# SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS
## `6989274f0a8d9d8df8a8139967a8a8d6`
`Ms. KAPTUR — 29 January 2008`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, the recent shocks to the global economy and 
U.S. financial institutions have revealed a major new source of 
investment in the U.S. economy called Sovereign Wealth Funds. These 
funds are the surplus savings of our trading competitors from foreign 
countries and have been key in bailing out major U.S. corporations like 
CitiGroup, Merrill Lynch, Blackstone, and so many others that have made 
terrible decisions and played with the people's money to abandon. Three 
billion dollars was invested by the Chinese, for example, just in the 
Blackstone Group.

Put into perspective, the Chinese Government, and I underline 
''government,'' is projected to have more than $3 trillion by 2010 that 
can be used to buy our stocks, bonds, real estate, and entire 
corporations. They're just getting started. Put into context, the 
Government of China will soon have enough investment monies to buy 51 
percent; that is absolute control of more than 40 percent of all the 
U.S.-based corporations whose stock is listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange. Think about that. The Government of China literally could buy 
half of all the stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange. And that's 
only China.

Many people in this Nation and in this Congress would strongly oppose 
having the United States Government buy control of two out of every 
five companies listed there. It would be called socialism. But how will 
we react if the Chinese Government buys those same companies, which is, 
my friends, underway?

Already we see China, Kuwait, Norway, and other nations buying major 
stakes in our banks and in investment houses, institutions that exert 
enormous political and economic influence in our Nation and world. Can 
we trust that those investments are purely for economic returns?

Secretary of the Treasury Paulson has repeatedly stated that this 
administration has no interest in knowing the details of such 
investments by sovereign wealth funds. The present panic in our banks 
and financial institutions to secure capital to offset their mortgage 
and credit card debacles may induce the heads of those corporations to 
take bailouts on virtually any terms. But we must be wiser. A head-in-
the-sand ostrich policy by the United States Government is simply not 
acceptable. Indeed, it is reckless, and it threatens national security.



At a minimum, Congress and the American people need to know the 
details of those transactions. Thus, foreign governments investing in 
U.S. companies through these funds should be required to make public 
their activities here, just as we require of public companies in the 
United States. Sunshine, as always, is good public policy. And if 
disclosure turns away investment, then the obvious question is what was 
the real goal of those funds.

Simultaneously, Congress needs to seriously consider whether limits 
should be placed on foreign investments in critical U.S. industries. 
Germany, Japan, Korea, and China all do. They understand that foreign 
economic control brings with it foreign political involvement in 
internal affairs.

In sum, sovereign wealth funds are a large and growing influence in 
the global economy and inside the United States. They have the 
potential to buy absolute control of a significant portion of the 
United States' economy, and that is under way. For the present, we need 
full disclosure about their U.S. holdings and intentions.

Simultaneously, we need to quickly and seriously think about what 
limits and controls the American people, through their government, 
should place on such investments.

Strangely, last week, President Bush signed an executive order 
transferring his power to the Treasury Department to authorize or 
reject such foreign takeovers of American companies. But officials from 
the Department of Defense, Department of Justice, and Department of 
Homeland Security objected to the order over the past few months saying 
it served business interests over national security interests. It 
allows Wall Street to gain an edge at the expense of national security. 
This Congress should not allow that. Economic and national security 
should go hand in hand. We cannot allow lax regulation of foreign 
involvement in our economy, and we cannot allow our indebtedness to 
foreign interests to continue to mount.

I would like to place two articles in the Record tonight, one from 
the Washington Times on January 24, entitled, ''Treasury Gets New CFIUS 
Authority.''

This is the entity at Treasury that reviews these deals. And it talks 
about how CFIUS is reviewing a proposed merger between the 
telecommunications equipment manufacturer 3Com and China's Huawei 
Technology Corporation, a company linked in the past to illegal 
international activities including violations of U.N. sanctions on Iraq 
and industrial espionage against the United States and Japanese firms. 
The Boston-based Bain Capital Partners would undermine U.S. national 
security, and this is one of the groups that's handling this.

Interestingly, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson recused himself from 
this particular review because his former company, Goldman Sachs, is a 
paid advisor to 3Com.

And also I wish to place in the Record and will end, Mr. Speaker, 
with a January 25 Wall Street Journal article, ''Lobbyists Smoothed the 
Way for a Spate of Foreign Deals,'' which goes into heavy analysis of 
the $37 billion of stakes in Wall Street financial institutions, the 
bedrock of our financial system, by selling these growing sovereign 
wealth funds.








 [From the Washington Times, Jan. 24, 2008]










 Treasury Gets New CFIUS Authority















(By Bill Gertz)




 President Bush yesterday signed a new executive order on 


 foreign investment that gives the Treasury secretary, instead 


 of the president, key power to authorize or reject purchases 


 of U.S. companies by foreign buyers.



 The president said the order bolsters recently passed 


 legislation by ensuring the Treasury-led Committee on Foreign 


 Investment in the United States (CFIUS) ''will review 


 carefully the national security concerns, if any, raised by 


 certain foreign investments into the United States.''



 At the same time, Mr. Bush said, the order recognizes 


 ''that our openness is vital to our prosperity and 


 security.''



 Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said his 


 agency is ''happy with the final order.''



 ''I think it creates a process that will achieve the dual 


 objectives of promoting investment but making sure we don't 


 compromise our national security,'' Mr. Chertoff said from 


 Switzerland.



 The legislation and order are a result of a bid in 2006 by 


 United Arabs Emirates-based Dubai Ports World to take over 


 operation of six U.S. ports.



 CFIUS approved the purchase but it later was canceled under 


 pressure from Congress over concerns that terrorists might 


 infiltrate U.S. ports through the company. Critics questioned 


 the deal because two of the September 11, 2001, hijackers 


 were UAE nationals, and the Persian Gulf state was used as a 


 financial base for al Qaeda.



 Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney, New York Democrat and a key 


 sponsor of the CFIUS-reform law, called the new order a 


 positive step.



 ''I remain confident that the Treasury Department intends 


 to follow the law as I wrote it, and have received assurances 


 that the department is already adhering to the new reforms,'' 


 she said.



 The order outlines more clearly the role of the director of 


 national intelligence (DNI) in providing CFIUS with threat 


 assessments posed by a foreign purchase and adds a 


 requirement for the DNI to assess ''potential consequences'' 


 of a foreign deal involving a U.S. company.



 However, a comparison of the new order with a draft order 


 from October--which was opposed by U.S. national security 


 officials--shows that CFIUS will continue to be dominated by 


 pro-business elements of the government.



 As late as last month, national security officials from the 


 Homeland Security, Justice and Defense departments expressed 


 concern the order was being co-opted by pro-business 


 officials at Treasury, Commerce and other trade agencies.



 A memorandum from the three national security agencies 


 obtained by The Washington Times called for tightening the 


 draft order's national security provisions to ''accurately 


 reflect pro-security interests.''



 The final order released by the White House yesterday 


 removed a provision that would have required the committee to 


 ''monitor the effects of foreign investment in the United 


 States.''



 One new authority in the order is a provision strengthening 


 so-called ''mitigation agreements'' between companies. The 


 agreements are designed to reduce the national security risks 


 as a condition for committee or presidential approval.



 The order states that companies involved in a U.S.-foreign 


 transaction ''in extraordinary circumstances'' can be 


 required to state they will comply with a mitigation 


 agreement.



 CFIUS currently is reviewing a proposed merger between the 


 telecommunications equipment manufacturer 3Com and China's 


 Huawei Technology, a company linked in the past to illegal 


 international activities, including violations of U.N. 


 sanctions on Iraq and industrial espionage against U.S. and 


 Japanese firms.



 U.S. officials said a review by the DNI's office determined 


 the Huawei purchase, through the Boston-based Bain Capital 


 Partners, would undermine U.S. national security.



 3Com manufacturers computer intrusion-detection equipment 


 used by the Pentagon, whose networks are a frequent target of 


 Chinese military computer attacks.



 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. recused himself 


 from CFIUS' 3Com-Huawei review because his former company, 


 Goldman Sachs, is a paid adviser to 3Com.