# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `698b1d6ae7c0cbbc591a28ddca4f8417`
`Ms. SUTTON — 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. Well, I thank the gentlewoman from New Hampshire. It is a 
sad state of affairs, but it goes back to the point that we have heard 
here tonight, and that is that unity in Iraq, really, at the end of the 
day, is going to be determined by the people of Iraq. We all know that 
our military has performed valiantly and selflessly and that they are 
true American heroes. But as you point out, it is not fair to keep them 
trapped in the middle of a civil war and refuse to acknowledge that all 
that has been discussed here tonight is going on. That is not a prudent 
plan. I think it is time. We have heard the call when we go home and 
talk to our constituents. It is time for a plan to responsibly 
redeploy. That is what the American people need from our President.

I will share just a few statistics with you that sort of buttress 
this need. We know that there was a great rollout when we had this so-
called surge introduced as a new way forward. But let me just shed some 
light on some of the results. In June, July and August of 2007, it 
marked the bloodiest summer so far U.S. troops in Iraq have had, with 
264 soldiers killed. U.S. casualties in Iraq are 56 percent higher this 
year than they were at this time in 2006. Since January of this year, 
we have lost 761 brave servicemen and women to the war in Iraq.

By the way, I should say that these statistics are as of September 
10. I have fear they have grown since then. As of September 10, 3,759 
U.S. troops have been killed and more than 27,770 have been wounded in 
Iraq since it began in March 2003. Think about that. Think about the 
cost in lives. Think about the cost in the casualties and the injuries 
that our soldiers are facing for the rest of their lives in many cases, 
the costs to them, which is unfathomable and enormous, and the cost to 
the American people as we do what we must do, and that is provide them 
with the health care and the resources they need and to fulfill the 
promise that we make to them when we send them into harm's way. We must 
take care of our veterans.

We also learn that, and you pointed this out, Representative Shea-
Porter, that in Iraq, opinions are also that they would like our troops 
to be responsibly deploying. Just to share some information from a new 
poll that was jointly conducted and released by ABC News, BBC News and 
Japan's NHK, 47 percent of Iraqis want American forces and their 
coalition allies to leave the country immediately. That is a 12 percent 
increase over March. Remember, our soldiers are there in that 
environment. The polls showed that every person interviewed in Baghdad 
and Anbar province, a Sunni-dominated area where Bush recently visited 
and cited progress, said the troop increase has worsened security. 
Seventy percent believe security has deteriorated in the areas where 
the U.S. surge troops were located. Between 67 and 70 percent say that 
the surge has hampered conditions for political dialogue, 
reconstruction and economic development. Fifty-seven percent of Iraqis 
say that attacking coalition forces is ''acceptable,'' more than three 
times higher than when polled in February of 2004. That is the 
environment we are keeping our troops in. The President's plan is to do 
so for the very foreseeable future.

It is time for a plan of responsible redeployment. Our military 
should not be asked to try to control a civil war, a sectarian civil 
war. We have heard all


the components of all the factions and all the dynamics that are going 
on in Iraq. Just think about our troops sitting in the middle of that 
and doing everything they are asked to do. We know from the report that 
Representative Shea-Porter referenced, and we know from the GAO 
reports. They confirm that our strategy is not working and that this 
conflict begs for a political solution, not a military one; though the 
United States can play a constructive role, and we will, and we have 
done so by providing, through high cost and blood and money, an 
opportunity to embrace a different way to the Iraqi people. We also 
know the toll that that country has, along the way, encountered.

Seventy-eight percent of Americans say they believe that the U.S. 
should withdraw some or all troops from Iraq. Sixty percent of 
Americans say the U.S. should set a timetable to withdraw our forces 
from Iraq and should ''stick to that timetable regardless of what is 
going on in Iraq.'' That is not because we don't care. That is because 
we are looking at the evidence, and we are trying to make the 
responsible decision for our troops, for the safety of this country and 
for domestic policy.

At this point, I would like to turn it over to Representative Shea-
Porter, and we will be wrapping up here in a few moments.