---
---

# None
## `698d51f5d8d38163241394950ec681b4`
`Mr. SKELTON — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to bring before the House the conference 
report on H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal 
year 2010. I especially want to thank my ranking member, my good 
friend, Buck McKeon, the gentleman from California, our partners in the 
Senate, Senator Carl Levin and Senator John McCain, and all the 
conferees from the Armed Services and 13 other committees who have made 
this conference report a reality.

Mr. McKeon, brand new as ranking member of our committee, hit the 
ground running and has done yeoman's work, and I particularly wish to 
single him out and express my appreciation for the work he has done to 
help bring this to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, this bill has a base of $550 billion for the United 
States military. This has $130 billion for the wars in Afghanistan and 
in Iraq, which total $680 billion.

Mr. Speaker, we are at war. This is a deadly serious moment in this 
body. This bill is critical for national security, and I am pleased to 
say this bill gets it right.

The conference report provides several major victories for our troops 
and their families, and the bill strikes a right balance between our 
focus on the immediate fights in Afghanistan and Iraq and the long-term 
needs of our military.

The vast majority of this bill has bipartisan support. The bill 
provides almost $20 billion combined for Army and Marine Corps reset 
and equipment shortfalls in the Guard and Reserves. It has $550 million 
for Army barracks and Guard and Reserve infrastructure. To boost 
readiness and reduce the strain on our forces, the bill increases the 
size of the military all across four services and authorizes an 
additional 30,000 Army troops in fiscal years 2011 and 2012.

This bill reflects our effort to recognize 2009 as the Year of the 
Military Family by providing a 3.4 percent pay raise for all 
servicemembers. The bill also extends the authority of the Defense 
Department to offer bonuses and incentive pay. It expands TRICARE 
health coverage. It prohibits fee increases on TRICARE inpatient care 
for a year, provides for $2.2 billion for family housing programs and 
improves the benefits available to wounded warriors.

To ensure our strategy in Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan is 
effective, this bill requires the President to assess U.S. efforts and 
report on the progress. The bill authorizes funds to train and equip 
the Afghan National Security Forces and authorize the Pakistan 
Counterinsurgency Fund. The bill improves accountability and oversight 
of U.S. assistance. The bill also requires the Secretary of Defense to 
submit a report on the responsible redeployment of U.S. forces out of 
Iraq.

On acquisition reform, the conference report supports the plan to 
increase the size of the acquisition workforce and reduce reliance on 
contractors for acquisition functions.

It eliminates waste, fraud, and abuse through better contract 
oversight. The bill also repeals the National Security


Personnel System, returning employees to the general schedule over 2 
years while providing additional flexibility for hiring and personnel 
management.

The conference agreement prohibits the release of Guantanamo Bay 
detainees into the United States, its territories and possessions, and 
restricts detainee transfers until after the President has submitted a 
plan to Congress.

The conference report revises the Military Commissions Act to make 
military commissions fair and effective and ensure that convictions 
stick.

Let me briefly address two difficult aspects of the conference 
report.

First, I am disappointed, and so very disappointed, that we were not 
able to retain the House's provision implementing the President's 
proposal on concurrent receipt for disabled military retirees. The 
Armed Services Committee fought hard with the assistance of our 
leadership and many other committees to pay for that proposal. The 
Senate's budget rules, however, would not support a solution. And I 
urge the President to work with us in a way to pay for this, which will 
meet the budgetary rules of both the House and the Senate.

Finally, regarding the Hate Crimes Prevention Act, I have said 
several times that I would have preferred it to have been enacted as a 
stand-alone bill, not on this Defense bill. But it's important to note 
that the conferees included important sentencing guidelines for crimes 
against military servicemembers and added protections for the first 
amendment rights of preachers and ministers to that bill.

I might add, Mr. Speaker, that the Senate passed its version of the 
bill with the hate crimes provision by a vote of 87-7, which is a 
strong bipartisan vote in the United States Senate.

Whatever one's position on hate crimes, I believe that the enormous 
good done in this legislation merits its support by every Member of the 
House.

Mr. Speaker, we are at war. We should support the troops. We should 
support their families. We should make sure that they have the finest 
equipment and training possible. That's what this bill does. This bill 
will support our troops in the field and their families at home and 
meet our Nation's immediate military requirements and preserve the 
ability to deter and respond to future threats.

I urge the House to vote for this conference report and move it to 
the President's desk as soon as possible.

I reserve the balance of my time.