---
---

# REMEMBERING SENATOR JESSE HELMS
## `6994440daf93028a292df0c091cd8f7e`
`Mr. ENSIGN — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, President William McKinley once said, 
''That's all a man can hope for during his lifetime--to set an 
example--and when he is dead, to be an inspiration for history.''

Of all his accomplishments during his lifetime, the example that 
Senator Jesse Helms set for treating others rises above everything 
else. During my first term in the Senate, I had the privilege of 
traveling to Mexico as part of a congressional delegation with Jesse 
Helms. I saw his kindness and sincerity in the way he treated everyone, 
regardless of position. The foreign dignitaries received the same 
respect and consideration as staff. Not enough Senators treat members 
of their staff like members of their family, but Jesse Helms did. And 
that gentleness extended to all who came into contact with him.

The kindness with which he touched so many lives stands in stark 
contrast to the harsh and tough image which many had of Jesse Helms. 
Seen as rough and hard-hitting, a more fitting description of Jesse 
Helms is that he was a steadfast believer in the principles of America. 
Jesse Helms was the voice, sometimes the lone voice, of a centuries' 
old vision of a sovereign United States committed to freedom, a strong 
national defense, and free enterprise. He was willing and able to stop 
business in the Senate when the strength of our Nation was threatened.

But to those whose lives were personally touched by Jesse Helms, 
progress was never paused. Instead, Jesse Helms was a conduit of 
democracy and opportunity. Generations of Cubans, Taiwanese, Iraqis, 
and Africans will always remember the support that a Senator from North 
Carolina dedicated to their causes.

And countless North Carolinians will remember the meaningful impact 
that Jesse Helms had on their lives as their advocate to a sometimes 
unyielding government bureaucracy. One constituent from Raleigh noted 
her Senator's efforts on behalf of her aging parents. She remembered 
her mother saying if there was a problem that couldn't be resolved, 
''Call Jesse Helms. He won't stop until he gets it solved.''

His commitment to his constituents speaks volumes about Jesse Helms's 
passion for his job and the people who elected him. He always 
remembered who he represented and why. And he always remembered that we 
ensure the strength of our Nation by inspiring young people to continue 
the work of generations of patriots. He never turned away young men and 
women looking for advice and often engaged them in dialogue. Time and 
again he told them to stand up for their principles. And then he showed 
them by example.

Very few Americans in our Nation's history have risen to the level of 
accomplishment and reverence as Jesse Helms. During three decades in 
the Senate, he set an example for all Americans as he always stood by 
his principles and extended kindness to friend and foe. Now he is an 
inspiration for history.
