---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `6996d72a8ab717f174d53f8cfd4e0e10`
`Mr. McCAIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I think we ought to understand what this 
amendment is all about. In the view of the Secretary of Defense, he 
says:




 As drafted, the amendment would dramatically limit the 


 Nation's ability to respond to other national security needs 


 while we remain engaged in Iraq or Afghanistan.


He goes on to say:




 The amendment would impose upon the President an 


 unacceptable choice between accelerating the rate of drawdown 


 significantly beyond what General Petraeus has recommended, 


 which he and other senior military commanders believe would 


 not be prudent, and would put at real risk the gains we have 


 made on the ground in Iraq over the past few months, or to 


 resort to force management options that would further damage 


 the force and its effectiveness in the field.


That is what this amendment is about. Nowhere in the Constitution 
does it say the President of the United States is deprived of the 
authority to decide when and where to send troops in a time of war. 
Nowhere. Nowhere in the history of this country have such restrictions 
been imposed or privileges assumed by the Congress of the United 
States. We have one Commander in Chief, and one only. To somehow assume 
that we would begin with Congress's 535 commanders in chief, I think, 
would reduce our ability to ever fight another war effectively.

Let me sum up by saying that clearly the message I am getting from 
the troops in the field is not that the war is lost, as the majority 
leader in the Senate stated last April. We are succeeding and we are 
winning. And with the enactment of this amendment, we will choose to 
lose. This is setting a formula for surrender, not for victory.

I am hearing from the troops in the field three words, three words: 
Let us win. They have sacrificed a great deal, as the majority leader 
described very dramatically. Now give them a chance to win. That is 
what they want. They do not want that sacrifice to be in vain.

This amendment would do exactly what the Secretary of Defense says, 
as well as other interested observers. I urge my colleagues to reject 
this amendment. Allow this new strategy and for this great general, 
whom the American people had a great opportunity to see last week as he 
spoke to the Congress and the American people. Reject this amendment 
and let us win.