---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `699d15fc2e5d4f92aa4ff3b3ffb396cf`
`Mr. REID — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, it is also very interesting--and I have 
the greatest respect for my friend from Virginia and my friend from 
Nebraska--but with all due respect to them, how could they vote against 
a motion to proceed? How could they vote against a motion to proceed 
saying let the two leaders work this out? What more could we give them 
than what they asked for last week? But now they want to throw in the 
Gregg amendment with a 60-vote margin.

Earlier today, the minority leader said: This vote is ''about getting 
fair treatment for the minority here in the Senate.'' He was half 
right. This vote is about fairness but has little to do with being fair 
to the minority. The vote is about being fair to 132,000 troops already 
in Iraq by making sure they have the strategy they need to complete 
their mission so they can come home.

This vote is about being fair to the 48,000 American men and women 
who would be sent to Iraq should President Bush be permitted to 
escalate this war.

This vote is about being fair to the bipartisan majority of Senators 
who seek to voice their opposition to the President's plan to escalate 
the war.

This vote is about being fair to the American people and the millions 
of voters who chose a new direction last November.

As Senators, we owe it to our troops and our people to have a real 
debate about the way forward in Iraq. For 4 years, this body, under the 
control of the Republicans, sat silent on the most pressing issue 
facing our country--Iraq. As thousands of our soldiers were killed and 
tens of thousands wounded, the Senate, directed by the Republicans, sat 
silent, no debate on Iraq. As hundreds of billions of dollars were 
spent, the Senate sat silent. Republicans were in charge--no debate. 
They said no.

As Iraq fell into chaos and civil war, it became increasingly clear 
that the President's plan was flawed and failing. The Senate sat 
silent. The Republicans who were in control of the Senate said: No, no 
debate on Iraq.

As Senators and Americans, we cannot permit the silence to continue. 
This Democratic majority will not allow it to continue.

The administration's failures have dug us into a deep hole in Iraq--
we all know that--and we have an obligation to find a way out. Our 
troops, most of all, need our help. They need a policy that is as 
worthy as their heroic sacrifice. They need a legislative branch that 
will finally exercise its constitutional responsibilities.

Madam President, I say to my friend from Connecticut, I wasn't able 
to hear all of his speech, but I did hear this that caused me to take 
note: He said words to the effect: What are the Shia politicians going 
to think? What are the Sunni politicians going to think if, in fact, 
Warner passed? I wonder what the Sunni politicians thought, and I 
wonder what the Shia politicians thought when the Iraqi Prime Minister, 
duly elected, told the President of the United States that he wanted 
American troops out of Baghdad. So let's not direct this to Senator 
Warner.

A ''no'' vote on the motion to proceed is a green light to George 
Bush to continue down the same failed course of almost 4 years.

A ''no'' vote is an endorsement of escalation, sending 48,000 more 
troops to Iraq and spending at least an extra $27 billion--$27 billion 
extra--when this war has already cost almost a half a trillion dollars.


A ''no'' vote is a vote in support of this President continuing the 
same policy of failure in Iraq.

We have been told by our intelligence experts that the war is not 
going to be won by the military; it is only going to be won 
politically. That is what the


Iraq Study Group said. That is what all people say, with rare 
exception. Those are the people holding hands with the President.

We must heed the results of the November elections and the wishes of 
the American people. We must change course, and this change starts with 
this next vote.

This side--Democrats--have offered the minority everything they have 
asked for. Remember: Vote on Warner, vote on McCain; you want a simple 
majority; you want a supermajority; we will go along with that. We have 
been fair to them. Now the Senate must be fair to our troops, their 
families, and the American people. We must proceed with a debate about 
Iraq and send a clear message to President Bush that escalation is not 
the answer.

Some say let the leaders work it out. Part of this stall has been a 
stall for obvious reasons. If not tonight, tomorrow? I must file a 
motion to invoke cloture on the continuing resolution because the 
Republicans said they are going to filibuster it. I have gotten letters 
to that effect. We should have been debating the Warner, McCain 
resolutions today, but they have not allowed us. They wouldn't allow us 
to proceed on this matter.

I am telling everyone within the sound of my voice, a decision will 
have to be made whether to go further than tonight, but the time is 
very tenuous--very tenuous. If they stop us from going forward on this 
debate, this does not end the debate on Iraq. It may end the debate for 
a few days or a few weeks, but, remember, we have the 9/11 Commission 
recommendations coming and that is open to amendment and I can 
guarantee everybody there will be Iraq amendments involved in that 
debate.

The supplemental bill is coming. This is to fund the war in Iraq 
basically more than $100 billion. I think there will probably very 
likely be a number of amendments dealing with Iraq.

They can run, but they can't hide. We are going to debate Iraq, and 
they may have gotten all their folks to vote against the motion to 
proceed, they may stop us temporarily from debating the escalation, but 
they are not going to stop us from debating Iraq.

We have lost 3,100 soldiers, sailors, and marines. They are dead, 
Madam President. We don't know the exact number of how many have been 
wounded--24,000, 25,000.

We are not going to allow the situation in Iraq to continue. It is 
wrong. There can be no military solution. The President has been told 
that. I think it speaks volumes when he meets with the Iraqi Prime 
Minister who is elected, and the Iraqi Prime Minister says: Mr. 
President of the United States, get all American soldiers out of 
Baghdad.

That's what he said. I think it speaks volumes when military 
commanders say that it is not the way to go. We know what Casey said. 
His tune has changed a little bit since he was relieved of duty over 
there.

The families of the 3,100 soldiers who have been killed, the families 
of the 24,000, 25,000 who have been wounded demand we go forward with 
this debate.

We are going to start voting momentarily, and remember what the vote 
is. The vote is whether we can proceed to debate the escalation of the 
war in Iraq. And the Republicans have told everybody they are all going 
to vote no. If they think this can pop up real easily again, I think 
they may have another thing coming.

I repeat, the Republicans left town and left the Government without 
adequate resources to go ahead and complete funding of the Federal 
Government for this year. We have to take up the work they did not 
complete. They funded the Government until February 15, and now it is 
up to us to make sure the Government continues to run.

If they want to pull a Newt Gingrich and close down the Government, 
that is their responsibility. But I believe we should move forward and 
make sure the Government is funded, and there is not a lot of time for 
Iraq. That is a sad commentary on the situation because we lost days as 
a result of these parliamentary delays.

I ask unanimous consent that if we get to third reading of S. 470 it 
then be turned into a concurrent resolution and passage occur on the 
concurrent resolution and not S. 470. Before hearing how anybody feels 
about this, I said last week that we would be happy to consider this 
bill as a resolution. Everybody heard me say that. The American people 
heard me say that. So anybody who tries to hide under a procedural vote 
because this is a bill and not a resolution is not being fair because 
simply I have stated--and I know that everyone in this Chamber heard me 
say this, and I have said it many times--I ask unanimous consent that 
if we get to third reading of S. 470, that it be turned into a 
concurrent resolution and that passage occur on the concurrent 
resolution and not S. 470.

I add another unanimous consent request to this. I am willing to 
change it to a concurrent resolution right now, as I was willing to do 
last week.