# None
## `69b174aee9f3bb0b821d3a8f0b0265e3`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida â€” 1 August 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong 
support of the CHAMP Act. The CHAMP Act is another achievement that the 
Democratic Congress can point to that is fulfilling the needs of the 
American people.

In my home State of Florida, KidCare--Florida's CHIP program--covered 
303,595 children in 2006, but 718,603 children remain uninsured. The 
CHAMP Act could provide Florida with approximately $2.54 billion in new 
federal funding and an opportunity to get more children covered. States 
like Florida need to step up to the plate and fund their CHIP program 
to the fullest extent.

The CHAMP Act would provide continued health insurance to six million 
children already covered and add an additional five million children 
who currently lack health insurance nationwide. That alone should be 
enough to vote for this bill, but the Republicans continue to play 
political games.

Fortunately, the Republicans have no ground to stand on this bill and 
they know it. They are trapped in a corner crying about tax increases 
instead of supporting health care for five million children. Let me 
tell you, this is why your party is no longer in control--you've 
stopped listening to the people.

Opponents also say this is a fiscally irresponsible bill. Let me say 
that your party doesn't understand fiscal responsibility. The 
Republican party has run up the largest deficits in history and they 
call this bill fiscally irresponsible. We have spent over $600 billion 
on the President's war in Iraq and we can't spend less than $3.50 a day 
to cover a child through CHIP. Seventy-six percent of Americans believe 
that access to health insurance is more important than cutting taxes.

This bill will be one of the most important healthcare issues this 
Congress will deal with and the American public will know who voted for 
it. The number of uninsured children in the country is an 
embarrassment. The Democrats are making the American public a priority 
again and I encourage all of my colleagues to support this bill and 
vote for the children.