---
---

# IRANIAN REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS
## `69b45e3f6627ca86da7fcd8bd483227f`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 24 September 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise to speak on amendment No. 3017 
which Senator Kyl of Arizona and I have offered. This amendment would 
designate the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist 
organization and thereby subject this deadly, nefarious group to a 
series of economic and diplomatic sanctions that Senator Kyl and I 
think will be felt in Iran and that this group, because of its


dangerous and destabilizing work throughout Iraq and the Middle East, 
deserves.

This is obviously a week in which the leader of Iran, President 
Ahmadi-Nejad, is in the United States of America. A great debate rages 
about what is the appropriate way to greet him? What sanctions, what 
platforms should be given to him? What sanctions should be discussed?

Personally, I feel it was a terrible mistake for Columbia University 
to invite him to speak because he comes literally with blood on his 
hands--the blood of American soldiers who are being killed today in 
Iraq by Iraqi extremists trained by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard 
Corps, the Quds Force, in Iran at bases surrounding Tehran.

But I offer this amendment in this spirit: If we are looking for a 
way to meaningfully respond to the presence of Ahmadi-Nejad in the 
United States, I cannot think of anything better than adopting this 
resolution which documents exactly the campaign of death and murder of 
Americans and others throughout the Middle East that it is carrying 
out.

Regardless of where any individual Member of this Chamber stands on 
the war in Iraq and what the best way forward on the war in Iraq is, 
this matter of Iran's deadly role in Iraq and throughout the Middle 
East should draw us all together. This is a matter on which we are not 
for or against the war in Iraq, we are not Democrats or Republicans, we 
are Americans standing based of the evidence against a force, the 
Iranian Republican Guard Corps, the Quds Force, that has blood on its 
hands, and the blood is American blood.

General Petraeus, 2 weeks ago, testified before Congress, and he 
could not have been clearer about the threat we face from Iran. In his 
words:




 It is increasingly apparent to both coalition and Iraqi 


 leaders that Iran, through the use of the Iranian Republican 


 Guard Corps Quds Force, seeks to turn the Shi'a militia 


 extremists into a Hezbollah-like force to serve its interests 


 and fight a proxy war against the Iraqi state and coalition 


 forces.


General Petraeus's testimony is the latest in a growing dossier of 
evidence about Iranian terrorism--call it what it is. Ahmadi-Nejad is 
maybe called President; he is the terrorist dictator who, with a small 
group around him, has seized control of a great Nation, Iran--a growing 
dossier of evidence about Iranian terrorism in Iraq and throughout the 
region that we in this Chamber have received from our American military 
commanders on the ground in Iraq, from our top diplomats there, and 
from our own intelligence community.

This is not opinion; this is fact. Specifically, we have received 
detailed information in recent months about how operatives from the 
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps have been training--have been 
training--arming, funding, and even directing extremists inside Iraq. 
As Ambassador Crocker testified:




 While claiming to support Iraq in its transition, Iran has 


 actively undermined it by providing lethal capabilities to 


 the enemies of the Iraqi state.


The IRGC, Quds Force, is also importing terrorists from the Lebanese 
Hezbollah to help build its extremist proxies in Iraq. We know this 
because coalition forces, American forces, have captured one of the 
Hezbollah leaders inside Iraq and recovered documents that detail the 
relationship between the Iranian regime and the extremist groups they 
are sponsoring who are killing Americans.

General Petraeus said it when he was here:




 This is not intelligence. This is evidence.


We also know Iran has been using its territory to train and organize 
these extremists, as I said. What is the source of that? The U.S. 
military spokesperson in Iraq, BG Kevin Bergner, U.S. Army. He has said 
groups of up to 60 Iraqi militants at a time have been taken to three 
camps near Tehran, where they received instruction in the use of 
mortars, rockets, improvised explosives, and other deadly tools of 
guerrilla warfare that they then use against our troops in Iraq.

General Bergner also reported this summer the U.S. military has 
concluded that ''the senior leadership'' in Iran is aware of the 
activities of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps in sponsoring 
attacks against our soldiers in Iraq, and that, in his words, it is 
''hard to imagine'' that the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali 
Khamenei, does not know about them.

The consequences of this Iranian terrorism in Iraq have been immense 
and terrible for our men and women in uniform and for their families 
and friends at home. According to LTG Ray Odierno, the deputy commander 
of our forces in Iraq, Iranian-supplied weapons were responsible for a 
full one-third of American combat deaths this July. That builds on a 
similar record in preceding months. Let me repeat that. Up to a third 
of the deaths of American soldiers in Iraq in July were caused by 
sophisticated explosive devices used by people trained in Iran, with 
those devices supplied by Iran. This means the Iranians and their 
agents are killing our troops. Why are they doing it? Because they want 
us to retreat from Iraq.

The Iranians understand--sometimes, it seems, better than a lot of 
Americans do--that if American power collapses in Iraq, if we retreat 
and abandon our allies and the hopes we share with them for a better 
future in Iraq and throughout the Middle East, our position throughout 
the region will become much weaker and Iran's position will become much 
stronger.

Iranian aggression in Iraq fits squarely into a larger pattern of 
regional aggression, leading, they hope, to regional domination.


Tehran is also training, funding, and equipping radical groups that 
are responsible for the deaths of Lebanese, Palestinians, Afghanis, and 
Israelis. They are attempting to destabilize a series of moderate 
regimes in the Arab world.

Last week, Admiral Fallon, the commander of our Central Command, said 
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps is supplying anticoalition forces 
with the same sophisticated explosive devices it is giving to 
extremists in Iraq. In Admiral Fallon's words:




 There is no doubt . . . that agents from Iran are involved 


 in aiding the insurgency.


The fact is, it is Iraq that today is the central front of Iran's 
efforts to become the hegemonic power in the Middle East. The Iranian 
regime knows Iraq has become the central front in our war with Islamist 
terrorism. It is where they believe they can begin the process of 
pushing us out of the region and seizing control. That is why I do not 
believe a person can be serious about responding to the threat of Iran 
while calling for our precipitous withdrawal from Iraq.

Ahmadi-Nejad, a few weeks ago, said:




 The political power of the occupiers is collapsing rapidly.


By that he means us.




 Soon we will see a huge power vacuum in the region. . . .We 


 are prepared to fill that gap.


Asked about that statement, our own Ambassador Crocker said:




 Ahmadinejad means what he says, and is already trying to 


 implement it, to the best of his ability.


That is a quote from our Ambassador in Baghdad.

It is vital to the national security interests of the United States 
that the Iranian Government not be allowed to prevail in its war 
against us and the Iraqi people's hopes for a better future. The 
amendment Senator Kyl and I and others are offering, we believe, is an 
important component of our response to this threat.

First, it will send a clear message both to the fanatical regime in 
Tehran--not, I believe, representative of the feelings and hopes of the 
Iranian people--and it will send a clear message to our allies in the 
region that the United States will not stand idly by and allow Iranian-
backed terrorists to kill hundreds of American soldiers. We will not 
stand idly by and allow Iran, through its proxies and then directly, to 
dominate Iraq.

This amendment acknowledges what our military commanders and top 
diplomats are telling us, which is that regardless of what we might 
desire in Washington, the Government in Tehran has made a decision, and 
they are carrying it out--to wage a proxy war against the United States 
in Iraq and against our allies in the Arab world and Israel throughout 
the region. We must respond.

Our amendment states it should be the policy of the United States to 
stop the violent activities and the destabilizing influence inside Iraq 
of the


Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as its foreign 
facilitators such as Lebanese Hezbollah and the indigenous Iraqi 
extremists.

Our amendment recognizes that thwarting Iran's campaign of terror 
must be among the crucial considerations for any plan for the 
transition and drawdown of our forces in Iraq. As General Petraeus 
warned us in his testimony, the threat of Iran may, in the long run, 
prove an even greater danger to the stability of Iraq--their hopes for 
political reconciliation and self-government--than al-Qaida. We cannot 
ignore Iran.

For that reason, the amendment Senator Kyl and I are offering calls 
on the State Department to designate the Iranian Revolutionary Guard 
Corps as a foreign terrorist organization and place the IRGC on the 
list of Specially Designated Global Terrorists. This is no small 
organization. I have seen estimates to say it is as large as 150,000 or 
180,000. They have ground troops. They have air capability. They even 
have naval assets. They have businesses which are doing business with 
other businesses throughout the region and the world.

This is the organization that the evidence, presented to us by the 
American military intelligence communities, tells us is responsible for 
the murder of American soldiers in Iraq.

They are launching terrorist attacks through their agents against our 
troops; therefore, they should be treated as terrorists. They must 
begin to suffer the economic and diplomatic punishments that come with 
being designated as a foreign terrorist organization.

Of course, everyone in this Chamber would prefer that we find a way 
to convince the Iranian regime to stop these attacks against our 
soldiers, Iraqi soldiers, and civilians through negotiation, but 
reality requires that we recognize that we have tried to use the tools 
of diplomacy with Iran, Mahmud Ahmadi-Nejad's government, and it has 
produced nothing.

Since May, Ambassador Crocker, our Ambassador, has met three times 
with his Iranian counterparts in Baghdad--the highest level official 
meetings between American and Iranian representatives in decades--and 
what have these talks produced? These talks, at which our Ambassador 
has presented the Iranians with hard evidence that we know the IRGC, 
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, is training Iraqi extremists who 
are coming back into Iraq and killing American soldiers--what has that 
evidence produced? Nothing. Nothing at all. In fact, there is some 
evidence that the Iranian activity is growing.

In Ambassador Crocker's own words as he testified before Congress:




 I laid out the concerns we have over Iranian activity that 


 was damaging to Iraq's security, but found no readiness on 


 the Iranian side at all to engage seriously on these issues. 


 The impression I came away with after a couple of rounds is 


 that the Iranians were interested simply in the appearance of 


 discussions, of being seen to be at the table with the U.S. 


 as an arbiter of Iraq's present and future, rather than 


 actually doing serious business. Right now--


Ambassador Crocker says--



 I haven't seen any signs of earnestness or seriousness on the 


 Iranian side.


Far from convincing the Iranian regime to stop its proxy attacks on 
Iraqi soldiers, the evidence is that these attacks have escalated--
increased--over the last month. According to the most recent National 
Intelligence Estimate:




 Iran has been intensifying aspects of its lethal support--
