---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `69c3f945098e89d47e13bc9d1dccbc08`
`Mr. ROSS — 30 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, this evening, as most Tuesday evenings, I rise 
on behalf of the 47-member-strong, fiscally conservative Democratic 
Blue Dog Coalition.

As I sat here, Mr. Speaker, thinking about what I wanted to discuss 
in this next hour with some of my Blue Dog colleagues, I couldn't help 
but listen to some of the rhetoric that we've heard over the past hour. 
You know, for 6 years, for 6 years the Republicans controlled the White 
House, the House and the Senate. And what did they give us? They gave 
us tax cut after tax cut for folks earning over $400,000 a year.

And this new Democratic majority, what has the Democrats given you? 
We are giving you health care for children of working parents. Let me 
repeat that. This is health care for the children of working parents. 
This is not for children whose parents are on welfare. They're already 
covered under a program known as Medicaid, which is health insurance 
for the poor, the disabled and the elderly.

Some 10 million children in America will go to bed tonight without 
health insurance, without the ability to go to the doctor when they get 
sick. And who are they? They're the children of parents who are trying 
to do the right thing and stay off welfare, but they're working the 
jobs with no benefits.

While the Republicans were hiding earmarks, the Democrats in this new 
majority have been passing legislation that says if you're a Member of 
Congress and if you break the law, you lose your pension, period. And 
while the Republicans have been on an agenda that benefits those 
earning over $400,000 a year, the Democrats in this new majority have 
raised the Federal minimum wage for the first time in 10 years.

If we're serious about moving people from welfare to work, we've got 
to pay them more than $10,712 a year, which is what the previous 
minimum wage represented if you worked 40 hours a week, 52 weeks a 
year, never get sick, and never take a single day off for vacation.

Now, they said that the Democrats are wanting to provide health 
insurance for children of working parents. We plead guilty to that, and 
after all, if the working families have been benefiting from some of 
these tax cuts that primarily benefited those earning over $400,000 a 
year for the past 6 years, our working families might not need the 
help, but they do because under the past 6 years of a Republican White 
House, House and Senate, quite frankly, they haven't got it.

It's time, Mr. Speaker, to tone down the political rhetoric and look 
at the facts, and as a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, I can tell you 
what we're all about. We're about fiscal discipline and accountability. 
We're about putting an end to the partisan bickering. We don't care if 
it's a Democrat or Republican idea. We ask ourselves, is it a 
commonsense idea and does it make sense for the people that send us 
here to be their voice?

Today, the U.S. national debt is $9,063,547,746,613. If you divide 
that enormous number by every man, woman and child in America, 
including the children being born today, every one of us, our share of 
the national debt, $29,888. That's what those of us in the Blue Dog 
Coalition refer to as the debt tax, D-E-B-T, which is one tax that 
cannot be cut, cannot go away until we get our Nation's fiscal house in 
order.

Tonight, we're going to be talking about the debt, the deficit, and 
as members of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, 
we're going to be talking about ways to put an end to this reckless 
spending.

If you ask 100 people on the street what they think about this Iraq 
war policy, you will get about 100 different answers, but one of the 
things that unites us as Blue Dogs is we believe that the money that 
this administration asks for for Iraq should be accounted for. We 
believe that if this President is going to continue to spend, and this 
is year 5, if this President is going to continue to spend $16 million 
an hour, $16 million every 60 minutes going to Iraq, and if this 
President's going to continue down that path, then we believe we're not 
here tonight to debate the merits of $16 million an hour going to Iraq, 
but we're here tonight to hold this administration accountable for how 
that money is being spent and to ensure that it's being spent not on 
projects for Iraq but providing the protection and the state-of-the-art 
equipment that our brave and honorable men and women in uniform not 
only need but deserve.

This war has affected all of us. My first cousin was in Iraq when his 
wife gave birth to their first child. He's now back for a second time, 
and he will be there when she gives birth to their third child. My 
family's not any different from many families across America.

Many families have made the sacrifice, some of them the ultimate 
sacrifice, in support of their loved ones who have gone and simply done 
what they've been asked to do. And Mr. Speaker, if we're going to send 
our men and women in uniform to Iraq, we need to make sure some of this 
money is being spent on them, and we need to make sure that we're 
taking care of them.

At this time, one of the things that the Blue Dog Coalition has done 
is


we've written legislation known as H. Res. 97 that was drafted by 
members of the Blue Dog Coalition to ensure accountability for how the 
money is being spent in Iraq. At this time, I would call on one of the 
cochairs, the cochair for policy for the Blue Dog Coalition, and that 
is my dear friend, the cochair for policy for the fiscally conservative 
Blue Dogs, and this is Dennis Moore of Kansas who's going to talk more 
to us this evening about H. Res. 97, which simply is called, Providing 
for Operation Iraqi Freedom Cost Accountability, and I thank 
Congressman Moore for being a part of this Special Order this evening.