# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST
## `69cf7f7e8f7bd7fab98edc8bba3b86ad`
`Mr. REID â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, the Presiding Officer is a new Member of 
this body, but she should have seen when the Republicans were in the 
majority. We didn't have amendments. They filled every tree. I will 
also say, it speaks volumes here today--volumes. There is not a single 
person on the other side of the aisle who has come to the floor and 
supported the troop surge of President Bush--not a single person. I 
wonder if President Bush is aware that not a single Republican Senator 
has come to the floor and said: I support President Bush sending 48,000 
more troops to Iraq. That speaks volumes.

I will also say this, Madam President: Senator Boxer, a couple rows 
back, just a few minutes ago, talked about one short snapshot of one 
day from the Los Angeles Times: Scores of people being murdered and 
killed and mutilated; a little girl leaving school with blood-drenched 
steps over which she was walking. One could see the red in the 
photograph, and Senator Boxer was one, two, three rows back. We could 
all see that.

Not a single person has come to the floor to support the surge, but 
that is what is dictating what we vote on today. It is not the majority 
leader. We, for the American people, need to have this debate.

Also, I certainly care a lot about the Senator from New Hampshire--
and he knows that is true--but I have to smile. What has he done the 
first few weeks of this legislative session? He has brought to the 
Senate floor during the debate on ethics, lobbying reform, and earmark 
reform the line-item veto, and then he brought it forth again on 
minimum wage. And now to stop a debate on the escalation of the war in 
Iraq, he now comes up with this other diversionary tactic. He is a 
wonderful man, a gentleman, but, Madam President, do you know what he 
kind of reminds me of this first few weeks of this legislative session? 
Somebody who comes into a basketball game, not to score points, just to 
kind of rough people up, just to kind of get the game going in a 
different direction.

The game we have going today has nothing to do with supporting the 
troops. We support the troops. Every speech that a Democrat has given 
in the last 4 years has talked about how much we support the troops. In 
fact, we were the first to raise the issue. We were the first to raise 
the issue about a lack of body armor. We raised that first. We support 
the troops. We have done that not only with our mouths but with the way 
we voted.

The debate in the Senate should be on the resolution submitted by the 
Senator from Arizona, which they have obviously dropped--the resolution 
from the Senator from Arizona and Senator Lieberman from Connecticut. 
They threw that out in an effort to go for this diversion.

So why don't we see how the minority feels about voting on the 
President's surge of $30 billion and 48,000 troops? That is what this 
debate is about.