---
---

# GULF COAST HURRICANE HOUSING RECOVERY ACT OF 2007
## `69d33ca3260e98ab66838531f166cb6b`
`Mr. BACA — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. BACA. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank Chairman Frank and Chairwoman 
Waters for their hard work and dedication in helping the thousands of 
victims that have been left homeless by the hurricane on the gulf 
coast. Thank you for caring and wanting to take action.

I rise in support of the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act, 
H.R. 1227. Eighteen months have passed since Katrina hit, yet thousands 
are still struggling to get back on their feet. This bill is about the 
thousands of people struggling to get back on their feet.

Last year, the TriCaucus Chairs, Grace Napolitano, Mike Honda and Mel 
Watt, met in Houston to cohost a townhall meeting on Katrina, where 
they listened to Katrina victims who had been displaced to Houston. 
Since then, we have learned that 99,000 families are still living in 
trailers, including 65,000 in Louisiana, 31,000 in Mississippi, and 
thousands more individuals are still living with relatives in States 
throughout the Nation.

Families, workers and businesses can't return to the gulf area until 
they have homes to return to. We need to rebuild. Their lives are being 
impacted, and it is affecting their ability to improve their quality of 
life. This is their home. This is their castle. We need to rebuild.

The administration's slow response has been a major factor in the 
pace of recovery. The President didn't even mention Katrina in his 2007 
State of the Union Address. Billions of dollars are going to rebuild 
Iraq, while American families are waiting for assistance right here at 
home in America. Shame.

Enough is enough. We can't afford to leave these families behind. I 
urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1227.