---
---

# ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
## `69dba91cc993bc9173f43be5b6519377`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 6 June 2008`

---

 Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, last month, I was contacted by SFC 
John Cone and CPT David Schwartz, both forward deployed in Iraq at 
Tactical Psychological Operations headquarters. For each of these 
soldiers, this is their second deployment in support of the global war 
on terror. While both of these soldiers are dedicated and decorated 
servicemembers as well as public servants serving as civilian law 
enforcement officers at home, I want to honor in the Record of the 
Senate today their devoted and compassionate spouses back home.

Prior to their deployment in January 2008 with the 310th Tactical 
Psychological Operations Company, Detachment 1620 at Fort Gillem, their 
spouses, Kelly Cone and Lisa Schwartz, established a family readiness 
group to help support the deployed soldiers and their families back 
home. While Mrs. Cone and Mrs. Schwartz are both caring and devoted 
mothers at home with many other responsibilities, they took it upon 
themselves to create a Web page for their Family Readiness Group and 
began conducting regular information meetings and monthly ''coffee 
chat'' sessions with the families and spouses of the deployed soldiers.

These sessions not only kept the families inspired but also kept them 
informed regarding the details surrounding the deployment of their 
loved ones. Attendance has been high and the families receptive, each 
of the members providing input and assistance as needed. I was simply 
amazed to learn of all of their efforts and accomplishments in keeping 
the information channels and support networks fully functioning. For 
example, the Family Readiness Group recently mobilized to assist one of 
its members, a young woman who had gone into labor, and helped 
coordinate the redeployment of her husband from Iraq.

These two determined spouses did not stop with their Family Readiness 
Group efforts alone and have set about to aid in the establishment of a 
Family Readiness Group for the remainder of the 310th Company, set to 
deploy in the summer of 2009. They will host a Family Day in August to 
bring the new and old members together.

Mrs. Cone and Mrs. Schwartz serve as shining examples of today's Army 
spouses. Today's military spouses understand and seek to support their 
loved ones who have been called up and deployed into harm's way. It is 
my hope that the efforts of Kelly Cone and Lisa Schwartz will serve as 
a model for other families with deployed loved ones. It gives me a 
great deal of pleasure and it is a privilege to recognize on the Senate 
floor these dedicated and loving spouses for their outstanding efforts, 
patriotism, and selfless achievements.
