---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `69e57c12a5dc08dd1f84c823353d4a49`
`Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican 
Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following 
information for publication in the Congressional Record regarding 
earmarks I received as part of H.R. 2638, FY 09 Defense Appropriations 
as part of the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009. The list is as follows:

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Army Combat Vehicle and Automotive Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Volvo Powertrain of North America.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13302 Pennsylvania Ave, Hagerstown, MD 
21742.

Description of Request: Funded $2.4 million to build, test, and 
evaluate up to five heavy tactical trucks with hybrid electric 
powertrain. The integrated hybrid drive system will be specifically 
tailored to the M915 line-haul tractor or other heavy trucks selected 
by the Army. The program's goal is to provide the military with more 
fuel efficient, cleaner and easily maintained heavy truck powertrain.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RDT&E Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Proxy Aviation Systems.

Address of Requesting Entity: 12850 Middlebrook Road, Germantown, MD 
20874.

Description of Request: Multiple UAS cooperative concentrated 
observation and engagement against a common ground objective. This 
program was funded $4.4 million to provide requirement for operational 
need from CENTAF for a UAS cooperative engagement capability and a 
standing objective requirement for Predator to operate up to eight air 
vehicles simultaneously from a single ground station. This will 
increases effectiveness of current fleet of UAVs by enabling multiple 
UAVs to cooperate in the same airspace and dynamic mission execution.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Navy Shipboard System Component Development.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Northrop Grumman Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1840 Century Park East, Los Angeles, CA 
90067-2199.

Description of Request: Power Dense Integrated Power System for CG(X) 
was funded $3.0 million to continue the development of a power dense 
integrated power system (IPS) suitable for surface combatant main power 
generation, distribution and conversion. These developments will 
facilitate removing 20% of existing system weight and cost, enabling a 
increase in combatant payload capacity. Contractor activity will be 
performed at Northrop Grumman Electronic Systems, Marine Systems at 
7301 Sykesville Rd, Sykesville, MD 21784.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Procurement, Defense-Wide.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Smiths Detection.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2208 Lakeside Blvd., Edgewood, MD 
21400.

Description of Request: Joint Chemical Agent Detector Program was 
funded $4.0 million to provide advanced detection and warning, 
identification of contamination on personnel and equipment, and 
monitoring for presence of chemical warfare agent and toxic industrial 
chemical contamination. This project will ensure that Maryland National 
Guard and other guard units receive the latest chemical warfare agent 
and toxic industrial detector in their hands.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Navy Advanced Submarine System Development.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Chesapeake Sciences Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1127B Benfield Blvd., Millersville, MD 
21108.

Description of Request: Submarine Fatline Vector Sensor Towed Array 
was funded $800 thousand to provide the fabrication, assembly and test 
of a prototype 96-element vector sensor fatline submarine towed array. 
It would also include testing and data analysis to show that Vector 
Sensor towed arrays provide a cost effective means to achieve 
significant improvement in detection, fire control, and self-defense 
capabilities for our submarine fleet.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Defense-Wide, RTD&E Microelectronic Technology Development 
and Support.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Northrop Grumman Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 1580A W. Nursery Rd., Linthicum, MD 
21090.

Description of Request: Scalable Topside Array Radar (STAR) 
Demonstrator funded for $800 thousand to develop and build a STAR to 
validate performance and reduce cost/risk of next generation surface 
ship radar systems. This program directly supports the Navy's plan for 
an aggressive radar competition to help reduce the cost of next 
generation platforms such as the CG(X) cruiser.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Army Combat Vehicle and Automotive Advanced 
Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Patrick Power Products, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 6679-C Santa Barbara Rd, Elkridge, MD 
21075.

Description of Request: Rotary, Multi-Fuel, Auxiliary Power Unit 
Development Program was funded for $2.4 million to continue advancement 
of the company's auxiliary power unit technology to address the needs 
that the Army put forward. The RMF-APU development work has progressed 
to a point where the Army has accepted delivery of an RMF-APU from the 
company for fir check and demonstration in the M1 Abrams Main Battle 
Tank. The auxiliary power unit under consideration as a retrofit for 
the [Abrams] tank would reduce the Abram's battlefield fuel demand by 
as much as 50%. This would cut the Abrams daily fuel use in Iraq from 
$30 million to $15 million.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Army Weapons and Munitions Advanced Technologies.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: ATK.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5050 Lincoln Drive, Edina, MN 55436.

Description of Request: Advanced Fuzing Technologies was funded $3.6 
million based on lessons learned in both Operation Enduring freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. These lessons highlighted the need for multi-
purpose 105 mm and 120 mm tank ammunition to effectively engage a wide 
variety of targets other than enemy tanks. Multimode fuzing 
technologies are needed, including point-detonation with variable delay 
and enhanced airburst functionality at extended range. In order to 
address advanced 105mm and 120mm tank ammunitions requirements, funds 
are needed now to mature designs and support the evolution of these 
munitions.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Navy Surface Combatant Combat System Engineering.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Power Technology.

Address of Requesting Entity: 166 Boulder Drive, Suite 201E, 
Fitchburg, MA 01420.

Description of Request: DDG51 Class Permanent Magnet Hybrid Electric 
Propulsion System was funded $7.6 million to development hybrid 
propulsion drive for navy combatants. With the installation of hybrid 
electric drive, the hybrid motors will be operated for ship propulsion 
at speeds less than 13 kts and as a generator for propulsion-derived 
ship service electrical power at speeds of 13kts and above. The Navy 
RDT&E funds will design and build a hybrid electric drive prototype 
system for insertion and testing at the Navy Land Based test site. 
Development and demonstration of a prototype DDG51 hybrid electric 
drive system will enable fuel savings, return of investment, and 
warfighter advantages.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RDT&E Navy force Protection Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: DRS Power and Control Technologies, 
Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4265 North 30th St., Milwaukee, WI 
53216.

Description of Request: Solid state DC Protection System was funded 
$1.2 million to provide a solid state DC circuit breaker protection


prototype. All-electric propulsion Navy Combatant presents a strategic 
advantage in today's world of increasing fuel prices and reliance upon 
foreign oil. The SSDCP will result in 10,000 times lower fault energy 
which protects personnel and equipment, while reducing chance of fire. 
Additionally, it provides greater survivability and mission 
effectiveness and lower acquisition cost and lower lifetime maintenance 
costs.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: RTD&E Army Military Engineering Advanced Technologies.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Convanta Energy.

Address of Requesting Entity: 40 Lane Road, Fairfield, NJ 07004.

Description of Request: Conversion of Municipal Solid Waste to 
Renewable Diesel was funded for $1.6 million to provide an assessment 
of commercially-available technologies and examine existing best 
practices for using municipal solid waste, and potentially other 
feedstocks, to create renewable diesel. This funding will also research 
and test catalytic and non-catalytic systems to convert organic 
materials into renewable diesel that meets stringent EPA requirements 
for low sulfur content, resulting in a cleaner burning fuel and added 
environmental benefits.
