---
---

# PRICE OF GASOLINE
## `69f471f2e4c5d164e118bd818503d0f4`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. If you think about accountability and 
confidence, if you have confidence in the people that are representing 
you, you will certainly have a lot more confidence in the policies and 
the things that they do in Washington.

And what happens in Washington, whether it's dealing with Iraq or 
whether it's dealing with the cost of health care, which is another 
huge issue which hopefully we're going to start tackling soon, or 
whether it's dealing with any number of issues that we are talking 
about right now, I feel so much better now just watching the process 
than looking last year and seeing the Medicare bill that was drafted by 
pharmaceutical companies that had a big donut hole and really took 
advantage of people's good intentions of needing health care at an 
elderly age. And certainly in Florida, in all of our communities, we 
have a lot of senior citizens.

So the Medicare and the pharmaceutical issues unfortunately were not 
handled the right way, you know, the energy issues. These are solvable 
problems. We started talking about that in our opening tonight, 
solvable issues.

Little bit of backbone, little bit of roll up your sleeves, and turn 
off the air conditioning, and put a coffee down and nobody's getting up 
and out until you finish the job, that's the kind of can-do attitude 
that I think we have and we're going to continue to have over the next 
year.
