---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `6a22b73e69997da479f625ab950904a0`
`Mr. KERRY — 1 November 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I am pleased today to be introducing 
legislation, the Small Business Contracting Revitalization Act of 2007, 
designed to protect the interests of small businesses in the Federal 
marketplace.

As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, I have focused a considerable amount of energy 
promoting the interests of small businesses in the Federal marketplace. 
The legislation that we are introducing today marks a critical step 
forward in this process.

It is no secret that the Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship places a great deal of importance on moving 
legislation forward in a bipartisan manner, the members of my Committee 
understand we represent the interests of all of our Nation's small 
businesses, the most important and dynamic segment of our economy. And 
nowhere is the bipartisan consensus stronger than in the area of 
Federal procurement and ensuring that our Nation's small businesses 
receive their fair share of procurement opportunities. I am pleased to 
once again be introducing bipartisan legislation with the Committee's 
ranking member, Senator Olympia Snowe. Regardless of who has chaired 
the Committee during our tenure together, we have both worked hard to 
improve small business Federal procurement opportunities.

The legislation we are introducing today has one ultimate purpose, to 
expand opportunities for small businesses to contract with the Federal 
government. And the reality is that small businesses need all the help 
they can get with respect to accessing the Federal marketplace. In 
fiscal year 2006 according to Eagle Eye Publishing, the Federal 
Government missed its 23 percent contracting goal by 3 percent. That 3 
percent represents more than $12 billion in lost contracting dollars 
for small businesses. Service-disabled veterans fared the worst when it 
came to Federal contracting with only 0.87 percent of Federal dollars 
going to their firms. Women-owned firms only took in 2.57 percent of 
Federal dollars while they make up more than 30 percent of all 
privately held firms. Minority-owned firms continue to face barriers to 
Federal contracting. The SDB and 8(a) program only accounted for 6.75 
percent of Federal contracting. These numbers tell the stark story of 
why this legislation is so important. If small business is the engine 
that drives our economy when it comes to Federal procurement that 
engine needs an overhaul. Our bill looks to make that overhaul as we 
look at making improvements in five key areas.

The first area we attempt to make improvements in is the area of 
contract bundling. Although contracting bundling may have started out 
as a good idea it has now become the prime example of the old saying 
that too much of a good thing can be very, very bad. The proliferation 
of bundled contracts coupled with a decimation of contracting 
professionals within the Government threatens to kill small businesses' 
ability to compete for Federal contracts. In our hearing on July 18, 
2007, on contracting, we heard testimony about the damage to 
opportunities for small businesses because of the lack of oversight and 
contract bundling.

Our bill looks to address those issues by ensuring: accountability of 
senior agency management for all incidents of bundling; timely and 
accurate reporting of contract bundling information by all Federal 
agencies; and improved oversight of bundling regulation compliance by 
the Small Business Administration.

The bill also ensures that contract consolidation decisions made by a 
department or agency, other than the Defense Department and its 
agencies, provide small businesses with appropriate opportunities to 
participate as prime contractors and subcontractors.

The second area that this bill attempts to address is subcontracting. 
The Committee heard in the July 18 hearing and in a May 22, 2007, 
hearing on minority business about the challenges that many small 
business subcontractors face when dealing with


prime contractors. Witnesses related that the way subcontracting 
compliance is calculated creates opportunity for abuse. They also 
related that many small businesses will spend time, money and effort 
preparing bid proposals to be a part of a bid team and that once the 
contract is won they never hear from the prime contractor again. Many 
also complain about lack of timely payments after they have completed 
work.

This bill attempts to deal with some of these issues by including 
provisions designed to prevent misrepresentations in subcontracting by 
prime contractors. To accomplish this, the bill: provides guidelines 
and procedures for reviewing and evaluating subcontractor participation 
in prime contracts; authorizes agency pilot programs that will grant 
contractual incentives to prime contractors who exceed their small 
business goals; and requires prime contractors who fail to comply with 
subcontracting plans to fund mentor-protege assistance programs for 
small businesses.

The third area that our legislation attempts to address is the 
updating of the socioeconomic programs administered by the SBA. In our 
first hearing of the year on January 31, 2007, we heard veterans with 
service connected disabilities speak about the difficulty that they are 
having accessing the Federal marketplace. It is clear that the 
Government is not doing enough. In fiscal year 2006, service-disabled 
veteran-owned businesses only got 0.87 percent of all Federal 
procurement--well short of the 3 percent statutory goal.

Our bill will assist service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses 
in obtaining Government contract and subcontract opportunities by 
expanding the authority for sole-source awards to SDV firms. In 
addition, the bill will allow: the surviving spouse of a service-
disabled veteran to retain the business's SDV designation for up to 10 
years following the veteran's death; the SBA to accept SDV firm 
certifications from the Department of Veterans Affairs; and the 
establishment of an SDV mentor-protege program by the SBA. Our veterans 
are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, and we owe it to them to give 
them every opportunity at fulfilling the dream of entrepreneurship.

We heard from women business owners in our September 20, 2007, 
hearing, on women's entrepreneurship that the time has come to 
implement the women's procurement program. The administration has 
continually postponed implementing a women's procurement program that 
became law 7 years ago. This bill tells SBA to get it done within 90 
days.

Another program sorely needing our attention is the 8(a) program. 
This program was created to assist socially and economically 
disadvantaged small businesses, but, as we heard during the May 22, 
2007, hearing, the financial threshold for inclusion in the program is 
out-dated and too restrictive. The net-worth thresholds have not been 
updated since 1989. This bill allows for an inflationary adjustment to 
be made to the threshold and it excludes qualified retirement accounts 
from consideration while calculating the threshold so that businesses 
that belong in this program won't be shut out.

This bill also makes a number of changes to the HUBZone program. The 
bill would expand HUBZones to areas adjacent to military installations 
affected by BRAC. It will also make other changes that will expand the 
HUBZone program to subcontracting as well as creating a mentor protege 
program. I understand the stated goal of this program is to develop 
areas of poverty through government contracting. And while I agree that 
this is a laudable goal I also remember the controversy that surrounded 
the creation of this program in 1996. I am keenly aware that the 
HUBZone program was created to supplant race-conscious programs like 
8(a) and the small disadvantaged business program. I fought hard to 
preserve those programs then and I will continue to preserve and 
strengthen those programs in the future. In the interests of moving 
this bill forward and improving all of the programs I have agreed to 
include these priorities for Ranking Member Snowe. I look forward to 
working with her to move the priorities that are important to all of 
the socio-economic groups in this legislation.

The fourth area that we intend to update is the acquisition process. 
This bill aims to increase the number of small business contracting 
opportunities by including additional provisions to reduce bundled 
contracts and by reserving more contracts for small business concerns. 
The bill accomplishes this by: authorizing small business set-asides in 
multiple-award, multi-agency contracting vehicles; and requiring that 
agencies include advance plans on small business spending in their 
budgets and submit a report describing the impact of each bundled 
contract awarded by an agency. The bill also directs the SBA to 
annually report to Congress on small business participation in overseas 
Government contracts.

The last area that we tackle in this legislation is small business 
size and status integrity. The Committee has heard from a number of 
small businesses about large businesses parading as small businesses. 
During our July hearing we looked at the list of the top 25 small 
businesses doing Federal contracting. On that list at least six clearly 
recognizable multi-billion dollar corporations were among the top 25 
small businesses listed including SAIC at number two. I have been 
adamant that small business contracts must go to small businesses. 
Small businesses are losing billions of dollars in opportunities 
because of these size standard loopholes.

This bill attempts to address these issues by adding a new section, 
Sec. 38, to the Small Business Act that is designed to strengthen the 
Government's ability to enforce the size and status standards for small 
business certification. To achieve this, the new section establishes 
procedures for protests, through the SBA, of small business set-aside 
awards made to large businesses; requires the development of training 
programs for small business size standards; requires a government-wide 
policy on prosecutions of size and status fraud; and requires a 
detailed review of the size standards for small businesses by the SBA 
within 1 year.

In closing, I want to reiterate that this has been a truly bi-
partisan effort and we look forward to working with the rest of the 
Senate as we move this legislation forward. It is well past time to 
provide greater opportunities for the thousands of small business 
owners who wish to do business with the Federal government. I believe 
that this legislation is a good step toward opening those doors of 
opportunity.

I hope all of my colleagues will join us in supporting this bill Mr. 
President, ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed 
in the Record.