---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1429,  IMPROVING HEAD START FOR SCHOOL READINESS ACT OF 2007
## `6a2298e4b7a339e995c0cfc39a9be5ce`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, today we're going to reauthorize Head 
Start and reaffirm, through this conference report, our commitment to 
this very, very valuable program.

When I came here 15 years ago, I was insisting that my married 
children make me a grandmother, and they told me it was just none of my 
business. But since then, I now have five grandchildren among my four 
families of young adults, and all of my grandchildren go to preschool. 
And they are lucky because they have working parents who are 
professionals who can


pick out very good schools for them and make sure, the oldest child is 
7/1/2/, and he's the only one in school, he is a second grader, but 
ensure that when my grandchildren enter grade school, elementary 
school, that they know what's going on. I mean, I'm telling you, I 
can't believe it. These kids read, they write, they know their numbers, 
they know their alphabet, they can play Monopoly, and they aren't even 
in kindergarten yet. That's what every kid in America deserves, and 
that's what Head Start does.

Head Start evens the playing field so that the fortunate children in 
my family aren't the only ones that enter elementary school having read 
books, having understood that you sit down in a classroom, that you 
have social needs that you have to learn to deal with when you're a 
young person and you're going to be dealing with other young people in 
a classroom situation.

I feel so fortunate, but I also feel so thankful that in a very 
bipartisan way, under the chairmanship of Mr. Miller and the good 
leadership of Mr. McKeon, we were able to pass legislation that will 
finally bring to this floor a Head Start bill.

We need to increase the Head Start funding, of course. We aren't 
covering every eligible child in the United States, and we must do that 
over time. It's hard to do when you're spending $1.5 trillion in Iraq. 
But we must get our priorities in order, and one of our top priorities 
must be our children. Our children are 25 percent of our population, 
but guess what? They are 100 percent of our future.

We must support programs like Head Start that ensure that our future, 
when we become really old people and these young people are running our 
world and running our Congress, they know what they're doing.