---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2082,  INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6a33310e2c4a9dbb23e740a5d0261bc1`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, if we have learned anything 
from the failures of the war in Iraq, it is that reliable intelligence 
is critical to ensuring America's national security. The terrorist 
attacks of September 11, combined with the continuing threats fueled by 
extremism, radicalism, hopelessness and poverty underscore the 
importance of this legislation.

The new Democratic majority is working every day to ensure that we 
congratulate our intelligence community for its successes but also hold 
it accountable for its failures. This report is a strong step in the 
right direction, and it enjoys bipartisan support. I am proud of our 
product and hope that my colleagues will agree. I urge a ''yes'' vote 
on the rule and the underlying conference report.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Hastings of Washington is 
as follows:



 Amendment to H. Res. 859 Offered by Mr. Hastings of Washington




 At the end of the resolution, add the following:



 Sec. 2. That immediately upon the adoption of this 


 resolution the House shall, without intervention of any point 


 of order, consider the resolution (H. Res. 479) to amend the 


 Rules of the House of Representatives to provide for 


 enforcement of clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House 


 of Representatives. The resolution shall be considered as 


 read. The previous question shall he considered as ordered on 


 the resolution to final




 adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of 


 the question except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided 


 and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of 


 the Committee on Rules; and (2) one motion to recommit.