---
---

# None
## `6a34f2332f7677d3adc91a39c0f313d6`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, reclaiming my time, I want 
to make sure everybody knows that there are no hard lines in the sand 
in this House. And, in fact, the bill that we voted on today is 
different from the bill that we voted on about 2 weeks ago. In fact, 
what this House voted on, and what many Members insisted upon several 
weeks ago, was a hard deadline in the sand that said that we had to be 
out of Iraq by next spring or, at the latest, next fall. And many of us 
stood up and said, for the reasons we talked about tonight, that in 
order to get the Iraqis to finally stand up for themselves, we have got 
to give them that sense.

The bill that we voted on today in an effort to bring the President 
to the table, to get him to sign a bill that puts every dollar he asked 
for, and, more for troops and veterans was a goal. It was a goal. Now, 
there are a lot of us who wanted to see more than a goal. All of this 
is an effort in compromise. But that goal even is apparently 
objectionable to this President. And I have a feeling that this House 
will move again and will try to come up with yet another means of 
resetting our policy and our course in Iraq that is acceptable to this 
President.



So if anybody has any idea out there that the House of 
Representatives is just saying X and the President is just saying Y, 
no, we're trying to make that effort. And you know what? People are 
going to look in the paper this morning and see a vote that has a lot 
of Democrats voting for it and a lot of Republicans voting against it. 
Lest they think that that's been the case day in and day out here, in 
fact, it's been the exception to the rule in how we have conducted 
ourselves in this House. The 100 hours agenda, making changes on our 
economic policy, our health care policy, our national security policy, 
our homeland security policy had record numbers of Republicans. We 
stood together and we have stood together on everything from the 
minimum wage to stem cell research to even the budget.

So we have made great progress, I think, in this House on bringing 
back together some of that partisan divide. Lest people look up at the 
vote that we took tonight and think that we didn't honor our pledge to 
really start to bring that back together, I think we have in large 
part.

And I think that's important to say because I know, Mr. Hodes, that 
as important as it is to the new Members to get Iraq right, to get 
health care right, to get energy right, it's also really important for 
us to start bridging some of the gaps here. And it pains us when these 
things do hit party lines, but on something as important as Iraq, the 
vote is what the vote is. And we'll get back to building those bridges 
as soon as we get beyond it.