---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `6a352174dc36e3ea41c4c790615745ea`
`Mr. LEAHY — 2 February 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, over the past year, President Obama has 
been working hard to restore America's credibility in the world and our 
reputation for justice and our commitment to the rule of law. A key 
component of that important mission is ensuring accountability for 
American contractors and employees overseas. Accountability is crucial, 
not just for our image abroad and our diplomatic relations, but for 
ensuring our national security.

To restore accountability, Congress must make sure that our criminal 
laws reach serious misconduct by American government employees and 
contractors wherever they act. Today, I join with Senator Kaufman to 
introduce the Civilian Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, CEJA, to 
accomplish this important and common sense goal.

Tragic events in Iraq in 2007 made clear the need to strengthen the 
laws providing for jurisdiction over American government employees and 
contractors working abroad. In September 2007, Blackwater security 
contractors working for the State Department shot more than 20 unarmed 
civilians on the streets of Baghdad, killing at least 14 of them, and 
causing an international incident with the Iraqi government.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, conducted a full-scale 
criminal investigation of the Blackwater shootings, and prosecutors 
brought indictments against five contractors. Last month, a Federal 
district judge dismissed all the charges because of an order from the 
past administration immunizing Blackwater contractors under Iraqi law 
and immunity commitments by the prior administration to obtain the 
testimony of some. Although the Justice Department is expected to 
appeal the dismissals, this could mean that those who perpetrated this 
act will not be held accountable. I believe that, had jurisdiction for 
these offenses been clear, FBI agents would have been on the scene 
immediately, which could well have prevented the problems that have 
plagued the case.

Other incidents have made all too clear that the Blackwater case was 
not an isolated incident of contractor misconduct, and accountability 
for U.S. Government contractors and employees is essential. Private 
security contractors have been involved in violent


incidents in Iraq, including other shooting incidents in which 
civilians have been seriously injured or killed. In these cases too, 
there have not been prosecutions.

Last fall, the Senate Judiciary Committee heard testimony from Jamie 
Leigh Jones, a young woman from Texas who took a job with Halliburton 
in 2005 when she was 20 years old. In her first week on the job, she 
was drugged and gang-raped by co-workers. When she reported this 
assault, her employers moved her to a locked trailer, where she was 
kept by armed guards and denied even access to a phone.

Only after pleading with her captors was she eventually given use of 
a phone. She called her father, who contacted her Congressman, who in 
turn contacted the State Department. State Department officials were 
able to free her. Ms. Jones testified about the arbitration clause in 
her contract that prevented her from suing Halliburton for this 
outrageous conduct, and Congress has moved to change the civil law to 
prevent that kind of injustice. Today we seek to fix the outdated 
criminal laws that have also contributed to the failure to bring those 
who perpetrated this heinous crime to justice.

Unfortunately, many other women have encountered similar abuse and 
have similarly seen their attackers escape any accountability. Also 
last year, we learned that contractors hired to secure the American 
Embassy in Afghanistan engaged in various forms of outrageous conduct 
but there, too, there have been no prosecutions. It is time to correct 
this injustice.

I worked with Senator Sessions and others in 2000 to pass the 
Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, MEJA, and then again to 
amend it in 2004, so that U.S. criminal laws would extend to all 
members of the U.S. military, to those who accompany the military, and 
to all contractors who support the Defense Department mission overseas. 
We wanted to make sure that all contractors working alongside the U.S. 
military or protecting U.S. interests overseas were held to the same 
standard that they would be at home. We pay these contractors with 
taxpayers' money, they represent the U.S. overseas, and they should be 
held to the same standards as our military.

In 2007, I worked with then-Senator Obama and with Senators Sessions 
and Specter on further legislation which would have amended MEJA to 
make sure that all security contractors, not just those supporting the 
Defense Department, are accountable under U.S. law.

Today, we introduce a bill that would finally address this issue in a 
comprehensive way, establishing clearly that all U.S. Government 
employees and contractors who commit crimes while working abroad can be 
charged and tried in the United States under U.S. law. The State 
Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and numerous 
other Government agencies have employees, and in recent years, more and 
more private contractors, working abroad. There must be accountability 
for all of these people who represent our Government overseas. In those 
instances where the local justice system may be less fair, this 
explicit jurisdiction will also protect Americans by providing the 
option of prosecuting them in the U.S., rather than leaving them 
subject to hostile and unpredictable local courts.

Not only will this bill help to provide justice in cases where there 
has been none, it will improve our national security by allowing 
prosecution of those who undermine our efforts to create stability and 
improve foreign relations. By ensuring accountability in cases of 
wrongdoing against citizens of the host country, as in the Blackwater 
case, we will increase international trust and cooperation, including 
from those countries most essential to our counter-terrorism and 
national security efforts. The current lack of accountability reduces 
international confidence in our military and our Government, which 
undermines our national defense. Moreover, the talented men and women 
we need to advance our national security efforts will be more likely to 
step forward and serve if we stamp out the lawless atmosphere in places 
like Iraq and Afghanistan.

The legislation we introduce today would further increase 
accountability by providing additional resources and creating new units 
to investigate wrongdoing by contractors and employees abroad and by 
calling on the Attorney General and the Justice Department's Inspector 
General to report to Congress on investigations under this bill.

In the past, legislation in this area has been bipartisan. I hope it 
will be again. Senator Kaufman and I are willing to work to address any 
concerns with this legislation and to ensure that it promises justice 
in a way that strengthens, rather than weakens, our national security. 
Congressman Price is introducing a companion bill in the House. I hope 
that we will be able to rapidly pass this important reform into law.

As we seek to restore our Nation's historic role as one of 
responsible leadership in the world, we must ensure that the values 
that brought us to that leadership are firmly in place. One of those 
great American values is the rule of law. No one should be above the 
law, certainly not American employees and contractors representing this 
great nation throughout the world. This common sense bill would promote 
the rule of law throughout the world and make us stronger in the 
process. I hope Senators on both sides of the aisle will join us.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.