---
---

# U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ
## `6a35d99d62f2c06c1c54462ebca25daa`
`Ms. STABENOW — 5 February 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I rise this evening being greatly 
disturbed by what happened on the floor of the Senate, after a 
tremendous amount of good-faith effort and very hard work by our 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle, bringing together a resolution 
to offer to this body for a debate, for a full debate on the question 
of escalating the war in Iraq. What we have seen from the minority is a 
filibuster that has stopped us from even proceeding--from even 
proceeding to be able to take up the resolution.

Our majority leader offered to take up other resolutions, some 
contradicting the one that we wished to have brought forward, to have 
equally debated resolutions, the same amount of time, the same amount 
of votes that are needed in order to be able to bring forward the 
resolutions and possibly pass them.

Every effort by the majority leader was turned down. Every time he 
brought up a possible solution to be able to bring forward these 
resolutions and have a full debate, which the American people are 
demanding that we do, he was told ''no.'' No, no, no. So we are now in 
a situation where the minority has voted down the ability for us to 
even go to a resolution or multiple resolutions dealing with the issue 
of Iraq, which we are all so deeply concerned about.

Right now it is after midnight in Baghdad, and we have over 130,000 
American troops who are settled in for another long night half a world 
away from home. They are living, working, fighting in the most 
difficult conditions anyone can imagine. They are patrolling crowded 
streets. They are standing guard on lonely posts. They are reaching out 
to Iraqi citizens and putting themselves constantly in harm's way to 
protect their fellow soldiers. They are there because their Government 
called them. They come from every corner of this great Nation. They 
represent every color, creed, religion, and political voice in this 
country.


I have been to Iraq--many of us have--and I have talked to our men 
and women in the field and they are the best this country has to offer. 
For our entire history, they have answered when called. They have gone 
where we sent them. They have fought when we have asked them to do so. 
They have dedicated their lives to preparing for wars they did not 
want, and when asked, they have executed their training with pride, 
bravery, and an unwavering spirit.

We are blessed this evening to sleep under the blanket of freedom 
they provide. And no one--no one in this Chamber--is questioning the 
job they are doing. We are all patriots in this debate--all of us--with 
differing views, strongly held views about the best way to move 
forward. We are all patriots.

I have listened intently over the past weeks, and I have heard 
colleagues and representatives of the administration state time and 
again that those of us questioning the President are somehow 
undermining the morale of our troops. I find that insulting, not only 
to me and to my colleagues who care deeply about this and who have 
worked together in a bipartisan way to bring forward this resolution 
but to our soldiers, our sailors, our airmen, and marines. Open and 
honest debate about the execution of this war is not only what our 
armed services expect, it is what they deserve. Our citizen soldiers 
demand our best, and our best is not idle silence. Our best is not a 
filibuster that stops a resolution from even coming to the floor so 
that we can have an open, honest debate about it. Our citizen soldiers 
are on the frontlines. In this Chamber, we use words, but those words 
have real-world consequences, and no one lives those consequences more 
than our troops on the ground. Debate in a democracy does not undermine 
the morale or the will of our armed services. The lack of a clear, 
measurable, and achievable mission does undermine what they are doing. 
That is what we are all wanting to see happen. That is what we want to 
see developed for them.

They need to know that their leaders have based their orders on 
reason, not on wishful thinking and on a misguided adherence to a 
failed strategy. They need to know that their leaders have sensibly 
considered all of the options available and that those considerations 
are grounded in fact, not in rhetoric or posturing.

On October 11, 2002, 23 of us in the Senate cast a lonely vote 
against this White House effort to go to war because the evidence was 
not clear enough--it just wasn't there--to warrant going to war. I cast 
that vote because I believed that the pretense for war was based not in 
definable evidence but on predetermined conclusions. War is a tool of 
last resort, a decision that should be made with great trepidation when 
our country is at risk and other options have been exhausted.

From day one, the reasoning for this war has been unclear and 
inconsistent, from the initial lack of preparedness for securing 
Baghdad to the most recent call for escalation. We have seen a strategy 
based on the best-case scenario calculations of politicians, not on the 
wholly realistic conclusions of career military officers. Mistakes have 
been made at every turn, and 4 years and over 3,000 American lives 
later and hundreds of thousands of lost lives and injuries of Iraqis, 
we are still paying the price.

Some have insisted this resolution is a ploy to embarrass the 
President. This is clearly not our goal. This is not a discussion about 
politics. It is a debate about policy. Any soldier will tell you there 
are no politics in a foxhole. The American people, Republicans and 
Democrats, are asking us to look long and hard at what we are doing in 
Iraq. We were not elected to stand silently by while our fellow 
citizens demand answers.

We can't even have a full debate because of the vote that happened. 
The American people are asking us not only to debate but to come to the 
right answers, the responsible answers for the direction and strategy 
in Iraq. Our soldiers deserve that, and we have in front of us a 
resolution that we couldn't even get enough votes to bring up to 
discuss, to debate it fully and have a vote. I believe the simple fact 
is very clear that escalation is not the answer, and I want the 
opportunity to vote on that, to say that on behalf of the people of 
Michigan. Putting more Americans in harm's way will not bring our men 
and women home any sooner. Why would we go further down the path that 
has led us to this point? Why would we repeat our previous mistakes and 
call it a new strategy?

A free and stable Iraq can only be secured by the Iraqis. They must 
embrace responsibility for their collective future and decide that 
living and dying at the hands of sectarian violence is not the future 
they want for their children and their grandchildren. We must support 
their efforts--and I do--but we cannot substitute American troops for 
Iraqi resolve. With the freedom of self-determination comes the 
responsibility of collective security.


We must continue to train our friends in Iraq. We must equip them and 
provide sensible military support based on the advice of our generals 
and military experts. We must lead them by example, by embracing the 
realities of our own democratic process as we attempt to collectively 
solve the challenges in the war in Iraq. How can we be talking to them 
about the democratic process when that process is stopped right here in 
the Senate in the ability to openly debate and vote on the resolution?

I stand in support of the Warner-Levin resolution and to say that 
escalation is a grave mistake. I am certain when judged by our fellow 
Americans, the votes that many Members will cast, if we have the 
opportunity to do so, to say ''enough is enough'' to this White House 
will be greeted with sober support.

With heaviness in my heart, I am also sadly confident that when 
judged by history, those who have questioned the reasoning and the 
execution of this war will have our concerns justified.



We can't change how we got here. We can't change the fact we are in 
Iraq. That chapter of history is written, set in stone, and paid for 
with the lives of Americans and Iraqis, and the lives of many other 
individuals around the world. However, we can learn from the path we 
have walked. We have the ability to reassess and to change course, to 
get it right, to put forward our collective best wisdom from everyone 
who has been involved. On behalf of our soldiers, they deserve that. 
They deserve a full debate in the Senate, to be able to state our 
positions on policy, on policy that right now at this moment they are 
carrying out in Iraq. They deserve the very best debate and very best 
decisions.

That is what this is about. That is what we were hoping to get 
tonight, the opportunity to go forward, to work together in a 
bipartisan way to put forward a statement that says we believe there is 
a better way, a better strategy than what the President has begun to 
execute.

I hope we will have an opportunity to vote on this resolution. I 
welcome other resolutions that colleagues have put forward in good 
faith. I may not agree with them--and that is all right; that is how 
the process works--but they deserve debate just as our resolutions 
deserve debate.

In Iraq, we are talking about their setting up a democracy, the 
ability to fully debate and participate in their government. We need to 
show by example that we are not afraid of debate, of involvement, we 
are not afraid to stand and say what we think and put our own vote and 
opinions on the line on something so critical to the future of our 
country, most particularly to our men and women in the armed services 
and their families, and, frankly, to the world.

We need the opportunity to vote. We need the opportunity to debate. 
The American people are calling on the Senate to do nothing less. 
Tonight was not an example of our listening.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.