# RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2009
## `6a369cec63c4d4305cbe80b27e535632`
`Mr. LEAHY — 24 September 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased that today the Senate will 
pass the Reserve Officers Association Modernization Act of 2009. I 
thank Senator Chambliss and Senator Pryor, cosponsors of this 
legislation and chairs of the U.S. Reserve Caucus, for their hard work 
and support of this legislation.

This legislation makes several updates to the charter of the Reserve 
Officers Association, ROA, to more accurately reflect the 
organization's current operation. First, it adds the position of 
''president elect'' to its constitution and bylaws. Additionally, under 
the legislation, the national executive committee is expanded to 
include three representatives from each of the seven branches of the 
uniformed services. This bill makes the first changes to the ROA 
charter since 1998 and will enable ROA to continue its good work.

Since its founding in 1922, the ROA has worked on behalf of the 
National Guard and Reserves and their families. For over 85 years, ROA 
has remained committed to its original mission, to ''support and 
promote the development and execution of a military policy for the 
United States that will provide adequate National security.'' The 
Reserve Officers Association represents the Reserve components officers 
for the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, the Air and 
Army National Guard, Public Health Service, and the officers of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

As chair of the Senate National Guard Caucus, I have worked closely 
with groups like the Reserve Officers Association, ROA, to ensure that 
the National Guard and Reserves have access to more affordable health 
care, a greater influence in the military, adequate training facilities 
and supplies, and shorter troop deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The National Guard and Reserves provide an invaluable contribution to 
our Nation's military, our national security, and disaster relief 
efforts, and it is vital that we continue to support their needs.

The Reserve Officers Association has provided a voice to the men and 
women that serve our country in the National Guard and Reserves. I am 
proud that today the Senate has demonstrated its support for the brave 
members of the National Guard and Reserves by passing this legislation.