---
---

# None
## `6a44c76409b36ff1657f6e135a22f110`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. I want to thank my friend and colleague from San 
Antonio, Congressman Charlie Gonzalez, for taking this opportunity 
tonight for us to recognize those soldiers that have served our country 
and that have been immigrants and are noncitizens of this country. I 
want to personally thank him for allowing this opportunity for us to be 
able to do that.

There are approximately 69,300 foreign-born men and women who serve 
in the United States Armed Forces, roughly 5 percent of the total 
active duty force. Of those 43 percent, which is 29,800, are not U.S. 
citizens. I repeat, of those that are serving our country, of those 
69,000, 43 percent, or 29,800, are non-U.S. citizens.

The Pentagon says more than 100 immigrant soldiers have died in 
combat in Iraq and Afghanistan in the last 5 years. I want to repeat 
that again, that over 100 immigrant soldiers have died both in the war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan.


This evening, I join my colleagues in paying tribute and recognizing 
the service of these men and women who, out of the desire to become 
citizens of the United States, enlist and fight proudly and bravely for 
our country. They display the ultimate symbol of patriotism and of 
commitment to defending a dream that we all share.

The service and sacrifice of these brave immigrants is often lost in 
our debate over immigration reform. That is why I am here this evening 
to share the story of immigrant soldiers from the 23rd Congressional 
District. The story and life of the soldier is of great significance to 
the State of Texas and the Nation.

Earlier this year, Texas State Representative Chente Quintanilla of 
Texas introduced a resolution to the Texas House of Representatives 
paying tribute to the life of Sergeant Israel Devora Garcia. Sergeant 
Garcia of Clint, Texas, died in Iraq on April 1, 2006, at the age of 
23.

Sergeant Garcia was attached to the Headquarters Company, 2nd 
Battalion, 6th Infantry, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Armored Division, 
based in Baumholder, Germany, and was serving his second tour of duty 
in Iraq. He was mortally wounded while conducting a dismounted patrol 
in Baghdad.

He was born in Zacatecas, Mexico. Sergeant Garcia came to the United 
States at the age of 6 and graduated in 2001 from Clint High School in 
Texas, where he was an honor student. Although he completed all of his 
required courses ahead of schedule and was told that he only needed to 
attend school part-time, he insisted on attending a full day and, in 
his spare time, helped tutor other kids.

Drawn to the military at an early age, Sergeant Garcia spent 4 years 
in the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps and demonstrated a 
notable capacity for leadership. In addition to winning first and 
second place medals during week-long camps at Ft. Bliss, Texas, he 
attained the rank of major and served in the executive office of these 
units.

Family and friends will forever remember Sergeant Garcia for his 
cheerful nature, his great zest for life and his strong desire to help 
others. In his leisure time, he enjoyed playing the guitar with 
friends, and he had a special passion for soccer.

After fulfilling his commitment to the Army, Sergeant Garcia's plan 
was to study law enforcement at Texas A&M University and hopefully 
apply for the FBI in the Border Patrol. Sergeant Garcia earned United 
States citizenship shortly before he died, and he was officially 
proclaimed a citizen at the cemetery in Clint, Texas.

Notwithstanding the dangerous nature of his mission, this courageous 
soldier performed his mission with dedication and professionalism. He 
was awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. Through his 
unfaltering devotion to duty, honor and his country, Sergeant Israel 
Devora Garcia embodied the highest ideals of the United States Armed 
Forces, and his valiant efforts in the memorable sacrifice are 
deserving of honor by every American.

Sergeant Garcia is survived by his mother and his father, Frances and 
Lorenzo Sandoval; his sister, Rosa Sandoval; and his brothers, Adrian 
Sandoval and Lorenzo Sandoval, Jr. Sergeant Garcia's story may not seem 
like that of other veterans, but this represents part of the American 
history that has too often been overlooked.

His story, like the stories my colleagues are sharing tonight, are 
stories of immigrants in this country. This evening we share those 
stories of individuals that are out there giving their all. More 
notably, the American public must understand and recognize that 
noncitizens have served and have died for our country, not only during 
the Iraq and Afghanistan war, but during every single war during this 
country's struggle.

I take this opportunity to once again thank Charlie Gonzalez for 
allowing us to have this opportunity.