# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `6a44c611796b2a1cbdbc6dcfe467fd2f`
`Mr. DURBIN — 25 February 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, there are several amendments pending. This 
is a bill which is trying to make history. I thank Senator Lieberman, 
Senator Hatch, and others for bringing this bill to the floor. We have 
600,000 residents who live right here in the District of Columbia who 
do not have a vote. They do not have a vote in the House of 
Representatives nor in the Senate. They never have. They were created 
as a kind of Capitol District without a voting Congressman, 
Congresswoman, or Senator. Of course, the people in the District of 
Columbia pay Federal taxes. Their sons and daughters take an oath to 
protect America and march off to war. At least seven have recently died 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. They are bound by virtually all the Federal 
laws that people in Illinois or Oregon or Connecticut would be bound 
by, but they do not have a voice.

There is no representation of 600,000 people. I think that is a gross 
miscarriage of justice. I salute those who bring this bill to the floor 
today to give the District of Columbia, specifically the 600,000 people 
who live here, that voice in Congress. It is long overdue.

But there is an interesting relationship between Congress and the 
District of Columbia. Even though they do not have a voice in the 
Congress, Congress has always had a voice in the District. Congress has 
assumed a role somewhere between Governor and mayor when it comes to 
the District of Colombia. I have seen it when I served in the House and 
the Senate. A lot of Members from all over the United States of America 
who secretly long to be mayors get their chance. They come to


Washington, they come to Congress, and they sit down and they play 
mayor for the District of Columbia.

They make all kinds of decisions, decisions that do not relate to war 
and peace or Federal Government; decisions that in most places are 
going to be confined to mayors and city councils or Governors or 
legislatures. People in Congress cannot suppress the urge to be mayors, 
so they make all kinds of rules for the District of Columbia. Some of 
them are nothing short of outrageous.

They delve into issues which the people in this city ought to decide 
for themselves--zoning issues, issues of public health, issues that, 
frankly, we do not have any business working on. But we can't stop 
ourselves. These Senators who want to be mayors get their chance. You 
can be a Senator from another State, but you can play part-time mayor 
in the District of Columbia.

That is one of the good reasons for this underlying bill, so finally 
at least some person can stand up in the House of Representatives and 
say: I am representing these people and these people do not care for 
what you are doing to them.

Along come a couple of amendments here. They are in this big 
constitutional debate, history making, about the future of Washington, 
DC, and several of my colleagues cannot suppress the urge to be mayor. 
They want to be mayor of the District of Columbia.

One of them has come in with a proposal relative to firearms in the 
District of Columbia. This is offered by Senator Ensign of the State of 
Nevada and about a half dozen or a dozen other Republican Senators. 
Here is what they are trying to do.

They want us to write the ordinances for firearms in the District of 
Columbia. Are we going to do it in a committee hearing? Bring in the 
police? Bring in the experts? Sit down and do this thoughtfully? No. We 
are not going to have any committee hearings. We are going to allow the 
National Rifle Association to write the gun ordinance for the District 
of Columbia.


Do you want to guess what is going to be in that ordinance? Not much, 
when it comes to dealing with firearms.

I guess you could be sarcastic and say why would you worry about 
controlling firearms in Washington, DC? I am not going to be sarcastic 
because I can recall a time not that long ago when a deranged 
individual brought a gun into this Capitol building and fatally injured 
two Capitol Hill policemen before he was finally suppressed.

I can recall when a President of the United States at the Washington 
Hilton hotel on Connecticut Avenue, a man by the name of Ronald Reagan, 
was shot down in the District of Columbia.

I can recall time and again the efforts made, by men and women who 
are Capitol police officers, to protect us and our visitors, wondering 
at any moment whether someone was going to open fire on them.

I can recall not that long ago an inauguration with 2 million people 
on the Mall and the overwhelming concern we all had for the safety of 
everyone involved and particularly for our new President or First Lady, 
the First Family. I saw the length we went through to protect them 
because of the obvious--we live in a dangerous place. We live in a 
dangerous time. A person with a gun, if they are willing to lose their 
own lives, can take out the lives of almost anyone. That is a fact. So, 
is there reason for us to be careful when it comes to guns? In my 
hometown of Springfield there is. In the great city of Chicago that I 
represent, you bet there will be. Kids are getting gunned down every 
day--certainly in Washington, DC, our capital city.

Guns need to be taken seriously--I won't say more seriously. Every 
life is precious. But when we are entertaining visitors from around the 
world who come to our Washington, DC, U.S. Capitol, we want to offer 
them protection and safety as they travel. Maybe it is a special 
circumstance here. But this town needs to be as safe as possible, for 
the people arriving here, for the visitors, for all of us.

So the National Rifle Association has decided they want to establish 
the standard for firearms in the District of Columbia. Let me tell you 
what they would do, to give you an idea if they could write the 
ordinance for guns in the District of Columbia, with the Ensign 
amendment. There are a few things they would like to do. The amendment 
would provide:




 The District of Columbia government shall not have 


 authority to enact laws or regulations that discourage or 


 eliminate the private ownership or use of firearms.


If that is your starting point, listen to what follows. It blocks the 
District of Columbia from passing any background check or registration 
regulations, even sensible regulations that are needed to help law 
enforcement know who is buying guns. So the first thing the NRA wants 
to do is say we cannot ask you for a background check to find out if 
you should be able to own a firearm in the District of Columbia. What a 
great starting point.

It also prevents the District of Columbia passing laws that require 
gun proficiency training. It even prohibits them from educating parents 
about child gun safety.

You read the stories--we all do--about children killed when they find 
a firearm at home, play with it, shoot themselves or a playmate, a 
little brother or a little sister. This bill would prohibit the 
District of Columbia from establishing gun safety training.

The amendment would also prohibit the DC City Council from taking 
steps to unduly burden--that is the language of the bill--the 
acquisition or use of firearms by persons not already prohibited under 
Federal law. That means that DC could not pass a law, for example, 
restricting access to guns by those convicted of misdemeanor sex 
offenses involving a child.

That is a fact--because the Federal law does not prohibit that, DC 
could not. A person convicted of a misdemeanor sex offense with a child 
could not be prohibited, under this NRA amendment, from owning a 
firearm in the District of Columbia. Make you feel safer? Would it make 
anyone feel safer? Obviously, some people at the NRA would.

Let me tell you what else. It repeals the age limits for legal gun 
possession. Now, this is a good one. Let's basically say you cannot 
tell someone you are too young to own a gun or maybe too old and 
feeble. It repeals DC's prohibition on gun possession by anyone who was 
voluntarily committed to a mental institution in the last 5 years. How 
many times have we heard the stories on college campuses, in my State, 
in the State of Virginia, of someone who had a serious mental illness, 
turned to violence and killed innocent people?

It happened in Illinois. It happened in Virginia. It happened in 
other places. So governments try to keep guns out of the hands of 
people who are mentally unstable. The Ensign amendment would stop the 
government of the District of Columbia from imposing that standard when 
it came to possession of a firearm.

It also repeals, while we are at it, not just those voluntarily 
committed to mental institutions, but it would repeal the DC 
government's prohibition on gun possession for those who have been 
judged by a court to be chronic alcoholics; you cannot stop them. Under 
this Ensign amendment, they can own a gun. It is their second amendment 
right.

Well, I will tell you what. That is not what the Supreme Court said. 
The Supreme Court said reasonable regulation of firearms was still the 
standard in America. But I am afraid the Ensign amendment goes way 
beyond reasonable regulation.

Well, here is another one. What if you had a requirement that before 
someone could buy a gun in the District of Columbia, they had to be 
able to see, a vision test. Not unreasonable. You want to have a gun or 
drive a car, you ought to be able to do it safely. This bill would 
prohibit the District of Columbia from imposing an onerous burden that 
a person has to pass a vision test in order to own a firearm.

I find this incredible. It is also unimaginable to me that this law 
expressly allows the residents of the District of Columbia to cross 
borders into our States, buy firearms and come back. There is no 
restriction, no limitation.

Now, I admit it has not worked very well. There has been a lot of gun 
violence in this town, even with that law. But why do we want to raise 
this white flag and say we are not even going to


try to restrict or limit them? So when the supporters of the Ensign 
amendment say DC does not need any gun laws because Federal gun laws 
are strong enough, pay attention, they are, in fact, trying to weaken 
Federal gun laws at the very same time they are passing this amendment.

We do not debate guns around here much anymore. We used to. 
Basically, we reached a point where there are not many people who will 
stick their political necks out to vote for sensible gun control--too 
big a hassle. The NRA is going to target you back home, and you are 
going to have to spend a lot of money to try to explain to people, as I 
have, if you want to own a gun, if you want to use it safely, 
responsibly, for self-defense or sporting purposes, your right should 
be protected.

But you also ought to accept the responsibility, the responsibility 
to make certain that people check on your background so you do not have 
a criminal record, a history of mental illness, chronic alcoholism. You 
ought to be able to limit the kind of guns people buy. I mean, there 
are some people in my State and all over who say you should not limit 
people. They should be able to buy whatever they want.

I do not buy that. I have always said, if you need an AK-47 to go 
deer hunting, you ought to stick to fishing. Obviously, you do not know 
how to use a gun, you just want to spray bullets until something stops 
moving. There are also limitations in most places as to where you can 
take your gun and how you can use it. I do not think that is 
unreasonable.

Coming from a family, people who are hunters and sportsmen, they are 
pretty conscientious. They lock up the guns in the gun cabinet. They 
know when the rabbit season starts and when the squirrel season starts 
and they are out there. They do not want to take their gun into the 
mall. It would not make, in my opinion, sense to them. That gun has a 
purpose.

But there are other people who disagree, people who think this is an 
absolute right. I am afraid that is what has inspired the Ensign 
amendment. I do not know if Senator Ensign or the people, the dozen or 
so folks who have cosponsored this amendment, have all gone back to 
their home States and said: We hope you will do exactly this. My guess 
is they have not. My guess is Senator Ensign has not gone to the mayor 
of Las Vegas and said: Let's take all the gun laws out; that ought to 
help us bring in some tourists. I do not think he has done that. Maybe 
he has, in all fairness. I will give him his chance to respond to that 
on the floor.

But it strikes me as peculiar and fundamentally unjust that Senators 
who will not impose these standards in their own hometowns want to 
impose them in the District of Columbia. They do not have the courage 
to stand in their own hometowns and say: We ought to let people with a 
history of mental illness have guns. Why? Because reasonable people 
would say to them: Are you out of your mind? They would not say someone 
judged by the court as a chronic alcoholic ought to be able to buy an 
assault weapon. Not unless you happen to live in the Nation's Capital, 
where Senators get to be mayor, where Senators try to write gun laws, 
where Senators pass ordinances here. It is a shame.

It has been going on for a long time. I am not picking on the 
sponsors of this amendment. It has been going on as long as I have been 
here. But it does not make any sense. If there was ever a town, and if 
there was ever a time where we should take the extra measure to be 
safe, it is this town at this moment.

We have to make sure the men and women who serve in elected office, 
the wonderful staff people whom we have, the millions of visitors who 
come into this building come in with peace of mind, knowing they and 
their families are going to be safe, not to worry that some law passed 
in the Senate is going to create a shooting gallery right outside the 
Capitol grounds.

This amendment does not make good sense. It certainly does not make 
common sense. It is not required by the Supreme Court. It is an 
amendment that basically is an attempt for the National Rifle 
Association to do a little temperature check, find out where they are 
in this new Congress, to push to the limits the gun issue and to see 
who is going to follow it.

I know a lot of Members who said: Well, that is their decision, I 
respect them for it. But I respectfully disagree. Let us keep DC safe. 
Let's make sure all the people who value this city and the great 
tradition and heritage of this city take an extra measure to make it a 
safe place for visitors, for those who live here, for kids going to 
school, for folks going to church on Sunday. I do not think they 
deserve anything less.

If one of those Senators, any one of these Senators want to stand up 
and say: I have proposed this gun ordinance in my hometown and my home 
State, I think it should apply to Washington, they would have more 
credibility. But without that, they just want to experiment, experiment 
on a city that for over 200 years has not had a voice in this Congress, 
experiment on a city that is a helpless victim, many times to these 
political experiments that people like to try, through Congress, on 
Washington, DC.

I urge my colleagues: Read this. Take the time to read this 
amendment. Pause and reflect and ask yourself one question: Would I 
want this in my hometown? Is this a standard? I know some will say yes, 
but most will say no. This is extreme. This goes too far.

The District of Columbia is trying its best after the Supreme Court 
challenged and voided one of its ordinances. It rewrote its gun law. It 
allows for the registration of pistols, revolvers, and long guns for 
self-defense at home. So people in the District can have a gun in their 
home for self-defense.

It bans assault weapons and junk guns used for crime. It prevents 
persons with a history of violence within 5 years from registering a 
gun. It prevents a person convicted of domestic violence or who is the 
subject of a protective order, within 5 years, from registering a gun.

It prevents a person with multiple alcohol-related offenses within 5 
years from registering a gun. It requires that an applicant for a gun 
complete a firearm safety training course. It limits an applicant to 
registering one gun every 30 days. It bans magazines on guns over 10 
rounds. It tightens gun dealer licensing requirements. It requires all 
new semiautomatic pistols to be stamped so they can be traced in a 
crime.

It protects children by requiring registrants to safely store their 
firearms, and it abolishes concealed carry licenses, except in very 
narrow circumstances. That is the law if you want to own a gun in the 
District of Columbia. If you have a legal right to do so, you have to 
follow some basic rules, commonsense rules, rules that will be thrown 
right out the window with the Ensign amendment.

That is not good for the District, it is not good for America. I urge 
my colleagues to oppose this amendment.

I yield the floor.