# RECOGNIZING VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS POST 696 IN OWENSBORO, KENTUCKY
## `6a64a99aec9aecd616d5924bb1b762c8`
`Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky — 5 October 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
outstanding work the Members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 696 
in Owensboro, Kentucky, continue to do to improve their community. Post 
696 has exemplified the mission of the VFW: ''Honor the dead by helping 
the living.''

The Post has donated over $22,000 to local and State organizations in 
the past year. Beneficiaries of their generosity have included local 
schools, the Boy Scouts, shelters, and churches. Their generosity has 
also been extended to organizations such as the Wendell Foster Center, 
Shriners Hospitals, the Children's Wish Foundation, the Disabled 
American Veterans, and JEVCO.

Post 696 recently sponsored a going away picnic for the members of 
Ft. Campbell's Alpha Troop and their families being deployed to Iraq. 
The city of Owensboro adopted Alpha Troop through the Americans 
Supporting Americans' Adopt-a-Unit-Program. I thank the members of the 
troop for their service and the city of Owensboro for this commitment 
to these brave soldiers.

The VFW Post 696 Honor/Color Guard has been busy serving the 
community as well. Since 2001, they have participated in over 400 
Veteran funerals and 50 community events in Daviess County.

I want to recognize the leaders of Post 696, Commander Richard 
''Ike'' Eisenmenger Jr., Ladies Auxiliary President Marilu Goodsell, 
and Color/Honor Guard Commander Joseph Hayden. They have worked 
tirelessly to serve veterans and improve their community.

It is my privilege to honor the members of VFW Post 696 today, before 
the entire United States House of Representatives, for their past 
service to our country and continued dedication to serving their 
community.
