---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `6a664df912e8872839cb4ebefb79d48e`
`Mr. ENGEL — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 1538, the 
Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007. This bill will provide long 
overdue assistance to our wounded veterans.

I know every Member of this body has read some of the horrific 
stories that have come out of veterans' facilities such as Walter Reed, 
which is just a few miles from where we stand. Stories such as mold in 
the rooms, holes in the ceiling, and insect and rodent infestation 
became commonplace at what should be our preeminent Army healthcare 
facility.



We owe our war veterans the very best care that our country can 
provide, but these problems at Walter Reed are not isolated incidents. 
They are indicative of an Administration that has failed soldiers and 
veterans at every level. The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act will help 
remedy the problems that have become known over the past few years.

This bill will take a number of steps to improve the quality of life 
for injured veterans. For starters, it will reduce the workload of case 
managers handling the medical care of vets. Currently, these case 
managers are overwhelmed with thousands of soldiers who have come back 
wounded from Iraq.

In addition to reducing their caseload, this bill will also require 
that case managers are properly trained to handle the supervision of 
the soldiers in their care. These injured soldiers need an advocate to 
help them navigate the paperwork and potential obstacles they face.

H.R. 1538 will also direct the Department of Defense to create a toll 
free hotline for soldiers to report problems with their medical care, 
or with the facilities in general. Had there been a hotline already, we 
might have learned about the Walter Reed problems long ago.

As has been proven with all the problems that we have seen in 
military medical facilities recently, there has been a general lack of 
oversight involving the military hospitals. This bill will fix that 
problem by creating an oversight board. This board would be composed of 
members of the House, Senate, as well as appointees of the Departments 
of Defense and Veterans Affairs. This oversight is critical to prevent 
these terrible conditions from reoccurring.

Mr. Chairman, throughout our Nation's history, our freedom has been 
preserved by members of the Armed Forces. Countless soldiers throughout 
our history have given their lives or their health to preserve our way 
of life. Ensuring that they get the very best healthcare is the very 
least we can provide them with. How can we possibly ask a soldier to 
sacrifice a limb to preserve our safety, and then put them in a dirty, 
moldy room when they return? This is unconscionable behavior, and 
passing R.R. 1538 is a good way to address some of these problems.

I strongly support the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, and I urge my 
colleagues to offer their support as well.