---
---

# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `6a670fed6ecc88dde72078021aaba73d`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, less than 2 years ago, a new 
Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, made a solemn promise to America's 
veterans. The gentlewoman from California said that the new 110th 
Congress would honor our veterans not just with our words, but with our 
budgets that would be truly worthy of their sacrifice.

With the passage of this bill, Speaker Pelosi has kept her promise to 
those


who have kept their promise to serve our Nation. With the dedicated 
leadership of Chairmen Obey, Spratt, Filner, and an incredible staff, 
in just 2 years this House will have increased veterans' health care 
and benefits funding by more than the Republican-led House did in the 
previous 12 years. In 2 years, the 110th Congress will have done more 
to increase funding for veterans' health care and benefits than any 
Congress in the history of our Nation. Promises made, promises kept to 
America's heroes. That's what this bill is all about.

Specifically, this bill adds to last year's historic increase in 
veterans' programs by increasing VA health care and benefits funding by 
$4.5 billion. That is $2.8 billion above the President's request.

What does this mean to our veterans?

By hiring more doctors and nurses, health care services will be 
expanded, and waiting time for doctors' appointments will be shorter. 
For the first time since 2003 when the Bush administration put a rigid 
income cap on veterans eligible for VA health care, we will open the 
doors of VA hospitals and clinics to more middle-income veterans.

For veterans having to drive long distances to VA hospitals and 
clinics, the VA mileage reimbursement, which was just 11 cents in 2007, 
will now be 41.5 cents per mile.

For many Iraq and Afghan war veterans, this bill will ensure the 
mental health care services they need and deserve to rebuild their 
lives.

For veterans who never delayed in answering their call to duty, this 
bill will mean shorter waiting times for their earned benefits to be 
approved.

For military troops and their families, this bill will mean better 
housing, more daycare centers and modernized training facilities with a 
military construction budget that is $649 million above the President's 
request.

And let me thank our ranking member, the gentleman from Tennessee 
(Mr. Wamp) for his partnership every step of the way; and Mr. Young and 
the other members of our subcommittee, both Republican and Democrat 
alike, who helped build this bipartisan bill on military construction 
and veterans.

Mr. Speaker, a vote for this bill is a vote of respect, respect for 
those who have given so much in service to our Nation in uniform. They 
have kept their promise. Today, let us keep ours.