# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `6a842671216135dadb86101658c3b5d3`
`Mr. GRASSLEY â€” 6 May 2008`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, we are in a situation where a couple 
hours from now we will have a vote. I am sure people across the country 
watching this debate might be wondering what is going on, on this 
Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. I would like to 
shed some light on where we are. As I shed some light, I wish to 
respond to some of the fiction that has taken the guise of debate.

On Wednesday of last week, two Senators, one Republican and one 
Democrat--Senator Hutchison and Senator Durbin, respectively--offered 
an amendment to strike a provision in the substitute amendment then 
before the Senate. The substitute then pending was the product of 
extensive staff negotiations and Member discussions between two 
committees with jurisdiction over the Federal Aviation Administration 
program. The two committees were the Finance Committee, on which I 
serve, and the Commerce Committee, on which I do not serve.

People who may not understand how the Senate works or does not may 
wonder what the situation is. I would like to explain there are certain 
elementary things about the Senate that are fundamental. First, nothing 
gets done in the Senate that is not somewhat bipartisan because of the 
benefit of debate for minorities to hold up legislation until things 
are accommodated--meaning compromise. It is often difficult to get one 
committee's Republicans and Democrats together to get agreement to 
bring something to the floor that can get passed. It is difficult to 
get Republicans and Democrats on one committee together, but then we 
have the added benefit of the Commerce Committee getting together for a 
compromise, and then working out compromises between the Finance 
Committee and the Commerce Committee makes it doubly or, in a triple 
manner, difficult to get things done on the Senate floor. So we have 
two committees that reach accommodation bringing a bill to the floor. 
After it gets here, then it runs into trouble.

The Finance Committee's involvement in this is determining the 
aviation excise taxes, and it controls the airport and airway trust 
fund. We have to raise revenue. Without that money, there would not be 
much the Federal aviation program could ever accomplish. On the other 
hand, the Commerce Committee develops all the policy and all the 
programs that involve airports and aviation. So that is how you get two 
committees working together to get a bill to the floor. The Finance 
Committee works out its differences between Republicans and Democrats 
on financing. The Commerce Committee works out its differences between 
Democrats and Republicans on the policy of airports and aviation. Then 
you have to get these two committees together to move things to the 
floor of the Senate.

Last year, the Commerce Committee acted first. The Finance Committee 
acted a few weeks later. The Finance Committee, as part of its 
compromises, addressed airline pensions. We have heard many arguments 
pro and con about the merits of the Finance Committee provision. I 
addressed the merits myself at length last week so I will not repeat 
them now. But in a few moments I wish to respond to some of the points 
made by opponents of the Finance Committee provision.

As I said earlier, the substitute that was before the Senate until 
last Thursday was a product of a compromise between the Finance 
Committee and the Commerce Committee. Under that compromise, the 
Federal Aviation Subcommittee chairman and ranking Republican were 
managing the bill. They were, however, at a minimum, under the 
obligation to consult with the Finance Committee chairman who is 
Senator Baucus of Montana and the ranking member who happens to be this 
Senator with respect to Finance Committee matters in that substitute. 
That compromise and understanding was violated when the Democratic 
floor manager unilaterally modified the substitute. Under the rules of 
the Senate, he had that right. The modification was directly adverse to 
the interests of the Finance Committee members' compromise among 
themselves. So the managers breached that compromise, plain and simple. 
That compromise was breached.

What matters worse is the Democratic leader backstopped the 
Democratic floor manager's violation of the Commerce-Finance Committee 
compromise by filling the amendment tree. Basically, for those 
watching, that means nothing is going to be brought to the Senate floor 
as an amendment without the unanimous consent of somebody who has that 
responsibility on the other side of the aisle. So with tremendous power 
in one person, what we call the amendment tree is filled.

Now, we all know the proponent of the amendment, the Democratic whip, 
has a lot of power. That power was displayed when the offending narrow 
pension provision I have already referred to--the pension provision the 
Finance Committee was trying to correct--was airdropped into a 
conference report on Iraq spending last year. There were no hearings. 
There was no markup. There was no committee process. There was no 
transparency, just airdropped in a war supplemental conference 
committee report, something that everybody knew was going to pass and 
be signed by the President. So airdropped, wam, bam, here it is, take 
it or leave it, special interest provisions cooked up in the offices of 
leaders of the Democratic caucus. It is not the way we ought to 
legislate.

We have been told that by people on the other side of the aisle many 
times. I wish to make reference to at least one of those times. I seem 
to recall a lot of outrage when these kinds of narrow provisions were 
airdropped into a conference report when we Republicans were in the 
majority. No one was louder than the proponent of the amendment that 
was last week on the Senate floor than the Democratic whip. If we had a 
C-SPAN checker, you could roll the tape back a few years. But I will 
have to settle because I am not going to roll C-SPAN back to 
demonstrate the inconsistency of what is going on here, for a New York 
Times article I wish to refer to.

I ask unanimous consent that this letter be printed in the record.