# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `6a9252e53c1ebd470e9561f829dd4718`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. Madam Chairman, I rise today to enter into 
this colloquy with Mr. Boyd to express my support for the House budget 
resolution for fiscal year 2009. A budget is a reflection of our 
national priorities. For far too long, the administration's priorities 
have been misplaced. In fact, the budget submitted by the President 
earlier this year makes cuts to Medicaid, Medicare, and the 
environment. In addition, it taxes our veterans by requiring them to 
pay new fees for health care.

As a result of this administration's misplaced priorities, the $5.6 
trillion projected 10-year surplus that they have inherited has been 
squandered. As a result, our children and grandchildren are confronted 
with the challenge of paying back a $9.3 trillion debt.

This budget before us today, however, is a good budget for Florida 
and the Nation. The House budget protects our homeland by rejecting the 
President's cuts to first responder programs, reinstates funding for 
the COPS program, and that will put 247 more police on the street in 
Florida. This budget helps Florida's kids. It provides substantially 
more money for schools and education than the President's budget. It 
will allow our schools to hire the highly skilled teachers that over 
25,000 Florida children need desperately to help them grow up and 
compete in the global economy. It rejects the President's irresponsible 
new fees that he wants to put on the backs of our veterans. It 
increases health care funding to allow our Veterans Administration to 
treat the 5.8 million more patients, including 333,000 from the Iraq 
and Afghanistan wars.

I support this budget because it is fiscally responsible, it balances 
the budget by 2012, and it adheres to all of the PAYGO rules. Finally, 
I support this budget because it protects the most vulnerable among us: 
our Nation's seniors. Specifically, the budget resolution improves 
support of housing for the elderly.

I would like to thank Chairman Spratt for working with me to ensure 
that the Section 202 Housing for the Elderly program is adequately 
funded. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.