# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `6a9e32e313b0d16bd68c82643a95428c`
`Mr. BAYH â€” 7 July 2008`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart to honor the 
life of SSG Travis K. Hunsberger from Goshen, IN. Travis was 24 years 
old when he lost his life on June 27, 2008, in Tarin Kowt, Afghanistan, 
from injuries sustained from an improvised explosive device. He was a 
member of the 2nd Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group of Fort Bragg, 
NC.

Today, I join Travis' family and friends in mourning his death. 
Travis will forever be remembered as a husband, son, brother, friend, 
and soldier. He is survived by his loving wife Hannah; his parents 
Steve and Ronda Hunsberger; his sister Kelsey; and his brother Kyle.

Travis graduated from Northwood High School in 2002 and attended Ball 
State for 2 years before enlisting. A family man, Travis invited his 
parents to Fort Bragg to witness a reenactment of his wedding. Travis 
had served once before in Afghanistan and sustained an injury, yet he 
never wavered in his commitment to his country or to the U.S. Armed 
Forces. Prior to Travis' redeployment, his father, Steve Hunsberger, 
told a local reporter that Travis had a choice of being on an ''A 
team'' or a ''B team,'' with the A team serving in a ''more dangerous 
realm.'' Travis, unwavering in his bravery, chose the ''A'' team. His 
dedication to his country ''is what brought him his greatest 
happiness,'' Kent Norr, associate pastor at Wakarusa Missionary Church, 
said. These words illustrate the passion Travis had for serving this 
nation, and his memory will endure through the many lives he touched.

While we struggle to express our sorrow over this loss, we can take 
pride in the example Travis set. Today and always, Travis will be 
remembered by family, friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true American 
hero, and we cherish the sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his 
country.

As I search for words to do justice to this valiant fallen soldier, I 
recall President Abraham Lincoln's words as he addressed the families 
of soldiers who died at Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as we can take 
some measure of solace in knowing that Travis' heroism and memory will 
outlive the record of the words here spoken.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Travis K. Hunsberger in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about 
this struggle in which we are engaged, and the immeasurable pain that 
comes with so great a loss, I pray that Travis' family can find comfort 
in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow up death 
in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Travis.












 Staff Sergeant James P. Snyder


Mr. President, I also rise today with a heavy heart to honor the life 
of the brave staff sergeant from Nappanee, IN. James Snyder, 48 years 
old, died on May 10, 2008, at Fort Benning, GA, from injuries sustained 
in January from a roadside bomb explosion in Baghdad, Iraq. With an 
optimistic future before him, James risked everything to fight for the 
values Americans hold close to our hearts, in a land halfway around the 
world.

For James, military service was a family tradition. His family has 
valiantly served in the military since World War I, and James was proud 
to take up that mantle. Originally from Columbus, IN, James was a 
lifelong Hoosier. He graduated from Wawassee High School and joined the 
Armed Forces in 1989. A career soldier, James was on his 3rd tour of 
duty in Iraq when he was injured. He also served in Operation Desert 
Storm in 2005.

Those who knew James best recall a patriotic man who loved history. 
He was devoted to his family and cared deeply for his fellow soldiers. 
During his time at Fort Benning, he often spoke of his need to return 
to Iraq to take care of his comrades. His great example of service and 
character inspired his two nephews, Jeremiah Mench and Steven Keller, 
to enlist in the Army.

Today, I join James' family and friends in mourning his death. James 
will forever be remembered as a loving husband, father, son, brother, 
and friend to many. He is survived by his wife Christine Hochstetler; 
his children Dourlas, Karlene, and Joseph; his mother Donna; his 
brothers David, Daniel, and Paul; and his sisters Lorree, Laura, and 
Neva.

While we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take 
pride in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of James, a memory that will burn brightly 
during these continuing days of conflict and grief. Today and always, 
James will be remembered by family members, friends and fellow Hoosiers 
as a true American hero, and we honor the sacrifice he made while 
dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring James' sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of James' actions will live on far longer that any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of James P. Snyder in the Record 
of the U.S. Senate for his service to this country and for his profound 
commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about this 
just cause in which we are engaged, and the pain that comes with the 
loss of our heroes, I hope that James' family can find comfort in the 
words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow up death in 
victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with James.
