---
---

# A TRIBUTE TO RICHARD S. UDOFF
## `6aa18ebfff10999f388719a8d4c39ee6`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 30 March 2009`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
Mr. Richard S. Udoff, the Joint Veterans Committee of Maryland 2009 
Veteran of the Year. His years of service and dedication to our Nation 
and its Veterans are both admirable and inspiring to all.

Richard enlisted in the U.S. Air Force in August of 1950, soon after 
the breakout of the Korean War. Upon completion of basic training, he 
spent 26 weeks training at the Aircraft and Engine School. After 
graduation he reported to Germany as a member of the 41st Troop Carrier 
Squadron of the 317th Troop Carrier Wing as a Flight Engineer on a C-
119 Flying Box Car. As a result of his military service Richard 
received the following awards and decorations; Army Good Conduct Medal; 
Army of Occupation Medal; National Defense Service Medal; Air Crew 
Wings and two Presidential Unit Citations.

Richard and his twin sister were born in Medford, Massachusetts, 
along with another brother and sister. He followed his family to 
Baltimore in 1948, and graduated from Forest Park High School in 1950 
where he played baseball, hockey, basketball and ran track. When the 
Korean War started Richard decided to enlist and serve his Country. 
Richard returned home in August 1954 receiving an Honorable Discharge 
with the rank of Staff Sergeant and soon started civilian life working 
in the insurance business until 1967.

Later in life, Richard began his service organization career with 
dual membership in the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars 
(VFW). He entered VFW Post 521 in Owings Mills, Maryland where his 
leadership skills were recognized and he was elected as Post Commander. 
He excelled with an All State Post Commander his first year and 
received numerous first and second place awards for VFW programs.

Richard then became District 7 Commander, a position he held for 
three years. Because of his leadership skills, he was the Captain of 
the District Commanders All State Commanders Team for two years. Among 
other accomplishments, Richard was instrumental in setting up a group 
of VFW members who met men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan as 
they entered and departed from BWI Airport.

In his next role, Richard was the Chief of Staff for VFW State 
Commander Ron Dickens. He was responsible for heading a committee that 
provided catered lunches and dinners for the wounded veterans, their 
families and hospital staff at Bethesda Naval Hospital, Walter Reed 
Army Hospital and the Malone House. He was appointed a member of the 
Garrison Forest Veterans Cemetery Advisory Committee and eventually 
became its Chairman. Richard was the VFW State Junior and Senior Vice 
Commander and was elected as the VFW State Commander 2007-08 and became 
an All-American State Commander. He was elected as the Vice Chairman of 
the JVC and ran a very successful Veteran of the Year Banquet for 
George Creighton. Richard was elected as the Chairman of the JVC for 
the 2007-08 term. He received ''The Legion of Honor Bronze Medallion'' 
presented by the Chapel of Four Chaplains. This past October, he was 
recently honored and inducted into the ''Maryland Senior Citizens Hall 
of Fame, Inc. of Baltimore County''. He is a life member of the VFW, 
the American Legion, Jewish War Veterans, AMVETS, DAV, and a member of 
the Military Order of the Cooties. Richard has been Captain of the 
National VFW Honor Guard for the past four years.

Richard and his wife of 52 years, Shirley, reside in Owings Mills, 
Maryland. They have two children and four grandchildren. Madam Speaker, 
I ask that you join with me today to recognize Richard S. Udoff for his 
dedication and loyalty as a Veteran of the United States Armed Forces, 
and as an advocate and a leader in the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
