# None
## `6ab404926d90281431ae5b181de4472c`
`Mr. MURTHA — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. This Appropriation Committee will have appropriated $1.2 
trillion for this war and for the Defense Department in one year. When 
I came to Congress, we had appropriated $100 billion for defense for 
the whole year.

We keep talking about progress; that's what the military leaders in 
Iraq talk about. I wish we saw progress.

I voted for this war because I believed that our Nation was 
threatened. Two or three weeks later, I realized that we weren't under 
any threat; we were misled. There was no threat to our national 
security. We went in with inadequate forces. I'm the one that found the 
lack of body armor, 44,000 troops without body armor, without armored 
Humvees; and now 4 years later, we're arguing about timelines where the 
Iraqis ought to take over the war themselves. We're arguing about 
allowing the Iraqis to do what the President agreed to. And we want to 
set a timetable so that they are forced to agree to it. There is no 
question in my mind every time the Iraqis stumble, the United States 
steps in and puts our American troops in between the civil war.

I just visited Fort Hood, Fort Stewart and Fort Bragg. The troops are 
somber. The troops are going to do their job. They're valiant. I am 
inspired by the troops. But let me tell you, they're burned out. In the 
schools in Fort Bragg they say they need counseling. In the schools of 
Fort Bragg they say there's higher truancy. They say the students' 
achievement has dropped. You know who's suffering? We talk about 
fighting this war. We're not fighting this war. A very small segment of 
this population is fighting this war, and they're burned out. I've had 
troop commanders who were there three times say, we can only spend 10 
months in combat and we start making bad decisions; and I believe that.

They say there's progress, and I've just seen over 200 killed in 2 
days. We've lost more Americans in the last 4 months than any other 
period during this war. That's not progress. The electricity production 
is below prewar level. Production of oil is below prewar level. How do 
you measure? Rhetoric doesn't measure progress.

In my estimation, this war has been so mishandled. Congress has an 
obligation to set a standard, to have accountability. And this bill is 
called the Iraqi Accountability bill, and that's what we're trying to 
do. We're trying to hold this administration accountable for the 
mistakes that they have made.

Does anybody know we have 125,000 contractors in Iraq? 125,000. And 
when we pointed this out to the Secretary of Defense, do you know what 
he said? He said, ''They're making more money than I make.''



The Secretary of Defense said these contractors are making more money 
than he makes, 125,000 of them. They couldn't tell the committee for 2 
months how many contractors they had.

They have got a fellow fueling a truck on one side, and he's making 
$25,000, and right beside him is a guy making $80,000 fueling a truck. 
Why is that? Are we meeting our recruiting standards when we need 
125,000 people that are contractors in Iraq riding around shooting 
people, as I saw in the Washington Post the other day, shooting 
inadvertently at people? They want to kill somebody, this one guy said? 
That's the face of America? We've lost credibility because of some of 
these contractors and the actions of these contractors.

I say we need to set timelines. We need to set a benchmark. We need 
to say to the Iraqis, it's time for you to take over and decide your 
own fate, like we did in our own revolution.

I ask Members to vote for this benchmark set by the gentleman from 
California.