# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `6ac425b5eed4174049df81666f0b7eb7`
`Mr. KYL — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, this amendment was drafted to provide money 
for the capture or information leading to the capture of Osama bin 
Laden. Senator Sununu and others looked at that and said: Wait a 
minute, this is a war. It may well occur that we cannot just capture 
him, he may have to be killed. So we added the words ''or death'' to


the amendment by a second-degree amendment. That was adopted this 
morning.

Next week, we are going to get right back to the argument about 
criminalization versus war. There is in the bill--and we are going to 
have to strike the language with an amendment--language that requires 
us to send lawyers over to Iraq and Afghanistan to represent these 
terrorists we capture on the battlefield. We would have to give them 
legal representation in theater, and we would have to show them 
classified information that may be used in their prosecution or 
continued detention.

Mr. President, I have said that is nuts. I hate to use that kind of a 
phrase on the Senate floor, but I don't think it represents good 
policy. We are going to have to strike that language from the bill. 
That is criminalization of the war. This is a war against evil people 
who will kill us if they can. The sooner we recognize that fact and 
deal with them, the sooner we will defeat the enemy, and the enemy will 
no longer represent a threat to us. We cannot assume they don't really 
mean it. We cannot assume we can negotiate with them. We cannot treat 
them as if they are defendants in an American criminal trial. They are 
evil terrorists who deserve to be dealt with on the battlefield, as we 
have dealt with, historically, all of our enemies.

So I hope that next week we can turn from some of the amendments that 
have been used here to primarily undercut the strategy in dealing with 
the Iraq war and debate some key provisions of the Defense 
authorization bill, which do need our attention--I have a couple of 
amendments I hope we can deal with--and that we can also strike from 
the bill the provision that would allow a new theory of criminal law to 
intrude into the battlefield to deal with the POWs or detainees there 
as if they are criminal defendants in an American court rather than the 
POWs or enemy detainees that, in fact, they are.

I hope at the conclusion of the debate next week we will have 
continued to defeat these amendments that undercut our efforts in Iraq, 
continued to support the mission of the troops, and thereby the troops, 
and strengthened the Defense authorization bill so that for the next 
year we will have a bill that strongly supports the troops and provides 
for the national security of the United States of America.