---
---

# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `6ac40272f9df812085eb8c8b3fdfa01c`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 23 October 2007`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. I thank the chairman of the VA Committee for yielding me 
this time.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 327, the Joshua Omvig Veterans 
Suicide Prevention Act. I listened to what Mr. Boswell had to say. He 
is the prime sponsor of the bill. I heard him in committee and I heard 
him again on the floor, and I appreciate so much the fact that he has 
brought this to Congress' attention. And a special thank you to 
Joshua's family and his parents. I am not sure if my child had 
committed suicide after his service in Iraq that I would have the 
strength to not only go on as they have, but to try to bring PTSD to 
the attention of the American people and actually do something about 
it.

I want to share why this is important to me and why I am supporting 
this bill. More than 1,600 Nevada veterans have returned from serving 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many of these brave men and women suffer from 
PTSD. Nationally, one in five veterans returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan are suffering from PTSD; 35 percent have been diagnosed 
with some sort of mental disorder. It is vital that our veterans 
receive the help they need to deal with this condition.

A few years ago a constituent of mine, Lance Corporal Justin Bailey, 
returned from Iraq with some physical injuries as well as a diagnosis 
of PTSD. He struggled with addiction to legal prescription and illegal 
drugs. After consultation with his parents, he checked himself into the 
West L.A. VA facility where he was given five additional prescription 
drugs, including


methadone, without proper oversight. The next day, the man was dead.

I can't understand, it is incomprehensible to me why a facility would 
give anyone with a substance abuse problem a 30-day supply of 
medication unsupervised under a self-medication policy. This 
devastating loss of life could have been and should have been 
prevented. This is a systemic problem in our VA system, and that's why 
this issue needs immediate attention.

One other quick story, if you can call it a story. About a month ago 
I called a grandmother in Pahrump, Nevada. It is a small town outside 
of Las Vegas. Her grandson lived with her. He came home from his first 
tour of duty in Iraq, and he was messed up mentally. He was suffering 
from PTSD. It was apparent to anybody who spoke to him. He didn't want 
to go back. He felt he couldn't handle it. He was emotionally and 
physically drained, and he begged not to go back.

So the military's response was they gave him Prozac because he was 
depressed and they sent him back to the front lines in Iraq. The day he 
got back to Iraq, he blew his brains out. That is a very difficult 
thing to come to grips with if you are the grandmother of a grandson 
who begged you not to let him go back to Iraq.

We have problems with PTSD. It is imperative that we provide adequate 
mental health services for those who have and are currently sacrificing 
for our great Nation. This bill takes a step in the right direction in 
providing our veterans with the health care they have earned.