---
---

# None
## `6ac7185f622f42bad7934d84847718b7`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. I thank my colleague for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, today our Nation is engaged in a struggle with a brutal 
and cold-blooded enemy, cold-blooded killers. These are the kinds of 
folks who will kill people on an airplane and fly it into buildings. 
They will drive a car through a checkpoint, step out of the car, leave 
the kids in the back seat, and blow it up. They will attack civilians 
rather than military targets.

It is utter folly to believe that by establishing timelines and 
saying we are going to pull out today or at some specified date in the 
future, to believe that by doing that they will evaporate and they will 
leave us alone.

Maybe it is another good cop-bad cop type of ploy being employed by 
individuals on the other side of the aisle when the majority leader in 
the other body today declares the war is lost, conceding that al Qaeda 
has won. Is the other side willing to concede that al Qaeda has won in 
Iraq, that they have won in Algeria, that they have won in Morocco, 
that they have won in Afghanistan and that they have won in Pakistan?

When do they believe is the most appropriate time to confront the 
enemy that we face today, if we are not willing to confront them in 
Iraq, if we are not willing to confront them in northern Africa and the 
other parts of the Middle East or Asia? Are we going to once again wait 
until they come to the United States?

This is hard and it is tough, but these are cold-blooded, ruthless 
killers. It is probably inappropriate to call this a war, because the 
people that we're fighting don't deserve the term of ''soldier'' or 
''warriors.'' They are outlaws, they are criminals, and we cannot 
concede this to them, like the majority leader in the other body did 
today. Today, he sent a powerful signal to the rest of the world and to 
our allies that al Qaeda has won and we have lost. How will our allies 
respond to that message?

This motion to recommit is at least a little bit better in that it 
says we haven't lost, but we're willing to soon surrender and give up 
this fight. It is a fight that we can't afford to lose. It is a fight 
that we need to win.

Take a look at what they said. This is in their playbook. Defeat this 
motion to recommit.