---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `6ad0aee8d5084397287fedce40c3f27f`
`Mr. DICKS — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. DICKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2346 the 
Supplemental Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2009, which addresses 
the President's request for additional funding for the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, overseas diplomatic efforts and wildland fire suppression 
and emergency rehabilitation of burned areas. I also want to express my 
support for funds that were approved in this bill to respond to the 
recent swine flu outbreak, which still presents a very real threat of a 
worldwide pandemic.

We are all encouraged by the robust actions of our various public 
health agencies in the United States, including the Centers for Disease 
Control, in response to this threat. It is clear that the health and 
security of the American public remain a top priority, and we support 
the substantial and serious efforts that are being made to protect our 
population against the H1N1 swine flu virus and to prepare for the 
possible consequences. Because we do not know at this point the path 
that this particular strain will take within our population and around 
the world, it is entirely prudent to implement widespread precautionary 
steps in case the outbreak is more virulent than it now appears, or in 
case it re-appears in the fall. Knowing that the 1918 Spanish Influenza 
outbreak killed an estimated 100 million people around the world, and 
that modern transportation has greatly increased the speed at which 
such a pandemic could be spread, we have a serious obligation to 
prepare for any potential outcome.

At the same time, I believe that Congress, in its oversight role, 
must assure that the nation is adequately prepared to detect--with some 
advance capability--this and other types of pandemic disease threats to 
our population. The earlier we can determine the content and the 
severity of a biological threat, for example, the more lives can 
potentially be saved. In this case we have some concern about the 
nation's ability to analyze and interpret warning signals that suggest 
the emergence of a biological threat.

What we know is this: By April 22, the Centers for Disease Control, 
CDC, had identified two cases of a previously unknown strain of Swine 
flu present in Texas, and that the virus was identical to two 
previously analyzed cases that occurred earlier in the month in San 
Diego. By that evening, CDC was able to complete the analysis of 
samples of the virus that had been raging through parts of Mexico, 
finally allowing it to ''connect the dots'' and begin the notification 
of all 50 State public health laboratories.


But it is now also known that CDC received other information earlier 
that at least suggested the possibility of pandemic threat. CDC 
received information from a Washington State firm that tracks global 
disease outbreaks as early as April 6th that suggested the possibility 
of a pandemic. The company, Veratect, has developed a software platform 
called Foreshadow that conducts 24-hour, 7-days-a-week tracking and 
actionable alert generation to detect emerging threats worldwide. 
Through its analyses, Veratect reported on April 6th that health 
officials in Veracruz, Mexico, had declared a health alert due to a 
''strange'' outbreak of respiratory disease outbreak, possibly caused 
by contamination from pig-breeding farms located in the area. Ten days 
later, the company reported that the Oaxaca Health Department had 
detected an unusual number of atypical pneumonia cases. On April 20, a 
Veratect official contacted a CDC physician at the agency's emergency 
operations center to apprise him of the situation in Mexico and to urge 
CDC to take a look at the growing problem there.

Obviously hindsight is 20/20. As with any intelligence product, it is 
always difficult to know at the time what is merely ''noise'' and what 
is truly significant information that requires action. But because of 
my personal knowledge of the circumstances related to these early 
warning signals that were sent to CDC and other governmental bodies, I 
think it is prudent for Congress at this point to assure that we have 
the appropriate mechanisms in place to guarantee that bona fide 
information relating to these types of very real threats to public 
health and safety can be received and interpreted in a timely manner, 
and that it triggers the necessary and appropriate preventative 
actions.

In this regard, I am encouraged that the bill includes report 
language that will require CDC to review its disease detection policies 
and the


speed with which case samples are analyzed to determine if improvements 
should or can be made. Part of this review should include a survey of 
the early detection capability that exists, and whether CDC and other 
agencies of the federal government have sufficient resources to 
properly analyze this type of advance warning information.

I thank Chairman Obey, in particular, for his interest in the issue, 
and for including this important language in the Committee's report.