# RECOGNIZING AND COMMENDING ALL WHO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO FAMILIES AND  CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
## `6ad7bfa823c0ae445bf55f55d6fade86`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 5 September 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of House 
Concurrent Resolution 181 which recognizes and commends all volunteers 
and other persons who provide support to the families and children of 
members of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard and Reserve 
personnel, who are deployed in defense of the United States. I 
appreciate the work of my dear friend and our colleague, Congressman 
Solomon Ortiz, in bringing this resolution to the floor today and 
commend him for his leadership on issues affecting military families. 
Congressman Ortiz is Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee of the 
House Armed Services Committee. I think it is important to highlight 
that family readiness is first and foremost a readiness issue for our 
Armed Forces.

Never was this more apparent than on Congressman Ortiz' recent 
Congressional Delegation to Guam in April 2007. The Congressional 
Delegation had the opportunity to meet with families and servicemembers 
of the Guam National Guard and Army Reserve. The Congressional 
Delegation heard firsthand accounts about the difficulties and 
challenges that are faced by military families during mobilization. The 
Congressional Delegation also heard how the families view their role in 
support of the soldier and reviewed the services that are available to 
them when a loved one is deployed. The testimonials of these families 
proved that our Nation is better served when families of deployed 
servicemembers are provided the best support and assistance at all 
times and from a variety of sources.

The Congressional Delegation also had the opportunity to meet with 
volunteers who help support families of Guard personnel and Reservists. 
It is volunteers that make the National Guard and Reserve family 
readiness programs a success. Volunteers in these readiness groups act 
as an extension of the unit by providing accurate command information. 
Most of the volunteers are the spouses of company commanders. The close 
ties of volunteers to company leadership also help foster a greater 
sense of community with shared benefits and help families navigate 
various issues at any time, but especially when a loved one is 
deployed. Without the support of thousands of volunteers across the 
country, many family readiness groups would not be able to provide the 
support that is needed for servicemembers families. It is important for 
these volunteers and the Congress to recognize the important role they 
fulfill in the readiness of our Armed Forces.


On Guam our families have recently endured many long deployments of 
their loved ones to the Horn of Africa and to other areas of the world 
associated with Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. 
Volunteers have been crucial to the success of these family readiness 
efforts. In particular, in 2002 the Department of Defense recognized 
the family readiness group of Charlie Company, 411th Engineer Battalion 
of the Army Reserve for their instrumental service in


improving many facets of unit readiness, including a 99 percent 
retention rate and 90 percent attendance rate for drill. The family 
readiness group engaged in many community activities and each member 
attended special events of importance to the other families. It was 
these initiatives and community activities that helped bring the 
families of the deployed soldiers together and made enduring the long 
deployment more bearable.

The recognition awarded to the Charlie Company emphasizes the 
critical importance of providing the best family support possible 
during deployments. When families of the deployed soldiers are taken 
care of it relieves our soldiers of worrying about their daily tasks at 
home and helps them to focus on the mission at hand. Indeed, the 
readiness of our men and women in uniform goes beyond providing the 
best equipment or training that is available. It is required that we 
provide a strong sense of community for their families at all times. 
Family readiness must be viewed as a continuum of support that 
continues beyond a servicemember's mobilization. Without volunteers who 
donate countless hours to this effort, family assistance would not be 
as effective and the readiness of our Armed Forces would not be as 
strong as they are today. House Concurrent Resolution 181 raises 
appropriate awareness of the readiness of our Armed Forces and the 
value of military families. I hope that all of us will recognize the 
important ways in which families and family readiness groups contribute 
to the strength of our Nation's Armed Forces.