# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS  JONES
## `6adb3534ef5059b5c4b30497da7519c8`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 8 September 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I feel like family has gathered here on the 
floor, and I thank my good and distinguished friend. We are like 
family. And his mother, and as he has come here, and the extended 
family relationship.

And so, even as I spoke on the bereavement resolution, I wanted to 
come and be part of the Congressional Black Caucus special order 
because I could feel the warmth and spirit just continue to flow 
through. And I hope the Congressional Record doesn't mind us talking 
about spirit flowing through.

I want to acknowledge her staff that is staying here till the end 
that are in the gallery there, and they are like family as well. And we 
know that Stephanie would say she loved her staff, both in Washington 
and in Cleveland.

Certainly, I think the most poignant moment of the going home service 
was my friend and brother, the Honorable Kendrick Meek, and Congressman 
Ryan, having stood together, stoically, strongly, and specially to talk 
about Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones and, as well, as they did so, 
you could feel in that huge, huge Cleveland Convention Center, everyone 
just pouring love toward them. And I think it drew Mervyn, her son, out 
of his seat to go up on the stage and to see the most powerful embrace 
that one could ever see. It will be lasting. I think it will go down in 
the annals of her record, when you pull her up and you look at this 
celebration, this homegoing service, you will note that there was this 
kind of experience, this moving experience. And I want to thank my 
distinguished Member of Congress from Florida, Congressman Meek, for 
just pouring his heart out during that service. I think all of us just 
paused for a moment to see the largeness and the bigness of our 
relationship with Stephanie.

So I wanted to come because I didn't get a chance to just mention 
more extensively, someone who allowed you to know most of her family 
members during her time here in Congress. And the goodness is, I think 
we should celebrate that her family members lived, her mom and dad 
lived to see her become a Member of Congress. Her husband, of which, 
someone mentioned they had celebrated 25 years together or more, lived 
to see her in the United States Congress and enjoyed being part of her 
commitment to the Congressional Black Caucus, with the Congressional 
Black Caucus Foundation. They were a couple. They were a pair.

In fact, I am envious and dream of the fact that I used to hear the 
stories about the yachting that they did together as a couple, and 
always said one day I would have the time to go. But just to think 
about how she used her life experiences of joy and large living to 
touch everyone's life.

When we talked about airlines, when we talked about the troubles 
airlines were having, I remember her talking after 9/11. She would 
always get in there that her dad was a skycap. When they were talking 
about salaries or talking about working conditions at the airlines, she 
had an affinity because she would get in there that her dad was a 
skycap, and she was proud of that.

And I want everybody to know, since we live in this kind of multi-
cultural society, that being a skycap was a big, big deal for an 
African American and an African American man. It was a


middle class, it was a working job that had benefits, but it was an 
important responsibility. I know that because my uncle was a skycap. So 
that was an important, if you will, connection for her dad who 
supported this family.

And of course, her mom and her sisters, and the sister who I had a 
chance, as Congressman Meek mentioned, I had a chance to visit Barbara 
and Mervyn when I went to visit them at home.

There were friends, and I know that I will get in trouble, but I know 
that the Mayor of Warrensville I believe is the name, Mayor Fudge, a 
dear friend and a part of the Delta family. But I know the guy that she 
calls Joe Hewitt; never a single name, just calling him Joe Hewitt, 
larger than life, someone that she cared about; he cared about her. We 
had a chance to fellowship with their family.

So I wanted to just come and say that, as we talk about sisterhood, 
it is really real. And as we talk about traveling with her, it is 
really real. As we talk about being larger than life, it is really real 
as well.

And I want to close simply by just adding to what my good friend, 
Marcy Kaptur from Cleveland said, as I looked at the three 
Congresspersons, one from Maryland, California and New York, three 
beautiful young women. And we lost Congresswoman Julia Carson, Juanita 
Millender-McDonald, and now Stephanie Tubbs Jones, all mentors. And 
look at the legacy that they have left.

Look at the legacy of Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who I call a great 
patriot, a great American, because she could fight you for her love for 
America. She would not take a back seat. Whether or not she was talking 
about predatory lending or whether she was talking about health care 
that did not occur in her community around the Nation, or those 
incarcerated persons who were treated unfairly and didn't get a second 
chance, she still loved America.

So I want to leave us with the words of Sojourner Truth. And it was 
when she was sitting in the back of the room, and it was during the 
abolitionist movement, suffragette movement. And it was crowded, and 
she saw they saw her hand raise up, and the person called on sir, or 
indicated that she was a man. And Sojourner Truth stood up and said, 
ain't I a woman? I born 13 children into slavery. Ain't I a woman?

To Stephanie Tubbs Jones, there will be no doubt that she was a 
woman's woman and a leader's leader.

And finally, in closing, if I can read from Philippians Chapter 4, 
verse 8: Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever 
things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are 
pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good 
report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these 
things.''

Let us think on the life of Stephanie Tubbs Jones, and let us, in all 
of our imperfections, and we have them, embellish those things in 
ourselves. And as the Congressional Black Caucus, let us live on, and 
the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, of which my distinguished 
colleague is the Chair, let her spirit live on as we do her work and do 
the work of the Lord.

I rise today with a conflict of emotions to recognize Congresswoman 
Stephanie Tubbs Jones. I stand with a heavy heart enriched and 
gladdened that I had the opportunity of knowing and working with such a 
beacon of light here in Congress.

Before heading to the funeral I was reminded of the words of, Mother 
Teresa, ''There is a light in this world, a healing spirit--more 
powerful than any darkness we may encounter. We sometimes lose sight of 
this force, when there is suffering, and too much pain. Then suddenly, 
the spirit will emerge through the lives of ordinary people who hear a 
call and answer in extraordinary ways.''

That is why although I rise with a heavy heart at the loss of a 
colleague and friend, I stand with a realization and gratefulness for 
all that Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones was able to do for her 
family, for her constituents, and for her country in her brief time 
here on this earth. I also believe that Congresswoman Tubbs Jones is in 
a better place and is looking down on us with that contagious smile and 
generous nature that made us all love working with her.

As Women's Caucus and Congressional Black Caucus members, the 
Congresswoman and I spent a lot of time working together and talking 
about our lives, our unique work, and the issues facing our nation.


















History


I had the opportunity to get to know this great woman and learn that 
she was born in Cleveland, Ohio, where she graduated from the city's 
public schools, later earning degrees from Case Western Reserve 
University, the Flora Stone Mather College, and Case Western Reserve 
University School of Law.

I knew that she was a proud member of Delta Sigma Theta; and even 
more proud to have been married to the love of her life, Mervyn L. 
Jones, Sr., for over 27 years until his passing in 2003. Together she 
and Mervyn had one son; Mervyn Leroy Jones, Jr., who was the light of 
her life.

Like me, Stephanie Tubbs Jones was a lawyer who had been a local 
judge. She served on the Cleveland Municipal Court in 1981, and later 
on the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County before becoming the 
Representative for the 11th District of Ohio.

She was selected to be the Chairwoman of the House Ethics Committee 
to watch over the standards of ethical conduct for members of the 
House. She also served on the powerful House Ways and Means Committee 
where she fought for economic development and financial opportunities 
for all. She was loved by her district, and was routinely reelected 
against nominal opposition.

Stephanie Tubbs Jones spent 58 years on this earth and she was a 
blessing and her memory will always be a treasure. She was loved beyond 
words, and will be missed beyond measure by all that knew her.

Over the last few months, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones and I travelled 
across the country together. She was always focused on doing the 
''right thing''. She understood that in this unique work of ours we 
serve the people, but we must also answer to our conscience. Doing the 
''right thing'' in this job is not always an easy task--but she did it 
day in and day out as she worked to help the people of Ohio, Americans 
across this great Nation, and our men and women overseas.

She was an outstanding example of what it means to be leader. She 
epitomized service before self. Indeed, as a society, we must do all we 
can do to build upon the strength of service to help strengthen the 
fabric of the Nation. I offer the Tubbs-Jones family encouragement in 
their time of bereavement by saying, ''Blessed are those who mourn, for 
they will be comforted.'' Her work on Earth is complete. We join the 
Lord in saying, well done, thou good and faithful servant. She was a 
fighter for issues that affect the least among us and in all the years 
she was in Congress--she never forgot that. Now let us not forget her.

















 conclusion


The Bible states in Philippians chapter 4 verse 8: ''Finally, 
brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, 
whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever 
things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be 
any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.''

Let us remember Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, a public 
servant, a colleague--a friend.









[From the New York Times, Aug. 21, 2008]








Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Lawmaker, Dies at 58














 (By Dennis Hevesi)




 Stephanie Tubbs Jones, the first African-American woman 


 elected to the House of Representatives from Ohio and a 


 leader in the fight against predatory lending practices, died 


 Wednesday. She was 58.



 The cause was a ruptured brain aneurysm that Ms. Tubbs 


 Jones suffered Tuesday, Eileen Sheil, a spokeswoman for the 


 Cleveland Clinic, which owns the Huron Hospital in East 


 Cleveland where the congresswoman died, told The Associated 


 Press.



 Ms. Tubbs Jones, a Democrat, was in her fifth term as 


 representative of the 11th Congressional District, which 


 includes most of the east side of Cleveland. Two years ago, 


 she was re-elected with 83 percent of the vote. Before her 


 first election to Congress, in 1998, she had been the chief 


 prosecutor for Cuyahoga County in Ohio.



 Considered a liberal, Ms. Tubbs Jones was a co-sponsor of 


 legislative efforts to broaden health care coverage for low- 


 and middle-income people and of programs supporting the re-


 entry of convicts into their communities. She was also the 


 author of legislation requiring certification for mortgage 


 brokers and stiffer penalties for predatory loans.



 In June, Ms. Tubbs Jones voted against emergency 


 supplemental financing for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.



 ''I feel it important that we have a plan for a timely 


 redeployment of our troops from Iraq and Afghanistan before 


 we continue funding what has become a seemingly endless 


 war,'' she said at the time.



 When Congress officially ratified President Bush's re-


 election in January 2005, Ms. Tubbs Jones joined Senator 


 Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, in initiating a rare 


 challenge to what has historically been a polite formal 


 ceremony. They were objecting to accepting Ohio's 20 


 electoral votes for Mr. Bush, citing voting irregularities in 


 the state.





 Instead of holding a courteous joint session to certify the 


 election, lawmakers were forced to retreat to their separate 


 chambers for two hours of debate. In the end, the House voted 


 267 to 31 against the challenge; in the Senate, the vote was 


 74 to 1.



 Stephanie Tubbs was born in Cleveland on Sept. 10, 1949. 


 She graduated from Case Western Reserve University in 1971 


 and received her law degree there three years later.



 From 1976 to 1979, she was an assistant Cuyahoga County 


 prosecutor. In 1981, she won election as a Cleveland 


 Municipal Court judge, and 10 years later she was appointed 


 chief prosecutor.



 As chief prosecutor, Ms. Tubbs Jones was at the center of a 


 controversy in 1998 when she refused to reopen an 


 investigation into the 1954 murder of the wife of Dr. Sam 


 Sheppard, dismissing new DNA evidence that Dr. Sheppard's 


 supporters said would have exonerated him.



 The case had received nationwide coverage in the 1950s. Dr. 


 Sheppard spent 10 years in prison before the Supreme Court 


 ruled that his trial had been prejudiced by publicity. He was 


 acquitted at a second trial, in 1966, and died in 1970. With 


 the new evidence, Dr. Sheppard's son was seeking to collect 


 damages on behalf of his father. Ms. Tubbs Jones argued that 


 the new DNA results would be inadmissible because the samples 


 were too old.



 Ms. Tubbs Jones's husband of 27 years, Mervyn L. Jones Sr., 


 died in 2003. She is survived by her son, Mervyn II.
