---
---

# None
## `6ae4ba3f902255cc6e9ff496a094b422`
`Mr. OBAMA — 26 October 2007`

---

 Mr. OBAMA. Mr. President, today, President Bush is meeting 
with President Joseph Kabila of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
DRC.

This meeting is very important. The DRC symbolizes the hope that so 
many Africans have for the future of their continent. The country is 
also emblematic of so many of the challenges facing Africa.

Stabilizing the DRC and fostering democracy are high priorities for 
American objectives in Africa. Given the country's size, efforts at 
political and economic reform, and wealth of natural resources, it is 
imperative that we support the Congolese Government to end more than a 
decade of warfare and several decades of unaccountable and 
nontransparent government.

For this reason, I attached an amendment to the 2006 Iraq 
supplemental appropriations bill, together with Senator Leahy, that 
provided $13.2 million to the Congo, including $8.2 million for 
military reform and $5 million to support free and fair elections. In 
December 2006, the Democratic Republic of the Congo Relief, Security, 
and Democracy Promotion Act passed into law. I was proud to have 
introduced this legislation, which authorized $52 million in U.S. 
assistance for the Congo, called for a special envoy to resolve ongoing 
violence, and urged the administration to strengthen the U.N. 
peacekeeping force.

Unfortunately, the administration has ignored the call by Congress to 
appoint a special envoy, and it has done little to strengthen the U.N. 
peacekeeping force which is working to stabilize the eastern part of 
the Congo.

Over the past several months, there have been reports of the 
mobilization of military forces in the eastern Congo. These reports are 
deeply disturbing. It is my hope that all Congolese leaders will 
recommit themselves to the search for peace in this part of the 
country. The pursuit of military solutions in the eastern part of the 
country will inevitably prove elusive and will only yield more 
bloodshed and misery for the civilian population.

The seriousness of the situation in eastern Congo was recently 
highlighted by a devastating report about the escalation of sexual 
violence against women in the region. For this reason, I wrote a letter 
to Secretary of State Rice earlier this month to express concern about 
the escalation of sexual violence in eastern DRC. Specifically, I asked 
the Secretary to respond to nine questions concerning steps that the 
administration is taking to help end the sexual violence and make the 
perpetrators accountable. To date, I have not received a reply to my 
letter. For the DRC's transition to democratic governance to be 
successful, the U.S. and its partners will have to intensify their 
commitment to work with the Congolese Government to enhance security, 
resolve conflicts, and spur the country's social and economic 
reconstruction.

Despite the success of last year's elections, the first in 40 years, 
the international community must be actively engaged in the country for 
the foreseeable future not only to bring an end to the conflict in the 
east but to assist in the emergence of institutions that will ensure 
accountability and economic development. It is a sobering fact that 
nearly 80 percent of the country's 56 million people live in absolute 
poverty and more than 70 percent are undernourished.

At the same time, the Kabila government must be encouraged to adopt 
inclusive and transparent political processes, involving opposition 
parties and civil society organizations. Moreover, I welcome the return 
of American investors to the DRC, to help develop and add value to the 
country's natural resources. It is imperative, however, that American 
businesses, as well as investors from every other country, especially 
China, commit to a zero tolerance for corruption while implementing 
effective measures to preserve the nation's environment.
