---
---

# MEMORIAL DAY
## `6af2b37c7f4dcd514b2eab07f506ec11`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, this Memorial Day Weekend, we remember 
the brave men and women who have given their lives in battle, and we 
also honor the veterans who served in prior engagements and the troops 
currently in uniform. Throughout our history, brave Americans have 
fought for freedom and democracy around the world, and today we 
remember them for their noble service. We honor our troops and veterans 
through our deeds and our words, reaffirming our commitment to support 
our troops and providing our veterans with the benefits they deserve.

Over the last few years, Congress has made historic gains for 
America's troops, veterans, and military families. Among these 
accomplishments include a New GI Bill to restore the promise of a full, 
four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, the 
largest increase in history for veterans' healthcare and other 
services, and significant strides in rebuilding the American military 
and strengthening other benefits for our troops and military families. 
This Memorial Day I pledge to continue this critical work to put 
America's troops and veterans first.

I know that more remains to be done. I will never stop fighting to 
ensure we do right by the men and women who serve our nation and defend 
our freedom. This Memorial Day, please join me in paying tribute to the 
brave men and women from Northwest Indiana, and all of America, who 
gave their lives in defense of freedom and democracy.
