# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `6b0af24716fe222b8afef26ff8c142b9`
`Mr. REYES — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, intelligence is critical to every decision affecting 
America's national security. Whether the challenge is learning the 
intentions of our Nation's adversaries or detecting the location of the 
next roadside IED in Iraq, America needs a well-resourced and well-
managed intelligence community.



This committee's primary responsibilities are to authorize funds for 
the intelligence agencies, to conduct vigorous oversight over their 
operations and to ensure that those operations are effective, legal and 
an appropriate use of taxpayer money.

Mr. Chairman, this afternoon I want to thank my colleague, Mr. 
Hoekstra, the gentleman from Michigan, for working with me in a 
bipartisan fashion to bring this bill to the floor. I also want to 
thank the staffs on both sides of the aisle for the great work that 
they have done to bring this bill to the floor today.

This year, as in years past, I have gone to the front lines to see 
our courageous intelligence professionals perform their jobs. They do 
this quietly, often without recognition or praise. Many spend time away 
from their families, often in very dangerous situations and under very 
dangerous conditions. This bill is the tangible sign of our support for 
the women and men of our America's intelligence agencies.

We're providing robust funding for our most important priorities 
including HUMINT, language capabilities and technical capabilities.

Our principal concern continues to be that al Qaeda is stronger today 
than at any time since September 11, 2001. Osama bin Laden and his key 
deputies remain at large. But al Qaeda is not the only terrorist group 
that has gained strength. Over the past 7 years, Hezbollah and Hamas 
have become more capable and even more determined. Dangerous states, 
including Syria, are pursuing nuclear capabilities. There is the 
possibility that one of these states, or even a rogue scientist, could 
transfer fissile material to a terrorist group. This must remain our 
foremost priority and our top concern.

This bill invests in people, our most precious resource. It adds 
funding to enhance human intelligence collection, not only for 
counterterrorism, but also for enduring and emerging global security 
issues, such as challenges that we face in Asia, Africa and Latin 
America, to name a few. This bill also contains a number of provisions 
that promote greater accountability, including the creation of a new 
Inspector General for the intelligence community.

Our bill will improve language capabilities in the intelligence 
community by adding funding for speakers of critical languages and 
requiring reports to


Congress to evaluate progress in this perennial problem area. The bill 
also mandates implementation of security clearance reform to make it 
easier for first and second generation Americans, many of whom have 
critical language skills, to serve in the intelligence community with 
proper clearances.

I mentioned earlier that one of the responsibilities of this 
committee is oversight. Yet this administration has repeatedly failed 
to comply with the National Security Act of 1947, which mandates that 
our committee be ''fully and currently informed'' of all the 
intelligence activities from the administration. This bill enhances 
congressional oversight by ensuring that the committee receives the 
information that it needs to perform its inherent oversight function.

Working on a bipartisan basis, our committee adopted two provisions 
to enhance reporting on intelligence activities to the full membership 
of the congressional intelligence committees. One provision would 
restrict 75 percent of all covert action funds until the full 
membership of the intelligence committees is briefed on all covert 
actions in effect as of April 24, 2008. A second provision would 
restrict the administration's attempts to brief only the chairman and 
ranking member and clarifies which information must be reported to our 
full committee.

This legislation also authorizes much of the requests for the 
foundational activities of the cybersecurity initiative, but it also 
expresses the committee's serious concerns about potential policy, 
implementation and governance issues. Our committee is also concerned 
that Congress does not have a comprehensive understanding of the 
magnitude of human and fiscal intelligence resources that have been 
devoted to Iraq, possibly at the expense of fighting the war on terror. 
H.R. 5959 requires a detailed report to our committee on this very 
topic.

The bill also addresses a number of long-term technical challenges in 
the intelligence community. It does so by adding significant resources 
to modernize signals intelligence capabilities and integrate them into 
the global enterprise.

Finally, Mr. Chairman, despite the size of the budget request, the 
administration did not include funds adequate to keep the U.S. 
intelligence community competitive in advanced technologies. Research 
and development funding is our Nation's investment in maintaining our 
edge in state of the art technologies. Our bill adds funds to four 
agencies specifically for that purpose. And the committee urges the 
executive branch to sustain, if not increase, this level of funding in 
future budgets.

In our markup, Mr. Chairman, the committee adopted a number of 
amendments offered by both the majority and minority members. One of 
those important amendments, crafted with bipartisan cooperation, will 
prevent CIA contractors from engaging in interrogations unless the 
Director of National Intelligence provides a waiver.

Our goal is to put this committee back in the authorization business 
by getting a bill to the President's desk that he can sign. To do that, 
we can't tackle every single important issue in this one bill. But if 
we fail to pass this bill, we risk eroding Congress' ability to 
strengthen and oversee intelligence operations that are vital to 
American national security.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.