# TRIBUTE TO SPECIALIST ERIC M. HOLKE, CALIFORNIA NATIONAL GUARD
## `6b13adf86d7588498fc87c65333c84cd`
`Mr. CALVERT — 7 September 2007`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a hero from my 
congressional district, California National Guardsman Eric Holke. Today 
I ask that the House of Representatives honor and remember this 
incredible young man who died in service to his country.

Eric grew up in Riverside and Crestline, California. He graduated 
from Rim of the World High School in 1995 and was interested in working 
with children. Before Eric was deployed in December, he worked with 
autistic children and was attending college in hopes of becoming a 
teacher. Specialist Holke had a strong sense of duty: he had served two 
tours previously, one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. During his tour 
in Iraq he was injured but dedicated himself to getting better so that 
he could reenlist, which he did. Specialist Holke was called up in 
December 2006 and on July 15, 2007 he was killed in action in Iraq.

In reading about Eric's life, I was impressed by his devotion to 
family, friends and children. He is survived by his wife Cassidhe and 
son Steven. Our community has lost a great man and Cassidhe and Steven 
have lost a wonderful husband and father.

As we look at the incredibly rich military history of our country we 
realize that this history is comprised of men, just like Eric, who 
bravely fought for the ideals of freedom and democracy. Each story is 
unique and humbling for those of us who, far from the dangers they have 
faced, live our lives in relative comfort and ease. The day the Holke 
family had to lay Eric to rest was probably the hardest moment the 
family has ever faced and my thoughts, prayers and deepest gratitude 
for their sacrifice goes out to them. There are no words that can 
relieve their pain and what words I offer only begin to convey my deep 
respect and highest appreciation.

Specialist Holke's wife, son, relatives and friends have given a part 
of themselves in the loss of their loved one and I hope they know that 
Specialist Holke, the goodness he brought to this world and the 
sacrifice he has made, will be remembered.



