---
---

# FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `6b13149d38e3de2a7acda03baac1c981`
`Mr. REID — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, we have tried to work through this process, 
and it appears quite clear at this stage, on this bill, we are not 
going to be able to do that. As everyone knows, we are in the last 
hours, days, certainly, of this first year of this session of Congress, 
and we have to take care of the domestic spending, we have the debate 
coming up on funding for the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, the 
supplemental, and I think it is very clear we are not going to be able 
to move into these amendments.

We have had a number of suggestions by a number of different people 
how we can move through this legislation, and it appears quite clear at 
this stage that we can't. I have spoken to a number of the Senators, 
and everyone feels it would be in the best interest of the Senate that 
we take a look at this when we come back after the first of the year 
and resume this. I have spoken to, for example, Senator Dodd, a few 
minutes ago, and he and I have talked about ways to move forward--of 
course, Senator Dodd can always speak for himself--but my feeling, 
after having visited with him, is we would be better off moving into 
this sometime after we come back after the holiday recess, after the 
adjournment sine die of this year of the Congress.

So unless something untoward appears, which I doubt extremely 
seriously, this is what we will do on FISA; that is, we will take it 
back up when we return in January.