---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `6b166362699cd5f0ccb3c24ff8d04a63`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I have great respect for the 
majority leader, and he is very eloquent at the microphone, but he 
forgot to mention a couple of things that, I think, the American people 
would like to know.

For instance, 80 percent of this bill is helping the troops, but this 
is a war supplemental; 100 percent should be helping our troops. In 
addition to that, he did not mention that this is a 22 percent 
reduction from what was in the supplemental last year, so we're 
actually cutting funding to the troops by 22 percent over what we did 
last year, and we're just expanding our operation into Afghanistan. So 
I think that the people ought to really get the whole picture. The 
whole picture is that this is a war supplemental, and it's being cut 
over what we spent last year for the same type of legislation.

Now, he mentioned the International Monetary Fund, the $5 billion for 
that. This is a war supplemental. This is not an IMF bill. It's going 
to create $108 billion in additional loaning capability by the IMF. A 
few of the countries that will benefit from this with Special Drawing 
Rights are people who are not our friends--like Venezuela, Mr. Chavez 
down there; like Iran, a terrorist state; Yemen; Syria; Zimbabwe; and 
Burma.

So I would just like to say--and I would never admonish the majority 
leader, because he is a great man, and I really like him--let's get all 
of the facts out there and not just part of them.