---
---

# WILLIAM ORTON LAW LIBRARY IMPROVEMENT AND MODERNIZATION ACT
## `6b21fe9ded50fa71a0938365f61f75d9`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California — 28 July 2009`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, this bill is named after William Orton, a Member of 
the United States House of Representatives from Utah's Third 
Congressional District from 1991 to 1997. Bill passed away


in April of this year. Bill was a tireless advocate for the Law 
Library, and this legislation is a fitting way to honor his memory.

The Law Library of Congress maintains a unique and world-renowned 
collection. This bill will help ensure that the Law Library will have 
the resources needed to maintain and expand its collections while at 
the same time modernizing its systems. The act authorizes, number one, 
$3.5 million for maintaining and administering the operations of the 
Law Library, including the cataloging of the collections of the Law 
Library; two, a line item for the Law Library to ensure the autonomy 
and ability to improve the Law Library; and, three, the creation of the 
William Orton Program to provide enhanced or special services and 
programs for the Library and otherwise support the mission of the Law 
Library.

The Library may carry out the program through agreements and 
partnerships entered into with other government and private entities, 
including the American Association of Law Libraries and the American 
Bar Association. Donations of funds and in-kind contributions in 
support of the program may be accepted, and it requires an annual 
report.

Finally, H.R. 2728 was amended by the House Administration Committee; 
and during markup, we made a change in the name of the Law Library to 
the National Law Library to increase the role and status of the Law 
Library. This bill authorizes to be appropriated for the program an 
amount equal to 40 percent of the amount of the donations accepted by 
the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board in support of the program. 
This is a 60/40 private-public split. The Law Library is an invaluable 
resource both to the Congress and the Nation, and we have an obligation 
to future generations to provide for its continuation through the 
establishment of the William Orton Program.

Some of the organizations that are supporting this bill include the 
American Bar Association, the American Association of Law Libraries, 
and the Northern California Association of Law Libraries.

Now, why is this bill important to the point that myself and my 
colleague from California (Mr. Daniel E. Lungren) have actually spent 
several years working on this? Not only is this collection unique in 
the United States and important to the rule of law in the United 
States; this collection is important to the world. And I will give you 
an example why. When the Taliban was finally expelled from government 
in Afghanistan, the people of Afghanistan looked to reinstitute the 
rule of law; and the only place where Afghani law could be found was in 
the Law Library at the Library of Congress in the United States. It was 
through that collection that we were able to help in that civil way in 
the reinstitution of the rule of law.

I would just like to say one further word about the late Bill Orton. 
After he left the Congress, he went back into private practice, but he 
always volunteered his time. He spent countless hours with the bar 
association and others, coming and trying to help the Law Library.

He understood that it wasn't flashy, but it was important. Actually, 
that's just like Bill, a guy who wasn't flashy but who was serious and 
did important things for his country. I can remember sitting on this 
floor next to then-Congressman Bill Orton, discussing the issues of the 
day while he had his young son Will sitting on his lap. Many times 
during State of the Union speeches, young Will would be there with his 
dad.

I hope that in addition to doing these good things through passing 
this bill that Will and the rest of his family can take satisfaction 
that Bill Orton's name will forever be associated with this Law 
Library, and we will always be in his debt for what he has done.

I reserve the balance of my time.