---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6b2f2dfef7d7ca7e93d068d8fbaf5f38`
`Mr. BOND â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, the intelligence community said withdrawing 
forces before we can provide security will result in chaos: more 
killing among Iraqis, an al-Qaida safe haven, and a possible regionwide 
declaration of war.

We need a political solution in Iraq, not in Washington, to allow the 
leaders in the national unity government to come together, but to get 
that, we need to repel the terrorists, we need to rebuild the Iraqi 
security forces. What won't help General Petraeus is direction from 
armchair generals in Congress.

What I would say to those who want to direct the war is: If you want 
to run it, you will own it. When a newly revitalized al-Qaida carries 
out a renewed 9/11 scale attack, you will own that one, too.

Mr. President, hundreds of thousands of soldiers and their families 
at home will remember that. I suggest we support our troops.

As my colleagues know, I hail proudly from the Show-Me-State.

If all of the rhetoric in Washington about supporting the troops is 
true and I suspect it is, then I suggest that the Congress show our 
troops that we do support them, get them the funds and give them a 
chance to succeed.

Comments like ''The war is lost'' do not help our troops, but they do 
embolden the enemy.

Our actions should inspire our troops and the millions of Iraqi 
citizens who actually trust that Americans will not embrace defeat.

Our action should not be one that inspires al-Qaida and the murderous 
insurgents.

We should not pass legislation that provides our enemy the clear path 
to their victory, a victory which some in this body have already 
awarded them.