---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2642,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6b38bdb084e98a50b3ac3029f1eaf65e`
`Mr. INSLEE — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. INSLEE. Madam Speaker, I support this rule, in part, because it 
allows Congress to finally rein in an out-of-control policy by the 
administration in Iraq.

For too long our Congress has stood by while an administration has 
pursued a course in Iraq fraught with peril, with no plan for its 
conclusion, with no plan for resolution, with no meaningful plan for 
international involvement, to end this problem in Iraq. While Congress 
has not reined in this administration, the American people have been 
raising a hue and cry for relief from this negligent lack of plan in 
Iraq.

I came across, a few weeks ago, some work that some citizens had done 
to provide an exit strategy from Iraq. This is a plan called A 
Responsible Plan to End the War in Iraq. It was organized by a group of 
citizens, a woman from Carnation, Washington, named Darcy Burner. It is 
endorsed by considerable military thinking, endorsed by Major General 
Paul Eaton, U.S. Army, retired, former Security Transition Commanding 
General in Iraq; Dr. Lawrence Korb, a former Assistant Secretary of 
Defense in the Reagan administration; Brigadier General John Johns, 
specialist in counterinsurgency and nation-building; Captain Larry 
Seaquist, U.S. Navy, retired, former commander of the USS Iowa and 
Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Policy Planning.

Here is a plan that has considerable parallels to the amendment we 
will be allowed to offer to finally having some responsible plan to end 
the war in Iraq. A meaningful timetable, a statement about permanent 
bases, meaningful requirements for not overburdening our military. It's 
time, simply, for Congress to act. This rule allows us to do so. We 
should pass it.