---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6b49d64f6003da544d3263e7f3d19525`
`Mr. ROYCE — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROYCE. I will begin my remarks by saying that I hope that these 3 
days of debate, Mr. Speaker, are characterized by civility and respect. 
Without doubt, this is the most difficult issue that we will confront 
in this Congress.

Iraq is terribly complex. The stakes for our national security are 
great, and the sacrifice in American lives and the loss of Iraqi lives 
have been very painful.

This is a war unlike any other we have fought, and it has been 
vexing. All of us, supporters and opponents of this resolution alike, 
Republicans and Democrats, all Americans, have a vital interest in our 
Nation succeeding in helping to build a stable Iraq and defeating 
Islamist terrorism. That is the challenge of our time.

As we have heard, mistakes have been made. There is no doubt about 
that. I have been dismayed by some of them: the lethargy in training 
Iraqi troops, the inability to meter oil and protect civilian 
infrastructure. But we can't allow this to cloud our strategic 
judgments.

To my mind, this resolution, indeed our struggle in Iraq, can be 
boiled down to two questions: Are Iraq and the global struggle against 
Islamist terrorism separable? And is Iraq hopeless? The answer to both 
questions is no, which leads me to a ''no'' on this resolution.

The rationale for this war has changed, whether we like it or not. We 
are now fighting for stability and moderation against the Islamist 
terrorism that is now host in Iraq.

Our Civil War didn't start out as a battle against slavery. It was a 
fight to save the Union.

We started out fighting Saddam and to stop what the majority of this 
House believed was his weapons of mass destruction program. We are now 
fighting Islamist terrorism. It is a different and more daunting fight, 
but the consequences of our success or failure are no less critical 
because the stakes of this battle have changed.

Let there be no doubt about this: Defeat in Iraq will be a terrible 
blow to our national security. It will psychologically boost the 
Islamist terrorists who we are fighting there and elsewhere.

The bipartisan Iraq Study Group reported Ayman al-Zawahiri, deputy to 
Osama bin Laden, has declared Iraq a focus for al Qaeda. That 
declaration is more than words.

While not all fighters in Iraq are jihadists, many are. Some have 
wrongly denied that here on the House floor today. Jihadists are coming 
from all over the world. The report reads, ''They will seek to expel 
the Americans and then spread the jihad wave to the secular countries 
neighboring Iraq.'' Chaos in Iraq will allow for more terrorist safe 
havens there.

The 9/11 Commission stated that every policy decision we make needs 
to be seen through the lens of terrorist sanctuaries. My colleagues, I 
would ask if we are doing that.

And that report stated that if Iraq becomes a failed state, it will 
go to the top of the list of places that are breeding grounds for 
attacks against Americans abroad.

We saw what happened when Afghanistan descended into chaos. Al Qaeda 
emerged out of the ruin to strike America on 9/11. That is the type of 
threat we are facing today, which will be supercharged if Iraq fails.

We have to confront the potential disaster scenario in the region 
that U.S. failure in Iraq could bring, which would be worsening strife 
which could engulf the entire region, sparking a wider war in this 
resource-rich area.

Saudis have warned that they are prepared to aid Sunni militias. 
Jordan could move troops into Iraq's western desert to serve as a 
buffer. The Turks are increasingly worried about the independent 
Kurdish movement. Iran could move to secure the oil fields to the 
south.

In describing the consequences of continued decline in Iraq, the Iraq 
Study Group wrote, ''Such a broader sectarian conflict could open a 
Pandora's box of problems, including the radicalization of populations, 
mass movement of populations, and regime changes that might take 
decades to play out.''

This is the powder keg that is Iraq today. The status quo is nasty. 
But the consequences of failure, while unpredictable, is far worse.

So to the second question: Is Iraq hopeless? I can understand why 
many Americans may feel that way. Every day there are horrific car 
bombings, the sectarian violence has intensified. We will hear many 
assessments that Iraq is hopeless in this debate.

No one is going to argue that success is guaranteed. But arguments 
that we have no chance of bringing stability on the ground in Iraq are 
also extreme arguments.

Are the forces of chaos so strong, and are the forces of stability 
and moderation so weak as to doom with certainty our efforts?

But I have spoken with too many people in the field, people with some 
optimism, that I am not ready to conclude that with certainty. And I 
don't think this House should reach that conclusion.



And that is my read of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group which, while 
recognizing the grave challenges, spoke of improving the process for 
success. The fact that the consequences of our defeat would be so great 
also leads me to persist.

Let's consider more about the implications of defeat. Look at 
neighboring Iran. Most Americans remember the 1979 Iranian takeover of 
our embassy in Tehran. That led to 444 days of captivity for our men 
and women. Unfortunately, relations with Iran have only worsened since. 
Iran today is a state sponsor of terrorism. It aids Hezbollah, and it 
backed this terrorist group's war on Israel this summer. With Iranian 
backing, Hezbollah is the A Team of terrorism, running highly 
sophisticated operatives worldwide, including here.

Some terrorism experts consider Hezbollah to be a more challenging 
foe than al Qaeda. Iran is backing the insurgents fighting our men and 
women in Iraq. Iran is also storming ahead with a nuclear weapons 
program.

The embassy takeover was a big morale boost for Islamist terrorists; 
some trace the beginning of Islamist terrorism to that embassy 
takeover. The shattering of the Iraqi state in our hands would be that 
1979 morale boost magnified. It would also prove the way for tremendous 
Iranian influence in the region.

We must face our responsibility to the Iraqi people. Yes, we have 
given them 4 years to come together; it has been beyond frustration 
that they haven't. Tens of thousands of Iraqis have died during this 
time. What happens if we leave or operate without the manpower our 
military leadership says it needs? I don't think anyone believes that 
the carnage won't be several times what we have seen.

We often hear calls to intervene in countries for humanitarian 
reasons. Some would like our military to go to Darfur in Sudan. Maybe 
we should take decisive military actions to stop that genocide, but 
what about trying to finish a job where we have already made a huge 
military commitment, knowing full well that Iraq's withdrawal would 
lead to a brutal humanitarian crisis?

We also often hear from some about how unpopular our country is 
worldwide. This is said to greatly harm our influence and interest. And 
there is truth to that. Just wait if our withdrawal precipitates a 
horrific scale of ethnic cleansing. Is that the Iraqi legacy we want? I 
am not ready to concede the inevitability of this.

It is very important that our Nation be united. Our success depends 
upon it.


We need to be sowing discord among the enemy, not ourselves. We have 
had successes against Islamist terrorism worldwide.

This resolution states that Congress disapproves of the January 
decision of the President to deploy more troops to Iraq. The bipartisan 
Iraq Study Group panel, but one month earlier, said it could support a 
short-term redeployment of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad. 
This resolution goes in the opposite direction.

I have heard the argument about why this resolution isn't a retreat, 
but it is a nonbinding rebuke of the President's tactics, that it 
doesn't cut off funding. That may be the case on paper, but the 
symbolism is far greater. I don't see how opposing our professional 
military's call for more troops at this pivotal time is anything but a 
signal of permanent retreat. It is also congressional micromanagement.

The war is horrible. The easy thing would be to just say out. But we 
can't wish away the Islamist terrorists will take great strength from 
our defeat. That is what they are saying. These individuals in groups 
are as persistent as they are brutal. They must be fought and defeated. 
So let's not give these forces a win on the floor of the U.S. House.

I ask my colleagues to think through these implications and vote down 
this resolution