# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `6b4ab608ab17b779e72dcfdf34385ba8`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota â€” 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman from Iowa for yielding.

And, Madam Speaker, I think it's critical to point out that the 
gentleman from Iowa has been a passionate voice for civil liberties, 
has been a passionate voice of making sure this country adheres to that 
great tradition that so embodies each and every one of us. And I think 
it's important to understand that Mr. Braley from Iowa comes from a 
family that has served this Nation proudly. He's got a grandfather that 
fought on the sands of Iwo Jima. And in bringing this fight and 
understanding what needs to be done to protect our soldiers in this 
conflict and future conflicts, he's brought a very, very important 
point out about the President's disregard in vetoing the Department of 
Defense authorization bill. And I would have to say his voice has been 
somewhat lone in the wilderness on this. I don't hear the outrage that 
should be there. So I thank the gentleman for giving me the opportunity 
to stand with him tonight to bring this important issue forward.

I spent the last 9 days prior to this week traveling throughout Iraq 
and Afghanistan, talking to our soldiers, talking to our airmen, 
talking to our Marines, talking to our sailors, and getting a feel for 
how things were going as far as how their medical care was going and 
those types of things. And without fail every single one of these 
individuals with high morale and a pride in what they are doing for 
their Nation did bring up the question and asked me, Why is our raise 
being held up? Why can't Congress get the simplest thing done to move 
forward a raise? And I ask this and in talking to them and talking to 
other Americans, Madam Speaker, the question comes, and we hear it time 
and time again, why can't Congress get along? Why can't Congress get 
things done? And I think Mr. Braley from Iowa has highlighted exactly 
what it is and exactly what we are up against.

This President chose to hold our warriors hostage their pay raise. 
And the President may not think 3/1/2/ percent is much. I'm sure it's 
nothing to him. What I can tell you is that it's a lot to a family back 
home. It's a lot when the mother and father are deployed down range or 
in a war zone. It's a lot to have that 3/1/2/ percent given. But the 
President didn't concern himself with that, all the good things that 
Mr. Braley talked about that was in the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, a very important one was the ability of our POWs, 
those that fought so bravely to make claims and make amends according 
to law, according to international law, to amend what had been done to 
them.

Now, the President tells us we'll get frivolous lawsuits out of this. 
We will hamper Iraq's fledgling government's ability to rebuild itself.

Now, there are several big fallacies in that statement. The first is 
the assumption that the fledgling government is doing anything to get 
itself back and rebuilding. And I offer the fact that Iraq said last 
year they would put in $10 billion of their own money to put into 
reconstruction. An audit at the end of last year indicated they spent 
4.4 percent of that. Spent it. It doesn't necessarily mean that it went 
to reconstruction, which basically says 95.6 percent never made it out 
of the bureaucracy, never made it to the Iraqi people, never did any of 
that.