# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `6b6238361f8934348d82578bbee6c330`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN â€” 17 December 2010`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Thank you very much, Mr. President.

I see both the ranking member and the chairman of the committee on 
the floor. I wish to say a few words about both of them and the good 
name they give to bipartisanship. Both of them see how much of 
America's destiny is wrapped up in this treaty and how nuclear weapons 
become a bane of existence because of their size, because of their 
number, and because of this inexorable concern that they fall into the 
wrong hands somehow, some way, someday.

I am one of the few Members of this Senate who is old enough to have 
seen the bombs go off in Nagasaki and Hiroshima. I know the devastation 
that a 15- and 21-kiloton bomb can do. These bombs today are five times 
the size plus, and they can eradicate huge areas. If you put multiple 
warheads on them, the destruction is inestimable.

Mr. President, what is interesting to me about this debate is the 
fact that the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty was approved by 
a vote of 93 to 5, the 1991 START agreement was approved by a vote of 9 
to 6, and the 2002 Moscow Treaty was approved by a vote of 95 to 0. As 
the chairman of the committee, the distinguished Senator from 
Massachusetts, has pointed out time and time again on this floor, those 
treaties received less deliberation than is being given to this treaty. 
The relationship between the United States and Russia today is better 
today than was the relationship when previous treaties were ratified. 
And the New START treaty we are debating is a fairly modest measure. So 
I hope it will receive a strong vote for ratification.

Now, for my remarks. I come here as chairman of the Intelligence 
Committee to address comments that have been made on the other side of 
the aisle about this treaty, particularly as those comments relate to 
monitoring provisions. Let me just put out the bona fides.

The Intelligence Committee has studied the June 2010 National 
Intelligence Estimate on the intelligence community's ability to 
monitor this treaty. We had a hearing. We submitted more than 70 
questions for the record. We received detailed responses from the 
intelligence community. Committee members and very highly technical, 
proficient committee staff participated in more than a dozen meetings 
and briefings on a range of issues concerning the treaty, focusing on 
the intelligence monitoring and collection aspects.

The conclusion is on my part that the intelligence community can, in 
fact, effectively monitor Russian activities under this treaty.

I would also like to say to all Senators I have just reviewed a new 
intelligence assessment from the CIA dated yesterday. It analyzes the 
effect of having New START's monitoring provisions in place and the 
loss on intelligence if the treaty is not ratified. I can't discuss the 
contents of the assessment on the Senate floor, but the report is 
available to all Senators. It is available through the Intelligence 
Committee, and Members are welcome to review this report and other 
documents, including the National Intelligence Estimate, in our offices 
in room 211 in the Hart Building.

Let me now describe the ways in which this treaty enhances our 
Nation's intelligence capabilities. This has been the lens through 
which the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has viewed the 
treaty, and I believe the arguments are strongly positive and 
persuasive.

First, the intelligence community can carry out its responsibility to 
monitor Russian activities under the treaty effectively.

Second, this treaty, when it enters into force, will benefit 
intelligence collection and analysis.

The U.S. intelligence community will use these treaty provisions and 
other independent tools that we have outside of the treaty, such as the 
use of national technical means--for example, our satellites--to 
collect information on Russian forces and whether Russia is complying 
with the treaty's terms.

The treaty provisions include on-the-ground inspections of Russian 
nuclear facilities and bases--18 a year. There is going to be an 
amendment, I gather, to increase that. I will get to that later in my 
remarks. Second, regular exchanges on data on the warhead and missile 
production and locations. Third, unique identifiers--a distinct 
alphanumeric code for each missile and heavy bomber for tracking 
purposes. I reviewed some of that in intelligence reports this morning. 
A ban on blocking national technical means from collecting information 
on strategic forces, and other measures that I am going to go into.

Without the strong monitoring and verification measures provided for 
in this treaty, we will know less--not more--about the number, size, 
location, and deployment status of Russian nuclear warheads. That is a 
fact.

I think most of you know General Chilton, the Commander of the U.S. 
Strategic Command, who knows a great deal about all of this. He has 
said this:




 Without New START, we would rapidly lose insight into 


 Russian nuclear strategic force developments and activities, 


 and our force modernization planning and hedging strategy 


 would be more complex and more costly. Without such a regime, 


 we would unfortunately be left to use worse-case analyses 


 regarding our own force requirements.


Think about that. Let me be clear. That is what a ''no'' vote means 
on this treaty.

Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin made the same point earlier 
this month. He said that if the United States doesn't ratify the 
treaty, Russia will have to respond, including augmentation of its 
stockpile.

That is what voting ''no'' on this treaty does.

These monitoring provisions are key, as are the trust and 
transparency they bring, and the only way to get to these provisions is 
through ratification.

In fact, we have not had any inspections, or other monitoring tools, 
for over 1 year, since the original START treaty expired; so, today, we 
have less insight into any new Russian weapons and delivery systems 
that might be entering their force. That, too, is a fact.

Thirteen months ago, American officials wrapped up a 2-day inspection 
of a Russian strategic missile base at Teykovo, 130 miles northeast of 
Moscow, where mobile SS-25 intercontinental ballistic missiles were 
deployed.

Twelve days later, their Russian counterparts wrapped up a 2-day 
inspection at Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri, home to a strategic 
bomb wing.

Since then, nothing. Since those two inspections--one in Russia and 
one in the United States--we have essentially gone black on any 
monitoring, inspection, data exchanges, telemetry, and notification 
allowed by the old START treaty.

Let me describe the monitoring provisions in this treaty now, because 
many of them are similar to the original START treaty's provisions.

No. 1, the treaty commits the United States and Russia ''not to 
interfere with the national technical means of verification of the 
other party.'' That means not to interfere with our satellites and 
''not to use concealment measures that impede verification.''

This means that Russia agrees not to block our satellite observations 
of their launchers or their testing. Without this treaty, Russia could 
take steps to deny or block our ability to collect information on their 
forces. And there are ways this can be done. Let me make clear that, 
absent this treaty, Russia could try and perhaps block our satellites.

To be clear, national technical means are an important way of 
identifying some of Russia's activities in deploying and deploying its 
nuclear forces. However, while I can't be specific here, there are some 
very important questions that simply cannot be answered through 
national technical means alone.

I have also reviewed those this morning, and those are available if a 
Member wants to know exactly what I mean by this. They can go to room 
211 in the Hart Building, and members of the intelligence staff can 
inform them exactly what this means.

That is where other provisions of this treaty--including inspections, 
data exchanges, unique identifiers--come into play. Without them, we 
are limited in our understanding.

So believe me, this is a big problem for our intelligence agencies.

The second provision in New START on monitoring is a requirement that 
Russia provide the United States with regular data notifications. This 
includes information on the production


of any and all new strategic missiles, the loading of warheads onto 
those missiles, and the location to which strategic forces are 
deployed.

Under START, similar notifications were vital to our understanding. 
In fact, the notification provisions under New START are actually 
stronger than those in the old START agreement, including a requirement 
that Russia inform the United States when a missile or warhead moves in 
or out of deployed status.

Third, New START restores our ability to conduct on-the-ground 
inspections. There are none of them going on today, and none have been 
going on for over a year. New START allows for 10 so-called ''type 
one'' onsite inspections of Russian ICBMs, SLBMs, and bomber bases a 
year.

The protocols for these type one inspections were written by U.S. 
negotiators with years of inspection experience under the original 
START treaty. The day before yesterday, I went over the credentials of 
our negotiating team in Geneva, and many of them have done onsite 
inspections. So they know what they need to look for, and they provided 
those guarantees in this treaty. This is how some of it works.

First, U.S. inspectors choose what base they wish to inspect. It is 
our choice, not the Russians' choice. Russia is restricted from moving 
missiles, launchers, and bombers away from that base.

Then, when the inspectors arrive, they are given a full briefing from 
the Russians. That includes the number of deployed and nondeployed 
missile launchers or bombers at the base, the number of warheads loaded 
on each bomber and--and this is important--the number of reentry 
vehicles on each ICBM or SLBM.

So you can pick your base, go to it, get the briefing. These missiles 
are all coded with unique identifiers, so you can do your inspection, 
and you know what you are looking at.

Third, the inspectors choose what they want to inspect. At an ICBM 
base, the inspectors choose a deployed ICBM for inspection, one they 
want to inspect. At a submarine base, they choose an SLBM. If there are 
any nondeployed launchers, ones not carrying missiles, the inspectors 
can pick one of those for inspection as well. At air bases, the 
inspectors can choose up to three bombers for inspection.

Fourth, the actual inspection occurs, with U.S. personnel verifying 
the number of warheads on the missiles, or on the bombers chosen. As I 
mentioned earlier, each missile and bomber is coded with a specific 
code, both numerically and alphabetically, so you know what you have 
chosen and where it's been before.

Under this framework, our inspectors are provided comprehensive 
information from the Russian briefers. They are able to choose 
themselves how they want to verify that this information is correct. 
And there are ways of doing that to verify.

The treaty also provides for an additional eight inspections a year 
of nondeployed warheads and facilities where Russia converts or 
eliminates nuclear arms.

Some people have commented that the number of inspections under New 
START--that is, the total of 18 that I just described--is smaller than 
the 28 under the previous START treaty, and that is true. But it is 
also true that there are half as many Russian facilities to inspect 
than there were in 1991, when START was signed. I just looked at a map 
this morning of these Russian bases, of the silo locations, of the 
bombers, of the submarine pens. The numbers are dramatically smaller 
than at the end of the Cold War, when the first START treaty was 
signed.

These inspections should suffice, because the numbers are so down.

In addition, inspections under New START are designed to cover more 
topics than inspections under the prior START agreement.

In testimony from the Director of the Defense Threat Reduction 
Agency, called in Washington-ese ''DTRA,'' Kenneth Myers, the agency 
doing these inspections, said:




 Type one inspections will be more demanding on both the 


 DTRA and site personnel, as it combines the main part of what 


 were formerly two separate inspections under START into a 


 single, lengthier inspection.


So, whereas, you go from 28 down to 18, and 10 type one inspections, 
you can take more time and they are much more comprehensive.

Some of my colleagues who question this treaty have raised a couple 
of problems with the monitoring provisions. Let me address a couple of 
them now.

First, under START, United States officials had a permanent presence 
at the Russian missile production facility at Votkinsk.

Inspectors could watch as missiles left the plant to be shipped to 
various parts of the country. New START does not include this 
provision. In fact, the Bush administration had taken the provision off 
the table in its negotiations with the Russians prior to leaving 
office.

New START does, however, require Russia to mark all missiles, as I 
have been saying, with numeric and alphabetic codes--with these unique 
identifiers, so that their location can be tracked and their deployment 
status tracked over the lifetime of the treaty.

The treaty also requires Russia to notify us at least 48 hours before 
a missile leaves a plant. So we will still have information about 
missile deployment and production.

Our inspectors and other nuclear experts have testified that these 
provisions are, in fact, sufficient. Now, look, I appreciate that every 
one of us does our due diligence. But let me tell you, there is nothing 
like the view of a former inspector.

There is nothing like the view of people who have actually done this 
work. These are the people who were involved in the negotiation. There 
is nothing like the recommendation of the entire top command of our 
strategic forces, the civilian leadership, and the top officials of our 
intelligence community, all of whom are for this treaty.

We listen to our military, it seems to me, on views that affect the 
security of this Nation. We should with respect to this treaty. I have 
not seen a single warrior come forward--who is in the top command--who 
has said we should not endorse this treaty. I think that is 
significant. Instead, dozens have come forward to point out how 
important this treaty is.

START required the United States and Russia to exchange technical 
data from missile tests. That is known as telemetry. It required that 
you release it to each other but not to other countries. That telemetry 
allows each side to calculate things, such as how many warheads a 
missile could carry. This was important as the START treaty attributed 
warheads to missiles. If a Russian missile could carry 10 reentry 
vehicles, the treaty counted it as having 10 warheads. Information 
obtained through telemetry was, therefore, important to determine the 
capabilities of each delivery system.

New START, however, does away with these attribution rules and counts 
the actual number of warheads deployed on missiles. No more guessing 
whether a Russian missile is carrying one or eight warheads. With this 
change, we don't need precise calculations on the capability of Russian 
missiles in order to tell whether Russia is complying with the treaty's 
terms, so telemetry is not as necessary to monitor compliance with New 
START.

Nonetheless, because this came up in the negotiations, as a gesture 
to transparency, the treaty allows for the exchange of telemetry, 
between our two countries only, up to five times a year if both sides 
agree to do so.

In fact, it should be pointed out that if the treaty included a 
broader requirement to exchange telemetry, the United States might have 
to share information on interceptors for missile defense, which the 
Department of Defense has not agreed to do.

Third, there has been a concern raised about Russian breakout 
capability--a fear that Russia may one day decide to secretly deploy 
more warheads than the treaty would allow or to secretly build a vast 
stockpile that could be quickly put into its deployed force. I do not 
see this as a credible concern. Here is why.

According to public figures, Russian strategic forces are already 
under or close to the limits prescribed by New START. They have been 
decreasing over the past decade, not just now but for a long time. 
There are many reasons for this, but I think it is incontrovertible 
that is fact.

So the concern about a breakout is a concern that Russia would 
suddenly decide that it wants to reverse what has


been a 10-year trend and deploy more weapons than it currently believes 
are necessary for its security. They would also have to decide to do 
this secretly, with a significant risk of being caught.

Because of the monitoring provisions, the inspections, our national 
technical means, and other ways we have to track Russian nuclear 
activities, I think Moscow would have a serious disincentive to do 
that. Moreover, instead of developing a breakout capability, Russia 
could decide, instead, to simply withdraw from the treaty, just as the 
United States did when President Bush withdrew from the antiballistic 
missile treaty.

Finally, even in the event that Russia did violate the treaty and 
pursue a breakout capability, our nuclear capabilities are more than 
sufficient to continue to deter Russia and to provide assurances to our 
allies.

Mr. President, the bottom line is that the intelligence community can 
effectively monitor this treaty. If you vote no, you are voting against 
these monitoring provisions.

The second question I raised at the beginning of my remarks that is 
relevant to New START is whether ratifying the treaty actually enhances 
our intelligence collection and analysis. This is above and beyond the 
question of whether the intelligence community will be able to fulfill 
its responsibility to monitor Russian compliance with the treaty's 
terms.

Again, I am unable to go into the specifics, but the clear answer to 
this question is yes. The ability to conduct inspections, receive 
notifications, enter into continuing discussions with the Russians over 
the lifetime of the treaty will provide us with information and 
understanding of Russian strategic forces that we will not have without 
the treaty. If you vote no, we will not have it.

The intelligence community will need to collect information about 
Russian nuclear weapons and intentions with or without New START, just 
as it has since the beginning of the Cold War. But absent the 
inspectors' boots on the grounds--and that is what is at risk here--the 
intelligence community will need to rely on other methods.

Put even more simply, the Nation's top intelligence official, 
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, has said he thinks 
''the earlier, the sooner, the better'' that this treaty is ratified. 
''We're better off with it.''

You know, I don't think I need to tell this body what is at stake in 
terms of our relationship with Russia. The Russian Federation is not 
the Soviet Union, and this is an important reform vehicle of a new, 
young Russian President who wants to enter into a much more cooperative 
and transparent time with our country.

Russia has been of help to our country, letting our equipment go 
through Russian land into Afghanistan when Pakistan has blocked passage 
and in terms of refusing to sell a missile defense system to Iran that 
it had previously agreed to provide.

I think what this projects to the world as a whole is very important 
in this world of asymmetric warfare. What it projects is that the 
United States and the Russian Federation are willing to stand together. 
I think the gesture of that standing together that is envisioned in the 
enhanced cooperation of this treaty should never be underestimated.

Members, we need all of the major powers to come together in this new 
world of asymmetric warfare in which we are engaged, and most likely 
will be engaged for a long period of time. So I very much hope that the 
votes are there for ratification.

Let me end with this: During the 15-year lifespan of the first START 
agreement, the United States conducted 659 inspections of Russian 
nuclear facilities, and Russia conducted 481 inspections of our 
facilities. Again, it has been more than a year since American 
inspectors were at a Russian nuclear facility. We have been in the dark 
for 1 year. It is time to bring the light of New START to bear.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.