# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6b6c1829a7168eba3c074baae7f206b4`
`Mr. LoBIONDO — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. LoBIONDO. Mr. Oberstar, thank you very much. The circumstances 
are difficult.

Mr. Speaker, it is more than 5 years that we are into the global war 
on terror. Since the horrific attacks to our country on September 11, 
we are fighting a faceless enemy, an unbelievably ruthless enemy, an 
enemy who is undeterred in their hatreds for our freedoms and our way 
of life.

We must remain strong in our resolve to defeat the enemy, and it is 
no accident that our Nation has not been attacked since September 11. 
It is not because the enemy and its supporters have not wanted to bring 
destruction to America, it is because we as Americans have remained 
committed to the defense of our homeland.

It is because we have remained vigilant in working with our 
international partners to prevent terrorists from being successful, and 
it is mostly because of our brave men and women in uniform, who have 
taken the fight to the enemy. Likewise, our commitment to the troops on 
the battlefield, whether in Iraq or Afghanistan, or wherever the global 
war on terror may take our brave young men and women, must run deep. 
Our commitment must include that our soldiers have all the necessary 
equipment and armor that they need.

Mr. Speaker, I come to the well, to the podium today very troubled. 
For 3 days, the majority will have us debating the very critical issue 
of the war in Iraq, but this debate is really without real substance.

This debate is without an alternative strategy that many of us 
acknowledge we desperately need to be discussing. This debate will not 
bring about one positive change for our men and women in harm's way, 
and will rather likely result in the wrong message to many of our 
soldiers, our partners and, avoidably, the enemy.

I believe this debate is dividing the Congress. I believe this debate 
is dividing the American people and sending the wrong message to our 
soldiers in the field, who may question our unwavering support on their 
behalf. I continue to be awe struck and proud of the valor of our 
servicemen and -women of Iraq. However, this debate sends a mixed 
message to them, their families, and the families of those who were 
lost in the global war on terror. We could have, and we should have had 
a debate that sends a strong message to support our troops in their 
commitment, but the majority has chosen against us.

While I do not support the President's latest strategy, I believe the 
American military should not serve as a referee in the sectarian 
conflict that has lasted for centuries. It is the responsibility of the 
Iraqi Government to take a stronger role to set benchmarks and not let 
the American military and our forces be caught in the middle. This 
resolution is silent in its requirements to the elected Iraqi 
Government and to the Iraqi people, and holding their own destiny in 
their hands.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I have listened to the 
generals and military experts, administration officials, tell us that 
Iraqi forces are ready for greater responsibilities in securing Iraq. 
However, after being to Iraq five times myself, and talking with a 
number of soldiers in the field, the reality on the ground is that 
Iraqi forces are not being used to the extent that they should at this 
point. I think that needs to change.

I would like to also say that it is with great regret that I will not 
be here at the conclusion of the debate this week. Unfortunately, my 
father-in-law passed away after a battle with cancer, and I will be 
heading out to the funeral with my wife and the family.

I wanted to be on record before leaving as to what this critical 
motion means. This debate cannot and should not be the end of what we 
are talking about, and for the reasons stated before all future debates 
must be substantive on policies. It is clear to me the majority has a 
strategy that many have talked about that reflects far beyond just the 
surge in Iraq and what it may mean, but has implications for funding.

Mr. Speaker, let me make it perfectly clear. I support the troops, 
but on the basis of the message that this is sending to our partners, 
to the troops, to their families on this nonsubstantive resolution, I 
cannot support it.

I will close by saying that I received a call from a father, who has 
two children that are in Iraq. One felt so strongly that he sent a 
letter to our local newspaper, Specialist Matthew J. Smith of Hopewell 
Township, and I have just a few excerpts from his letter. ''I 
personally feel as if I am here


for a great purpose and goal that our Commander in Chief has ordered us 
to achieve. I have never felt it would be an easy task, nor should 
those at home living their comfortable lives. Have we forgotten that 
this great country of ours was not handed to us on a silver platter? I 
am asking everyone, please don't allow those of us who have died to die 
in vain. When we have completed the mission and have been successful in 
defending freedom, we will come home.''

