---
---

# None
## `6b6eca7c2f759c31208937baaca45144`
`Mr. BURR — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I have deep respect for Senator Inouye, who 
just spoke. He is passionate. There is no American who can look at 
Senator Inouye and not see an American war hero. He has committed so 
much, and his perspective on history is important for all of us to 
recognize. Before him, Senator Stevens spoke, one of the foundations of 
the U.S. Senate. I find myself troubled to some degree that I am at 
odds with both of them on this issue.

I want Senator Inouye to know how much I respect him and how much 
research I have done on this issue, and I will try to make my case for 
why I do not think this is a priority but to do it in the most 
respectful way I possibly can to individuals, such as Senator Inouye, 
who have so much invested not just in their knowledge but in the 
commitment and sacrifices they have made.

Mr. President, we started debating S. 1315 earlier today. Where I 
ended off in that earlier debate was pointing out to my colleagues and 
the country how this special pension, a special pension we intend to 
provide to a very small group of Filipino veterans who were not 
enlisted in the U.S. Armed Forces but were under control of U.S. forces 
and command of U.S. forces--I just want to point this out to everybody: 
Currently, the Filipino Government provides a $120-per-month pension to 
this select group of individuals. That pension puts every veteran at 
400 percent over the poverty line in the Philippines. What S. 1315 
attempts to do is to create a new special pension funded by the 
American taxpayers that would take the average income of this select 
group of Filipino veterans to 1,400 percent above the poverty line in 
the Philippines.

Now, let me put that in direct comparison to the United States. We 
have special pensions in the United States that apply to our veterans 
because we believe it is important to say no veteran should live in 
poverty. Our commitment is such that it is roughly over $10,000 a year. 
Let me compute what that $10,000 means relative to the poverty line. It 
means they are 10 percent above the poverty line in the United States.

So with all due respect to my colleagues, I am supposed to come down 
here on behalf of my constituents, my taxpayers, my veterans, 
suggesting there is equity in providing a 1,400-percent pension stipend 
for Filipino veterans over the poverty level but only 10 percent for 
U.S. veterans? Well, I cannot do that. That is why I am at odds with 
some of the people whom I really love and respect in this institution.

As I said earlier today, I have done a tremendous amount of research 
on this issue because so many people have suggested with a high degree 
of certainty there was a promise that was made. Well, I cannot find 
that promise. According to information provided at a 1998 congressional 
hearing, the Department of the Army examined its holdings on GEN 
Douglas MacArthur and President Franklin Roosevelt and ''found no 
reference by either of these wartime leaders to postwar benefits for 
Filipino veterans.''

Now, I am going to ask that another chart be put up that displays the 
difference in Filipino veterans because I think most would believe 
there is one target we are after. What you see here is four different 
groups. You see Old Scouts. These are the Filipino soldiers who signed 
up with the U.S. Army, and they served side by side in the U.S. Army. 
Today, they receive every benefit, except for those living in the 
Philippines and outside of the United States. And medical care is only 
provided at a clinic that the VA has in the Philippines. Every other 
benefit they get. They are getting pensions. They are getting death 
pensions for their survivors. They are getting burial benefits. They 
are getting everything because they were part of the U.S. Armed Forces, 
even though they are Filipino.

The other three categories you see: the Commonwealth Army of the 
Philippines, recognized guerilla forces, New Philippine Scouts--yes, 
they were under the command of U.S. forces. Everybody in the Pacific 
was under U.S. force command. But they actually enlisted in the 
Filipino forces. We never solicited them. They could have joined the 
U.S. Army. They chose not to.

The reality is that just about every benefit, except for two, was 
extended to even the three groups that are the Filipino veterans. The 
two glaring exceptions are pensions for nonservice-related 
disabilities--nonservice-connected disabilities--and the death pension 
for survivors.

So what I want everybody to understand is, in a bill that totals over 
$900 million--that, I might add, we are funding. We are offsetting it 
because a court ruling took this away from U.S. veterans. We took money 
away in benefits from U.S. veterans. We are now using this $900 million 
the courts extracted to say we are going to enhance the benefits for 
our veterans here at home. As a matter of fact, over $300 million of it 
is life insurance changes we are making. And, yes, our veterans are 
benefiting from it. But $100 million of that $900 million is going in 
this category to beef up our commitment to Filipino veterans. But there 
is $221 million that is going to create a special pension, a pension 
for those Filipino troops who served as part of the Filipino military 
who were commanded by U.S. forces and never injured in combat. Let me 
say that again: Filipinos who live in the Philippines who were under 
U.S. command who served in the Filipino Army and have no service-
connected disability.


This is not about disabilities. This is about a windfall. This is 
about a windfall that exceeds what our standard is here for our 
veterans, which is 10 percent above poverty, and currently the Filipino 
veterans are over 400 percent above poverty; and some in this 
institution suggest that the right thing for us to do is to raise their 
pension to 1,400 percent over the poverty level in the Philippines.

Some might say: Was it Congress's intent to grant full VA benefits to 
Filipino veterans? It is important to note that it was a 1942 VA legal 
opinion which concluded that Filipino veterans had served ''in the 
active military or naval service of the United States'' and on that 
basis were eligible for VA benefits.

Senator Carl Hayden, chairman of the subcommittee on appropriations, 
had this to say about the VA's legal determination regarding Philippine 
Army veterans during committee proceedings on March 25, 1946:







 There is nothing to indicate that there was any discussion 


 of the meaning of that term, probably because it is generally 


 well recognized and has been used in many statutes having to 


 do with members or former members of the American armed 


 forces. It would normally be construed to include persons 


 regularly enlisted or inducted in the regular manner in the 


 military and naval service of the United States.


I go on:




 But no one could be found who would assert that it was ever 


 the clear intention of Congress that such benefits as are 


 granted under . . . the GI bill of rights--should be extended 


 to the soldiers of the Philippine Army. There is nothing in 


 the text of any of the laws enacted by Congress for the 


 benefit of veterans to indicate such intent.


This is our colleague in 1946.

I go on:




 It is certainly unthinkable that the Congress would extend 


 the normal meaning of the term to cover the large number of 


 Filipinos to whom it has been suggested that the Servicemen's 


 Readjustment Act of 1940 applies, at a cost running into 


 billions of dollars, aside from other considerations, without 


 some reference to it either in the debates in Congress or in 


 the committee reports.


Now, I am quoting from the history of our congressional hearings, of 
our Senate hearings, in 1946, from the chairman of the subcommittee on 
appropriations.

Again, we have the Department of the Army examining the records of 
GEN Douglas MacArthur. We have the Department of the Army examining the 
papers of Franklin Roosevelt. They find no references by either of 
these wartime leaders to postwar benefits guaranteed to Filipinos. We 
have the records of the congressional hearing, and Senator Carl Hayden 
says: I have looked. There is nothing that suggests that this promise 
was ever made. Yet individuals come to the floor and they make this 
claim.

Now, I am convinced that--we are dealing with something 50 years 
later--it is very possible that memories are not exactly the same, that 
one person's recollection may be different today than it was in 1942 or 
1944 or 1946. All the basis we have is to go back in history, to look 
at the documents, to see what the commitments were, and, more 
importantly, to try to get inside the heads of our colleagues then, to 
understand: If it was not in the letter of the law, what was the 
intent? Senator Hayden makes it very clear: It is not only not the 
letter of the law, it is not the intent of the Congress of the United 
States.

Now, what factors influenced Congress's decision to limit certain VA 
benefits to Filipino veterans in what is known as the Rescissions Act 
of 1946?

You see, in the United States we have the rule of law. When the 
courts determined, under their understanding, this set of benefits 
would apply, Congress actually passed legislation to rescind what the 
courts had awarded.

Again, quoting Senator Hayden:




 The GI bill of rights is intended to benefit an American 


 who served in the armed forces and who, upon discharge from 


 the service, returns to civil life in the United States, 


 where American standards of living prevail. . . . Whenever 


 any part of the GI bill of rights is extended to Filipino 


 veterans, the cost of living in the Philippines and other 


 economic factors must be given careful consideration.


Let me go back to the chart I referenced. That is all we are 
applying. That is the only standard I am asking my colleagues to look 
at: that when we apply what sounds in the United States like a meager 
amount--$120 a month--what we are talking about is 400 percent over the 
poverty level. When we talk about increasing by $300 a month the 
pension, what we are doing is we are taking potentially a Filipino 
veteran who is already 400 percent over poverty, or more--assuming they 
have no other income--and we are putting them at 1,400 percent over 
poverty, which puts them way above the middle class of the Philippines. 
This is a tremendous windfall when you look at it from the standpoint 
of the size of the Philippine economy.

Mr. President, in total, S. 1315 proposes about $900 million worth of 
spending over 10 years. I will ask that a chart be put up so everybody 
can see what S. 1315 does. I think many have construed that I am 
opposed to S. 1315. I am the ranking member. I only have one piece I am 
opposed to. I have been accused of holding the bill up since last 
August. I have tried to negotiate this one piece since last August. 
What you see there is the Filipino piece, which is No. 1 on the list--
$332 million out of $900 million. The actual pension issue is $221 
million. There is the term life insurance program, $326 million for our 
kids; the State approving agencies, $60 million; mortgage life 
insurance, $51 million. You can go down the list. It is $909 million 
worth of benefits. I am only addressing a small sliver. It is a quarter 
of it in dollars, but it is a small piece. I am for everything else.

If you take the Filipino special pension out, today I will propose to 
pass it under unanimous consent. I made the offer to the majority 
leader yesterday. This chart lists all of the provisions of S. 1315, 
from the most expensive provision to the least expensive provision. 
Again, you can see that the Filipino piece is the most expensive 
provision in S. 1315.

During a time of tight budgets, and when multiple commissions have 
recommended that Congress focus our resources to improve the benefits 
of our U.S. returning combat veterans, it is plain wrong to put the 
needs of Filipino veterans, with no service-related injuries, who are 
residing in the Philippines, ahead of our own service-injured men and 
women returning from war. I am not sure it is defensible to suggest 
that we are going to institute that special pension, which means we are 
not going to divert that $221 million to our men and women.

I will have a substitute amendment tomorrow. The only change in my 
substitute amendment is that it keeps intact everything but the special 
pension. It diverts the special pension and it enhances the ability for 
housing upgrades for our disabled troops to be made from $50,000 to 
$55,000. It provides additional grants for disabled veterans who need 
upgrades to their vehicles that they drive; it will up the special 
grants by $1,000. We are going to address additional burial benefits. 
We are going to address some discrepancies in education benefits for 
our Guard and Reserve. We are using the $221 million solely to divert 
it to our veterans.

Each of us has met with veterans organizations and constituents who 
have asked us to address the needs that exist in the veterans 
community, particularly the needs of soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines who are defending us in the war on terror. The distinguished 
majority leader touched on this very point last Friday. Frankly, after 
reading his comments, I was hopeful he might support the amendment I am 
offering, the substitute amendment. On Friday, he talked about the 
number of Americans who died in Iraq. He talked about those who are 
coming home with physical and mental wounds. He made the following 
statement:




 At the height of this war, with soldiers being wounded 


 every day and soldiers coming home from Iraq every day, we 


 can't even get a bill to deal with their health to the Senate 


 floor.


All I have ever asked for is a fair opportunity to amend the bill and 
a fair length of time to debate the bill. The majority leader has to 
make decisions as to whether he files cloture motions. He has filed 67 
of them, because 67 times they tried to short the minority on our 
ability to exercise the rights we have as the minority, which are not 
many.

But 67 times it has been done, so 67 times he filed a cloture motion. 
That is part of leading; I am sorry.

But don't suggest that the No. 1 thing that you are for is our guys, 
when $221 million of this is going to set up a new special pension fund 
for Filipinos, who live in the Philippines, with no service-connected 
disability. It is disingenuous.

There is consensus in this body for everything else in S. 1315, 
except for one provision. We have tried for months to negotiate that 
one provision. For my colleagues who want to know why this bill has 
been at a standstill, it is because we have been trying to shift the 
money to our kids--our children and our grandchildren. At the committee 
markup last June, Senator Craig put forward an amendment to redirect 
the Filipino pension fund to other priorities. It was rejected on a 
straight party-line vote--another rarity in the Veterans' Committee. We 
don't have party-line votes in the Veterans' Committee. For some 
reason, this year we have now had them.

In December, shortly after the Dole-Shalala disability commission 
recommended we improve a host of benefits for war-injured veterans, I 
offered


another proposal to redirect the spending on pensions for Filipinos to 
higher priorities. It too was rejected. Any claim that there has not 
been an attempt to try to negotiate what is in this bill is ludicrous. 
I put that proposal in the form of a bill, S. 2640. We cannot hide from 
it. We will vote on it. Members will be asked to choose between our 
veterans and a 1,400-percent pension over the poverty line in the 
Philippines. That will happen tomorrow.


This comes down to where our priorities are--the Senate and this 
Congress. I believe our priorities should be on increasing the benefits 
that apply to our guys. I believe that the substitute amendment I will 
offer that increases housing grants for profoundly disabled veterans 
who need their homes modified is important. It should be a priority. I 
believe the auto grants for profoundly disabled veterans who need the 
freedom of mobility to live independently is a priority. I believe 
improvements to the education benefits for returning Guard and 
Reservists is a priority. I am sad to say that we do increase the 
burial benefits. I am sorry it is a provision that people have to take 
advantage of. But burial benefit increase is a priority of this 
country. I believe all of these things are absolutely crucial.

I met a veteran from North Carolina last year, Eric Edmundson. He 
needed a vehicle because of his disabilities. An unbelievable soldier; 
an unbelievable American. He will never fully recover. He will only be 
mobile with the help of the aids we can make available to him. The 
Edmundsons found an accessible van to accommodate Eric's injuries for 
$45,000. They had to pay $14,000 out of pocket.

Can we put the need of that van for Eric Edmundson as a top priority? 
We can if, in fact, we shift the $221 million that is going to people 
who have no service-connected disability, don't live in the United 
States, aren't U.S. citizens, didn't serve in the U.S. Army, but were 
under U.S. command during World War II. We are not going to be able to 
do it if, in fact, we don't shift the money.

My amendment would increase the auto grant benefit to $16,000 and, 
more importantly, in the case of the housing benefit, the auto benefit, 
and the burial benefit, it would index it so that annually we don't 
have to go in and legislate an increase. It increases with inflation, 
so for the first time what Congress does is actually thinks about the 
future and makes sure our veterans receive a benefit that is reflective 
of the inflation in between times that we have legislated.

Creating a pension in the Philippines, I suggest, is simply bad 
policy. I will make a comment on why the Philippine pension is not only 
the wrong priority, it cannot be justified as a matter of fairness. It 
is important to understand that VA pensions are designed for veterans, 
as I said earlier, to stay out of poverty. When we left the 
Philippines, we made some commitments to the Filipino Government. We 
transferred to them multiple hospitals and all the equipment that was 
in those hospitals. As a matter of fact, we granted them, at the time, 
a tremendous amount of money. That money, in today's standards, would 
be well into the billions of dollars. We didn't walk away and leave 
anybody without. We made sure that we rebuilt the country, but we also 
left the infrastructure that was most needed.

Let me suggest to you that this pension creates a new inequity. There 
were a lot of troops in the Second World War under U.S. command. They 
might not have been a territory of the United States, but they signed 
up for their army, and they were under U.S. command. What is to keep 
them from claiming they are owed a special pension from the United 
States? They have never done it. These are the only ones who have. If 
you think of all of our global partners who could claim, based upon 
this precedent, quite frankly, it would be a difficult thing for this 
country to deal with.

As I said earlier, this new spending is paid for by reversing the 
effects of a U.S. Court of Appeals decision for veterans' claims 
decision that granted extra pension benefits to elderly and poor U.S. 
veterans in a manner that was never intended by Congress.

Let me explain in layman's terms what that means. The VA made 
enhanced payments to U.S. veterans--benefits that were never intended 
in the letter of the law or in the intent of Congress. When the courts 
determined that, they pulled back about a billion dollars from this 
country's veterans. It is that billion dollars that is used in the 
offset for the $909 million spending plan we have in front of us today. 
I may argue the court's decision, but to take money from veterans in 
the United States, who are slightly above the poverty threshold, and 
spend it on a new special pension for Filipino veterans, who are 
already 400 percent above poverty in the Philippines, is flat wrong.

Let me say that again. What the court exercised was to take money 
away from U.S. veterans who are slightly over poverty, and I have said 
constantly what we do with special pensions in the United States, we 
get about 10 percent over the poverty line. We have Filipinos today at 
400 percent over the poverty line, and the debate we are having is 
whether we go to 1,400 percent over the poverty line.

One of the largest service organizations, the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars, agrees. It passed a resolution in August urging Congress to use 
funds from reversing the effects of the court decision on U.S. veterans 
and not to create new benefits for Filipino veterans. If my colleagues 
adopted that approach, as many of us have urged from the beginning, S. 
1315 would have become law in August 2007.

The chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee is a good man. He is 
a friend. He sent me a letter on April 10, asking for my cooperation on 
a way forward with some of the contentious issues in S. 1315--primarily 
this--but on the very next day the majority leader was already talking 
about filing a cloture motion on the bill. I was perplexed a little. On 
the one hand, I had an offer to negotiate a way forward; but on the 
other hand, I have a cloture vote being proposed. I am not sure where 
the disconnect is. I don't like to look back. I believe we should look 
forward.

I am prepared to go to the bill. I believe it would be extremely 
healthy for this Congress and for the American people to be educated on 
exactly what this is about because this truly does beg where we place 
our priorities from the standpoint of the Senate. Are our priorities to 
fund our veterans, our kids with service-connected disabilities, or is 
our goal to set up a special pension for non-U.S. citizens who live in 
the Philippines, with no service-connected injuries, and to divert that 
money away from our kids?

The answer is pretty simple for me. I believe our priority is to make 
sure our troops get it. I believe our priority should be to make sure 
our soldiers get whatever they need, to make sure the Eric Edmundsons 
of the world have the van they need for their disabilities, to make 
sure those who need adaptive housing because of their severe 
disabilities from war have the money they need to upgrade their house 
so they can maneuver in it.

I daresay, a $1,000 increase on the auto grants and a $5,000 increase 
on the adaptive housing is not enough. I can tell my colleagues, we 
need to do more, and I am committed to say today I will do more. But 
how are we going to do more if we show something as irresponsible as a 
decision to spend $221 million that we have taken from U.S. veterans, 
away from people slightly over the poverty level, to allow it to go to 
individuals who are going to be above the middle class in the 
Philippines?

How can any veteran in America believe we are serious about 
prioritizing how we spend money in the future if, in fact, we display 
this type of judgment and willingness to extract money from our 
veterans to create new programs?

I am fairly confident we have a number of Members who would like to 
speak on this bill this evening. It is my hope we will have an 
opportunity to turn to consideration of the actual bill and to 
entertain any amendments our colleagues plan to offer on this bill.

When the majority leader left the floor earlier today, he said it was 
his request that we move as quickly to conclusion of this bill as we 
possibly can. I have given my colleagues a small snippet tonight of 
what the history I looked at says of our leaders at the time. There was 
no documentation, there was no hearsay, there was no intent of those 
leaders or the Congress to


actually extend a benefit such as those that have been described by 
some of my colleagues.

Clearly, this Congress, as any Congress of the future, could elect to 
add a benefit. For 50 years, the Congress could have added this 
benefit. The further we get from the 1942 act and the interpretation by 
the Court and the further we get from the 1946 Senate hearings that 
initiated the Rescissions Act that took the Court's interpretation of 
what the Filipinos were due away, I am convinced it requires somebody 
to do their homework and come to the floor and remind us of where our 
priorities are in this country; that until we have more than our kids 
need, the right priority is to spend it on ours and not necessarily on 
somebody else's.

I reiterate the fact that our veterans and our VA pension is designed 
for veterans who have no service-related injuries and who are poor, 
according to the U.S. definition of poverty, and the maximum VA pension 
payable to a U.S.-based veteran puts him at 10 percent above poverty 
and at 17 percent of the median average household income.

Again, the Philippine Government currently provides a $120 pension to 
this brave group of Filipino veterans, putting them at roughly 400 
percent of poverty in the Philippines and 35 percent of the average 
household income. Adding an additional VA pension today, adding the 
pension that is already in S. 1315, would put a single Filipino veteran 
at 1,400 percent of the Filipino poverty level and 21 percent above the 
average household income.

Think about that. Our special pension is going to put them 21 percent 
over what the average Filipino makes annually.

If the argument I have made is not credible from the standpoint of 
prioritizing our spending, that it should be our kids and not 
necessarily their veterans, then I ask my colleagues: Is this our 
responsibility? Our responsibility is to take individuals and to put 
them 21 percent over the average working Filipino? I do not believe so. 
I do not believe that is a good thing. I believe it is wrong. But that 
is what we are being asked to do.

I am not sure the VA was intended to take people and put them in the 
middle class or, in the case of the Philippines, to put them above the 
middle class. It was to make sure our soldiers and their soldiers do 
not live in poverty. Clearly, they are doing better than we are today, 
and I challenge us to do more about ours, or maybe it describes for us 
the choice we have before us, that this would be ill-advised for us to 
proceed forward.

Since World War II, the United States of America has provided a 
tremendous amount to Filipino veterans. Congress authorized the 
construction and equipping of a hospital for the care of Filipino 
veterans. The Filipino Memorial Hospital Center VMMC was dedicated in 
1955 and turned over to the Filipino Government free of charge. 
Congress authorized the transfer of another hospital located at Fort 
McKinley in the Philippines, including all the equipment contained in 
the hospital, to the Republic of the Philippines. Congress provided 
that annual grants be made to the Philippines to purchase equipment and 
material for the operation of these hospitals. Congress also authorized 
disability compensation, survivor compensation, funeral and burial 
benefits, dependents' educational benefits at the rate of 50 cents on 
the dollar for individuals residing in the Philippines and full-dollar 
benefits for those residing in the United States. Full eligibility for 
VA health care was provided to Filipino veterans legally residing in 
the United States.

We have done a lot. I am sure it is not as much as some want. We are 
faced with a job where we have people come in and ask every day--there 
is something everybody needs. I learned very early in life that the 
toughest thing to learn in life is to say no because that means 
somebody is upset with you. But you cannot go through life without 
learning the word ''no.'' You cannot do it in business, and you clearly 
cannot do it in politics. Maybe that is why Charles de Gaulle said 
politics is too serious a matter to leave up to politicians. It 
requires a participation level of the American people.

My hope is, over the next day, 2 days--whatever the leadership 
decides is the future of this bill--that we will have an opportunity to 
educate the American people and, at the same time, we will educate 
Members of the Senate that no matter how far you want to look back, no 
matter how much you want to try to speculate what went on, that when 
you stick with the written word, when you look at what President 
Roosevelt said, when you look at what General MacArthur said, when you 
look at what the Senate did and Senator Hayden--and they were there at 
the time and the Senate was charged with determining whether this 
benefit was appropriate--that from all the information in real time 
they looked at, their decision was the Rescissions Act, to take away 
what the courts had awarded.

Now, 50 years later, we are being asked not to apply what they 
thought was correct but to apply what we think today. Even if you use 
that standard, I daresay you cannot make a claim that a special pension 
that puts Filipino veterans who live in the Philippines, with no 
service-connected injury, 21 percent over the median income in the 
Philippines is the right thing for us to do.

I know there are several Members who are going to come over shortly. 
I expect Senator Chambliss any minute.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.