# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `6b716ee9613e35d8187019c11e909821`
`Mr. WARNER — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank our colleague. I wonder if I could 
ask our colleague a question before she departs? She made reference to 
her trip and the discussions that she had with the senior commanders. I 
would like to bring to her attention testimony that came before our 
committee, of which the distinguished Senator from Maine is a member, 
at which time we heard from the Commander of the United States Central 
Command, General Abizaid.

In the course of his testimony to Congress on November 15, 2006--
right in the timeframe the Senator made her trip--I will quote him, 
General Abizaid. The general said:




 I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, Corps 


 Commander, and General Dempsey--we all talked together. And I 


 said, ''In your professional opinion, if we were to bring in 


 more American troops now, does it add considerably to our 


 ability to achieve success in Iraq?'' And they all said no. 


 And the reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It's 


 easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


I say to my colleague, that quote captured my own visit, which was 
just barely a month before that, when I came back and I described in my 
public comments that the situation in Iraq was drifting sideways.

That was a very serious summary. But I said it because I felt 
obligated to our troops who were fighting bravely and courageously and 
with a level of professionalism that equals the finest hour in the 200-
plus-year history of our military--and the support their families give 
them. I felt ever so strongly that we were obligated as a country to 
reexamine our strategy and I called for that reexamination of strategy 
and it has been done.

But I say to my colleague, General Abizaid's summary about the need 
for more forces, does that not summarize what you learned on your trip?