# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `6b72b3e919a5a8f4bf216189baa25fd5`
`Mr. FARR — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. FARR. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.

To our current acting ranking member, Mr. Crenshaw, thank you very 
much for giving me this moment to speak on this very important bill.

Madam Chair, yesterday, the House of Representatives had a very 
important vote, a very controversial vote here. The vote was on funding 
the war effort in Afghanistan. Those votes ought to be controversial--
whether we go to war, where we go to war, and how long the mission is 
going to take. Those ought to be votes that you can cast for and 
against. Yet there is one bill you can't vote against, and that is the 
bill that supports the troops in their residence, in their training and 
back here at home--the quality of life that we provide defense 
personnel, military personnel.

This is the bill that funds the child care centers. This is the bill 
that creates the housing for men and women in uniform, who voluntarily 
join the service. This is the bill that creates the clinics and the 
hospitals, the support systems--any kind of community of support--and a 
special one for military personnel needs. So one can vote against the 
war, but one cannot vote against the support here at home.

This bill has bipartisan support because it is interested in 
improving the quality of life of military personnel, who voluntarily 
come into the military. Everybody who passes through the Department of 
Defense ends up becoming a veteran. You cannot be a veteran without 
having served in active duty.

This committee also supports the continuum of care. We ought not to 
have a silo of Defense Department quality of care and a separate silo 
for veterans. We are making it seamless. We are making it so that, when 
you enroll in the Department of Defense, you also automatically enroll 
in the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Department of Veterans 
Affairs takes care of you for the rest of your life. We owe it to any 
man or woman who has ever served in the military to provide them the 
promises that were made. These promises were made, but the quality of 
care until now has not been that great. It has changed.

Please support this appropriations bill as the real ''support our 
troops'' bill.