# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `6b72cca0cb92559538fdd3d2f170d904`
`Mr. INHOFE — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, there has been a lot of discussion since 
last week when MoveOn.org, with a very liberal antiwar stance--which we 
understand has been their position for quite some time, raising 
millions of dollars for various Democratic Party candidates--ran an ad. 
Up until the September 10 ad in the New York Times calling General 
Petraeus ''General Betray Us,'' MoveOn.org seemed to be in line with 
the Democrat's public statements supporting the troops but opposing the 
war.

It is my understanding my good friend, the junior Senator from Texas, 
is going to be having a resolution that will be coming up shortly. I 
want a chance to talk a little bit about that resolution.

I believe that MoveOn.org's ad crossed the line by attacking the 
character and integrity of America's top military leader in Iraq.

General Petraeus is a man of honor, honesty, and integrity. He is a 
West Point graduate. He has held leadership positions in airborne, 
mechanized, and air assault infantry units in Europe and the United 
States, including command of a battalion in the 101st Airborne 
Division, as well as a brigade in the 82nd Airborne Division.

He was the aide to the Chief of Staff of the Army; battalion, 
brigade, and division operations officer; he has done it all. He was 
the Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

He was the top graduate--not one of the top graduates, but the top 
graduate--of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College. He earned 
M.P.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Princeton University. We are talking 
about a Ph.D. from Princeton University. This is not an ordinary 
officer. This is a man with incredible credentials.

He has won multiple awards and decorations, including being 
recognized by US News & World Report as one of America's 25 best 
leaders in the year 2005.

He is our top military commander in Iraq and commander of the Multi-
National Force-Iraq, confirmed by the Senate as the right man for the 
job. He was confirmed, I might add, unanimously by the Senate.

The very day General Petraeus sat before Congress to offer his latest 
report, MoveOn.org ran a full-page ad in the New York Times attacking 
his message before they even heard his message.

The ad accused General Petraeus of ''Cooking the Books for the White 
House'' and called him ''a military man constantly at war with the 
facts.'' Their shameless attack on his character did not stop there. 
They accused him of being a traitor, calling him ''General Betray Us.''

Well, anyway, MoveOn.org's attempt to discredit General Petraeus is 
deplorable, and I join with other Members of the Senate in condemning 
its actions.

I have no issue with news agencies or individuals offering and 
debating opposing views. That is what we do on this floor every day. 
However, MoveOn.org crossed the line when they ran the ad attacking the 
motives and honor of our No. 1 commander on the ground in Iraq.

I support Senator Lieberman's condemnation of MoveOn.org's attempt at 
character assassination, and I call on them to retract their scurrilous 
ad with another full-page ad apologizing for their error in judgment. 
But they would not do it. You know they would not do it. Still, we can 
try. They don't have the character to do it.


While no American is above scrutiny, this was clearly a calculated 
move on the part of this organization to undermine the noble efforts of 
this patriot to execute his duties that we in Congress unanimously sent 
him to accomplish.

It amazes me how far some will go to root for American failure in 
Iraq. MoveOn.org clearly placed their political agenda ahead of the 
best interests of the United States and particularly the men and women 
of the military when they chose to run that ad.



Now, something interesting happened. A reporter from the Washington 
Post came up with this, did a little research. According to the 
director of public relations for the New York Times, the open rate for 
an ad of that size and type is $181,000. According to a September 14 
Washington Post article, the New York Times dramatically slashed its 
normal rates for the full-page ad.

A spokesman for MoveOn.org confirmed to the Post they paid only 
$65,000 for the ad. The Post reporter called the Times advertising 
department without identifying himself and was quoted a price of 
$167,000 for a full-page black-and-white ad on a Monday. The New York 
Times refused to offer any explanation for why the paper would give 
them a rate one-third of their published rate.

Now, my first visit to Iraq was in August of 2003, and my latest 
visit was on the August 30, 2007. The Iraq I saw last time is not the 
Iraq I visited in 2003. I would like to say also that between those 
years I have actually been to the Iraqi AOR, area of operations, some 
15 times. During that period of time I have seen these things.

I knew what General Petraeus was going to say when he came here last 
week because I was with him a few days before that. I read General 
Petraeus's and Ambassador Crocker's prepared statements and listened 
intently to their testimonies. I compared their assessment with the 
assessments I have made over the past 4 years visiting Iraq. It appears 
our assessments are based on similar events that have occurred in Iraq.

I watched Ramadi as it changed. You might remember a year ago they 
claimed Ramadi was going to become the terrorist capital of the world. 
Ramadi is now totally secured.

I visited Fallujah. I have been there several times. I was there 
during all the elections. I watched those Iraqi security forces go and 
vote. I watched the American marines go door to door World War II 
style. Fallujah now--which was the hotbed in Anbar Province of Iraq--is 
now under total security, and not with U.S. forces but with Iraqi 
security forces.

I visited Patrol Base Murray, south of Baghdad, and met with local 
Iraqis who came forward and established provisional units of 
neighborhood security volunteers. These individuals heard the Americans 
were coming and were there and cheering, waiting for them to arrive.

I watched these Neighborhood Watch and Concerned Citizens groups take 
root in Anbar Province and slowly make their way to other cities 
spreading across Iraq--local civilians willing to stand up and take 
back their neighborhoods, their cities, and province.

Citizens are marking IEDs with orange paint--undetonated IEDs and 
PRGs--identifying al-Qaida in their towns and testifying against them. 
It is something that was not happening a few months before or prior to 
the surge. They are guarding critical infrastructure and working side 
by side with the U.S. forces.

I saw the anti-American messages at the mosques. Our intelligence 
goes into the mosques for each of their weekly meetings. Up through 
December of this past year, they averaged that 85 percent of the 
messages were anti-American messages. Since April of this year, there 
have been no anti-American messages. I guess I learned something that 
no one else seems to agree with; that is, we spend entirely too much 
time talking about the political leaders, when the religious leaders 
are the ones responsible for these major changes. These are the ones 
who are standing in the mosques and talking about Americans and the 
coalition forces as their allies, not as adversaries, as they were 
before.

I visited the Joint Security Stations in Baghdad. It used to be our 
kids would go out on a mission during the daytime, and they would come 
back at night to the green zone. They do not do that anymore. These 
Joint Security Stations--even as to the report that came in, our goal 
was to have 34, and there are now 32 of those Joint Security Stations. 
These guys go out, and instead of coming back, they sit and become 
friends with the Iraqis and actually sleep in the homes of the Iraqi 
security forces.

I watched the surge operations take effect, visited a former al-Qaida 
sanctuary, and saw a strengthening of Iraqi forces resulting in an 
increase in burden sharing.

I observed a steady decrease in the number of attacks in Anbar from 
40 to less than 10 a day.

I visited the markets. There is a lot of talk about that. A lot of 
people go and visit the markets with all kinds of protection. I went to 
the markets without any protection, and I talked, through an 
interpreter, to people. I picked out people holding babies, and they 
were all glad to see us.

I met with U.S. and coalition leaders and commanders, Iraqi leaders 
and commanders, and local civilian groups on each trip.

I watched the political, economic, and diplomatic growth over time. 
It has been uneven and frustrating, but it has been a movement in the 
right direction.

I guess the bottom line is Iraq is achieving progress. No one can 
debate that. It is not just General Petraeus. It is what the Iraqis 
say. It is what they are saying, the religious leaders and the 
political leaders. It is happening, happening since the surge. The 
surge is clearly working.

The coalition forces are handing back control of Iraq to the Iraqis 
and to the Iraqi security forces. Local leaders who want better lives 
for their people are bravely standing up and rejecting the fatalist, 
cynical, and hate-filled diet fed to them by al-Qaida and other 
extremists.

Iraqis are realizing that al-Qaida does not offer a long-term vision 
of hope or an opportunity for them any more than it would for the 
average Californian or New Yorker or Oklahoman.

A backlash and rebellion against al-Qaida has been going on over the 
last 6 months in places such as Anbar Province and Babil Province south 
of Baghdad. When the tribal leaders and clerics in Anbar made the 
conscious decision to reject al-Qaida, they virtually overnight 
transformed their province into a model for the rest of the country to 
emulate. The ''concerned citizens'' of Babil Province--I was there--
recognized the progress made in Anbar and decided they wanted to do the 
same thing. So it is spreading. It is spreading into areas even up 
toward Tikrit, the hometown of Saddam Hussein.

So al-Qaida understands the importance of the collective American 
will when it comes to prosecuting the war on terror. They understand 
they have absolutely no chance of winning this war over the long run 
militarily. They understand their only chance of achieving victory is 
to get the American people to call for a withdrawal. If we pull out of 
the fight, they win. There is no other way to characterize it. This is 
a strategic military objective for them. Like with any military 
objective, they have developed a tactic to achieve it. Their tactic in 
this case is to tear away the American will to win by committing 
horrific and brutal attacks against innocent victims. They understand 
that Americans agonize over the pictures and the news reports of those 
atrocities.

Let there be no doubt about it, our will as Americans to fight for 
freedom and democracy around the world is under attack by a brutal and 
ruthless enemy. That enemy would be emboldened by a victory in Iraq. 
Iraq would become a safe haven for terrorists and extremists from which 
they can launch their wicked atrocities around the world.

We could accept the offer of Iran's President to step in and fill the 
vacuum. He has clearly said: If the Americans pull out, we go in. 
However, this offer comes from a man who has vowed the extermination of 
the Jewish State of Israel, and he has vowed to expand his nuclear 
program and clearly puts us in jeopardy of being held hostage.

It is not in the American ethic to turn our back on people who are 
striving for a better way of life for their children. It is not in our 
national interest to leave a failed Iraqi State.

The surge is working, largely due to the leadership of one great 
American--GEN David Petraeus. MoveOn.Org should just once retreat from 
their attack on America and apologize to that great American hero, GEN 
David Petraeus.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.