---
---

# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `6b732155c738e2b86fe6d96d2042064d`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Madam President, I rise once again to recognize the 
service of one of America's great Federal employees.

This Monday, Americans across the country marked Columbus Day. It is 
a day that holds different meanings for different communities. I had 
such a meaningful experience attending the Columbus Day Mass and 
breakfast at St. Anthony's of Padua in Wilmington. I know in the 
Italian-American community, Columbus Day is a vibrant cultural 
celebration. But Columbus Day, above all, reminds us all that America 
is a patchwork; that we are--in the words etched on the wall behind 
you, Madam President--one Nation from many. This has always been a 
source of great strength for our country.

This is as true for our Federal workforce as it is for America as a 
whole. So many of our outstanding civil servants were not born in the 
United States. Some came as students and found in America jobs and a 
new home. Others came as infants, carried onto airplanes in the arms of 
loving parents seeking a new beginning for their families. Some 
traveled halfway around the world driven by the dream of a better life. 
Others braved the short but perilous journey over turbulent waves 
fueled only by the hope of freedom on our shores. The diversity of our 
Nation is reflected in the diversity of those who choose to serve it.

The Federal employee I am recognizing this week has had a 
distinguished career in the Department of Justice, both in the 
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and at the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation.

Zalmai Azmi was 14 years old when he fled with his family from 
Afghanistan. He arrived in the United States speaking very little 
English, and he became fluent while in high school. Zalmai, wishing to 
give back to the Nation which gave him refuge, eventually joined the 
Marine Corps. He served in the corps for 7 years as a communications 
and intelligence specialist, and he also trained in special operations. 
While in the Marines, Zalmai studied computer science, and he later 
obtained a bachelor's degree in the field from the American University 
and a master's from George Washington University.

In the 1990s, Zalmai continued his Federal career by moving from the 
military into the civil service. He was working as chief information 
officer for the Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys when the September 
11 attacks occurred. Zalmai helped implement the Justice Department's 
continuity of operations emergency plan, and by September 12, he was at 
Ground Zero in New York setting up departmental field offices.

Just weeks after the attacks, he volunteered to be dropped into 
Afghanistan as part of a Marines special operations team. In the 2 
years that followed, Zalmai, who is fluent in Dari, Farsi, and Pashto, 
served two tours of duty in Afghanistan. While at home, he was detailed 
to the CIA's Counterterrorism Center.

In 2004, FBI Director Robert Mueller appointed him as the Bureau's 
Chief Information Officer. In that role, Zalmai led the effort to 
revamp the FBI's virtual case file system and helped transform its IT 
infrastructure to meet the needs of a post-9/11 environment.

He was honored with the prestigious Arthur S. Fleming Award for 
Applied Science and Technology in 2002, which is presented annually to 
an outstanding public servant. Additionally, he won the Distinguished 
Presidential Rank Award.

Zalmai retired from the FBI late last year. His story, while unique, 
is reflective of the commitment to service and patriotism embodied by 
all of the immigrants who work in government and serve in our military. 
Just as America would not be as strong without our great Federal 
employees, that workforce would not be as vibrant or successful without 
those who, like Zalmai, came to this country from other lands.

I hope all my colleagues will join me in honoring his service, that 
of the men and women in the Department of Justice, and all immigrants 
who work in the Federal Government.

Madam President, I yield the floor.

