---
---

# None
## `6b7ad25bc6a53e238b7c0869fd7c501c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from the great 
State of Pennsylvania. I think it is also important.

It is also important to recognize those that have been in the field. 
Like I said, I personally haven't, but I am a Member of Congress, and I 
do pay very close attention to what those that are in the field have to 
say about what is happening in the field and also with the 
administration. And it has been a great discussion.

One would say, we have a Democratic House, and we have a Democratic 
Senate. Why can't we bring about an end to this war? Well, I will tell 
you one thing: It can't be without effort.

We have talked so much, Madam Speaker, on this floor about Iraq that 
it is almost like Iraq, Iraq and that other issue, Iraq. And I think 
the reason why we have talked about it is the fact that we know that we 
have to bring an end to what we have presently in Iraq right now. And 
just like my good colleague from Pennsylvania said, it is going to take 
time. I mean, it is almost like when you are moving out of a 
neighborhood or out of a house, you just can't do it in a day. It is 
going to take time for you to pack and do the things that you need to 
do, and that is even more difficult when you start looking at moving 
brigades and battalions and also assets.

I want to just go through, Madam Speaker, the time line because I 
want to make sure that Members know that many of us here on this floor 
have done our due diligence in trying to get ourselves out of this 
situation. And we know, as it relates to the timeline, and I already 
talked a little bit about the benchmarks, but in February, there was a 
vote on this floor, which was a nonbinding resolution, but it sent a 
very strong message to the President of the United States that we did 
not stand with him as it relates to the surge technique that he came up 
with or the escalation of troops, as I call it, in Iraq. The Congress 
voted in the affirmative philosophy saying that it would actually work. 
That is one. It happened in February.


Also, there was also a resolution that imposed restrictions on the 
White House to responsibly begin a withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. 
That was another vote that took place here on this floor, which then 
the President vetoed. It passed the House, passed the Senate, and he 
vetoed it. Then there was a big meeting at the White House of 
Republicans and the President, enough Republicans to assure that the 
Congress could not override the President's veto. I think 1 day or 2 
days after that, I think, we remember everyone kind of came out in 
front of the White House, and they said, ''We support the President.'' 
And I am talking about the Republican conference in the House, mainly 
House Members, and they said, ''We will not participate in the 
overriding of the President.'' We know that took place.

But still this Democratic House, along with the Speaker and I would 
even add maybe a couple of Republicans, and I am not sure, so don't 
quote me on that, voted to override the President's veto. And we 
failed. We did not have enough votes to do it. Why? It wasn't because 
Democrats went south on us or they didn't vote to override the 
President's veto. It happened because we didn't have the votes. We 
didn't have the bipartisan spirit that we needed to make it happen, and 
it did not happen.

Also, when we look at the force protection and when we look at the 
things that our men and women have, I would say it was a courageous 
vote if you voted for the supplemental or you voted against it. It was 
courageous. And, also, I think it is important for us to understand 
that many of the issues that we are facing right now and our troops 
having what they need through the Defense Authorization bill; we 
imposed the readiness standards on the Armed Forces and making sure 
that there are standards. We knew. We took this from the DOD rules, but 
no one wanted to enforce it over there. We voted for being responsible 
and complete as it relates to the redeployment of our troops and to be 
able to withdraw our troops again, a vote that received 171 votes. Many 
of the members of the Out of Iraq Caucus and others spearheaded that 
vote. And I voted for it. I think it is important for us to understand 
that that time has now come. So we have to get that process started.

One may say, well, why don't we stop? Well, the reason why we had to 
make sure that the men and women have what they needed, and no one 
wants anyone in the field not having what they need, is that we do have 
a political battle going on here and we do have a political impasse 
that is going on right here between the administration, members of the 
Republican Party that are in the U.S. House of Representatives and 
Senate, and it is important that we get past that impasse.

And that is the reason why, Madam Speaker, when I started out here 
today in this Special Order, I said it is going to take the bipartisan 
spirit that we had in the Six in '06 initiatives. It is going to take 
the bipartisan spirit that we had on the two emergency supplemental 
amendments. It is going to take that bipartisan spirit for us to get 
there.

Now we have these benchmarks. Now we have reports that are going to 
have to come before Congress. And I am asking the Members to not look 
at it as a Republican or a Democrat or I am a real Republican or I am a 
conservative, a liberal Republican or a moderate or a conservative 
Democrat or a moderate Democrat. It doesn't matter. You have got to 
look at it through the eyes of being an American. And I think it is 
very important that we realize that, come the dates of the benchmark, 
when the reports have to come before the Congress, which is July 15 and 
September 15, that action has to be taken, and there will be other 
votes that will be coming up. There will be votes that will be 
introduced in September to deauthorize the war. That is not a secret. I 
will say it right here. It is going to happen. So do your reading. Do 
your research. Do your soul searching. Talk to your constituents 
because the bottom line is it is what it is. It is what it is. We are 
in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. And I don't need to even go back 
to the whole thing about Iraq originally having nothing to do with 9/
11. We all know that. I don't even need to go back to the fact that we 
were told and the country was told about weapons of mass destruction, 
and there were no weapons of mass destruction. We all know that. I 
don't even need to go back to the administration, the Republican 
leadership at that time, saying we will use the revenues from oil in 
Iraq to be able to fund the war, and we will be greeted as liberators, 
and it will be the best thing since apple pie and Chevy trucks. We 
already know that, and I don't need to go back there and elaborate 
further on those issues.

A lot of folks like to talk about the past. Someone took a vote a 
couple months ago and has got a problem with that vote. Well, that's 
fine. You can have a problem with that vote. Let's talk about the votes 
that are coming up. Let's talk about the benchmarks where one has to 
report before Congress. Let's also talk about July 15. Let's talk about 
September 15. Let's talk about what is going to happen when the 3 
months of authorization or funding that was given in the emergency 
supplemental, let's talk about that. Let's talk about looking at a 
step-by-step process to deauthorize the war in Iraq. Let's talk about 
those issues. Let's act on those issues.

And to those that believe that this war should have ended yesterday 
and that it has not ended yesterday because there is not enough 
leadership on the Democratic side to make it happen, well, look at this 
and listen to this: There wouldn't even be a vote on the floor if it 
wasn't for the Democratic leadership bringing these issues up. It 
wouldn't even be in the newspaper. It wouldn't have been considered. 
There wouldn't have been a number of hearings that have been held in 
the Rayburn building, the Armed Services Committee and in the Foreign 
Affairs Committee and the Appropriations Committee.




We have already surpassed the hearings on Iraq and all of those 
committees in this Congression alone, and we're not even past 7 months 
yet. So, for those that are saying well, what is the House doing and 
what is the Senate doing? Understand this; in the Senate, it's hard to 
even get the votes to even get half of the stuff that we've done here 
in the House, not because the will is not there, it's because we don't 
have that bipartisan spirit that I spoke of.

I think it is important here in this House that we realize, I mean, 
last night was a perfect example, that we have to work in a bipartisan 
way if we're going to stand up on behalf of the American people. We may 
have impasse, but we've got to get beyond that. We've got to make sure 
that we run this House in a way that the American people can be proud 
of it.

But, you know, it's one thing about procedural motions, Mr. Ryan, my 
good friend from Ohio, and it's another thing about action. And because 
so many American lives are in jeopardy in Iraq right now in the middle 
of a civil war, we don't have enough time to play politics here in 
Washington. The only thing that we have to do is to allow our troops to 
have the kind of representation, and their families, here in this House 
and over in the Senate and in the White House that will eventually 
reunite those families with their fathers, their mothers, their sisters 
and their brothers. There is a process. The name of this action of 
getting out of Iraq is not checkers, it's chess. We have to think about 
it and it has to be thought out.

We're not trying to microwave major decisions. But I can tell you, we 
don't have enough time for those who want to play ''operation run the 
clock out'' and see how long can we go until we get that end date. My 
good friend from Pennsylvania was just here saying that there has to be 
an end date. On the lease of a car, there is a date that you've got to 
return the car back in. On a loan, there is a date that the loan has to 
be paid off. There is a date that it has to be paid.