# DELAWARE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
## `6b8042e1766b30d26220117ededa150c`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to welcome home the Delaware 
Army National Guard's 261st Tactical Signal Brigade from Iraq. Just 
over 1 year ago, on October 2, 2008, 110 brave citizen soldiers left 
behind their families in the great State of Delaware to serve their 
country with honor in Iraq. Nearly 1 year later, on September 30, 2009, 
all 110 members of the 261st returned to Dover Air Force Base to be 
reunited with their families.

I am extremely grateful that each member of the 261st has returned 
safely to Delaware, and I offer them my deep gratitude, respect, and 
admiration for their service. I know I speak for all Delawareans when I 
say just how proud I am of their contributions in Iraq.

Under the leadership of the Delaware National Guard Adjutant General, 
MAJ Frank Vavala, the 261st trained for 1 year to prepare for their 
deployment. Under the command of BG Scott Chambers they served with 
distinction at Camp Victory in Baghdad. I had the privilege of visiting 
the 261st in April and then again in September during my two visits to 
Iraq. I was enormously proud to see the tremendous work they were 
doing, and I was honored to spend time with these inspiring men and 
women from Delaware during my trip.

While in Iraq, the 261st played a critical role as the first National 
Guard unit to maintain and administer the communications network. They 
also ran the Baghdad Signal University which trained Iraqi nationals in 
communication skills. During each visit, I was impressed by the 
professionalism and the commitment of the members of the 261st. There 
is no question that their unique skill set and unwavering commitment 
greatly contributed to the U.S. mission in Iraq.

As we see progress in infrastructure and security in Iraq, it is due 
in no small part to the efforts of the Delaware National Guard. The 
261st worked tirelessly to share their expertise and knowledge with 
their Iraqi counterparts, expanding the Iraqi capacity to manage their 
own communications networks and systems. The families of the Guard can 
rest assured knowing that despite their great sacrifice over the past 
year and the difficulties they faced in being separated from their 
loved ones, the 261st left Iraq a better place because of their 
service.

The volunteers of the 261st are part of a proud and historic Delaware 
tradition. For decades, the 261st has served its country with great 
honor and distinction. Since 1924, it has deployed in times of need, 
first, as a part of the Delaware National Guard 261st Coast Artillery 
Battalion. The 261st was activated again on January 27, 1941, to 
participate in coastal defense operations during World War II. Since 
then, the mission of the 261st has evolved from defending the homeland 
to a broader global mission, such as that in Iraq, where it played a 
vital role in building communication networks and engaging in 
information operations.

We are truly fortunate as a nation to have so many dedicated 
volunteers willing to serve on the front lines defending our interests 
at home and abroad, and I am especially grateful to the 261st for their 
courageous service.

As we welcome this unit home from Delaware, we also send our prayers 
for the safe return of all of those serving our Nation in Afghanistan 
and Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.
