---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL WAR POWERS
## `6b8f0cac24de30c3910b8c884e6a6515`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 9 July 2008`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, yesterday Warren Christopher and James 
Baker released a groundbreaking report on the powers of the Congress 
and the White House about declaring war.

The Constitution is clear that only Congress has the right to declare 
war. Not only that, but Congress is granted the power of the purse. We 
in the Congress decide when it's appropriate to enter into armed 
conflict and then fulfill our commitment by fully funding and 
protecting our troops.

The publication may sound like dry stuff, another commission with 
another report. But that's not the case.

The fact that this report even needed to be written is noteworthy, 
however. It's noteworthy on its very own. Who would have thought that 
Members of Congress would need to be reminded of our constitutional 
duties? But the Baker-Christopher report is absolutely necessary, 
particularly now, as the administration's drumbeat for war with Iran 
builds.

We have seen over the past years how some have exploited the so-
called war on terror to mean war with anyone who does not agree with 
America. We have heard it before: ''If you're not with us, you're 
against us.'' Some even question the patriotism of those of us who have 
spoken up in opposition to some of the misguided policies of the White 
House, policies over the Iraq occupation, the loss of civil rights and 
liberties in the name of security, just as an example.

Recently, the New Yorker Magazine revealed that the administration 
sought up to $400 million to fund a major escalation of covert 
operations against Iran, described in a presidential finding--my 
colleague was just talking about those--signed by President Bush and 
designed to destabilize the country's religious leadership.

Mr. Speaker, you don't need a secret decoder ring to know what that 
means. How often does a country spend hundreds of millions of dollars 
to declare peace with another nation?

Congress must assert itself. We can't just be waiting around to be 
''consulted.'' Consulting, not an open hearing or floor debate, is 
exactly what got us where we are today. I just don't think that we can 
sit back and wait for the executive branch to come down here to us and 
ask our permission.

This Congress, and the American people, will not stand for another 
war. We must strengthen our diplomatic efforts and work at it 24 hours 
a day. This is not something we can wait until the next administration 
takes over or until the current one forces our hand.

Negotiating with Iran's leaders may not be the ideal situation for 
some, but for others and most of us know it is the best opportunity 
that we have. Wouldn't it be nice if we could only talk to our friends? 
Well, that's not the way it is. We don't need to talk to our friends. 
We have to talk to those with whom we have differences. We have to talk 
to our enemies. That's the only way we are going to bring about any 
kind of disarmament and any kind of nonproliferation because talking to 
friends won't bring about human rights. It certainly won't bring about 
regional stability. We must have dialogue with Iran and we must do it 
now.
