---
---

# RESOLUTIONS OF DISAPPROVAL
## `6b9475fc25044ea8ce809e08eb19d46c`
`Mr. BYRD — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. You bet.

Mr. LOTT [continuing]. Into the situation in Iraq. That is as it 
should be. I want to make it clear, this is not an effort to block 
debate. We could get an agreement, vitiate this vote this afternoon, 
and go right now into the debate. I think we ought to do that. What are 
the numbers and what resolutions will actually be offered, our leaders 
are going to work out.

But I do want to say this, too: If we really want to get to the 
debate about what is going to be the future there, we ought to be doing 
it in some way other than these nonbinding resolutions. This is a lot 
of sound and fury signifying nothing, so I question the whole process 
that we are under. I don't mind going forward. In fact, I want to go 
forward and have a full debate about what is going on here.

I recently had occasion to be at a meeting with a number of world 
leaders, and the discussion went back and forth. Finally, it came down 
to this: What do we do in Iraq? Stay, leave, or what? Well, they said: 
No, no, no, you can't leave. You have to stay. Then the question was, 
or then what? Well, they had no answer.

The President has been criticized for not coming forth with some 
changes to change the status quo. He did. Now he is being criticized 
with what he came


up with in this plan that we are going to be voting on later. I don't 
know if it is perfect. I don't know if it will work. But I do know 
this: he is the Commander in Chief.

We do need to change the dynamics there. We do need to go forward in 
a way that will produce a positive result or decide what else we are 
going to do. That is what the Senate, in the minds of our forefathers, 
was intended to do.

Let's stop questioning each other's motives or threatening to block 
this, block that. Let's work this out. Let's have a full debate on this 
issue, beginning tonight, going forward tomorrow. I think everybody 
will be satisfied with the results, once we actually get to some votes.

I yield the floor.