---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `6b9a5f016dae0e24ad6a9573848a9183`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 16 September 2009`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010, S. 1494, that the 
Senate has approved by unanimous consent.

The legislation is the product of a bipartisan effort in the 
Intelligence Committee, which was reflected by the committee's 
unanimous vote of 15 to 0 on the bill. I thank Vice Chairman Bond for 
his efforts on the legislation and the full committee staff for their 
work.

It has been 4 years since the Congress has passed and the President 
has signed an intelligence authorization act. This has meant that the 
law has not kept up with changes in the intelligence community and that 
Congress has not been able to require reforms and provide flexibilities 
that are sorely needed. I am pleased that the Senate has taken a major 
step toward enactment.

Before summarizing some of the key provisions of this legislation, 
let me briefly describe the way in which it was written.

The committee has worked with the Director of National Intelligence, 
DNI, ADM Dennis Blair, to identify areas where legislation is needed to 
better run and oversee the Nation's 16 intelligence agencies. Many of 
these provisions have been proposed and included in previous 
legislation reported out by the Intelligence Committee but have yet to 
be passed into law.

At the request of the White House, we have separated issues of 
terrorist detention and interrogation from this bill and the committee 
intends to take up legislation on those issues separately. The 
committee has not changed its position from previous legislation on the 
need to have an effective and humane interrogation program that 
operates fully within the nation's laws and international commitments.

The major themes of this bill are to strengthen the Director of 
National Intelligence to make sure that he has the management 
authorities and flexibilities needed to direct the intelligence 
community; insist upon stronger accountability and oversight mechanisms 
for intelligence activities, both within the executive branch and by 
the Congress; and to fund fully the intelligence community's share of 
the war efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan and the continuing 
counterterrorism operations against al-Qaida and other terrorist 
organizations worldwide.

There is also a classified annex to this bill, which lays out the 
authorized funding levels for the National Intelligence Program. The 
theme of the annex is to shift funds from intelligence activities that 
are less capable, lower priority, or not performing to those that will 
provide the Nation with better capabilities for intelligence 
collection, analysis, counterintelligence, and covert action.

The details of the classified annex are necessarily secret, but all 
Members are welcome to review them at the committee's offices at any 
time.

Let me describe some of the notable provisions in more detail.

To add to the management authorities of the Director of National 
Intelligence, the bill gives the Director of National Intelligence 
greater flexibility in personnel matters, including extending the 
length of time that personnel may be detailed to an intelligence agency 
to 3 years from the current 1 year. It also provides the Director, 
working with individual intelligence agencies, to shift or hire 
personnel by up to 5 percent above authorized personnel levels if 
intelligence requirements demand doing so. The bill authorizes the DNI 
to conduct accountability reviews of personnel and elements within the 
intelligence community, further clarifying that the Director is the 
senior official in the intelligence community. It seeks to prevent 
repetitions of information sharing problems by enabling the DNI to 
purchase necessary equipment or technology to improve information 
sharing with governmental departments or agencies regardless of whether 
they are part of the intelligence community. The bill also requires the 
intelligence community to continue putting in place the information 
technology necessary to assure information flows between its agencies.

The committee has longstanding concerns with the way the intelligence 
community has briefed, or has failed to brief, the congressional 
Intelligence Committees on all intelligence activities and covert 
actions. Two major controversies, over CIA detention and interrogation 
and over the warrantless surveillance program of the National Security 
Agency, were both briefed only to the chairman and vice chairman of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. The rest of the committee's membership 
was unaware of these programs for years.

The bill strengthens the statutory requirements to keep the 
congressional intelligence committees ''fully and currently informed'' 
of intelligence activities and covert actions. The legislation makes 
clear that there is no exception to the obligation to brief Congress on 
intelligence activities and covert actions; requires that notifications 
include a description of the legal authority on which activities are 
undertaken; and requires that all committee members be provided with 
the broad outlines--the ''main features''--of intelligence programs in 
those instances where the sensitive operational details are provided 
only to a limited number of Senators.

In addition to ensuring that notifications to the Congress are 
conducted, the bill includes a number of additional provisions intended 
to strengthen intelligence oversight. These include creating an 
independent inspector general, confirmed by the Senate, to help the DNI 
oversee the intelligence community and strengthening the inspectors 
general of the National Security Agency, NSA, Defense Intelligence 
Agency, DIA, National Reconnaissance Office, NRO, and National 
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, NGA, by listing them


under the Inspector General Act of 1978.

They include requiring Senate confirmation for the Directors of the 
National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, the 
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and for the Deputy Director of 
the CIA. For several years, the Intelligence Committee has viewed these 
positions as holding substantial budgetary and policy responsibilities.

They also include improving the intelligence community's ability to 
budget, manage finances, and run program acquisitions. I am unable to 
state publicly why these provisions are so important, but it is fair to 
say that intelligence agencies have had major failures in this regard. 
In this bill, we have sought to apply best practices from other parts 
of the government to intelligence community management and acquisitions 
with the goal of more efficiently and effectively using taxpayer 
dollars to fund intelligence activities.

Finally, while I am unable to provide specifics due to reasons of 
classification, let me highlight five other parts of the bill and its 
classified annex that merit recognition.

Satellites. To address a problem created by years of mismanagement 
and acquisition failures, the annex to this bill recommends a more 
capable and more affordable imagery satellite architecture that 
addresses the requirements of both our civilian policymakers and 
military warfighters.

Languages. As our committee report notes, the intelligence 
community's language capabilities are abysmal. This bill authorizes 
increased funding to significantly improve language proficiencies. 
Rather than funding separate initiatives across the various 
intelligence agencies, this funding is provided to the Director of 
National Intelligence for allocation and coordination to maximize 
effectiveness.

Research and Development. The U.S. intelligence community leads the 
world in the technical collection of intelligence. This success is the 
result of decades of investment in research and development. The annex 
to this bill recommends increases in investment on research and 
development to return to the level of funding necessary to maintain the 
nation's technological edge.

Cybersecurity. The committee has held numerous hearings with the 
Acting Senior Director for Cybersecurity in the National Security 
Council, the Director of the National Security Agency, and the 
committee's Technical Advisory Group. I believe strongly that cyber 
attack and espionage by adversary nations and nonstate actors pose a 
grave threat to our Nation's national and economic security. I also 
believe, however, that initiatives underway to provide for security of 
the government's cyber networks need to be implemented and overseen 
carefully to ensure that privacy rights are upheld.

For this reason, the bill includes a provision that establishes a 
framework for executive and congressional oversight for cybersecurity. 
Specifically, it requires reporting to Congress on the legal 
authorities for cyber-security programs, privacy assessments, and 
details of the concept of operations for these activities. The 
provision also requires thorough auditing of cyber-security programs by 
the relevant inspectors general, especially to determine compliance 
with law and privacy rights. Finally, the provision authorizes the 
detail of cyber experts from the intelligence community to the 
Department of Homeland Security and FBI to assist in their roles in 
cyber defense and law enforcement. The annex to the bill also adjusts 
funding levels to ensure that the President's request for cyber-
security activities are appropriately funded and are proceeding under 
clear legal and policy guidance.

Report on compliance with laws related to detention and 
interrogation. As I noted, the administration and our committee 
continue to conduct reviews of detention and interrogation practices 
begun after September 11, 2001. This bill requires the DNI to report on 
how the intelligence community complies with all laws, international 
obligations, and executive orders related to the detention and 
interrogation of persons under their control.

Following the reporting of our bill on July 22, we have worked with 
three committees of the Senate to resolve several questions.

We have worked with the Armed Services Committee to develop a Senate 
resolution that will govern the sequence of referral, between that 
committee and the Intelligence Committee, of nominations for Director 
of the National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, 
and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. That resolution has 
the support of Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain of the Armed 
Services Committee, as well as having my and Vice Chairman Bond's 
support. I will address the proposed resolution in a separate colloquy 
today with Chairman Levin.

We have worked with Ranking Member Cochran of the Appropriations 
Committee on an agreement to strike, in a managers' amendment, section 
341 of the bill that would have expressed the sense of the Senate on an 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Intelligence. That internal Senate 
matter will continue to be discussed within the Senate but will not be 
a part of this bill.

We have worked with Chairman Leahy of the Judiciary Committee to 
resolve several matters. The managers' amendment that Vice Chairman 
Bond and I have offered amends three provisions which require the 
submission of reports on various matters. The purpose of the amendments 
to sections 336, 407, and 445 is to ensure that the Judiciary Committee 
receives reports on matters within its jurisdiction. In consultation 
with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the managers' 
amendment amends section 411 on a FOIA operational file exemption to 
state more precisely the intent of the provision. The managers' 
amendment also strikes section 352 that establishes a FOIA exemption 
for terrorist identity information that is disseminated for terrorist 
screening purposes. As a comparable provision has been reported in the 
House, we expect that the provision will be the subject of further 
consideration at conference.

Mr. President, the vice chairman and I have worked hard to produce 
bipartisan legislation that provides the intelligence community with 
the tools and resources needed to keep the Nation safe and to inform 
decisionmakers. This bill does just that. It strikes a balance between 
allowing intelligence agencies the latitude to conduct their operations 
while ensuring their legality and efficiency.

I very much appreciate the Senate's approval of this legislation and 
look forward to bringing a conference report to the Senate as soon as 
possible.