# None
## `6b9df7ac8f17ffebc901fa64c7ee35e7`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I just think in the end this is about 
choices, Mr. Altmire. Mr. Ryan was talking about it before. This is 
about whether you want to continue to throw billions upon billions of 
dollars into a war in Iraq that, frankly, is probably making this 
country less safe rather than more safe as it breeds terrorism and 
Islamic jihadists within the boundaries of Iraq.

It's about whether you want to continue to give away $12 to $18 
billion of tax breaks to the oil companies that the oil companies 
themselves say they don't need to continue putting products into the 
American market. Do you want to continue to subsidize the drug 
industry, which is making out like bandits off of a prescription drug 
program that pads their pockets and their profits, as we just found out 
from a new report from the Government Oversight Committee that tells us 
that we're wasting $15 billion a year on the Medicare prescription drug 
program.

You want to help drug companies or poor kids? Do you want to help oil 
companies or poor kids? Do you want to throw more money in a religious 
civil war, or do you want to help poor kids? I mean, the reason why 
these polls, one after another, come out pleading with Congress to get 
its act together and pass children's health care is because everybody 
out there in the community, at the social halls, at the union halls, at 
the churches, at the synagogues, at the pasta suppers and the pancake 
breakfasts, the PTA, they've all figured out that we're making the 
wrong choice; that in the end the choice is easy. You help middle-class 
families afford college. You help them get health care. You boost their 
wages up to a livable wage, and you can do that without spending 
another dime in taxpayer money in the end. I mean, that's the great 
thing. You don't want to have to raise anybody's taxes to do it. You 
just make different choices. Iraq, oil companies, drug companies, 
instead, minimum wage, health care, kids going to college. I mean, that 
seems like common sense, Mr. Ryan.