---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6b9f2be54aaf638a07002c114a2c078c`
`Mr. COSTELLO — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. COSTELLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1591, but 
with some reservations. While I appreciate the care with which Speaker 
Pelosi, Chairman Obey and the Democratic leadership have approached 
this supplemental appropriations bill, we are left, as we often are, 
with a flawed product. But I do believe, in regard to Iraq, that it is 
the best we are able to do right now.

The legislation for the first time establishes performance benchmarks 
for the Iraqi military and government, and firmly states that it is 
time to bring the troops home sooner rather than later. I did not vote 
to authorize the Iraq war, and I do not support President Bush's troop 
surge, but if this bill does not pass we will be forced to pass a 
funding bill that does not have these benchmarks, and that would be 
nothing more than the status quo, which is a blank check for President 
Bush. I say again, I do not support everything in this legislation, but 
it is the best alternative available to us at the present time.

I am particularly troubled by the non-military and non-veteran 
spending in this bill. While I


support more funding for some of the important needs addressed here, 
particularly domestic spending priorities that have been severely 
neglected by the Bush administration over the last 6 years, they would 
be better considered elsewhere. The bill does address serious 
deficiencies in our veterans' health care system, and I whole-heartedly 
support this funding. We have a great deal more work to do to ensure 
that the brave men and women who defend this country are fully 
supported upon their return home, but this is a good start.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation, like the war itself, presents us with 
tough choices. I will support the bill, and by doing so send a signal 
that it is time for the Iraqis to also make tough political decisions 
and take control of their own destiny. My thoughts and prayers are with 
our troops and their families, and I will continue to work for their 
speedy return.