---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `6ba79f56d86779287cbc245a38b924ef`
`Mr. BYRD — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, over 3,000 Americans are dead--dead, 
dead--and over 23,000 Americans are wounded as a result of the war in 
Iraq. Our military leaders say that our Armed Forces are stretched 
almost to the breaking point. We have spent almost $400 billion, and 
the number continues to go up, up, up. But the United States Senate is 
mired incredibly in a debate about the ability even to have a debate 
about our Nation's future course in Iraq. Surely, no one in this Senate 
can be so fearful of debate on a nonbinding resolution concerning the 
President's plan to send some 40,000 additional troops to Iraq that 
they fail to hear the voices of over 70 percent of the American people 
out there who now oppose our involvement in this war. But apparently 
some in the Senate are afraid of such a debate.

Some of my colleagues have indicated that they will vote against the 
motion to proceed to debate on this straightforward resolution, which 
expresses disagreement with the President's plan. While our brave 
fighting men and women put their lives on the line in Iraq, this Senate 
stands paralyzed--paralyzed, paralyzed, I say. The United States 
Senate--the greatest deliberative body in the whole world--is probably 
the only place in this wonderful land of America where this debate is 
not--is not--taking place.

How can some express unwavering support for the troops if they quake 
in the face of a debate about their safety? Our troops are stretched 
thin. They are weary after deployment and redeployment. Post-traumatic 
stress disorder and mental problems--yes--are rife in the troops. Lost 
limbs and physical mutilation have scarred many of these young people 
for life. Scores of families weep--yes, they weep--every night for 
their lost loved ones. And yet many in this Senate claim to support the 
troops, while those same many steadfastly refuse to debate an ill-
advised escalation--yes, an ill-advised escalation--of this war which 
almost nobody but nobody supports.

Can one claim support for the troops while acquiescing in a policy 
that only sinks our forces deeper into a civil war? Can any of us look 
in the mirror while we stonewall the concerns of the American people 
and engage in some political fandango to prevent discussion of our 
engagement in Iraq?

Madam President, if it will help to bring our soldiers home, I will 
work every Saturday for the rest of this Congress. I will stand here, 
right here on this floor, of this Senate every day, 24 hours every day 
if it would mean one less family without a son or a daughter. Hear me.