---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `6bb034e715812a92cc00b52fa90057d1`
`Mr. BYRD — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, on May 15, 2007, President Bush nominated 
LTG Douglas Lute as Assistant to the President and Deputy National 
Security Adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan. In that position, Lieutenant 
General Lute is to be charged with coordinating the efforts of the 
executive branch to support our commanders and senior diplomats on the 
ground in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I am voting against the nomination of LTG Douglas Lute, not because 
he is unqualified for the position but because the White House refuses 
to permit him to testify before those Members of Congress responsible 
for the oversight and funding of these conflicts. Article 2, section II 
of the Constitution makes it clear that the power to appoint certain 
officers involves the advice and consent of the Senate. I can imagine 
no circumstance where the President may require policy advice and 
guidance from an Active Duty military officer regarding ongoing 
conflicts and issues relevant to Congress's oversight responsibilities 
to which Congress should not be equally capable of hearing in either 
public or closed forums as appropriate. To do otherwise may raise 
popular suspicion that all is not on the ''up and up'' with the way the 
President is conducting this war.

I am also concerned that putting a general in this position will 
leave the military open to inferences by the administration that it is 
the military, rather than George W. Bush, who is responsible for the 
failed policies in Iraq. After 5 years of conflict in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, the President, his Cabinet, and his existing staff should have 
long ago figured out how to coordinate executive branch support to our 
commanders and senior diplomats in the field, without needing to put a 
military officer in charge of coordinating the civilian arms of 
government.

Repeatedly, the President has appointed a new military officer to a 
leadership position and Congress has allowed the nomination to proceed 
without objection. The White House then turns the cooperation of 
Congress into yet another sound bite to prolong the prosecution of the 
President's failed policy. How many times have we heard that General 
Petraeus was confirmed unanimously and that we ''just need to give him 
time''? The President has had 4/1/2/ years to show progress. Instead, 
the situation continues to worsen in Iraq.

I, for one, will not vote to give the President another military 
officer to blame or another unanimous vote to exploit to delay bringing 
home our troops. I will not accept the President's claim that a 
military officer advising the President on two ongoing conflicts should 
not be required to testify before Congress on the progress of this long 
and disastrous war.

I will, therefore, vote against the confirmation of Lieutenant 
General Lute to this position.