# THE ECONOMY
## `6bc17bdcd326609a57d765b0241dbeed`
`Mr. SANDERS — 18 September 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, I would like to focus on three aspects 
of the current economic and financial crisis that is wreaking havoc on 
tens of millions of working families throughout our country and, in 
fact, people throughout the world. I think the questions we have to 
deal with are, No. 1, how did this crisis develop; No. 2, what can we 
do in the short term to address it and to protect middle-class 
families--people who are scared to death all over our country about 
losing their 401(k)s, people who are worried about losing their jobs, 
people who can't afford health insurance today--and, No. 3, what can we 
do long term to learn from the mistakes of today so that we create an 
economy where this crisis never erupts again.

I think those are the areas we might want to be focusing on right 
now.

Madam President, we are here today in the midst of the most serious 
financial and economic crisis that our country has faced since the 
Great Depression of the 1930s primarily--primarily--because of one 
reason; and that is, over the last many years, especially in the last 8 
years of President George W. Bush, government policy, government 
ideology has been dominated by an extreme rightwing position that tells 
us--and we have heard it over and over and over again on the floor of 
the Senate--that government is bad, government is evil, government has 
to get out of the way so we can allow large multinational corporations 
and the wealthiest people in this country to do all of the wonderful 
things they will do to create prosperity for all Americans.

Now, among specific policies, what President Bush and others of that 
view have said is it is important for us to give huge tax breaks--
trillions of dollars in tax breaks--to the wealthiest people and 
largest corporations in our country so they will then invest in 
America, create good-paying jobs, and their wealth will trickle on 
down. That is the trickle-on-down theory of economics.

In fact, my friend, Senator Kyl, who just spoke a moment ago, is the 
lead advocate, along with Senator McCain and many other Republicans, of 
the repeal of the estate tax that would provides $1 trillion in tax 
breaks over a 20-year period to the wealthiest three-tenths of 1 
percent. Three-tenths of 1 percent receive $1 trillion in tax breaks. 
That is part of that ideology.

Further, what they have said is, we need to not worry about 
manufacturing in America because what we should establish is a policy 
of unfettered free trade. We don't need tariffs. What we need is to 
allow corporate America the freedom to throw American workers out on 
the street--people who are making 15, 20, 25 bucks an hour, health 
care, pensions--because somehow we are going to create wealth in 
America and good-paying jobs in America as we shut down plants, we move 
to China, and corporations there pay workers 20, 30 cents an hour, and 
we bring the products back into this country. Anyone who goes shopping 
in a mall knows how difficult it is today to find a product made in 
America, but that is a plus.

I have to say, in that regard, the champion--and he is honest on this 
one. Senator McCain has been criticized recently for not being the most 
honest candidate we have seen in terms of his answers and so forth, but 
he has been honest on this one. He has been the lead advocate of 
unfettered free trade. This is an important part of this rightwing 
ideology: that it is good for America that corporations can go to China 
and bring products back into this country. But the third pillar of this 
rightwing ideology that I want to discuss this afternoon, and perhaps 
the most pertinent to the crisis we are now facing, is over and over 
again what we have heard from President Bush, what we have heard from 
Senator McCain, what we have heard from many of our Republican friends 
is, deregulate, deregulate, deregulate; that the government has to get 
out of the way so that ExxonMobil and the other large multinational 
corporations can do all of the wonderful things they will do to create 
wealth in America.

I will just give one example. It is not a major example but a 
humorous example. All over this country, Madam President, parents who 
have little kids who play with toys have been worrying about the toys 
and the quality of the toys coming into this country. It was recently 
learned that at the Consumer Product Safety Commission, because of that 
ideology of deregulation, there was one guy, one person whose job it 
was to test all of the toys, thousands of different types of toys 
coming in from China and every other country in the world--many of them 
unhealthy, many of them having toxic ingredients in them. Because of 
deregulation, because we have great faith in these companies bringing 
toys in from China, we didn't even have to have a strong regulatory 
system. I am happy we have moved in that direction in the last few 
months, but that was the case.


The deregulation mantra goes obviously a lot deeper than toys. Let me 
focus for a moment on this issue of deregulation because it is at the 
heart of the current financial crisis we are facing. I want to say a 
word about the


former Senator who, it turned out, was the chief economic adviser to 
Senator McCain and who actually was the leader on deregulation.

I know in politics things change from yesterday to today. I have not 
heard Senator McCain's last pronouncement. I guess he wants to regulate 
everything today. But yesterday and in the rest of his career he was a 
champion of deregulation and his major economic adviser was a gentleman 
named Senator Phil Gramm, formally the Senator from Texas.

To review a little bit of what Senator Gramm's role was in pushing us 
toward this deregulatory society, as chairman of the Senate Banking 
Committee in 1999, Senator Gramm spearheaded legislation that bears his 
name. It is not a great secret, it is his legislation, the so-called 
*Gramm-Leach-Bliley bill, and that broke down critical regulatory 
safeguards the Government had put in place after the Great Depression 
to prevent--what? To prevent exactly what we are seeing today. Senator 
Gramm spearheaded that effort and broke down those firewalls.

Having laid the groundwork for our crisis in the financial sector, 
the very next year Senator Phil Gramm is credited--and I do not think 
there is a lot of debate about this--with slipping into a large 
unrelated bill legislation that deregulated the electronic energy 
markets, including, of course, oil. There are leading energy 
economists--who have testified over and over again just this week, 
among other committee hearings before Congress--who are telling us that 
as a result of the deregulation of the energy futures market, 50 
percent of the cost of oil, when it was at its peak of $147 a barrel--
50 percent of that was due to speculation and that speculation was 
allowed to take place because of the deregulation of the energy futures 
market spearheaded by Senator Gramm.

We are seeing what deregulation did to the financial institutions, 
what it has done to energy prices, but that is not enough. Senator 
Gramm was a very aggressive and a very effective, if I might say so, 
Senator. As we all know, the Federal Government is in the process of 
nationalizing AIG and bailing them out to the tune of $85 billion. AIG, 
as we all know, is the world's largest insurance company.

It also turns out that the AIG situation is closely tied to the same 
extremist ideology that has been pushing us toward economic disaster. A 
key part of the responsibility for AIG's collapse lies once again with 
this same key Member of the Senate, Senator Phil Gramm, and his 
rightwing ideology. It turns out that Senator Gramm slipped a 262-page 
amendment--I always find it amusing how you can ''slip'' a 262-page 
amendment--into a larger bill that was instrumental in creating, and I 
know this number is a little bit difficult for anybody in the world to 
digest, a $62 trillion market for very risky, unregulated financial 
investments called credit default swaps, that are central to AIG's 
meltdown.

This is extremely complicated. Very few people understand anything 
about it. But we are talking about an unregulated $62 trillion market 
for credit default swaps, which played a major role in the collapse of 
AIG and the fact that the Federal Government is now in the process of 
bailing that company out.

As an online article from Time Magazine explains, AIG's traditional 
insurance business was doing well. In other words, when they were in 
the business that they had historically been in, actually they did 
quite well. But what AIG got involved in was more than traditional 
insurance. They got involved in risky derivative schemes called credit 
default swaps, or CDSs, that allowed big companies to guarantee each 
other's risky lending practices. The point here in this whole 
complicated scheme of things is that all of this is deregulated 
primarily because of the efforts of Senator Gramm. The big, bad Federal 
Government no longer can protect consumers, can protect our economy 
because we are going to trust all of these guys who are playing in a 
$60-plus trillion business.

In order to give the American people a full understanding of the 
risks posed by these unregulated credit default swaps, I wish to quote 
briefly from a September 15 article by Professor Peter Cohen, a 
graduate of the Wharton School, that details the full scope of the 
problem we face and the role Senator Gramm had in its creation. Let me 
quote from Professor Cohen.




 Lurking in the background of this collapse of two of Wall 


 Street's biggest names, is a $62 billion segment of the $450 


 trillion market for derivatives that grew huge thanks to John 


 McCain's chief economic advisor, Phil . . . Gramm. That's 


 because in December 2000, Gramm, while a U.S. Senator, snuck 


 in a 262-page amendment to a government reauthorization bill 


 that created what is now the $62 trillion market for credit 


 default swaps. I realize it is painful to read about yet 


 another Wall Street acronym, but this is important because it 


 will help us understand why the global financial markets are 


 collapsing. . . . CDSs are like insurance policies for 


 bondholders. In exchange for a premium, the bondholders get 


 insurance in case the bondholder can't pay. . . . In the case 


 of the $1.4 trillion worth of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 


 bonds, the Government's nationalization last Sunday triggered 


 the CDSs on those bonds. The people who received the CDS 


 premiums are now obligated to deliver those bonds to the ones 


 who paid the premiums.


Professor Cohen continues:




 Gramm's 262-page amendment, dubbed the ''Commodity Futures 


 Modernization Act,'' according to the Texas Observer, freed 


 financial institutions from oversight of their CDS 


 transactions. Prior to its passage, they say, banks 


 underwrote mortgages and were responsible for the risks 


 involved. Now through the use of CDSs--which in theory insure 


 the banks against bad debts--those risks are passed along to 


 insurance companies and others . . .


wrote the Texas Observer. I will not go on.

The bottom line is Gramm, who is McCain's leading financial adviser, 
spearheaded the effort to deregulate financial services that opened up 
this huge unregulated market. The result of that has played a 
significant role in placing us where we are right now.

We can go on and on. This is complicated stuff and I am sure there 
are people who can talk about this for many hours. In my view, the time 
for hand wringing is over. What we have to understand is the efforts of 
President Bush to ''deregulate, deregulate,'' and those of Senator 
Gramm, Senator McCain and many others, was wrong. It largely 
contributed to where we are today.

It seems to me that Congress right now needs to put an end to this 
radical deregulation. We need to put the safety walls back up in the 
financial services market.

I was a member of the Banking Committee in the House in 1999 when 
this whole issue was discussed. Many of us then--a minority, but some 
of us then--saw exactly what was in line to occur. Some of us at least 
voted against it.

What we have to do now is understand that we need to reregulate the 
electronics energy markets, we need to end the unregulated credit 
default swaps. Unfortunately, the response we have been hearing from 
the administration and from Wall Street is not to do that but in fact 
to move us in another direction, which is to push for further 
consolidation in the financial services sector.

I have a very simple question. Do I hope I am wrong on this one, but 
I fear I may not be. That question is: What happens when these now even 
bigger entities, these multi-multi-multibillion dollar corporations--
what happens when they run into trouble in the future? None of us hope 
that happens, but what happens if that does occur? Once again, clearly, 
it will be the American people who will be on the hook.


This country can no longer afford companies that are too big to fail. 
If a company is so large that its failure would cause systemic harm to 
our economy, if it is too big to fail, then it is too big to exist. 
What we need to do right now is to assess which companies fall into 
this category.

For a start, I don't think you need to be a Ph.D. in economics to 
understand this. I think Bank of America, if I may be allowed to say 
so, is certainly one of those companies. Let's take a look at Bank of 
America. It is the largest depository institution in our country. It 
has assets of $1.7 trillion; $711 billion of that money comes from bank 
deposits representing over 10 percent of all bank deposits in the 
entire country--one bank, 10 percent of all bank deposits.

In August, the Bank of America bought Countrywide, the largest 
mortgage lender in the country. And then last week it bought Merrill 
Lynch, the largest brokerage firm in America. There is so much 
concentration of wealth in the Bank of America that clearly, if it were 
to fall in the future,


what do you think the U.S. Government is going to say? You can 
absolutely expect that the President or the Congress will say: My God, 
we can't allow Bank of America to fall. Because if they fall, it will 
impact the entire national economy, the entire world economy. The 
taxpayers of this country are going to have to bail out Bank of 
America.

My suggestion is before we allow ourselves to be in that position, 
maybe we make certain the Bank of America never is allowed to have that 
kind of power.

In my view, we should not be making Bank of America bigger; we should 
be breaking it up. We should start that process today and we should be 
breaking up other large financial institutions that are ''too big to 
fail.''

Finally, in terms of dealing with this unfolding disaster, we need to 
make certain that working Americans, the middle class of this country, 
are not asked to foot the bill for the current economic crisis that was 
brought to us by these large multinationals. If the economic calamity 
requires a Federal bailout, it should be paid for by those people who 
actually benefited from the reckless behavior of people empowered by 
the extreme economic views of Senator Gramm, President Bush, and 
Senator McCain.

Right now, today, the wealthiest one-tenth of 1 percent earns more 
income than the bottom 50 percent. That gap between the very rich and 
everybody else is growing wider. We have the dubious distinction of 
having by far the most unequal distribution of income in the world, and 
on top of that the richest 1 percent owns more wealth than the bottom 
90 percent.

The wealthiest 400 Americans--this is a startling figure that for 
obvious reasons people don't talk about too much, but this is amazing. 
The wealthiest 400 Americans in this country have not only seen their 
incomes double, but their net worth has increased by $670 billion since 
President Bush has been in office. Four hundred families have seen 
their net worth double and increase by $670 billion since President 
Bush has been in office.

Amazingly, the wealthiest 400 families in our country are now worth 
over $1.5 trillion--400 families. On average they earn over $214 
million a year. As a result of President Bush's policies and the 
policies of our Republican colleague, the tax rate for these families 
has been cut almost in half, to 18 percent.

Amazingly--and this is a clearly a national disgrace--the wealthiest 
400 families pay a much lower tax rate than most police officers do, 
than nurses do, than teachers do, than firefighters do.

Now, what does this say about us as a nation or about our politics, 
or the power of the wealthy over Government, when the middle class is 
paying a greater percentage of their income, a middle class which is in 
decline, a middle class where millions of workers have seen a reduction 
in their wages, and yet they are paying a higher percentage of their 
income in taxes than the very richest people in America?

It is this very small segment of our population which has made out 
like bandits, frankly, during the Bush administration. In my view, we 
need an emergency tax on those at the very top to pay for any losses 
the Federal Government suffers as a result of efforts to shore up the 
economy.

In other words, before we ask the middle class to pay more in taxes, 
before we ask working families to pay more in taxes, it is obvious to 
me that it is simply fair and right to go to those groups, that group 
of people who have benefited most out of Bush's policies, who have seen 
their incomes and their wealth soar. Let's ask them to help us bail out 
the economy rather than the working families who had nothing, nothing 
to do with this crisis, and, in fact, who have suffered under the 8 
years of President Bush.

Before I finish, I wish to step back for a moment and examine this 
current crisis in the context of who our Government represents. What 
does it say about an administration that is prepared to put $85 billion 
at risk to bail out AIG but which has fought tooth and nail against 
programs that benefit working families all over this country? In my 
State of Vermont, people are worried about going cold this winter. And 
yet President Bush wanted to make hundreds of millions of dollars in 
cutbacks for the LIHEAP program that keeps people warm because we did 
not have enough money to do it.

We have enough money to provide hundreds of billions of tax breaks 
for the top 1 percent, we have enough money to spend $10 billion every 
month in Iraq, we have enough money to bail out AIG and Bear Stearns, 
but somehow we do not have enough money to keep people warm, to make 
sure that young people can go to college, to make sure that working 
people have affordable housing?

Since George W. Bush has been in office, nearly 6 million Americans 
have slipped out of the middle class and into poverty; over 7 million 
Americans have lost their health insurance; more than 4 million 
Americans have lost their pensions; over 3 million good-paying 
manufacturing jobs have been lost; total consumer debt has more than 
doubled; the median income for working-age Americans has gone down by 
over $2,000, after adjusting for inflation.

The interesting question to ask is, in the midst of that crisis 
facing tens of millions of working families, where has President Bush 
been? Where has his voice been in saying we have got to bail out 
working families who are seeing the decline in their standard of living 
and are falling into poverty? We have got to protect old people who are 
going to go cold this winter. We have to make sure that everyone in our 
country is able to get a decent education and can afford college. We 
have got to make sure that all Americans have health insurance. I have 
not heard the President say we need to bail out the middle class or 
working families, but he surely has been there to bail out large 
multinational corporations.

The American people deserve better. We need to reject the failed 
economic policies and priorities of President Bush and John McCain. We 
need a government that is not going to allow the wealthiest people and 
the largest corporations to loot our economy. We need a government that 
will put regulatory firewalls back in the financial sector and end the 
use of unregulated credit swaps. We need a government that is going to 
prevent speculators from stealing from them at the gas pump. We need a 
government that breaks up corporations that are too big to fail. We 
need a government that is going to view the problems of ordinary 
Americans as almost as important as they view the needs of large 
multinational corporations.

In other words, we need a government that represents the people of 
this country rather than just the wealthy and large multinationals.

I yield the floor.