---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `6bc349d1f3fd78e34932d76d85691d3d`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Chairman, I very much appreciate the job that you 
and the ranking member and the staff and members of the committee have 
done in putting this bill together. It is an appropriate balance.

Madam Chairman, the bill appropriately balances the needs of all of 
our branches and all of the different defense needs that we have, both 
present and future, whether it's in space or land or air or on the 
water. What I want to particularly mention is that part of the bill 
that contemplates the kinds of conflicts that we are likely to have in 
the future and how we need to organize ourselves to better address 
those conflicts.

We have found, with our experience in Afghanistan and Iraq most 
recently, but historically with our experience in Vietnam, that our 
conventional force has a very difficult time dealing with the kind of 
conflicts that we are seeing in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the kind of 
conflict that we saw in Vietnam.

In Vietnam and today, we learned lessons, and those lessons are 
reflected in some of the things that we have in the committee's report 
and in the bill itself. We contemplate, for example, that in the 
Special Operations Command, more emphasis will be placed upon special 
forces and building partner capacity and developing partnerships 
globally that can enable us to work effectively with indigenous 
populations since, frankly, those indigenous populations are the ones 
that are going to have to be principally responsible for security 
issues within those countries.

We are in a new era here across the globe. Angry individuals have 
access to information that can enable them to develop very lethal 
weapons. Robert Wright describes this as the ''growing lethality of 
hatred.'' It's a new era. It requires a new approach.

I think this bill heads in that direction, and I expect over the 
future years will head even more in that direction. That approach has 
to involve effective partnerships with security forces worldwide to 
keep an eye out for the kinds of threats that can be brought home to 
the United States.

I thank the gentleman for his leadership.