# None
## `6bc498850966dd4b54b7b2e3de23ac81`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 18 November 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, I decided some long while ago that I was 
going to leave the Congress after serving 30 years. So at the end of 
this year, I will conclude my work here in the U.S. Congress. But I was 
thinking--sitting in the Chamber, listening to my two colleagues, for 
whom I have great respect and profound disagreements with--I was 
thinking about how interesting it is that people of good faith--and 
they are two Senators of good faith--can feel very strongly about an 
issue. I feel differently about some of the issues they just described, 
and I sat here and resisted the urge to jump up every 5 or 10 minutes 
and engage in that discussion.

It is not a difference of opinion about whether we would like the 
American people to pay the lowest rate of taxes possible; it is, 
rather, in my judgment, about the rearview mirror of history, when 
historians gather 50 and 100 years from now and look back at this 
moment and say: All right, where was America then?

Well, America had a $13 trillion debt, a $1.3 trillion deficit. We 
are sending men and women off to war by the hundreds of thousands, 
strapping on body armor in the morning, getting shot at in the 
afternoon. About 20 million people are either unemployed or not working 
up to their potential because they could not find the job that fits 
them. There are record numbers of people on food stamps. So that is 
where America was then. And what was the debate on the floor of the 
Congress? How can you further cut revenue? How can you borrow money 
from the Chinese in order to give those who make $1 million a year a 
$100,000 a year tax cut? They are going to say: Are you kidding me? 
That is what the discussion was? Wasn't there discussion about whether 
it was wise to borrow $4 trillion more to extend tax cuts that came in 
2001 because the President--then-President George W. Bush--felt we were 
going to have surpluses forever? The first surplus was the year before 
he took office, the last year of Bill Clinton, the first budget surplus 
in 30 years. Then they said: OK, we predict we are going to have 
surpluses for the next 10. President Bush said: Well, let's give them 
back, with very big tax cuts, the bulk of which go to upper income 
folks. I didn't vote for that. I thought: Why don't we be a little 
conservative? What if something happens? Well, it did--a terrorist 
attack, a recession, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, debt as far as the 
eye can see, soldiers at war--and the discussion is how to further cut 
taxes, especially for upper income Americans. I am telling my 
colleagues, it is going to confound and confuse some future economists, 
how on Earth that could have been the major debate of the day in the 
Congress at this moment.


There is no preordained destiny for this country that this country 
will always be the dominant world power. That is not preordained. That 
will happen if this country begins again to make good decisions and 
tough decisions. People think times are tough now. They have been 
tougher in this country. Our parents and grandparents and those who 
came before them, those who homesteaded in sod huts, those


who traveled and populated this country out of wagon trains under the 
Homestead Act to go and buy a place and build a farm and raise a 
family, they had it tough, but they built communities and built a 
country and they did the right things. They made tough decisions. It is 
not a tough decision for us to say all 100 of us want tax cuts--well, I 
would like it if nobody paid taxes, if nobody had to pay taxes. But who 
is going to pay for the cost of things we do together, such as build 
schools to educate kids, build roads to travel, pay for defense so we 
can protect this country and on and on and on?

So I didn't come to talk about that, but I couldn't resist at least 
the urge to say our requirement for this country is to look well ahead 
and to ask: How do we retain the capability in this country so we will 
still remain a world economic power? This country needs jobs. This 
country needs the resurrection of a manufacturing base. We will not 
long remain as a country, a world economic power, if we don't have 
world-class manufacturing capability--making stuff--making things that 
say ''Made in America.'' That ought to be the discussion: how to put 
America back to work. There is no social program as important as a good 
job that pays well, and too many Americans are out of work at this 
point with a sick economy. The solution is not a tax cut for everybody. 
That is akin to going to a quack doctor who has only one recipe. He has 
a jug of thick brown liquid, and no matter what you have--the hiccups, 
gout, liver trouble--he ladles out some thick brown liquid, and he 
says: There it is. Take that and it will make you better.

We have people who have that vision here. Any urge, any itch, give 
them a tax cut. How about the Federal budget deficit? How about 
controlling spending? Yes, we have to control some spending and cut the 
deficit. Let's cut some spending and let's ask people who should be 
paying taxes and aren't now to pay their fair share of taxes. That is 
what we ought to do.

All right. I have that at least a little bit out of my system today.


















 Energy


I came to talk about something else. I came to talk about unfinished 
business toward the end of this year. There is still the ability to 
reclaim some success in an area that I think is very important. It is 
true, as I have just described, that jobs are very important in this 
country. It is also true that the economy, fiscal policy, debt, and 
deficits are very important and we need to get a hold on them and deal 
with them and respond to them and fix this country's economy. But it is 
also important that we need to address the subject of energy, and we 
have tried; we have tried so hard. We can decide it doesn't matter 
much. We can act as though it is irrelevant. But then tomorrow morning, 
just for a moment, what if all the American people couldn't turn on or 
off the alarm clock or turn on the light or turn on the hot water 
heater to take a hot shower or turn on the toaster or the coffee maker? 
What if they couldn't turn on the ignition to get to work? What if they 
didn't have lights at work? We use energy 100 ways before we start work 
and never, ever think about it. What if the switch didn't work? What if 
the tank wasn't full?

Let me describe the danger because this is not irrelevant. It is not 
an idle issue that this country could very well find itself belly side 
up with an economy that couldn't work because we couldn't find the 
energy we need. About 60 percent of the oil we need and use in this 
country comes from other countries. I have described hundreds of times 
on the floor that we stick little straws in the Earth and we suck out 
oil. About 85 million barrels a day is sucked out of this planet. On 
this little spot called the United States of America, we need to use 
one-fourth of it. One-fourth of everything we suck out of this Earth 
has to come to the U.S.A. We are prodigious users of oil. Much of that 
oil comes from areas of the world that are very troubled. There are 
some that don't like us very much. We send them over $1 billion, in 
some cases $1.5 billion a day, every single day to buy their oil. My 
colleagues know and I know that in some parts of the world enough money 
spills from that oil barrel to help fund terrorism. We know it. If we 
are that vulnerable, if our economy is in that much need of oil from 
others, particularly troubled parts of the world, if tomorrow that 
supply were interrupted or shut off and if that meant that this 
country's economy would be belly up just like that, do we then decide 
to do nothing about it or do we do something about it to address it in 
the context of national security?

We have armies. We commit armies to trouble spots around the world to 
protect our interests. Those armies can only operate if they have food 
and fuel. They need both. Energy security is the same as national 
security, and we have ignored for so long this issue of vulnerability 
that exists with respect to our energy future.

I wish to talk about what we need to do, and I wish to talk about my 
disappointment that we come now to November, almost December, 3 weeks 
left perhaps in December, and last June a year ago we passed an energy 
bill out of the Energy Committee that was bipartisan. It did a lot to 
address our energy security. Yet we will likely end this year with 
unfinished business, leaving behind that progress.

I wish to talk a little about the unbelievable progress in this 
country. In 1830, it took 3 weeks to travel from Chicago to New York--3 
weeks from Chicago to New York City. Twenty-five years later, you could 
do it in 3 days: the transcontinental railroad. The transcontinental 
railroad changed everything. Then the automobile, the automobile came 
along, first with an electric engine and then the internal combustion 
engine and then it needed a substantial amount of oil. Then our 
government said: We understand that, so anybody who is going to look 
for oil or gas, we want to give you a big, permanent tax benefit. It 
was in the public interest to do that. So for a century we have said to 
people: Go find oil and gas because we need it. We have incentivized 
that drilling here in this country.

If we think of what has happened over this period I have described in 
travel and technology, including the automobile, the light bulb--I 
mean, think of the impact both those innovations have had in our lives; 
pretty unbelievable.

One day on a Saturday I was in Grand Forks, ND, and I met with our 
oldest resident, Mary Schumacher, 111 years old. She was spry--I 
shouldn't say ''spry'' because she wasn't moving very well, but she had 
a very keen mind and we were able to have a very good visit--111 years 
old. She talked to me about her memories of when she was 6 and watched 
the barn burn. She has a great memory. We talked about how things have 
changed in 100 years of her lifetime. By the way, I stopped at that 
nursing home to see Mary because I wasn't able to be there some months 
before when I was invited to go to her birthday party, and I was 
invited by her niece who showed up when I showed up that Saturday to 
visit Mary. Her niece put on the birthday party and her niece was 103 
years old, in even better shape than Mary, moving around and fussing 
and making sure this visit with Mary was going well.


So we talked about the big changes in her life. I thought after I 
left there: Here is a person who has now lived over a century and she 
has seen everything. So let me think about her life.

In 1909--and she would have been nearly 10 years old then--in 1909, 
President Howard Taft, 5 foot 11 inches tall and 300 pounds, decided to 
get rid of the horse and buggy at the White House as the mode of 
transportation. He was the first President to decide he was going to 
buy an automobile. He bought a Baker electric car. President Taft might 
not have fit into a Mini Cooper had there been one back then, but he 
bought a Baker electric car, which goes to show batteries have a lot of 
power. There has been a lot of discussion about that these days. But 
isn't it interesting that an electric car for the White House in 1909--
that is 100 years ago--that electric car, now a century later, 100 
years later, is the subject of legislation I have on the floor of the 
Senate, along with Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Senator 
Merkley of Oregon; the Electric Vehicle Deployment Act, 100 years 
later. It is the new new thing. It is what we knew 100 years ago 
worked.

I wish to talk a little about these things and all the changes we 
have seen and why this issue is critical and why I feel so disappointed 
if we don't, in the final 3 weeks, at least take a


portion of that which we know needs to be done and do it because there 
is bipartisan agreement on a couple of these issues.

Let me mention them quickly. One, a renewable electricity standard so 
we try to induce more renewable energy production in this country. That 
is bipartisan. We have cosponsors in the Senate, including Senator 
Brownback, who is a very strong supporter of that, a renewable electric 
standard. The Electric Vehicle Deployment Act, which I have described, 
Senator Alexander and I and others, bipartisan; and the natural gas 
provision that Senator Reid and Senator Menendez have sponsored, that 
is also bipartisan. Those are things we can do and should do at the end 
of the year that is bipartisan that will advance our interests.

Why is it that energy is important? Well, one, the vulnerability to 
our economy if we were to see the supply of energy that is necessary 
shut off to this country at any point. So it is national security. No. 
1, national security. No. 2, it is the issue of the domestic energy use 
and the conversion as a part of this national and energy security to 
conservation, No. 1, and the production of different kinds of energy, 
No. 2, and then, finally, the issue of environmental benefits of some 
of the changes that are necessary. We are coming to an intersection for 
the first time when we debate energy in which energy production and 
national security resulting from that comes to the same intersection as 
the issue of climate change. So everything is going to change. The 
question isn't whether, it is how. So I wish to talk just a bit about 
some of the things we can do, it seems to me, to address these matters.

Let me talk about electricity. We produce a lot of electricity from 
different sources, including coal and natural gas, and so on. Coal is 
our most abundant resource. Fifty percent of the electricity in this 
country comes from coal, but we have to use it differently because when 
we burn coal, we throw carbon into the air and we understand we can't 
continue to do that. So we need to find innovative ways to extract the 
carbon from coal to continue to use that resource. We can and we will, 
in my judgment. I chair the appropriations subcommittee that funds 
carbon capture technology. There are all kinds of people around this 
country doing innovative, wonderful, breathtaking things to find a way 
to decarbonize coal. It is going to happen, if we decide to make the 
investment in order to allow it to happen.

So electricity that comes from coal or natural gas and electric 
plants, one of the problems we have dealing with the electricity is the 
delivery from where it is produced to where it is needed. Back in the 
early days of moving electricity around, we would build a plant to 
produce the electricity and then a spiderweb network of transmission 
wires in a circle largely around the planet and that became the service 
area and they were not connected one to another. That is the way it 
was. Then, finally, we decided we needed to move electricity from one 
area to another, so we connected the grids, barely, but we never did go 
back and build a modern transmission system. The result is we have a 
system now that is not very reliable and can't effectively move power 
from where it is produced to where it is needed, particularly in the 
area of renewable power, where the wind blows and the Sun shines. Where 
you can produce wind energy and solar energy, we can't at this point 
have full effective capability to where you can move it to where you 
can produce it and where you need it.

So we need to build an interstate transmission system. We can't do 
that now. We need legislation to do that. We can't do it now as 
demonstrated by the fact that in the last 9 years, we have built 11,000 
miles of natural gas pipeline to move natural gas around this country, 
and we have been able to build only 668 miles of interstate high-
voltage transmission lines. Why? Because we have all kinds of 
jurisdictions that can say no and will say no, so you can't build 
transmission. So the legislation we passed out of the Energy Committee 
a year and a half ago now solved that problem, put us on the path to be 
able to build an interstate transmission system, a modern, rich system. 
We shouldn't lose that. We should proceed to get that opportunity in 
that legislation.

Let me talk a bit about oil and gas. We are actually producing more 
oil, for the first time--it has been a long while since we have been on 
the decline in production. Part of it is from my State. The Bakken 
formation is the largest formation of oil ever assessed in the history 
of the lower 48 States. There are up to 4.3 billion barrels of 
recoverable oil, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. With that, 
plus the role shale plays in much of the country, we are beginning to 
produce a bit more oil and gas at this point. That will stop quickly if 
we can't continue what is called hydraulic fracturing. We have to deal 
with that big problem. Most of us in this Senate, who come from areas 
where we produce fossil energy, believe this has been done for 50 years 
without a problem, and now it is under some siege. If we can't do 
hydraulic fracturing, that promise of natural gas supplies and new oil 
will evaporate. We need to continue--and we will--with the production 
of oil and natural gas in this country.

I also am a supporter of the production of ethanol and the biofuels. 
I think it makes sense to extend our energy supply, if we can do it 
every single year, using biomass, corn-based ethanol. That makes a lot 
of sense to me. The other issue I mentioned is coal. We are going to 
have to find a way to use coal by extracting the carbon. I believe we 
can do that. We need to make a much greater effort. We have tried to do 
that in legislation in the last year or two.

Then we have nuclear energy. We will build some nuclear plants. We 
are going to do that. I believe we ought to do everything, and do it 
well, including wind, solar, geothermal. All of the renewables have 
great promise. I understand that in this country, for a long while, it 
was that real men dig and drill, and if you are somebody who supports 
wind or solar energy, go smoke your pipe, read a few books, and have a 
leather patch on your jacket. Real men dig and drill, and the rest of 
you are a bunch of nuisances. That was the thought that existed for a 
long time. It is not true anymore. We are going to dig and drill and do 
it differently and protect this country's environment. We are also 
going to incentivize and see the production of substantial amounts of 
additional energy from the wind and the Sun. It makes sense to do that, 
in order to expand our energy supply, protect our environment, produce 
additional jobs. All of these issues I have talked about are very job 
creating.

Yet, in many ways, the legislation we have worked on languishes 
because we are told we don't have time. This is urgent. It is about the 
vulnerability of our economy, about our national security, and it is 
about jobs. We ought to get about the business of deciding this is a 
priority.

If I can describe, in summary, here is how we address energy issues: 
Produce more, yes, in every area. Produce more wind and solar energy, 
incentivize it. Produce more oil--and we are doing that--and natural 
gas. Expand ethanol capabilities and geothermal. We can do all of these 
things. We are building nuclear plants now. We will see some new ones 
come online. As a country, we ought to do what the French are doing 
with respect to reprocessing and recycling and reduce that 100-percent 
body of waste down to 5 percent. That is what they have been doing for 
some while. We ought to do that--the renewables are so important--and 
then move toward the electric vehicle deployment, so we can take 
advantage of all of this. I mentioned to you that we produce about 85 
million barrels a day of oil--about 21 million barrels here in the 
United States, about one-fourth of the oil, and 77 percent of the oil 
we use in this country is used in vehicles.

If you are going to reduce the use of oil and reduce our 
vulnerability from too many exports of oil, then you have to do 
something about transportation. That is why this electric vehicle issue 
is so very important. It is the same with respect to natural gas 
vehicles and long-haul trucking across a network in this country. 
Electric vehicles are important. I have always been a fan, as well, of 
hydrogen and fuel cells. I think it is probably just beyond electric 
vehicles. Also, a fuel cell vehicle runs on electricity. It is 
interesting to get in and drive a hydrogen fuel cell vehicle and find 
that you can put your nose right down at the exhaust pipe, because it 
is just water vapor. It doesn't have a sound. It puts water


vapor out the back and has twice the power at the wheel. I think that 
is what our grandchildren and great-grandchildren are going to drive. 
All of these issues are so important to this country's future.

Again, I end as I started, by saying how profoundly disappointing it 
is that at the end of the session we understand how important this 
issue is and how little has been able to be done. There is still time. 
We could pass legislation called the Electric Vehicle Deployment Act. 
We could do that. We could pass legislation calling for a renewable 
energy standard, renewable electricity standard. This isn't rocket 
science. These are not complex issues that people can't understand. 
They understand them. Both political parties have strong supporters for 
these things. As we turn to December, it seems to me that as we 
contemplate probably 3 weeks in December on the floor of the Senate, we 
ought to at least consider what portion of an energy system and energy 
future can we embrace that came out of the Energy Committee in the 
Senate. The Electric Vehicle Deployment Act is the legislation that 
came out most recently and passed 19 to 3 by the Energy Committee--
strongly bipartisan. Why wouldn't we take that up? Why would we not 
complete work on that and advance this country's future?

The other day I talked about the two dune-buggy-size vehicles on the 
surface of Mars. I did it because I was talking to some people in North 
Dakota, who said nothing is going right, everything is going to hell in 
a hand basket, and nothing the government touches works for sure. They 
were down. I told them the story about the two dune-buggy-size vehicles 
we are driving on the surface of Mars. Five years ago, 1 week apart, we 
ignited rockets, and they lifted off on the west coast of the United 
States, and they were on their journey to Mars--1 week apart. The first 
rocket transported its payload to the surface of Mars, which landed on 
Mars with a thump and a bounce. It was in a shroud. When it stopped 
bouncing and stayed still, the shroud opened, and out of the shroud 
drove a dune-buggy-size vehicle on the surface of Mars. One week later, 
the second payload was deposited on the surface of Mars. The shroud 
bounced, opened, and the second vehicle drove off to the surface of 
Mars. That was 5 years ago. One's name is Spirit and one is 
Opportunity--two little vehicles, Spirit and Opportunity. They were 
supposed to last 90 days on the surface of Mars, giving us information 
about what we could learn about this strange planet.

Five years later, Spirit and Opportunity are still moving. It takes 
us 9 minutes to communicate with Spirit or Opportunity, to send them a 
message. At one point, Spirit fell dead asleep, and we communicated 
with a satellite orbiting Mars and had the satellite communicate with 
Spirit, and Spirit woke up. Spirit, they say, has an arm that was used 
to sample the soil of Mars. That arm has become just like old men 
become, rheumatoid and arthritic, and now hangs at a strange angle 
because of that machine arthritis it has, apparently. Also a wheel 
broke, among the five wheels, but it didn't fall off; it is hanging. As 
Spirit traverses the surface of Mars, it drags one wheel that digs a 
slightly deeper 2-inch hole in the surface of Mars, and the arthritic 
arm reaches back and tells us what is happening on Mars.

How is all of this happening? First of all, it is unbelievable 
engineering, right? Can you imagine the people who put this together, 
to send dune buggies we could drive on the surface of Mars, and then 
they last 5 years when they were supposed to last 90 days? How are they 
powered? Do they have a Briggs and Stratton engine and somebody pulls 
it and gets them started? No. They are powered by the Sun. They have 
solar cells that allow us to have the power to drive dune buggies on 
the surface of Mars. Is it beyond our reach to believe that if we can 
power dune buggies with solar cells on Mars, we can fix a few of these 
things here on planet Earth? Of course that is not beyond our reach. Of 
course we can do that. In fact, the very names of these dune buggies--
Spirit and Opportunity--ought to be the names on these desks in this 
Chamber: Spirit and Opportunity.


I started by saying there is no preordained destiny for this country 
to do well. It always has done well. When I grew up, I knew we were the 
biggest, the strongest, the best, and had the most. We could beat 
anybody with one hand tied behind our back. That will not always be the 
case. We will not remain a world economic power, unless we make smart 
decisions. Our parents and grandparents did. Every parent in this 
country has sacrificed for their kids. I don't know what is in second, 
third, or fourth place to most people, but first place is their kids. 
The question is whether it is on fiscal policy or energy policy. The 
question is, what are we willing to do for our kids? What kind of 
future do we want to leave our kids? Do we want to leave them deep in 
debt or vulnerable on energy production, which may leave us in the dark 
one day? I don't think so. This country can do much better than that.

Neither party has been much of a political bargain recently. Both 
parties need to do better. I have strong feelings about which has 
better ideas at the moment, and I will not be partisan on the floor, 
except to say that this country deserves more. It is not just coming 
out here talking about how can we cut taxes for everybody; it is how do 
we tighten our belts and ask those who are supposed to pay taxes to pay 
them, getting deficits under control, and getting people back on 
payrolls, and incentivizing businesses to create jobs.

How do we address energy issues? It is time for this country to be 
serious--this Congress--about doing things that are necessary, which 
may require sacrifice from all of us. If young men and women are 
willing to leave their homes to go to Afghanistan today for a year 
because their country asks them to, we can do no less than make 
sacrifices that are thoughtful on behalf of our future, so they won't 
come home and find a bigger deficit and more unemployment, but instead 
that we made the tough decisions to fix these things. We are going to 
fix this because it is important for the country's future.

As I said when I started, this issue of energy is so very important 
and is unfinished business. In my judgment, we ought not to include at 
the end of this year an energy bill, or components of one, that I think 
could be very important to this country's future, to jobs, and to our 
national security.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.