# HONORING ISRAELI INDEPENDENCE DAY
## `6bc7f74bb921975718e636a0b62ec39f`
`Mr. ROTHMAN of New Jersey — 22 April 2010`

---


Mr. ROTHMAN of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
62nd Anniversary of the Jewish State of Israel. On April 19, 2010, 
Israel celebrated Yom Ha'atzmaut, the national Independence Day of 
Israel, which commemorates its founding in 1948. In that spirit, the 
following is an op-ed I wrote regarding the benefits of U.S. aid to 
Israel.

Rothman: The Dividends of U.S. Support For Israel--April 13, 2010--The 
















Record.




 The argument that American military aid to Israel is 


 damaging to the United States is not only erroneous, it hurts 


 the national security interests of this country and threatens 


 the survival of Israel.



 U.S. support for Israel is essential, not only for Israel's 


 national security, but for America's. Every bit of that 


 support--and more--withstands all reasonable scrutiny.



 Under the 2010 U.S. budget, about $75 billion, $65 billion 


 and $3.25 billion will be spent on military operations and 


 aid in Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan during this fiscal 


 year, respectively. Israel will receive $3 billion, in 


 military aid only. There is no economic aid to Israel, other 


 than loan guarantees that continue to be repaid in full and 


 on time.



 There isn't enough space here to discuss the relative 


 merits of the expenditures in these other countries, but we 


 already know the critically important return we get for 


 helping our oldest, most trusted ally in the strategically 


 important Middle East--the most powerful military force in 


 that region, the pro-United States, pro-West and democratic 


 Jewish state of Israel.



 Here's how:



 First, it's important to remember that about 70 percent of 


 the $3 billion aid must be used by Israel to purchase 


 American military equipment. This provides real support for 


 U.S. high-tech defense jobs and contributes to maintaining 


 our industrial base. This helps the United States stay at the 


 very top in the manufacturing of our own cutting-edge 


 military munitions, aircraft, vehicles, missiles and 


 virtually every defensive and offensive weapon in the U.S. 


 arsenal--with the added contribution of Israel's renowned 


 technical know-how.



 Second, the United States and Israel are jointly developing 


 state-of-the-art missile defense capabilities in the David's 


 Sling and Arrow 3 systems. These two technologies build on 


 the already successful Arrow 2, jointly developed by our two 


 countries, which is already providing missile defense 


 security to Israel and U.S. civilians and ground troops 


 throughout the region.















A multiplier effect




 The knowledge we gain from these efforts also has a 


 positive multiplier effect on applications to other US. 


 military and non-military uses and jobs here.



 Third, given Israel's strategic location on the 


 Mediterranean, with access to the Red Sea and other vital 


 international shipping and military lanes of commerce and 


 traffic, it is critically important to the United States that 


 Israel continue to serve as a port of call for our troops, 


 ships, aircraft and intelligence operations.



 Israel also has permitted the United States to stockpile 


 arms, fuel, munitions and other supplies on its soil to be 


 accessed whenever America needs them in the region.



 Fourth, America's special relationship with Israel provides 


 us with real-time, minute-to-minute access to one of the 


 best, intelligence services in the world: Israel's. With 


 Israeli agents gathering intelligence and taking action 


 throughout the Middle East and, literally, around the world, 


 regarding al-Qaida, Hezbollah, Iran and Hamas, the US. 


 receives invaluable information about anti-U.S. and terrorist 


 organizations and regimes.



 Fifth, imagine the additional terrible cost in U.S. blood, 


 and the hundreds of billions more of American taxpayer 


 dollars, if Saddam Hussein had developed nuclear weapons, or 


 if Syria possessed them.



 Then remember that it was Israel that destroyed the almost-


 completed nuclear reactor at Osirak, Iraq, in 1981 and 


 Syria's nuclear facility under construction at Deir-ez-Zor in 


 2007.



 And think about the many operations that Israel's Defense 


 Forces and intelligence agents have undertaken to foil, slow 


 and disrupt Iran's efforts to develop a nuclear weapons 


 capability. A nuclear-armed Iran would threaten the lives of 


 hundreds of thousands of Americans in the region, all of 


 Iran's Arab neighbors, the world's largest oil supplies and 


 those who rely on that oil.











Access to lethal Iranian technology




 It also would provide anti-U.S. terrorists with access to 


 the most lethal Iranian technology and probably set off a 


 nuclear arms race in the region.



 For about 2 percent of what the United States spends in 


 Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan this year, Americans can take 


 pride in the return on our investment in aid to Israel.



 And with Israel's truly invaluable assistance to America's 


 vital national security, we can take comfort that--in actions 


 seen in Tehran and Damascus and noticed by al-Qaida and other 


 anti-U.S. terrorists everywhere--the United States is safer 


 and made more secure because of the mutually dependent and 


 beneficial relationship between us and Israel.
