# None
## `6bc879398c22578de6599a5863797ab5`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 15 December 2010`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 
International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act.

Child marriage is an international epidemic, with 100 million girls 
projected to marry in the next decade.

Not only do these young girls lose the opportunity to achieve their 
full potential, but they also are at risk for serious health 
consequences. Childbirth is five times more deadly for girls under 15 
than for women in their twenties, and pregnancy is the most common 
cause of death for girls between the age of 15 and 19.

HIV/AIDS is another serious risk for child brides, as they frequently 
marry more sexually experienced men. In many countries in sub-Saharan 
Africa, girls under the age of 19 are more than twice as likely to 
contract HIV as boys of the same age.

Young girls frequently experience trauma and violence in these 
marriages.

A front page article in The New York Times on November 7, 2010 told 
the story of Farzana, a young girl living in Afghanistan.

Although she dreamed of being a teacher, Farzana was engaged at age 8 
and married four years later. Her husband beat her for the first time 
on her wedding day, and the beatings continued for four years. She was 
forbidden to see her mother.

Farzana tells us, ''I thought of running away from that house, but 
then I thought: what will happen to the name of my family? No one in 
our family has asked for divorce. So how can I be the first?''

Left with few choices, Farzana set herself on fire. After burning 
half her body, she lived--but only after 57 days in the hospital and 
multiple surgeries.

Farzana's dream of becoming a teacher was killed by a premature 
marriage.

She--and millions of others like her--deserve better.

The bill that we are considering today will help realize the dreams 
of many young girls like Farzana by expanding assistance to prevent 
child marriage and empower girls around the world.

Young girls everywhere deserve the opportunity to make their own 
decisions and determine their own destiny.