---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6bdd667d6faf6582d86188903eeea3b7`
`Mr. WEBB — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I would like to join two of my three 
principal cosponsors on S. 22 in speaking about how important this 
piece of legislation


is, and how appropriate it is to have it be placed on the supplemental 
appropriations measure. The senior Senator from Virginia has an 
amendment we are going to offer. Hopefully, in the spirit of what the 
Senator from Mississippi just said, we will try to lay some of these 
arguments by the wayside and get a bill that will truly provide the 
right kind of readjustment benefits to those who have been performing 
such exemplary service since 9/11.

S. 22 was introduced on the first day of this Congress. From that 
point we have had strong bipartisan and bicameral support. We now have 
58 cosponsors in the Senate, including 11 Republicans. Among those 
Republicans is the senior Senator from Virginia, the former chairman of 
the Armed Services Committee, and the senior Senator from Nebraska, the 
only Member of this body to have served in a high-ranking position in 
the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Just last week in the House, in spite of some of the debates that 
went into pay-for provisions and tax provisions, we saw a strong vote. 
We had 300 sponsors of this provision in the House, including more than 
90 Republicans. Even on what was largely viewed as a partisan vote in 
other areas, we had 33 Republicans vote for this bill.

This bill is supported by the current chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee; as I mentioned, Senator Warner, the former chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee and the former Secretary of the Navy; the 
serving chairman of the Veterans' Committee, Senator Akaka, who was 
just in the chair; the former chairman of the Veterans' Committee, 
Senator Specter. It has the strong support of all of our leading 
veterans organizations, including the American Legion, the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, the Iraq-Afghanistan Veterans. The Disabled American 
Veterans have taken a firm position, as have many more.

We have, I would say, at least 15 of the top veterans organizations 
having participated in the modification of this bill and strongly 
supporting it. Many major higher educational institutions and 
associations have endorsed this bill, including the American Council on 
Education, the National Association of Independent Colleges and 
Universities, and the National Association of State and Land Grant 
Colleges.

This bill is carefully crafted. It has been substantially improved by 
the participation of all of the groups that I just mentioned plus many 
of our Members. It is appropriate on this legislation as a cost of war.

There are people who discuss this in terms of cost. This is a bill 
that closely resembles the benefits that we gave to our returning 
veterans in World War II--a series of educational benefits which 
leveled the playing field in America and allowed those who served a 
first-class opportunity to move into the future. We owe these young 
men and women who have been serving since 9/11 no less. We owe them no 
less. This is emphatically a cost of war.


When we can spend $600 billion and, by some estimates, $3 trillion in 
a life cycle as a result of this war, the least we can do is spend the 
money in this bill to allow these people the best opportunity they have 
to succeed in their lives.

There has been some resistance from some of the Members of this 
body--some of the Republican Members of this body--and also from the 
administration to this bill. Some have said it is too generous. I just 
discussed that. We worked very hard to make it fair and relevant to the 
priorities we should be having. Some have said it would be difficult to 
administer. We have worked with the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
with the Department of Defense on areas where they had concerns, and we 
addressed those concerns. It is interesting to point out, for those who 
talk about the potential difficulty of administering a bill such as 
this, that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs was able to 
administer a very similar bill after World War II in a day where we 
didn't have computers, and they were able to do it for 8 million 
people. We are not talking anywhere near that number, so I believe we 
have addressed all of those concerns.

The last issue that has been discussed, and it has come up again and 
again, is the concern that provisions such as are contained in this 
bill would affect retention in the Active-Duty military. As someone who 
has spent 5 years in the Pentagon, 1 as a marine and 4 as a defense 
executive working on manpower issues--and I am sure Senator Warner who 
spent more time in the Pentagon than I have would share this 
commentary--I believe the provisions of this bill actually will 
dramatically increase recruitment and that the manpower model would 
benefit from it.

With respect to retention itself, the discussion has been made that a 
bill like this should have, as a part of it, a concept called 
transferability, which would allow Active-Duty military people to 
transfer this educational benefit to family members.

I want to make a clarification as to where the main target of this 
bill is, then I want to speak very briefly about transferability, and 
then I would like to recognize my colleague from Nebraska.

I believe there is a misperception in this country that because we 
have an all-volunteer system, we actually have an all-career military. 
We do not. A lot of people come to the military in the United States 
because they love their country, because they have a family tradition, 
because they want to soldier for a while and then move on to other 
things. Frankly, these are the people who have not been properly taken 
care of in the years since 9/11, and they are the principal target of 
our legislation.

The U.S. military has done a very good job taking care of its career 
force. When you hear arguments about entitlement to transferability, 
again, they are talking about managing the career force. But these are 
the actual numbers that have been given to us by the manpower chiefs in 
the Department of Defense.

In the U.S. Army, by the time a cohort group has finished its first 
enlistment, 75.5 percent of them have left or will leave the U.S. Army 
at the end of a first enlistment. In the Marine Corps, 70 percent of 
the people who enlist will leave by the end of their first enlistment, 
either through attrition or deciding not to reenlist. For approximately 
50 percent of the Air Force and the Navy it is the same.

If you look at the Active-Duty military on the enlisted side, an 
overwhelming majority of them leave the military by the end of their 
first enlistment. These are the people who have had readjustment 
difficulties that we have talked about. These are the people who 
deserve to have a first-class education in order to move them into the 
future.

This group over here, about a quarter of the Army, about 30 percent 
of the Marine Corps, and about half of the Air Force and the Navy, are 
the people who reenlist at least for one term. This is the group that 
has received so much of the argument of this administration on issues 
of retention. We need to take care of this group. We are prepared today 
to discuss a way to address this transferability issue with this 
smaller but very important group.

I point out with the issue of transferability that Senator Warner had 
introduced a provision that was enacted into law about 6 years ago that 
allowed the Service Secretaries to provide transferability to military 
people at the discretion of the Service Secretaries as a retention 
device. This has been in the law for 6 years with respect to the 
Montgomery GI bill, the bill we are going to replace. It has almost 
never been used.

On the one hand, we hear all this talk from the Department of Defense 
about how important this is and how they hear about it every day when 
they go out to their meetings and their townhall meetings, but the 
Service Secretaries have almost never used this benefit that has 
already been on the books. So I am concerned about how widely this 
benefit would actually be used.

At the same time, I believe it is important, and our principal 
sponsors believe it is important, that we continue the existing law 
with some modification to give the U.S. Department of Defense the 
opportunity to test it again, to put it in this bill, continue it as 
law with some tweaks on it. As the Senator from Mississippi had said 
earlier, I hope with this gesture that we can get full support for this 
legislation and get it into law. The clock ticks for young people after 
they leave the military in terms of how they are going to readjust to 
the rest of their lives. The clock has


been ticking for a lot of people since 9/11, and it is our duty to do 
something about it this year.

With that, Mr. President, I yield to my colleague from Nebraska, my 
longtime friend, Vietnam combat veteran, and former official in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.