---
---

# JULIA M. CARSON POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `6be17fb0594eb6a53e6b53b3dd6a7ceb`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life 
and legacy of a dear friend and respected colleague of mine, 
Representative Julia Carson, and strongly support the underlying bill, 
H.R. 5472, ''To designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 2650 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street, 
Indianapolis, IN, as the ''Julia M. Carson Post Office Building.''

Born in poverty and racial segregation to a teenage single mother in 
1938, Julia Porter Carson worked her way up through politics to become 
one of the most influential people in central Indiana. Julia Carson had 
a long career as a public servant.

In 1965, while working as a secretary at UAW Local 550, she was hired 
away by newly elected congressman Andy Jacobs to do casework in his 
Indianapolis office. When his own electoral prospects looked dim in 
1972, he encouraged Carson to run for the Indiana State House of 
Representatives, which she did; she was elected in 1972, serving as a 
member for 4 years. In 1976, she successfully ran for the Indiana State 
Senate.

In 1990, she was elected as a trustee for Center Township that covers 
downtown Indianapolis, and was responsible for running welfare programs 
in central Indianapolis. Carson served 6 years as a trustee, creating a 
$6-million surplus from the office's $20-million debt. Carson employed 
an aggressive workfare program and anti-fraud procedures to quickly 
erase the enormous debt, while still providing much needed emergency 
services to the poor of Indianapolis. Her budget-balancing feat earned 
compliments from both sides of the political spectrum, including that 
of republican county auditor John Von Arx, who said, ''Julia Carson 
wrestled that monster to the ground.''

In 1996, Julia Carson made history by becoming the first African-
American woman Indiana has ever sent to Congress. Despite all her 
accomplishments and success, she never forgot her roots; she always 
remained true to herself and her beliefs. With all her success and 
accomplishments, she could have moved to a better neighborhood but 
chose not to. To the day she died, Julia Carson's home telephone number 
was in the Indianapolis phone book.

In all my years in Congress, I am not sure I can remember anyone as 
dedicated to their constituents as Julia was. She reached out to senior 
citizens, mothers of men and women serving in Iraq, crime victims and 
those struggling to pay the rent. She sent cards and routinely showed 
up at funerals and hospitals and front doors. She worked to find work 
for young men who were coming out of prison. She helped crime victims 
who were seeking justice.

While I didn't always agree with Julia politically, I always enjoyed 
working with her and her welcoming smile. She was a great woman and a 
dedicated public servant. While I was lucky to serve with her in this 
body, I was luckier to call her my friend. It is right that we honor 
her in the community that she served by naming this post office in her 
memory.