# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6be91ac0dae5f5411f5d72a7f41c50f5`
`Mr. KYL — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I want to talk about the pending amendment to 
the bill. This amendment is called the Graham-Gregg-Kyl-Sessions, et 
al., amendment. I wanted to make a couple of quick comments about it.

Because the immigration bill failed on the floor of the Senate, a 
variety of States have begun to pass their own laws to enforce certain 
elements of immigration policy, including determining employment 
eligibility. My State of Arizona is one of those States.

What I noticed that at least a couple of them have done, including 
Arizona, is to require that employers check with the Department of 
Homeland Security, and the basic pilot program we have established as a 
pilot program, to determine the validity of the Social Security status 
of the prospective employee. It may well be that as States fill the gap 
created because the Federal Government has not adopted immigration 
reform legislation, especially dealing with that subject, that the 
Department of Homeland Security and Social Security will be 
increasingly called upon to provide information to the States. Because 
of that, they are probably going to need to be able to improve their 
systems; not to change what they do or create a Federal program but at 
least to be able to respond to those State inquiries.

My understanding from the Department of Homeland Security is that 
they have the capacity to deal with additional inquiries now, but they 
wish to improve their capabilities and make sure the accuracy level is 
high of the information passed back to the States and to the employers 
requesting information, and perhaps even to expand what it is they can 
provide by way of verification of the validity of the Social Security 
numbers. So as this process unfolds, we are going to have to make sure 
all of our Government agencies--primarily the Department of


Homeland Security--have what they need to respond to these requests.

To that end, one of the elements of the amendment that has been 
offered here authorizes the expenditure of funds for the specific 
purpose of improving the reliability of the basic pilot program and 
associated programs of the Federal Government that would respond to 
State inquiries. Obviously, my preference is that the Federal 
Government undertake that ourselves. Our responsibility is to form the 
immigration laws and secure the border. Having failed to pass 
legislation, they can help our citizens around the country by having 
the most robust database possible that is easy to access and, 
therefore, States and employers throughout the States can take 
advantage of.

The only other thing is that I support this amendment because it 
includes many of the features that were part of the immigration bill 
that almost everybody agreed with. What you heard in the debate was 
that we all agree we need to secure the border, enforce the laws, 
return to the rule of law, but--there was always a ''but'' and 
different people had different reasons they didn't want to support the 
bill. But the bottom line was that almost everybody here supported the 
essential enforcement features.

The Department of Homeland Security appropriation bill, therefore, is 
the appropriate place to include funding for the execution of the laws 
that currently exist and, almost without exception, this amendment does 
not add new authority or programs for enforcement but rather identifies 
areas in which enforcing existing law would be enhanced through greater 
capability achieved through the expenditure of funds that could, among 
other things, hire more personnel or in other ways make the system more 
robust.

Here is one specific example: Most folks like to refer to securing 
the border, and the symbol of that is the hiring of more Border Patrol. 
That is fine; we need them. But we also know that 40 percent of illegal 
immigrants in the United States didn't cross the border illegally. They 
came here on visas and then overstayed their visas illegally. The 
question is, what can we do to enforce our visa policy, as well as what 
can we do to secure the border?

This bill focuses on that visa overstayer problem and provides 
funding for the kind of particular investigators and agents for 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement that would ordinarily be looking at 
that problem. In addition, it explores ways in which the entry-exit 
system can be implemented and we can understand who has overstayed 
their visas so that can be enforced.

There is much else in this amendment that is good policy and that 
backs up that policy by the expenditure of funds. The $3 billion figure 
in here is, very roughly, an approximation of what the immigration bill 
that we debated provided for, minus the implementation of a couple of 
programs, the biggest one of which was the employee verification 
system. That system obviously failed along with the rest of the 
immigration bill. That was a pretty expensive item.

You will recall that we had mandatory spending of $4.4 billion--money 
that would have been collected from fines and fees. The $3 billion here 
represents the bulk of what that money would have been spent on, minus 
the employee verification system and a few other odds and ends.

That is the explanation for the particular amount of funding in the 
bill. I hope our colleagues will think carefully about this amendment. 
Its purpose is good. I think its execution is good. It is on the right 
bill. What it does that is a bit troublesome to some Members is provide 
some authorization, though that is not the primary element; it would 
not be the first time we provided authorization on an appropriations 
bill, but I can see there is some of that in here. The other aspect is 
the emergency funding nature. One way or another, we are going to have 
to get the funding to do the things the American people have insisted 
on. I have no objection to doing this as emergency funding. If we can 
fund $100 billion for the Iraq war, for example, I think we can fund $3 
billion to secure our own border. If the loss of the immigration bill a 
month ago taught me anything, it was that the American people are very 
skeptical that we are committed to enforcing the law. I believe until 
we demonstrate to them a seriousness of purpose by actions rather than 
words, by the appropriation of money and by the expenditure of that 
money on things that they can see make a difference in enforcing 
immigration policy, they are not going to give us the green light to 
adopt a more comprehensive immigration reform bill. That is why I am 
supportive of this amendment as the next step toward solving the 
problem. I think we want to solve it. I think this is a step in that 
direction and I, therefore, urge my colleagues to support the 
legislation.