# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS MOTION TO PROCEED
## `6beae5eb9e49c37b555f769cf20e4a86`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, more than 3,860 men and women of the 
American military have died in the war in Iraq. At last count, 21 were 
killed in November alone, and we are only halfway through. In the 
Senate, we are worried about getting out of work in time for 
Thanksgiving. In Iraq, they are worried about making it to 
Thanksgiving. As I speak today, more than 28,450 American soldiers have 
come home from Iraq with their lives changed forever by wounds, with 
missing arms and legs, with traumatic brain injuries that will forever 
alter how they cope with everyday life, with more cases of post-
traumatic stress disorder than ever seen before, with life-altering 
blindness that cuts light from their lives forever.

As I speak, American taxpayers are footing a $455 billion bill for 
this war, with long-term estimates soaring well beyond $2 trillion. At 
the same time, children are going without health care. Students are 
being denied proper education. Our bridges are going without repair. 
Our borders are going without being completely secured, and we heard 
today of a case in which we still can't get our screening down pat to 
secure the possibility of someone bringing an explosive device into our 
airports. That is the legacy of the war in Iraq.

In the context of this set of grim statistics, while watching images 
on television of horrific explosions and bloody bodies, Americans were 
asked at the beginning of the year to accept a so-called surge of our 
troops into that country, an additional force that was supposed to 
provide the breathing room for the feuding political factions to 
achieve reconciliation. Those factions, of course, are Iraqi factions.

The Bush administration knew that peace could not be achieved solely 
militarily, that it had to be achieved politically. The administration 
unilaterally decided that more troops, more weapons, more military 
would make the political reconciliation happen. So we have to ask: What 
has been the result? Our men and women of the military have carried out 
their mission with unparalleled skill and bravery. They have sacrificed 
life and limb for their country. That is why we must ask these 
questions. Because they always respond, no questions asked. But it is 
our obligation to ask for them.


Through their excellent work, they have achieved results. But has it 
brought Iraq closer to a lasting peace? Has the political 
reconciliation--the very purpose of the additional troops--been 
achieved? Absolutely not. Absolutely not.

The front page of today's Washington Post paints a startling picture, 
a picture of the hard truth. Our generals--our generals on the ground--
tell us


that a political settlement remains elusive. In fact, their concern 
over this failure is growing. Let me quote from this morning's article 
in the Washington Post:




 Senior military commanders here now portray the 


 intransigence of Iraq's Shiite-dominated government as the 


 key threat--


''As the key threat''--



 facing the U.S. effort in Iraq, rather than al-Qaeda 


 terrorists, Sunni insurgents or Iranian-backed militias.


Let me read that again.




 Senior military commanders here--


U.S. military commanders--



 now portray the intransigence of Iraq's Shiite-dominated 


 government as the key threat facing the U.S. effort in Iraq, 


 rather than al-Qaeda terrorists, Sunni insurgents or Iranian-


 backed militias.


So here we are, 6 months into the surge, with more troops in Iraq 
right now--175,000--than ever before, and the main purpose of adding 
these troops remains just an aspiration, well out of our reach.

So I ask my colleagues who supported the surge of troops, is this the 
result you envisioned? A situation in which dozens of Americans are 
still dying every month despite a reduction in violence? A situation in 
which the sons and daughters of America are more than ever acting as 
the police force--as the police force--in a country that remains 
volatile and deadly? A situation in which the people we need most to 
achieve stability--the leaders of the various Iraqi political 
factions--look at a never-ending American military presence in their 
country and see little reason to reconcile?

Are we going to remain in the middle of an internal struggle for 
power, as General Petraeus reported in September? I was shocked when 
General Petraeus had as part of his testimony that the main conflict in 
Iraq was a struggle for power and resources within the different 
factions of Iraqi society. Are we sending our sons and daughters to 
create the space for the Iraqi politicians to fight over power and 
resources? That is what we sent our sons and daughters for? That is why 
we keep them there? Is that what we bargained for?

We cannot accept the status quo in Iraq. When our military commanders 
say that, in fact, the biggest challenge to us is the intransigence of 
Iraqi leaders to come together, more so than al-Qaida, more so than 
Sunni insurgents, more so than Iranian influences, that is one 
incredible statement.

Things must change, and to change it will take strong action. It 
requires a choice: Do we stay the course when we know that peace and 
political stability cannot be achieved looking down the barrel of a 
gun? Military presence does not achieve political reconciliation. 
Remember, former General Pace of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said once: 
Well, we need the Iraqis to love their children more than they hate 
their neighbors. That is a powerful truism, but that does not come at 
the point of a rifle. That comes about through reconciliation. It comes 
through power sharing. It comes through revenue sharing. It comes 
through all of those things that, notwithstanding the arguments that we 
are creating the space for the Iraqi leadership to do, the Iraqi 
leadership has failed to do, and there is no movement in sight toward 
that goal. Or do we choose a course that impresses upon the political 
leaders in Iraq that they must reconcile and bring peace to their 
country swiftly?

We need to make them understand the true urgency of this task. We 
need to make them understand America will not always be there to play 
policeman. Instead of continuing to enable an endless and unchanging 
involvement in Iraq, we can set a timetable to begin bringing American 
troops back home. I believe that only then will we have the Iraqis 
understand that we are not there in an endless occupation, that they 
are going to have to make the hard choices for compromise, negotiations 
necessary to achieve a government of national unity on those issues of 
reconciliation, power sharing, revenue sharing, on the core issues that 
possibly can create the opportunity for a strong federal government in 
Iraq to survive. But as long as they believe we will stay there in an 
open-ended set of circumstances--shedding our blood and spending our 
national treasure--what is the urgency, the impetus for them to stop 
jostling over power, influence, and resources? Not only could we 
preserve the lives of countless American troops, not only could we save 
billions upon billions of taxpayer dollars, we also could make certain 
that the Iraqis know they will have to stand up to achieve the peace we 
all seek, the opportunities we would love to see for the Iraqi people, 
because until the Iraqi Government and military actually believe we 
will not be there forever, they will not actually take charge of their 
own country.

Transitioning our troops out of Iraq, that is what I choose. It is 
what the American people have continuously said they have chosen. It is 
what I urge my colleagues to choose. We have that opportunity coming 
tomorrow on the vote on bridge funding. That creates an opportunity to 
begin such a transition. I hope we will avail ourselves of that 
opportunity because if we have to read more and more of our generals 
saying that the intransigence of Iraq's Shiite-dominated Government is 
the key threat facing the U.S. effort in Iraq rather than al-Qaida 
terrorists, Sunni insurgents, or Iranian-backed militias, we are in 
deep trouble--we are in deep trouble.

We have to have an opportunity to change the course, and pride--
pride--I hope is not the impediment for people recognizing that. We 
have lost too many lives already. We have spent an enormous amount of 
money. It is time for change. It is time for a change in course. It is 
time to make sure the Iraqis know they have to stand up for their own 
future, they have to make the hard decisions possible to have a 
government of national unity. That opportunity comes tomorrow for the 
Senate. I hope we will avail ourselves of it.

With that, Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.