---
---

# MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE
## `6bf21231031df2d8607cdfe2109fc277`
`Mr. WEBB — 12 September 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, we are in an odd situation in the business 
of Government at the moment in that the international authority for the 
United States to be operating in Iraq will expire at the end of this 
year. The U.N. mandate, through the U.N. Security Council, expires at 
that time.

Since last November, the administration has been negotiating what 
they call the Strategic Framework Agreement that is intended to replace 
the international authority of the U.N. mandate. There have been two 
questions that have come up with respect to what the administration is 
doing. The first is the timeline.

There are indications from Iraq that the Iraqi Government negotiators 
have serious questions that weren't anticipated before. But the larger 
question is, what entity of the Federal Government has the authority to 
enter the United States into a long-term relationship with another 
government?

These are serious issues. I submit the conditions under which we will 
continue to operate in Iraq militarily, diplomatically, economically, 
and even culturally are not the sole business of any administration. We 
have questions about the legal justification under domestic and 
international law for the United States to operate militarily--and 
quasi-militarily, by the way--given the hundreds of thousands of 
independent contractors that are now essentially performing military 
functions in that country. There are questions about the process by 
which the U.S. Government decides upon and enters into long-term 
relations with another nation--any nation. In that regard, we have 
serious questions here about the very workings of our constitutional 
system of Government.


This administration has claimed repeatedly, since last November, that 
it has the right to negotiate and enter into an agreement that will set 
the future course of our relations with Iraq without the agreement or 
even the ratification of the U.S. Congress. The administration claims 
that the justification for this authority is the 2002 congressional 
authorization for the use of force in Iraq and, as a fallback position, 
the President's inherent authority, from the perspective of this 
administration, as Commander in Chief.

Both of these justifications are patently wrong. The 2002 
congressional authorization to use force in Iraq has nothing to do with 
negotiation with a government, which replaced the Saddam Hussein 
government, as to the future relations culturally, economically, 
diplomatically, and militarily between our two countries. On the other 
hand, we are now faced with the reality that the U.N. mandate will 
expire at the end of this year, and that expiration will terminate the 
authority under international law for the United States to be operating 
in Iraq at a time when we have hundreds of thousands of Americans on 
the ground in that country.

I and other colleagues have been warning of this serious disconnect 
for


10 months. Many of us were trying to say last November that the 
intention of this administration was to proceed purely with an 
executive agreement to drag this out until the Congress was going to go 
out of session, as we are about to do, and then to present essentially 
a fait accompli in the sense that with the expiration of the 
international mandate from the United Nations at the end of the year, 
something would have to be done, and that something would be an 
executive agreement that, to this point, Congress has not even been 
allowed to examine.

We have not been able to see one word of this agreement. We tried to 
energize the Congress. We have met with all of the appropriate 
administration officials. There have been hearings. There have been 
assurances from the administration that they will consult at the 
appropriate time. We have not seen anything. So we are faced with this 
situation that is something of a constitutional coup d'etat by this 
administration. At risk is a further expansion of the powers of the 
Presidency, the result of which will be to affirm, in many minds, that 
the President--any President--no longer needs the approval of Congress 
to enter into long-term relations with another country, in effect, 
committing us to obligations that involve our national security, our 
economic well-being, our diplomatic posture around the world, without 
the direct involvement of the U.S. Congress.

That is not what the Constitution intended. It is not in the best 
interest of our country. This amendment, which I filed today, is 
designed to prevent this sort of imbalance from occurring and, at the 
same time, it recognizes the realities of the timelines that are now 
involved with respect to the loss of international authority for our 
presence in Iraq at the end of this year.

This amendment is a sense of the Congress. On the one hand, it is a 
sense of the Congress that we work with the United Nations to extend 
the U.N. mandate up to an additional year, giving us some additional 
international authority for being in Iraq, taking away the pressure of 
this timeline that could be used to justify an agreement that the 
Congress hasn't had the ability to examine, but also saying that an 
extension of the U.N. mandate would end at such time as a Strategic 
Framework Agreement and a Status of Forces Agreement between the United 
States and Iraq are mutually agreed upon.


The amendment also makes the point that the Strategic Framework 
Agreement now being negotiated between the United States and Iraq poses 
significant, long-term national security implications for this country. 
That would be the sense of the Congress. We need to be saying that; the 
Iraqis need to hear it.

The amendment also puts Congress and the administration on record to 
the reality that the Bush administration has fully agreed to consult 
with the Congress regarding all the details of the Strategic Framework 
Agreement and the Status of Forces Agreement and that there would be 
copies of the full text of these agreements provided to the chairman 
and ranking minority members of the appropriate committees in the House 
and the Senate prior to the entry into either of those agreements.

Importantly, it also says any Strategic Framework Agreement that has 
been mutually agreed upon by the negotiators from our executive branch 
and Iraqi Government officials will cease to have effect unless it is 
approved by the Congress within 180 days of the entry into force of 
that agreement.

On the one hand, this agreement recognizes the realities of where we 
are in terms of timelines, but on the other, it protects the 
constitutional processes by which we are entering into long-term 
relationships with other countries, whether it is Iraq or Cameroon or 
Burundi or pick a country. We need to preserve this process. It does it 
in a way which will not disrupt our operations in Iraq.

I urge my colleagues to join me on this amendment and protect the 
prerogatives of the Congress under the Constitution of the United 
States.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.