# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `6bf7685dcbdc53a74c5c4f412a933901`
`Mr. AKAKA — 17 November 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, this Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs Appropriations Act for 2010 rightfully prioritizes the health 
care of the Nation's wounded warriors by substantially increasing 
discretionary health care spending for fiscal year 2010. This bill 
includes a $45.1 billion appropriation for the Veterans Health 
Administration that will enable VA to treat an estimated 6.1 million 
patients in 2010, including $533 million to support the enrollment of 
266,000 nondisabled, modest-income veterans. This funding furthers the 
Administration's goal of enrolling more than 500,000 of these 
previously ineligible veterans by 2013. In addition to enrolling more 
veterans of modest means, this bill provides for $440 million to 
improve the health of rural veterans.

The 2010 Milcon-VA Appropriations Act includes a total of $34.7 
billion for medical services, $4.8 billion for construction, and $580 
million for medical and prosthetic research. Total discretionary 
spending will be increased over $3.9 billion above the fiscal year 2009 
enacted level.

I am delighted that for the first time VA will receive advance 
appropriations--an additional $48.2 billion in for fiscal year 2011--
for three VA medical care accounts. This coincides with the landmark 
legislation, Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 
2009, which was signed into law as Public Law 111-81 by the President 
on October 22, 2009. Funding VA health care in advance will go a long 
way toward rectifying the chronic underfunding of VA health care, which 
has left so many of the Nation's veterans with unmet health care needs.

This bill fully funds VA's research programs. The $580 million 
appropriation for VHA research represents a $70 million increase from 
the fiscal year 2009 enacted level and an amount equal to the budget 
request. Through these funds, VA will be able to pursue targeted 
research goals like developing better prosthetic devices for the 
younger veterans returning from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. VA can 
continue research into conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder, 
traumatic brain injury, and gulf war Illness. In addition, VA can 
continue to recruit and retain quality health care providers, as over 
three-quarters of VA's researchers also provide direct patient care.

I am pleased that this bill contains an amendment I offered that will 
extend VA's authority to operate the Manila VA Regional Office.

Earlier this year, over 60 years after the end of the World War II, 
surviving Filipino World War II veterans finally received a measure of 
compensation for their service in the form of a one-time lump sum 
payment. These past months have demonstrated that dispersing these 
payments has been an enormous challenge, with multiple steps to 
authenticate the service of these World War II veterans.

Unfortunately, VA's authority to operate the Manila VA Regional 
Office will expire on December 31, 2009. There remains much work to be 
done in order to continue processing claims and ensuring these veterans 
are awarded benefits they have waited six long decades to receive. For 
this and other purposes, the operational authority of the Manila 
Regional Office must be extended.

The Manila Regional Office currently administers compensation, 
pension, vocational rehabilitation and employment, and education 
benefits to over 18,000 beneficiaries. In addition, VA also administers 
Social Security in the Philippines. Keeping this facility fully 
functioning is necessary for these deserving individuals to receive 
critical veterans' benefits as well to carry out an integral part of 
the U.S. mission to the Republic of the Philippines.

I extend my deepest thanks to the staff of the Manila Regional Office 
who have continued to demonstrate unwavering dedication to their duty 
to assist Filipino World War II veterans and indeed all veterans who 
apply for benefits from VA.

Finally, I mention Senator Burr's amendment, included in the 
underlying bill, that would directly support efforts to address 
homelessness among our Nation's veterans. His provisions, of which I am 
a cosponsor, are offset by funds currently allocated for administrative 
costs for an existing homeless program that is essentially defunct--the 
Multifamily Transitional Housing Loan Guarantee Program.

I will be working with Senator Burr in the future to ensure that the 
unspent money for this program--$43 million--can be used for more 
active homeless programs, such as the Grant and Per Diem Program.

In closing, I thank Senators Johnson and Hutchison, the chair and 
ranking member of the Subcommittee on Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs; Senators Inouye and Cochran, the chair and ranking 
member of the Appropriations Committee; and their staffs for their hard 
work in putting this bill together and for working to incorporate 
important veterans-related provisions in the package. Additionally, I 
thank the Members who filed VA-related amendments who worked with the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee to come to agreement on issues that could 
be addressed in this bill.