---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `6bfb29a47ad4d5a353687ba50ab3efeb`
`Mr. SPECTER — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Madam President, this vote on cloture to cut off debate 
involves a conflict between two important principles: (1) obtain 
fairness for the Senate Republican minority on having our resolutions 
and amendments debated and voted upon, and (2) debating and voting on 
the approval or rejection of the President's plan to add 21,500 troops 
to the U.S. force in Iraq.

At the outset, it must be emphasized that there is unanimity that no 
preceptive action be taken by Congress to exercise our ''power of the 
purse'' to cut off funds that would in any way endanger our troops.

In response to the majority leader's use of the Senate rule to ''fill 
the tree,'' which precludes any Republican alternative resolutions, I 
voted against cloture to cut off debate on the Levin amendment on 
February 5. The procedure to ''fill the tree'' is contrary to the basic 
Senate practice of allowing Senators to offer amendments or alternative 
resolutions, unlike the House of Representatives, which customarily 
precludes such latitude.

On February 14, I introduced an amendment to rule XXII to stop the 
''filling of the tree,'' citing vociferous objections by Senators Reid, 
Durbin and Dodd to similar Republican action in the 109th Congress when 
Republicans held a majority.

Although it is very important for the minority to exercise its rights 
to stop abusive majority practices, it is my judgment that this must 
yield to the dominant principle of debating and voting on the future of 
U.S. policy in Iraq. Let's move on. We Republicans can exercise our 
rights of retaliation in the immediate future on other majority action 
to reign in such majority abuse.

In my view, it is most important that the Senate speak out on Iraq. 
If we continue to debate whether there should be a debate while the 
House of Representatives acts, the Senate will become irrelevant. To 
paraphrase the Roman adage: ''The Senate should not fiddle while Iraq 
Burns.''

The American people have a right to know the Senate's judgment on 
this most important issue of the day, and our constituents have a right 
to know and evaluate the judgment of each Senator.

Accordingly, I am voting for cloture to end the debate so we can move 
ahead.