# None
## `6c23f32890e78380d183110afcbc828b`
`Mr. COONS — 22 December 2010`

---


Mr. COONS. Madam President, I am pleased to join my colleagues in 
voicing my strong and unequivocal support for New START. I want to 
thank Senators Kerry and Lugar for their leadership on this issue, and 
join them in urging the Senate to support ratification. New START will 
make America stronger and more secure by building on 30 years of U.S. 
global leadership on nuclear arms control and reduction. This is why it 
has been endorsed by national security leaders on both sides of the 
aisle, including every living Republican Secretary of State, 5 former 
Secretaries of Defense, 7 former commanders of the U.S. Strategic 
Command, the entire Joint Chiefs of Staff, 3 former Presidents, and all 
27 of our NATO allies.

We simply cannot afford to postpone the vote until the 112th Congress 
and delay ratification any further. Military planners have confirmed 
that ratification is essential to U.S. security in an increasingly 
dangerous environment, and 73 percent of Americans support ratification 
according to one recent poll.

As the newest member of the Foreign Relations and Armed Services 
Committees, I did not have the luxury of receiving the wealth of 
information and perspective offered in the 18 public hearings and 
Senate deliberations on this issue. I have, however, received enough 
information from classified briefings to know this is a pressing 
national security matter of the highest order. As we approach a vote, I 
plan on following the strong advice of our military and national 
security leadership, as well as the will of the American people, in 
supporting New START.

New START will enhance U.S. intelligence gathering and restore 
inspections needed to monitor the Russian nuclear force. For more than 
a year, we have been deprived of such inspections due the expiration of 
the original treaty. While opponents of New START have highlighted the 
reduction in the total number of inspections, those which remain 
comprise the most robust strategic arms inspections regime in history. 
By increasing transparency between the United States and Russia, New 
START will enhance our mutual nuclear deterrent. This is just one 
example of why ratification is in America's best security interest.

In addition to reducing the total number of both American and Russian 
deployed strategic nuclear weapons to 1550, New START will limit the 
number of deployed delivery vehicles for nuclear warheads to 700. As we 
consider investing more than $85 billion over the next decade into 
modernizing our current nuclear arsenal, we must also consider the 
practical benefit of maintaining a smaller number of strategic nuclear 
weapons. These limits have been endorsed by our military planners 
because they are commensurate with our current and future defense 
needs. Moreover, reducing the number of deployed strategic warheads and 
delivery vehicles better positions us to invest the savings in nuclear 
modernization.

The United States and Russia share common threats and common 
interests, and, in the words of Vice President Biden, New START is a 
''cornerstone of our efforts to reset relations with Russia.'' Over the 
past 2 years, cooperation between the United States and Russia has 
grown in areas such as supporting sanctions to thwart Iran's nuclear 
development and transferring essential supplies into Afghanistan. At 
this juncture, the Senate's failure to ratify New START could have far-
reaching implications on such progress, including jeopardizing future 
cooperation in these critical areas.

As some of my colleagues propose altering the treaty, I want to voice 
my strong opposition to all amendments, as they would effectively kill 
the agreement by requiring renegotiation with Russia. In the future, we 
can address some of the issues raised during the amendment process--
including Russia's extensive stockpile of tactical nuclear weapons--but 
these matters exceed the breadth of the treaty before us today. I also 
believe that we can achieve a missile defense cooperation agreement 
with Russia, but reaching an understanding on missile defense will be 
easier once we have established an agreed-upon limit to the number of 
deployed strategic nuclear weapons.

America must maintain its global leadership on nuclear arms control 
and nonproliferation, and it is our obligation as Senators to act now. 
It is time to look beyond politics and vote on principle, and I urge 
all Senators to join me in supporting ratification of New START because 
it is a domestic and global security imperative.