---
---

# CONGRATULATING AND SUPPORT-
## `6c23495c7353cf971a1ad82aed152958`
`Mr. BURTON of Indiana — 19 March 2010`

---


Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight to congratulate 
Kazakhstan for its new role as chair of the Organization for the 
Security and Co-operation of Europe, OSCE, and to let this serve as a 
reminder to the world that emerging democracies do in fact have an 
important and pivotal role to play on the global stage.

As we approach the 35th anniversary of the signing of the Helsinki 
accords, a historic declaration by OSCE member states seeking to 
improve relations and foster dialogue between the West and the 
communist countries of the time, it seems duly appropriate to recognize 
the importance of Kazakhstan's new chairmanship since it is the first 
former Soviet state, the first CIS member, and the first central Asian 
country to assume such a role in the 56-member organization.

This past September, I commended Kazakhstan's President Nazarbayev 
for almost 20 years of vision and leadership in transforming the former 
Soviet republic into an emerging and thriving democratic society. The 
unanimous endorsement by all OSCE member states for the chairmanship by 
Kazakhstan only reinforces these enormous and positive steps forward by 
this young democracy from its former Soviet roots.

As a result, Kazakhstan and its neighbors have seen progress in 
regional security as Astana has emerged as both a regional and global 
leader on the non-proliferation and disarmament front, and its citizens 
have seen vast improvements to their daily lives as their country 
emerges as a regional economic leader. Furthermore, Kazakhstan has 
established itself as a strong ally and strategic partner to the United 
States fighting the global war on terror and especially playing an 
active role to ensure stability and security in Afghanistan.

As one of its first acts as a society free from Soviet rule, 
President Nazarbayev positioned Kazakhstan to be a leader in 
nonproliferation by shutting down the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, 
dismantling its nuclear and missile arsenal, which was the world's 
fourth largest at the time, and safely getting rid of, according to the 
president himself, 104 intercontinental missiles from the Soviet Union 
that were each tipped with 10 nuclear warheads.

This was not an easy decision considering the potential influence 
that such an arsenal could yield both in the region and the globe,


but the President has focused his country's efforts on building a ''new 
economic and political model'' that would strengthen its commercial and 
security relationships with the West. As a result, Kazakhstan has 
emerged as a regional economic leader, increasing its GDP to $135 
billion--six times greater than its $22 billion GDP 10 years ago--in 
addition to increasing its foreign trade to more than $80 billion. 
These economic strides and the increase in economic opportunities stand 
in stark contrast to life under communist rule and are enough to mirror 
similar opportunities in many western countries, which is no small feat 
in so little time.

Kazakhstan has also been a reliable ally to the United States, and 
President Nazarbayev has indicated that he looks forward to 
strengthening this relationship in addition to reinvigorating the OSCE. 
Proving his effectiveness and determination to tackle even the toughest 
of challenges, President Nazarbayev welcomes his country's new 
undertaking with the same gusto and leadership that helped him 
transform his country into the promising democracy and economic leader 
that it is today. Alluding to the many global challenges we face today, 
he issued a call to action to the member states, urging them to convene 
in a summit this year, for the first time in 10 years, in order to 
strengthen the role of the OSCE as we face ''one of the most 
complicated periods in modern history.''

One of the main issues he hopes to address and strengthen within the 
OSCE by holding this summit would be security matters and fighting 
terrorism. Accordingly, eliminating the terrorist presence and threat 
in Afghanistan is a matter of high priority that will not only benefit 
the region but will also have long-term positive implications for our 
own national security and international security.

The Kazakh president asserted that ''it is a time when leaders of 
OSCE member states should demonstrate their political will and outline 
solutions to the difficult challenges facing our nations. The summit 
will not only give a powerful impetus to adapting the OSCE to modern 
challenges and threats, but also increase the confidence and respect 
among our peoples to the organization itself.''

Madam Speaker and fellow colleagues, I once again commend President 
Nazarbayev for his steadfast vision and leadership and urge you today 
to support him as he sets out to reestablish dialogue among all OSCE 
member states by convening a summit this year. Such an assembly can 
only foster cooperation that will ultimately lead to increased security 
and stability for all.
