---
---

# VETERANS' MENTAL HEALTH AND OTHER CARE IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `6c327a3aaec82b372da630e980c20a43`
`Mr. FILNER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

We are considering two bills. This first one, S. 2162, as amended, 
the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008, 
and the next one is going to be about the Veterans' Benefits 
Improvement Act of 2008. These are two bills which passed the Senate, 
and is an omnibus bill that includes legislation from the Senate and 
from the House.

Many of our Members have legislation in this bill. And they are two 
bills that are really going to be great for veterans, greatly enhance 
the benefit in both the health field and on the benefit field.

As we have discussed these bills, we have learned much about the 
needs of our Nation's veterans, and this bill goes a long way to 
address them. Rates for post traumatic stress disorder, for example, 
amongst Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans 
has been estimated to be higher than 30 percent. Additionally, as we 
have tragically learned, suicide is on the rise. The Army reports, in 
fact, rates as high as they were during the Vietnam War. And the rate 
of homelessness among this cohort is also tragically growing. We must 
act now to address these issues before it's too late.

We know from past wars that some veterans will struggle with 
substance abuse, homelessness, and PTSD. And we can see the same 
patterns emerging as a result of the stress of repeated deployments to 
OEF and OIF.

This bill expands and improves the health care services available to 
veterans fighting substance use disorders and requires that all VA 
medical centers provide veterans access to the full continuum of care 
for substance use disorders.

I would like to recognize both the leadership of the chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Health, Mr. Michaud, and Ms. Berkley for their strong 
advocacy for veterans who suffer with substance use disorder and for 
their contributions to this very important provision in the bill.

As a way to honor the memory of Justin Bailey, a brave veteran that 
we lost to the horrors of war, this bill would ensure that the VA 
conduct more research about the often tragic relationship between PTSD 
and substance use disorders. The bill allows


community mental health centers in rural areas to work with the VA to 
provide peer outreach and support services as well as readjustment and 
mental health services.

We now know that PTSD not only affects the veteran, but also has a 
profound effect on their family. Thanks to the leadership of Mr. Hare 
from Illinois, this bill makes necessary changes to the law to allow 
the VA to provide needed counseling to families of veterans.

In addition to addressing the mental health challenges facing our 
veterans, many also experience homelessness. While the VA continues to 
be the largest provider of direct services to homeless veterans, we 
must ensure that it remains postured to assist the growing number of 
homeless veterans and veterans at risk for homelessness. To this end, 
the bill increases the authorization for homeless programs to $150 
million.

It also expands and extends a valuable joint VA and Department of 
Labor program of referral and counseling services, ensures that the VA 
domiciliary program is capable of meeting the needs of the growing 
female population, and provides necessary support to low-income veteran 
families that have made the transition to permanent housing. I want to 
thank Mr. Murphy and Ms. Herseth Sandlin for their focus on this issue 
and ensuring that these provisions are in the bill.

Aside from mental health and homelessness, many veterans struggle to 
cope with chronic and acute pain. This pain lingers long after the 
physical wounds of war have healed and affects the quality of life of 
many veterans. Thanks to Mr. Walz of Minnesota's leadership, this bill 
would require the VA to develop and implement a system-wide policy on 
pain management.

S. 2162 also improves the health care for certain groups of 
especially vulnerable populations within the VA. It establishes 
Epilepsy Centers of Excellence to care for the 89,000 veterans with 
epilepsy, provides comprehensive health care to children of Vietnam 
veterans born with spina bifida, and updates VA policies regarding HIV 
testing. This would not have been possible without the hard work of Mr. 
Perlmutter of Colorado, Mr. Ellsworth of Indiana, and Mr. Doyle of 
Pennsylvania.

Next, this bill would reduce the financial burden placed on our 
veterans. It requires the VA to reimburse veterans for the cost of 
emergency treatment received in non-VA facilities, prohibits the 
collection of copayments for all hospice care furnished by the VA, and 
increases the beneficiary travel mileage reimbursement rate to the 
current government employee rate. I want to thank Mr. Space of Ohio for 
his contribution on the emergency treatment provision. And I would like 
to thank Mr. Miller from Florida for his work on prohibiting copayments 
for hospice care.

Another challenge facing the VA is rural health. Today, nearly 39 
percent of veterans enrolled in the VA health care system live in rural 
areas. Despite the expansion of community-based outpatient clinics and 
vet centers, many rural veterans still have problems of access. Thanks 
to Mr. Moran of Kansas' leadership, this bill requires the VA to 
conduct a 3-year pilot program in five Veterans Integrated Service 
Networks to allow highly rural veterans to seek covered health services 
from non-VA health care providers.

The VA is currently authorized to collect third-party payments from 
veterans' insurance companies, but due to ineffective procedures, over 
$1 billion go uncollected annually. This legislation would require the 
VA to establish no more than seven other Consolidated Patient Account 
Centers to enable it to improve its billing performance. And I want to 
recognize and thank my ranking member, Mr. Buyer of Indiana, for his 
contributions to this issue.

The bill also gives the VA the legal authorities it needs to move 
forward in major facility construction projects and leases so that it 
can continue to provide world-class health care to veterans in world-
class facilities.

The bill also extends or makes permanent a number of important 
expiring authorities.

Finally, the bill would name the VA Spinal Cord Injury Center in 
Tampa, Florida, after our former colleague, Michael Bilirakis. It was 
through former Congressman Bilirakis' efforts that this center came 
into being. He served in the Air Force in the 1950s and served in 
Congress for 24 years. It is fitting that we recognize his efforts in 
naming the center after him.

I want to recognize and thank Mr. Miller of Florida for his 
leadership on this issue, and also the younger Mr. Bilirakis from 
Florida for carrying on his father's tradition.

Mr. Speaker, both Republican and Democratic Members of this committee 
made major contributions to this bill. And I want to thank the staff 
from both sides of the aisle for putting together such a comprehensive 
package. It takes care of the men and women who have given so much to 
defend this Nation, provides our veterans with the quality health care 
programs and services they need and they so richly deserve.

I hope my colleagues will support S. 2162, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.