---
---

# HONORING TOBY KEITH'S COMMITMENT TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
## `6c364ad9a1122aadac68b54e4609452b`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend a great Oklahoman and American 
patriot, whose unceasing support for the men and women in our armed 
services has been a hallmark of his career. Country music star Toby 
Keith was born and raised in my hometown of Moore, Oklahoma, and is now 
a resident just south of us in Norman, Oklahoma, and has made it his 
mission as an entertainer to keep our troops entertained and to boost 
their morale as they serve this Nation in some of the most dangerous, 
remote places on the planet.

This resolution outlines Mr. Keith's commitment to our troops and 
encourages other entertainers to take into consideration Toby Keith's 
deep commitment to boosting the morale of our Nation's soldiers when 
supporting USO operations.

As many of you know, Mr. Speaker, Toby Keith is one of the most 
successful country music stars of the last two decades. His songs not 
only appeal to a wide variety of listeners but are also critically 
acclaimed.

On a personal note, I'll tell my friend on the other side of the 
aisle, he's actually a very good Democrat. But like all of us, I think 
he's an American and I'm proud to say an Oklahoman, far ahead of being 
affiliated with any political party.

Despite his fantastic success as a performer, I'm here to highlight 
the work Mr. Keith has done for the United Service Organizations. Since 
the founding of USO in 1941, thousands of celebrities have taken time 
out of their lives to visit service men and women who sacrifice their 
lives for the cause of freedom. These shows not only help to boost 
morale among our troops but also help to connect our Armed Forces to 
America when they are far from home, Mr. Speaker.

Since before the United States entered the Second World War, the USO 
has been the bridge between the American public and the U.S. military. 
These performances also remind the troops that we are all eternally 
grateful for the work they do.

Today, the USO delivers its programs and services at more than 130 
locations around the world. More recently, the USO opened centers in 
Kuwait, Qatar and Afghanistan to support service members participating 
in Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom. The organization relies on 
over 25,000 volunteers, and servicemembers and their families visit USO 
centers 5.3 million times a year, Mr. Speaker.

Country music personalities have always been an essential element of 
the USO's entertainment. In the early years, performers like Gene 
Autry, another notable Oklahoman--actually Gene Autry, Oklahoma, is in 
my district as well, Mr. Speaker--Patsy Cline, and many other acts from 
the Grand Ole Opry have traveled around the world to entertain our 
troops. Today, performers like Neal McCoy and Lee Ann Womack have all 
gone to Iraq to entertain our troops. However, few celebrities have 
visited our troops fighting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan 
with as much fervor and frequency as Toby Keith.

Mr. Speaker, Toby Keith has made six USO tours, including 
entertaining over 135,000 U.S. service personnel in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
Cuba, Germany, Belgium, Kosovo, Italy, and Africa. In fact, he has 
volunteered to perform at some of the most dangerous and remote 
locations in the Persian Gulf, including forward operating bases with 
populations of as few as 50 servicemembers that require Apache escort 
helicopters to reach. In many of these cases, these places and the 
garrisons literally haven't had entertainment in many, many months.

The USO also noted in our discussions with them, Mr. Speaker, that 
Toby's brought back valuable insight from forward deployed troops, 
including things they would request from the USO and the American 
public. As a result, the USO has developed a program called USO 
Delivered, which includes transportable USO centers for remote areas.

On April 28, 2008, while performing in one of these dangerous 
locations, Kandahar, Afghanistan, mortar fire disrupted one of Mr. 
Keith's concerts. Instead of packing up and going home, Toby Keith 
returned to the stage to finish the show. This attitude, that all 
troops no matter where they are stationed deserve our support, is what 
makes Toby Keith an exemplary patriot, and all entertainers should, and 
I'm sure do, take a good lesson from his dedication to our men and 
women in uniform.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Keith's visits to the USO are not only places where 
he deserves recognition for supporting our troops. He also freely 
provides tickets to military personnel for all of his shows in the 
U.S., and servicemembers showing military ID are allowed to eat and 
drink for free at his restaurants. Toby Keith also reflects his deep 
admiration for the troops in his hit song ''American Soldier'' which 
hails the work that our Armed Forces do to protect us all on a daily 
basis.

Mr. Speaker, at a time when the thousands of Americans question the 
merits of our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is essential that 
our service men and women know that we support their dedication to 
America, regardless of our political disagreements at home. Toby Keith 
has been a stalwart supporter of our troops throughout his career and 
deserves our recognition and our appreciation. Regardless of one's 
opinion on our involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, supporting our men 
and women overseas is certainly something that all Members of this body 
encourage and support.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to vote ''yes'' on House Resolution 1255 
and honor a true patriot.

I reserve the balance of my time.