---
---

# None
## `6c488410d3c49424ea2e1087010523ac`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to once 
again start our 30-Something hour. We will be joined later by 
Congressman Meek from Florida to talk about the issues of the day and 
how what has been happening here in Congress affects what is going on 
to young people, but not limited to just young people in the 30-
something bracket, but also to young people in college, young people in 
their 20s, young people trying to figure out how they are going to make 
their way in the American economy in the 21st century.

As we know, Mr. Speaker, we have been given many challenges over the 
past few years here in Congress dealing with many of the issues that 
face Americans.

Since Speaker Pelosi took over a short time ago, we have been 
committed, since this Congress was taken over by the Democratic Party, 
we have been committed to push initiatives that are consistent with the 
values that we hold dear in the United States of America. We hear a lot 
of rhetoric about values in this country, but if the policy initiatives 
that come out of this beautiful building in Washington, DC do not 
reflect our values, then we are in the wrong business.

And I am proud to say that since we have taken over here, we have 
shifted course from policies that many Americans believe have taken us 
in the wrong direction. And many of us still believe, even those of us 
here think we have made a shift in policy, but it has been difficult 
with the President to try to get a complete pivot out of the months and 
months and months and years and years and years of bad policy.

So I think it is important before we talk a little bit about what we 
have done is to go back and think about what we are trying to come out 
of, some of the challenges that this country faces. I think it is 
important to recognize politically that from 2000 until 2006, the 
Republican Party controlled the House, controlled the Senate, and 
controlled the White House. They had an opportunity to implement their 
policy--the neoconservative foreign policy, the conservative domestic 
policy, the conservative energy policy, the conservative higher-ed 
policy in America, the conservative ''compassionate conservative'' 
agenda on poverty and inequality--has all been implemented.

So when we talk about what will it look like if the conservative 
agenda is implemented, I think that is a false analysis of what will it 
look like. I think we know. I think what we are living with here today 
is the implementation of the conservative Republican agenda. They 
controlled the House, they controlled the Senate and the White House. 
The Bush tax policy, the Bush energy policy, all of these things that I 
have already mentioned have been implemented.

And if you want to know what it looks like, all you really need to do 
is go to the gas tank. You need to get your health care bill and see 
what your premium and the costs look like. You need to pull out the 
stub of your child's tuition. All of these things are the end result of 
the Republican domestic agenda being implemented here in the United 
States of America. You may not like it. I know a lot of Republicans, 
Mr. Speaker, who don't like it, but that is where we are.

And if you look at the financial situation that this country has been 
put in, the straightjacket that we have been put in that a lot of the 
changes that the Democratic Congress wants to make that we are at this 
point unable to make because of the financial position that we have 
been put in as a country and as a Nation, the fact of the matter is 
this: President Bush, Mr. Speaker, and the Republican Congresses that 
were under his watch borrowed more money from foreign interests than 
every President and Congress before President Bush combined.

Now think about that. In just those few years, President Bush and the 
Republican Congress borrowed more money from foreign interests than 
every President and Congress before them combined. The Republican-
controlled Congress and President Bush raised the debt limit five times 
and borrowed $3 trillion primarily from Japan, China, and OPEC 
countries.

Now you want to talk about a scam going on and a shell game, we have 
a situation where we are borrowing money from oil-producing countries 
to basically give us money to go out and buy their oil, or to borrow 
money from oil-producing countries and from China so we can fund a war 
at $12 billion a month and put it on the credit card. Now that seems to 
me the definition of insanity, Mr. Speaker. Three trillion dollars, and 
this is as simple as your house payment or your car payment. You borrow 
money and you have to pay interest on it.

So countries like China will get the interest that the United States 
is paying on the money that we have borrowed, and the Chinese will take 
that money and they will sink it into developing and industrializing 
their own economy. And they are putting up nuclear plants so they have 
nuclear energy. And they are building roads, bridges and industrial 
parks. And they are funding their military and their navy. That is what 
they are doing with money that the United States is borrowing from 
them. And we take the money and we get ourselves into this war in Iraq 
at $12 billion a month, that is soon approaching a trillion dollars for 
the cost of the war, and some economists are saying at the end of the 
war, the grand total will be $3 trillion.

Now from Youngstown, Ohio, and Niles, Ohio, and Akron, Ohio, the 
folks that I represent are not really comfortable with the United 
States taking their tax dollars and paying interest on money they are 
borrowing from the Chinese so that the Chinese can build manufacturing 
facilities and manipulate their currency and ship the products back to 
the United States and put American workers out of work.



Now, there's something ironic about what's happening there. And 
there's really something sick, Mr. Speaker, about what's happening 
here. And when you look at the polls and you hear people say that 70 
percent of Americans think that we're going in the wrong direction, the 
President has an approval rating of 28 percent, and the other 72 
percent do not approve of the job that he is doing, you have to ask 
yourself, what is wrong? What is wrong? What is going on to have this 
dramatic breach in the American body politic?

And so, when Speaker Pelosi, and when we ran our elections in 2006 to 
come and take over Congress in 2007, it became imperative for us to try 
to pivot and shift this thing in another direction. So one of the 
issues is make sure that we pay for programs that we have here in the 
United States. No deficit spending.

Now, we've had problems, especially with the war, because we're 
committed over there. And it's been very difficult. We've tried to get 
out.

The President has vetoed every attempt we've ever tried to make. But 
we're trying to establish public policy in the United States of America 
that represent our values.

And if you look at what we have pushed coming out of this body, I 
think most Americans would agree, these are some pretty basic steps 
that we want to take. First thing we did when we got in is raise the 
minimum wage. For the first time since 1997, the American worker got a 
pay raise. It wasn't much. It should be a lot more. But we did what we 
could. And we said, this is a priority for us. 10 years without an 
increase in the minimum wage, but health care and energy and all of 
these other costs are going up for folks. Let's try to lift some people 
up, reward work. And we did that.

We have switched and tried to repeal the oil subsidies, corporate 
welfare, many of us know it as corporate welfare. Everyone hates 
welfare if we're giving it to poor people. They should go to work. They 
should work. This is America. We should not give welfare. That's the 
rhetoric that you hear.

But behind the scenes, our friends on the other side and President 
Bush are


very happy to give the oil companies 14 or $15 billion in oil 
subsidies, in energy subsidies.

Now, can you imagine, and today when you go to the gas pump and you 
pay $3.50, $3.75, $4 for a gallon of gas. You think you're frosted just 
filling up the tank. Think about the fact that President Bush said that 
he will veto any bill that comes out of this House that repeals the $15 
billion that's going in corporate welfare to the oil companies.

Now, can you imagine, in this day and age, where Exxon's profits are 
through the roof, that the President of the United States says he will 
veto a bill that strips the corporate welfare out?

They're making tremendous profits. And what we have tried to do on 
the Democratic side, and Speaker Pelosi has tried to do, is to take 
that 14 or $15 billion away from the oil companies, away from the 
energy companies, and invest that money into alternative energy 
research; into wind, into biomass, into solar.

Now, we all know that these alternative energy forms, there's not one 
silver bullet. There's not one project or product that's going to come 
out and save us all and be a panacea for the entire United States of 
America and the world. We know that.

But Americans invent things. Americans make things better. Americans 
take a challenge and a problem and they fix it, and they solve it. They 
put the best and the brightest people that we have in this country, and 
they set a goal.

I'm not going to go do the research. President Bush certainly isn't 
going to go do the research. We've got a couple of rocket scientists 
that belong in this body that have been elected by their constituents 
here that may be able to actually do some of the research. But, for the 
most part, our job here is to set the public policy and provide the 
resources and the leadership for the country. And that's what we're 
trying to do is to say, invest into the Department of Energy, partner 
with energy companies.

We know you're not going to get rid of oil overnight. Many of us 
believe nuclear has a major role in what's going to happen here. But 
the bottom line is, let's make an investment into the United States, 
into the people, into the human resources that we have here to figure 
out what we're going to do, and then get the private sector and private 
enterprise to partner with us to get this thing kicked off.

It is crucial for us to reduce our dependency on foreign oil, crucial 
because we can extract ourselves from a lot of these political 
situations that we find ourselves in. In a lot of the global politics 
that we see and read, if you read between the lines and you think for 
yourself, you will see that there is some kind of energy component 
behind this, behind the politics that are going on, the geopolitics 
that are going on. And if we can become dependent on the Midwest 
instead of the Mideast, I think this country will remove itself from a 
lot of the problems that we have had, and we could help move this 
country forward. And that's what we are committed to doing here in the 
United States.

And just today, or yesterday, out of the Education Committee, George 
Miller, who's the Chair of the committee, they passed an authorization, 
I think, of $6 billion, if I remember correctly, to help schools, new 
schools. There'll be a formula to make sure that the school is green. 
So now, you're providing some leadership for the companies that will 
provide the products for a school or a building to become green. 
There'll be a little bit of a stimulation.

And I want to tell one quick story that I found interesting. We have 
a gentleman here in Congress, his name is Jim Oberstar, and he's the 
Chair of the Transportation Committee. He's been here since the late 
1970s.

And I may miss a few of the facts here, but the point can be made 
that in the late 1970s, when he was a Member of Congress, and President 
Carter was in, he was trying to--the solar panel, there was some money 
put into the Department of Energy to research and develop alternative 
energy sources. And something popped out of that, it was called the 
solar panel.

And Mr. Oberstar had a piece of legislation that said we need to 
retrofit all Federal office buildings in the United States with solar 
panels. And by the Federal Government coming in and buying the solar 
panels, it will stimulate the solar panel market because the Federal 
Government is such a big consumer, and just like buying pens and 
everything else, and it will drive the cost down of the solar panels. 
So that was in 1977, 1978.

In 1980, when President Reagan came in, he completely eliminated that 
part of the Department of Energy that was providing that research and, 
basically, nothing happened. And he has now went from a rank and file 
member; Mr. Oberstar is now the Chair of the Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee. So he now has this bill that he reintroduced, 
told his staff to go back and get his notes from 30 years ago about 
what he wanted to do with solar panels.

Now, can you imagine how far behind the 8-ball we are? When you look 
at production of solar panels, it used to be an industry that the 
United States excelled in and that we had a great share of the solar 
panel market in the early 1990s. But now, we have been surpassed 
because we have not made the investments.

And I'm not here, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Meek, to say that government 
somehow has all the answers. But we do have a role to play in 
stimulating the economy, Mr. Meek. And when we do that, we will allow 
the private sector to come in.

So we need to do what we need to do with alternative energy research. 
We need to do what we need to do with high speed rail. We need to do 
what we need to do with broadband access. These are the things that 
government has a role in, infrastructure, education, health care. These 
are the things that we need to invest in. And that's what we've been 
trying to do in the area of health care.

One of the things that, I mean, you can't really find a better 
example or illustration of a difference in values from Speaker Pelosi 
and President Bush on this one issue. It's the issue of state, the 
State Children's Health Insurance Program. When we came in, one of 
Speaker Pelosi's priorities was to provide leadership and resources for 
the State Children's Health Insurance Program.

This is a program that would provide health care, Mr. Meek, for 10 
million children of modest income, didn't quite qualify for Medicaid, 
middle class kids, middle class families struggling to provide health 
care. This was to fill that gap. Bipartisan support here in the House, 
and in the Senate, tremendous support.

So it passed the House, passed the Senate, President Bush vetoed it. 
Now, can you imagine where your priorities are when you're willing to 
spend $12 billion a month in Iraq, and you won't sign a children's 
health care bill to provide health care for middle class citizens at 
$35 billion over 5 years?

But you'll spend 12 billion a month in Iraq and not even ask a 
question as to where the money's going. There's billions of dollars 
that are lost in Iraq, nobody knows where they are, Mr. Speaker. Nobody 
knows where that money is.

And we struggle to find $35 billion to provide health care for modest 
income families. That investment that, at the end of the day, will 
probably save us billions of dollars because these kids won't go right 
to the emergency room. They'll have some preventative care. That will 
save us money in the long run. And the President vetoed it. And he 
vetoed it.

And in the Senate, 80 Senators overrode the veto. But in the House, 
we could not override the veto because a handful of Republicans on the 
other side were committed to support the President in his position.

Now, can you imagine that? In the wealthiest country in the world, 
the dominant super power, we can't scrape up $35 billion over 5 years 
to provide health care for middle class kids?

And the President thinks he's taken a stand on this issue and saying 
he's fiscally responsible, after running up $3 trillion in debt, 
borrowing it from Japan and China and OPEC countries?

When you're deciding on where your philosophies are, what your values 
are, this is the issue. This is the defining issue. Health care for 
kids, $12 billion a month in Iraq. Tax cuts for people who make 
billions of dollars a year, health care for kids?



This is clear. And our job, as representatives of the people, Mr. 
Meek, and I'll kick it to you here in a second, is to make sure that we 
bring some equity into this system.

And I will say this. The investments that we have made, or tried to 
make on SCHIP, the minimum wage, alternative energy, the fact that we 
did pass, and the President did sign a $1,000 increase in Pell Grants 
over 5 years, for students, and we cut the student loan interest rate 
in half, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. So if you are going out 
trying to borrow for your kids, your interest rate is cut in half.

Those are the priorities that we push every day here on this House 
floor. Those are the priorities that are going to lead to an expansion 
of our economy.

We only have 300 million people in this country, Mr. Meek. There's 
1.2 or 1.3 billion in China, 1.2 or 1.3 billion in India. We only have 
300 million. And the philosophy of our party is to make sure that we 
invest into those 300 million people, to make sure they're educated and 
they're healthy. And I feel like if we make sure our kids are educated 
and healthy, that most everything else will take care of itself.



That's where we are. That's the agenda we're pushing.

Mr. Meek, I appreciate the fact that you're taking time away from 
your busy schedule and family to come down here, and I would like to 
yield to my very good friend from Florida.