# None
## `6c534544f9a7aa30f48540453d2742c0`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, you would think there would be no 
disagreement that support for our troops which begins on the 
battlefield shouldn't end there, yet some Senate Republicans deleted 
from this very legislation an important provision authorizing 
eligibility for below-market affordable home loans of up to $325,000 
through our Texas Veterans Land


Board for our Texas veterans. These are the servicemen and women who 
served in Iraq and in Afghanistan and over the last 30 years who are 
excluded from the current program.

Today we say once more to these Senate obstructionists, stop and 
remember that those who fight to keep our homes safe deserve a fighting 
chance at homeownership. This bill is truly a way to honor our vets, 
not only with our words, but with our deeds; in this case, deeds to a 
home. When our vets are willing to pay the ultimate price for our 
freedom, we can afford the price of correcting this disparity.

This bill also prevents the expiration of existing group health 
insurance guarantees for mental health coverage. While maintaining this 
protection is very important, what we really need is prompt approval of 
full equity in all health insurance coverage so that mental health 
services are not treated differently from physical health services. 
Whether it is a broken leg or a broken spirit, folks need affordable 
access to professional care that includes treatment for addiction and 
depression. I salute our colleagues Congressman Kennedy and Congressman 
Ramstad in their bipartisan effort for mental health parity, including 
addiction and depression. Let's get it done in 2008.

Approval of today's bill encourages equity, equity in covering 
veterans whenever they have served, and at least a little equity in 
mental health coverage.