# H. RES. 866, VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT
## `6c596429ac285a635e73c953141d93a9`
`Mr. KIND — 17 November 2009`

---


Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 
866 which encourages the designation of a National Veterans History 
Project Week. This resolution encourages increased public participation 
in the Veterans History Project.

As you may know, the Veterans History Project collects and saves the 
stories of America's veterans who have bravely served this country from 
World War I to today's conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. This project 
provides Americans an important way to honor our soldiers: by 
preserving the story of their service, in their own words, for the use 
and benefit of future generations.

In 2000, I authored and Congress unanimously passed legislation 
creating the Veterans History Project. Since its inception, the project 
has collected more than 66,000 stories and documents. In addition, the 
Veterans History Project was honored by Harvard University as one of 
the finalists for the Innovations in American Government Award 
competition in 2005.

Since the beginning of our Nation, the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and 
marines of the Armed Forces have been called on to risk their lives and 
fight for the ideals that make America great. Regardless of what one 
thinks about the wars that they fought in, all Americans must agree 
that the men and women of our Armed Forces have responded to the call 
of their country and performed with honor and dignity. War veterans and 
the civilians who have supported them all across this Nation have 
stepped forward once again, this time answering the call of civic duty 
by recording their stories and contributing personal documents for the 
Veterans History Project. Their participation ensures that their 
accounts are recorded and preserved, becoming a part of this Nation's 
memory and history.

By passing this resolution today, we can encourage more participation 
in this important program and ensure that this vital collection of 
American history continues to grow even further. Capturing the stories 
of our war veterans is more important now than ever before. We are 
losing more than 1,700 veterans every day and with them, their 
firsthand accounts of that war. It is imperative that we capture the 
stories and personal histories of those veterans before it is too late. 
The Veterans History Project is instrumental in accomplishing this 
important goal.

I call upon all members of this body to publicize and promote the 
Veterans History Project in their own districts and communities. I 
cannot think of a better way to honor our veterans than by trying to 
preserve as many of their memories and stories as possible. I urge my 
colleagues to support this measure.
