---
---

# ECONOMIC STIMULUS ACT OF 2008
## `6c5ba2f45fe2a0986be1eeb33ebaef67`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 7 February 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I thank the distinguished 
chairman, Mr. Rangel; and to Mr. Kanjorski; the whole team; and our 
most forthright and determined Speaker and this bipartisan leadership 
that has responded to the pain and the hurt of so many Americans.

Some would ask the question why are we moving so fast and why are we 
investing in people who are those who would receive dollars who happen 
to be low income. Because people are hurting. So I'm glad that we have 
these values that have created this vehicle to help America and that we 
are including help and rebates for the elderly. We are including moneys 
for 35 million families who work but yet make too little to pay income 
tax in the way that you think of them paying, but they do pay taxes. 
They will get a rebate. Disabled veterans will get a rebate.

But I look forward to the time when we can extend the unemployment, 
we can expand food stamps and Medicaid only because people are hurting. 
Why are they hurting? Because we are spending $120 billion in Iraq. For 
the gentleman who just spoke, if we stop doing that, we will be able to 
provide for the engine of the economy.

Why do we need it? Because in this budget right here that the 
President has offered, $39 million will be taken away in social 
services block grants from Texans and millions of dollars for the rest 
of Americans. Why are we hurting? Because $47 million will be taken 
away from Texans as it relates to community block grants. And 200 
communities will be impacted. More people hurting.

This is the right direction. This economic stimulus package is quick. 
It gives back to families. It gives back to hardworking families. It 
gives back to moderate- and low-income families. And it says that 
Warren Buffet is right. Give money to hardworking Americans so that 
they can make a difference. Give money to invest in communities so we 
can build up the economic economy.

And, lastly, let me say thank you so very much for the increase in 
the FHA loans of $729,000.

People are hurting, and we need to be able to provide for those 
people who are hurting. A moratorium on foreclosures is necessary. 
Support the economic stimulus.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Senate Amendments to 
the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act. 
I would like to thank Speaker Pelosi for her leadership on this issue, 
as well as my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have worked 
together to overcome partisan divisions to work together to stimulate 
our national economy. This legislation will inject over $106 billion 
into the economy in 2008, over 2/3 of which will come in the form of 
tax rebate checks, given directly to individuals and families. I also 
want to thank the Senate for their amendments which extend the stimulus 
rebate checks to 250,000 disabled veterans and at least 20 million 
additional American seniors living on Social Security.

However, while I support this legislation, I would like to express my 
concern about some of this bill's omissions. requested and had hoped 
that this legislation would include language declaring that it is the 
sense of Congress that a moratorium of up to 90 days should be declared 
on all home foreclosures, and that it is the sense of Congress that the 
financial industry should allow for the reconstruction and 
reconfiguration of the mortgage loan market.

Madam Speaker, I would have liked to see the following language 
included in the final legislation, agreed on by both Houses and signed 
into law by the President:

(i) It is the sense of Congress that a moratorium of up to 90 days 
should be declared on all home foreclosures.

(ii) It is the sense of Congress that the financial industry should 
allow for the reconstruction and reconfiguration of the mortgage loan 
market.

It was my sincere hope, shared by many economists, that a temporary 
economic adjustment period including a cap on adjustable mortgage rates 
would provide relief for millions of Americans, and that this added 
time would give them time to look for other resources. By delaying 
foreclosure, Congress would have declared that millions of Americans 
deserve to make their payments, or to get their loans restructured 
before they lose their homes. Those who can keep paying would continue 
putting money back into our economy. Madam Speaker, we must act now to 
prevent what could be a disaster for millions of Americans.

There are a number of additional proposals that I would have liked to 
see included in the final Economic Stimulus package. I believe it 
should have included a summer job program, aimed at helping our 
nation's youth gain the crucial work experience and job skills that 
will allow them to be competitive in today's increasingly difficult 
employment market. By working to Provide Americans with the skills they 
need to successfully secure and keep employment, we can not only help 
both adults and youth to develop their careers and to support 
themselves and their families, but we can bolster the whole economy by 
combating poverty and unemployment.


I would also like to see the extension and expansion of several 
existent programs which are already doing important work toward helping 
Americans such as unemployment benefits. Under the strain of current 
financial circumstances, I believe that we must bolster these important 
programs, especially for hard working Americans who have lost their 
jobs. Madam Speaker, I call for the expansion of food stamps and 
Medicaid programs, and for the extension of unemployment benefits.

Given the current economic climate, I believe that is our 
responsibility, as the leaders of our nation, to do all in our power to 
ensure that the most vulnerable populations are protected. That is why 
I am particularly pleased to support the Senate amendments extending 
benefits to disabled veterans who risked their lives to protect the 
freedoms we cherish and seniors who spent decades of their lives 
contributing to our economy.

Madam Speaker, now is the time for innovative leadership and 
concerted action. Recent data shows economic growth is slowing, and 
many economic analysts predict a 50% chance of recession. According to 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, unemployment rose from 4.7% to 5.0% in 
November 2007 alone. This data, coupled with a struggling housing 
market and overall slowing economic growth, has caused a ''credit 
crunch'' that has reduced available funding and has caused rising 
prices for housing and food.

Over the past year, we have seen a crisis in subprime mortgage 
lending, which has threatened the stability of the housing market and 
the livelihoods of large numbers of Americans. During the third quarter 
of 2007, the nation's home foreclosures doubled from the previous year. 
This Democratic Congress is committed to strengthening the housing 
market and stabilizing the economy, and we have passed important 
legislation to address this crisis.

Because of the lack of regulation by the federal government, many 
housing loans were accompanied by fraud, predatory lending, inadequate 
information and other failures of responsible marketing. With 
exceptionally high (and rising) foreclosure rates across the country, 
homeowners all over America are losing their homes. Homeowners are 
surprised to find out that their monthly payments are spiking and they 
are struggling to make these increasingly high payments.

The sub-prime mortgage crisis has impacted families and communities 
across the country. Home foreclosure filings rose to 1.2 million in 
2006--a 42 percent jump--due to rising mortgage bills and a slowing 
housing market. Nationally, as many as 2.4 million sub-prime borrowers 
have either lost their homes or could lose them in the next few years.



In my home state of Texas, citizens are feeling the impact of the 
looming financial crisis. In November 2007 alone, there were 11,599 
foreclosure filings in Texas. According to the Center for Responsible 
Lending, in Harris County alone 11,944 homes were lost from 2005-2006 
through foreclosure on sub prime loans. During the same time period, 
the average home decreased $1,355 in total value.


Madam Speaker, I firmly believe that this agreement should include a 
moratorium on foreclosures of at least 90 days on owner-occupied homes 
with subprime mortgages. Any agreement should also include a rate 
freeze on adjustable mortgages of at least five years or until the loan 
is converted into a fixed-rate mortgage. The freeze on foreclosures 
would give the housing market time to stabilize and homeowners time to 
build equity. It is critical that we address this crisis. The Bush 
administration and the mortgage industry must reach an agreement that 
matches the scale of the problem. The U.S. Treasury Department has been 
pushing the mortgage industry to agree to temporarily freeze interest 
rates for some borrowers who took out loans with low teaser rates that 
will soon be resetting much higher.

Madam Speaker, it is imperative that we address the serious 
underlying housing issues faced by our nation. 17 million households, 
or one in seven, spend more than 50% of their income on housing. On any 
given night, approximately 750,000 men, women, and children are 
homeless. Constructing more affordable housing is necessary to help 
families who have lost their homes in the subprime mortgage crisis or 
due to a family financial crisis, such as illness or job loss. In my 
home district in Houston, homelessness remains a significant problem. 
Houston's homeless population increased to approximately 14,000 in 
2005, before Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and hurricane evacuees 
remaining in the Houston area could result in the homeless population 
increasing by some 23,000. Approximately 28% of homeless Americans are 
veterans.

In August, I, in coordination with the Texas Department of Housing 
and Community Affairs, hosted a workshop on the introductory concepts 
and considerations in applying for Housing Tax Credits in Texas. This 
workshop was designed to create new incentives for developers to expand 
business opportunities in housing development, as well as to generate a 
significant increase in the availability of low-income and affordable 
housing for the residents of Houston and Harris County. I believe that 
an increase in affordable housing and job opportunities will help 
reduce the high rates of homelessness among Houston residents.

Madam Speaker, today's economic stimulus legislation will make 
important strides towards helping hardworking Americans who are 
struggling with the high costs of gas, health care, and groceries. By 
putting several hundred dollars directly into the hands of over 130 
million American families, this legislation will make important strides 
toward invigorating our economy, giving money to those who will quickly 
spend it, reinvesting this money in the American economy.

This bill provides broad-based relief for individuals and families, 
valued at approximately $115 billion over 10 years. The packages 
include tax cuts for 130 million families, providing up to $600 per 
individual, $1,200 per married couple, and an additional $300 per 
child. On top of these recovery rebate checks, which could be sent as 
early as mid-May, this legislation will provide unprecedented tax 
relief for working families, with $32 billion in tax relief for 35 
million families who work but make too little to pay income taxes, who 
would therefore otherwise not be included in this recovery effort. It 
is targeted to reach those who need the relief the most: of these 35 
million working families, over 19 million are families with children. I 
support provisions in this legislation providing tax relief to middle-
income Americans, as well as those aspiring to the middle class, 
leaving out the wealthiest taxpayers. Nearly $50 billion of the rebate 
will go to those making less than $50,000.

Madam Speaker, family incomes and home prices are down, even as the 
costs of health care, energy, food, and education are on the rise. 
Combined with the jump in mortgage foreclosures, the American economy 
is struggling, with American families falling behind on their bills and 
consumer confidence hitting a five year low.

This bill also contains some provisions to help families avoid 
foreclosure. It increases affordable refinancing opportunities and 
liquidity in the housing market, increasing the Federal Housing 
Administration loan limits to $729,750 for 2008. This will expand 
affordable mortgage loan opportunities for families at risk of 
foreclosure. Further, it includes a one-year increase in loan limits 
for single family homes from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, enhancing 
credit availability in the mortgage market.

While this legislation includes provisions intended to provide a 
short-term ''fix'' to many of the economic difficulties our economy is 
currently facing, I do not believe that it addresses the long-term 
needs of our Nation. While short-term response is critical, we must not 
neglect infrastructure, energy independence, and innovation needs, 
without which we will not be able to establish a vibrant U.S. economy. 
I look forward to working with House leadership, and with my fellow 
Members on both sides of the aisle, to look to the future, and to build 
innovative and long-term solutions to the underlying problems our 
economy faces.

Madam Speaker, this legislation is not perfect, but I believe it is 
an important step. I continue to advocate for a 90-day moratorium on 
home foreclosures to give financially troubled borrowers time to work 
with lenders and avoid losing their homes. I also believe we, together, 
must address the underlying infrastructure problems plaguing our 
economy. However, I do believe today's legislation will provide 
important benefits to millions of Americans, to the entire economy, and 
to our Nation as a whole. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of 
this legislation.