---
---

# EDUCATION JOBS AND MEDICAID ASSISTANCE ACT
## `6c5e4b6570cf9bdca40a3ce44200e142`
`Mr. DICKS — 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. DICKS. Madam Speaker, the Senate proposes rescissions totaling 
nearly $2.2 billion to Department of Defense programs in their 
amendment to the 2010 Supplemental Appropriation. These rescissions 
will not harm DoD programs and will not affect the conduct of 
continuing operations in Afghanistan or Iraq.

The Senate bill proposes rescissions in three categories.

First, in section 303, the Senate amendment proposes $1.6 billion in 
rescissions based on the Department of Defense accounting reports. 
These rescissions are a reflection of balances that would likely expire 
at the end of this fiscal year, or be reprogrammed for other efforts.

Second, in section 304, the Senate amendment proposes $382.5 million. 
Of this amount, $260.5 million is from funding appropriated in the 
American Reinvestment and Recovery Act for facilities sustainment, 
restoration and modernization. This funding is available for rescission 
based on contract savings. This section also rescinds $122 million of 
funding from Marine Corps procurement because the Marine Corps has not 
been able to spend this money.

Third, in section 305, the Senate amendment proposes $203 million. Of 
this amount, $116 million is derived from an Army procurement program, 
the Non Line of Sight Launch System (NLOS-LS), which the Department of 
Defense terminated earlier this year. This section also includes $87 
million of funding from Other Procurement, Army due to slower than 
planned spending rates in Army truck and communications programs.

The Senate amendment would not affect contingency operations in 
Afghanistan or Iraq. Those funds are provided separately to the 
Department of Defense, and are given special designation. None of the 
funds proposed for rescission are those designated for Overseas 
Contingency Operations.

The DoD budget is sufficient to shoulder part of the burden to 
provide financial relief recommended in this bill. I urge your support 
for this bill.