# OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `6c5e384a25171cb697928b4b6d72cec0`
`Mr. HUNTER — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend from Georgia for 
letting me come in and offer something that I did not see offered by 
the Democrat side in this debate, which was the Army's position on this 
continuing resolution.

In fact, they posited this continuing resolution as motherhood, apple 
pie and everything that we need for a strong national defense, and they 
invoked the interest of American veterans. What they did not tell 
American veterans was that the Army sees this as a real problem and a 
real cut in benefits, and things that would help the active Army come 
in this defense realignment, this base realignment with divisions 
coming back to the United States, divisions like the big red one coming 
back to Ft. Riley, Kansas, and lots of others and lots of quality-of-
life programs for the men and women of the armed services and for their 
families.

What we did not see coming from the Democrat side of the aisle was 
the fact that they reached over with one hand to give money to one 
group of servicemembers of veterans; they reached over and scooped 
money out of the cash register that would accrue to the benefit of 
another group, a very important people, and this is the men and women 
who wear the uniform of the United States.

So let me give you the Army's perspective as manifested in a letter 
from Lieutenant General David Melcher, United States Army, Military 
Deputy for Budget, Assistant Secretary of the Army, Financial 
Management and Comptroller. He says this:

''You recently requested a quick summary of Base Realignment and 
Closure impacts to the Army as proposed in the Joint Resolution, H.J. 
Res. 20.'' That is the resolution that the Democrat side of the aisle 
just passed. ''The attached information accurately portrays these 
impacts. The following identifies key Army concerns:

One, ''Army will not begin with approximately $2 billion of our BRAC 
program, which is a key enabler to grow and position the Army; this 
leaves more than half of our fiscal year 2007 BRAC program 
unexecutable.''

Number 2, ''Operational Impact on the Training, Mobilization and 
Deployment of Forces in support of the Global War on Terrorism.'' For 
some reason, the Democrat side of the aisle did not quite want to show 
that statement by the U.S. Army, that their bill that they passed, 
their continuing resolution, would, in fact, impact training, 
mobilization and deployment of forces in support of the global war on 
terrorism.

Number 3, ''Unravels the Army's synchronized stationing and BRAC 
plan, puts growth of the Army, stationing, and BRAC at risk.'' That 
means this: We are bringing back divisions from around the world. 
Places like Germany are now going to see movement in which American 
divisions are going to come back, and they are going to be repositioned 
in the United States. That means you got to go out and build barracks. 
You have got to go out and build single family housing. You have got to 
put a lot of construction in place. The Democrat majority reached out 
and took away part of that money.

Number 4, ''Delays transformation of Reserve Component, has 
operational consequences.'' We are involved in two shooting wars, and 
we have now done something that has operational consequences.

Number 5, ''Breaks the Nation's obligation to provide Soldiers and 
Families adequate quality of life, affects the All Volunteer Force,'' 
something we did not hear from the other side of the aisle.

Number 6, ''Delays capital investment and inhibits economic 
development, affects local jobs and growth across the U.S.'' Over 
80,000 jobs affected by what they just did.

And lastly, ''Limits predictability and military construction 
acquisition efficiencies, results in higher construction costs.''

So, as we see costs going through the roof, the contractors can say, 
yep, we were going to build that single family housing for those 
military families but you guys reached in, took a bunch of the money 
out; we had to give a stop work order to our crews, and now we are 
going to charge you, the American taxpayers, more money.

I have got another executive summary here that goes into more detail, 
and I thought it might just be good to give a few of the examples of 
this money that was cut by the Democrat majority, which they skipped 
over very quickly, and tell the American people a few details about 
these projects that they moved off the table with one push of the hand.

Training ranges, command and control, training barracks, 19 projects, 
$560 million, including training facilities at Fort Bliss, Texas; 
maneuver training at Fort Benning, Georgia; air defense artillery at 
Fort Sill; and battlefield trauma lab at Fort Sam Houston. In fact, I 
have been to the battlefield trauma lab. That is where we train our 
combat medics to save lives in the war fighting theaters in Afghanistan 
and Iraq.

Cannot start communications/electronics, RD&E, center phase one at 
APG, that is Aberdeen Proving Ground, to close Fort Monmouth and 
support the global war on terrorism.

Cannot start on human resources command at Fort Knox, Kentucky; 
recruiting facilities at Redstone Arsenal; power projection platform at 
Ft. Riley or other operational projects at Shaw Air Force Base, Benning 
and Leavenworth.

Armed Forces reserve centers, 27 projects, $700 million in 16 States.

Examples of fiscal year 2007 BRAC quality of life requirements, eight 
projects, youth and child development centers, Benning, Riley, Bliss, 
Sam Houston; dental clinics, Bliss, Sam Houston; medical clinic, Ft. 
Riley, Kansas. That is where the big red one is returning from Europe.

All fiscal year 2007 BRAC projects and follow-on MILCON are 
synchronized with modular force build, operational rotations, BRAC and 
GDPR.

What that means is that we are now trying to produce some 42 combat 
brigades, and we are trying to modularize them so they have the same 
equipment, they have got the same training, so that they are 
interchangeable so you can move out with a combat fighting force and 
you can move a brigade in from another area and you can have that from 
another particular division and that brigade is interchangeable. It 
does not have equipment that is noninteroperable, and it means you can 
fight more effectively and more consistently.



That modularity has been hampered by these cuts. So these are the 
cuts that were made by the Democrat majority, pushed off the table, 
projects pushed off the table with one push of


the hand and with barely a mention on the Democrat side.

So I would just say, my friend from Georgia, glad you got that sign 
up there, Official Truth Squad. You know, I think sometimes it is 
important to know the entire story. That is a part of the real story 
about what we did today.

I thank the gentleman for letting me come down and talk a little bit 
about the Army's position and the Army's position against the cuts that 
were manifested in this continuing resolution.

I thank the gentleman.