---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `6c681bc19b1e22af6033ba20272d6702`
`Mr. AKAKA — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation to 
create a program within the Department of Veterans Affairs for family 
caregivers. I am pleased to be joined by my colleagues Senator Burr, 
the Ranking Member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, Senator Tester, 
Senator Burns, and Senator Rockefeller, former Chairman of the 
Committee.

Some veterans returning from the recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
as well as previous conflicts, suffer from disabilities that prevent 
them from being fully independent. This is a sad fact of war. The 
legislation I am introducing today is designed to provide for several 
improvements in health care for veterans by supporting the family 
members who care for them.

The challenges faced by family caregivers are well known to us. We 
have been working on this issue for nearly two years. Provisions that 
then-Senator Clinton included in a health care omnibus bill reported by 
the Committee last Congress would have provided for pilot programs to 
serve caregivers. We have since learned much more about the role family 
members play in caring for injured veterans, and the needs of family 
caregivers. I think we are now beyond the scope of that original pilot 
program and I believe that a full-fledged permanent program is needed 
in VA.

First, it is well known that the involvement of family members in the 
provision of health care dramatically improves speed and success of 
recovery. This bill will give family members the resources needed to be 
involved in the care for their loved one. Second, many disabled 
veterans are not able to complete some tasks of daily living on their 
own, but do not require care in an institution. Allowing a veteran to 
remain in the home, while having family members meet the veteran's 
needs, will vastly improve quality of life for the veteran.

Caregivers, who are members of a veteran's family, often put their 
lives on hold in order to provide care for the injured or disabled 
veteran at home. In some instances, these caregivers are unable to 
maintain regular jobs because of the time consumed in providing 
sufficient care to the veteran. This has the compound effect of 
decreasing household income, and possibly preventing the caregiver from 
keeping health insurance. This legislation would help alleviate these 
problems so as to allow the caregiver to focus entirely on caring for 
the veteran.

This bill includes provisions for training and certifying family 
caregivers or personal care attendants. It would provide for mental 
health counseling, health care eligibility, a living stipend, and other 
critical services to support these caregivers. Additionally, this bill 
would make improvements to the services VA provides to family members 
who must travel to take the veteran to a VA facility to receive 
treatment.

I look forward to working with all of our colleagues to pass this 
much needed legislation. I especially thank Senators Burr and 
Rockefeller for cosponsoring this bill. I would also like to thank the 
dedicated members of the Wounded Warrior Project and Paralyzed Veterans 
of America for their tireless efforts in support of this legislation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.