---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6c6d72ed45d8630aaa1c1a0415b388a8`
`Mr. CASTLE — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the three amendments 
before us today to H.R. 2642. Our troops have done incredible work in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, and it is critical that we provide them with the 
protective equipment, operating funds, and counterterrorism resources 
necessary to execute their missions. For this reason, I support the 
funding in this package for vital priorities like mine resistant ambush 
protected vehicles, IED jamming devices, military healthcare, traumatic 
brain injury research, and military family support programs.

As a leader of the House Committee on Education, I have long 
advocated for a permanent expansion of GI Bill education benefits for 
veterans. For the first time, the funding in this package would reward 
those soldiers who stepped forward in the wake of the 2001 terrorist 
attacks by allowing them to receive expanded education benefits in 
proportion to their period of service. The men and women who serve in 
our Nation's armed forces deserve the opportunity to pursue an 
education and I believe this provision represents a significant step 
towards the realization of that goal. In addition to financial 
assistance, our government must help veterans cut through the red-tape 
surrounding GI bill benefits and I have introduced legislation to aid 
our soldiers in making this transition.

There has to be an incentive for the Iraqi government to make 
political progress and it is critical that we begin shifting the day-
to-day combat mission over to the Iraqi security forces. I continue to 
oppose proposals in Congress that would hamstring our troops by setting 
a hard deadline for troop withdrawal. Last September, General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker outlined a responsible plan for gradually 
redeploying our troops from Iraq and I believe this plan should move 
forward in a way that maintains security and stability in the Middle 
East. Therefore, I support provisions in this bill that would set a 
goal of redeploying a majority of our combat troops from Iraq by the 
end of 2009, while permitting forces to remain in the region to conduct 
counterterrorism operations and assist the Iraqi security forces. 
Clearly, our military and foreign policy leaders must retain the 
ability to react to conditions on the ground and I believe this 
provision allows them the appropriate flexibility in executing their 
mission without conditioning troop funding on arbitrary timelines or an 
immediate deadline for troop withdrawal.

Additionally, I support language in the bill that would improve 
transparency and oversight of contractors to prevent waste and abuse in 
government spending. In the same way, I support sections of the bill 
that would require better accountability from the Iraqi government by 
providing an incentive for a greater Iraqi investment in the country's 
reconstruction. Embracing a comprehensive regional diplomatic 
initiative, ensuring American soldiers are properly trained and 
prepared for deployments, and prohibiting torture are also key 
provisions which I continue to support.

Lastly, while I intend to vote in favor of this emergency spending 
package, I continue to have deep concerns about the manner in which it 
was brought forward. In my estimate, the leaders of the House have 
unfairly manipulated congressional rules in severely limiting debate on 
this measure and restricting input from both Republicans and Democrats. 
Rather than using this issue as a tool to score points politically, 
Members from both sides of the aisle should come together in support of 
a workable policy to bring our troops home.

To date, over 4,000 American soldiers--including sixteen brave 
Delawareans--have lost their lives in Iraq. Close to 500 U.S. service 
members have also died in Afghanistan. Mr. Speaker, I call on my 
colleagues to embrace the substantive areas of this bill where we can 
find agreement, and join me in committing to a bipartisan approach for 
achieving stability and bringing our troops home to their families.