---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `6c721299056014be6d1c0e70190c5fb2`
`Mr. LEVIN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I don't know if the unanimous consent 
agreement has been cleared yet, so I will proceed to debate both the 
McCain amendment but also the amendment I will be offering as though it 
is currently pending, because I do expect both amendments will be voted 
on at the same time.

First, to comment on the two statements that were just made by 
Senator McCain, one has to do with when did General Petraeus testify 
relative to the Iraq surge. This is a very critical point because 
indeed General Petreaus did testify relative to the Iraq surge, but he 
only testified after the decision was made relative to that surge by 
the President of the United States. The person who was the commander in 
Iraq at that time, while the deliberative process was underway in the 
White House as to whether a surge should take place, did not testify 
and was not asked to testify. There was no pressure placed on the 
President of the United States during those 3 months when he was 
deliberating on whether to surge troops into Iraq, to have his Iraq 
commander come up here and testify right in the middle of that 
deliberative process. There was no resolution, there was no request, 
there was no pressure being placed on the Bush White House to have his 
commander, who was then General Casey in Iraq, to come up and testify 
about whether additional troops should be sent to Iraq.

I have no doubt as to what the response would have been by President 
Bush and his folks: We are in the middle of a deliberative process--
which took about 3 months. Secretary Gates has testified to this. He 
has spoken about this 3-month deliberative process and we have gone 
back and checked. It was about a 3-month deliberative process that the 
President then was engaged in.

The first thing that happened was that President Bush announced this 
surge on January 10, 2007. Then and only then did Secretary Gates and 
General Pace, who was the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, testify before 
the Armed Services Committee. And then and only then did General 
Petreaus testify before the committee on January 23. The commander in 
Iraq during those critical months--September, October, November, 
December of 2006--was General Casey.

I think history records that he, as a matter of fact, opposed 
additional troops to go in to Iraq. But there was no effort made here 
to get General Casey to come before us and to testify as to why he was 
opposed to putting troops into Iraq at the same time that President 
Bush was considering whether to adopt a policy which would send 
additional troops into Iraq. We did not do that and we didn't do it for 
a good reason. We didn't think it was appropriate.

So my first comment has to do with whether the kind of policy that we 
adopted relative to the President of the United States when President 
Bush was President, and undergoing the same kind of deliberative 
process as to whether additional troops should be sent into a country--
very similar to what President Obama is undergoing right now--whether 
the commander there now should be put in a position which we did not 
put General Casey in? We know what the response of the Bush White House 
would have been. There was no doubt as to what the response would be. 
While the President of the United States is thinking through whether to 
surge troops into Iraq, his commanding general, General Casey, was not 
called before us. We did not have resolutions here saying call General 
Casey in. Those of us who opposed additional troops going into Iraq 
probably had an ally in General Casey, as history has written; in 
opposition to sending in additional troops.

But there was no effort to put pressure on President Bush by having 
his commander in the field come before us at a public hearing and say 
he was opposed to the very thing the President of the United States was 
considering.

The commander, General Casey, was not put in that position. No 
commander should be put in that position while the President is hearing 
from the commander as part of a deliberative process on the very 
critical issue of whether to send troops in.

So a request was made of me by a number of my colleagues to have a 
hearing at which General McChrystal would be called. My answer was: We 
should not do that at this time. There will be an appropriate time. 
There will be an appropriate time.

The appropriate time is the same time General Petraeus was called in 
and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs was called in, which was after the 
decision and not in the middle of that deliberative process.

So the White House is now undertaking a rigorous review of General 
McChrystal's assessment of the situation and approach in Afghanistan. 
By the way, before I go any further on this, I read the transcript of 
General McChrystal on ''60 Minutes.'' I have not seen the speech in 
London that my good friend, Senator McCain, made reference to, but I 
have read the ''60 Minutes'' transcript. There was no effort to obtain 
from General McChrystal what his advice was relative to the resource 
question, the troops question, which lies before the President.

I know what his response would have been had he been asked, which is, 
that is between him and the President. But the very purpose of the 
hearing which is the subject of the McCain amendment, the very purpose, 
is a hearing on the resources needed or recommended for Afghanistan. 
That is the very subject which is now under consideration by the 
President of the United States.

So we have now a President, with his security team, including General 
McChrystal, who I understand was on a TV monitor yesterday with his 
responses--we have a President of the United States undertaking a 
rigorous


review of General McChrystal's assessment. We have the assessment 
relative to the situation in Afghanistan that has already been provided 
and has now been made public.

What is now under consideration is whether there ought to be a change 
in strategy from the March strategy, given the problems that have 
occurred in Afghanistan since the election, and given the other changes 
that have taken place, including in neighboring Pakistan, which has an 
effect on Afghanistan.

According to General McChrystal himself, a policy debate is 
warranted. What he has said over and over again in his assessment is: 
Debate strategy before you debate resources. He said: Resources are 
going to be needed whatever the strategy is. That is General 
McChrystal's statement: There will be needed resources.

General McChrystal: ''Additional resources are required.'' This is 
his assessment. But it is the second half of his sentence which is 
ignored too often, particularly in the media. After he said additional 
resources are required, without specifying what they are, that is left 
to this document which is now in the hands of the President, he said:




 Additional resources are required. But focusing on force or 


 resource requirements misses the point entirely. The key 


 takeaway--


He said from his assessment, these are his words--



 is the urgent need for a significant change to our strategy 


 and the way that we think and operate.


Yet it is a hearing on resources that could come in the middle of a 
deliberative process. We are not sure whether by November 15 that 
deliberative process will be completed. I have every reason to believe 
it will be by November 15, but we do not know. So the McCain amendment 
has an arbitrary date, whether this deliberative process is completed 
by November 15 or not under this resolution--and I will be offering an 
alternative to this. Under this McCain resolution, he must come before 
appropriate committees before November 15.

That is an arbitrary date, whether the deliberative process of the 
President of the United States is completed or not. But it is on the 
very subject, on the very subject that is now under consideration by 
the President. That subject is resources, troops. But listen to what 
General McChrystal says. He said: Yes, there are going to be resources 
needed--without specifying what they are.

As far as we know, he has not, at least in the assessment that is 
unclassified. But then he says:




 New resources are not the crux. To succeed, ISAF requires a 


 new approach with a significant magnitude of change, in 


 addition to a proper level of resource.


So it is not the crux. He says strategy is the crux. But the McCain 
amendment says: We want to hear from McChrystal by a specific date, 
whether there has been a decision on the crux of the matter or not, 
which is the strategy. That is not me talking, that is General 
McChrystal who is saying: The crux of the matter is the strategy.

So now we have the White House--by the way, I am happy to interrupt 
my comments at any time if there is a unanimous consent agreement that 
has been reached. So if either the ranking member or Senator McCain 
knows whether we are in a situation--I would tell you so everybody can 
know what the proceedings are here, that at any time there is a 
unanimous consent agreement that can be offered, I would be happy to 
interrupt.