# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6c73eb0233ad03a4ec491a6849f2a5c9`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in strong opposition to H.R. 
4156, the so-called Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment 
Appropriations of 2008, because in fact, Mr. Speaker, the bill should 
be called the Disorderly and Irresponsible Iraq Redeployment 
Appropriations Act.

Let me be clear, Mr. Speaker. What we are debating tonight, disguised 
as a genuine bridge fund to sustain operations in the global war on 
terror, is nothing more than another defeatist measure intended to 
placate the Democrats' liberal base as we approach this Thanksgiving 
recess.

The Democratic leadership apparently has decided it's more to stand 
with the Out of Iraq Caucus, MoveOn.org and Code Pink than with our 
brave men and women in uniform. Rather than funding our soldiers' needs 
and delivering a decisive blow to the terrorist campaign in Iraq, the 
Democrats are again conditioning the funding on a date certain for 
withdrawal.

At a time of sustained progress by our forces, Mr. Speaker, it seems 
that what is great news for America and for our troops is consequently 
bad political news for a Democratic majority who has literally bet the 
farm on a defeatist agenda.

Just last weekend, Prime Minister Maliki stated that violence between 
Sunnis and Shias has nearly disappeared from Iraq, disappeared from 
Baghdad, with terrorist bombings down 77 percent.

The Washington Post reported that attacks against United States 
soldiers have fallen to levels not seen since the February 2006 bombing 
of the Shia shrine in Samarra. And an Investor's Business Daily article 
detailed that military analysts, including many who are opposed to the 
war, have concluded that the United States and its allies are on the 
verge of winning in Iraq. And, thankfully, United States casualties in 
Iraq are at their lowest level since March of 2006, Mr. Speaker. Now is 
not the time to risk impeding the progress we are making. Now is the 
time to continue building on the turnaround we have made, and to state 
unequivocally that we are on the verge of victory in Iraq and that we 
will finish the job.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot give in to the terrorists' extremist views and 
sinister plans for the Middle East and the world. And we certainly 
should not send a message to the terrorists that such a capitulation 
will begin in 30 days and will wrap up by December of 2008.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on tying funds for 
our troops to a date certain withdrawal from Iraq. I urge all my 
colleagues to vote ''no'' on this dangerous bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.R. 2156, the so-
called ''Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations of 
2008.'' Because, in fact, this bill is a ''disorderly and irresponsible 
Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act.''

Let me be very clear, Mr. Speaker. What we are debating today--
disguised as a genuine bridge fund to sustain operations in the Global 
War on Terror--is nothing more than another defeatist measure intended 
to placate the Democrat's liberal base as we approach the Thanksgiving 
recess.

The Democratic leadership has decided it is more important to stand 
with the ''Out of Iraq Caucus,'' MoveOn.org and Code Pink than with our 
brave men and women in uniform. Rather than funding our soldiers' needs 
and delivering a decisive blow to the terrorist campaign in Iraq, the 
Democrats are again conditioning the funding on a date-certain 
withdrawal.

At a time of sustained progress by our forces, Mr. Speaker, it seems 
that what is great news for America and for our troops is consequently 
bad political news for the Democrat majority and their defeatist 
agenda.

Mr. Speaker, a July New York Times editorial authored by Michael 
O'Hanlon and Kenneth Pollack stated ''We are finally getting somewhere 
in Iraq, at least in military terms. . . . The soldiers and marines 
told us they feel that they now have a superb commander in General 
David Petraeus; they are confident in his strategy, they see real 
results, and they feel now they have the numbers needed to make a real 
difference.''

In September, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker spoke 
optimistically about the future of Iraq citing concrete progress. 
Acknowledging we still had a long way to go, they recognized we had 
achieved tactical momentum and were building momentum toward local 
reconciliation. Indeed, local Iraqis were turning against extremists.

Last weekend Prime Minister al-Maliki stated that violence between 
Sunnis and Shi'ites has nearly disappeared from Baghdad, with terrorist 
bombings down 77 percent. The Washington Post reported that attacks 
against U.S. soldiers have fallen to levels not seen since before the 
February 2006 bombing of a Shi'ite shrine in Samarra. An Investor's 
Business Daily article detailed that military analysts--including many 
who are opposed to the war--have concluded that the U.S. and its allies 
are on the verge of winning in Iraq.



And thankfully, U.S. casualties in Iraq are at their lowest level 
since March 2006. Now is not the time to risk impeding the progress we 
are making. Now is the time to continue building on the turn-around we 
have made and to state unequivocally that we are on the verge of 
victory in Iraq, and that we will finish the job.

Mr. Speaker, let me remind my colleagues of the consequences of 
giving up on Iraq: the collapse of a democratic Iraqi government, 
likely leading to mass killings and genocide in the nation; an 
emboldened al-Qaeda; regional instability; Iran and Syria setting the 
course of Iraq's future; and Israel being pushed into the Mediterranean 
sea.

The stakes are too high for political posturing. Ayman al-Zawahiri 
has said ''the Jihad in Iraq requires several incremental goals. The 
first stage: expel the Americans from Iraq.''

Mr. Speaker, we cannot give in to their extremist views and sinister 
plans for the Middle East and the world. And we certainly should not 
send a message to the terrorists that such a capitulation will begin in 
30 days and will wrap up by December of 2008.

Mr. Speaker, never have I been so glad that we've got General 
Petraeus leading our troops in Iraq and not the Democratic leadership 
of this house. I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on tying funds for 
our troops to a date-certain withdrawal from Iraq. I urge all of my 
colleagues to vote ''no'' on this bill.