---
---

# COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `6c77c26f3b508bedb1ca7104dd264188`
`Mr. DINGELL — 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Chairman, today I rise in support of H.R. 4137, the 
College Opportunity and Affordability Act. As a proud father and 
grandfather, I know too well that the costs of a college education can 
be prohibitive. This legislation, in combination with the College Cost 
Reduction Act passed in September, makes great strides to reform our 
higher education system to increase access to all students and families 
who desire to attend college.

I know many of you have heard me talk about the tough times my great 
State of Michigan is facing. I know many of you have heard that 
Michigan has the highest unemployment rate in the Nation at 7.5 
percent, Michigan has one of the highest foreclosure rates, while at 
the same time our median household income has decreased by 11.9 percent 
and over 240,000 manufacturing jobs have left our State. These 
statistics are worth repeating because they emphasize the need and the 
importance for providing our future workforce with the tools they need 
to be successful.

One tool that is vitally important to many students is Federal aid; 
in fact, in past years almost 9 million students have received Federal 
aid. Yet the process to apply for Federal aid can be confusing and 
overwhelming for many students and their families. H.R. 4137 proposes 
to streamline the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, FAFSA, in 
order to make it easier for students to navigate. This will be done by 
reducing the number of questions on the FAFSA form and allowing 
applicants to save their information rather than re-filing a new form 
each year. It will also allow students and their families to determine 
their expected family contribution and their Federal student aid 
package prior to college so that families can plan accordingly.

H.R. 4137 will also demand more accountability from student loan 
lenders, ensuring that the best interests of our students come first. 
This legislation will do this by requiring higher education 
institutions and lenders to adopt strict codes of conduct and ban all 
gifts and revenue sharing agreements between institutions and lenders. 
Students will now also be provided with full and fair information about 
their loans before entering into loan agreements, as well as be 
informed by the lenders of all borrowing options available to them when 
taking out and repaying loans.

Another focus of this legislation is the need to address rising 
college prices so that more students and families will be able to 
attend college in the first place. We have seen in tuition at 4-year 
public colleges increase 30.5 percent since 1999 to $7,164 per year. 
That is an increase of $1,675 over 6 years. When families are making 
less, every increase makes it harder and harder for students to afford 
college.

To address this, H.R. 4137 will also establish an online net price 
calculator that will assist students and their families estimate the 
cost based on income and family situations at individual schools. This 
will allow families to be able to properly calculate what the cost of a 
4-year education will be. Families will now also have access to a list 
published by the Department of Education that will provide consumers 
with information on tuition and fees, average price after grant aid, 
recent price increases, and change in per-student spending.

I am also pleased that this legislation will increase college aid to 
our veterans and military personnel. Many college campuses have seen an 
increase in enrollment of veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan; however, 
some of these schools do not have enough resources to give the veterans 
the support they need. With over a million troops having served in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, it is our duty to ensure that when they return they 
have access to a college education. This legislation establishes a 
scholarship program that could award up to $5,000 for veterans, their 
spouses, or their children enrolled in college. It will also create 
support centers on college campuses designed to coordinate services and 
assist veterans with enrollment and completion of their degrees. More 
importantly, H.R. 4137 will ensure that veterans are not penalized by 
their financial contributions to their GI benefits in the financial aid 
process.

Mr. Chairman, I have heard over the years from my constituents, many 
from some of the great universities in my district, about the 
increasing amount of debt taken on to complete a college degree. Many 
have been forced to take out private loans, others have taken on 
additional hours at work, and unfortunately, some have had to take a 
leave of absence from school to pay the bills. This is a pattern that 
cannot continue. Education is not a luxury, it is a tool needed to 
succeed in today's economy. Investing in education and Federal aid 
programs is investing in our workforce and the success of our 
constituents. Today I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this 
legislation, reaffirming the commitment the Democratic Congress has 
made to improving higher education and strengthening our workforce.