---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `6c7eb210d77fd589f28e201cb8a5350b`
`Mr. SULLIVAN — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam Speaker, consistent with House Republican 
Leadership earmark standards, I am submitting the following earmark 
disclosures for publication in the Congressional Record.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--Making appropriations for the Department of 
Homeland Security for fiscal year ending September 30, 2008.

Account: Research, Development Test and Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: GWACS Defense, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4500 South 129th East Avenue, Tulsa OK. 
74163.

Description of Request: Provide an appropriations earmark of 
$2,000,000 for the Ground Warfare Acoustical Combat System of Netted 
Sensors. The entire project cost to complete is $19,200,000 with 
anticipated funding of $5,000,000 being raised privately by GWACS 
Defense, Inc. over the next two years. This request is consistent with 
the intended and authorized purpose of the Department of Defense, 
Research, Development Test and Evaluation, Navy account. The funding 
will be used by the Marine Corps Warfighting Lab to accelerate 
completion and purchase of a new small arms fire detection and location 
technology for force protection in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--Making appropriations for the Department of 
Homeland Security for fiscal year ending September 30, 2008.

Account: Research, Development Test and Evaluation, Navy.



Legal Name of Requesting Entity: The Advanced Composites Group, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 5350 S 129th E Avenue, Tulsa, OK, 
74134.

Description of Request: Provide an appropriations earmark of $800,000 
for the Lightweight Composite Structure Development for Aerospace 
Vehicles. The Advanced Composites Group, Tulsa is currently investing 
approximately $200,000 annually in R&D out of autoclave technology. 
This request is consistent with the intended and authorized purpose of 
the Department of Defense, Research, Development Test and Evaluation, 
Navy account. The funding will be used to develop composite structural 
prototypes for the CH-35K and other Navy designated aircraft.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638--Making appropriations for the Department of 
Homeland Security for fiscal year ending September 30, 2008.

Account: Research, Development Test and Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: L-3 Com Aeromet.

Address of Requesting Entity: 112 Beech Drive, Riverside Jones 
Airport, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74132.

Description of Request: Provide an appropriations earmark of $800,000 
for the Airborne Infrared Surveillance (AIRS) System. This funding will 
be provided to the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) for its use in 
developing AIRS. This request is consistent with the intended and 
authorized purpose of the Department of Defense, Research, Development 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide account. The funding will be used to 
develop a terrestrial based airborne infrared capability of medium 
range and long range missile threats to the United States and our 
allies.
