---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `6cb34958e0c3bea0c62537d77a13b8d7`
`Mr. DURBIN — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, what we are witnessing is not a crisis in 
security. It is a crisis in logic. How can the Republican leader stand 
here and argue how endangered America would be if we allowed this law 
to expire and then object to extending the law? How can the minority 
leader, Senator McConnell, stand here and argue that we should pass 
this legislation and then object when the majority leader asks for a 
conference committee?

This is not a crisis in security. It is a crisis in logic. This is a 
manufactured political crisis by the White House and the Republican 
leaders. If the Republican leader was so focused on giving this power 
to the President, he could have said, ''I do not object,'' when the 
majority leader asked for a 15-day extension.

But, no, they want a press release. They want something to put in 
front of the American people to take their minds off the state of our 
economy, to take their minds off the fact that we are just, 
unfortunately, a few lives away from losing 4,000 soldiers in this war 
in Iraq. They want to manufacture a security crisis.

The Senator from Kentucky should know--and I am sure he has able 
staff to alert him--the law, as it currently exists, the FISA law--even 
if we do not change it--gives ample authority to this President to 
continue to monitor the conversations of those who endanger the United 
States.

But, instead, as Senator Harry Reid has said repeatedly, this 
President is trying to make America afraid--make America afraid. I 
thought there was a great leader who said once: The only thing we have 
to fear is fear itself. It turns out that it is fear itself that is 
motivating this Republican leadership. If they would have provided 30 
votes yesterday in the House of Representatives, this law would have 
been extended. But they had their marching orders from the White House 
to vote no, and they did. So the attempt to extend it failed. If only 
30 Members on the Republican side in the House had stood up and voted 
to extend the law, it would have happened.

If the Republican minority leader, Senator McConnell, had not 
objected just moments ago to the unanimous consent request of Senator 
Reid, the Democratic leader, this law would have been extended.

It is obvious to those following the debate, the crisis is in the 
logic on the Republican side. You cannot have it both ways. You cannot 
complain that the law is going to expire, and then object to an 
extension. It does not work that way. Even at the University of 
Louisville, it does not work that way. Their philosophy department 
would tell you that does not track, it does not follow.

So I would urge the Senator from Kentucky, if you really are 
concerned about whether this law is extended, please reconsider your 
objection to extending this law, as Senator Reid has asked repeatedly. 
I think the American people know what is going on here. This is not 
about security. This is about political cover. This is about 
manufacturing a political argument and manufacturing a crisis--a crisis 
of the White House's own creation. The President and his party bear 
full responsibility if any intelligence gaps result.