---
---

# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `6cb7ece989cbf086fe75cc6b9709f760`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Thank you.

Like the Iraq war and the PATRIOT Act, this bill is fueled by fear 
and hinges on haste. So much is missing. There is:

No requirement that Wall Street pay a dime for the damage it caused 
or the cleanup cost; though a future President can request that 
Congress do what it declines to do today.

No meaningful limitation on outrageous executive pay; like the war, 
there is no shared sacrifice; only rewards for the greedy and more 
burdens for the needy.

No complete bar on American taxpayers having to bail out the Bank of 
China--and the entire world.

No guarantee taxpayers will not be overcharged for buying toxic debts 
that no one else wants.

No guarantee taxpayers get a fair share in future profits of those 
who are bailed out.

Yes, every one of these concerns receives cosmetic attention in this 
bill. Not even Avon or Mary Kay can compete with the cosmetics in this 
bill. It's 100 pages--much better indeed--but three pages of what 
Secretary Paulson would do and 97 pages of what Secretary Paulson could 
do, plus excuses for approving most of his three pages.



It aspires, but it seldom requires. All of us want to avoid further 
economic deterioration. Action or inaction today--that is a false 
choice. It is a matter of having never seriously considered any 
alternative in these negotiations to handing over $700 billion to the 
same Bush Administration that has done so much to create this crisis, 
so little to prevent it, and for whom the vultures have now come home 
to roost.

Congressman Lloyd Doggett's assertions about the shortcomings of the 
legislation are supported by the following citations to the bill:

(1) ''No requirement that Wall Street pay a dime.'' Section 134 
(After 5 years, the President need only submit a proposal, which he may 
or may not support, to Congress, which it may or may not approve, for 
recouping any shortfall from the financial industry.)

(2) ''No meaningful limitation on outrageous executive pay.'' See 
Section 111 (Providing limited and vague restrictions on executive 
compensation and golden parachute payments. Even these very modest 
provisions apply only during the period of the bailout or as long as 
the Treasury actually holds the company's debt or equity.)

(3) ''No bar on American taxpayers having to bailout the Bank of 
China.'' See Section 101(e) (Includes no prohibition on any American 
institution acquiring troubled assets owned by foreign institutions and 
reselling them to the Treasury.); Section 3(9) (Subsection (a) defines 
bailout-qualified ''troubled assets'' as mortgage-related securities 
created before March 14, 2008, but then subsection (b) then grants 
essentially unlimited authority for the Treasury Secretary to buy any 
asset he chooses; neither subsection applies a limitation regarding the 
date upon which the asset was acquired); see also Section 112 (In 
certain circumstances, foreign banks holding troubled assets may also 
sell these assets to the Treasury.)

(4) ''No guarantee that taxpayers will not be overcharged for buying 
toxic debts.'' See Section 101(e) (expresses concern about unjust 
enrichment while at the same time granting the Secretary of the 
Treasury unfettered discretion in purchasing troubled assets.)

(5) ''No guarantee that taxpayers really share in future profits of 
those bailed out.'' See Section 113(d) (The value of any stock warrants 
received for troubled assets is at the discretion of the same Treasury 
Secretary who has made clear he does not want the warrants.)