---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF DEA SPECIAL AGENT FORREST LEAMON OF  DALE CITY, VA
## `6cba4283addf64890e2fad4862ff0df7`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the lives of 
three local men, who recently died in a tragic helicopter crash while 
serving with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency in Afghanistan.

Their work was a critical part of recent U.S. efforts to disrupt drug 
trafficking that is believed to be funding Taliban insurgents in 
Afghanistan. These were the first DEA fatalities since the war began 
even though the agency has been operating in Afghanistan since 2005.

Special Agent Forrest Leamon was a resident of Woodbridge, Va., and 
had served in Afghanistan since 2007. Special Agent Chad Michael was a 
resident of Quantico, Va., and recently arrived in Afghanistan. Special 
Agent Michael Weston was a resident of Washington, D.C., and until 
recently served in the DEA's Richmond field office.

The crash also claimed the lives of seven U.S. service members.

During a memorial ceremony, Attorney General Eric Holder praised 
Special Agent Leamon as ''always willing to accept tough assignments. 
When the opportunity came to volunteer--to volunteer--to work in 
Afghanistan, the most dangerous assignment available, he stepped up 
again.''

Leamon was born in Ukiah, Calif., and would have celebrated his 38th 
birthday this Sunday. He is survived by his wife, Ana, and their soon-
to-be born child; his parents, Richard and Sue Leamon, of Fortuna, 
Calif.; two sisters; a niece and two nephews; his grandmother; as well 
as aunts, uncles and cousins.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring the lives 
and service of these brave men and extending our sympathies to their 
families.
