---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `6ccc6623dbc5912fe949c4f4a6ac7525`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I am grateful to the Senator from the 
State of Hawaii and the Senator from the State of Mississippi for their 
work on this very important bill. I also thank Senator Jack Reed from 
Rhode Island, Senator Lugar, and Senator Bayh for their support of this 
amendment, which instructs the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Department of State and USAID, to continue to support the 
integrated civilian-military training for all civilians deploying to 
Afghanistan, occurring once a month in Indiana at Camp Atterbury.

The civilian role in Afghanistan is absolutely critical to achieving 
the broader goals of counterinsurgency. As we discuss the way forward 
in Afghanistan, it is essential to remember that troop levels are only 
one part of that strategy.

In order to cultivate support among the population and implement an 
effective counterinsurgency, civilians from across government agencies 
must continue to partner and work in tandem with the military.

In May, I offered an amendment to the supplemental which aimed to 
ensure that civilians deploying to Afghanistan receive training that 
cultivates greater civilian-military unity of mission and which 
emphasized the importance of counterinsurgency and stability 
operations.

Prior to passage of this amendment, joint civil-military training was 
only occurring once every 9 months to coincide with scheduled military 
deployments. Since then, officials throughout the government--and 
especially the State Department--realized this was insufficient to meet 
the increased needs presented by the civilian surge in Afghanistan.

As such, the joint training schedule was increased to once a month, 
and Ambassadors Eikenberry and Holbrooke recently mandated that all 
civilians working in the field in Afghanistan must receive this 
training prior to deployment.

On Monday, I visited Camp Atterbury to observe and express my support 
for the training, to thank these brave men and women for their service, 
and to emphasize the key role of our civilians in Afghanistan.

Civilians from across the interagency process--including the 
Department of State, U.S. Agency for International Development, and the 
Department of Agriculture--have come together in Camp Atterbury for a 
1-week intensive course with the military, where they simulate real 
life experiences in Afghanistan.

This includes participating in vignettes with role players and the 
military to brainstorm ways to help their Afghan partners deliver 
essential services, security, and economic opportunity.

This essential skill set and level of familiarity with the military 
would take weeks to achieve once in theater. But the integrated 
training at Camp Atterbury allows our civilians heading to Afghanistan 
to hit the ground running.

Given the increased demand for this training, I am offering an 
amendment to ensure that training at Camp Atterbury continues to 
receive the support it needs in terms of military and civilian 
personnel, trainers, and other resources.

With a new mandate from Ambassadors Holbrooke and Eikenberry, the 
class size for this training has obviously increased. As we continue 
with the civilian surge, I hope the training at Camp Atterbury will 
receive a commensurate level of increased funding and support which it 
needs.

We owe it to our brave men and women in Afghanistan to get this 
right. It is critical to remember that our strategy in Afghanistan is 
not just about the troops; it is also about the civilians.

Just as we seek to ensure our troops headed to the field have the 
proper preparation and equipment, it is critical our civilians have the 
same level of training to ensure their effectiveness and security.

As the number of civilians in Afghanistan continues to grow--up to 
nearly 1,000 by the end of the year--our support for this mandatory 
training must also increase.

Integrated civilian-military training is a great example of steps 
being taken to improve our counterinsurgency strategy. In order to 
succeed in Afghanistan, civilians must successfully partner with the 
Afghans to help provide essential services, to promote economic 
development, and to improve systems of governance.

I am especially grateful to the Indiana National Guard. General 
Umbarger, adjutant general of the Indiana National Guard, and General 
Touley are so involved in this and doing such a wonderful job. They are 
to be commended. I also am grateful to the staff at Camp Atterbury and 
the broader training support team from the Departments of State, 
Defense, and USAID.

Most important, I am extremely grateful to the thousands of our brave 
men and women--civilian and military--who are serving in Afghanistan.

I believe this amendment is noncontroversial, and with support of the 
bill managers, I will be more than happy to adopt it by voice vote at 
the appropriate time.

I yield the floor.