---
---

# ECONOMIC STIMULUS
## `6ce5ff15f5e9dbaaaeba9bf02974ba36`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. The fact is, it is not something I enjoy doing, to talk 
about the difficulties. I would like to talk about the opportunities 
for this country. We will not get to the opportunities until we decide 
we are going to start taking care of some things here at home.

This President, in this past fiscal year, the one we are in right 
now, sent us a request for $196 billion of emergency money and said: I 
want it put on top of the debt. Don't pay for it. Add it to the debt. 
That is $16 billion a month, $4 billion a week for Iraq and 
Afghanistan, to replenish the military accounts for that purpose. Now 
we are told he is going to send another $70 billion on top of that. 
That takes us to close to three-quarters of a trillion that will have 
been spent, none of it paid for, all of it requested by this President 
as an emergency so it didn't have to be paid for. You look at that and 
you say to yourself: We have so much that needs doing, including not 
just on the budget side getting our act together but on the trade side, 
standing up for our country's interests, demanding fair trade, and, on 
the investment side, investing in infrastructure, all these things.

Last night it was almost as if the President was oblivious to the 
fundamental causes of the economic difficulty. This is a great economic 
engine we have, but the fact is, it needs some work. It doesn't need 
somebody to polish it with a rag and hum a nice tune. It needs real 
work to get this engine going again. The American people are 
innovative, great workers. It is an inspired country in which we live. 
That is why we have progressed the way we have over 200 years. But the 
American people need something to work with. We need to invest in 
working people. We need to have faith in working people. Instead what 
we have done is pulled the rug out from under working families.

I have used so many examples in the Senate, and my friend from Ohio 
knows all of them because a good number of them come from the State of 
Ohio, Huffy bicycles and Etch A Sketch and so many examples, all those 
jobs now in China that used to be in Ohio.

One of my favorites is to talk about Fig Newton cookies. The National 
Biscuit Company, NABISCO, took Fig Newton cookies from New Jersey to 
Mexico. Why? They could find somebody who would shovel fig paste 
apparently at a much lower cost than it cost to pay somebody to shovel 
fig paste in New Jersey. If you want to buy some Mexican food, buy Fig 
Newton cookies, made in Mexico, still called the National Biscuit 
Company, except it isn't so national anymore. Now they are made in 
Mexico.

That is one example of a hundred, a thousand, a million we could give 
and have. It is the question of whether this country is going to stand 
up for its workers and whether we are going to have the courage not 
just to stand up for workers in fair trade agreements but whether we 
are also going to put on track fiscal policy, trade policy, regulatory 
authority in a way that gives people confidence about the future of 
this economy and jobs and opportunity.