# CALLING CARD CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
## `6ce75ef29b47d99b96608a6831c50f78`
`Mr. ENGEL — 23 June 2010`

---


Mr. ENGEL. I thank the gentlewoman from California, my good friend, 
Congresswoman Matsui, and I thank the gentleman, Mr. Whitfield, for his 
kind remarks.

Madam Speaker, I stand here in support of my legislation, H.R. 3993, 
the Calling Card Consumer Protection Act.

I want to thank my good friends Chairman Waxman, who is the chairman 
of our Energy and Commerce Committee; Bobby Rush, who is the chairman 
of the Consumer Protection Subcommittee; as well as Joe Barton and 
George Radanovich, who are the ranking members of the full committee 
and subcommittee.

As my colleagues have mentioned, calling cards are an invaluable 
resource for a number of people who make frequent long distance or 
overseas calls. Students, members of the Armed Forces, and those whose 
families live outside of the country regularly use these cards to call 
home. The cards are also popular among people who either choose not to 
subscribe to long distance telephone services or who cannot afford 
them. They are a necessary tool for keeping in touch with


friends or with family members. Calling cards that provide the services 
that the companies advertise can save consumers a great deal of money 
when they call home.

Unfortunately, as my colleagues have mentioned, as we see all too 
often, a number of unscrupulous companies are failing to keep their 
advertised terms. I first learned of this issue about 3 years ago when 
I heard from a number of constituents who said that their prepaid 
calling cards were not delivering the number of minutes that they 
advertised. In fact, many were not even close to delivering the 
promised number of minutes.

When I heard about these problems, I purchased a calling card to 
investigate the problem for myself. What shocked me--although, it 
should come as no surprise to anybody now--is that I found the exact 
same problems my constituents were having. One of those companies 
promised me a certain number of minutes, and I found that it was a 
complete fabrication. I did not receive even close to the number of 
minutes that the card advertised. This is when I decided to introduce 
my legislation to ban this practice.

I have read studies conducted by States' attorneys general as well as 
by independent groups showing that many calling cards provide far fewer 
minutes than are advertised. One study by the Hispanic Institute found, 
on average, that the caller only received about 60 percent of the 
minutes guaranteed by the card. I recently read that the prepaid 
calling card industry takes in $4 billion a year in revenue. If the 
cards are only providing 60 percent of the minutes, each one of us can 
do the math.

This deception is costing consumers and honest companies hundreds of 
millions of dollars every year. Calling card fraud harms segments of 
the population which are among the most vulnerable to being victimized 
by unscrupulous companies only seeking to make quick profits. Companies 
will target poor, minority, and immigrant populations, and they don't 
stop there. They have even preyed upon our soldiers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. This is unconscionable.

As was mentioned, there are so many ways that they use fraudulent 
terms. There are different fees. If you call and don't get anyone home, 
there is a fee. If you call and someone hangs up, there is a fee. There 
are all kinds of hidden fees in terms of what time you can call and 
what day you can call. It just gets ridiculous.

In an article in BusinessWeek magazine, the author detailed one 
example of a company that marketed toward Spanish-speaking consumers. 
It had packaging with Spanish language information, but the fine print 
that detailed all the various fees they would charge the user was in 
English. When confronted about this deception, the company simply said, 
''We're in America.'' They had the audacity to claim that, even when 
they put Spanish language advertisements in markets with Spanish-
speaking consumers, they could hide all of their fees in English.

This legislation will put a stop to a number of deceptive practices 
employed by unscrupulous companies. It would simply require calling 
cards and advertisements to include the clear disclosure of all terms, 
conditions, and fees in the language in which the calling card is 
advertised. Just like the nutrition information on a box of cereal, 
consumers should be able to quickly and easily compare two products 
side by side.

I would strongly encourage all Members to support this bipartisan 
and, as Mr. Whitfield pointed out, well-thought-out legislation. I 
thank everyone for marking up this legislation today.