---
---

# FOR THE 350TH TIME . . . BRING OUR TROOPS HOME
## `6cec65f76a4ca9c7559e8e1cc7aeef99`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 14 April 2010`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, on April 20, 2004, I rose in this Chamber 
to say that we needed a new approach to national security. To say for 
the very first time before any other Member of Congress was brave 
enough to say it that it was time to bring our troops home from Iraq.



I have continued to speak out almost every night that the House is in 
session, but I never imagined that almost 6 years later I would be here 
to talk about Iraq and about Afghanistan for the 350th time. But that's 
what I'm doing today, and it's because our service men and women are 
still in harm's way in both Iraq and Afghanistan on missions that 
violate core American values and undermine American security.

We have come a long way in building a movement across this country 
that opposes these military conflicts, but still our leaders stubbornly 
cling to a disastrous policy.

What we're doing in Iraq and Afghanistan is disgraceful. It is a 
stain on our Nation. It will someday be remembered as a shameful 
episode in American history.

Seven years ago, Mr. Speaker, in fact it was 7 years ago this week, 
Baghdad fell. Remember? That was the moment when Iraqis were supposed 
to throw flowers and weep with gratitude that we had invaded their 
country.

But how did Iraqis recognize the sixth anniversary of their so-called 
liberation? With massive, colorful protests against the continued 
presence of American troops; protests that brought Shia and Sunni 
together; protests organized around the very idea that national unity 
against the U.S. occupation is stronger than Iraqi sectarian divides 
that are centuries old; protests that included the trampling of 
American flags; protests, in one case at least, that featured the 
burning in effigy of President Obama and Vice President Biden.

Meanwhile, one of the big developments out of Afghanistan this week 
is the death of several civilian bus passengers at the hands of 
American gunfire near Kandahar. This tragedy comes at the very moment 
and in the very region where U.S. forces are prepared to launch a major 
offensive. The push to defeat militants in Kandahar will require strong 
support from the civilian population, but instead, this incident has 
people taking to the streets shouting ''Death to America'' and ''Death 
to Infidels.''

Seven years in Iraq, 8/1/2/ years in Afghanistan, and we still 
haven't figured out that we can't win people's affection, loyalty, and 
trust by waging war on their country. To truly capture


their hearts and minds and also to defeat terrorism and make America 
safer, we need a smart security approach. That means empowering Iraqis 
and Afghans with civilian support and humanitarian aid, with programs 
to alleviate poverty, build schools, promote public health and so very 
much more.

The current approach is alienating the populations we're trying to 
win over and emboldening the very insurgents we're trying to destroy. 
How much longer will this go on?

There are American teenagers with no memory of their country not at 
war. We've already lost nearly 5,500 Americans to these conflicts. 
Thousands and thousands more have come home wounded, disabled, or 
suffering from the devastating effects of posttraumatic stress 
syndrome.

And as we all prepare to pay our taxes tomorrow, let's remember that 
every American is making a financial sacrifice for this folly. In just 
the time it's taken me to give this speech, we've racked up about $1 
million in costs for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

As long as this tragic and unnecessary war continues in both of these 
areas, I will continue to come to the floor of the House to state my 
firm opposition. I will not stop until our troops are brought safely 
home. I suppose I'll be giving my 351st speech tomorrow.
