# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `6cf0c3c6232dd526e144675817f2e2ba`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, simply put, I cannot vote for another 
$165 billion to give President Bush a blank check and fund the 
continuation of the war in Iraq, without condition, for over another 
year.

This is a difficult decision and not one I take lightly. But I 
believe that the time has come for Congress to exercise the power of 
the purse and bring this war to a conclusion.

I am a strong supporter of our troops in the field. They have done a 
tremendous job under difficult circumstances. They weren't greeted as 
liberators as Vice President Cheney said they would be.

Instead, they found themselves targets in an internecine battle, 
whose roots go back hundreds of years. They found themselves in the 
crossfire between Sunni insurgents and Shia extremists. They've done 
everything asked of them, with the courage and dedication that we 
expect from our service men and women.

But President Bush has never provided an exit strategy for Iraq. He 
has never laid out a plan for bringing our troops home.

So, here we are more than 5 years after this war began. More than 
4,000 troops killed. Tens of thousands injured. And no end in sight. 
$525 billion spent all designated as emergency spending and none of 
which is paid for simply added to our Nation's growing debt.

This is the first major war that has not been paid for, but instead 
has relied time and time again on emergency supplemental funds outside 
of the Federal budget.

I, along with many of my colleagues in the Senate, have voted again 
and again for a change of course to transition the mission. But the 
minority has obstructed the vote or President Bush has vetoed the bill 
each time we have tried.

So the power of the purse is the only tool we have to change the Iraq 
war. And it is time to bring this war to a conclusion after 5 long 
years.

The $165 billion supplemental funds the war for 1 year and 1 month, 
or until July 2009. This is all funded on the debt. I simply cannot 
agree to do it.

It would have been one thing if the supplemental had been to fund the 
war for an additional 6 months. But it is not. This means that the next 
administration essentially need not make any move or change until July 
2009. This is simply not acceptable to me.

To me, it is a big mistake to have a supplemental this big because it 
simply means ''business as usual.'' And I don't believe we can be 
''business as usual.''

On Tuesday, I questioned Secretary of Defense Robert Gates on the 
funding for this war. I told Secretary Gates that it is unclear to me 
why the passage of a $165 billion 2009 bridge fund is urgent at this 
time, particularly given that funding needs for next year are very much 
up in the air.

I told him that it is my understanding that if DOD transfers funding 
to the Army to meet its personnel and operational expenses, the Army 
could stretch its current funding quite far. And I asked how long the 
Army and Marine Corps could operate without the '09 bridge fund.



The Secretary said:




 ''The notion of having to borrow from the base budget in 


 '09 to pay war costs . . . we probably could make it work for 


 a number of months.'' And ''can we technically get thought 


 some part of fiscal year 2009 without a supplemental? 


 Probably so.''


So the other question that I have been grappling with is why should 
we provide 13 months of funding now? Where is the urgency to fund this 
war through July 2009? That is over a year away. It is simply not 
necessary to appropriate $165 billion for the Iraq war in a single day. 
This is almost twice the size of any previous supplemental the Senate 
has considered to date.

President Bush won't listen to the wishes of the majority of Congress 
and the American people. He has shown a complete unwillingness to 
evolve in the face of compelling evidence of the need for change.

After the fall elections, a new President will offer new ideas and 
policies, and at the top of the list should be a new plan for Iraq.

Congress should not, during this time of transition and great 
opportunity to seize the moment and change our war policy, allow the 
war to linger unaddressed for up to 7 months of the new administration.

Congress should not relinquish its constitutional right and 
obligation to use the power of the purse to require the next President 
to present a plan for Iraq one that includes the funding he or she will 
need to put that plan in motion.

So now, we are faced with another choice: Do we provide $100 billion 
through the end of this year and an additional $66 billion to take us 
through July 2009? Do we give the next President a pass and affirm that 
he or she does not have to change the mission or plan an exit strategy 
until the middle of next year?

I cannot support this.

Passing a year-long supplemental is an abandonment of the power of 
the purse, the greatest power that the Congress has. I believe that the 
time has come for the Senate to assert its will, and another year and a 
month of funding for this war is not the answer.