# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `6cf90200e59a5ee3d4d9f73f74147f6e`
`Mrs. McCARTHY of New York â€” 6 March 2008`

---


Mrs. McCARTHY of New York. I want to thank, again, my colleague Mr. 
English from Pennsylvania for this amendment. This would require the 
Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community 
Service to coordinate with veterans organizations serving veterans to 
provide opportunities for young people to enroll in existing NACS 
programs to serve as drivers in the DAV transportation network on a 
full-time, part-time, or as-needed basis. The reason we support this 
amendment, which is similar to Mr. McKeon's in a way, is that it will 
help serve our Nation's veterans. This amendment reminds us of the 
challenges faced by disabled veterans after they have devoutly served 
our Nation.

When I see a lot of my veterans back home in Long Island, a lot of 
them do volunteer their time on driving our veterans back and forth. We 
only have one veterans hospital on Long Island. A lot of these drivers 
are as old as


those they are driving. So to see that our young people, and I can see 
something like this, which would be terrific for our young college 
students and our seniors that are driving, to be able to be part of 
this.

It was earlier mentioned by Mr. Shays that with the war in Iraq, no 
one has asked Americans to be helpful. Well, this is a perfect time. 
This is where our young people can feel that all right, here we have 
our veterans that have done a gallant job on protecting this Nation. 
Help them now. Let us help them to get back and forth for their 
physical therapy or any treatments that they need.

It's also a wonderful opportunity for our young people to get to know 
our seniors and our veterans that have served this country. The more I 
think about this, I am sorry that we didn't think of this amendment 
while we were having our committee hearings. I think next time I will 
reach out to my colleague and say what ideas do you have so we can 
bring them to the committee.

So, again, I support this amendment. I think it's a terrific 
amendment. I think it's a wonderful time for our young people and our 
seniors and our veterans to get to know each other. They will actually 
find they have a lot more in common than they do have apart.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.