# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `6cfa562e7e5dbb6eb93826906c6e91ba`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, any American I know should be, and is, 
vitally interested in what is happening in Iraq and what our policy 
should be. There is no doubt that good people can disagree about how we 
should handle this important and difficult situation. Nobody's 
patriotism should be questioned in this process. But I would urge that 
these disagreements that might be expressed be expressed in ways that 
minimize the negative impact on what may be, and will be the decided 
policy of the United States. In other words, we need to be sure that as 
we conduct this debate--we have a policy in this country, and we need 
to make sure that we execute it in a way that most likely will provide 
us a method of success.

Let me recap the history of how we got here because I think it is 
important. By more than a three-fourths vote, 77 Senators in this body 
authorized the use of military force in Iraq. The initial invasion and 
removal of Saddam Hussein went well, surprisingly well--better than 
most would ever have expected. But the postinvasion situation has been 
much more difficult than expected. My personal view, for what it is 
worth--and it


may not be worth much--is that we underestimated the difficulties of 
establishing a functioning democracy in an undeveloped nation that had 
deep sectarian divides, that had no history of law or democracy, and 
that had been traumatized by years of oppression in a war. So we can 
look back and say there are a lot of mistakes out there that have been 
made, but I think the real problem is we are facing a difficult job 
that is not going to be easy, and no one should underestimate the 
challenge.

But we must honestly evaluate our current position and use this time 
in this Congress right now to decide what we are going to do. I know 
good people will disagree, but we will reach a decision before this 
debate is out. So we owe nothing less to those fabulous men and women 
who serve us in Iraq than to give this our best judgment, our hardest 
work, our most sincere consideration. There can be no doubt but that 
this is the correct time for a national evaluation.

Remember how we got here. In May--May 24 of this year--in a 
bipartisan vote, we voted to clearly affirm the surge; 80 to 14 was 
what that vote was. We debated the question. We knew General Petraeus 
was there. The President asked that we fund 30,000 additional troops as 
part of this surge, and we decided to do so. We voted for it. This 
Congress said we will execute that surge. I remember Senator Reid and 
Speaker Pelosi meeting with the President and working on the deal, and 
we agreed to do the surge 80 to 14 on final vote. So it is really not 
President Bush's surge or General Petraeus's surge, it was and is 
America's surge, and our troops are carrying out America's policies. I 
hope our colleagues here won't be adopting the reasoning of MoveOn.Org 
instead of recognizing the responsibilities that we all have to those 
we have sent into harm's way.

Now, no one in May was sure how things would work out. Things had not 
gone well in 2006 and in early 2007. All of us were worried about what 
was happening. Violence had increased, the uncertainty had increased, 
and I think Congress rightly was concerned. After debate, we decided to 
execute the surge operation which was more than just increased troops, 
and I will talk about that in a minute. We decided that, for the 
purpose of openness and accountability, as part of the funding of this 
war that we had appropriated, we wanted some reports. In fact, we asked 
for five separate reports. Those reports have been produced as 
required. A report was required on the status of 18 benchmarks 
submitted by July 15. A report was required for an 
independent commission of experts to report not later than September 1 
analyzing the progress of the Iraqi security forces. That was the 
General Jones commission, former supreme allied commander in Europe, 
former commander of the United States Marine Corps, and 20 other 
experts compiled that report. A report from the GAO, the comptroller 
general, on whether the 18 benchmarks had been achieved by September 1; 
a followup on the benchmarks report submitted by September 15. Then 
public testimony was required from the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq and the 
commander of Multi-National Forces Iraq, General Petraeus, not later 
than September 15.


We have had all of that in the Armed Services Committee, of which I 
am a member. We had Mr. Walker from GAO give the GAO report. We had 
General Jones and his commission give their report, and we had General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker give their reports. They testified 
before the House. They testified before other committees. We have had 
now a national discussion about this situation, and it is time for us 
to begin to make some decisions. So what I hope we will do is make a 
decision, and we will stick by it, and next week we would not have 
leaders in this body saying it is a failure before it ever gets 
started, as we have had in the past.

Let me summarize the reports that came in briefly. The administration 
report on benchmarks, as well as a GAO report, shows that we had some 
progress on some matters but that there had been limited political 
progress in Iraq. I would note that the GAO report, which was valuable 
and I think not inaccurate but could be misinterpreted, was important. 
It did not, however, incorporate data from August and early September 
from Iraq. That data shows remarkable progress in those recent weeks, 
and it was not part of its report. So the progress on the military 
front that they reported was not as significant as the later reports 
would show. It only measured whether the goals of each one of the 
benchmarks were fully achieved. It didn't measure whether progress had 
been made.

Ambassador Crocker, on the benchmarks, made some important comments. 
Those I would point out to my colleagues. One, he said, yes, an oil law 
had not been passed by the Iraqi Parliament. They couldn't get together 
on that. Sometimes we can't get together in this body and agree on 
things. So what happened is, they are indeed sharing oil revenue 
throughout the provinces in a fair and just way, although they have not 
yet been able to pass an overall oil law. So we are saying, according 
to benchmarks, they haven't met the benchmarks because the benchmarks 
said they must pass an oil law that would share their resources. But, 
in fact, they are sharing.

He talked about a benchmark dealing with reconciliation with former 
members of the Baathist Party and the Saddam Hussein regime. He said, 
no, they had not been able to pass in the parliament the legislation 
that would effectuate, as we would like to see it, a reconciliation 
among the former Baathists and the current leadership in Iraq, but it 
was happening out there. He said in various different places throughout 
Iraq former members of Baathist activities are coming into the 
government, Sunnis who allied with al-Qaida are coming in and working 
with the American military, and at the grassroots level real progress 
is being made and reconciliation is occurring in a lot of different 
places in Iraq.

Now, the Jones commission was a very valuable commission. General 
Jones is a very distinguished, 40-year veteran of the U.S. Marine 
Corps, former commandant. He served as supreme allied commander of 
Europe and commander of USOCOM. This bipartisan commission he headed 
was composed of 20 members representing senior military leaders, 
civilian officials, former chiefs of police, former DC Police Chief 
Charles Ramsey, former TRADOC Commander General John Abrams, and Mr. 
John Hamre, former Under Secretary of Defense in the Clinton 
administration, a respected voice on defense matters. Between them, the 
commissioners had more than 500 years of collective military experience 
and more than 150 years of police experience.

The Commission reported strong progress within the Iraqi Army but 
much weaker progress among the national police--in fact, unacceptable 
activity within the police. They called for massive reform and 
restructuring of the Iraqi police forces.

I asked General Jones and his colleagues in this fashion--I told him 
that before General Petraeus went to Iraq to take over the effort 
there, he told us he would define the challenge as being ''difficult, 
but not impossible.'' So I asked General Jones:




 What are our realistic prospects for a long-term situation 


 in which there is some stability and a functioning government 


 that is not threatening to the United States?


This is what General Jones said:




 Senator, I think that General Petraeus's words were 


 correct. I think it is a difficult situation that is 


 multifaceted. It is about bringing about in Iraq not only 


 safe and secure conditions, but a completely different method 


 of government, jump-starting an economy, rule of law. The 


 whole aspect of transition is just enormously complex.


He added this:




 And regardless of how we got there, we are where we are. It 


 is, strategically, enormously important not only nationally, 


 but regionally and globally, for this to come out and be seen 


 as a success. And our report, I think, not only unanimous but 


 very hard-hitting in certain areas, intentionally makes the 


 point that there are some good things happening and that we 


 are all excited to see that. That is certainly encouraging, 


 but there is more work that needs to be done. We wanted to be 


 very specific about where we think that work should be done. 


 It doesn't mean it can't be done.


They call for a massive overhaul of the Iraqi police. He said it is 
difficult and it needs to be done. More progress needs to be made, but 
it is not impossible. So I followed up with that. I said:




 Did any of your commission members, or any significant 


 number of them, conclude that this could not work, that this 


 was a failed effort, or that we ought to just figure




 a way to get out of there regardless of the consequences?


Here is General Jones's answer:




 I don't believe that there is a commissioner that feels 


 that way. But let me just take a poll right now.


He turned around and surveyed the Commissioners, and they all agreed 
with General Jones.

Then General Petraeus and Ambassador Corker came before us last week 
to give their report, which detailed progress on a number of different 
levels. General Petraeus is one of our most distinguished officers in 
the Armed Forces. He graduated as an academically ''distinguished 
cadet'' from West Point. He was the General George C. Marshall Award 
winner as the top graduate of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff 
College, class of 1983. He also has a master's and a Ph.D. from 
Princeton, and he served as a professor at West Point. He is on his 
third tour in Iraq.

I know a lot of people in this body think they have figured out how 
to deal with Iraq. He spent 2 full years there and now over a half a 
year again in Iraq dealing with these circumstances. He is a very 
capable person, as anyone can well see.

Well, I have been to Iraq six times. On the first trip, I met General 
Petraeus. He commanded the 101st Airborne in Mosul. They were achieving 
some fine success and reconciliation. They were able to catch Saddam's 
sons, Uday and Qusay. He worked with Alabama engineering National Guard 
units impressively, in my opinion, to bring them on line in an 
effective way. I was impressed in my meeting with him.

The next year, he came home, and then they asked him to go back to 
train the Iraqi Army. He went back and took charge of that operation 
and spent a year doing that in Iraq, meeting people in Baghdad and 
getting a real feel for that country. Then he came home.

When he got home, he wrote the counterinsurgency manual for the U.S. 
Department of Defense, which details the principles and tactics that 
can work to defeat an insurgency. In fact, insurgencies can be defeated 
if you have a sustained and intelligent policy that is well led. So he 
wrote that manual, and President Bush met with him and decided to send 
him back a third time in January, and he asked him to lead this effort. 
He has been doing so with integrity, skill, and effectiveness. As a 
matter of fact, one commentator said even in the early months you could 
feel that there was a new atmosphere and a new strategic vision and new 
leadership. It was filtering down throughout the system.

So to have a group like MoveOn.org suggest--not suggest but call him 
a traitor and a liar, that is despicable. I cannot imagine anybody who 
would not condemn such a statement. This is a patriot of the highest 
order. We have asked him to go into harm's way for the third time to 
serve the national interests of the United States, not serve President 
Bush--to serve this Congress, by a 80-to-14 vote in May.

So I am telling you that we need to get serious. We sent him there by 
a unanimous vote, confirmed him to be commander, and we voted to fund 
the operation, fund the surge. That wasn't President Bush who put up 
the money; we put it up. We asked him to come back and give us a report 
on how well it is going. We asked an independent commission to give us 
another report. We asked the GAO to give us a report. We have gotten 
those reports, and it is now time for this Congress to make some 
decisions. It is just that serious. This is a very important matter for 
the United States. It is important for us.

You tell me about the morale of the military. People say the morale 
of the military is not well. They are doing beyond anything I could 
expect. Reenlistments remain very high. I have to be amazed at that, 
and I know others are. We have a good reenlistment rate, and we are 
able to retain people and bring people into the military. They are 
going to Iraq and serving ably. As a matter of fact, in a moment, I 
will share a report from some of our Alabama people who came by to see 
me and what they had to say about their tour there. So we have done 
this, and we are now at a point where we have to make some decisions.


I have been asked: Well, has the situation changed since General 
Petraeus has made his report? I think it has, mainly because of what he 
said, not how he said it. I asked him back in January at his 
confirmation hearing would he always be truthful with the Congress and 
the American people about the status of this war and would he tell us 
if he didn't think he could be successful. He said that he would.

I asked him at this hearing: General Petraeus, when you came before 
us in January, before you went to Iraq, you had previously told me that 
no matter what happened, you would tell the Congress the truth. He told 
me that in private the night before. So the next morning, I asked him: 
Will you tell the truth to the American people? He committed that he 
would. So at this hearing last week, I asked him:




 Have you, to the best of your ability, told this Congress 


 the truth about the situation in Iraq today?


He said:




 I have, yes, sir.


You can call him a liar if you want to. I don't. I believe he gave us 
the truth as he had the ability to give it to us.

I asked him further:




 General Petraeus, in your opinion, is there a circumstance 


 in which--in your opinion, is this effort in Iraq such that 


 we cannot be successful, that we would be putting more effort 


 in a losing cause if we continue it, or, in your opinion, do 


 we have a realistic chance to be successful in this very 


 important endeavor?


He replied:




 Sir, I believe we have a realistic chance of achieving our 


 objectives in Iraq.


So we received the reports and the information. What did some of that 
information tell us? I cannot tell my colleagues or the American people 
that this will continue, but, remarkably, violence in Baghdad is down 
dramatically. Remember, it was the President and everybody who 
acknowledged that if the large capital city could not be stable and was 
sinking into violence, there is no way we could have a peaceful 
settlement in Iraq and reconciliation and make progress. We had to 
reduce violence in Iraq. The report General Petraeus gave us and the 
charts he produced showed that civilian deaths in Iraq, in Baghdad, 
were down 70 percent. In his report, he declared that civilian deaths 
throughout the nation of Iraq were down 55 percent. Now, that is really 
big. Remember, the surge didn't reach full strength until June or July. 
He has only had the full surge in place for a month or two. So this is 
really big.