# None
## `6d05c962ae9f8c406566cac4944c2e94`
`Mr. GINGREY — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 326 
which commemorates the 25th anniversary of the dedication of the 
Vietnam Veterans Memorial.

The idea of the memorial began in 1977 as a way to make amends for 
the indifference that had met Vietnam veterans who returned home to 
this country. It was also conceived as a place of honor for the brave 
young men and women who served and died in the Vietnam war including, 
Mr. Speaker, my Pony League baseball teammate, Dick Ulmer, and to give 
the estimated 43 million Americans, parents, brothers, sisters, wives, 
husbands and children, and yes, including those of 1st Lieutenant Ulmer 
of North Augusta, South Carolina, so directly affected by the losses in 
Vietnam a place to remember, to mourn, to reflect, and hopefully to 
heal.

Five years later, in 1982, ground was broken for the memorial and the 
first panel of the Wall, as the memorial is called today, was unveiled. 
Since that time, the Wall has become not only the most visited memorial 
on the National Mall with more than 4 million visitors annually, but 
also a very powerful and a moving place for recollection, solace and 
comfort for Vietnam veterans and their families.

As a place to honor the more than 58,200 servicemembers who died 
during the Vietnam war, and that number is just astounding as we think 
about the current situation in Iraq; and, of course, we mourn each and 
every one of those 3,600 lives that have been lost over a 4-year period 
of time. But Vietnam, 58,200 servicemembers died. The Wall has also 
become a national symbol of healing and coming together.

In short, the Wall has achieved a purpose and effect well beyond the 
original purpose, and no one who goes there can escape the emotional, 
deep impact that it conveys.

Mr. Speaker, it is entirely proper and fitting to commemorate the 
Wall's 25th anniversary. It honors the selfless sacrifice of not only 
those who died, but also the service of more than 3 million Americans 
who served in the Armed Forces in Southeast Asia. And beyond that, the 
Vietnam Veterans Memorial has helped this Nation reunite after one of 
the most divisive times in this Nation's history. For these reasons and 
many more, I urge all Members to support this resolution. I look for a 
unanimous vote.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.