---
---

# IRAQ POLICY
## `6d0aa8f63c9152b065526aba282f0d2b`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Madam Speaker, I believe that Congress should continue 
to encourage an open and robust debate about its Iraq policy. I found 
former Speaker Newt Gingrich's recent testimony before the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee on the situation in Iraq of particular 
interest. I would like to share it with my colleagues.







 [From Gingrich Communications, Jan. 23, 2007]




 The Cost of Defeat in Iraq and the Cost of Victory in Iraq








Testimony to Senate Foreign Relations Committee














 (By Newt Gingrich)




 Chairman Biden, Ranking Member Lugar, and members of the 


 committee: Thank you for allowing me to testify.



 This is an extraordinarily important series of hearings on 


 a topic of enormous national importance.



 The United States finds itself in a global struggle with 


 the forces of Islamic fascism and their dictatorial allies.



 From a fanatic American near Chicago who attempted to buy 


 hand grenades to launch a personal Jihad in a Christmas mall, 


 to 18 Canadians arrested for terrorist plots, to the Scotland 


 Yard disruption of a plot in Britain to destroy ten civilian 


 airliners in one day that if successful would have shattered 


 worldwide confidence in commercial aviation and potentially 


 thrown the world into a deep economic contraction.



 We are confronted again and again with a worldwide effort 


 to undermine and defeat the system of law and order which has 


 created more prosperity and more freedom for more people than 


 any previous system.



 The threats seem to come in four different forms:



 First, from individuals who are often self recruited and 


 randomly inspired through the internet, television and 


 charismatic social and religious friendships.



 Second, from organized non state systems of terror of which 


 Al Qaeda, Hezbollah and Hamas are the most famous. Additional 


 groups have sprung up and provide continuity, training, and 


 support for terrorism.



 Third, from dictatorships in the Middle East most notably 


 Iran and Syria who have been consistently singled out by the 


 State Department (including in 2006) as the largest funders 


 of state supported terrorism in the world. These 


 dictatorships are investing in more advanced conventional 


 weapons and in chemical and nuclear weapons.



 Fourth, from a strange assortment of anti-American 


 dictatorships including North Korea, Venezuela and Cuba.



 This coalition of the enemies of freedom has growing power 


 around the world. Its leaders are increasingly bold in their 


 explicit hostility to the United States.



 To take just two recent examples: Ahmadinejad of Iran has 


 said ''[t]o those who doubt, to those who ask is it possible, 


 or those who do not believe, I say accomplishment of a world 


 without America and Israel is both possible and feasible.'' 


 He has also said that Israel should be ''wiped off the map.'' 


 Chavez of Venezuela, just last week in a joint appearance 


 with the Iranian leader in Latin America, announced a multi 


 billion dollar fund to help countries willing to fight to end 


 ''American imperialism.''



 Both of these statements were on television and are not 


 subject to misinterpretation.



 Similarly there are many web pages and other public 


 statements in which various terrorists have described in 


 great detail their commitment to killing millions of 


 Americans. I described these publicly delivered threats in a 


 speech on the fifth anniversary of 9/11 which I gave at the 


 American Enterprise Institute. The text of this speech is 


 attached as an appendix to this testimony.



 These threats might be ignored if it were not for the 


 consistent efforts to acquire nuclear and biological weapons 


 by these enemies of freedom





 I first wrote about the extraordinary increase in the 


 threat to our civilization from nuclear weapons in the hands 


 of terrorists in Window of Opportunity in 1984. Attached to 


 this testimony is a copy of the relevant pages from this 


 book.



 It is not accurate to suggest today that people were not 


 aware of terrorism or were not warning about the threat to 


 America's very survival prior to 9/11.



 Many sophisticated observers and professional military and 


 intelligence officers have been issuing these warnings for 


 two decades.



 What has been amazing to watch has been the absolute 


 inability of our system of government to analyze the problem 


 and react effectively.



 It is this collapse of capacity for effectiveness which is 


 at the heart of our current dilemma.



 The United States is now in a decaying mess in Afghanistan 


 and an obviously unacceptable mess in Iraq.



 While this language may seem harsh to defenders of the 


 current policy, it is sadly an accurate statement of where we 


 are.



 Efforts to think through and solve the problems of 


 Afghanistan and Iraq have to be undertaken in a context of 


 looking at a wider range of challenges to American leadership 


 around the world and potentially to our very survival as a 


 country. These larger challenges are described in my attached 


 presentation entitled ''The Real World and The Real War''.



 With these caveats I want to focus on the challenge of 


 Iraq.











Two Very Hard Paths Forward in Iraq




 America is faced with two very hard paths forward in Iraq.



 We can accept defeat and try to rebuild our position in the 


 region while accommodating the painful possibility that these 


 enemies of freedom in Iraq--evil men, vicious murderers, and 


 sadistic inflictors of atrocities will have defeated both the 


 millions of Iraqis who voted for legal self government and 


 the American people and their government.



 Alternatively we can insist on defeating the enemies of 


 America and the enemies of the Iraqi people and can develop 


 the strategies and the implementation mechanisms necessary to 


 force victory despite the incompetence of the Iraqi 


 government, the unreliability of Iraqi leaders, and the 


 interference of Syria and Iran on behalf of our enemies.



 Both these paths are hard. Both involve great risk. Both 


 have unknowable difficulties and will produce surprise 


 events.



 Both will be complicated.



 Yet either is preferable to continuing to accept an 


 ineffective American implementation system while relying on 


 the hope that the Iraqi system can be made to work in the 


 next six months.








 The Inherent Confusion in the Current Strategy




 There are three fundamental weaknesses in the current 


 strategy.



 First, the strategy relies on the Iraqis somehow magically 


 improving their performance in a very short time period. Yet 


 the argument for staying in Iraq is that it is a vital 


 AMERICAN interest. If we are seeking victory in Iraq because 


 it is vital to America then we need a strategy which will win 


 even if our Iraqi allies are inadequate. We did not rely on 


 the Free French to defeat Nazi Germany. We did not rely on 


 the South Koreans to stop North Korea and China during the 


 Korean War. When it mattered to American vital interests we 


 accepted all the help we could get but we made sure we had 


 enough strength to win on our own if need be.



 President Bush has asserted that Iraq is a vital American 


 interest. In January 2007 alone he has said the following 


 things:



 But if we do not succeed in Iraq, we will leave behind a 


 Middle East which will endanger America in the future.



 [F]ailure in one part of the world could lead to disaster 


 here at home. It's important for our citizens to understand 


 that as tempting as it might be, to understand the 


 consequences of leaving before the job is done, radical 


 Islamic extremists would grow in strength. They would be 


 emboldened. It would make it easier to recruit for their 


 cause. They would be in a position to do that which they have 


 said they want to do, which is to topple moderate 


 governments, to spread their radical vision across an 


 important region of the world.



 If we were to leave before the job is done, if we were to 


 fail in Iraq, Iran would be emboldened in its pursuit of 


 nuclear weapons. Our enemies would have safe havens from 


 which to launch attacks. People would look back at this 


 moment in history and say, what happened to them in America? 


 How come they couldn't see the threats to a future 


 generation?



 The consequences of failure are clear: Radical Islamic 


 extremists would grow in strength and gain new recruits. They 


 would be in a better position to topple moderate governments, 


 create chaos in the region, and use oil revenues to fund 


 their ambitions. Iran would be emboldened in its pursuit of 


 nuclear weapons. Our enemies would have a safe haven from 


 which to plan and launch attacks on the American people. On 


 September the 11th, 2001, we saw what a refuge for extremists 


 on the other side of the world could bring to the streets of 


 our own cities. For the safety of our people, America must 


 succeed in Iraq.



 Iraq is a central component of defeating the extremists who 


 want to establish safe haven in the Middle East, extremists 


 who would use their safe haven from which to attack the 


 United States, extremists and radicals who have stated that 


 they want to topple moderate governments in order to be able 


 to achieve assets necessary to effect their dream of 


 spreading their totalitarian ideology as far and wide as 


 possible.



 This is really the calling of our time, that is, to defeat 


 these extremists and radicals, and Iraq is a component part, 


 an important part of laying the foundation for peace.



 The inherent contradiction in the administration strategy 


 is simple. If Iraq matters as much as the President says it 


 does (and here I agree with the President on the supreme 


 importance of victory) then the United States must not design 


 and rely on a strategy which relies on the Iraqis to win.



 On the other hand if the war is so unimportant that the 


 fate of Iraq can be allowed to rest with the efforts of a 


 new, weak, untested and inexperienced government then why are 


 we risking American lives.



 Both propositions cannot be true.



 I accept the President's analysis of the importance of 


 winning in Iraq and therefore I am compelled to propose that 


 his recently announced strategy is inadequate.



 The second weakness is that the current strategy debate 


 once again focuses too much on the military and too little on 


 everything that has not been working. The one instrument that 


 has been reasonably competent is the combat element of 


 American military power. That is a very narrow definition and 


 should not be expanded to include the non-combat elements of 


 the Department of Defense which also have a lot of 


 difficulties in performing adequately.



 The great failures in the Iraq and Afghanistan campaigns 


 have been in non-combat power. Intelligence, diplomacy, 


 economic aid, information operations, support from the 


 civilian elements of national power. These have been the 


 great centers of failure in America's recent conflicts. They 


 are a major reason we have done so badly in Iraq. The gap 


 between the President's recent proposals and the required 


 rethinking and transforming of our non-combat instruments of 


 power is simply breathtaking.



 No military leader I have talked with believes military 


 force is adequate to win in Iraq. Every one of them insists 


 that the civilian instruments of power are more important 


 than the combat elements. They all assert that they can hold 


 the line for a while with force but that holding the line 


 will ultimately fail if we are not using that time to 


 achieve progress in nonmilitary areas.



 This failure of the non-combat bureaucracies cannot be 


 solved in Iraq. The heart of the problem is in Washington and 


 that brings us to the third weakness in the current strategy.



 The third weakness in the current strategy is its inability 


 to impose war-time decision-making and accountability in 


 Washington.



 The interagency process is hopelessly broken.



 This is not a new phenomenon. I first wrote about it in 


 1984 in Window of Opportunity when I asserted:



 [W]e must decide what sort of executive-branch planning and 


 implementation system are desirable.



 At a minimum, we will need closer relationships between the 


 intelligence agencies, the diplomatic agencies, the economic 


 agencies, the military agencies, the news media and the 


 political structure. There has to be a synergism in which our 


 assessment of what is happening relates to our policies as 


 they are developed and implemented. Both analyses and 


 implementation must be related to the new media and political 


 system because all basic policies must have public support if 


 they are to succeed.



 Finally, once the professionals have mastered their 


 professions and have begun to work in systems that are 


 effective and coordinated, those professionals must teach 


 both the news media and the elected politicians. No free 


 society can for long accept the level of ignorance about war, 


 history, and the nature of power which has become the norm 


 for our news media and our elected politicians. An ignorant 


 society is on its way to becoming an extinct society.



 In 1991 my concern for replacing the broken interagency 


 system with an integrated system of effective coordination 


 was heightened when General Max Thurmond who had planned and 


 led the liberation of Panama told me unequivocally that the 


 interagency process was broken.



 In 1995 that process was reinforced when General Hartzog 


 described the failures of the interagency in trying to deal 


 with Haiti.



 As early as 2002 it was clear that the interagency had 


 broken down in Afghanistan and I gave a very strong speech in 


 May 2003 at the American Enterprise Institute criticizing the 


 process.



 By the summer of 2003 it was clear the interagency was 


 failing in Iraq and by September and October 2003 we were 


 getting consistent reports from the field of the gap between 


 the capability of the combat forces and the failure of the 


 civilian systems.



 No senior officer in the Defense Department doubts that the 


 current interagency cannot work at the speed of modern war. 


 They will not engage in a fight with the National Security 


 Council or the State Department or the various civilian 


 agencies which fail to do their job. But in private they will 


 assert over and over again that the interagency system is 


 hopelessly broken.



 It was very disappointing to have the President focus so 


 much on 21,500 more military personnel and so little on the 


 reforms needed in all the other elements of the executive 


 branch.





 The proposals for winning in Iraq outlined below follow 


 from this analysis.













Key Steps to Victory in Iraq




 1. Place General Petraeus in charge of the Iraq campaign 


 and establish that the Ambassador is operating in support of 


 the military commander.



 2. Since General Petraeus will now have responsibility for 


 victory in Iraq all elements of achieving victory are within 


 his purview and he should report daily to the White House on 


 anything significant which is not working or is needed



 3. Create a deputy chief of staff to the President and 


 appoint a retired four star general or admiral to manage Iraq 


 implementation for the Commander in Chief on a daily basis.



 4. Establish that the second briefing (after the daily 


 intelligence brief) the President will get every day is from 


 his deputy chief of staff for Iraq implementation.



 5. Establish a War Cabinet which will meet once a week to 


 review metrics of implementation and resolve failures and 


 enforce decisions. The President should chair the War Cabinet 


 personally and his deputy chief of staff for Iraq 


 implementation should prepare the agenda for the weekly 


 review and meeting.



 6. Establish three plans: one for achieving victory with 


 the help of the Iraqi government, one for achieving victory 


 with the passive acquiescence of the Iraqi government, one 


 for achieving victory even if the current Iraqi government is 


 unhappy. The third plan may involve very significant shifts 


 in troops and resources away from Baghdad and a process of 


 allowing the Iraqi central government to fend for itself if 


 it refuses to cooperate.



 7. Communicate clearly to Syria and Iran that the United 


 States is determined to win in Iraq and that any further 


 interference (such as the recent reports of sophisticated 


 Iranian explosives being sent to Iraq to target Americans) 


 will lead to direct and aggressive countermeasures.



 8. Pour as many intelligence assets into the fight as 


 needed to develop an overwhelming advantage in intelligence 


 preparation of the battlefield.



 9. Develop a commander's capacity to spend money on local 


 activities sufficient to enable every local American 


 commander to have substantial leverage in dealing with local 


 communities.



 10. Establish a jobs corps or civil conservation corps of 


 sufficient scale to bring unemployment for males under 30 


 below 10 percent (see the attached oped by Mayor Giuliani and 


 myself on this topic).



 11. Expand dramatically the integration of American 


 purchasing power in buying from Iraqi firms pioneered by 


 Assistant Secretary Paul Brinkley to maximize the rate of 


 recovery of the Iraqi economy.



 12. Expand the American Army and Marine Corps as much as 


 needed to sustain the fights in Iraq and Afghanistan while 


 also being prepared for other contingencies and maintaining a 


 sustainable rhythm for the families and the force.



 13. Demand a war budget for recapitalization of the 


 military to continue modernization while defeating our 


 enemies. The current national security budget is lower as a 


 percentage of the economy than at any time from Pearl Harbor 


 through the end of the Cold War. It is less than half the 


 level Truman sustained before the Korean War.



 14. The State Department is too small, too undercapitalized 


 and too untrained for the demands of the 21st century. There 


 should be a 50 percent increase in the State Department 


 budget and a profound rethinking of the culture and systems 


 of the State Department so it can be an operationally 


 effective system.



 15. The Agency for International Development is hopelessly 


 unsuited to the new requirements of economic assistance and 


 development and should be rethought from the ground up. The 


 Marshall Plan and Point Four were as important as NATO in 


 containing the Soviet Empire. We do not have that capability 


 today.



 16. The President should issue executive orders where 


 possible to reform the implementation system so it works with 


 the speed and effectiveness required by the 21st century.



 17. Where legislation is needed the President should 


 collaborate with Congress in honestly reviewing the systems 


 that are failing and developing new metrics, new structures 


 and new strategies.



 18. Under our Constitution it is impossible to have this 


 scale of rethinking and reform without deep support from the 


 legislative branch. Without Republican Senator Arthur 


 Vandenburg, Democratic President Harry Truman could never 


 have developed the containment policies that saved freedom 


 and ultimately defeated the Soviet Empire. The President 


 should ask the bipartisan leaders of Congress to cooperate in 


 establishing a joint Legislative-Executive working group on 


 winning the war and should openly brief the legislative 


 branch on the problems which are weakening the American 


 system abroad. Only by educating and informing the Congress 


 can we achieve the level of mutual understanding and mutual 


 commitment that this long hard task will require.



 Thank you for this opportunity to share these proposals.
