---
---

# CONGRATULATING LIU XIAOBO ON NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
## `6d0b3641186d83fcf5de742a7bb68110`
`Mr. WOLF — 7 December 2010`

---


Mr. WOLF. I want to thank my good friend and distinguished colleague 
Congressman Chris Smith of New Jersey for introducing this important 
resolution which congratulates Chinese democracy advocate Liu Xiaobo on 
the award.

Congressman Smith--and I think all the colleagues in this House on 
both sides should know--is one of the greatest human rights advocates 
in the Congress, and his leadership on this issue and on human rights 
and religious freedom is really, I think, one of the finest that I have 
ever served with since I have been here in Congress. I also want to say 
parenthetically, why hasn't the Church in the West and in the United 
States also spoken out on some of these more profound issues of human 
rights and religious freedoms? The silence of the Church in the West is 
quite disturbing.

On Friday, the award ceremony will be held with an empty chair, as my 
colleague Mr. Wu said, as a solemn reminder that this year's Nobel 
laureate remains languishing in prison. Chinese authorities have placed 
his wife under house arrest to ensure that she will not be able to 
accept the prize on his behalf.

Since 1901, only three other Nobel Prize winners have been prevented 
from attending the ceremony to accept the prize. In 1935, Carl von 
Ossietzy, a German peace activist, was prevented from receiving the 
prize by the Nazi government. In 1975, Andrei Sakharov, a Russian 
nuclear scientist, was barred from leaving the Soviet Union to accept 
the prize. And in 1991, Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Burma's 
democracy movement, was not allowed to leave the country by the brutal 
ruling military junta.

China should be ashamed and embarrassed to be in the company of Nazi 
Germany, the Soviet Union, and Burma. Instead, the Chinese Government 
has launched a diplomatic campaign to encourage other nations to 
boycott Friday's ceremony. In a public statement, China's vice foreign 
minister threatened that ''if they make the wrong choice, they have to 
bear the consequences.'' The 18 countries that have sided with China 
and will not attend Friday's ceremonies are Afghanistan, Colombia, 
Egypt, Russia, Kazakhstan, Cuba, Morocco, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, the 
Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sudan--the genocide Government of 
Sudan--Tunisia, Ukraine, Venezuela, and Vietnam.

And when their lobbyists come up here next year begging for help, 
remember, they were not willing to go to Oslo even to stand up for 
human rights. Here we are giving the Moroccan Government $697 million 
in the Millennium Challenge grant, and they won't even go to Oslo. 
These countries, which are among the world's worst human rights 
abusers, will join China in its shameful boycott.

This year's Nobel Prize winner is representative not just of Dr. Liu, 
but of the thousands of Chinese prisoners that remain languishing in 
prisons and labor camps due to their political and religious beliefs. 
Chinese authorities continue to crack down on the Protestant house 
church Christians, Catholics, Tibetan Buddhists, Muslim Uyghurs, and 
members of the Falun Gong.

In passing this resolution, the U.S. Congress sends an important 
message to the dissidents of China and all those who are being 
persecuted around the world. The people of the United States stand with 
those who sit in their jail cells day after day, week after week, year 
after year in their quest for freedom.

Robert F. Kennedy once said: ''Each time a man stands up for an 
ideal, or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against 
injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope'' and ''those ripples 
build a current which can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression 
and resistance.''

The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Dr. Liu has sent out that 
ripple of hope that cannot be stopped. And I believe that in my 
lifetime--and remember, the Berlin Wall fell like that--in my lifetime, 
the Chinese people will know the true freedom, and I will look forward 
to celebrating that day.

I thank Mr. Smith again for his leadership on this and so many other 
issues.