---
---

# PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `6d122fd7c0970efee6ded053dbfbaf4f`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado â€” 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, as a proud cosponsor of this 
bill--and of similar legislation since shortly after I was first 
elected to Congress--I strongly support its approval by the House.

The bill amends the Presidential Records Act of 1978 to establish a 
clear and equitable process enabling incumbent and former Presidents to 
review records prior to their public release under the act and 
determine whether to assert constitutional privilege claims against 
release of the records.

Importantly, it would revoke an Executive order issued by President 
George W. Bush in 2001 that overturned rules set by President Ronald 
Reagan. By that order, President Bush has sought to give himself and 
Vice President Cheney--as well as former Presidents and Vice 
Presidents--broad authority to withhold Presidential records or delay 
their release indefinitely. I do not think that order should be allowed 
to stand.

The Presidential Records Act was enacted in 1978 after the Watergate 
scandal and the subsequent resignation of President Nixon. It makes 
clear that Presidential records belong to the American people, not to 
the President, and required the Archivist of the United States--who was 
given custody of the records--to make the records available to the 
public as rapidly and completely as possible consistent with the 
provisions of the law.

The act first applied to the records of former President Ronald 
Reagan. In 1989, he issued an Executive order requiring the Archivist 
to give the incumbent and former Presidents 30 days notice before 
releasing Presidential records, with the records to be released after 
that unless the incumbent or former President claimed executive 
privilege, or unless the incumbent President instructed the Archivist 
to extend the period indefinitely. If the incumbent President decided 
to invoke executive privilege, the Archivist would withhold the records 
unless directed to release them by a final court order. If the 
incumbent President decided not to support a former President's claim 
of privilege, the Archivist would decide whether or not to honor the 
claim.

Before he left office, President Reagan used his authority under the 
act to restrict access to some of his records for 12 years, a period 
that expired in January 2001.

In February 2001, the Archivist provided the required 30-day notice 
of his intent to release about 68,000 pages of former President 
Reagan's records. In March, June, and August of 2001, the counsel to 
President Bush instructed the Archivist to extend the time for claiming 
executive privilege. And then, in November 2001, President Bush issued 
a new Executive order extending the review period for former Presidents 
to 90 days and allowing a former President to extend it indefinitely. 
In addition, that order allows an unlimited review period for the 
current President and requires the Archives to honor the assertions of 
executive privilege made by either the incumbent or a former 
President--even if an incumbent President disagrees with the former 
President's claim. And, while the Reagan order said records were to be 
released on a schedule unless action occurred, the Bush Executive order 
says records will be released only after actions by the former and 
current Presidents have occurred--so, secrecy, not disclosure, is the 
rule. Also, the Bush Executive order allows designees of a former 
President to assert privilege claims after that President's death and 
authorizes former vice Presidents to assert executive privilege claims 
over their records.


Mr. Speaker, when we think what difference the release of the 
Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon tapes has made in our understanding of the 
decision-making on Vietnam we can see how much could be lost if 
representatives of the Reagan, Clinton, and current Bush 
administrations in the future can hold back any and all documents 
related to Iran-contra, the first gulf war, the way the Clinton 
administration responded to intelligence about a potential Al Qaeda 
attack, or the current administration's decisions about Iraq.

It is understandable that every President and his or her heirs wants 
to put the best possible face on his administration, but an edited and 
airbrushed version of history is not something that will serve our 
long-term national interest.

H.R. 1255 would nullify Executive Order 13233 and establish 
procedures to ensure the timely release of Presidential records.

It requires the Archivist to give advance notice to former and 
incumbent Presidents before records are released so they can review the 
records and decide whether to claim privilege and provides for 
withholding of material for which the incumbent President claims 
privilege. The bill also clarifies that the incumbent and former 
Presidents must make privilege claims personally and that a right to 
claim executive privilege cannot be bequeathed to assistants, 
relatives, or descendants. And the bill eliminates executive privilege 
claims for vice Presidents, restoring the long-standing doctrine that 
the right to executive privilege over Presidential records is held only 
by Presidents.

Mr. Speaker, this is a fair, balanced, and essential bill. I strongly 
urge its approval.