---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `6d14c549176fdaa7221b5858cc79aa99`
`Mr. ELLISON — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. ELLISON. Well, my colleagues, let me thank you again for this 
excellent dialogue.

We have to, as the difference makers in this 110th Congress, tell the 
people what's going on, what we're here for, and to reclaim the 
Congress as a co-equal branch of government articulated in article I, a 
co-equal branch of government that resides and has all legislative 
powers herein granted shall be vested in the Congress of the United 
States and shall consist of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.

And so as I heard my colleague, Mr. John Hall, articulate his trip to 
Iraq, I was forced to reflect upon my own. And I didn't go there out of 
an idle curiosity seeker, a person trying to go on an interesting trip, 
but as somebody who is going to be called upon to execute a vote, to 
push a button, red or green or otherwise, as to monies that will be 
sent forth and as to other business that will be happening in Iraq. 
That's our job, we claim it, we do not abdicate it, and it would be 
wrong and a dereliction of our duty to do otherwise.

So, let me commend you and everybody who has gone to that place where 
our constituents, some of them have spent up to 18 months at a time as 
they face extended deployments.

And I also want you to know that I sat down at a table with young 
people


from my district in Minnesota where we ate lunch. I was struck by the 
fact that wherever they go, they've got these big old guns that they 
carry with them, everybody. It's like a wallet, but it probably weighs 
quite a bit more than that. And that's just the lives that they lead. 
But they distinguish themselves and make us proud by their courage. And 
it is political authority, politicians like us that make decisions 
whether they stay or whether they go. So we had better at least spend a 
little bit of time there with them, and we had better at least try to 
get in their shoes and identify with what they're going through just a 
little bit and feel that 130-degree heat that they're in every single 
day and feel the dust and sand under their feet and the hum of those 
helicopters. I'm sure you were humming around in those Black Hawks with 
the windows out and the machine guns on either side, strapped in in 
four places and feeling the heat of those propellers as the air hits 
against your helmet. It's the kind of experience that we go through so 
that we can have some real sympathy and empathy with the people who we 
are charged to represent. So, hats off to you, Congressman. I 
appreciate it.

I'm not going to talk long because I love the switching around that 
we do. But I just want to make one other point as we look at article I 
and we reclaim and assert our responsibility under the Constitution as 
Congress. It is also important to understand that we have asserted our 
authority in the area of promoting working-class prosperity for people.

I am so proud that one of the things we did for the first time in 9 
years is raised the minimum wage, Mr. Speaker. The hardest working 
people in America getting paid the least got a raise under this 
Congress. And I don't want people to make that into any kind of a small 
matter. Thousands and thousands of Americans benefited by raising the 
minimum wage for the first time in 9 years. I'm talking about the folks 
that clean the bedpans, mop the floors, sit in those cold or hot 
parking booths all across this country and really do the tough, tough 
work, getting paid not much of nothing. And you know that if you make 
minimum wage, basically, if your employer can pay you less, they 
probably would. So what we did is we raised that minimum wage so people 
can have a little bit better of a life. So now instead of moms having 
to tell kids, ''Honey, you can't go on that class trip,'' ''Honey, 
you're going to have to wear those sneakers a few months longer,'' now, 
instead of dad saying, ''No, son, you can't sign up for baseball,'' or, 
''Yes, we're having macaroni and cheese again,'' now they can say, 
''No, we're going to do a little better this time. We're going to make 
your life a little better. We're going to make your quality of life a 
little better.''

So I just want to say, Mr. Speaker, that I'm so proud of my 
colleagues and this whole 110th Congress to be able to do a little bit 
better for the hardest working Americans in our country.