---
---

# VETERANS' HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `6d174e3119685afab8eff9c456bf51b8`
`Mr. FILNER — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, as with the last bill, I want to just thank 
both the chair, Mr. Michaud of Maine, and the ranking member, Mr. 
Miller from Florida, for their great leadership and bipartisan 
cooperation to get an important piece of legislation out.

This bill, the Veterans' Health Care Improvement Act of 2007, 
combines a lot of different ideas from Members on both sides of the 
aisle, and we are pleased to have this bill on the floor today.

Certainly, the mental health and well-being of our newest generation 
of veterans is a serious cause for concern and deserves our fullest 
attention.

The VA reported in April of this year that of the OEF/OIF veterans 
who have separated and sought health care through the VA, mental 
disorders rank second of frequency of possible diagnoses amongst these 
veterans.

Post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, is the number one health 
concern. At this point, over 39,000 returning veterans have received a 
provisional diagnosis of this, and we are looking into, in fact, maybe 
a systemic underestimation of those who are diagnosed and, therefore, 
to get treatment.

Mr. Speaker, the composition of the fighting forces in Iraq and 
Afghanistan today is unique from past conflicts. Guard and Reserve 
forces make up a large percentage of those fighting, around 50 percent 
or a little more. Though only 19 percent of the Nation lives in rural 
America, 44 percent of U.S. military recruits come from rural areas.

We must ensure that their health care and services meet the needs 
that they deserve and have earned. It must be available and accessible 
to all, and I would say we will take up as a committee the broad 
subject of rural veterans sometime in the near future.

This bill requires the VA to award grants to conduct workshop 
programs to help heal and better the lives of veterans who need it 
through therapeutic programs such as art, writing and music to name 
just a few. It establishes a grant program to provide transportation 
options to veterans living in rural areas that will help to lessen the 
burden on veterans who are unable to drive long distances due to their 
disability or illness.

It also provides permanent authority to the VA to treat veterans who 
are subject to chemical and biological testing. This is an obligation 
we owe to those who have served.

We provide also for readjustment counseling and mental health 
services. We include contracting with community mental health centers 
in areas not adequately served by VA and contracting with nonprofit 
mental health organizations to train OEF/OIF veterans in outreach and 
peer support.

We address issues affecting homeless veterans and their families. The 
VA has now become the largest single provider of direct services to 
homeless veterans, reaching 25 percent of homeless veterans a year 
through various programs. Our aim is to make it 100 percent. Many 
communities have recently gone through what they call stand-downs, 2- 
or 3-day efforts to bring the whole community in cooperation to provide 
the services that homeless veterans need, whether they be medical or 
dental or legal or drug abuse counseling, of course, food and clothing; 
and we do that in 3 days a year in many communities. It is up to the VA 
to do that 365 days a year for all our veterans, and we estimate over 
200,000 on the streets tonight who served our Nation.

Prior to becoming homeless, a large number of veterans have struggled 
with PTSD or had addictions acquired during or worsened by their 
military service, and we want to expand and extend the counseling 
services for these veterans. We expand programs to 12 locations 
throughout the Veterans Health Administration and extend this program 
through 2011.

The VA domiciliary care programs are an essential piece in assisting 
veterans and providing needed services to help them recover and become 
productive citizens again. We enhance in this bill the capacity of such 
domiciliary care programs, for female veterans especially.

Finally, we want to authorize VA to provide financial assistance to 
provide supportive services for very low-income veteran families who 
reside in permanent housing.

In short, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2874 takes care of the men and women who 
have so selflessly taken care of us. It provides our veterans with the 
quality health care programs and services they need and they so richly 
deserve. It is another down payment, another measurable piece of 
keeping our promise to those who have kept their promise to us

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.