# TRIBUTE TO GARY AND JONATHAN HARRIS
## `6d23f9a10e06cdb8d19754feb8a56ee8`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 11 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to two 
heroic soldiers of the U.S. Army from my home Commonwealth of Kentucky, 
Gary and Jonathan Harris. Father and son, each was awarded the Silver 
Star for valorous acts in two separate wars.

The Silver Star is the Nation's third-highest award for gallantry in 
action against an enemy of the United States. Those rare few who 
receive it do so because of their display of selfless sacrifice and 
unparalleled courage under fire.

Jonathan Harris, a UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter pilot holding the rank 
of chief warrant officer 2, came under attack near Gardez, Afghanistan, 
on July 2, 2008, while attempting to transport soldiers. His Blackhawk 
was attacked by the enemy with rocket-propelled grenades and anti-
aircraft gun systems. Jonathan was able to relocate and land the 
burning helicopter in a nearby field and safely evacuate the 
passengers. He then contacted another helicopter to extract his crew.

During the evacuation, while helping escort his wounded fellow 
soldiers to the new helicopter, Jonathan exposed himself to gunfire 
while protecting his wounded men and killing at least one attacker. 
Only after every member of the crew, ground forces, and extraction team 
were safely onboard did CW2 Jonathan Harris himself get into the 
helicopter. Because of these heroic deeds, Jonathan Harris is the first 
aviator to receive the Silver Star since the Vietnam war.

Gary Harris, Jonathan's father, was a staff sergeant serving in 
Vietnam when he performed the acts of gallantry that would earn him the 
same medal as his son's. Gary was a squad leader on August 15, 1969, 
when he and his fellow soldiers came under intense mortar and rocket 
fire while on combat patrol. He instructed his men to return fire and 
moved them into a more strategic position.

During the battle, Gary ran across the field of combat to assist 
medics while ignoring the risk to his own life from the enemy's 
gunfire. He helped transport the wounded to the medical-evacuation 
helicopter, saving the lives of many.

SSG Gary Harris received his original Silver Star in the mail, never 
having the benefit of a formal ceremony--until now. This past November, 
Gary Harris was honored at a ceremony in Fort Campbell, KY., while 
Jonathan Harris received his award at the Combined Joint Task Force-101 
Headquarters in Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan. They were able to view 
each other's ceremonies via video teleconference. At his ceremony, Gary 
Harris also received the Bronze Star Medal for his meritorious service 
in Vietnam as well as the Silver Star.

As is typical of so many of the brave men and women in uniform I have 
had the honor to meet over the years, both the father and the son 
insist that their own actions are not particularly remarkable. Each was 
quick to point to the other as more worthy of admiration and respect.

''For me, I feel like my grandfathers and my dad, those are the true 
heroes,'' said Jonathan Harris. ''I would like to think that something 
was passed on to me.''

Gary, on the other hand, recognized the value of the strong bond his 
son had with his fellow soldiers. ''These guys really stick together,'' 
he said. ''We did the same thing, but I don't think we were near as 
cohesive a group as they are. They are really gung ho about taking care 
of each other. . . . I know what it is like, every day facing death. It 
just tears your nerves all to pieces for a while.''

Gary and Jonathan Harris are excellent examples of the brave and 
dedicated soldiers that make America's Armed Forces the best in the 
world. And clearly there is a strong sense of duty, honor and love of 
country that runs in the Harris family and has been passed on from 
father to son. Their spirit of service represents the very best of what 
Kentucky has to offer our great Nation.

Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing SSG Gary 
Harris and CWO Jonathan Harris for the many sacrifices they have made 
to our country. Kentuckians everywhere are honored to know and love 
such brave heroes.
