---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `6d2bb7915cd6ea5c58fd8746c038e556`
`Mr. GREGG — 23 February 2010`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I rise today to remember and honor Army SPC 
Marc Paul Decoteau of Waterville Valley, NH, for his service and 
supreme sacrifice for his country.

Specialist Decoteau demonstrated a willingness and dedication to 
serve and


defend his country by joining the U.S. Army. Just as many of America's 
heroes have taken up arms in the face of dire threats, Marc dedicated 
himself to the defense of our ideals, values, freedoms, and way of 
life. His valor and service cost him his life, but his sacrifice will 
help spare millions from lives under tyranny and oppression.

An exceptional student-athlete, Marc played an integral role in two 
Plymouth Regional High School State football championships and was also 
a standout lacrosse player. Marc graduated from Plymouth High School in 
Plymouth, NH, in 2008 and, sensing a call to duty, enlisted in the Army 
shortly thereafter.

Tragically, on January 29, 2010, this brave 19-year-old gave his life 
for this Nation while in support of combat operations in the Wardak 
Province of Afghanistan. At the time of this hostile action, Specialist 
Decoteau, a member of the 6th Psychological Operations Battalion out of 
Fort Bragg, NC, was serving his first tour in Afghanistan in support of 
Operation Enduring Freedom.

A beloved member of the Waterville Valley community, Marc was 
respected and admired by all those around him. As a loyal member of the 
U.S. Army, he continually performed above and beyond all expectations. 
Specialist Decoteau will live on as a decorated hero and a patriot.

Marc was recognized for his service several times, receiving the 
National Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal with 
Campaign Star, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service 
Ribbon, and Parachutist Badge. He was also posthumously awarded the 
Army Commendation Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, and NATO Medal.

My condolences and prayers go out to Marcs parents Mark and Nancy, 
his brother Andrew and sister Maddie, and his family and friends. I 
offer them my deepest sympathies and most heartfelt thanks for their 
sacrifice. Marc exemplified the words of Daniel Webster who said, ''God 
grants liberty only to those who love it, and are always ready to guard 
and defend it.'' Because of his efforts, the liberty of this country is 
made more secure. God bless Marc Decoteau.
