# PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007
## `6d34d08aae997327f85070571e802c7d`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Let me respond to what the Senator from Connecticut 
indicated. In times of war, we don't give up our responsibility in the 
Senate to review and make laws. The notion that we simply defer this to 
the Director of National Intelligence and whatever he says is an 
abdication of our duties, especially in times of war. In fact, let's 
remember why this is here. The Senator regrets we are debating this and 
some of these very important matters that are generally kept secret are 
being discussed. I agree. But why are they secret? Because the 
administration was conducting an illegal wiretapping program and 
somebody inappropriately blew the lid on that. That wasn't the doing of 
anybody in this body. That was due to the incompetence and 
inappropriate conduct of this administration in the first place. That 
is why we are here with this kind of debate, not because of anything 
anybody did here.

By the way, this horrible conflict we have with those who attacked us 
on 9/11, this conflict is something we all


agree on. Not a single Senator doesn't think we should be able to get 
at these foreign calls. Not a single Senator doesn't want to give the 
admiral what he has asked for that is reasonable. We simply want 
protection for the civil liberties of people who have done absolutely 
nothing wrong.

Let's be sure what this debate is about. I thank the majority leader 
and Senator Rockefeller, Senator Levin, Senator Leahy, and especially 
Senator Whitehouse, who put tremendous effort into this, for trying to 
make this as good as possible.

I am going to vote for the Rockefeller-Leahy-Levin bill. I am 
concerned we are moving too fast and that we have not necessarily come 
up with the right answer to the problem we all recognize exists. But I 
am prepared to vote for this because I think it is at least a 
reasonable approach for addressing legitimate problems without unduly 
compromising the civil liberties of Americans. I do so with great 
reluctance, with the expectation that this is an experiment with a 
short expiration date, an experiment we can assess and modify as we 
move forward.

But we cannot pass the Bond-McConnell proposal. This bill would go 
way too far. It would permit the Government, with no court oversight 
whatsoever, to intercept the communications of calls to and from the 
United States, as long as it is directed at a person--any person, not a 
suspected terrorist--reasonably believed to be outside the United 
States. That means giving free rein to the Government to wiretap 
anyone, including U.S. citizens who live overseas, servicemembers such 
as those in Iraq, journalists reporting from overseas, or even Members 
of Congress who are overseas and can call home to the United States. 
This is without any court oversight whatsoever. That is unacceptable.

It goes far beyond the identified problem of foreign-to-foreign 
communications that we all agree on. It goes far, far beyond the public 
descriptions of the President's warrantless wiretapping program. What 
little judicial review the bill does provide is essentially 
meaningless. The FISA Court would decide only whether the Government 
certification that it has put reasonable procedures in place to direct 
surveillance against people reasonably believed to be abroad is 
''clearly erroneous.'' That is basically a standard that is nothing 
more than a rubberstamp. It ignores the real issue which is protecting 
the rights of Americans who may be calling or e-mailing friends, 
family, or business partners overseas and who have done absolutely 
nothing wrong.

Let me point out that the so-called court review in the Bond bill 
will never happen, because the court only has to rule within 180 days 
of enactment, and there is now a sunset on the bill after 180 days.

A 6-month sunset does not justify voting for this bad version of the 
bill. We can't just suspend the Constitution for 6 months.

I strongly oppose the Bond bill, and I urge my colleagues to oppose 
it.