---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `6d4224d7f7e2f54501f70c658ca703ea`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Chairman, rise today in strong support 
of this legislation.

This legislation along with the passage of the Rest and Recuperation 
for Troops Act yesterday and the Military Construction and VA 
Appropriations bill earlier this year, continues a strong record in 
this Congress of providing our troops with the funding and equipment 
they need in the field, and ensuring they have the healthcare and rest 
they need when they come home.

I applaud the Appropriations Committee's work to provide more than 
the President's request for combat equipment depleted in Iraq, 
operational training, National Guard and reserves' battle gear, support 
services for military families, and shipbuilding.

This bill appropriates $459.6 billion for Defense Department programs 
in FY 2008. The bill's total is $3.5 billion, just 1 percent less than 
the President's request, but $39.7 billion, or 9 percent more than 
comparable levels for last year's regular defense appropriations--not 
accounting for $165 billion in FY 2007 emergency supplemental defense 
funds for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan we sent the President 
earlier this year.

I thank the Committee for including an important project being worked 
on by a consortium of universities in Texas in collaboration with the 
Air Force, the Consortium for Nanotechnology in Aerospace Commerce and 
Technology (CONTACT). Through collaborations among the universities, 
the Air Force Research Laboratory, and the aerospace commercial sector, 
this unique partnership will develop leading-edge nanotechnology 
aerospace applications faster and better than could be achieved 
individually at each institution.

I hope to work with the Committee as they move to conference and in 
next year's cycle to highlight the importance of three other projects I 
requested that did not get funded.

The Radar/Video Fusion Vessel and Port Security Demonstration Project 
will develop a sensor package integrated to provide surveillance, 
warning, monitoring and tracking of ships, vessels, and integrate into 
current and future Houston Ship Channel surveillance capability. 
Increased security at ports and waterways, landside and waterside, is 
now an essential part of homeland defense. This is particularly true in 
Houston where ships and barges have direct access to high value sites 
where destruction of assets will cause major casualties and/or economic 
impact.

Two other projects, the Battleship TEXAS Restoration Project, and the 
Manganese Health Research Project, have each been funded in the past, 
and I hope the Chairman would work with me to see that these important 
projects receive the funding necessary to complete the projects in the 
future.

Again, I strongly support this bill which will provide essential 
funding for the military and our troops, and I urge my colleagues to 
join me in supporting it.