---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `6d5e5bed841cd74dd0a4f89ba8f62933`
`Mr. HARKIN — 1 February 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I am honored to join with the 
distinguished senior Senator from my State, Senator Grassley, to 
introduce the Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act.

During my years in the Navy, I learned one of the most important 
lessons of my entire life: Never leave a buddy behind. That's true on 
the battlefield--and it's also true after our servicemembers return 
home. Taking care of our veterans is a continuing cost of national 
defense, and we need to make sure we don't abandon them once they 
return home.

Our service men and women endure tremendous stress during combat. 
Almost all of our soldiers reported being under fire while serving in 
Iraq and knowing someone seriously injured or killed. Returning home 
and rejoining their families and friends can be a time of hope and joy, 
but it can also be a time of enormous stress. In particular, the 
traumas and memories of combat service can cause profound problems. 
Army studies show that around 25 percent of soldiers who have served in 
Iraq display symptoms of serious mental-health problems, including 
depression, substance abuse and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Tragically, suicide disproportionately affects veterans. In 2004, 
veterans accounted for more than 20 percent of deaths by suicide, yet 
they make up only 10 percent of the general population. We should be 
addressing this shocking rate of suicide among our veterans. But the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) currently does not have appropriate 
suicide prevention, early detection, and treatment programs available 
to meet the needs of our veterans. This is unacceptable! The aim of our 
bill is to improve early detection and intervention; provide access to 
services for veterans in crisis; and, thereby, prevent the unnecessary 
deaths of the men and women who have put their lives on the line to 
defend our nation.

Joshua Omvig was one such veteran. Josh was a member of the United 
States Army Reserve 339th MP Company, based in Davenport, IA. Before 
leaving for Iraq, he was a member of the Grundy Center Volunteer Fire 
Department and the Grundy Center Police Reserves. He felt honored to 
serve his country in the Reserves and hoped to return to serve his 
community as a police officer. Unfortunately, when he returned from his 
11-month deployment in Iraq, he brought the traumas of war with him. He 
committed suicide a few days before Christmas in 2005. He was just 22 
years old.

This was a preventable death. If Josh and his family had had better 
access to mental health services; if they had been trained to recognize 
the symptoms of PTSD; and if they had known where to turn for help; 
then the tragedy of his death might well have been avoided.

In his honor, Senator Grassley and I offer this legislation to 
improve the services offered by the VA, and to bring down the appalling 
rate of suicide among veterans.

First, this bill focuses on reducing the stigma associated with 
seeking treatment for mental health problems. Almost 80 percent of 
soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan who exhibited signs of mental 
health problems were not referred for mental health services. More than 
two-thirds of the servicemembers who screened positive for a mental 
health problem reported that they were concerned about the stigma 
associated with seeking treatment.

Given these statistics, our bill calls for the creation of a mental 
health campaign to increase awareness of mental illness and the risk 
factors for suicide. Veterans need to hear from members of the chain of 
command, leadership within the VA, and from their peers that seeking 
mental health services is important for their health, their families, 
and no different than seeking treatment for a physical health issue, 
such as chronic pain or a broken leg.

Second, this bill ensures that VA staff and medical personnel will 
receive suicide prevention and education training so that they can 
recognize when and where to refer veterans for assistance. 
Additionally, the legislation ensures 24-hour access to mental health 
care for those who are at risk for suicide, including those in rural or 
remote areas. Veterans who do not have easy access to VA hospitals and 
veterans centers must be assured of access to services during periods 
of crisis.

Finally, this bill recognizes the importance of family and peer 
support. It trains peer counselors to understand the risk factors for 
suicide, provide support during readjustment, and to assist veterans in 
seeking help. This bill also engages family members by helping them to 
understand the readjustment process; to recognize the signs and 
symptoms of mental illness; and let them know where to turn for 
assistance. By enlisting the aid and support of family members and 
peers, we will reduce the likelihood that our veterans suffer in 
isolation.

The stresses that our service men and women endure in combat are 
strong and can trigger severe mental


health issues. Although our men and women may come home safely, the war 
isn't over for them. Often, the physical wounds of combat are repaired, 
but the mental damage--the psychological scars of combat--can haunt a 
person for a lifetime. The Federal Government has a moral contract with 
those who have fought for our country and sacrificed so much. Together, 
we can work to make good on that contract. Our service men and women 
deserve to know that we will not forget about their service--and we 
will not leave them behind.