---
---

# None
## `6d73c2adf71c9003b70dd18426eb0a06`
`Mr. KYL — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, I thank the chairman of the committee, the 
Senator from Michigan, for his courtesy. I rise today to discuss the 
pending business, the National Defense Authorization Act for 2008. 
There was a lot of work done on this important legislation. I wish to 
discuss five key areas of the bill--Iraq, our nuclear deterrent, 
missile defense, space threats, and our approach to the war against 
terrorists.

This bill has fundamental flaws and must be improved, not only so it 
can pass this body, but so it can be signed by the President and not be 
vetoed. Remember, this bill does not need to become law, and failure to 
improve some critical areas of the bill will ensure that it doesn't. To 
that end, it is important that the Senate have sufficient time to 
debate the bill. We have already seen a record number of cloture 
motions filed this year, by my count over 40. And, as I understand it, 
another has recently been filed dealing with the so-called Webb 
amendment. This is probably not a good way to consider a bill as 
significant as the Defense authorization bill.

Let me, first of all, address the subject of Iraq, the central front 
in the global war against terrorists. Many Senators will spend a 
significant amount of time focusing on Iraq policy, and I welcome the 
opportunity to do that. Iraq, after all, is the central front in the 
global war against the terrorists. This is what Osama bin Laden says. 
This is not my own definition. Our success there is not only important 
to the people of Iraq, but it is critical to the national security of 
the United States.

I mentioned Osama bin Laden. He once referred to Iraq as the capital 
of the caliphate. That is the area he would like to establish over 
which he would rule, and Baghdad would actually be the center part of 
that new area. He has argued that ''the most serious issue today for 
the whole world is this third world war that is raging in Iraq.''

Let there be no doubt that al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden are very much 
present in Iraq and very intent on defeating the United States there. 
The junior Senator from Virginia has offered an amendment that will 
codify what the Pentagon, according to the service chiefs and Secretary 
of Defense, is already attempting to do with so-called dwell time. That 
policy is for the Commander in Chief to determine, not the Congress.

Other Senators will offer other amendments relating to Iraq. Among 
them are amendments to withdraw our troops or make it harder for the 
administration to prosecute the war. I look forward to a debate on all 
of these amendments, but I make two points to my colleagues who might 
use this bill to attempt to prematurely leave Iraq or undercut our 
current strategy there.

One, we need to give the plan that is being executed by General 
Petraeus time to succeed. We are already seeing signs of progress in 
the early stages of the surge, and we need to await his report in 
September before making judgments about what to do next.

Second, advocates of withdrawal need to confront the likely 
consequences of their proposed policies, none of which, in my opinion, 
are good.

To the first point, the last of the five combat brigades of the surge 
just became operational a couple weeks ago, June 15. According to the 
U.S. military spokesman, LTC Chris Garver,




 This is the first time we'll be able to do the entire 


 strategy as it was designed.


So it would be premature, to say the least, to judge the effect of 
the surge at this point and make important strategic decisions based on 
that judgment. We are already beginning to see Iraqi forces assuming 
more responsibility over their security, coalition forces receiving 
more cooperation from Iraqi civilians, and humanitarian and economic 
conditions improving.

The second point. Advocates of withdrawal have the duty to tell the 
American people how they propose to grapple with the consequences of 
their withdrawal. What will you do about the likely ethnic cleansing 
and genocide against Iraqi citizens who supported coalition forces? GEN 
Anthony Zinni said:




 This is no Vietnam or Somalia or those places where you can 


 walk away. If we just pull out, we'll find ourselves back in 


 short order.


What would the proponents of these amendments do when Iraq and al-
Qaida are emboldened by our retreat, and terrorists enjoy a new safe 
haven from which to plot attacks against the United States and our 
allies?

Terrorism expert Peter Bergen said this:




 [A U.S. withdrawal] . . . would fit all too neatly into 


 Osama bin Laden's master narrative about American foreign 


 policy. His theme is that America is a paper tiger that 


 cannot tolerate body bags coming home; to back it up, he 


 cites President Ronald Reagan's 1984 withdrawal of United 


 States troops from Lebanon and President Bill Clinton's 


 decision nearly a decade later to pull troops from Somalia. A 


 unilateral pullout from Iraq would only confirm this analysis 


 of American weakness among his jihadist allies.


What would proponents of amendments do if violence in Iraq escalates 
and draws in neighboring countries? Here is what a recent Brookings 
Institution study said about that point:




 Iraq appears to have many of the conditions most conducive 


 to spillover because there is a high degree of foreign 


 ''interest'' in Iraq. Ethnic, tribal, and religious groups 


 within Iraq are equally prevalent in neighboring countries 


 and they share many of the same grievances. Iraq has a 


 history of violence with its neighbors, which has fostered




 desires for vengeance and fomented constant clashes. Iraq 


 also possesses resources that its neighbors covet--oil being 


 the most obvious, but important religious shrines also figure 


 in the mix. There is a high degree of commerce and 


 communication between Iraq and its neighbors, and its borders 


 are porous. All of this suggests that spillover from an Iraqi 


 civil war would tend toward the most dangerous end of the 


 spillover spectrum.


What would the proponents of these amendments say to America's 
moderate allies in the Muslim world, including Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and 
Pakistan, who would justifiably question our commitment to them and to 
the long war in which we find ourselves?

And how would the proponents convince them not to begin hedging their 
bets and cooperate less with the United States, thus further enabling 
and emboldening the terrorists?


Do the proponents of these amendments believe withdrawing our forces 
will end our war against the terrorists? Do they believe they would not 
simply follow us home and attack us on our own soil?

The Petraeus plan may not offer an easy way forward, but it is the 
only plan I have heard that does not promise defeat. But as I said, we 
will have our debates on Iraq policy, as we should. There are other 
debates about this bill that we should also have.

I respect the work that many have done on the bill, but an outside 
observer, I suggest, might wonder exactly how this bill is going to 
make us safer. It is supposed to set the national defense policies for 
the United States, but it is not enough to simply provide funding 
authorizations. Leaving threats undefended against will not be excused 
simply because we have spent more money than last year. In fact, some 
of the biggest flaws in the bill are policy changes, not just funding 
changes.

Let me discuss what some of these flaws are. Our nuclear deterrent, 
the reliable replacement warhead, our nuclear weapons complex, the 
language regarding stockpile stewardship and nuclear weapons complex, 
and, finally, a recommendation regarding the Comprehensive Test-Ban 
Treaty. First, to the reliable replacement warhead.

I am deeply troubled by what appears to be a strategy of slow, 
inconspicuous disarmament of our strategic deterrent in this bill and 
the other authorization and spending bills of the new majority in the 
Senate.

The administration's request for development of the first reliable 
replacement warhead programs was completely eliminated by the House in 
its appropriations bill, a fate that thankfully was avoided in the 
Senate subcommittee markup. Yet there is a clear signal sent by this 
bill which cut the administration's request by $43 million out of a 
total of $195 million, and which handcuffs the administration from 
moving beyond all but the earliest phases of development of the 
warhead. This leaves the U.S. nuclear deterrent absolutely reliant on 
weapons designed and built in the 1980s.

The stockpile stewardship and nuclear weapons complex: Actions taken 
by the new majority in the House cut approximately $500 million from 
the upgrade and modernization of facilities in the nuclear weapons 
complex. These are responsible for refurbishing deployed bombs and 
warheads, storing older ones, and dismantling those no longer needed. 
This, obviously, further erodes the reliability of our current 
stockpile.

What signal does this send not only to our enemies but to our allies, 
allies who for over 60 years have relied on the umbrella of protection 
of our nuclear deterrent?

I mentioned the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty. Perhaps the most--it 
is hard to find the right word--shall I say irregular part of the bill 
is the language that would attempt to short-circuit what is this body's 
most serious responsibility: the role of the Senate in treaty 
ratification.

Tucked away near the end of this bill, very much in the fine print, 
is an unprecedented attempt to preordain the ratification of a treaty--
a treaty already overwhelmingly rejected by this body--the CTBT. Unlike 
the very reasoned rejection of the CTBT 8 years ago following extensive 
debate after committee hearings, consideration of intelligence, and the 
like, this language in the bill presumes to state that the will of the 
Congress, without the benefit of a single hearing or single committee 
action of this body, let alone reference to intelligence and debate in 
the full Senate, is to ratify the treaty.

The solemn responsibility of this body to consider treaties cannot be 
so cavalierly disregarded. How can Senators who were not even in the 
Senate in 1999 be expected to evaluate the CTBT without the kind of 
serious consideration that occurred in 1999? This sense of the Senate 
should be called just what it is--a sham. The whole section of the bill 
reads as a throwback to the days of the nuclear freeze.

Apart from the hortatory verbiage in section 3122, it is clear the 
bill leaves us without the resources needed to develop a smaller and 
safer next generation nuclear stockpile and without resources needed to 
maintain our current stockpile.

In a fundamental contradiction, the cuts in the nuclear programs will 
actually increase the likelihood of needing to return to testing, the 
very option that would be permanently denied through the ratification 
of the CTBT.

Next, let me turn to missile defense. I am very troubled by what this 
bill does to undermine the substantial progress made in protecting this 
country from ballistic missile threats.

During the North Korean July 4 demonstration a year ago, which 
included firing the Taepodong 2 missile with the capability to reach as 
far as Alaska, the President of the United States had an operational 
defense missile system on alert for the first time in history. But this 
bill moves to deny that flexible authority that we have used to 
simultaneously research, test, and deploy an operational missile 
defense system in record time.

What is more, the bill significantly cuts funding for the 
construction of a European missile defense site, which will allow 
better defense against the Iranian threat, improved coverage of the 
United States, and extension of our missile defense system to provide 
coverage for Europe. This while we are in the middle of negotiations 
with Poland and the Czech Republic, while the Russians threaten a new 
arms race, and while Iran tests the West's resolve.

The subject of space threats. One of the most significant failures of 
this bill is it does nothing to defend the eyes and ears of this 
country's political, cultural, diplomatic, economic, and military 
might. Since the Chinese antisatellite, or ASAT, test earlier this 
year, very little has been done to defend our global constellations.

Modest requests from the administration to provide defensive 
capabilities, such as the space test bed, for which only $10 million 
was requested, have been zeroed out by both the House and Senate Armed 
Services Committee.

What is more, the bill inflicts significant cuts, some $55 million, 
to the space tracking and surveillance system, the next generation 
constellation of satellites that will allow improved tracking and 
targeting of ASAT weapons and midcourse ballistic missile.

Other space programs, for example, space situational awareness, 
received increases above the administration's request. And I applaud 
the committee for this, but I remind the Senate that this program only 
allows us to see a threat approaching our satellite constellation. It 
does nothing to enable us to defend against the threat. Have we learned 
nothing from recent experience?

Our enemies have proven they know better than to engage our armies 
and navies directly. They have observed our weaknesses and seek to 
exploit them through asymmetrical attacks. Blind us, and the best navy 
in the world can't repel an attack.

Who can dispute the fact that the $504 billion that we authorize for 
the Department of Defense in this bill would be virtually meaningless 
if we can't defend our satellite systems from attack? Our satellite 
system is the backbone of our entire national defense.

Finally, let me conclude by talking about what this bill does with 
respect to the terrorists with whom we are engaged in a life-and-death 
struggle.

The bill basically would return us to pre-9/11 days, to the law 
enforcement approach to terrorists.

We should think very carefully about the damage that would be wrought 
in a global war against these terrorists if we have to fight it by 
using the ill-conceived proposals in this bill. One would require us to 
give trials to every detainee we are holding in combat in


places such as Iraq and Afghanistan. Another would give them access to 
classified information; allow them to compel testimony of witnesses, 
including our own soldiers on the battlefield.

Have the authors of these provisions thought about where we will get 
the military lawyers needed to implement their criminal law ACLU 
approach to warfare? There are barely enough of them to provide legal 
services to our own troops. Have they thought about what our 
intelligence community will say to the foreign allied intelligence 
agencies, many of which are already concerned about sharing their 
sources and methods of intelligence with us; and who may very well 
completely cease sharing important intelligence information, knowing it 
will be shared with captured terrorist combatants? We know that more 
than 30 detainees have been released from our custody and have returned 
to waging war against the United States and its allies. What will the 
release of potentially thousands of detainees do to our national 
security?

The Senate must give very careful consideration to this dangerous 
return to the pre-9/11 notion of terrorism as a law enforcement 
problem. Terrorists have made no secret they are at war against our 
civilization. We ignore their warnings at our peril, and we will not 
prevail if we must deal with them as criminal defendants in American 
courts.

Madam President, I conclude by asking my colleagues to carefully 
consider the impact these several policies I have highlighted will have 
on our national security. Our first obligation is to provide for the 
common defense. Unfortunately, as it is presently written, this bill 
falls well short of that solemn duty, and it could get worse if some of 
the amendments proposed are adopted. I urge my colleagues to take very 
seriously our obligation to provide for the common defense. It begins 
by confining the policies in this bill to the traditional areas of 
defense preparedness. I hope we will be disciplined enough to do so.