---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `6d748491b7a21c07ed508f51414a81c9`
`Mr. BLUNT — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the House Republican standards 
on earmarks, I am submitting the following information regarding 
earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326, The Defense Appropriations 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt

Priority Name: Command & Control Service Level Management (C2SLM)

Authorized Amount: $4 million

Account: Global Command And Control System

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Accenture National Security Services

Address of Requesting Entity: 407 S Pennsylvania Ave # 201, Joplin, 
MO 64801

Description of Request: C2SLM addresses the articulated needs by the 
warfighter in both the short and long-term to deliver critical 
information across a low-bandwidth enterprise while providing the 
ability to manage services. It will be able to be deployed on top of 
legacy C2 systems, as well as the envisioned C2 systems of the future. 
In addition, this technology is being explored to provide the Secretary 
of the Air Force with the ability to finally integrate command and 
control data with financial data.

The ability to distribute services and manage them for the entire 
military enterprise is critical to achieving today's and tomorrow's 
mission. C2SLM, while leveraging the work done by the Network-Centric 
Enterprise Services (NCES) program, views the enterprise from the 
warfighters' perspective, not the networking perspective. C2SLM pushes 
the military enterprises capability to the edges and to the warfighter. 
C2SLM will enable our military to respond to the agility of our 
opponent by building agility and flexibility into our technology. C2SLM 
has been selected by the Pentagon to be the early pathfinder for the A-
Staff, which will lead to use by non-AOC command and control for COCOMs 
and NAFs.

Priority Name: Lithium Ion Storage Advancement for Aircraft 
Applications

Authorized Amount: $2.5 million

Account: Force Protection Applied Research

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: EaglePicher Technologies

Address of Requesting Entity: 1215 W B St, Joplin, MO 64801

Description of Request: This funding will be used toward continued 
advancement in Lithium Ion storage. Protection of Li-Ion power systems 
is absolutely necessary on all current


chemistries to prevent catastrophic failures due to over charge, over 
discharge and temperature excursions. In conjunction with the necessary 
safety aspects of the power system, a management function is necessary 
to achieve maximum performance. Maximum performance is achieved by 
monitoring individual cell voltages, temperature and currents and using 
this information to control each cell's charging based on environments. 
By managing the system at the cell level, premature power system 
degradation and failure can be greatly reduced. This translates into 
reduced maintenance costs, increased battery life, increased 
performance and overall increased safety. The use of taxpayer funds is 
justified because the results from advancements in overall safety and 
chemistry not only provide safety for aircraft applications but can 
also be transitioned to the commercial, industrial, military as well as 
consumer product industries. The next generation of energy storage can 
be achieved. In addition, by leveraging the results from efforts on 
current projects, advancements toward new technologies can be realized 
sooner. These batteries have significant weight and power density 
advantages over legacy technologies that are currently in use.

Priority Name: Long-Loiter, Load Bearing Antenna Platform for 
Pervasive Airborne Intelligence

Authorized Amount: $5 million

Account: Aerospace Technology Dev/Demo

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University/QinetiQ 
North America

Address of Requesting Entity: 901 S National Ave, Springfield, MO 
65804

Description of Request: This funding will be used toward a 
revolutionary approach to the realization of truly load bearing antenna 
arrays. In addition to load bearing antennas, the DF hardware will be 
structurally integrated such that weight is minimized. DF algorithms 
have been developed and modifications for the severe conditions in 
Afghanistan will be used as a baseline. The use of taxpayer funds is 
justified because this new, affordable, antenna platform will 
significantly increase the DF capabilities of the Zephyr platform. This 
will enable rapid deployment and affordable assets in theater, adding 
significantly to the nation's assets.

Priority Name: Self-Decontaminating Polymer System for Chemical and 
Biological Weapons Systems

Authorized Amount: $3.5 million

Account: Chemical And Biological Defense Program

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University/Lumimove 
d/b/a Crosslink

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N Boonville, Springfield, MO 65806

Description of Request: This funding will be used to continue 
development of an on-demand, self-generating and self-renewing polymer-
based decontamination system that produces, in real time, activated 
hydrogen peroxide for the destruction of chemical and biological 
warfare agents on fabrics for collective and individual protection 
applications. Hydrogen peroxide is known to be an effective broad 
spectrum decontamination agent for both chemical and biological warfare 
agents. The system will interface with state-of-the art chemical and 
biological stand-off sensors currently deployed in theater and will 
react to signals generated by such sensors to initiate the production 
of the activated hydrogen peroxide. Such a system will reduce the 
logistic burden associated with maintaining product stores in theater 
and the continuous monitoring of the product due to loss of 
effectiveness.
