# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `6d79ce49a7413ac6b21f0d2ad563830e`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the rule 
governing the debate of H.R. 1591, ''U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' 
Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.'' There is no more important issue 
facing the Congress, the President, and the American people than the 
war in Iraq. It is a subject upon which no one is indifferent, least of 
all members of Congress. Beginning with the distinguished gentleman 
from Pennsylvania, Mr. Murtha, many good ideas have been advanced by 
members of Congress to bring to a successful conclusion the American 
military engagement in Iraq.

It is in that spirit that I commend the leadership and the Chairwoman 
of the Rules Committee, Ms. Slaughter, for their patient and careful 
crafting of the Iraq Emergency Supplemental that will come before us 
later today. I support this rule and I support the supplemental because 
I support our magnificent servicemen and women in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, nearly every decision reached by a legislative body is a 
product of compromise. The rule and bill before us are no different. If 
it was left solely to us, any of us could no doubt add or subtract 
provisions which we think would improve the bill. For example, I 
offered four amendments to H.R. 1591. Let me describe them.
















Amendment No. 1


Jackson Lee Amendment No. 1 terminates the authority granted by 
Congress to the President in the 2002 Authorization for the Use of 
Military Force in Iraq. The resolution is terminated because 
the objectives for which the authorization was granted have all been 
achieved. Let me explain.


Congress authorized the President to use military force against Iraq 
to achieve the following objectives:

1. to disarm Iraq of any weapons of mass destruction that could 
threaten the security of the United States and international peace in 
the Persian Gulf region;

2. to change the Iraqi regime so that Saddam Hussein and his Baathist 
party no longer posed a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors;

3. to bring to justice any members of al Qaeda known or found to be 
in Iraq bearing responsibility for the attacks on the United States, 
its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on 
September 11, 2001;

4. to ensure that the regime of Saddam Hussein would not provide 
weapons of mass destruction to international terrorists, including al 
Qaeda; and

5. to enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council 
resolutions regarding Iraq.

Thanks to the skill and valor of the Armed Forces of the United 
States we now know for certain that Iraq does not possess weapons of 
mass destruction. Thanks to the tenacity and heroism of American 
troops, Saddam Hussein was deposed, captured, and dealt with by the 
Iraqi people in such a way that neither he nor his Baathist Party will 
ever again pose a threat to the people of Iraq or its neighbors in the 
region. Nor will the regime ever acquire and provide weapons of mass 
destruction to international terrorists.

Third, the American military has caught or killed virtually every 
member of al Qaeda in Iraq remotely responsible for the 9-11 attack on 
our country. Last, all relevant U.N. resolutions relating to Iraq have 
been enforced.

In other words, every objective for which the use of force in Iraq 
was authorized by the 2002 resolution has been achieved, most with 
spectacular success thanks to the professionalism and superior skill of 
our service men and women. The point of my amendment was to recognize, 
acknowledge, and honor this fact.
















Amendment No. 2


The Armed Forces of the United States have performed magnificently. 
They won the war they were sent to fight. Their civilian leadership has 
not succeeded in winning the peace. Rather than undertaking a misguided 
and futile surge in troops, the United States should surge 
diplomatically and politically.

That is why Jackson Lee Amendment No. 2 called for the creation and 
appointment of a high-level Special Envoy for National and Political 
Reconciliation in Iraq (SENPRI) to launch a new offensive on the 
diplomatic front. This Special Envoy--who would be an individual of the 
stature of former Secretary of State Colin Powell, Madeleine Albright, 
or James Baker--would be commissioned to undertake the peaceful 
reconciliation of the major stakeholders in a free and democratic Iraq, 
particularly the Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds.


The SENPRI shall meet with any and all such persons, organizations, 
and entities, and make such recommendations as he deems necessary and 
expedient for bringing about national and political reconciliation in 
Iraq, including recommending the assistance of a bona fide 
international peacekeeping force where necessary.

A real diplomatic surge requires a full-court press designed to 
engage all six of Iraq's neighbors--Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Saudi 
Arabia, and Kuwait--more constructively in stabilizing Iraq. These 
countries are already involved in a bilateral, self-interested but 
disorganized way.

As the Iraq Study Group report makes clear, none of these countries 
wants to live with an Iraq that, after our redeployment, becomes a 
failed state or a humanitarian catastrophe that could become a haven 
for terrorists or a hemorrhage of millions more refugees streaming into 
their countries. To avoid this catastrophe, there needs to be national 
reconciliation between the contending factions in Iraq. A Special Envoy 
dedicated to achieving this goal would help a great deal in bringing 
about this reconciliation.
















Amendment No. 3


Mr. Speaker, as I have stated, the Armed Forces of the United States 
have performed magnificently in Operation Iraqi Freedom. This fact is 
deserving of effusive praise and explicit acknowledgment in H.R. 1591. 
My third amendment did this.

The brave servicemen and women of the United States toppled the 
repressive Baathist regime, deposed one of history's greatest tyrants 
and gave the Iraqi people the chance to draft their own constitution, 
hold their own free elections, establish their own government, and 
build a future of peace and prosperity for themselves and their 
posterity.

But the cost of America's magnificent gift to the people of Iraq has 
been high. It has been paid for with the lives of more than 3,000 
service members and the limbs of countless thousands of other. It has 
been paid for with the hard-earned tax dollars of the families of 
America.


The cost to the United States has also been high regarding the new 
and neglected needs of the American people. Operation Iraqi Freedom has 
exacerbated the backlog in Veterans Administration health care facility 
maintenance; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical 
treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and 
exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training and readiness 
requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United 
States Armed Forces. My amendment acknowledged the sacrifices made by, 
and the debt of gratitude, we and the Iraqi people owe to Armed Forces 
of the United States.
















Amendment No. 4


Last, Jackson Lee Amendment No. 4, changed the troop reference date 
for redeployment set forth in section 1904 from March 1, 2008, to 
December 31, 2007. What this means, Mr. Speaker, is that the Government 
of Iraq will have had more than three years since the United States 
turned over sovereignty to establish a sustainable government with 
secure borders that can protect its people. If the allied forces could 
win WorId War II


in less than four years, certainly that is enough time for the 
Government of Iraq to provide for the security of its people, with the 
substantial assistance of the United States.

But Mr. Speaker, we ought not let the perfect become the enemy of the 
good. The emergency supplemental may not be perfect but it is better--
far better--than any legislation relating to the war in Iraq that has 
ever been brought to the floor for a vote.

For the first time, Mr. Speaker, the Congress can go on record 
against an open-ended war whose goal line is always moving. The vote 
today will put the House on record as squarely against the Bush 
Administration's policy of looking the other way while the Iraqi 
government fails to govern a country worthy of a free people and with 
as much commitment and dedication to the security and happiness of its 
citizens and has been shown by the heroic American servicemen and women 
who risked their lives and, in the case of over 3,000 fallen heroes, 
lost their lives to win for the Iraqi people the chance to draft their 
own constitution, hold their own free elections, establish their own 
government, and build a future of peace and prosperity for themselves 
and their posterity.

But the cost of America's magnificent gift to the people of Iraq has 
been high. It has been paid for with the lives of more than 3,000 
service members and the limbs of countless thousands of others. It has 
been paid for with the hard-earned tax dollars of the families of 
America.

The cost to the United States has also been high regarding the new 
and neglected needs of the American people. Operation Iraqi Freedom has 
exacerbated the backlog in Veterans Administration health care facility 
maintenance; placed an undue strain on the delivery of medical 
treatment and rehabilitative services for current and new veterans; and 
exacted a heavy toll on the equipment, training and readiness 
requirements, and the families of the men and women of the United 
States Armed Forces.

The emergency supplemental acknowledges the sacrifices made by, and 
the debt of gratitude, we and the Iraqi people owe to Armed Forces of 
the United States. More than that, it makes a substantial down payment 
on that debt by providing substantial increases in funding for our 
troops. For example, the supplemental provides $2.8 billion for defense 
health care, which is $1.7 billion above the President's request. 
Additionally, another $1.7 billion is provided to address the 
maintenance backlog at VA health care facilities. We provide $2.5 
billion to ensure that our troops are properly equipped and trained.

Because after all, when American troops are sent into harm's way, 
America has an obligation to do all it can to minimize the risk of harm 
to the troops. That is why I am pleased the bill directs the President 
to adhere to current military guidelines for unit readiness, time 
between deployments, and meeting benchmarks and ending our involvement 
in Iraq's civil war.

Although the bill may not be the best I might have hoped for, I have 
concluded that it is the best that can be achieved at this time, this 
moment in history. I support the rule and the bill because I believe it 
represents a change of course and a new direction in our policy on 
Iraq. This bill will place us on the road that will reunite our troops 
with their families and bring them home with honor and success. I urge 
all members to support the rule and the bill.