---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `6d8480160c8e208e0bd8ffded9e48d71`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this bill and our 
Nation's veterans. Their service and sacrifice for our country is 
honorable and today this body will properly honor them by ensuring 
greater resources for their care and wellbeing. Congress has responded 
appropriately by increasing funding by $2.9 billion above the 
President's request.

This bill responds to the needs of our returning troops from Iraq and 
Afghanistan by including $3.8 billion for mental health resources to 
provide treatment for post traumatic stress syndrome and traumatic 
brain injuries. It includes $300 million above the President's request 
for maintaining VA medical facilities. Access to these facilities and 
ensuring their proper upkeep has a positive impact on our communities 
and is imperative to serving the needs of our veterans. This bill 
increases enrollment in VA medical care for all veterans, including 
those on a limited income, by 10 percent. To help veterans in rural 
areas that must travel to get needed health care, the mileage 
reimbursement has been increased from 28.5 cents to 41.5 cents.

I therefore support this bill. These improvements to our VA system 
will have a beneficial impact on our veterans and move our Nation in 
the direction of providing them with the care they need and deserve.

However, this bill includes funding for military construction 
projects for military operations in Afghanistan. The Bagram Air Base is 
the main base for the Combined Forces Air Component Command, CFACC. 
Funds from this bill will be used to fortify temporary buildings, 
expand refueling capability and build an aircraft maintenance hangar at 
Bagram. As the U.S. expands and improves military facilities in 
Afghanistan, the likelihood that our troops will remain in the region 
increases.

Including these funds, which keep our troops in harms way, in a bill 
meant to support our veterans is an affront to our Nation's veterans 
and to the level of transparency our government should maintain.