---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.J. RES. 45,  INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `6d999e14638d54d914da5cb0deb37afd`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 4 February 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the resolution provides for consideration of the 
Senate amendment to H.J. Res. 45, the debt limit and statutory PAYGO 
resolution. The rule makes in order a motion offered by the majority 
leader or a designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment. The 
rule waives all points of order against the motion except those arising 
under clause 10 of House rule XXI and provides 1 hour of debate on the 
motion. The rule divides the question between concurring in the matter 
preceding title I of the Senate amendment and concurring in titles I 
and II of the amendment. The first portion of the question shall be 
considered as adopted. If the second portion fails, then the House will 
be considered to have made no disposition of the Senate amendment.

Madam Speaker, this vote is both historic and difficult. It is 
historic because it is reinstating the pay-as-you-go law, or PAYGO. 
This is one tool in the effort to reduce the deficit and return fiscal 
common sense back to our budget. And it is difficult because this 
resolution includes a $1.9 trillion increase in the debt limit.

Now, let me begin with the debt limit. None of us are eager to 
increase the debt limit. But we have a responsibility to take action. 
The Treasury Department has informed Congress that the United States 
will reach the current statutory limit on the national debt on February 
11. That is next Thursday. If the debt limit is not increased before 
that date, Treasury will not be able to meet the obligations of the 
U.S. Government.

Simply, Madam Speaker, if we don't act, then we will default. Now, I 
can't think of a more reckless or irresponsible act. Defaulting is not 
an option. If the United States defaults, investors will lose 
confidence that the U.S. will honor its debts in the future. They would 
likely demand higher interest rates to compensate for the higher risk 
of purchasing Treasury securities. And this would increase the cost of 
Federal borrowing, result in even greater budget deficits, and require 
higher taxes and fewer government services. A greater portion of U.S. 
wealth would be transferred to overseas creditors, to China, India, and 
Saudi Arabia. And it is also possible that those creditors would demand 
that the U.S. borrow in other currencies rather than dollars, putting 
in peril the very value and stability of the American dollar.

It is clear that the responsible course of action is to raise the 
debt limit. It is also clear that we are in this position because of 
the policies that have been implemented over the past decade. Ten years 
ago, Madam Speaker, we had a budget surplus. Since then, our country 
was attacked and the worst recession in our lifetimes took a severe 
economic toll on our Nation's economy. But we also had two wars that 
were unpaid for, tax cuts, mostly for the wealthy, that were unpaid 
for, and a prescription drug benefit that was unpaid for. Yes, 
Republicans and Democrats have had to increase the debt limit because 
of these policies and events. And unfortunately, we have to do it again 
today.

Now, I know there will be those who want to use this vote as a way to 
demagogue this issue. There will be those on my side of the aisle who 
will detail how the policies of the last 8 years put us in this 
position, and there will be those who use this debate to claim that the 
recession is the fault of the Democrats. We can have that debate, and 
we will have that debate. But at the end of the day, Madam Speaker, it 
is my hope that nobody in this Chamber would put our Nation at such 
financial and economic risk simply because of politics.

My friend from Massachusetts and my colleague, Congressman Richard 
Neal, said it best in the Rules Committee last night: ''If you voted to 
go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan, if you voted for the tax cuts that 
went mostly to the wealthiest in this country, or if you voted for the 
Recovery Act, then you have to vote to raise the debt ceiling.'' Simply 
put, the American people want us to solve our Nation's problems. And 
increasing the debt limit is the responsible action. But it doesn't 
address the underlying problem. And that is the problem of the deficit.

That is where statutory PAYGO comes in. Statutory PAYGO requires all 
new policies be offset. That means paid for. In plain English, we have 
to pay for what we buy. While it is not the only step we can take, this 
is a solid step towards fiscal discipline.

Now, why is PAYGO so important? It is important because our fiscal 
health and long-term economic prosperity depend upon it. We must find a 
balance between short-term deficit spending to speed along our economic 
recovery with longer-term fiscal discipline.

Dick Cheney, Madam Speaker, famously said that deficits don't matter. 
Well, I believe that they do matter, and I am glad to hear that my 
Republican friends now agree with Democrats that deficits do matter. I 
trust that at the end of the day they will vote that way too. But 
whether you vote for this resolution or not, you must at least admit 
that President Obama and the Democrats are facing this problem head-on. 
We are making sure we responsibly


meet our financial obligations. We are instituting PAYGO so that we pay 
for the programs that we are funding. And we expect President Obama to 
formalize a debt commission soon to make other recommendations to bring 
down our debt. These are important steps, and these are real steps.

I urge my colleagues to do the right thing, to vote for this rule and 
this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.

