---
---

# None
## `6da054e06883c30b477b27ad9a20ecd8`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I am very pleased to be 
able to kick off what I hope will be a very interesting hour. Every 
week we try to get together at least once as members of the 30-
Something Working Group at the pleasure of the Speaker of the House to 
talk about some of the most pressing issues, not only to this country 
at large, but in particular to the young people of this country. I 
appreciate the Speaker giving us this opportunity.

We are hopefully going to be joined today by some of the veteran 30-
Something Members, but we are going to kick today off with Mr. Altmire 
of Pennsylvania and myself and our special guest today from New 
Hampshire, young-at-heart Paul Hodes.

Madam Speaker, I think the gentleman from Georgia is right on one 
point at least, that this is a sobering week here in the halls of 
Congress. We have had a lot of bad news this week. We have mourned the 
death of far too many young people at Virginia Tech. We have mourned 
the loss of one of our own here on the House floor. We are wrapping up 
a month in which we have seen 86 more soldiers die on the battlefields 
of Iraq amidst a growing civil war, a war now that has cost over 3,300 
lives, 24,000 wounded and $379 billion spent.

Our friend who just gave the final 5-minute speech on the other side 
of the aisle suggested that the silence was deafening from the 
Democratic side tonight in this Chamber. Well, we were talking all day. 
We were talking last week and the week before. There was no silence on 
this side of the aisle. For the first time, for the first time, this 
Congress picked its head up out of the sand to realize what is really 
happening over in Iraq.

You can talk all you want about failure and defeat and victory, but 
you have got to be a little bit clear about what we are talking about 
over there, because maybe we entered into a fight with an army 
commanded by Saddam Hussein, but we have now got ourselves mired in 
what is a civil war.

Madam Speaker, I got the chance, along with five other Members of 
this body, three Republicans, three Democrats, to go over to Iraq and 
Afghanistan a few weeks ago, and we asked the generals on the ground a 
very simple question: Of all of the fire that you find yourselves in 
the middle of on the streets of Baghdad, tell us what percentage of 
that which is directed at U.S. forces is a fight from insurgents 
directly against the United States, and tell us what percentage of that 
fire is sectarian strife, Sunnis and Shia fighting each other.

I have to tell you, listening to the other side, you would have no 
clue that the answer was 90 percent. Ninety percent of the fire 
directed at U.S. forces is simply by virtue of us being in the middle 
of what has become a civil war there.

So you can continue to bury your heads in the sand while we talk 
about this tonight, but we choose not to. We chose to side with the 
American people, 60 percent of whom say unequivocally that they want a 
timetable to bring our troops home. We sided with the Iraq Study Group, 
some of our top foreign policy leaders in this country, Republicans and 
Democrats, who unanimously stood up to say it is time to redeploy our 
forces. We stood with some of the brightest and most courageous 
military generals.

We have come to the position that it is de rigueur for generals to 
speak out against the war, because it seems that there is a new one 
coming out and talking about the tragedy of this war every day. Well, 
this didn't happen up until the Iraq conflict. You have never seen this 
number of former military men standing up and suggesting we need to set 
a different course.

So maybe this is a little bit of a quiet room tonight after a very 
long day, but, yes this was a loud and boisterous hall earlier tonight, 
because for the first time in a long time, this Congress stood up and 
excerpted the will of the American people.

Before I kick it over to Mr. Altmire and Mr. Hodes, let me just 
quickly talk about what we did here today.

You want to talk about supporting the troops. Let's talk about the 
fact that this bill had every dollar that the President asked for in 
it, and more. And more. We put in more money to make sure that every 
single troop has the equipment, the protection, the armor that they 
need.

This bill has $1.7 billion in additional money beyond what the 
President asked for for veterans, $1.7 billion beyond what the 
President asked for for healthcare for our existing armed forces.

You want to talk about supporting the troops, then you better look at 
the words and the numbers in this bill, balls what the President 
wanted, he got, and we put more on top of it to


make sure that every single soldier is taken care of on the 
battlefield, and when they return to this country, they are not just 
given average healthcare, but they are given the gold standard of 
healthcare when they come back here.


What we did on that bill was for the first time suggest that this 
commitment cannot be open-ended. For Mr. Hodes and Mr. Altmire and 
myself, we have gotten the opportunity over the last few weeks to go 
back and talk to our constituents, and you are having to turn over a 
bunch of different rocks as time goes on to find people who are still 
willing to say that we should have absolutely no end to our commitment 
there. That we should do virtually nothing to force the Iraqis to stand 
up for themselves.

Let me give you one important quote from this week. Folks on the 
other side of the aisle will say that this timetable is somehow harming 
our efforts there. They maybe should speak to our own Secretary of 
Defense, who just this week said this: ''The strong feelings expressed 
in the Congress about the timetable probably have had a positive impact 
in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended 
commitment.''

Our own Secretary of Defense, the spokesman on matters of war for 
this President, says that our discussion here about ending our open-
ended commitment, about forcing the Iraqis to stand up for themselves, 
has had a positive effect. So to our friends on the other side of the 
aisle, they might want to check with the administration before they 
cast aspersions on the work that we are doing here.

The last thing to say. The last thing to say. We better put some 
definition on what war we are fighting here. I know Mr. Hodes wants to 
say something about this as well. This is not a war for us that needs 
to be fought between two sectarian parties in Iraq. This is a war on 
the people that attacked this country. Maybe some people on the other 
side of the aisle haven't noticed, but the people that attacked this 
country came from Afghanistan, a country that we have left behind.

We had a chance to visit Afghanistan just a few months ago, and we 
found that the Taliban is in a resurgence there. We found that the new 
power player in the Middle East, Iran, is starting to meddle in the 
affairs of Afghanistan, in part because we haven't put the money and 
the troops and the resources and the infrastructure dollars behind our 
effort there to make sure that it is a self-governing country.

We have got fights all over the globe that this country needs to be a 
part of if we really want to talk about making this country safe. So 
when we talk about redeployment, we mean it. It is not just about 
withdrawal. It is not just about taking every single troop who is over 
there and bringing them home to their families. We would love to do 
that. There is not a single one of us who hasn't spent an amount of 
time with the National Guard and the Reserve troops that have been so 
heavily stressed by these multiple deployments. There is not one of us 
who has not sat with active duty families who have seen their family 
members deployed once, twice, three times, over to Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

We would love to bring every single one of them home. But we know 
that the reality of this new world order is that we have got to have a 
much more global view. We have got to make sure that we have the troops 
necessary to be committed all over the globe, to make sure that we 
recognize how broad the threat to this country is today.

That is not what we are doing right now. That is not what we are 
doing. In fact, what we have done is created a safe haven for 
terrorists. We have created what our own intelligence community calls 
the cause celebre for the Islamic extremist movement in this world, to 
find shelter in Iraq, to breed, to train, and then to present an even 
greater threat to this country.

So, yes, Madam Speaker, there was a little bit of celebration on this 
side of the aisle when we passed this bill tonight. Not because this 
isn't the most serious subject that this House will face over the next 
2 years. It certainly is. We take that as a grave responsibility that 
it so deserves. But because it is about time that we picked our heads 
up out of the sand and said in our gut, in our conscience, we cannot 
allow our military forces to continue to be the referee of a civil war. 
And in our gut and in our conscience and in our head we know that this 
fight is broader than just what happens on the streets of Baghdad. This 
is a global fight against the people that took us on, and by 
redeploying those forces, by doing the right things by the soldiers who 
are on the ground in the middle of this civil war, by making a 
commitment as strong as ever to our troops and to our veterans, we 
finally, we finally, started imposing a foreign policy that will 
guarantee the security of this country, not just for the next week or 
the next month, but decades and hopefully centuries.

Madam Speaker, I would like at this point to yield, if I could, to a 
good friend and one of our new 30-Somethings, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania, Mr. Altmire.

