# None
## `6db1fe4cbf48273da68e8946956568ca`
`Mr. WEBB — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to this bill but in 
support of the concepts that have motivated it. I think the Senator 
from Wisconsin fully understands this. We have discussed this.

I wanted to add my comments with that perspective in mind, because I 
do not agree with a lot of the comments coming from the other side of 
the aisle with respect to why this amendment should be defeated.

I cannot support personally an amendment that involves an 
entrenchment on an appropriations measure. I do not believe the best 
way for us to address this situation is to cut off funds or to 
stipulate a series of conditions that might be overinclusive or 
underinclusive, depending on the situation on the ground in Iraq.

But at the same time, I strongly disagree with the notion that a 
withdrawal from Iraq at this time is premature. I believe that with the 
right national leadership, first, we never should have gone into Iraq, 
but, secondly, that we could have begun a withdrawal with the right 
national strategy more than 4 years ago.

What we have been engaged in since shortly after the invasion is an 
occupation, not a war. It has been a military holding action. In the 
context of history, a military holding action takes place in order to 
enable the political process and, unfortunately, we have not seen that 
sort of political leadership from this administration. That is a 
totally different concept than the one that seems to make it into our 
debates here.

I have written a lot of books in my life. I made my living before I 
came to the Senate writing histories and novels. There were many times 
when I watched this debate that I would think about how this is going 
to look through the prism of history. How are people going to look back 
at this period of years in terms of how our national leaders were 
conducting themselves?

One thought that sticks in my mind is that we tend, when we debate 
Iraq, to look at this issue almost as if Iraq was an island in the 
middle of an ocean, disconnected from the rest of the region or even 
the rest of the world. That is ironically how we ended up in Iraq in 
the first place, because once we started debating whether we would go 
into Iraq, we changed from a debate about the dangers of international 
terrorism and started focusing more and more specifically simply on 
Saddam Hussein, on the conditions inside Iraq, which obviously was a 
country that was not even directly threatening us. Most of us sitting 
on the outside who had years of experience in national security could 
see that, even as the debate narrowed into Iraq rather than 
international terrorism.

We are doing it again. We are doing it again when we talk about the 
success or failure of the surge or where we should go from here with 
respect to this block or that block or this city or that city or this 
specific unit of the military. We have fallen into what could be called 
a double strategic mousetrap. On the one hand, we have the greatest 
maneuver forces in the world bogged down, occupying cities in one 
country that was not even threatening us, while the people we are 
supposed to be going after, the forces of international terrorism, know 
no international boundaries, work the seams of international law, and 
are able to maneuver at will. We are seeing that clearly.

Before I went to Iraq in November, I was getting briefings. The 
comments and the briefings from the Pentagon were that terrorism 
activity had been reduced inside Iraq. I mentioned I have been doing 
this for 40 years, from the time I was a young marine. If I were the 
forces of international terrorism, I don't think I would be in Anbar 
Province right now either. I think I would be heading to Afghanistan 
and Pakistan. That suggestion was basically dismissed in the briefings. 
Within a few weeks, Benazir Bhutto was assassinated by al-Qaida, and we 
are seeing heightened activity in Afghanistan such as, less than a week 
ago a suicide bombing at a dog fight near Kandahar, where more than 100 
people were killed by al-Qaida. That is what a strategic mousetrap is.

When you are going up against people who know what they are doing and 
who are very dedicated to it, you get yourself bogged down in one spot 
where you can't get out, and then they have the maneuverability.

The second strategic mousetrap we can clearly see involves how we are 
addressing the rest of the world. In terms of our military posture, we 
have burned out our military. We are not focusing properly on the 
strategic issues facing us globally, particularly the situation that we 
face with an ever-evolving China, and the need to regrow our Navy. And 
our national economy is going into a tailspin.

When I look at this region, I see a region in chaos. We can talk 
about whether you can go to the market in Baghdad. Wherever the U.S. 
military has been sent, it has done its job historically. I had the 
honor of serving in Vietnam. On the 20th anniversary of the fall of 
Vietnam, the Communist government admitted that it lost 1.4 million 
soldiers dead on the battlefield; this illusive guerilla force, 1.4 
million soldiers dead. We did our job. That doesn't address the larger 
issues in which the military performs its job and doesn't address that 
issue in Iraq today either.

We are very proud of what our military has done. I am proud of my 
son. He served as an enlisted Infantry marine in Ramadi in some of the 
worst fighting. But this region is in turmoil from Lebanon to Pakistan. 
Anyone who has been involved in these issues intimately understands 
that. People are betting against us, not in terms of our military 
operations but as a leading nation.

When we were preparing to go into Iraq, it cost $24 for a barrel of 
oil. Yesterday the market closed above $101 for


a barrel of oil. When we were getting ready to go into Iraq, as I 
recall, gold was less than $300 an ounce. It is up almost at $1,000 an 
ounce today. The dollar is in jeopardy. Our budgets are in deficits. 
Our infrastructure is diminishing to the point that we have to worry 
about whether we can be a leading nation in terms of technology, the 
sorts of things that have always made us great--roads, bridges. All of 
these issues do tie together. Even when we start arguing about how this 
surge has affected the conditions inside Iraq, if we are going to be 
honest, if we are going to look at the situation as it really is rather 
than simply as one political side or another wants to make it, we have 
a lot going on in Iraq, a lot of moving pieces that don't exactly add 
up to the possibility of great success in the near term.

I have heard people from General Petraeus to people on the other side 
talk about how the surge is responsible for the period of decreased 
activity in Al Anbar, around Ramadi. That began before the surge was 
announced. There were two reasons for that. One, al-Qaida overplayed 
its hand there. The Sunnis made a deal with our side. The Sunni 
insurgency made a deal with our side and they hated al-Qaida more than 
they hate us. We don't know how long this is going to last. They don't 
like an occupying force.

The second is, al-Qaida is pretty smart. They are fluid. They are 
mobile while we are tied down. If you go up to the Kurdish areas, which 
have been sort of the bulwark of our strength in terms of relations, we 
see that the Turkish parliament has approved military activity by their 
military inside Iraq. They have begun an incursion more than a week ago 
where they have been operating inside northern Iraq. Imagine what the 
other side would be saying right now if the Iranians were conducting 
military activities inside Iraq. We have a region that has been filled 
with chaos from refugees, external refugees, internal refugees, by some 
accounts more than 30 percent of pre-Iraq war population refugees, 
either outside the country, heavily burdening Syria--by the way, more 
than a million refugees in Syria--but also inside. Eighty percent of 
those internal refugees in Iraq right now are women and children.


We need to be able to address this honestly, and we need to be able 
to agree that the way out of this isn't simply through the performance 
of our military. It is that we need national leadership that will put a 
formula together so that we can remove our military. There is no true 
strategy if you cannot articulate an end point. When you look at it, 
one of the things I keep going back to is what General Dwight 
Eisenhower said in the dark days of the Korean war when we were stuck 
in a stalemate, when he was thinking about running for President and 
then running for President. One might compare this with comments we 
hear from the present administration. He said:




 [The Korean War] was never inevitable, it was never 


 inescapable. . . . When the enemy struck, on that June day of 


 1950, what did America do? It did what it always has done in 


 all its times of peril. It appealed to the heroism of its 


 youth. . . . The answer to that appeal has been what any 


 American knew it would be. It has been sheer valor on all the 


 Korean mountainsides that, each day, bear fresh scars of new 


 graves. Now--in this anxious autumn--from these heroic men 


 there comes back an answering appeal. It is no whine, no 


 whimpering plea. It is a question that addresses itself to 


 simple reason. It asks: Where do we go from here? When comes 


 the end? Is there an end? These questions touch all of us. 


 They demand truthful answers. Neither glib promises nor glib 


 excuses will serve. They would be no better than the glib 


 prophecies that brought us to this pass. . . . The first task 


 of a new Administration will be to review and re-examine 


 every course of action open to us with one goal in view: To 


 bring the Korean War to an early and honorable end.


I suggest that is the prospect that faces all of us. On what do we 
need to be focusing? I agree, by the way, that this is not something 
that is going to get us very far in the next couple of days, other than 
to air our concerns. We need to be getting a GI bill for the people who 
have been serving since 9/11. I would invite people from the other side 
of the aisle to support this. We keep calling these people the next 
greatest generation. They deserve a GI bill at the same level of those 
who served during World War II when they got all tuition paid for, 
books bought for them, and a monthly stipend. I introduced that bill my 
first day as a Senator last year. We have more than 30 cosponsors. 
Let's come together. Let's make that happen. Let's give these people 
the first-class future they deserve.

We need to focus on the agreement that is now being negotiated 
between this administration and the Maliki government, where they are 
saying they will consult with the Congress. This type of long-term 
agreement, going into security issues, is, in fact, a treaty, no matter 
what we call it. It is a treaty that they are negotiating, and we in 
the Senate should advise and consent on that. We need to focus on the 
wartime contracting commission that just became law where we can root 
out fraud, waste, and abuse, the billions of dollars of no-bid and 
instant contracts that were put into Iraq from 2003 forward. In other 
words, let's create the environment where we can get the right kind of 
diplomatic solution and remove our combat troops from Iraq. Let's focus 
on the future.

I yield the floor.