# HOUSTON, TEXAS, PROPERTY CONVEYANCE
## `6db52c0e3de651d28e0f408f16c37bdc`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 14 December 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the chairwoman of 
the subcommittee, first of all, for her kind generosity and the 
excellent staff of the chairperson, and as well my friend and my good 
friend from Florida, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, who is the ranking 
member of this committee, for the wisdom and for their staff's 
excellent work that has generated relief for hardworking veterans.

In one sense, the Texas Military Museum, it speaks to individuals who 
have found themselves now living in the State of Texas. But these are 
heroes that served the Nation, proudly so, and they welcome the Nation 
to come and to celebrate the idea of a military museum. I don't think 
we can have enough of these facilities. And so I am very grateful that 
this nonprofit institution, in the wisdom of my bipartisan cosponsors, 
of which I want to express deep and abiding appreciation as I indicated 
to the ranking member for his sponsorship and to the chairwoman for her 
leadership, because it is preserving the honor and the memory of 
citizens who served defending the United States' freedom and liberty, 
and, as well, we emphasize, serving the entire country.

This will include all branches of the Armed Forces, including the 
Reserves and the National Guard. This will allow these individuals who 
have nurtured and cared for military vehicles and other equipment for 
display since the beginning of their operations, critical components of 
the military history. These individuals, these soldiers have restored 
and preserved this military equipment and memorabilia with enduring 
kindness, volunteerism; and they have stood fast just like they stood 
fast on the battlefield on behalf of the Nation.

The museum has had to turn down historic military equipment for 
display and restoration given their space limitations, so this museum 
will in essence be an asset for the American people.

What will it do? In addition to saying thank you to veterans, to 
those who have served, it will be a benefit to the community, schools, 
as well as veterans and military-related groups. It will teach the 
children to value a soldier, both old and young, both active and 
nonactive. It will teach them to understand what sacrifice is all 
about. It will explain to them, these tough vehicles that children 
rarely see, what they mean to their freedom. The Military Museum 
provides educational programs. You can't imagine the different schools 
that are eager to see them. Live reenactments from military personnel, 
interactive exhibits, provide internships to military history and 
preservation, as well as research databases available for educational 
and historical institutions and the public.

I might deviate just for a moment. A fallen hero that all of us 
admired, Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, took his arms of peace. He was 
of course the envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan, where a war is raging 
in Afghanistan. What I would say to you is that he understood the 
partnership and the work that has to be done with the military.

That is why this museum is so important. They work together for 
peace, diplomacy and peace. It is enormously important that we provide 
an opportunity for these to be recognized.

Now, we are grateful that the General Services Administration has a 
light bulb on, and we thank those who have recognized the fact, how 
important it is to be able to fix this, if you will. That is what we 
are doing.



But we are fixing it for the right reasons. This will be conveyed for 
market value, the title and interest to the benefit of the United 
States of America. Therefore, this particular land will not go unused 
or misused. It, in actuality, will be for the Military Museum of Texas 
that can really be called the Military Museum--one of them--of the 
United States of America. We support honoring our soldiers.

So let me thank Ron Kendall, Elliot Doomes, Ward McCarragher, Johanna 
Hardy, Major Keithen Washington of my office, who was a Department of 
Defense detailee. We thank him for his fine work, and my deputy chief 
of staff for her untiring efforts to keep moving this bill.

Certainly we want to acknowledge all of the original cosponsors: 
Mario Diaz-Balart, Ted Poe, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Charlie Gonzalez, 
Henry ''Hank'' Johnson, and Ralph Hall, and the many others who have 
rallied around to be supportive.

Let me close at this time and indicate that we often speak of making 
sure that our veterans have all their benefits. We want to help the 
wounded warriors. Many of us visit the front lines from Iraq to 
Afghanistan to Bosnia to Albania and places beyond, but we want them to 
know that we cherish what they have done, and a military museum is a 
way of doing that. It gives them great joy to teach and educate adults 
and children, alike, what it is to serve. Our freedom is intertwined 
with the sacrifices of our servicemen and -women whose devotion to 
freedom is unparalleled. I am privileged to honor their sacrifices and 
the role each plays in our freedom by championing and supporting this 
legislation.

This bill is yet another reminder to all Americans of the risk that 
our servicemembers take on our behalf daily. Moreover, H.R. 6510 is an 
expression of gratitude for their service.

The Military Museum of Texas houses wonderful memorabilia and 
artifacts, and I can say that the relics remind us to be grateful and 
thankful for the reasons owed to military servicemen and -women for the 
sacrifices they made for our enjoyment of freedom. So I ask my 
colleagues to help us make it right, and I ask my colleagues to support 
H.R. 6510, a bipartisan bill recognizing the history of our great 
military men and women.