---
---

# EMERGENCY BORDER SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `6dbc20ff07985398c4a44e3a2c96cb41`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5875.

I want to personally thank Chairman Price for his work on these 
issues. The chairman has joined me on the border touring--I represent 
more border than anybody else in the Congress, over 785 miles along the 
Mexican border. We've had the opportunity to tour all the way from 
Texas to San Diego, including the northern border. And I want to thank 
him for bringing forth this piece of legislation. Let me also just 
indicate that this is a major piece of legislation that's critical to 
making sure that we secure our border. If anything is important, it is 
making sure that this country remains secure.

Earlier this month, the House passed a supplemental appropriation 
bill that continued to fund our operations both in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and in addition included $701 million in much needed 
border security funding. This is the funding that our men and women on 
the border are asking for and need to get the job done.

We all know that violence in Mexico has escalated, and we need to 
ensure that U.S. borders are not left vulnerable. We were disappointed 
when the Senate did not include the border funding in their version of 
the supplemental appropriations bill. So earlier this week, I was 
joined by Congressman Teague from New Mexico, as well as Congresswoman 
Giffords from Arizona, in writing a letter to our leadership asking 
them for the emergency border funding for this piece of legislation. We 
could not let the Senate gridlock sacrifice our ability to keep the 
border secure.

Last night, we were pleased to join Chairman Price in cosponsoring 
H.R. 5875, the bill that will provide these resources for the border. 
This bill is paid for, and not a penny will be borrowed. This bill will 
target funds just as the previous House-passed supplemental bill. It 
includes additional Border Patrol people that we need on the border, 
additional officers right at the points of entry. I ask support for 
this piece of legislation.