---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `6dc2e09285e9b11d7a10de61c326a92f`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the rule for 
H.R. 1591. In fact, Madam Chair, you have set the rule, and we need 
rules of the road. That is why we need to pass H.R. 1591.

This is not the average spending bill taken up by the Congress. This 
legislation represents a very personal decision that needs to be made 
by each and every Member of this body about the future of our Nation. 
The fact is, and I address, if I may through the Chair, my respected 
brothers and sisters in the opposition.

The fact is that this bill was not necessitated by the acts of 
Congress. No, no. This supplemental is necessary because our Nation 
faces an emergency due to the multitude of failures from this 
administration. Why are you carrying their water?

Funding will be provided to make certain that the disgrace of Walter 
Reed will not be repeated. This supplemental makes certain that our 
troops are not redeployed in and out of Iraq without proper rest, 
without proper preparation. We all support that, don't we? And our 
support in Iraq will be brought to an end responsibly.

We recently observed the 4-year anniversary of the war in Iraq. And 
yet during those 4 years, Congress stood on the sidelines providing 
endless funding without questioning. No more; no more.

Today, Congress finally fulfills its constitutionally mandated 
responsibility, provides real oversight for the


funding of this war, and holds this administration accountable for its 
actions. That is what this rule, that is what this legislation is all 
about.

We have the opportunity here, all of us, to undo some of the severe 
damage caused by the unnecessary war. I ask Members to vote for the 
rule and for the bill.