# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `6dc5595adbf04edeb8e7e20b28e35c71`
`Mr. ADERHOLT â€” 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326--the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2010.

Request as named in the report: Electrically Charged Mesh Defense Net 
Troop Protection System

Requesting Member: Robert Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Victory Solutions, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4900 Corporate Drive, Suite A, 
Huntsville, AL, 35805.

Description of Request: $7,500,000. The funding would be used for 
''D-NET'' a Defense Net Troop Protection System designed to intercept 
and negate the serious insurgent and terrorist threat tactics employing 
Rocket Propelled Grenades (RPG), mortars, and small rocket munitions 
encountered by U.S. Combat Forces. This product could help save 
warfighters' lives in hostile territories such as Afghanistan and Iraq 
through an innovative and low-cost system of defending vehicles against 
enemy attacks by further testing and prototype development of a system 
which has passed all tests so far and gotten favorable government 
program manager review, and which was developed with input from troops 
in the field. The spending plan for this Phase II of the program, to 
total $7,500,000, is: Prototype Production and Field Test & Evaluation 
Program for integration and operational development. Further develop 
the D-Net technology based on Phase I R&D Tests to a Technology 
Readiness Level (TRL) worthy of deploying a limited quantity of ''Field 
Prototypes'' to Theatre for field and operations test and evaluation.

FY2010 Task A: D-Net ''Field Prototypes'' ($3.5M). Deliver to Army 
Logistics: 100 ''Field Prototypes'' of the D-Net Static Troop 
Protection System for Theatre Deployment on military asset vehicle for 
field testing (Procurement of Prototypes delivered to Military. 
Develop, Build, Assemble, Kit Packaging within military requirements 
like HAZMAT etc, Deliver and Ship to War Zone to fill purchase for 
Field Test Program) ($3.5M, or $35K/unit).

Task B: Field Test Program, data collection and refinement ($1.075M). 
Send science and engineering teams to Theatre for collection of field 
data from Field Prototypes deployed (Data collection material $125K, 
OCONUS Labor $425K), interact with operating community for feedback, 
return to lab and refine the technology for better performance and 
utility (Re-engineer labor $225K). Requires OCONUS travel ($300K).

Task C: Threat Characterization ($350K). Analyze and Perform trade 
Studies on Threat variants commonly engaged in Theatre scenarios. 
Engineering and analysis labor ($350K).

Task D: Net Optimization & Continued R&D ($1.3M); Range Test Net 
Materials ($250K); Government Provided Range Test Facilities &


Government Provided Threats for Tests ($500K); Parametric Studies/ 
Validation Labor/ Salaries Engineering ($250K) and Manufacturing labor 
($250K), Travel ($50K).

Task E: Continue Launcher Development ($870K). Ground and Aerial 
Launcher Design and Development R&D and Fabrication Material ($320K); 
Testing ($150K); Labor for Engineering, Integration and Manufacturing 
for Platform Depot Requirements ($400K).

Task F: Integration to Systems & Platforms ($405K). Design and 
Integration Trade Studies, COTS Sensor Integration Analysis and Labor 
($250K); Material ($75K), Travel to Platform Project Offices ($80K).

Request as named in the report: Marine Corps MK 1077 Flatracks

Requesting Member: Robert Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: SUMMA Technology, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: headquartered at 140 Sparkman Drive, 
Huntsville, AL 35805. The manufacturing facility is in Cullman, 
Alabama.

Description of Request: $3,000,000. The funding would be used for the 
MK1077 Flatrack. This is a revolutionary material handling system that 
provides the Marines with expedited logistical support while achieving 
significant manpower and equipment reductions. These racks and the 
containers they work with can be used to transport ammunition or other 
supplies in and out of areas quickly, thus greatly reducing the 
warfighter's exposure to danger. This is a continuation of a multi-year 
procurement program, and the recipient company has a proven record of 
meeting the strict, structural requirements for this item. The USMC has 
a requirement for 3,500 MK1077 Flatrack units of which 1,000 units have 
been acquired to date. $3,000,000 will provide approximately 347 
additional units, bringing the inventory up to 1,347.

Request as named in the report: Waterside Wide Area Tactical Coverage 
and Homing

Requesting Member: Robert Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Miltec Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: Miltec Corporation, located at 21232 
Hwy 431 Guntersville, AL 35976

Description of Request: $4,000,000. The funding would be used for 
development and integration of systems for the final test and 
demonstration of the WaterWATCH affordable underwater monitoring 
capability. Most waterfront facilities are unprotected due to cost 
considerations. Finalization of this product would make available a 
security system which installations at military bases and other 
critical infrastructure locations (such as nuclear power plants near 
waterways) could afford. WaterWATCH integrates many currently available 
components through the development of new software and the testing of 
these systems. Approximately $60,000 would be needed for travel, 
approximately $150,000 for hardware, and the rest for labor (software 
development and testing).

Request as named in the report: Protective Self-Decontaminating 
Surfaces

Requesting Member: Robert Aderholt

Bill Number: H.R. 3326--the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2010

Account or Provision: RDT&E--Defense-Wide

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Ventana Research Corp. (VRC) & 
Kappler, Inc., and Kappler, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: VRC at 2702 South 4th Avenue, South 
Tucson, AZ 85713-4816; and Kappler at 115 Grimes Drive, Guntersville, 
AL 35976-9364

Description of Request: $2,000,000. The funding would be used for 
Prototype field validation tests of VRC-Kappler Chemical Biohazard 
Protective systems, lab tests of bacterial infections, diseases and 
contaminated human remains pouches (CHRPs); to field and live test 
nerve gas and radiological agents (in order to design the suit to 
withstand such an attack by a hostile nation). Present decontamination 
processes are labor intensive and require lengthy downtimes. Field-
tested prototypes of this fabric demonstrate cost-effective Chemical 
Biohazard protection for military personnel and civilian populations. 
Applications could be military, for homeland security, or for dangerous 
medical and rescue operations. The spending plan is Personnel: 
$620,000; Materials: $80,000; Equipment: $120,000; travel: $25,000; 
Govt Agency partnerships: Oversight and testing work: DTRA/CBT: 
$90,000; AFRL/Tyndall AFB: $250,000; USA NSRDEC: $90,000; 
Preproduction, Live Agents Tests, $825,000.
