---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `6dc925f029ce09422dd10308f4fed33d`
`Mr. SMITH — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Heroes 
Helping Heroes Demonstration Program of 2007, along with my 
distinguished colleague from Iowa, Senator Harkin. I ask unanimous 
consent that the text of this bill be printed in the Record.

Our intention is to expand the use of peer-support approaches to 
assist the reintegration of America's veterans as they return from 
active duty to their homes and communities. We hope that this 
legislation will demonstrate the effectiveness of peer-support 
approaches and ease the burden of the social, economic, medical and 
psychological struggles our veterans face.

Deployed soldiers face extreme stress and at times devastating 
injuries. Left untreated, this stress can have devastating impact on 
soldiers and their families. Army researchers have found that alcohol 
misuse went from 13 percent among soldiers to 21 percent one year after 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. It also has been found that 
soldiers with anger and aggression issues increase from 11 percent to 
22 percent after deployment. Furthermore, the best studies to date have 
shown that up to one-third of our current war veterans are coping with 
a serious mental health problem, most notably Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder (PTSD).

In addition to these personal struggles, returning soldiers also face 
serious social and economic challenges. Data from the U.S. Bureau of 
Labor Statistics indicates that unemployment among soldiers returning 
to civilian life is 15 percent--three times the national average. Those 
soldiers planning to divorce their spouse rose from nine percent to 15 
percent after time spent in the combat zone. Unfortunately, as more 
troops are deployed, deployments are extended and breaks between 
deployments become shorter these problems will only become more 
prevalent.

At present, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs are struggling to meet the needs of returning veterans. 
Situations like those recently uncovered at Walter Reed Hospital 
demonstrate a health care system stretched to its limits. Furthermore, 
it would require significant additional resources to build up 
traditional service organizations and approaches to be sufficient to 
deal with these serious problems.

I have risen on this floor many times to speak about the need to 
adequately address the mental health and physical health needs of our 
citizens. However, there has never been a case when the responsibility 
and duty of this body and our country has been clearer than the duty to 
aid our veterans who have sacrificed their bodies, minds and lives for 
this country.

Fortunately, ''peer-support'' approaches offer a low cost and 
effective adjunct to traditional services by allowing the heroes of our 
country to help each other. Veteran peer-support offers two things that 
no kind of professionalized service can ever hope to: the support of 
someone who has had the same kinds of experiences and truly understands 
what the veteran is going through; and the potential of a large pool of 
experienced volunteers who can assist and support returning veterans at 
very little cost.

The effectiveness of these approaches has been documented in a 
variety of domains. Specifically, for mental health disorders like PTSD 
and depression, peer-support programs have shown that participation 
yields improvement in psychiatric symptoms and decreased 
hospitalizations, the development of larger social support networks, 
enhanced self-esteem and social functioning, as well as lower services 
costs. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration 
(SAMHSA), and even the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental 
Health, have recognized peer-support approaches as an emerging best 
practice that is helping people recover from traumatic events.

Although the peer-support approach is promising, the need for this 
type of assistance is growing and far exceeds the services that are 
available. A report from the National Symposium for the Needs of Young 
Veterans hosted by AMVETS recognized this need in Voices for Action: A 
Focus on the Changing Needs of America's Veterans.

The legislation that I am introducing today requires the Veterans 
Administration to create a pilot project. This project would 
demonstrate and assess the feasibility of funding community based 
veterans' organizations and groups to create and expand peer-support 
programs for veterans. It also authorizes $13.5 million over three 
years for this program. These funds will be used to support the 
development or expansion of peer-support programs in up to 20 non-
profit organizations that support the reintegration of veterans on a 
local and national level.

The use of peer-support approaches is supported by veterans, 
veterans' organizations and mental health professionals. I ask for 
unanimous consent to include in the record the following letters from 
the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Disabled American 
Veterans, the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans, Vets4Vets and 
the American Psychological Association.

I am pleased that Senator Harkin has joined me in this effort. Our 
legislation is an important step to expand and improve the support 
available to our veterans and their transition back to community life. 
We hope that this bill will continue to focus attention on the needs of 
our veterans who have given so much to their country.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.