# A TRIBUTE TO COLONEL MICHAEL SHUPP, UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
## `6dd430573414bdb34015079cb5ebbcd9`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam Speaker, today, I pay tribute to Col. Michael 
Shupp, United States Marine Corps. His service to our country and the 
Corps has demonstrated true patriotism and exceptional military 
leadership. On September 17, I will have the personal honor of 
presiding over Colonel Shupp's retirement ceremony, and I want to take 
this moment to recognize his 28 years of dedicated service.

Colonel Shupp was born and raised in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and is 
a graduate of the Virginia Military Institute and Marine Corps Officer 
Candidate School. Since the beginning of his career, he has been a true 
professional in every sense of the word. His assignments have ranged 
from serving as a young platoon commander in Japan, to instructing our 
future leaders at the Naval Academy, where his performance was 
recognized by President George W. Bush. He served combat tours in Iraq 
and a peacekeeping tour in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Wherever he was, he 
always set the highest standards of professionalism and leadership for 
all those around him. His superb leadership has been evident in 
numerous command and staff assignments throughout the Department of 
Defense, including a tour as the Marine Corps' Liaison to the House of 
Representatives and his current duty as the Legislative Assistant to 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington DC.

Colonel Shupp served this Nation twice in combat. In 1990, Captain 
Shupp deployed Company ''A'' of the 1st Light Armored Infantry 
Battalion to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Operations Desert Shield 
and Desert Storm. Once the ground war commenced, his company led the 
advance of the First Marine Division. His unit cut through Iraqi 
resistance and led the first Coalition Forces into Kuwait City. Company 
''A,'' under Captain Shupp's leadership, then participated in the 
capture of the Kuwait International Airport. In 2004, Colonel Shupp 
returned to the Persian Gulf and assumed command of Regimental Combat 
Team-1 (RCT-1) at Camp Fallujah, Iraq. He commanded the Regiment during 
counter-insurgency operations, the second Battle of Fallujah, 
humanitarian assistance and reconstruction efforts, and the first free 
Iraqi National election. After leaving Iraq, the Marine Corps and 
Department of Defense chose to capitalize on his experience. He was 
selected to serve as the Chief of Staff for the Joint Improvised 
Explosive Device Defeat Organization in Washington, DC.

For 28 years, Colonel Shupp has served this great country from 
locations all over the world. Whether he was training new recruits, 
commanding marines in combat or working with Congress, he served with 
both honor and distinction. He will indeed be remembered as an 
exceptional marine, a true patriot, a courageous warrior and a 
dedicated leader with the highest integrity and compassion for all who 
had the distinct honor of serving with him.

His loving wife, Sherrye, and daughter, Jessica, have demonstrated 
unwavering support throughout his time in service, and this Nation owes 
a debt of gratitude to their sacrifice.
