---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF UNITED STATES ARMY SPECIALIST  CHRISTIAN M. ADAMS
## `6dd814134618287a2d24dd24e5740676`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 23 June 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor U.S. Army SPC 
Christian M. Adams, who passed away on June 11, 2010.

Christian was born at Fort Bragg in North Carolina, and spent his 
childhood growing up in Sierra Vista, Arizona where he attended 
Carmichael and Bella Vista elementary schools, then Sierra Vista Middle 
School before graduating from Buena High School in 2003. Well known in 
the community, Christian enlisted in the Army soon after high school.

Assigned to the 20th Engineer Battalion, 36th Engineer Brigade at 
Fort Hood, Texas, Christian was a tracked vehicle mechanic on his 
second combat deployment when he passed away on June 11, 2010 in 
Kandahar, Afghanistan.

We remember Christian and offer our deepest condolences and sincerest 
prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the feeling 
of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, it is 
my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that Christian made a difference in the lives of many others 
and serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and friend 
that will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he touched.

SPC Christian Adams leaves behind his beloved wife Amanda, daughter 
Faith, mother Donna, stepfather John and father Anthony.

This body and this country owe Christian and his family our deepest 
gratitude, and we will today and forevermore honor and remember him and 
his service to our country.
