# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `6dd8032d5f24921b56b4305ecc5a97db`
`Mr. PRICE of North Carolina — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, my colleague from Virginia 
has offered a motion to recommit H.R. 2740 the MEJA Expansion and 
Enforcement Act, to the Judiciary Committee and to amend the 
legislation with regard to intelligence activities. I will support this 
motion, but with two important qualifications.

The motion to recommit would amend H.R. 2740 with a rule of 
construction, stating, ''nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
affect intelligence activities that are otherwise permissible prior to 
the enactment of this Act.'' This amendment does not at all modify the 
force of my legislation, does not limit the scope of the MEJA 
jurisdiction, and does not grant immunity to anyone, including 
contractor employees of the intelligence community. Put simply, I am 
voting in support of this motion because it in no way alters the 
underlying bill before us.

With that said, let me attach two qualifications to my support. 
First, the amendment is


unnecessary in the context of both current law and this legislation. 
Second, the amendment raises serious questions about the activities its 
proponents may be seeking to protect.

My legislation would indeed place contractor employees of non-defense 
related agencies under the extraterritorial jurisdiction of United 
States federal law, granting the Department of Justice authority to 
prosecute felony offenses committed by non-defense contractors. Defense 
contractors are already covered by MEJA, a point that seems lost on the 
authors of this motion. Given that the majority of the intelligence 
community falls under the Department of Defense, it stands to reason 
that many--if not most--contractors engaged in intelligence-related 
activities are already under the jurisdiction of federal law. Not only 
that, employees of the Defense Department intelligence agencies, 
including agents of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National 
Security Agency, and intelligence services of the different branches of 
the Armed Forces, among others, are covered by MEJA, and this coverage 
has not endangered our national security in the least. So concerns 
about my legislation, which deals with non-defense contractors, seem 
ill-founded in the context of current law.

To my knowledge, there have never been significant concerns raised 
about the coverage of these Defense Department intelligence agents and 
contractors, for one major reason: prosecutorial discretion. The 
Department of Justice always has the discretion to refrain from 
prosecuting a case if it will endanger our national security interests. 
My legislation does not compel prosecution and it does not interfere 
with the prosecutor's discretion. If a prosecutor ever has concerns 
that prosecution of a contractor under MEJA would endanger state 
secrets, expose clandestine networks, or otherwise undermine our 
security interests, the prosecutor has the discretion not to prosecute 
the case. It's as simple as that.

Let me also point out that this bill only affects contractors who 
commit felony crimes. So long as private contractors, including those 
who are engaged in intelligence-related activities, are conducting 
themselves within the bounds of the law, this legislation is irrelevant 
to them. However, if there are private, for-profit contractors tasked 
with duties that require them to commit felony offenses, Congress needs 
to know about it. Such a revelation would point to a need for a serious 
debate about whether we are using contractors appropriately.

My second qualification is that this amendment raises serious 
questions about the activities it may be intended to protect. The 
question here is, given that my bill only targets activities that are 
unlawful, why do my colleagues feel the need to clarify that it does 
not affect activities that are permissible? What activities are 
contractors carrying out that are permissible but not lawful?

I have great apprehension about what might be meant in this context, 
but first let me state clearly: the law is the highest authority in the 
land, other than the constitution. The law trumps executive orders, 
memorandums, and policies in all cases. I am voting for this motion 
with the understanding that there is no activity a contractor might be 
performing that could ever be permissible but not lawful. The 
activities that we assign to private contractors must be in accordance 
with the law on the books. Therefore, I interpret this motion simply to 
mean that nothing in my bill will have any effect on contractors 
working on lawful, permissible, appropriate intelligence activities.

I raise this concern because, as my colleagues well know, Congress--
including members on both sides of the aisle--and this Administration 
have been at significant odds about the activities appropriate for our 
military and intelligence community to perform in certain contexts 
relating to the war in Iraq and the broader war against terrorism, 
especially with regard to the treatment of suspects in interrogations 
and detentions. There is rampant evidence that this Administration 
believes certain activities to be ''permissible'' which are clearly 
illegal under several statutes in United States Code.

Just today, for example, the New York Times reported that the 
Department of Justice has issued secret memorandums that, in direct 
contrast to the policies they have publicly avowed, amounted to ''an 
expansive endorsement of the harshest interrogation techniques ever 
used by the Central Intelligence Agency'' and ''for the first time 
provided explicit authorization to barrage terror suspects with a 
combination of painful physical and psychological tactics, including 
head-slapping, simulated drowning and frigid temperatures.'' I submit 
the full article for inclusion in the Record.

The harshest forms of physical and psychological tactics outlined in 
this article are inappropriate and illegal for our military personnel 
and intelligence agents, to say nothing of private contractors, and it 
is abominable that this Administration continues to work to circumvent 
our time-honored values and laws to authorize behavior that is un-
American to its core.

There are clear laws on the books prohibiting torture, including the 
War Crimes Act (18 U.S. Code 2441) and the federal anti-torture statute 
(18 U.S. Code 2340). Moreover, torture is prohibited by the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice (articles 77-134). And the United States is a 
ratified signatory to international treaties, including the Geneva 
Conventions (Common Article 3) and the Convention Against Torture, 
which specifically outlaw torture. Most importantly, the United States 
Constitution (amendments 5, 8, and 14) explicitly prohibits cruel, 
unusual, and inhumane treatment or punishment.

The kinds of activities that, to the great shame of our nation, have 
been carried out at Abu Ghraib prison and Guantanamo Bay detention 
facilities are not, in any circumstances, permissible. Let us be clear 
that, in the passage of this motion, we are in no way authorizing or 
legitimating these behaviors. Let us also be clear that, in this 
passage of this legislation, we are providing federal prosecutors the 
tools to arrest and prosecute any contractor working for this 
government who commits such abominable acts to the full extent of the 
law.









[From the New York Times, Oct. 4, 2007]







Secret U.S. Endorsement of Severe Interrogations







(By Scott Shane, David Johnston and James Risen)




 Washington, Oct. 3.--When the Justice Department publicly 


 declared torture ''abhorrent'' in a legal opinion in December 


 2004, the Bush administration appeared to have abandoned its 


 assertion of nearly unlimited presidential authority to order 


 brutal interrogations.



 But soon after Alberto R. Gonzales's arrival as attorney 


 general in February 2005, the Justice Department issued 


 another opinion, this one in secret. It was a very different 


 document, according to officials briefed on it, an expansive 


 endorsement of the harshest interrogation techniques ever 


 used by the Central Intelligence Agency.



 The new opinion, the officials said, for the first time 


 provided explicit authorization to barrage terror suspects 


 with a combination of painful physical and psychological 


 tactics, including head-slapping, simulated drowning and 


 frigid temperatures.



 Mr. Gonzales approved the legal memorandum on ''combined 


 effects'' over the objections of James B. Comey, the deputy 


 attorney general, who was leaving his job after bruising 


 clashes with the White House. Disagreeing with what he viewed 


 as the opinion's overreaching legal reasoning, Mr. Comey told 


 colleagues at the department that they would all be 


 ''ashamed'' when the world eventually learned of it.



 Later that year, as Congress moved toward outlawing 


 ''cruel, inhuman and degrading'' treatment, the Justice 


 Department issued another secret opinion, one most lawmakers 


 did not know existed, current and former officials said. The 


 Justice Department document declared that none of the C.I.A. 


 interrogation methods violated that standard.



 The classified opinions, never previously disclosed, are a 


 hidden legacy of President Bush's second term and Mr. 


 Gonzales's tenure at the Justice Department, where he moved 


 quickly to align it with the White House after a 2004 


 rebellion by staff lawyers that had thrown policies on 


 surveillance and detention into turmoil.



 Congress and the Supreme Court have intervened repeatedly 


 in the last two years to impose limits on interrogations, and 


 the administration has responded as a policy matter by 


 dropping the most extreme techniques. But the 2005 Justice 


 Department opinions remain in effect, and their legal 


 conclusions have been confirmed by several more recent 


 memorandums, officials said. They show how the White House 


 has succeeded in preserving the broadest possible legal 


 latitude for harsh tactics.



 A White House spokesman, Tony Fratto, said Wednesday that 


 he would not comment on any legal opinion related to 


 interrogations. Mr. Fratto added, ''We have gone to great 


 lengths, including statutory efforts and the recent executive 


 order, to make it clear that the intelligence community and 


 our practices fall within U.S. law'' and international 


 agreements.



 More than two dozen current and former officials involved 


 in counterterrorism were interviewed over the past three 


 months about the opinions and the deliberations on 


 interrogation policy. Most officials would speak only on the 


 condition of anonymity because of the secrecy of the 


 documents and the C.I.A. detention operations they govern.



 When he stepped down as attorney general in September after 


 widespread criticism of the firing of federal prosecutors and 


 withering attacks on his credibility, Mr. Gonzales talked 


 proudly in a farewell speech of how his department was ''a 


 place of inspiration'' that had balanced the necessary 


 flexibility to conduct the war on terrorism with the need to 


 uphold the law.



 Associates at the Justice Department said Mr. Gonzales 


 seldom resisted pressure from Vice President Dick Cheney and 


 David S. Addington, Mr. Cheney's counsel, to endorse policies 


 that they saw as effective in safeguarding Americans, even 


 though the practices brought the condemnation of other 


 governments, human rights groups and Democrats in Congress. 


 Critics say Mr. Gonzales turned his agency into an arm of the 


 Bush




 White House, undermining the department's independence.



 The interrogation opinions were signed by Steven G. 


 Bradbury, who since 2005 has headed the elite Office of Legal 


 Counsel at the Justice Department. He has become a frequent 


 public defender of the National Security Agency's domestic 


 surveillance program and detention policies at Congressional 


 hearings and press briefings, a role that some legal scholars 


 say is at odds with the office's tradition of avoiding 


 political advocacy.



 Mr. Bradbury defended the work of his office as the 


 government's most authoritative interpreter of the law. ''In 


 my experience, the White House has not told me how an opinion 


 should come out,'' he said in an interview. ''The White House 


 has accepted and respected our opinions, even when they 


 didn't like the advice being given.''



 The debate over how terrorism suspects should be held and 


 questioned began shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, 


 when the Bush administration adopted secret detention and 


 coercive interrogation, both practices the United States had 


 previously denounced when used by other countries. It adopted 


 the new measures without public debate or Congressional vote, 


 choosing to rely instead on the confidential legal advice of 


 a handful of appointees.



 The policies set off bruising internal battles, pitting 


 administration moderates against hard-liners, military 


 lawyers against Pentagon chiefs and, most surprising, a 


 handful of conservative lawyers at the Justice Department 


 against the White House in the stunning mutiny of 2004. But 


 under Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Bradbury, the Justice 


 Department was wrenched back into line with the White 


 House.



 After the Supreme Court ruled in 2006 that the Geneva 


 Conventions applied to prisoners who belonged to Al Qaeda, 


 President Bush for the first time acknowledged the C.I.A.'s 


 secret jails and ordered their inmates moved to Guantanamo 


 Bay, Cuba. The C.I.A. halted its use of waterboarding, or 


 pouring water over a bound prisoner's cloth-covered face to 


 induce fear of suffocation.



 But in July, after a monthlong debate inside the 


 administration, President Bush signed a new executive order 


 authorizing the use of what the administration calls 


 ''enhanced'' interrogation techniques--the details remain 


 secret--and officials say the C.I.A. again is holding 


 prisoners in ''black sites'' overseas. The executive order 


 was reviewed and approved by Mr. Bradbury and the Office of 


 Legal Counsel.



 Douglas W. Kmiec, who headed that office under President 


 Ronald Reagan and the first President George Bush and wrote a 


 book about it, said he believed the intense pressures of the 


 campaign against terrorism have warped the office's proper 


 role.



 ''The office was designed to insulate against any need to 


 be an advocate,'' said Mr. Kmiec, now a conservative scholar 


 at Pepperdine University law school. But at times in recent 


 years, Mr. Kmiec said, the office, headed by William H. 


 Rehnquist and Antonin Scalia before they served on the 


 Supreme Court, ''lost its ability to say no.'' ''The approach 


 changed dramatically with opinions on the war on terror,'' 


 Mr. Kmiec said. ''The office became an advocate for the 


 president's policies.''



 From the secret sites in Afghanistan, Thailand and Eastern 


 Europe where C.I.A. teams held Qaeda terrorists, questions 


 for the lawyers at C.I.A. headquarters arrived daily. Nervous 


 interrogators wanted to know: Are we breaking the laws 


 against torture? The Bush administration had entered 


 uncharted legal territory beginning in 2002, holding 


 prisoners outside the scrutiny of the International Red Cross 


 and subjecting them to harrowing pressure tactics. They 


 included slaps to the head; hours held naked in a frigid 


 cell; days and nights without sleep while battered by 


 thundering rock music; long periods manacled in stress 


 positions; or the ultimate, waterboarding.



 Never in history had the United States authorized such 


 tactics. While President Bush and C.I.A. officials would 


 later insist that the harsh measures produced crucial 


 intelligence, many veteran interrogators, psychologists and 


 other experts say that less coercive methods are equally or 


 more effective.



 With virtually no experience in interrogations, the C.I.A. 


 had constructed its program in a few harried months by 


 consulting Egyptian and Saudi intelligence officials and 


 copying Soviet interrogation methods long used in training 


 American service men to withstand capture. The agency 


 officers questioning prisoners constantly sought advice from 


 lawyers thousands of miles away.



 ''We were getting asked about combinations--'Can we do this 


 and this at the same time?' '' recalled Paul C. Kelbaugh, a 


 veteran intelligence lawyer who was deputy legal counsel at 


 the C.I.A.'s Counterterrorist Center from 2001 to 2003.



 Interrogators were worried that even approved techniques 


 had such a painful, multiplying effect when combined that 


 they might cross the legal line, Mr. Kelbaugh said. He 


 recalled agency officers asking: ''These approved techniques, 


 say, withholding food, and 50-degree temperature--can they be 


 combined?'' Or ''Do I have to do the less extreme before the 


 more extreme?''



 The questions came more frequently, Mr. Kelbaugh said, as 


 word spread about a C.I.A. inspector general inquiry 


 unrelated to the war on terrorism. Some veteran C.I.A. 


 officers came under scrutiny because they were advisers to 


 Peruvian officers who in early 2001 shot down a missionary 


 flight they had mistaken for a drug-running aircraft. The 


 Americans were not charged with crimes, but they endured 


 three years of investigation, saw their careers derailed and 


 ran up big legal bills.



 That experience shook the Qaeda interrogation team, Mr. 


 Kelbaugh said. ''You think you're making a difference and 


 maybe saving 3,000 American lives from the next attack. And 


 someone tells you, 'Well, that guidance was a little vague, 


 and the inspector general wants to talk to you,' '' he 


 recalled. ''We couldn't tell them, 'Do the best you can,' 


 because the people who did the best they could in Peru were 


 looking at a grand jury.'' Mr. Kelbaugh said the questions 


 were sometimes close calls that required consultation with 


 the Justice Department. But in August 2002, the department 


 provided a sweeping legal justification for even the harshest 


 tactics.



 That opinion, which would become infamous as ''the torture 


 memo'' after it was leaked, was written largely by John Yoo, 


 a young Berkeley law professor serving in the Office of Legal 


 Counsel. His broad views of presidential power were shared by 


 Mr. Addington, the vice president's adviser. Their close 


 alliance provoked John Ashcroft, then the attorney general, 


 to refer privately to Mr. Yoo as Dr. Yes for his seeming 


 eagerness to give the White House whatever legal 


 justifications it desired, a Justice Department official 


 recalled.



 Mr. Yoo's memorandum said no interrogation practices were 


 illegal unless they produced pain equivalent to organ failure 


 or ''even death.'' A second memo produced at the same time 


 spelled out the approved practices and how often or how long 


 they could be used. Despite that guidance, in March 2003, 


 when the C.I.A. caught Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the chief 


 planner of the Sept. 11 attacks, interrogators were again 


 haunted by uncertainty. Former intelligence officials, for 


 the first time, disclosed that a variety of tough 


 interrogation tactics were used about 100 times over two 


 weeks on Mr. Mohammed. Agency officials then ordered a halt, 


 fearing the combined assault might have amounted to illegal 


 torture. A C.I.A. spokesman, George Little, declined to 


 discuss the handling of Mr. Mohammed. Mr. Little said the 


 program ''has been conducted lawfully, with great care and 


 close review'' and ''has helped our country disrupt terrorist 


 plots and save innocent lives.''



 ''The agency has always sought a clear legal framework, 


 conducting the program in strict accord with U.S. law, and 


 protecting the officers who go face-to-face with ruthless 


 terrorists,'' Mr. Little added.



 Some intelligence officers say that many of Mr. Mohammed's 


 statements proved exaggerated or false. One problem, a former 


 senior agency official said, was that the C.I.A.'s initial 


 interrogators were not experts on Mr. Mohammed's background 


 or Al Qaeda, and it took about a month to get such an expert 


 to the secret prison. The former official said many C.I.A. 


 professionals now believe patient, repeated questioning by 


 well-informed experts is more effective than harsh physical 


 pressure.



 Other intelligence officers, including Mr. Kelbaugh, insist 


 that the harsh treatment produced invaluable insights into Al 


 Qaeda's structure and plans. ''We leaned in pretty hard on 


 K.S.M.,'' Mr. Kelbaugh said, referring to Mr. Mohammed. ''We 


 were getting good information, and then they were told: 


 ''Slow it down. It may not be correct. Wait for some legal 


 clarification.''



 The doubts at the C.I.A. proved prophetic. In late 2003, 


 after Mr. Yoo left the Justice Department, the new head of 


 the Office of Legal Counsel, Jack Goldsmith, began reviewing 


 his work, which he found deeply flawed. Mr. Goldsmith 


 infuriated White House officials, first by rejecting part of 


 the National Security Agency's surveillance program, 


 prompting the threat of mass resignations by top Justice 


 Department officials, including Mr. Ashcroft and Mr. Comey, 


 and a showdown at the attorney general's hospital bedside.



 Then, in June 2004, Mr. Goldsmith formally withdrew the 


 August 2002 Yoo memorandum on interrogation, which he found 


 overreaching and poorly reasoned. Mr. Goldsmith left the 


 Justice Department soon afterward. He first spoke at length 


 about his dissenting views to The New York Times last month, 


 and testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on 


 Tuesday.



 Six months later, the Justice Department quietly posted on 


 its Web site a new legal opinion that appeared to end any 


 flirtation with torture, starting with its clarionlike 


 opening: ''Torture is abhorrent both to American law and 


 values and to international norms.''



 A single footnote--added to reassure the C.I.A.--suggested 


 that the Justice Department was not declaring the agency's 


 previous actions illegal. But the opinion was unmistakably a 


 retreat. Some White House officials had opposed publicizing 


 the document, but acquiesced to Justice Department officials 


 who argued that doing so would help clear the way for Mr. 


 Gonzales's confirmation as attorney general.



 If President Bush wanted to make sure the Justice 


 Department did not rebel again, Mr. Gonzales was the ideal 


 choice. As White House counsel, he had been a fierce 


 protector of the president's prerogatives. Deeply loyal to 


 Mr. Bush for championing his career from their days in Texas, 


 Mr. Gonzales would sometimes tell colleagues that he had just 


 one regret about becoming attorney general: He did not see 


 nearly as much of the president as he had in his previous 


 post.





 Among his first tasks at the Justice Department was to find 


 a trusted chief for the Office of Legal Counsel. First he 


 informed Daniel Levin, the acting head who had backed Mr. 


 Goldsmith's dissents and signed the new opinion renouncing 


 torture, that he would not get the job. He encouraged Mr. 


 Levin to take a position at the National Security Council, in 


 effect sidelining him.



 Mr. Bradbury soon emerged as the presumed favorite. But 


 White House officials, still smarting from Mr. Goldsmith's 


 rebuffs, chose to delay his nomination. Harriet E. Miers, the 


 new White House counsel, ''decided to watch Bradbury for a 


 month or two. He was sort of on trial,'' one Justice 


 Department official recalled.



 Mr. Bradbury's biography had a Horatio Alger element that 


 appealed to a succession of bosses, including Justice 


 Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court and Mr. Gonzales, the 


 son of poor immigrants. Mr. Bradbury's father had died when 


 he was an infant, and his mother took in laundry to support 


 her children. The first in his family to go to college, he 


 attended Stanford and the University of Michigan Law School. 


 He joined the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis, where he came 


 under the tutelage of Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater 


 independent prosecutor.



 Mr. Bradbury belonged to the same circle as his 


 predecessors: young, conservative lawyers with sterling 


 credentials, often with clerkships for prominent conservative 


 judges and ties to the Federalist Society, a powerhouse of 


 the legal right. Mr. Yoo, in fact, had proposed his old 


 friend Mr. Goldsmith for the Office of Legal Counsel job; Mr. 


 Goldsmith had hired Mr. Bradbury as his top deputy.



 ''We all grew up together,'' said Viet D. Dinh, an 


 assistant attorney general from 2001 to 2003 and very much a 


 member of the club. ''You start with a small universe of 


 Supreme Court clerks, and you narrow it down from there.''



 But what might have been subtle differences in quieter 


 times now cleaved them into warring camps.



 Justice Department colleagues say Mr. Gonzales was soon 


 meeting frequently with Mr. Bradbury on national security 


 issues, a White House priority. Admirers describe Mr. 


 Bradbury as low-key but highly skilled, a conciliator who 


 brought from 10 years of corporate practice a more pragmatic 


 approach to the job than Mr. Yoo and Mr. Goldsmith, both from 


 the academic world.



 ''As a practicing lawyer, you know how to address real 


 problems,'' said Noel J. Francisco, who worked at the Justice 


 Department from 2003 to 2005. ''At O.L.C., you're not writing 


 law review articles and you're not theorizing. You're giving 


 a client practical advice on a real problem.''



 As he had at the White House, Mr. Gonzales usually said 


 little in meetings with other officials, often deferring to 


 the hard-driving Mr. Addington. Mr. Bradbury also often 


 appeared in accord with the vice president's lawyer.



 Mr. Bradbury appeared to be ''fundamentally sympathetic to 


 what the White House and the C.I.A. wanted to do,'' recalled 


 Philip Zelikow, a former top State Department official. At 


 interagency meetings on detention and interrogation, Mr. 


 Addington was at times ''vituperative,'' said Mr. Zelikow, 


 but Mr. Bradbury, while taking similar positions, was 


 ''professional and collegial.''



 While waiting to learn whether he would be nominated to 


 head the Office of Legal Counsel, Mr. Bradbury was in an 


 awkward position, knowing that a decision contrary to White 


 House wishes could kill his chances.



 Charles J. Cooper, who headed the Office of Legal Counsel 


 under President Reagan, said he was ''very troubled'' at the 


 notion of a probationary period.



 ''If the purpose of the delay was a tryout, I think they 


 should have avoided it,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''You're implying 


 that the acting official is molding his or her legal analysis 


 to win the job.''



 Mr. Bradbury said he made no such concessions. ''No one 


 ever suggested to me that my nomination depended on how I 


 ruled on any opinion,'' he said. ''Every opinion I've signed 


 at the Office of Legal Counsel represents my best judgment of 


 what the law requires.''



 Scott Horton, an attorney affiliated with Human Rights 


 First who has closely followed the interrogation debate, said 


 any official offering legal advice on the campaign against 


 terror was on treacherous ground.



 ''For government lawyers, the national security issues they 


 were deciding were like working with nuclear waste--extremely 


 hazardous to their health,'' Mr. Horton said. ''If you give 


 the administration what it wants, you'll lose credibility in 


 the academic community,'' he said. ''But if you hold back, 


 you'll be vilified by conservatives and the administration.''



 In any case, the White House grew comfortable with Mr. 


 Bradbury's approach. He helped block the appointment of a 


 liberal Ivy League law professor to a career post in the 


 Office of Legal Counsel. And he signed the opinion approving 


 combined interrogation techniques.



 Mr. Comey strongly objected and told associates that he 


 advised Mr. Gonzales not to endorse the opinion. But the 


 attorney general made clear that the White House was adamant 


 about it, and that he would do nothing to resist.



 Under Mr. Ashcroft, Mr. Comey's opposition might have 


 killed the opinion. An imposing former prosecutor and self-


 described conservative who stands 6-foot-8, he was the rare 


 administration official who was willing to confront Mr. 


 Addington. At one testy 2004 White House meeting, when Mr. 


 Comey stated that ''no lawyer'' would endorse Mr. Yoo's 


 justification for the N.S.A. program, Mr. Addington demurred, 


 saying he was a lawyer and found it convincing. Mr. Comey 


 shot back: ''No good lawyer,'' according to someone present.



 But under Mr. Gonzales, and after the departure of Mr. 


 Goldsmith and other allies, the deputy attorney general found 


 himself isolated. His troublemaking on N.S.A. and on 


 interrogation, and in appointing his friend Patrick J. 


 Fitzgerald as special prosecutor in the C.I.A. leak case, 


 which would lead to the perjury conviction of I. Lewis Libby, 


 Mr. Cheney's chief of staff, had irreparably offended the 


 White House.



 ''On national security matters generally, there was a sense 


 that Comey was a wimp and that Comey was disloyal,'' said one 


 Justice Department official who heard the White House talk, 


 expressed with particular force by Mr. Addington.



 Mr. Comey provided some hints of his thinking about 


 interrogation and related issues in a speech that spring. 


 Speaking at the N.S.A.'s Fort Meade campus on Law Day--a 


 noteworthy setting for the man who had helped lead the 


 dissent a year earlier that forced some changes in the N.S.A. 


 program--Mr. Comey spoke of the ''agonizing collisions'' of 


 the law and the desire to protect Americans.



 ''We are likely to hear the words: 'If we don't do this, 


 people will die,' '' Mr. Comey said. But he argued that 


 government lawyers must uphold the principles of their great 


 institutions.



 ''It takes far more than a sharp legal mind to say 'no' 


 when it matters most,'' he said. ''It takes moral character. 


 It takes an understanding that in the long run, intelligence 


 under law is the only sustainable intelligence in this 


 country.''



 Mr. Gonzales's aides were happy to see Mr. Comey depart in 


 the summer of 2005. That June, President Bush nominated Mr. 


 Bradbury to head the Office of Legal Counsel, which some 


 colleagues viewed as a sign that he had passed a loyalty 


 test. Soon Mr. Bradbury applied his practical approach to a 


 new challenge to the C.I.A.'s methods.



 The administration had always asserted that the C.I.A.'s 


 pressure tactics did not amount to torture, which is banned 


 by federal law and international treaty. But officials had 


 privately decided the agency did not have to comply with 


 another provision in the Convention Against Torture--the 


 prohibition on ''cruel, inhuman, or degrading'' treatment.



 Now that loophole was about to be closed. First Senator 


 Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and then Senator 


 John McCain, the Arizona Republican who had been tortured as 


 a prisoner in North Vietnam, proposed legislation to ban such 


 treatment. At the administration's request, Mr. Bradbury 


 assessed whether the proposed legislation would outlaw any 


 C.I.A. methods, a legal question that had never before been 


 answered by the Justice Department.



 At least a few administration officials argued that no 


 reasonable interpretation of ''cruel, inhuman or degrading'' 


 would permit the most extreme C.I.A. methods, like 


 waterboarding. Mr. Bradbury was placed in a tough spot, said 


 Mr. Zelikow, the State Department counselor, who was working 


 at the time to rein in interrogation policy. ''If Justice 


 says some practices are in violation of the C.I.D. 


 standard,'' Mr. Zelikow said, referring to cruel, inhuman or 


 degrading, ''then they are now saying that officials broke 


 current law.''



 In the end, Mr. Bradbury's opinion delivered what the White 


 House wanted: a statement that the standard imposed by Mr. 


 McCain's Detainee Treatment Act would not force any change in 


 the C.I.A.'s practices, according to officials familiar with 


 the memo. Relying on a Supreme Court finding that only 


 conduct that ''shocks the conscience'' was unconstitutional, 


 the opinion found that in some circumstances not even 


 waterboarding was necessarily cruel, inhuman or degrading, 


 if, for example, a suspect was believed to possess crucial 


 intelligence about a planned terrorist attack, the officials 


 familiar with the legal finding said.



 In a frequent practice, Mr. Bush attached a statement to 


 the new law when he signed it, declaring his authority to set 


 aside the restrictions if they interfered with his 


 constitutional powers. At the same time, though, the 


 administration responded to pressure from Mr. McCain and 


 other lawmakers by reviewing interrogation policy and giving 


 up several C.I.A. techniques.



 Since late 2005, Mr. Bradbury has become a linchpin of the 


 administration's defense of counterterrorism programs, 


 helping to negotiate the Military Commissions Act last year 


 and frequently testifying about the N.S.A. surveillance 


 program. Once, he answered questions about administration 


 detention policies for an ''Ask the White House'' feature on 


 a Web site.



 Mr. Kmiec, the former Office of Legal Counsel head now at 


 Pepperdine, called Mr. Bradbury's public activities a 


 departure for an office that traditionally has shunned any 


 advocacy role.



 A senior administration official called Mr. Bradbury's 


 active role in shaping legislation and speaking to Congress 


 and the press ''entirely appropriate'' and consistent with 


 past practice. The official, who spoke on the condition of 


 anonymity, said Mr. Bradbury ''has played a critical role in 


 achieving greater transparency'' on the legal basis for 


 detention and surveillance programs.





 Though President Bush repeatedly nominated Mr. Bradbury as 


 the Office of Legal Counsel's assistant attorney general, 


 Democratic senators have blocked the nomination. Senator 


 Durbin said the Justice Department would not turn over copies 


 of his opinions or other evidence of Mr. Bradbury's role in 


 interrogation policy.



 ''There are fundamental questions about whether Mr. 


 Bradbury approved interrogation methods that are clearly 


 unacceptable,'' Mr. Durbin said.



 John D. Hutson, who served as the Navy's top lawyer from 


 1997 to 2000, said he believed that the existence of legal 


 opinions justifying abusive treatment is pernicious, 


 potentially blurring the rules for Americans handling 


 prisoners.



 ''I know from the military that if you tell someone they 


 can do a little of this for the country's good, some people 


 will do a lot of it for the country's better,'' Mr. Hutson 


 said. Like other military lawyers, he also fears that 


 official American acceptance of such treatment could endanger 


 Americans in the future.



 ''The problem is, once you've got a legal opinion that says 


 such a technique is O.K., what happens when one of our people 


 is captured and they do it to him? How do we protest then?'' 


 he asked.
