---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6dd9ceed483aea059fb76b9773d18f3c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am excited about being here. I 
want to thank the gentlelady for yielding. But I am going to put my 
prepared notes to the side here, because I don't think that is needed 
at this point, because we are well into debate now, Mr. Speaker, on 
this very issue of Iraq.

I would like to disclose to the House that I am not a member of the 
armed services. I have never served in a forward area. I wasn't even a 
member of the ROTC. But I am a Member of the U.S. Congress, and I have 
been federalized to come here to represent my constituents and the 
people of this great country.

I know sometimes we say some things on the floor that we don't really 
mean, and then there are some things we do really mean.

I had the opportunity to go to the White House today to speak to the 
President on this very issue, and I shared with him, delivered the 
message from the majority of the Members of this House of 
Representatives on a bipartisan basis, Republicans and Democrats that 
have come to this floor and said they are going to vote in the 
affirmative on this resolution because they don't believe in the 
escalation of troops.

A supermajority of the Members of the House have not served in the 
military. Now, do we respect and honor those that allow us still to 
salute one flag? You are 110 percent right as it relates to my feelings 
towards that. And I respect those Members who have been in the ROTC and 
came up through college and what have you and joined the Reserves and 
active duty. I trust their judgment. They have the right to say what 
they want to say when they want to say it.

But I shared with the President that this will pass. And he shook his 
head and said, ''I believe it will pass too, Kendrick.''

I said, ''Mr. President, here is something else that we have to be 
together on, and there has to be some level of compromise.''

Yes, this is a nonbinding resolution, but this is the first time that 
the President has ever had any, any, any pressure from the Congress on 
his original thoughts and what he says military commanders call for.

Now, since folks have been talking about who they are here on this 
floor and what they have done and chest beating and all, I have been a 
member of the Armed Services Committee. I am a member of the Ways and 
Means Committee now and still on Armed Services on a waiver.

I said I wanted to go back to Armed Services because we are at war 
and we have to make sense here in this House. We just can't say we are 
there and we got to stay there as long as we got to stay there, until 
the last insurgent says that they give up. Well, guess what? They are 
not going to give up. They are not going to give up, and they are not 
going to say, well, we are leaving. They are not going to say that.

So if our mission is to stay there as long as the last insurgent is 
there, so someone would not be looking at troops leaving on the plane 
saying we won, if that is the issue, then we have to readjust our 
thinking here.

Let me just share something with you. I said to the President, ''Yes, 
this is nonbinding, but it means a lot. It sends a message to the 
country that we heard them last November.''

You know the reason why this House is in the majority for the 
Democrats this time? You know why? Because the rubber stamp Republican 
Congress rubber stamped everything that the President sent to this 
House and to the Senate. And if this was about politics, I would just 
go home and sit and watch this debate on television and talk to my wife 
and tell my wife, guess what, sweetheart? The Democrats are about to 
gain a greater majority, because the American people are going to 
continue on a bipartisan way, not just Democrats, Republicans, 
independents, those that never voted before, will start voting because 
they think that we are not listening.

Now, I am going to share this also with you, what is very, very 
important. I said, ''Mr. President, it is nonbinding, but you are going 
to have a supplemental that is going to come through, and there has to 
be language in there that speaks to the point of readiness, speaks to 
the point of the fact that if you say we are going to send 20,000 
combat troops and 3,000 support personnel, that they have what they 
need to carry out the mission.''

The President heard what I had to say and came right back and said, 
''Kendrick, do you believe for a minute that I would put troops in 
harm's way if the military commanders did not tell us what we had?''

Respectfully I told the President, ''It has happened before.'' I have 
sat next to Mr. Ryan in the Armed Services Committee and watched four 
star generals answer the question, ''Do you have what you need?'' 
''Yes, we have it.''

Then we went to Iraq twice. Not once. Not when somebody told me that 
got off the plane that came back from Iraq and said, ''Kendrick, guess 
what.'' In Mosul, in Baghdad, folks getting ready to go out on patrol 
did not have up-armored vehicles. And I am a Member of Congress. You 
would think someone would bring up-armored vehicles out because they 
have Members of Congress there. And people are there saying, and the 
troops are there saying, soldiers, in the field, 18 months on the 
second deployment, saying, ''Congressman, I know what you think, but 
let me tell you something: We don't have what we need.''



They still do not have what they need. So I come to this floor, yes, 
with great passion. I was not a member of the military, but doggone it, 
I am a Member of Congress. I am not going to let any Member of Congress 
make me believe or any other Member believe that they are less of a 
Member because they do not have the credentials that the next person 
has.

What I do know is that someone woke up early Tuesday morning at 7:00 
a.m. to vote for representation in this U.S. House of Representatives, 
and doggone it, they are going to get, and those troops are going to 
get it.

So tomorrow it is going to be judgment time. Either you are with 
going in the old direction or in the new direction.

And the only reason that I have comfort, Mr. Speaker, tonight is the 
fact that I know that there is going to be a bipartisan vote on that 
board, just like it was on the minimum wage, just like it was as it 
relates to prescription drugs, just like it was in cutting back 
interest rates on student loans. All these bipartisan votes, and this 
is going to follow the number of those bipartisan votes. I know that we 
are going to start having the kind of oversight we have to have on this 
war.

I do not believe that it would be a full pull out of troops, and I am 
not even looking for that, but I am looking for management of this war 
in Iraq, and I am glad that we are having this debate.