---
---

# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `6deb0f92401c8824f0273d5e95e44286`
`Ms. KILPATRICK — 29 September 2008`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Madam Speaker, as we prepare to vote on one of the 
most important pieces of legislation in history, I rise in opposition 
to the Troubled Asset Relief Program, TARP. While I have nothing but 
respect, admiration and trust in Speaker Pelosi and House Financial 
Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank, this legislation, which was 
forced upon Congress by the Bush administration, provides no judicial 
review of individual home mortgages for my senior citizens, single 
parents and working families; is opposed by over 400 of our Nation's 
top economists and three Nobel laureates; does not adequately protect 
the American taxpayer; was not considered under regular order and does 
nothing to stimulate our stagnant economy.

The state of Michigan is one of the states hardest hit by home 
foreclosures, unemployment, and the loss of jobs. For poor people and 
low income people and many ethnic minorities, the Court is the option 
of last resort when you are on the brink of losing your home. As 
Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, I sent a letter to 
Speaker Pelosi requesting that such language--that would allow a 
citizen under the threat of foreclosure--to go to court to have a non-
partisan, objective judge review their financial circumstances and, if 
warranted, lower the principal of the mortgage. Under this legislation, 
judges do not have that option. Instead, this discretion is left up to 
the Secretary of the Treasury. While we are busy bailing out the 
financial markets, this bill does little for the folks on Main Street. 
This bill does not bailout my senior citizens who are behind on their 
mortgage. This bill does not help my working single parents who are 
facing foreclosure. This bill does not work for the majority of the 
people in the State of Michigan, who are staring down the barrel of 
losing their largest asset--their home.

Over 400 of our Nation's top economists, including three Nobel 
laureates in economics,


oppose this bill. The Washington Post reported on September 26, 2008, 
that over 200 economists ''have signed a petition organized by a 
University of Chicago professor objecting to the plan on the grounds 
that it could create perverse incentives, that it is too vague and that 
its long-run effects are unclear.'' While their reasons are many, Dean 
Baker of the Center on Economic and Policy Research, one of these 
economists, says that ''suppose the Paulson plan goes through. It is 
virtually certain that the economy will weaken further and the number 
of foreclosures and people without jobs will continue to rise. This is 
the fallout from a collapsing housing bubble . . . this bailout will 
make further stimulus much more difficult to sell.''

The Treasury Department admits that it has absolutely no factual 
basis for asking for $700 billion. We have asked the hard, tough and 
important questions of the Secretary and this administration, only to 
come up short.

This bill was not considered under Congress's regular order of 
conducting informational hearings from all sides, a mark-up of the bill 
in subcommittee bill in subcommittee and full committee, and finally, a 
floor vote. When we do not exercise the rules of this institution, we 
debase the rules, the regulations, and the standards we have to conduct 
the people's business. This deliberate process allows everyone to 
support, oppose, and amend legislation--an opportunity we did not have 
during this process. I have recommended that Congress establish a 
select committee, made up of the Chairmen and Ranking Minority Members 
of the Committees with jurisdiction, including the administration, to 
arrive at legislation that addresses the problem of illiquidity of 
credit markets, insolvency of businesses, and the hardship of 
foreclosures. This Committee would meet for three weeks, or a time 
certain, and would guarantee that as representatives of the American 
people, we have done our job.


This bill does not adequately protect the American taxpayer. As an 
Appropriator, I am designated as the protector of the people's purse. 
While the administration does not have $35 billion to spend on the 
health care for the children of families of working women and men; 
while the administration does not have the money to provide for Low 
Income Home Energy Assistance Program to help my seniors, low- and 
middle-income families pay for their lights, gas and oil heat; while 
the administration does not have the money to extend unemployment 
benefits; while the administration does not have the money for a summer 
jobs program for teens, adults and senior citizens; while the 
administration has $10 billion per month and one trillion dollars to 
spend on wars in Iraq and Afghanistan; when the Administration argues 
over $22 billion--less than 1 percent of the overall budget--on 
virtually every issue before the Appropriations--Committee, we do not 
have the money. However, we have $700 billion--and believe me, it will 
soon be $1 trillion--to bail out Wall Street. Something is wrong with 
this analysis, America.

We are being asked, once again, to ''trust'' the administration, when 
time is supposedly running out, and if nothing is done, the worse will 
befall all of us. Regrettably, as a Congress, we have been in this 
position before. Under duress, we were supposed to trust the 
administration that these tax cuts were going to save America. Under 
duress, we were told that if a bill that authorized wiretapping of law 
abiding, American taxpayers was needed as terrorists were at our door 
steps. Under duress, we were told that America was imminently under 
threat from Iraq. Now, again, at the last minute, we are being asked, 
under duress, to trust one trillion dollars to a Treasury Secretary who 
is out of office in less than three months?

Must we do something? Of course. There is a better way. We must 
ensure on regular order for this bill. We can use fewer American tax 
payer dollars--who did not get us into this problem in the first 
place--to ensure the stability of our financial markets. There are 
clearly better and safer alternatives. I am not an economics expert, 
but I do know that as the steward of the people's purse, I have a 
higher standard to which I am held accountable.