---
---

# HOUSING AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY ACT OF 2008
## `6dedbf720945eb0f9a5532ffb3157b37`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 23 July 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
3221, the ''American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 
2008''. This momentous legislation will jump-start the market for 
mortgages by establishing a true market value for the securities backed 
by these loans. H.R. 3221 responds directly to the current housing 
crisis facing this country, while providing the tools to prevent a 
repeat of these problems. This will help families facing foreclosure 
keep their homes, help other families avoid foreclosures in the future, 
and help the recovery of communities harmed by empty homes caught in 
the foreclosure process.

This legislation provides mortgage refinancing assistance to keep at 
least 400,000 families from losing their homes, to protect neighboring 
home values, and to help stabilize the housing market at no cost to 
American taxpayers. This legislation also protects taxpayers by 
requiring lenders and homeowners to take responsibility. This is not a 
bailout; in order to participate, lenders and mortgage investors must 
take significant losses by reducing the loan principal.

This legislation contains critical protections for taxpayers' 
dollars, including higher refinancing fees that establish a new FHA 
reserve to cover possible losses from defaults on these government-
backed mortgages. I support this legislation because only primary 
residences are eligible: NO speculators, investment properties, second 
or third homes will be refinanced and it provides $180 million for 
financial counseling and legal assistance to help families stay in 
their homes.

H.R. 3221 gives the Secretary of the Treasury the authority to 
increase the already existing line of credit to Freddie and Fannie for 
the next 18 months, as well as giving the Treasury Department standby 
authority to buy stock in those companies to provide confidence in the 
GSEs and stabilize housing finance markets.

While Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac both now meet the capital and 
liquidity requirements set by their regulator, given the severe turmoil 
in the markets, the standby authority is needed to increase market 
confidence and enable both enterprises to continue to raise capital and 
maintain the availability of mortgage credit. This bill requires the 
Treasury Secretary to make an emergency designation before using the 
authority--certifying that he is acting to provide stability to 
financial markets, prevent disruptions in the availability of mortgage 
finance, protect the taxpayers, and facilitate an orderly restoration 
of private markets. No spending would occur unless the Secretary 
certifies that there is an emergency that requires immediate action. 
However, if those conditions are not met, there would not be any 
increase in the deficit as a result of this legislation.


I support that this legislation provides $4 billion in emergency 
assistance (CDBG Funds) to communities hardest hit by the foreclosure 
and subprime crisis to purchase foreclosed homes, at a discount, and 
rehabilitate or redevelop the homes to stabilize neighborhoods and stem 
the significant losses in home values of neighboring homes. This 
legislation establishes a nationwide loan originator licensing and 
registration system that will set minimum standards for loan originator 
licensing substantially improving the oversight of mortgage brokers and 
bank loan officers. It also establishes improved mortgage disclosure 
requirements that will help ensure that mortgage borrowers understand 
their mortgage loan terms.

This legislation preserves the American Dream for Our Nation's 
Veterans. It increases the VA Home Loan limit, helping returning 
soldiers avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes. This legislation 
requires the Department of Defense to establish a counseling program 
for veterans and active service members facing financial difficulties 
and provides a moving benefit to servicemen and women who are forced to 
move out because their rental housing was foreclosed on. It also 
increases benefits paid to veterans with disabilities, such as 
blindness, to adapt their housing and allows the Veterans 
Administration to provide for improvements to homes of veterans with 
service-connected disabilities.

This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, 
frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions 
in our country today. This great Nation will endure as it has endured, 
will revive and will prosper. As President Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
stated in 1933, ''the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--
nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed 
efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' We must do just that. We 
must move forward and that is exactly what H.R. 3221 seeks to do.

This legislation will begin to repair, not bailout, the economy, by 
restoring confidence in the markets, limiting the damage to families 
and neighborhoods, and rejuvenating the communities with new affordable 
housing. Ironically, we celebrate the bailouts of yesteryear, when we 
believed that the power of the Federal Government was needed to get the 
country out of the Depression.

Were the banking reform laws, emergency relief programs, work relief 
programs, and agricultural programs, the Social Security Act, and 
programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers--were these 
bailouts? Many of the New Deal programs under President Roosevelt were 
considered bailouts at that time. And yet, these programs brought our 
country out of the Depression, rejuvenated out economy, and gave hope 
as we sought to deal with the War overseas.


















 Texas


Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois in pre-
foreclosures. Last year, Texas held the top seat for active 
foreclosures.

H.R. 3221 helps homeowners and only homeowners, not speculators or 
lenders. We cannot continue to stand by as things get worse. Texas 
reported 13,829 properties entering some stage of foreclosure in April, 
a 16 percent increase from the previous month and the most foreclosure 
filings reported by any state. The state documented the Nation's third 
highest state combined foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for 
every 582 households.


Many homeowners in my district are worried about missing their next 
house payment or their next home equity mortgage, or their interest 
rate going up. These families are under stress and in constant fear of 
losing their homes.



While this bill should not be the last word in housing legislation, 
it is a great beginning. This bill coupled with Congresswoman Maxine 
Waters's bill, H.R. 5818, the Neighborhood Stabilization Act, provides 
a good starting point in providing Americans with relief.













Texas and what HUD is Doing


In March, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), 
announced the Texas State Program and the cities of Houston and New 
Braunfels will receive a total of $234,868,077 to support community 
development and produce more affordable housing. HUD's annual funding 
will also provide down-payment assistance to first-time homebuyers; 
assist individuals and families who might otherwise be living on the 
streets; and offer real housing solutions for individuals with HIV/
AIDS.

While HUD is working to help Americans, we must all do our part. We 
need to pass H.R. 3221, and we need to continue to push in a bipartisan 
manner, legislation that will ease gas and energy costs, the rising 
costs of food, and the ever-rising cost of healthcare.

We are spending billions of dollars on the war in Iraq. I support our 
troops but I am dismayed at how our support for a war that needs to 
become less military and more diplomatic in nature, has disrupted our 
ability to take care of things at home.