# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2194, COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS,  ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACT OF 2010
## `6df1c8830e320148e51e869257fdcb7b`
`Mr. REYES — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this 
legislation. The provisions contained in this act come after repeated 
attempts by the U.S. and partner nations to halt Iran's nuclear weapons 
program- and curtail aggressive Iranian overtures around the globe-
Tehran continues to sponsor, train, and equip terrorist organizations 
in the Middle East, act as a destabilizing force in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and deploy Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps-Qods Force 
unconventional warfare operatives into the Western Hemisphere. The 
potential for a nuclear-armed Iran, when combined with the Iranian 
regime's volatile rhetoric and ambiguous intentions, poses a serious 
threat to the security of the United States, our troops serving in the 
Middle East, and our allies. The President and his administration have 
taken important steps to dissuade Iran from continuing to pursue 
nuclear weapons. The passage of this legislation sends a clear message 
that Iran's continued defiance will lead to significant, negative 
consequences for the Iranian regime.

In addition to imposing sanctions on refined petroleum to Iran, this 
legislation will broaden the entities affected by sanctions to include 
foreign entities that sell developmental energy technology, services, 
or information to Iran. This act also prohibits foreign banks from 
doing business in the U.S. if they deal with blacklisted Iranian 
institutions involved in the development of weapons of mass destruction 
or the promotion of international terrorism.

I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for demonstrating 
such clear solidarity on this issue. I urge Iranian leaders to 
carefully consider the high costs of increased isolation brought about 
by their continued irresponsibility.
