---
---

# None
## `6df5f64f6ce619f7ffabd09f85dabc01`
`Mr. HUNTER â€” 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank my friend for yielding, and with that kind of 
introduction, I will just shut up and sit down. I thank him for that 
very kind introduction.

I just got back from Iraq with Congressmen Dan Boren and Ken Calvert 
and Randy Neugebauer. We were at Landstuhl Hospital in Germany, which 
is the first place where our wounded soldiers and marines are taken 
after they have been wounded on the battlefields of Afghanistan and 
Iraq. They are stabilized and treated there, and then they are flown 
back to Walter Reed and Bethesda.

We went over the new technologies that are being utilized right now 
and the new focus being put on our wounded soldiers. Let me tell you, 
that operation is first class.

One thing, and the gentleman talked about Walter Reed and I thought 
it might be appropriate to bring up an issue that all Members of this 
body can participate in and help in, and it is this: last year I 
started in San Diego in Balboa Hospital, which is where a lot of our 
wounded marines are, and in Walter Reed. We started these forums for 
getting jobs for our guys and ladies who have gone through their 
therapy, they are being separated from the service, they have been 
wounded and they are going to go back into the private sector.

So one thing that I thought we would do out in Balboa, and we did one 
of them here at Walter Reed, was to bring in people from industry and 
introduce them to our wounded soldiers and marines and try to help get 
them jobs. Hopefully, a young marine would stand up and say I am a 
generator mechanic from such and such a town in Vermont or Maine or 
California or Iowa, and we would be able to match them up with a 
company that might need such a talent in their company.

So we started doing that, and the first session I had was in the 
dayroom in Balboa Hospital in San Diego, and we actually had CEOs from 
major corporations in the dayroom and the marines all came in and told 
us what they did and introduced themselves, and we immediately had a 
number of people hired right there at that point in time.

Well, I got back, and the Armed Services staff told me you may be 
breaking the law.

I said, What are you talking about?

They said, We have talked to the ethics lawyers on the Hill and there 
may be a question if a Member of Congress tries to help somebody get a 
job with private industry. There is the implication that reciprocal 
treatment will be required at some point: you are getting a favor and 
you will give a favor back.

I said, What can we do?

They said, You need legislation that will end up with the Ethics 
Committee and House Administration Committee expressly permitting 
Members of Congress to help get jobs for our wounded soldiers and 
marines.

So last year, a month or two before we broke, we passed a resolution 
in the full House urging the Ethics Committee and the House 
Administration Committee to give us express permission to get jobs for 
our wounded folks. Every Member of the House can help us on this. I 
know that Vic Snyder who heads up the Personnel Subcommittee on the 
great Armed Services Committee and John McHugh are very much supportive 
of this.

Hopefully, we will get this recommendation up before the Ethics 
Committee and the House Administration Committee. At that point I can 
see this entire House of Representatives doing great work because you 
can take a young man or woman from a town in America who has had an 
injury and gone through rehab and is looking to go into the private 
sector. A lot are staying with the service, but the ones that aren't 
staying with the service, we could call up the Congressman from that 
particular district that young person is going back to and find out if 
there is a company that needs that generator mechanic or that young man 
or woman who is interested in law enforcement or some other profession.



So I think there is a lot of opportunities here and I look forward to 
working with you and with the great gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
Hayes) and all of our colleagues to try to put this together.

