# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 505, NATIVE HAWAIIAN GOVERNMENT  REORGANIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `6dfbb893c4565a0f9650f286cc5113f4`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance 
of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I will be asking Members to oppose the previous question 
so that I may amend the rule to have Speaker Pelosi, in consultation 
with Republican Leader Boehner, immediately appoint conferees to H.R. 
2642, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act 
for 2008.

Two days ago a number of news publications, including Roll Call, 
reported that the Democrat leadership intends to play political games 
and hold off on sending any appropriations bills to President Bush so 
that they can use an upcoming anticipated veto of the Labor-HHS 
appropriations bill to serve as ''an extension of their successful 
public relations campaign on the State Children's Health Insurance 
Program.'' Roll Call is the one that made that observation on October 
22, 2007.

While the House Democrat leadership plays politics on this issue, 
however, our Nation's veterans are paying the price. The Senate has 
already done its work and appointed conferees for this bill. And for 
every day that House Democrats allow the veterans funding bill to 
languish without conferees for their only political advantage, our 
Nation's veterans lose $18.5 million, money that could be used for 
veterans housing, veterans health care, and other important veterans 
support activities.

On October 18, American Legion National Commander Marty Conaster, 
five national vice commanders and all 55 Legion national executive 
committee members sent Speaker Pelosi a letter pleading with her to put 
partisanship aside and provide this funding for the troops.

Mr. Speaker, I include a copy of the letter for the Congressional 
Record.






















The American Legion,
















 Indianapolis, IN, October 18, 2007.


 Hon. Nancy Pelosi,


 Speaker, House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Speaker Pelosi: Today ends the Fall meeting of The 


 American Legion's National Executive Committee, at The 


 American Legion's National Headquarters in Indianapolis, 


 Indiana. The National Executive Committee consists of an 


 elected leader from each of The American Legion's 55 


 Departments (50 States, the District of Columbia and four 


 foreign countries). In accordance with The American Legion's 


 National Constitution and By-laws, the National Executive 


 Committee serves as The American Legion's governing body.



 The National Commander Marty Conatser briefed The National 


 Executive Committee on an array of issues to include the 


 status of the VA budget for FY 2008. The fiscal activities of 


 the 110th Congress--the FY 2007 Continuing Resolution, the 


 Budget Resolution for FY 2008, and the passage of the 


 Military Construction, Veterans' Affairs and Related Agencies 


 Appropriations for FY 2008 were reviewed.



 However, in trying to grasp why such a bipartisan bill, 


 which passed overwhelmingly in both chambers, still hasn't 


 moved in over a month is rather difficult, especially since 


 the President has already said he would not veto the bill, 


 even though it exceeds his recommendations. Understanding why 


 the appropriations process has come to a complete halt is 


 difficult. What is preventing the appointment of conferees, 


 the Conference Committee, or passage of a Conference Report?



 We are now in the new fiscal year with no idea when the Mil 


 Con-VA appropriations will be passed. If history repeats 


 itself, this standoff may last well into the second quarter 


 of the fiscal year. This uncertainty is disturbing to not 


 only The American Legion and other veterans' and military 


 service organizations, but to every veteran who is dependent 


 on VA for timely access to quality health care, earned 


 benefits, and other services provided by a grateful nation.



 Madam Speaker, the newest generation of wartime veterans 


 are reporting to VA medical facilities every day as troops 


 are returning from deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. Some 


 will be determined to be service-connected disabled because 


 of medical conditions incurred or aggravated while on active-


 duty. Others may very well have invisible scars that need 


 attention as soon as possible. As VA welcomes new patients, 


 the existing patient population cannot be ignored nor should 


 their health care be rationed due to limited available 


 resources. There are veterans dependent on VA as their life-


 support system.



 The American Legion represents 2.6 million wartime 


 veterans, but also speaks for the 24 million veterans of the 


 United States Armed Forces and their families.



 Please continue the appropriations process--name conferees, 


 convene the Conference Committee, and pass the Conference 


 Report.





 Sincerely,




 Marty Conatser, National Commander; Thomas L. Burns, Jr. 





 (DE), National Vice Commander; Randall A. Fisher (KY), 





 National Vice Commander; David A. Korth (WI), National 





 Vice Commander; James L. Van Horn (AK), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Ross Rogers (AK), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Peggy G. Dettori (AK), National 





 Vice Commander; Donald Hayden (MN), National Vice 





 Commander; Floyd W. Turner (AL), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Julius Maklary (AZ), National Executive 





 Committeeman; James W. Hackney (CA), National Executive 





 Committeeman.




 Jeff Luginbuel (CO), National Executive Committeeman; 





 John J. Jackson (DE), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Robert J. Proctor (FL), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Ray Hendrix (GA), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Cleve Rice (ID), National Executive 





 Committeeman; W. Darrell Hansel







 (IN), National Executive Committeeman; David O. Warnken 





 (KS), National Executive Committeeman; Charles D. 





 Aucoin (LA), National Executive Committeeman; Dr. 





 Gordon B. Browning (MD), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Richard W. Anderson (CT), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Paul H. ___, for Walter W. 





 Norris (DC), National Executive Committeeman; William 





 E. Marshall (France), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Andrew W. Johnson (HI), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Kenneth J. Trumbull (IL), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Michael E. Wanser (IA), 





 National Executive Committeeman; Randall Coffman (KY), 





 National Executive Committeeman; Robert A. Owen (ME), 





 National Executive Committeeman; James F. Army (MA), 





 National Executive Committeeman.




 John E. Hayes (Mexico), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Virgil V. Persing (MN), National Executive 





 Committeeman; David N. Voyles (MO), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Michael J. Landkamer (NE), National 





 Executive Committeeman; John E. Neylon (NH), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Bruce Jorgensen (NM), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Jerry L. Hedrick (NC), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Carl W. Swisher (OH), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Charles E. Schmidt (OR), 





 National Executive Committeeman; Gerald N. Dennis (MI), 





 National Executive Committeeman; Charles E. Langley 





 (MS), National Executive Committeeman; Bob O. Beals 





 (MT), National Executive Committeeman; Ron Gutzman 





 (NV), National Executive Committeeman; William A. 





 Rakestraw, Jr. (NJ), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Paul Mitras (NY), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Curtis O. Twete (ND), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Bobby J. Longenbaugh (OK), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Alfred Pirolli (PA), National Executive 





 Committeeman.




 William J. Kelly (Philippines), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Ernest Gerundio (RI), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Paul A. Evenson (SD), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Ronald G. Cherry (TX), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Leslie V. Howe (VT), National Executive 





 Committeeman; William F. Schrier (WA), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Arthur D. Herbison (WI), 





 National Executive Committeeman; Carlos Orria-Medina 





 (PR), National Executive Committeeman; Billy W. Bell 





 (SC), National Executive Committeeman; Jennings B. 





 Loring (TN), National Executive Committeeman; William 





 E. Christoffersen (UT), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Rob R. Gordon, Jr. (VA), National 





 Executive Committeeman; William W. Kile (WV), National 





 Executive Committeeman; ------ ------, for Irvin A. 





 Quick (WY), National Executive Committeeman.


Mr. Speaker, on that same day, the commander in chief of the Veterans 
of Foreign Wars, General Lisicki, also urged Speaker Pelosi and the 
Democrat leadership to put partisanship aside for the benefit of our 
Nation's veterans and troops. These pleas from the American Legion and 
the VFW fall on the heels of multiple requests from Republican Members 
of this House to both Speaker Pelosi and Democrat Majority Leader 
Senator Reid, urging them to end their PR campaign and begin conference 
work on the Veterans appropriations bill.

Unfortunately, it appears as though all of these commonsense requests 
have fallen on deaf ears and our Nation's veterans are being forced to 
pay the price for continued Democrat partisanship and lack of 
leadership on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, I include for the Congressional Record these two letters 
so everyone watching today's debate across the country can see the 
efforts that have been made by the Republican Party to end this impasse 
on the important issue of providing adequate funding for those who have 
sacrificed so much on behalf of the country.

















Congress of the United States,
















 Washington, DC, September 17, 2007.


 Office of the Speaker,


 U.S. Capitol,


 Washington, DC.



 Madam Speaker: We write to urge you in the strongest 


 possible terms to reach a prompt agreement on the conference 


 report on the FY2008 Military Construction and Veterans 


 Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 2642). Few issues are more 


 important than adequate funding for our Nation's veterans. 


 The leadership in the House cannot allow this critically 


 important funding to fall victim to the usual partisan 


 wrangling which occurs all too often in Washington.



 Veterans should not be used as tools for political 


 bargaining and gamesmanship. Both the House and Senate passed 


 the FY08 MilCon-Veterans appropriations with overwhelming 


 majorities because our commitment to veterans rises above 


 partisan squabbling. Tragedies such as the recent revelations 


 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center must never be repeated. 


 The findings of insufficient care at Walter Reed and other 


 facilities should be seen by Congress as a mandate to finish 


 the work and live up to the promises we have made to our 


 veterans.



 After decades of flat funding, total VA budget rose from 


 $48 billion in FY 2001 to approximately $70 billion in FY 


 2006, a 46 percent increase. This year, the House voted to 


 increase funding by $6 billion over FY07, one of the largest 


 in the 77 year history of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 


 Both the Senate and House versions received overwhelming 


 majority support passing by a vote of 409-2 in the House and 


 92-1 in the Senate.



 Earlier in the year, the new Majority agreed they would 


 continue the trend of significant increases in veterans 


 funding begun by the Republican Congress. We ask you to honor 


 that agreement and see that the commitment we made to our 


 veterans is honored.



 We must never forget the sacrifice of our veterans. As 


 members of Congress, we have a solemn obligation to fulfill 


 our promises to them. We ask for you to look past the 


 heightened partisanship of our times and unite us on this 


 issue by making it a first priority to quickly bring a stand 


 alone Veterans appropriations bill through conference so the 


 Congress may present the President with a bill by October 1, 


 2007.



 We stand ready to assist you in reaching this goal.





 Sincerely,




 Stevan Pearce; Steve Buyer; Don Young; Greg Walden; 





 Marilyn N. Musgrave; Ron Lewis; Jim Saxton; ------; 





 Thomas Price; Tim Walberg; Mary Fallin; John Kline; 





 Ginny Brown-Waite; David Obey; Tom Tancredo; John L. 





 Mica; Mark Souder; Louie Gohmert; Rick Renzi; Mario 





 Diaz-Balart; Jean Schmidt; Gus M. Bilirakis; Adrian 





 Smith; Pete Sessions; Paul Ryan; Dana Rohrabacher; 





 Spencer Bachus; K. Michael Conaway; Tom Feeney; J. 





 Randy Forbes; Jon C. Porter; John Shimkus; Jim Gerlach; 





 Mike Ferguson; Mary Bono; Dean Heller; Jeff Miller; Sue 





 Myrick; Geoff Davis; Thelma Drake; Steve King; Jeb 





 Hensarling; Barbara Cubin; Scott Garrett.