---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS MESSAGE HOUR
## `6e08b39a16500424c8b18df3887eea6e`
`Ms. LEE — 31 March 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Let me thank the gentlelady for her leadership and for 
yielding and for organizing these very important special orders, also, 
really, for reminding us tonight of much of this unfinished business of 
our great country, and laying out the glaring disparities that we're 
witnessing in the African American community; but also, what our 
economic empowerment agenda is of the Congressional Black Caucus. So, 
thank you, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones.

Millions of Americans are one paycheck, that is, if they have a 
paycheck, away from poverty. Now, the numbers speak for themselves. Gas 
prices are at record levels, averaging, in my district, $3.73 a gallon, 
even as oil is traded at over $100 a barrel and big oil companies are 
reaping in record profits. Foreclosures have skyrocketed, putting 
hundreds of thousands of people out on the street. The American dream 
of homeownership is quickly turning into a nightmare for many 
hardworking individuals and families in our country.

In my district, in Alameda County, we are projected to lose nearly 
4,700 homes to foreclosures due to the subprime mortgage crisis, 
eliminating $3.2 billion in home equity value. That's equal to a drop 
in home equity by almost $8,500 for each homeowner in my district. 
Meanwhile, food prices have risen, squeezing recipients of food stamps 
even as the number of people expected to enroll in the program will 
reach a record 28 million people in the next fiscal year.

Health care costs are going through the roof, even as this 
administration is posing massive cuts in funding for Medicare and 
Medicaid, and African Americans continue to be the hardest hit. As of 
February 2008, the unemployment rate for African Americans was over 8.3 
percent, nearly double the national average of 4.3 percent. Among the 
African American community, poverty rates are 2.5 times higher than the 
national average. Even more disturbing, almost 40 percent of African 
American children under 5 years of age live in poverty. And all the 
while, African Americans continue to be the target for, as we talked 
about earlier, subprime loans.

African Americans are three times more likely to have a subprime loan 
than whites, accounting for 52 percent of all subprime loans. And as 
the housing market has collapsed, estimates indicate that African 
Americans alone will lose between 164 to $213 billion in home equity 
value during this recession.

It's long past time for Congress to address the burden of this 
economic downturn on the African American community and other 
communities of color and address the ongoing lack of opportunity in 
minority communities in America. Even in the face of this massive 
housing crisis and impending recession, growing unemployment and the 
highest number of applicants for food stamps since the program's 
inception, the Bush administration wants to cut funding, mind you, cut 
funding for the most vital programs so that he can continue to fund his 
failed occupation in Iraq. This is partly due to Iraq, billions of 
dollars that have been spent,


this economic downturn. I personally call this ''The Iraq Recession.''

At nearly half a trillion dollars, the occupation of Iraq and the 
resulting Iraq recession has wasted too much of American treasure, 
drained too much of our American resources, and most importantly, 
claimed too many American lives. And we cannot dismiss the toll that 
this occupation has had on the economic security of our Nation and on 
the average American family who will feel the impact of these expenses 
for years to come.

The Joint Economic Committee estimates the total bill for the war 
through 2008 will cost the typical family of four a full $16,500. Can 
you imagine what a family of four can do with $16,500? This conflict 
has claimed the lives of more than 4,000 brave members of our Armed 
Forces and has resulted in injuries to more than 28,000 others.

Five years after the invasion and occupation of Iraq, 47 million 
Americans are living without health insurance, 47 million. And more 
than 36 million people continue to live in poverty, at least 2 million 
of which have fallen into poverty since 2003.

Five years later, it is projected that more than 2 million American 
families will lose their homes to foreclosure, primarily over the next 
2 years. And worse, as the demand is increasing for programs serving 
children, the elderly and the poor, and those facing the loss of their 
income, more than half of our States face serious budget shortfalls 
that will force them to cut back or even eliminate programs that serve 
the most vulnerable of our populations.



So, Mr. Speaker, we must address the needs and the will of our 
country by bringing an end to this occupation and to the immeasurable 
costs that will continue to be exacted on the physical and economic 
security of the American people for generations to come.

Forty-one years ago, Dr. Martin Luther King was, as he said, 
''compelled to see the war as the enemy of the poor and attack it as 
such.'' Of course Dr. King was referring to the Vietnam War. But his 
understanding of the relationship between the vast sums spent dropping 
bombs in a foreign country, and the resulting lack of funding for 
programs that relieve hunger and poverty are just as true today as they 
were back then, especially now with this economic downturn.

A recent survey revealed that 68 percent of Americans believe that 
ending the war and occupation in Iraq is an important step the United 
States Government must take to respond to the current economic 
recession. So we must put an end to this occupation, and we must fund a 
real economic stimulus plan that expands unemployment assistance and 
food stamp benefits, provides housing assistance and foreclosure relief 
for homeowners, and expands Medicaid payments to States through the 
Federal medical assistance percentage.

We need to pass a real bankruptcy reform bill. I believe this one 
that we're working on now is H.R. 3609. It's called the Emergency Home 
Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act of 2007, that will give 
struggling homeowners a fighting chance to stay in their homes.

We've got to reauthorize and realize that HOPE VI is an important, 
important housing initiative, and pass H.R. 3524, to finally stop 
putting an end to predatory lending. And instead of spending billions 
to bail out Bear Stearns, we should really be investing that money to 
train our workforce and to expand green jobs and eradicate poverty.

So as we remember 3 years ago, Hurricane Katrina served as a real 
rude wake up call to the Nation and the continuing inequality that 
plagues minority communities, especially the African communities in 
America. Katrina opened the eyes of many Americans about the continuing 
burden of poverty that often isolates and traps generations of 
Americans of color, African Americans, in a cycle of poverty and 
disenfranchisement. So we cannot ignore the legacy of Katrina, nor can 
we ignore the legacy of Dr. King's words.

So this week, as we approach the 40th anniversary of Dr. King's 
assassination, let us all make a commitment to honor his vision and his 
life's work. We must end this occupation of Iraq, and we must enact a 
real economic stimulus plan, so that the American people can move 
forward, take care of their families, come out of this downturn and 
really begin to live the type of life, the quality of life that they so 
deserve in the wealthiest and most powerful country in the world.

Thank you, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, for giving us the 
opportunity tonight to talk about the real suffering that people are 
feeling; but giving people some hope that there are many here in 
Washington, D.C. on the battlefield trying to turn this around.