# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `6e18f41dc384a917427590a44cf0c936`
`Mr. INOUYE — 4 February 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Madam President, I rise in opposition to the Feingold-
McCain amendment. Yesterday, I received a message from the Obama 
administration that concludes that the economy faces its most serious 
crisis since the Great Depression, and I think that is something to 
which we all agree.

It goes further and says the economic recovery package now being 
considered by this body is an essential step in putting the economy 
back on the path of growth.

Our President, President Obama, has asked the Congress to send a bill 
to him before the February recess, and I believe we have that 
responsibility to act quickly and responsibly. Therefore, I believe now 
is not the time to debate controversial legislation that is not 
relevant to economic recovery.

There are no earmarks contained in the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act that we are now considering before the Senate. I 
maintain that now is not the time to debate Senate floor procedures for 
the consideration of appropriations bills.

However, I oppose this amendment on its merits. This amendment is an 
attempt to undermine Congress's power of the purse. Under this 
amendment, congressionally directed spending items that are not 
specifically authorized could be stripped from legislation.

As Senators are well aware, Congress is often called upon to approve 
spending that is not yet authorized. In a January 15, 2009, report the 
Congressional Budget Office concluded that in recent years, the total 
amount of unauthorized appropriations averaged between $160 billion and 
$170 billion per year.


In fact, for the current fiscal year, there are over $718 billion 
worth of authorizations that expire before September 30, 2009. This 
includes funding for housing programs, energy programs, environmental 
programs, transportation programs, the Low-Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program, homeland security programs, public health programs, 
veterans programs, and on and on.

This amendment could tie the Senate in knots. Conference reports 
could be amended and returned to the other body, and once amended the 
House could further amend the bill. The regular order for producing 
spending bills is the best prescription for producing responsible 
spending bills, not creating new rules that will make the process so 
cumbersome that we will not be able to complete our work.

This legislation would also hand over to the President the authority 
to determine what spending should be considered by the Senate. Under 
this amendment, if the President requests funding for an unauthorized 
program, the funding would not be subject to a point of order. The 
Senate should not give such power to any President.

Nor is it clear to me why it would be all right for authorizers to 
authorize earmarks, for the President to earmark funds, but Members who 
are not authorizers could not earmark funds in spending bills.

I remind the Senate that the last highway authorization bill 
contained over 6,474 earmarks, and the last water authorization bill 
contained over 600 earmarks.

I believe Congress took significant action during the 110th Congress 
to add unprecedented levels of transparency and accountability to the 
process of earmarking funds for specific projects.

Under the rules in 2007, each bill must be accompanied by a list 
identifying each earmark that it includes and which Member requested 
it. Those lists are made available online before the bill is ever voted 
on.

In the Senate, each Senator is required to send the committee a 
letter providing the name and location of the intended recipient, the 
purpose of the earmark, and a letter certifying that neither the 
Senator nor the Senator's immediate family has a financial interest in 
the item requested. This certification is available on the Internet for 
at least 48 hours prior to a floor vote on the bill.

We also significantly reduce the level of funding for earmarks. In 
the 2008 bill, the total dollar amount of earmarks for nonproject-based 
accounts was reduced by 43 percent. In the fiscal year 2009 
appropriations bill, we will further reduce earmarks.

In our continuing effort to provide unprecedented transparency to the 
process, the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and I 
announced new reforms to begin in the 2010 bills.

To offer more opportunity for public scrutiny of Member requests, 
Members will be required to post information on their earmark requests 
on their Web sites at the time the request is made, explaining the 
purpose of the earmark and why it is a valuable use of taxpayers' 
funds.

To increase public scrutiny of committee decisions, earmark 
disclosure tables will be made publicly available the same day as the 
Senate subcommittee or the full committee takes action.

We are committed to keeping earmark funding levels below 1 percent of 
discretionary spending in subsequent years.

The new requirements included in this amendment will hamstring the 
Senate from fulfilling its responsibility. The amendment says no funds 
can be included in appropriations bills unless already included in an 
authorization bill that has passed the Senate during this session.

I remind my colleagues the Senate has not passed a foreign affairs 
authorization bill in many years. All these measures aren't authorized. 
In the past 7 years, we haven't enacted an intelligence authorization 
bill. We don't have one for last year or the year before. It has been 7 
years since the Senate passed an authorization bill for Customs. Should 
we stop funding the construction of ports of entry on our borders? The 
Environment and Public Works Committee does not report legislation 
through the Senate to authorize specific Federal buildings. Does that 
mean we should stop repairing and improving the security or 
constructing Federal buildings that house over 1 million Federal 
employees? The Agricultural Research Service has never been authorized. 
Yet it has existed for 56 years. Should we stop funding agricultural 
research? The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has never 
been authorized--NOAA has never been authorized--so does that mean we 
should stop funding for hurricane forecasting and severe weather 
forecasting, tsunami forecasting? Congress has not authorized juvenile 
justice funding for the last 2 years. Does that mean we stop funding to 
keep kids out of gangs and in school?


Under this amendment, the Senate would be required to defer action on 
all items which it feels are important when the companion authorization 
bill is tied up. Are we going to allow the filibuster of an 
authorization bill to stop Congress from exercising its 
constitutionally mandated power of the purse? This amendment also 
applies to items which have been approved by the House. Any such item 
could be stricken if the authorization bill has not been completed.

Last year, we faced a situation on the Defense Subcommittee, which I 
am privileged to chair, in which we completed action on the 
Appropriations Act before we completed action on the Authorization Act. 
We were told by the President, the Department of Defense, the 
commanders on the field in Iraq


and Afghanistan: You cannot stall this. So we passed the appropriations 
bill before the authorizing bill. Yet under this amendment, all the 
House items could be stricken by the Senate.

The Constitution gives the power of the purse to the Congress. It is 
our job to use that power responsibly. We have put procedures in place 
to make the process transparent and to hold Members accountable for 
their spending decisions. Rule XVI already establishes rules against 
funding and including unauthorized spending in general appropriations 
bills. Rule XLIV already establishes rules concerning congressionally 
directed spending items.

I can't speak for all my colleagues, but I can say this much. I was 
not elected by my constituents in Hawaii to be a rubberstamp. They 
expected me to use my initiative and to address my colleagues and tell 
them about the urgent requests we need. I could go on and on and tell 
you about many of the projects that have been part of the law today 
because we took congressional initiative. Therefore, I urge a ''no'' 
vote on the Feingold-McCain amendment.

I yield the floor.