---
---

# MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR THE VICTIMS AND FAMILIES OF THE SEPTEMBER 11,
## `6e1948a63d2e1dbe15b7a071cafc9e02`
`Mr. INHOFE — 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, we have had two ceremonies today: one at 
the Pentagon and one on the west steps remembering what happened 7 
years ago. I think everyone remembers what they were doing at that time 
7 years ago. It happens that was the time I had the State chamber of 
commerce from my State of Oklahoma in. I was speaking with them. I 
remember so well being on the ninth floor of the Hart Building where we 
had a panoramic view. They were looking at me, and I saw all this smoke 
going up, not having any idea what it was. I actually witnessed what 
happened at the Pentagon.

Today as we think back, most of us know someone or have a friend who 
was killed on that fateful day in the greatest, most significant raid 
on our land in our country's history. Seven years later, we continue to 
fight for the oppressed and, more importantly, help the oppressed to 
fight for themselves. With our coalition of partners and allies, we 
continue to take the fight to the enemy of our place of choosing, 
keeping them there instead of here.

I had the privilege--and it really has been a privilege--to be in the 
area where the terrorists were, I think, more than any other Member. I 
have made some 18 trips, maybe more than that, to Africa, the Horn of 
Africa, Iraq, Afghanistan, and that area. We have taken away al-Qaida's 
base of operations, freedom of movement, forcing them into the no-man's 
land between Pakistan and Afghanistan. We have trained the Afghan 
National Army as they have grown to 65,000 troops. I am proud of this 
accomplishment. It was Oklahoma's 45th in charge of training the Afghan 
Army. I was over there, and I saw the pride in the faces of the Afghans 
as they were learning to defend themselves, learning to fight, learning 
to fight with dignity. We have trained the Afghan National Army as they 
have grown to 65,000 troops, and they are on track to meet their 
mandated strength of 82,000 by 2009.

We have defeated the Taliban in every encounter and have killed or 
captured over 60 of their senior leaders. We helped Afghanistan rebuild 
its infrastructure with over 1,000 bridges and 10,000 kilometers of 
roads. There are now more Afghan children in school than at any other 
time in history.

That is something we seem to forget, turning to Iraq, what is 
happening right now and the impact this is having in the Middle East 
where for the first time in the history of that country there are women 
going to school. They have been liberated from a tyrannical leader.

I was honored back in 1991 to be on what was called the first freedom 
flight. It was Democrats and Republicans. Tony Coelho was there and 
several others. But also the Ambassador from Kuwait to the United 
States was there. This was in 1991 at the end of the first gulf war. It 
was so close to the end of it that Iraq did not know it was over yet. 
They were still burning the fields off.

The Ambassador and his daughter--he had a 7- or 8-year-old daughter--
wanted to see what their mansion on the Persian Gulf looked like 
because they had not seen it during the war. When we got there, we 
found it was used by Saddam Hussein for one of his headquarters. The 
little girl wanted to go to her bedroom and see her little animals. 
Saddam Hussein had used that bedroom for a torture chamber. There were 
body parts there.

During that period after 1991, many of us had the opportunity to look 
into the open graves, to see what a tyrannical person this was, hear 
the stories from firsthand observers who said people were begging to be 
dropped into the vats of acid head first or into the grinders.

Weapons of mass destruction were used on the Kurds up north, and 
hundreds of thousands of people were killed. The way he killed them 
with the type of gas, it was like burning yourself up from the inside. 
People described what the people went through.

Some on this floor and a lot of people on the campaign trail say no 
terrorists were in Iraq prior to the liberation. Evidence has shown the 
contrary. I say this because, first of all, if there had never been 
even a discussion of weapons of mass destruction, just the things that 
this guy had done to the hundreds of thousands of people was enough 
justification for going in. We, as a free nation, cannot allow that 
type of thing to happen.

Now we find, yes, there were terrorist training camps there. Sargat 
was an international training camp in northeastern Iraq near the 
Iranian border. It was run by Ansar al-Islam, a known terrorist 
organization. Based on information from the U.S. Army Special Forces, 
operators who led the attack on Sargat said it is more than plausible 
that al-Qaida members trained in that particular area. The Green Berets 
discovered among the dead in Sargat foreign ID cards, airline ticket 
receipts, visas, and passports from Yemen, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, 
Morocco, and many other places.

Salman Pak was the name of another city there. That is where we found 
the fuselage of a 707. That is where they were training people--all the 
evidence was there--to hijack airlines. That was a terrorist training 
camp. That is in Iraq.

I don't think we will ever know whether the perpetrators of the 
tragedy 7 years ago today were trained in Salman Pak. I don't think 
there is any way of ever knowing that. Certainly, that is what they 
were doing at that time.

So in the aftermath of September 11 we have worked together to do 
things to preclude this kind of attack from happening--the PATRIOT Act, 
we created the Department of Homeland Security, the position of 
Director of National Intelligence to try to coordinate.

One of the things I remember when I came to the Senate from the House 
in 1994 is my predecessor was David Boren who happened to have been the 
chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. He said: I am hoping you 
may be able to do something I have never been able to do, and that is 
to get all these competing intelligence agencies--such as DIA and 
others--to work together. That wasn't happening until 9/11. That shock 
treatment is what it took to get people to work together. In doing so, 
we know many potential attacks on our country have been prevented.

When we look at what we are commemorating today and the people we 
know, the loved ones we lost, we recognize we have done some things we 
should have done before probably. Those of us who have traveled to 
Israel know they live from day to day not knowing if, when they are 
sitting in a coffee shop, it is going to blow up or when getting on a 
bus there are going to be bombs going off. They have learned to live 
with it. We now have


learned the lesson of 7 years ago. We have taken precautions. We have 
prevented attacks from happening. We have evidence of all kinds of 
things--water systems that were going to be contaminated--and we think 
of the tragedy of 7 years ago today.

If we look at the potential tragedy of an incoming missile hitting a 
major city in America, we would be looking at maybe 300,000 people. 
That is what it is all about now: making sure nothing of this dimension 
or anything else will happen again.

This is a very special day, and it is one that is very meaningful to 
most of us--I think to all Americans. One thing we can do is remember, 
remember that terrorists are still out there. I was asked on a radio 
show this morning: There are so many people out there saying, why don't 
you just forget this thing? That was 7 years ago. Why keep bringing it 
up? Why keep stirring it up? Why can't we get beyond that?

My response was we cannot do that because of what happened to so many 
people. But more importantly than that is this is a constant reminder. 
Every year we need to be reminded that there are terrorists still out 
there. They hate everybody who is in this building, and they hate this 
building. You think about what could have happened 7 years ago if those 
very brave people in Pennsylvania hadn't stopped what was happening. 
This dome, most likely, would not be here. It was an easy target. That 
is the reminder.


The terrorists are still out there. They still want to kill us. They 
are still cowards. They still have no country and they have no cause, 
except to destroy us. So this reminder is here today, and I just, at 
this time, want to pay homage once again to the families of all those 
who lost their loved ones in the tragedy that took place.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.