---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `6e1fa4a7d684a0227b0bc25cab1da85a`
`Mr. REID — 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Before Senator Inouye is recognized, let me say to the 
Senate, this is one of the most crucial pieces of legislation we will 
deal with this entire Congress. It involves funding of the troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. We wish to make sure everyone who has any concern 
about any provision of this bill has the opportunity to try to change 
it any way they want. We want to get this done as quickly as possible. 
We want to make sure everyone has the opportunity to do what they 
believe is appropriate. Finally, what I wish to say is, we are very 
fortunate, as a Senate and a country, to have the two managers of this 
bill. I have stated many times my affection and admiration for Senator 
Inouye. He is a person whom the history books have already written 
about. Not only is he a heroic person in the fields of war but also in 
the fields of legislation. His colleague, Senator Cochran, is a person 
who has wide respect on both sides of the aisle. He is someone I have 
traveled parts of the world with. I have been working with him for a 
quarter of a century. He has been here longer than I have, but that 
doesn't take away from the fact that I recognize what a good Senator he 
is and how fortunate are the people in Mississippi to have him working 
on this legislation and all other matters. He is someone I can go to 
and there is no flimflam with Cochran. He tells you: I can't help you, 
here is what I want you to do. I think we will be well served during 
this debate.