---
---

# HONORING MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE
## `6e21857f38e9ae1ee7d7330bac76e527`
`Mr. CRAPO — 1 August 2008`

---

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I am pleased to recognize the 
outstanding accomplishments of the 366th Fighter Wing at Mountain Home 
Air Force Base in my home State of Idaho. The Gunfighters at Mountain 
Home earned the Air Force Meritorious Unit Award for the 17-month 
period from January 1, 2007, to May 31, 2008. The award is presented to 
active duty, Reserve and Guard units for exceptionally meritorious 
conduct in several areas, including outstanding services for at least 
three months during military operations against an armed enemy, 
outstanding devotion to duty and superior performance of exceptionally 
difficult tasks setting them apart from other units with similar 
missions. This award was established following September 11.

According to the 366th Fighter Wing Commander, COL James S. Browne, 
the Gunfighters earned this prestigious honor for exceptional conduct 
in direct support of combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which 
include the historical deployment of Mountain Home AFB's F-15E Strike 
Eagles to Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan, as well as its direct support 
of 600 close air support missions over the Iraq. I offer my 
congratulations to all members of the 366th, and commend them on a job 
that continues to be extremely well done. Idaho is very proud of her 
Air Force personnel, and remains honored to be the host of these men 
and women who make Idaho home during their military service. The 
Gunfighters' outstanding accomplishments in earning this reward reflect 
well on them, their units, their families and their adopted state. This 
award demonstrates, yet again, the outstanding commitment that our 
Mountain Home Air Force Base airmen have to their mission, their 
excellence in support and execution of the strategic goals of our 
military mission overseas and their unwavering defense of our 
Nation.
