# None
## `6e582e937c0e5c8e049b229a6e9129a6`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. The American people are expecting action in this body. 
Tomorrow, in the morning, it will certainly be an extremely important 
and perhaps decisive vote about whether we are going to complete our 
responsibility, or whether we are not. I have respect for those who 
have expressed reservations and observations. But my commitment and 
view is stronger than when we first started this legislation. The 
importance of this legislation, I think,--I find it more persuasive 
than the day it was initially introduced, developed, and shaped over 
the period of the last years.

We all have been faced with this legislation more closely over this 
debate and the debates we have had in recent days. We know, as we have 
heard frequently, and as I have said and many others have said, we have 
a national security issue and a problem. We can, as a nation, no longer 
afford to have, effectively, almost an open border in the Southwest. We 
also know, because in our committee we have listened to those who 
understand this issue, when they say we need to have secure borders, 
they also understand that with the strong kind of magnet attraction the 
American economy has, there is going to be leakage on that border. No 
matter how high we build walls or how many radars or air drones we have 
there or how many border guards we have, there is going to be leakage, 
unless we provide at least some opportunities for those who have some 
skills that in the United States we find we are unable to get filled in 
terms of the American workforce.

There has to be at least some opportunity for those individuals to 
come to the United States. Those of us who support this legislation 
believe in legality. We believe in national security, but we believe in 
legality. What we have today is lawlessness. We have lawlessness on the 
border, approaching the border, after the border, and in too many 
shops, plants, and factories around our country, including in my own 
State, in which we find the undocumented exploited, and they continue 
to be exploited. That is happening today.

We have to ask: Do we have something that is going to be basically 
serious about the border? Are we going to have a way for us to be able 
to say, OK, there are certain skills that we need here in terms of the 
American economy--those may be high skills, but in many circumstances 
it is going to be low skills, according to the Department of Labor. 
This legislation approaches that issue. We may say we would like to 
have it skewed this way or that, to some degree, but the fundamentals 
are essential in terms of the legality on our borders, in terms of 
national security, and also with regard to worksite enforcement.

As one who has, along with others, been involved in these debates 
about immigration reform, unless you are going to have a tamperproof 
card, you might as well forget it. We have learned that lesson in the 
1986 act and in the 1992 act and earlier periods of time. The idea that 
somehow tomorrow we are not going to be willing to continue this 
process and end this process without the assurances that we are going 
to end up with a tamperproof card is going to mean that the challenges 
we are facing on this issue at this time are going to be multiplied 
many times over, many times over. That is a fact.

Some people are troubled by the way that has been fashioned in this 
legislation. I think there is a strong and persuasive case we can make. 
We will have an additional opportunity with the Schumer amendment and, 
hopefully, with passage of cloture tomorrow. So we have those elements 
that are law enforcement at the border, respectful law, by coming into 
the United States and respecting our laws and our immigration laws, law 
enforcement at the worksite, and respect for the laws in that period of 
time. To say to those individuals who have come that--their motivations 
for coming here, by and large, are the values which Americans respect 
and admire, such as hard work. Sure, there may be some individuals who 
have gamed the system out there. But there can be no denial when any of 
us look at this situation and examine it and when you look at 
particularly the faces and meet the individuals, as


we all have, and we have had the issue spoken to so well by many of our 
colleagues, this is a population that is interested in hard work. That 
is a value Americans admire. They also admire the fact that these are 
families who work hard and care about the members of their family.

Mr. President, $40 billion a year is sent back to Central and South 
America by the primarily undocumented workers in the United States. 
This is where individuals are making $10,000 to $12,000 a year. So they 
care about their families. They are not coming in on their own to try 
to game the system. The statistics are there. I think those figures 
speak for themselves in terms of their willingness to work hard, care 
about their families and, as we all know, this community, this 
constituency--they are men and women of faith and belief, strong 
individuals of faith and belief.

On another occasion, we would say those are American values that we 
admire, and so many of them want to be part of the American dream and 
make America better. They reflect it by urging their sons and daughters 
to go into the service--thousands of them being in the service of our 
country in Afghanistan and Iraq. Many of them have lost their lives in 
the service of this country. So many of these families--as I listened 
to the mayor of Los Angeles today talk about a number of mothers he had 
met who lost their children in Iraq--the particular one he referred to 
had been undocumented and their son had been lost. In any event, that 
is the general sense of their desire and willingness, similar to other 
immigrants who came at other times.


So what is their great violation? The violation is that they have 
violated our immigration laws. That is serious. What is on the other 
side of those barriers? The magnet of the American economy. The magnet 
of the American economy has drawn these individuals like moths to a 
flame. Sure, it is all there because they have violated our laws, but 
they work hard and they care for their families. They are men and women 
of faith, with an extraordinary record of looking after their 
grandparents, and they have a great desire to be part of the American 
dream. They have violated laws and they should have a penalty. We 
looked around and looked around, those of us, Republicans and 
Democrats, at what should be the penalty. Should they get a penalty? 
The $5,000 processing fee can vary. We can put a requirement in about 
learning English. In Boston, MA, it is not that the undocumented don't 
want to learn English; it is a 3-year wait. Courses in English cost 
from $2,000 to $3,000 in my part of the world. I look forward to the 
Alexander amendment--the Senator from Tennessee. He wants to at least 
provide greater access to individuals to learn English. We are for 
that. There are requirements that they have to learn English. They have 
to demonstrate they have worked here and that they paid their taxes and 
they have to demonstrate that they are good Americans and that they are 
learning English. We have those requirements. Before they can even 
think about moving on the pathway to a green card, they have to wait in 
line for the 8 years to clear up.

Then, according to a merit system, over the next 5 years, they will 
be able to hopefully get on the path for a green card and then wait 
another 5 years to become a citizen--8 years, 5 years, and 5 more 
years. That is 18 years for some of those individuals, plus the 
penalties and fines--for people who want to be a part of the American 
dream.

This has, as others have spoken to, very important provisions in here 
about the ag jobs. I remember going through the Southwest in the early 
1960s when I arrived in the Senate. Americans were involved in the 
Bracero Program, which, outside of slavery, was the greatest 
exploitation of humanity. Perhaps we could talk about some of the 
incidents in terms of the Native Americans certainly. But this was a 
sanctioned program that continued for years and years with the 
exploitation and abuse of people.

That was the beginning of the rise of the farmworker movement and the 
extraordinary tensions that existed between the farmworkers and the 
agricultural interests. It took a long period of time. Finally, they 
got together to try to have a program which both of them agreed with, 
which is the AgJOBS bill, to make a difference to 800,000 or 900,000 
people who are some of the hardest working people in America. Then 
there's the DREAM Act. There is some responsibility in the areas of 
education. We know of the difficulty so many have in completing high 
school. It is true in the Latino community. This kind of opportunity--
if they are the sons of people who came here undocumented, these 
children didn't know about it, but if they work hard and complete 
school, they have the opportunity to serve this country and they can 
get on a pathway for citizenship, or if they are otherwise eligible and 
the State approves, they can also continue in education.

So there are, I know, strong views about these different provisions; 
but, quite frankly, I think it is a compelling story that demands and 
requires action. If we fail this opportunity, we know we are going to 
miss this opportunity for some time. It is getting late into the season 
now, July and August we will be out and in September is the 
appropriations time. We will move into a highly politicized period of 
time, and we will move into a Presidential campaign. So we will miss an 
incredible opportunity.

I hope the Senate is going to be responsible tomorrow. We know if we 
fail, those individuals are all going to be out there; the numbers are 
going to increase, exploitation will increase, and we are going to have 
the silent amnesty that others have referred to. That is the real 
alternative. I don't say that because I believe the failure to act is 
bad, and it is going to get worse, although I believe it will. It is 
that if we can take this action and make this downpayment, we can 
continue to work on this issue as the House does. That will take time. 
We can obviously work with those who are interested in it and try to 
make adjustments and changes and try to strengthen and improve it. That 
is the way the legislative process works. Hopefully, we will be able to 
come to the period where we can all feel the final product is the best 
judgment we have had on this bill. That is the optimum, and it seems to 
me this is an exceedingly important opportunity we should not miss.

Finally, I again thank our leaders for giving us a chance to come 
back to this issue. We know it has been a complicated and difficult 
one. As I have said repeatedly, immigration and civil rights are the 
hot-button issues. We have had complex issues in our HELP Committee 
dealing with biologics, an enormously complex and difficult issue. We 
came together and passed that legislation. We had issues dealing with 
information technology, privacy, grants, and we came together and took 
action. Our committee has been dealing with the general cost of 
education and loan programs, and we were able to, Republicans and 
Democrats, cut some $18 billion from the lenders and return $17 billion 
to the students. We came together, Republicans and Democrats, and have 
been able to get reauthorization of the Food and Drug Administration. 
We look forward to continuing with mental health parity and other 
issues. But it is the issues of immigration and civil rights that are 
the hot-button issues, and they get the juices flowing.

I hope tonight people will stand back and think through the 
significance of this vote tomorrow. It is going to be a matter of 
enormous importance to our country. It is going to have enormous 
importance in terms of quality of life for millions of people. We are 
going to make the decision whether they are going to continue to live 
in fear or whether they are going to be able to come out of that 
darkness into the sunshine and be part of this country. If we don't 
act, we all know what is going to be happening in local communities all 
across the country and the increasing backwash that is going to arise 
that is going to make other matters much more difficult for us to 
continue to make progress on.

I look forward to tomorrow, and I hope all our Members will exercise 
their best judgment. We will have an opportunity to move ahead and 
complete this legislation and then hopefully we will continue the 
progress we made in the Senate so we can work with those who have 
differing views in the House and in the Senate and ultimately get 
legislation that is worthy of the Senate.