# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `6e6522772ac9bb5cac4dee4c89c209e1`
`Mr. CONRAD — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, we are on the budget resolution. We will 
complete work today or tomorrow at some point. It is important we 
complete the business.

Let me indicate this is the circumstance we inherit: The last 
balanced budget was in 2001. Since then, this administration has run up 
record deficits and record debt.

Mr. President, 2004 was the largest dollar deficit in history. In 
fact, we have now had the five largest deficits in our history under 
this administration. That dug a very deep hole as we began to write 
this budget resolution.

This is what has happened to the debt: At the end of the first year 
of the administration--we do not hold them responsible for the first 
year because they inherited a budget from the previous administration--
the debt of the United States stood at $5.8 trillion. It will be, at 
the end of 2009, over $10.4 trillion. This administration will nearly 
have doubled the debt of our country.

In terms of who is financing that debt, increasingly we are dependent 
on the kindness of strangers because increasingly this money is being 
borrowed from abroad.

I show this chart: There are 42 Presidents pictured here. It took 224 
years to run up $1 trillion of U.S. debt held abroad. This President 
has more than doubled that amount in 7 years. In fact, he has far more 
than doubled foreign holdings of U.S. debt in 7 years.

That brings us to this budget, which recognizes the economic weakness 
our country is confronting. So our first priority is to strengthen the 
economy and create jobs. We do that by investing in energy, to reduce 
our dependence on foreign oil. We invest in education, knowing we 
cannot be a first-class nation unless our people are the best educated, 
best trained in the world. We invest in our infrastructure, to help 
make us more competitive. We also expand health care coverage for our 
children because that is a wise investment that pays off over a 
lifetime. And we provide tax cuts for the middle class.

At the same time, we restore fiscal responsibility by balancing the 
budget in 4 years, and maintaining balance in the fifth year. We also 
seek to make America safer by supporting the troops by providing for 
veterans' health care, and by protecting the homeland by rejecting the 
President's proposed cuts in law enforcement, the COPS Program, and our 
first responders.

We all know the economic weakness the country is currently 
experiencing. Economic growth, in 2006, averaged 2.6 percent; in 2007, 
2.5 percent. The Congressional Budget Office is now estimating for 2008 
the economic growth will only be 1.6 percent. Many of us believe the 
economy is not growing at all at the present time. In fact, we may well 
be in a recession.

So in order to strengthen the economy, we have provided for stimulus 
in this budget resolution: some $35 billion in an insurance policy, 
standby authority in case this economy weakens further; providing 
relief in the hard-hit housing sector, where we know they are not in a 
recession, they are in a depression; also having the option of 
extending unemployment insurance; providing for additional resources 
for food stamps; and also having the opportunity for additional funding 
for low-income heating assistance, the WIC program, and infrastructure 
funding for 2008--projects that are ready to go: road building, highway 
construction, bridge construction, school construction--projects that 
are designed, that are engineered, all of the land has been acquired; 
they just need the money to begin construction and to hire people and 
to create jobs.

There is also substantial tax relief in this budget resolution: 
alternative minimum tax relief, so an additional 20 million families 
are not caught up in the alternative minimum tax; additional energy tax 
incentives, again to reduce our dependence on foreign oil; additional 
education tax cuts, in order to make college more affordable; the 
stimulus provisions we have discussed, especially targeted at the 
housing sector; and, of course, the all-important extenders--those tax 
provisions that are expiring that need to be extended.

The first amendment to the budget resolution will also extend the 
middle-class tax relief. It will extend the marriage penalty relief, 
the child tax credit, the 10-percent bracket. It will also provide for 
estate tax reform, providing for an exemption of $3.5 million a 
person--and all of that to keep pace with inflation as well. It also 
contains an important new property tax relief measure that the chairman 
of the Finance Committee will describe, tax relief for our troops and 
veterans, and tax relief for the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita.

All of that is against the backdrop of a budget that is balanced. 
Once the Baucus amendment is adopted that extends the middle-class tax 
relief, we show that we are able to balance the budget in the fourth 
year, and maintain balance in the fifth year, showing a positive 
balance in the fourth year of $4 billion, and a similar amount in 2013.

We are also, under this resolution, once the Baucus amendment is 
adopted, taking the debt as a share of our national income down each 
and every year, from 69.6 percent, down to 66 percent in 2013. So we 
have the debt going in the right direction, going down as a share of 
our national economy.

We also have spending going down under this budget resolution as a 
share of our national income, from 20.8 percent of gross domestic 
product in 2009, stepped down each year, until in the


fourth and fifth years we have reduced Federal spending as a share of 
our national economy to 19.1 percent.

Now, we will hear on the other side assertions that this budget 
spends hundreds of billions of dollars more. I don't know what budget 
they are talking about because it is not this budget. This shows the 
difference between our budget and the President's budget in terms of 
spending. The red line is the President's spending line. The green line 
is the spending under this resolution. My colleagues can see, in 
relative terms, they are very close. There is only a 2-percent 
difference in spending over the 5 years, the difference between what is 
in the President's budget and what is in this budget. We use those 
additional resources for energy, for education, for infrastructure, for 
our veterans, and to maintain law enforcement programs such as the COPS 
Program.


One percent: What does this signify? One percent is the difference in 
the spending level for this next year between our budget and the 
President's budget. There is 1 percent more spending in our budget in 
total for 2009 than is in the President's budget. Again, those 
additional resources are devoted to primarily education, reducing our 
energy dependence, infrastructure, and veterans health care. Those are 
the primary areas of difference.

Here are the lines which show the difference between the revenue in 
our proposal and the revenue in the President's proposal. We will hear 
there is a $1 trillion tax increase somehow buried in this budget. 
There is no such thing. They made the same claims last year. There was 
no $1 trillion tax increase last year; there is no $1 trillion tax 
increase this year. I said yesterday that if I brought up the menu from 
the dining room downstairs and introduced it as a budget resolution, 
our colleagues would say there is a $1 trillion tax increase because 
that is what they always say.

The fact is the difference in revenue between the two is 2.6 percent. 
Here is the difference between the revenue in the President's budget 
and the revenue in our budget: 2.6 percent. That means we are able to 
pay the debt down more. That means we are able to balance the budget. 
That means we are able to put some additional resources in these high 
priority needs such as veterans health care, education, energy, and 
infrastructure to help create jobs and stimulate this economy and also 
position America to be fully competitive in the years ahead.

So how could we get 2.6 percent more revenue than the President and 
not have a tax increase? Well, I suggest we can do it by going after 
things such as the tax gap, the difference between what is owed and 
what is paid. The vast majority of us pay what we owe; some don't. That 
amount of money has become very large. The IRS says in 2001, that gap 
between what is owed and what is paid was $345 billion.

However, that is not the only place there is money that is not being 
secured. We have offshore tax havens. The Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations has told us we are losing $100 billion a year to these 
offshore tax havens. Here is an example: A building in the Cayman 
Islands, a 5-story building that claims to be home to 12,748 companies. 
They all say they are doing business out of this little building. Does 
anybody believe that? The only business they are doing down there is 
monkey business. What they are doing is avoiding and evading their 
taxes in this United States. We ought to shut it down. If we do shut it 
down, there is a tremendous amount of money there, according to our 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.

This article appeared on March 6 in the Boston Globe: ''Top Iraq 
contractor skirts U.S. taxes offshore.'' It is a perfect example of 
what I have been talking about. This story indicates that:




 Kellogg Brown & Root, the nation's top Iraq war contractor 


 and until last year a subsidiary of Halliburton Corp., has 


 avoided paying hundreds of millions of dollars in federal 


 Medicare and Social Security taxes by hiring workers through 


 shell companies based in this tropical tax haven.


I wish that was the exception. Unfortunately, our Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations says it is no exception. It is 
increasingly the case.

Let me close by saying on the other side, our colleagues will say a 
$1 trillion tax increase. They made the same claim last year. Now we 
can go back and check the record and see what actually happened. With 
Democrats in control of the House and the Senate, did they increase 
taxes by $1 trillion? What actually happened? Well, if you go check the 
record--this isn't a forecast, this isn't a projection, this isn't a 
claim; this is a fact--this Congress reduced taxes by $194 billion. 
They increased revenue through loophole closers by $7 billion, so a net 
reduction in taxes of $187 billion. That is what the Congress did. 
Congress, controlled by the Democrats in the House and the Senate, 
didn't increase taxes, as was claimed by the other side last year. They 
make the same claim this year. The fact is we cut taxes, and we cut 
taxes quite dramatically.

The stimulus package that will lead to checks being sent out to 100 
million Americans, that was a tax cut. In addition, fixing the 
alternative minimum tax so more than 20 million American families 
weren't hit with increased taxes are in those numbers.

This is a budget resolution worthy of our colleagues' support, and I 
encourage each of our colleagues to carefully evaluate it and to 
support it.

Might I, before my colleague begins, thank him for his many 
courtesies during consideration of the budget resolution. As always, we 
have differences. My colleagues will hear them now, I am sure. On 
substantive issues, we have places where we disagree, but he has been 
an absolute professional in the conduct of the work of this committee 
and the handling of this resolution on the floor. I thank him for it.