---
---

# None
## `6e6a009d756acf5e6c467530a5514932`
`Mr. DeMINT — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DeMINT. Mr. President, it is clear that the cloture motion as has 
been filed by the majority is clearly not what they want to happen this 
evening. So it does seem to be that this is all about a political 
circus to keep us here all night for some political theater to try to 
embarrass the President and in the process demoralize our troops and 
embolden our enemies.

Instead of talking about substantive amendments to the Defense 
authorization bill, what I hear the majority speaking of is message 
amendments, to try to message their political theater.

The fact is, this is about winning elections. The majority has given 
many quotes to the media. One senior Democratic aide on Fox News, when 
asked about staying up all night, said: Is this a publicity stunt? Yes.

Senator Reid was quoted as saying at a press conference: I don't know 
if we will get 60 votes, but I tell you one thing, there are 21 
Republicans up for reelection this time.

Senator Reid was quoted in the Washington Post as: We are going to 
pick up Senate seats as a result of this war. Senator Schumer has shown 
me numbers that are compelling and astounding.

So while the majority is putting us through political theater in 
hopes of picking up Senate seats in 2008, our National Intelligence 
Estimate, which just came out, is very clear in their key judgment. It 
says: We judge that the U.S. homeland will face a persistent and 
evolving terrorist threat over the next 3 years.

The main threat comes from Islamic terrorist groups themselves, 
especially al-Qaida driven by their undiminished intent to attack the 
homeland and a continued effort by these terrorists groups to adopt and 
improve their capabilities.

The report is clear that we have a broad threat, a global threat. It 
is not just about Iraq. The whole Defense authorization is very 
important. We should not be sidelining the discussion of important 
issues of national defense and security with political theater this 
evening.

But it is important, as some of my colleagues have done, to kind of 
review what we have been through the last few months. Certainly, all of 
us are concerned about the progress in Iraq, the safety of our troops. 
We all want to finish our job with honor, with victory, to bring our 
troops home.

We have had a lot of debate this year. But recently when the 
President submitted his war spending bill, emergency supplemental bill, 
to fund our troops, we had a lot of debate. My Democratic colleagues 
had a lot of different ideas. The President vetoed one version. After 
that, we came to an agreement. The Democrats would force the President 
to agree that after we sent General Petraeus there--and that was a 
unanimous thing, to send General Petraeus to Baghdad to secure the 
area, we sent thousands of new troops. The Democrats agreed on that 
funding, but they requested that we have a report from General Petraeus 
in the middle of September to find out what progress we were making. We 
all agreed to that. But after we all agreed and had the signing at the 
White House, that is now not good enough for my Democratic colleagues.

As we heard one political strategist say about the Democrats, any day 
they are not talking about Iraq is a bad day. They want to make 
political hay out of this difficult situation that our country faces.

We have a new plan almost every day of how we are going to withdraw 
and retreat, a strategy du jour in the Senate. We will be talking about 
a lot of those new strategies as we go through the evening.

But as has already been mentioned by some of my Republican colleagues 
who talk a lot with the troops who come home, almost without exception 
they believe in our mission, and they believe they can win. What we are 
asking tonight of the majority is to let them win. Let Petraeus do what 
we sent him to do. Give him the time that we gave him--until 
September--to demonstrate that we can secure Baghdad, at least 
reasonably, in a way that the Government can function and the economy 
can rebound and the country can begin to establish itself as a free and 
independent democracy.

What we are seeing again is what we have seen over the past years. My 
Democratic colleagues, while well intended, are very often weak on 
defense and national security on almost every measure fighting for 
security. We would not even give our homeland security the same tools 
to fight terrorists as we give our law enforcement to fight drug 
dealers. Certainly, terrorists are as much a threat to us.

Some of my Democratic colleagues have even said this is a bumper 
sticker campaign, not a real war. I think we have to begin this whole 
process by recognizing, as our national intelligence estimate tells us 
time and again, this is a real threat, a continuing threat, one that we 
need to be prepared for in many ways, and we need to develop more of a 
consensus in the Senate of how we are going to fight it.

Our troops do believe in what they are doing. They believe it is a 
right cause, and they believe they can win. We need to let them win. We 
shouldn't continue to talk through the night and talk day after day 
about ''we have lost'' or ''we can't win'' or ''we shouldn't be there'' 
or ''we are not making progress,'' when those who are there doing the 
fighting are telling us quite a different story.

Mr. President, I wish to address at least one amendment to the 
Defense authorization bill that I think is an example of what we need 
to be doing to make our military more efficient. There are a lot of 
things we do as a Congress that force our military to do things maybe 
for political reasons that don't help us militarily. One is related to 
aircraft retirement.

I have an amendment that I hope we can get to, amendment No. 2302, 
that is related to aircraft retirement. Some call it flyable storage. I 
was amazed to find out that Congress has required the Air Force to 
maintain in flying condition permanently grounded aircraft at the cost 
of millions of dollars a year. Many of these older aircraft, because of 
structural integrity, safety concerns, will never fly again. Yet we 
require them to be maintained in operational status for that last 
flight to the junkyard.

Between 2000 and 2007, retirement restrictions cost the Air Force 
$893 million, and almost $143 million has gone to modify aircraft the 
Air Force would like to retire. This year, the Air Force will spend 
$8.1 million to maintain the aircraft in flyable storage, $8.1 million 
to maintain aircraft that will never be used again. This will happen 
year after year.

There has been some political pressure to keep this because some 
maintenance happens in different States where various Senators and 
Congressmen want that to continue.

My amendment will just give the Air Force the flexibility to retire 
aircraft that needs to be retired. Most Americans would think that is 
just basic common sense, and I hope we can agree on that in the Senate.

I hope we can get back to the debate on this Defense authorization 
bill. I am very sorry that the majority will not let us move to the 
cloture vote on the Levin amendment, which is pending. But if we need 
to talk through the night, we will continue to talk through the night.

I yield the floor.