---
---

# None
## `6e6c213ed9f9d7b9659046912217af65`
`Mr. OBEY — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, this bill contains a provision that freezes 
public-private competitions at the Department of Labor under OMB 
circular A-76. That process is used to compete out jobs now performed 
by Federal employees. Significant resources have been spent by the 
Department over the last several years on contracting out government 
jobs, and the committee believes it is time to take a step back and 
examine how the process is working.

Government-wide statistics cast doubt, frankly, on the overall 
effectiveness of this process. OMB reports in fiscal year 2006 that 
government employees won the competition in more than 85 percent of the 
cases where competitive sourcing was used. At DOL, the results have 
been similar. Since the process has begun, DOL employees have won 22 of 
the 25 competitions.

Now, aside from questions about the lack of compelling evidence of 
cost savings or increased efficiency, there is concern about the fact 
that the Department is not taking proper care to assure that functions 
that ought to be considered inherently governmental or are otherwise 
unsuitable for contracting performance are excluded from these 
competitions.

We have seen some competitions where regulatory and policy functions 
are included and believe that an independent look at the Department of 
Labor's use of this authority is warranted.

The gentleman says that it is labor bosses who are concerned about 
this. The last time I looked, this was having a disproportionate impact 
on women and on minority workers, and we are asking the GAO to assess 
the impact on them.



The bill language freezes the A-76 process at the Department of Labor 
until the committee has the benefit of a GAO review of that process. 
What is wrong with that?

The Comptroller General chaired a panel that submitted a report to 
Congress in 2002 and the request to GAO will be to ask for an 
assessment of the extent to which the sourcing principle adopted by the 
panel, including the recognition of inherently governmental functions, 
are being followed by the Department. This department is frankly not 
known to be a friend of the worker, certainly not under the present 
regime. It certainly is not known to be a friend to Federal workers, 
and it seems to me that we have seen in Iraq what happens when we 
contract out everything in sight. We have seen what happens in the 
Labor Department when 90 percent of one of their most important 
manpower programs, when 90 percent of the money in that program is 
farmed out on a noncompetitive basis. Frankly, we have sincere doubt 
about the balance with which the Department is approaching this issue.

Therefore, we asked the GAO to review the process. What on earth is 
wrong with that? I urge opposition to the gentleman's amendment.