---
---

# HONORING WOMEN IN THE ARMED FORCES AND FEMALE VETERANS
## `6e95c78582871105085570dab28d38d0`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 20 May 2008`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Every time I visit military installations, at home and abroad, I'm 
constantly impressed by the tremendous job our servicemembers are 
doing, and I'm particularly impressed by our


brave servicewomen, whom I seek out at every chance.

Over 350,000 American women are currently serving in our Armed 
Forces, following in the footsteps of women who have voluntarily served 
in every military conflict in United States history since the 
Revolutionary War.

During the revolution, women served on the front lines as nurses, 
water bearers and even saboteurs. For years, women had to disguise 
themselves as men in order to enlist in our military. Although the Army 
and Navy Nurse Corps were established in the early 1900s, it was not 
until the Women's Armed Services Integration Act of 1948 that women 
were granted permanent status in the regular and Reserve Armed Forces.

As Memorial Day approaches, we should recognize that our servicewomen 
play an increasingly important role in America's military forces. Women 
serving in the Armed Forces make up approximately 15 percent of active 
duty personnel, 15 percent of Reserves and 17 percent of the National 
Guard.

Women are flying helicopters and fighter aircraft. They are saving 
lives as nurses and doctors, and they are driving support vehicles and 
policing perimeters.

Servicewomen are also receiving recognition of their service, 
including awards for valor. Most recently, Private First Class Monica 
Lin Brown became only the second woman since World War II to receive 
the Silver Star, our Nation's third highest medal for valor, for her 
service in Afghanistan. The first woman since World War II to receive 
this honor was Sergeant Leigh Ann Hester, who received the Silver Star 
in 2005 for her service in Iraq.

When I visit installations, I am so grateful for the response and 
insight I receive from women in the Armed Forces. They are adamant they 
do not want to be treated differently; yet they would like us to 
understand and recognize the additional burdens that are inherent in 
the many roles they play as wives, as mothers and caretakers.

Later this week, the Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues will 
host its annual ceremony at the Arlington National Cemetery to honor 
our Nation's servicewomen and women veterans and to remember women who 
have died while on duty serving the United States.

As Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military 
Personnel and co-Chair of the Women's Caucus Task Force on Women in the 
Military and Veterans, I'm privileged to honor the legacy of 
servicewomen in the past, the courage with which women serve today, and 
the enthusiasm inherent in the young women who dream of serving this 
great Nation in the future.

Part of honoring them is asking the tough questions about the 
expanding roles our servicewomen are taking on and excelling in. We 
hear from women in the military in person and through the media about 
their contributions in combat zones and their willingness to risk their 
lives in defense of their fellow servicemembers, our country and our 
families. These are issues we should recognize and address. They 
deserve nothing less.

We should never fail to remember the sacrifices our servicewomen and 
their families make to keep our families safe.

This resolution honors the service and achievements of women in the 
military and women veterans and encourages all people in the United 
States to do the same and to learn more about these wonderful 
accomplishments.

Mr. Speaker, thank you for the opportunity to have offered this 
resolution. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.