# JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE AND TERRORISM ACT
## `6e97c6e79845d590430c67b3d86f7cc1`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Mr. Scott and the 
chairman of the committee, as well as Ranking Member Smith and my 
friend from California, for their support for this important bill.

I rise today because preventing torture of U.S. prisoners of war and 
citizens should be our highest priority as a Nation. This bill, H.R. 
5167, is a bipartisan compromise that will finally, after 17 long 
years, provide justice for American POWs and civilian hostages who were 
tortured and terrorized by Saddam Hussein's regime.

And to put a human face on this, Mr. Speaker, these are some of the 
faces of tortured POWs that this bill is designed to address.

My friend Cliff Acree, a colonel in the United States Marine Corps, 
aviation, and Commander Jeffrey Zaun from the United States Navy were 
visible faces of the Gulf War invasion and what was happening to our 
troops in Iraq.

This photograph shows what happens when we put our young men and 
women in harm's way and subject them to brutal regimes like what we 
found when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, and the country of Iraq was 
labeled as a State sponsor of terrorism which is a necessary predicate 
to this claim in first place.

Immediately after these captured POWs started showing up on 
television, this Congress, including the House of Representatives which 
was under Republican control at that time, passed multiple resolutions 
condemning the brutal treatment of our prisoners of war, demanding that 
Iraq abide by the Third Geneva Convention concerning POWs and stated 
Congress' intention to hold Iraq accountable for tortured POWs.

Why is that important? Because the United States, along with Iraq, 
are part of the signatory nations to the Third Geneva Convention, and 
one of the most important articles for the purpose of this bill was 
article 131, which says no country--and this would include Iraq--shall 
be allowed to absolve itself or any other country of any liability 
related to the prohibited treatment of prisoners of war.

It wasn't just our POWs, though. There were civilian hostages taken 
by the Saddam Hussein regime, including famous CBS news reporter Bob 
Simon and his cameraman Roberto Alvarez who were kidnapped while on 
assignment in the Gulf War and were being held and tortured along with 
the POWs.

There were also numerous civilians who were captured by Saddam 
Hussein in Kuwait, including children, and were kept and held as human 
shields and subject to abusive treatment and torture along with our 
U.S. military forces. That is one of the reasons why this bill came 
about in the first place.

When these tortured POWs came home--and just so that we can put this 
into context, these POWs were subjected to cruel physical and mental 
torture. They were beaten, they were starved, they were hooked to 
electronic devices and shocked, and subjected to other horrendous acts.

Cliff Acree, the person whose picture is on this chart, had his nose 
broken on multiple occasions and his skull fractured in addition to 
being subjected to multiple other forms of abuse.

When these POWs came home, their Secretary of Defense, who was at 
that time Dick Cheney, said your country is opening its arms to greet 
you.

And this body, Congress, acted promptly to address these crimes that 
were committed in violation of international law by passing amendments 
to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act and, in 1996, provided that 
Americans tortured and terrorized in Iraq could seek compensation for 
their injuries from those terrorist countries, including Iraq.



Now, these Gulf War POWs have been through hell, and they waited a 
long


time for their opportunity to get justice. So in 2003, after the 
Government of Iraq repeatedly refused to negotiate these claims with 
them and refused to accept service, a judge awarded these 17 POWs a 
judgment for damages and stated in his ruling that deterring the 
torture of POWs should be of the highest priority of this government.

But shortly after that award was entered, this administration, which 
at that time was engaged in Operation Iraqi Freedom, decided that, even 
though one group of human shield plaintiffs had been compensated by the 
Government of Iraq, that they were going to seize the assets that were 
held in U.S. banks that could have been used to satisfy the payment to 
these tortured American POWs and instead applied them to the 
reconstruction of Iraq. And Scott McClellan, who was a White House 
spokesman, on November 6 said, ''The United States condemns, in the 
strongest terms, the brutal torture to which these Americans were 
subjected. However, no amount of money can truly compensate these brave 
men and women for the suffering they went through at the hands of 
Saddam Hussein's brutal regime, so that's why we're going to extinguish 
their claims.''

There is a problem, and this problem was mentioned by my friend Mr. 
Scott, and also by Mr. Issa; that is, that this argument is hollow when 
you look at what our government has done to help Iraq resolve $20 
billion of commercial debt that are outstanding to companies like 
Mitsubishi of Japan and Hyundai of Korea. And if you look at the fact 
that in this fiscal year the Government of Iraq will probably generate 
somewhere in the neighborhood of $100 billion in oil revenues, this 
small liability to these tortured American citizens clearly should be a 
higher priority than settling the commercial debts of Japanese and 
Korean corporations.

That's why the Justice for Victims of Torture and Terrorism Act 
requires the Government of Iraq to resolve the claims of American 
victims who are willing to give up all of their punitive damage award 
that they've already been awarded by the court and two-thirds of their 
compensatory damages to try to get this matter resolved and allow Iraq 
to move forward as a nation that belongs to the international 
community. And the waiver is only eliminated if Iraq does not pay the 
victims within the time period allotted. And this time period has been 
part of the Defense Authorization bill since the President's veto last 
December and since we came back with a new Defense Authorization bill 
that passed in early January.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, why does this matter? It matters because 
preventing the torture of current U.S. citizens and troops should be 
one of our highest priorities in this body.