---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `6e9cd2c64367ea01d259e41ca98b1217`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I always think there is this pyramid of 
political influence out there. For a very long time, the only people 
that really mattered in this system were the people gathered at the tip 
of the pyramid, the people with the big political action committees and 
who could afford to hire 10 lobbyists to patrol the halls of Congress. 
And all of us, you know, that exist down at the bottom of that pyramid, 
and when we come here we get to be closer to the top than the bottom, 
but the regular folks who sit wondering, and even if they don't wonder 
if they can afford to fill their tank, they wonder whether increasing 
gas prices means they can save less, whether this will have some impact 
on their retirement savings. All of those folks that exist at the base 
of that pyramid didn't matter any longer.

As much as for me and Mr. Altmire, as much as we care about setting a 
different course in Iraq and taking on the hegemony of the oil 
companies and setting a new course for health care policy, I think for 
us this election was as much about sort of flipping that pyramid on its 
head and saying we have got to start taking the time to form consensus 
back at the base of that pyramid and having those decisions be the ones 
that matter here in Washington.

I have to tell you, standing here as a member of the 30-Something 
Working Group, nobody knows more than we do about how many Americans 
now stand on a precipice of jumping off a cliff to having faith in 
their government. Young people, whether in their 20s or 30s, but people 
now in their 40s, 50s and 60s have just lost any faith that what they 
care about will actually be reflected in what happens in Washington.



Guess what, in January, when a new Congress got sworn in, it all 
changed. Now, it may not change so much that things happen here with 
the alacrity that people may like. This government is still designed 
not exactly to respond overnight, but you would not be seeing the 
policy proposals that you are outlining, whether it is taking on the 
royalties and the tax breaks, whether it is taking a look at antitrust 
provisions, whether it is passing a strong price-gouging bill. You just 
would not see that.

You would hear a lot of bluster, but you would not be seeing action 
if we did not flip government on its head in January and start once 
again listening to people out in communities rather than just listening 
to the conversations that happen perpetually within the halls of 
government. All those conversations are focused on one thing, the 
status quo.