---
---

# TURNING POINT IN WAR ON TERRORISM
## `6eb19adeb1541810b7bb019744afced5`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. I thank the gentleman for yielding. Because of its 
prestige in the history of our Nation, the Presidency and its occupants 
are often envied. This view is erroneous, because within the Presidency 
comes the requirement to make painful, agonizing decisions between war 
and peace, between life and death. Many of its past occupants have said 
that it is the loneliest of places in the United States to be in that 
Oval Office when the weight of these demands fall upon your shoulders.

Understanding this and empathizing with our President and fully 
understanding our role as the servants of the sovereign citizens who 
sent us here, we have to offer the President honest advice for his 
consideration in just such circumstances. I do so today.

We have seen the report from the commanding General on the ground, 
General McChrystal, who was appointed by the President to implement the 
President's counterinsurgency strategy. I applauded that move. I 
applauded the President's willingness to go to a counterinsurgency 
strategy.

We have of late seen tendered to the President the recommendations of 
General McChrystal as to how we can, yes, still achieve victory in 
Afghanistan. The report said that we can have a status quo and not 
achieve victory. We can have 40,000 troops and a full counterinsurgency 
effort--or we could have more than 40,000 and a full 
counterinsurgency--to win.

The President is now faced with a momentous decision. The decision is 
whether we shall have victory or we shall have defeat, a defeat which, 
however disguised, as a withdrawal or otherwise, will be viewed by our 
enemies, our allies, and the Afghan people as a defeat.

It is my sincere hope that the President supports and implements the 
General's request for at least 40,000 additional troops and a full 
counterinsurgency strategy so that the United States, their allies, and 
the Afghan people can be free.

You see, within the context of this decision, the President must 
consider, obviously, the lives of our troops in the field, our allies 
in the Afghans. The President must weigh the consequences to our Nation 
and the world of a revanchist Taliban return to power, an emboldened al 
Qaeda, and the dangers that it imposes not only for the people of 
Afghanistan and the United States, but to Afghanistan's neighbors, such 
as Pakistan, and to our allies, who will continue to be the targets of 
terrorism, as will ourselves.

In weighing this, he will also have to think about the honor of the 
United States, a Nation which throughout its history has posed a threat 
to tyrants and terrorists throughout the globe--not because of our 
actions, but because of our existence.

It is our existence as a free people and a people large enough of 
heart to expand that liberty to others to defend it here for ourselves, 
that we have, throughout our history, faced challenges, both martial 
and ideological.

Within the context of Afghanistan, a decision for a withdrawal that 
will constitute a defeat means that the United States of America will 
say to the people of Afghanistan: You will again be returned to the 
murderous regime of the Taliban. Women will be again treated as second 
class citizens. Children will again grow up in a culture of violence 
and hatred directed at other people, and the United States will have 
broken its word to them.

Today, there are decisions even greater than the one the President 
faces being made. It is by our men and women in uniform, our allies in 
the Afghans, who every day wake up fully conscious and devoted to the 
cause of human freedom in Afghanistan, despite whatever the Taliban and 
al Qaeda and others may do to them.

It is this type of decision, this type of bravery, this type of 
commitment to the God-given right to liberty that is possessed by every 
soul on this Earth that motivates ourselves and our allies in the 
Afghans. And I would urge the President that, in coming to your 
decision, you never forget that; that the strength of the United States 
is our willingness to sacrifice for the expansion of liberty to others 
to defend freedom for ourselves; that our security is from strength, 
not surrender; and that throughout our history and throughout the 
future of this free Republic we will never betray our word to oppressed 
peoples we have helped to come to emancipate, for in doing so we will 
betray our own birthright as free citizens and endanger our own 
security.

Let us pray for our President as he makes this fateful decision and 
let us hope he comes to the right one--a victory in Afghanistan, a 
victory for the Afghan people, a victory for the cause of human freedom 
in our all-too-tortured world.

I yield back to the gentleman from California.