---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `6eb7a56bb9bab703765d7d50c6539af8`
`Mr. ALLARD — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. ALLARD. In October 2002, this body saw fit to authorize, by a 
large majority, the use of force against Iraq. Specifically the 
resolution authorizes the President: to use the Armed Forces of the 
United States as he determines to be necessary and appropriate in order 
to defend the national security of the United States against the 
continuing threat posed by Iraq.

I remind my colleagues that we did so because of two important 
reasons--the same two reasons offered by the President to the American 
public.

First, Saddam Hussein was in breach of more than a dozen United 
Nations Security Council resolutions. He refused to cooperate with U.N. 
weapons inspectors even after a decade of sanctions, and rejected 
proposal after proposal to verify that he did not have such weapons.

Second, after September 11, it was clear that America could not 
afford to allow imminent threats to our Nation go unopposed. At the 
time, Iraq represented a dangerous crossroad between terrorism and 
weapons of mass destruction. In the context of Saddam's hostile 
intentions, it was a nexus that we could not ignore.

When critics attempt to cover up their support for the use of force 
against Iraq, they damage U.S. credibility overseas and send mixed 
messages to our servicemembers. Even more dangerously, they encourage 
an enemy who believes America will give up when the fighting gets 
tough.

Of course, there is no doubt that the strategic imperatives in Iraq 
have changed since 2002. I will readily admit that this fight is one 
that we fully recognize. But that in no way diminishes the importance 
of our mission there now. We have a vital national interest to remain 
in Iraq and help maintain a secure and stable nation.

The terrorists have made it abundantly clear that Iraq is central in 
their war against the civilized world. They are committed to fighting 
there and will not stop unless we defeat them. If we have to fight, it 
is preferable to fight on their own soil.

They have also made it clear that they will not stop with Iraq. They 
will strike Iraq's neighbors as they did in Jordan and Lebanon. They 
will strike Europe as they did in the Madrid bombings. And, they will 
not hesitate to strike America again as they did on September 11.

And yet now, in this body, we are debating another resolution, but 
one that does not hold any legal weight; a resolution that would tie 
the hands of our soldiers in the field by limiting their options, lower 
their morale, and harm their efforts in Iraq. I am convinced that a 
long-term stable Iraq is in the best interest of our national security, 
and as I have said many times before, the price of failure in Iraq is 
too great to walk away now.


We should not forfeit our progress in Iraq to meet arbitrary 
deadlines whether they are in the short or in the long term. We should 
not think about giving up when our men and women in uniform who have 
achieved so much. Such defeatism encourages the terrorists, undermines 
our efforts to persuade other nations to join us, and opens the door to 
attacks here at home. We must stand firm. We must stand strong.

Thus, I support the President's plan to move forward in trying to 
secure Baghdad.

One of the keys to success in Iraq, I believe, is obtaining a sincere 
commitment from the Iraqi Prime Minister to get the Iraqi government to 
play a much stronger role in the destiny of Iraq.

President Bush is confident that we now have that commitment and I 
think that this will have a major impact on our new efforts to bring 
stability to Baghdad.

I am supportive of this new strategy because it contains a much 
stronger commitment from Iraqis, in terms of their share of force 
strength and their financial share of the costs of the war, and 
includes new thresholds for the Iraqis to meet. To date, the Iraqis 
have become too reliant on U.S. troops and U.S. dollars. This plan 
shows a new commitment from the Iraqis to step up to the plate and 
fight for their country's future.

I am optimistic that the President's shift in direction was needed, 
and may have already resulted in two positive results:

No. 1, Iraq's prime minister dropped his protection of an anti-
American cleric's Shiite militia after U.S. intelligence convinced him 
the group was infiltrated by death squads; and

No. 2, recently, U.S. forces arrested the top aide to radical cleric 
al-Sadr in a raid. I think this signals that the important change in 
our strategy shows hope for success and that Iraq is ready to come 
forward with a renewed commitment to solving its problems.

Mr. President, I enter in the Record the following newspaper articles 
describing these accounts.








 [From the Washington Post, Jan. 20, 2007]


 Key Aide to Sadr Arrested in Baghdad--Iraqi-Led Operation Part of 















Broader Push














(By Ernesto Londono)




 U.S.-backed Iraqi forces arrested a top aide to anti-


 American Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr in eastern Baghdad on 


 Friday, amid growing signs of stepped-up efforts to quell 


 Sadr and his supporters.



 U.S. military officials said in November that Sadr's Mahdi 


 Army militia represents the greatest threat to Iraq's 


 security. U.S. and Iraqi forces are preparing a renewed 


 effort to pacify Baghdad, including the deployment of 


 additional U.S. troops.



 Abdul Hadi al-Daraji, Sadr's media director in Baghdad, was 


 arrested at his house in the neighborhood of Baladiyat, near 


 the Mahdi Army stronghold of Sadr City, shortly after 


 midnight, said Sadr spokesman Abdul Razak al-Nadawi.



 The spokesman said a guard was killed during the operation. 


 At least two other aides were taken into custody, according 


 to a statement released by the U.S. military.



 The statement did not identify Daraji by name, but said the 


 main suspect was involved in the assassination of numerous




 members of Iraq's security forces and is ''affiliated with 


 illegal armed group cells targeting Iraqi civilians for 


 sectarian attacks.'' The military said the arrest was the 


 result of an ''Iraqi-led'' operation.



 Nadawi said ''the occupation forces are provoking Sadr . . 


 . by these daily operations or every-other-day operations.'' 


 The spokesman added that the cleric's followers ''are the 


 only ones demanding and putting a timetable for the 


 occupation withdrawal.''



 Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, who has been 


 pressured by the Bush administration to bring the Mahdi Army 


 and other Shiite militias under control, was not forewarned 


 about the arrest, said Ali Dabbagh, a spokesman for Maliki. 


 Dabbagh said the prime minister was not notified about every 


 impending high-profile arrest.



 ''No one is untouchable for the security forces,'' Dabbagh 


 said. ''At the same time, no one was interested to go into a 


 fight with the Sadr movement.'' Sadr, whose supporters hold 


 30 seats in parliament, is a key supporter of Maliki, who is 


 a Shiite, but the cleric is also widely seen as an instigator 


 of the country's sectarian violence.



 Neither Dabbagh nor the U.S. military said whether Daraji 


 had been charged with a crime. ''Definitely, if he's not 


 charged, he will be released in a respectful way,'' Dabbagh 


 said.



 Sadr said in an interview with an Italian newspaper 


 published Friday that a crackdown had begun and that 400 of 


 his men had been arrested, according to the Associated Press.



 Maliki told reporters this week that 430 Mahdi Army members 


 had been arrested in recent days, but Nadawi said Thursday 


 that the arrests stretched back to August 2004.



 In the interview, Sadr said his militiamen would not fight 


 back during the Muslim holy month of Muharram, which started 


 Friday for Sunnis and begins Saturday for Shiites, saying it 


 was against the faith to kill at that time.



 ''Let them kill us. For a true believer there is no better 


 moment than this to die: Heaven is ensured,'' he was quoted 


 as saying. ''After Muharram, we'll see.''



 Also on Friday, the U.S. military reported the death of an 


 American soldier killed Thursday by an improvised explosive 


 device.



 The soldier, who was not identified pending notification of 


 relatives, was traveling in a convoy conducting an escort 


 mission in a neighborhood in northwest Baghdad when the blast 


 occurred. Three other soldiers were injured.