---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE HOMES FOR OUR TROOPS ORGANIZATION AND PULTE HOMES
## `6ecb6889377c39f126c240eddd422445`
`Mr. TANCREDO — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. TANCREDO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a program 
that has provided an invaluable service to our nation's wounded 
veterans. The Homes For Our Troops organization is a non-partisan, non-
profit 501(c)(3) group that provides specially built homes to veterans 
who have received debilitating injuries while fighting for our 
continued freedom in the ongoing military conflicts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. These homes are provided at no cost to the family 
receiving assistance. John Gonsalves founded this wonderful 
organization with the aim of providing a service for our soldiers which 
was much needed and even more appreciated. He has dedicated his time to 
this noble endeavor and his organization has proven to be of the 
highest standard of excellence. Homes For Our Troops has been awarded 
the Independent Charities Seal of Excellence. This award, bestowed upon 
members of the Local Independent Charities of America and the 
Independent Charities of America is recognition of the highest level 
for charity work. Fewer than 5 percent of all eligible charities are 
honored with this award.

Providing these homes for our injured service men and women is a team 
effort. Recently, ground was broken on a home for Army Staff Sergeant 
Matthew Keil and his wife Tracy, of Parker Colorado. Numerous 
organizations have teamed up with Homes For Our Troops and provided 
their expertise, materials and time to make this home a reality. Pulte 
Homes, under the guidance of Mike Meneguzzi has designed the Keil's 
future home. Their organization has graciously donated over $31,000 to 
the building effort and one of their employees, Bret Hribar, will be 
operating as the general contractor. Pulte has further demonstrated 
their dedication to worthy projects such as this by providing their 
employees 2 paid days of leave annually to participate in charitable 
projects.

With the help of other local businesses, Homes For Our Troops and 
Pulte Homes have performed a great service for a great American hero. 
Their continued dedication to the welfare of our returning veterans is 
a great example of patriotism which we should all strive to achieve.
