---
---

# MEASURE Y: IRAQ WAR ADVISORY
## `6ed5e56da54b4efc1869795c4451aba0`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today in agreement 
with the wishes of 19,290 voters in Mendocino County, California 
concerning the United States military engagement in Iraq.

On November 8, 2006, Measure Y: Iraq War Advisory was on the ballot 
in Mendocino County. The measure asked the following: Should the United 
States end the military occupation of Iraq and bring the troops home 
now? It passed by 67.17 percent of the vote.

Madam Speaker, the voters who approved Measure Y know what has been 
evident for some time--we need to begin redeployment of the United 
States military forces out of Iraq. As of today, 3,056 brave American 
servicemen and women have been killed in Iraq and over 23,000 have been 
wounded. We must redeploy our troops as quickly and safely as possible 
while putting an emphasis on diplomacy and shifting security 
responsibilities to the Iraqi people.

The President has already spent close to half a trillion dollars on 
war spending and he has called for more troops and more money, but the 
results of our efforts have been to endanger American lives, and worsen 
living conditions for Iraqis. It is time to bring our troops home. The 
will of the American people is indisputable. They want a swift end to 
the U.S. involvement in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, in accordance with the wish of my constituents, I 
submit this advisory into the Congressional Record.
