---
---

# None
## `6edd6bc012559cbbf6a1d67d8379a823`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 14 January 2009`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, we are a bailout Nation, the Nation of handouts, the 
Nation of gimmees. The entitlement mentality has swept this country, 
especially last year, and it has done so, more importantly, with the 
elites, like the banks who think they are entitled to somebody else's 
money, taxpayer money. The banks have been given $350 billion and 
they're back for more, yet they refuse to tell us what they did with 
the first $350 billion, even though we wanted them to.

All of us have gone to a bank to get a loan. First we fill out all 
that paperwork and sign our life away, but they ask us one question, 
what are you going to spend the money on? And then they may or may not 
give us a loan. But no such deal when we're dealing


with banks and the people are loaning banks money. They just show up 
with their hand out, want the money, and refuse to tell us what they're 
going to do with the money or what they did with the money.

In this decade alone, Federal Government spending has grown 57 
percent, $1.2 trillion, and the American taxpayers, of course, pay the 
bill. According to the book ''Bailout Nation,'' the bailouts of 2008, 
last year, cost Americans more than the Marshall Plan, the Louisiana 
Purchase, the Korean war, the Vietnam war, the Iraq war, the 
Afghanistan war, NASA, the race to the moon, the New Deal, and the 
savings and loan crisis combined; the largest example of government 
spending in American history and we still have no positive results from 
these bailouts. The economy is not significantly better, and the stock 
markets continue to drop.

So rather than say ''bailouts aren't working, so maybe we ought to do 
something else,'' it seems our mentality is, ''well, let's give them 
more bailout money and maybe that will work.'' I think that's 
irrational. And of course we don't have the money, we can't afford 
these bailouts. We're spending somebody else's money, the American 
taxpayer money, the middle class especially.

We have all seen these big motor homes lumbering down the freeways 
that have a little bumper sticker on the back that says, ''We're 
spending our children's inheritance.'' Oh, we think that's kind of cute 
and funny, but we ought to put a sign right out here on the Capitol 
grounds that says, ''Uncle Sam is spending your children's and 
grandchildren's inheritance.'' It seems like that is more appropo than 
what's taking place here; it's the philosophy that government knows 
better how to spend the taxpayers' money than the taxpayer. I think 
that's fundamentally wrong.

It's time for maybe us to rethink this idea of taking taxpayer money 
and giving it to certain special interest groups--the banking 
industry--because government bailouts have not solved our problems, it 
creates them.

The best thing we can do with this bailout money is not spend it--not 
spend it yet, for sure--maybe even send the money back where it 
belongs, and that's to the American people; it's our money to manage, 
but it belongs to the American people.