---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6ee392d550e36fe0532fe0f4f7facdc4`
`Mr. SAXTON — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Hoekstra for yielding.

I would just like to build on something that Mr. Shadegg said. He 
said, in essence, that this subject is so important because it goes so 
much further than Iraq. And as a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, I try to keep close tabs on where our soldiers and sailors 
and marines and airmen are deployed. And it may surprise some on the 
other side of the aisle, but perhaps not, to know that we have troops 
deployed in Southwest Asia in five countries; we have troops deployed 
in Europe in quite a few countries, several countries; in Central Asia 
we have troops in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Kyrgyzstan; in 
Southeast Asia we have troops deployed in the Philippines, Thailand, 
and Indonesia; in South America in Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, 
Paraguay, and Guantanamo Bay; and in 19 countries in Africa, all in 
support of the war on terror.

And as Mr. Shadegg mentioned a few minutes ago, it has been clearly 
stated that Iraq is the first battleground chosen to make their stand 
and clearly stated that all of these other places where we have sent 
troops, not because we have extra troops to send somewhere, not because 
we have extra taxpayer dollars that we are trying to get rid of or 
spend, but because every one of those countries exhibits a piece of 
geography where there is a threat related to the global war on terror.

So a vote for this resolution is a vote, perhaps, of goodwill on the 
part of those who will eventually in a few days vote for it, but it 
won't end this war. It won't end the desire of the Islamists to take 
advantage of various situations and, as Mr. Hoekstra mentioned, achieve 
their goals.

And so this is a broad war. This is a war where it will be years and 
perhaps decades to bring to a conclusion. And the worst thing we can do 
is to send messages that we are not serious about carrying out our 
duties in defense of this generation and, as I will point out later, 
future generations of Americans.