---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG SECURITY ALLIANCE BETWEEN JAPAN AND THE UNITED  STATES
## `6efe2b12b699c49acb78d3b68c79919b`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 5 September 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I would like to first rise in support of House Resolution 508, 
introduced by my good friend, Mr. Saxton of New Jersey, and I would 
like to congratulate him for offering this resolution before us today 
because the United States security objectives in the Asia-Pacific 
region could not be achieved without the staunch support of our friends 
and allies in Tokyo. The United States-Japan alliance is, as this 
resolution recognizes, the cornerstone of regional stability and 
prosperity.

When Pyongyang tested a nuclear weapon last fall, we relied heavily 
on our good friend, Japan, which was then serving as president of the 
U.N. Security Council. Together, we achieved passage of Security 
Council Resolution 1718 condemning North Korea's reckless action and 
imposing a series of sanctions. We must continue to work with Tokyo to 
resolve the North Korean nuclear crisis in order to ensure regional 
peace and stability.

Japan has also been an irreplaceable partner in support of our 
efforts to fight global terrorism. Also, in the year 2002, Tokyo 
graciously offered to host the International Conference on 
Reconstruction Assistance to Afghanistan following the ouster of the 
Taliban regime.

We are also very grateful to Japan's Maritime Self-Defense Forces for 
continuing to provide logistical support in the Indian Ocean to 
coalition efforts waging the international war on terrorism.

Most recently, the Japanese Diet approved a 2-year extension of the 
Special Measures Law in Iraq which provides continued funding for the 
reconstruction of a peaceful and stable Iraq. It was also recently 
reported that three Japanese banks have stopped engaging in any new 
business with Iran, and that Japanese financial institutions are 
restricting loans and rejecting an Iranian request to pay for oil 
imports in currencies other than dollars.

We are proud of the U.S.-Japan alliance and deeply grateful for the 
friendship of the people of Japan. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this 
resolution, Madam Speaker, which is of vital importance to the security 
of both the United States and Japan.

Madam Speaker, I would like to yield such time as he may consume to 
the author of this resolution, Mr. Saxton of New Jersey.