---
---

# HONORING AID WORKERS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN
## `6f028903c66d2019754d07ad2b1c1776`
`Mr. SMITH of New Jersey — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes.

First, I want to thank Mr. Pitts for offering this important 
resolution to remember the aid workers who died in Afghanistan. These 
aid workers were killed because of their humanitarian efforts, because 
they were trying to provide the Afghan people with important services 
so they could live in freedom, opportunity, and prosperity.

For undertaking these noble efforts, the aid workers lost their lives 
at the hands of murderous extremists who


seek an Afghanistan in the dark ages, an Afghanistan where people are 
debilitated by poverty and illiteracy, where democratic elections are 
unthinkable, where women and girls are murdered simply for trying to go 
to school, where freedom is a forbidden idea. Such an Afghanistan would 
again be a safe haven for violent extremist groups like the Taliban and 
al Qaeda who seek to destroy our Nation and our allies and to plunge 
civilization itself into darkness. So, Madam Speaker, we continue to 
strive to prevent such a threatening scenario from becoming a dangerous 
reality.

In that respect, we owe a great deal of gratitude to the many 
Americans who have done their part and sacrificed so very much, 
particularly our men and women in uniform, to build a safe, secure, and 
free Afghanistan. And we owe gratitude to the courageous humanitarian 
aid workers who risk their lives as well to save lives and to alleviate 
the suffering of the Afghan people.

In particular, we owe our thanks to the American aid workers who gave 
their lives almost 2 months ago--Cheryl Beckett; Brian Carderelli; 
Thomas Grams; Glen Lapp, who was Congressman Pitts' constituent and 
friend; Tom Little; and Dan Terry. We mourn their loss, and we send our 
condolences to their families.