# None
## `6f0e530b32a649cdee5f87a70f1e3cf2`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it's always good to be on the floor 
with you. It's like old times, like the 108th Congress, Tim Ryan from 
Niles, Ohio, and Kendrick Meek from Miami/Liberty City, Florida.

The good thing I like about doing the work, we are working not only 
with new Members that appeared in the last Congress, but we have a 
level of consistency, even in the majority. Mr. Ryan serves on the very 
powerful Appropriations Committee. I serve on a


committee called the Ways and Means Committee and Armed Services. These 
are just committees that have an awful lot of work, and there is a lot 
to do.

But we are here tonight because it's very, very important to the 
country. I don't have a family member in Iraq. I don't have a family 
member on their way to Iraq, but I do have constituents that fall 
within that circle of individuals.

As we move this conference report, hopefully, it will go through the 
conference session that's going on to the President, and that the 
President doesn't veto this bill. Now, I am going to say this, because 
one may say politically, you probably wanted the President to do it, 
because he will go down further in the polls. It's not about polls, as 
far as I am concerned. It's about accountability to the men and women 
in harm's way.

One may think, well, this has nothing really to do with me. We have a 
volunteer Armed Forces, and they have signed up and they knew full 
well, some of them knew full well they would be deployed. We have 
Reservists signed up. Some of them knew this threat would come one day 
that they would have to be deployed on a third and fourth tour. You 
have National Guard men and women that signed up, they were going to be 
federalized. They had to know they would be federalized at some point 
to go out and fight on behalf of the country.

I just would like to make this point that if one may feel that this 
has nothing to do with your immediate family, you have to think about 
what the war in Iraq is doing to our country right now, our financial 
standing, our financial security. We have an administration in the last 
Congress, which was the rubber stamp Republican Congress, that passed 
everything that the Bush White House called for and asked for. 
Billionaires received tax cuts that they didn't even see coming, but it 
was a gift to them from the Bush administration.

Now, we have borrowed more from foreign nations than we ever borrowed 
in the history of the Republic. I am from Florida. For those of you who 
are Members from Gulf States and along the eastern seaboard, this is 
your issue. Even those from the Midwest or even from the west coast, 
this is your issue, making sure that we have the benchmarks in place, 
making sure that we have the accountability in place, when you look at 
the dollars we are spending, how about the billions of dollars, 
trillions of dollars we are spending on this war. It's your issue. To 
the small-town mayor, to the big-city mayor, to the county 
commissioner, or parish or State legislature, this is your issue.


Some folks said, well, in Washington, you all talk about Iraq, Iraq 
and Iraq again, and then that other issue, Iraq. The reason why on this 
floor Iraq is uttered every day, almost once an hour, two or three 
times an hour, is how can we deal with a national health care plan for 
children? How can we deal with an issue as it relates to helping small 
businesses? How can we prepare ourselves to take on the wave of veteran 
affairs that we have to take responsibility for, because we promise our 
veterans that we will stand with them because they stood with us?

How can we do all of those things when we are carrying on the back an 
Iraqi Government that I must add is looking at going on a 2-month 
vacation, and the majority members of the Iraqi Parliament have already 
said they want a timeline on when U.S. troops are going to be out of 
Iraq.

When you hear things about building a wall in Iraq, when you hear the 
reports over the weekend, Mother's Day weekend, as we were celebrating 
Mother's Day weekend, including myself, on honoring our mothers, my 
mother and my wife and all, we have to hear the report about our men 
and women on patrol in Iraq hit by an improvised explosive device as 
they patrolled at 4-something in the morning, and an Iraqi response 
team from our military showed up, 40 minutes after that event, and come 
to find a burning Humvee, burning, and those that died in that 
explosion, and three of our men that we are still combing the streets 
of Iraq for right now, along with coalition forces.

These are the very things that we talk about in this bill. We talk 
about not only the human loss, and, since when I always come to the 
floor, I just want to say that as of May 15 at 10 a.m., which is the 
latest, 10 a.m. report, death toll is up 3,393; wounded in action and 
returned to duty is 13,975; wounded in action and not returned to duty 
is 11,270. That number continues to go up.

It's very, very important. We pay very close attention to this. So 
when we have the legislation to make sure the troops have what they 
need, make sure that our veterans have what they need, making sure we 
respond to the work that was not done in the last two Congresses, we 
deal with what happened in the Gulf States in Katrina, doing right by 
them, doing right by their children, that their health insurance is 
about to expire, the very children of our country.

Just today I was on the steps talking to an elementary school, 
Phyllis Ruth Miller Elementary School, in my district. I was talking to 
over 100 kids that are elementary kids and some of their teachers. They 
were asking about Iraq, and they were asking about the war. They were 
concerned, and one of the young men asked, well, Congressman, do you 
believe when I get of the age that, you know, I would love to be a 
member, I would love to be a soldier, a member of the Army, do you 
think I will be deployed to Iraq?

I had to have a discussion with him about how we are trying to work 
in a diplomatic way. We want a surge in diplomacy. We want a surge as 
it relates to an escalation and other countries taking part in what we 
are doing.

If it's about, you know, dropping bombs and all of that, we can do 
that better than anyone else on the face of the Earth. But when you 
start putting our men and women into responsibilities when a country 
should take responsibilities for themselves, then we are talking about 
another thing.

I think it's also important for us to note that the bouncing ball as 
it relates to what the President says and what he means are two 
different things. One minute we listen to the commanders in the field. 
The next minute we know what's good for the commanders. One minute we 
say that if the Iraqi Government, and I just happened, I asked staff to 
pull this up, when the President was asked, and he said, But asked if, 
as a matter of principle, the United States would pull out of Iraq at 
the request of a new (Iraqi) Government,'' he said, this is a question 
that was posed to him, '' Absolutely. This is a sovereign government.''

The elected Parliament, a majority of the elected Parliament have 
said they want a timeline. Now, in Congress we are saying we want a 
timeline, and we want benchmarks. The President is saying, I am not 
going to allow you to do it. We have a Republican minority saying we 
are standing next to the President. Then we had 11 Members of the 
Republican side go talk to the President and say, hey, you know 
something, we can only stand in for so long.

Now, if I was thinking in political terms and thinking about serving 
on the committees I am serving on and staying in the majority and being 
a part of leadership meetings and so on and so on, I would say, fine. 
Let the Republican minority stick with the President. Let the 
President, let's just sit back, let's be quiet. Let's just let the 
President talk because as far as I am concerned politically, the gain 
is going to be to Democrats in Washington, D.C.

But if it wasn't war, if it wasn't the future of our children and our 
children's children, if it wasn't the amount of debt that has been 
accumulated with two wars going on and tax cuts that no one asked for, 
and the super, super wealthy are getting tax cuts, subsidies, the oil 
companies that Mr. Ryan tried to address in the first wave of 
alternative energy and alternative fuel.

I am a little glad to see the President talk about an energy plan 
yesterday, and take our dependency off of foreign oil or energy and 
focus on America. I am so glad that the President has caught up with 
the American people and the Democratic Congress and moving in that 
direction. We have already done that.

So the real issue here is if we just pay attention to what people are 
saying, I think that we can figure out why they are doing what they are 
doing. The President, yes, he is going to be President, his term will 
be up in 2008. We want to support the Commander in Chief as far as we 
can.



But as a democracy, as a Congress, we owe it to the people of the 
United States of America to continue to get good and accurate 
information out to them and to make sure that every Member of Congress 
knows exactly what he or she is voting on or not voting on.

You heard me say before, it's important that Members of the Congress 
on both sides of the aisle, that we go see the wizard, that we get a 
little leadership, get a little courage, okay? Go to the President and 
say, hey, listen, this is the way it's going to be. This is not going 
away. The American people are on the side of what's good for America. 
They are not necessarily saying, you know, we love Democrats or we love 
Republicans. They just want good government, and good government is 
making sure we have responsibilities.

Mayors come and speak with me. I had a city commissioner come talk 
with me today. She was sharing with me about, you know, all of the 
things that she has to go through to get a Federal grant.



Well, I don't hear the Iraqi Government talking about all the things 
and the loopholes and accountability measures they have to go through 
to get the taxpayer dollar. And I think it's important that we pay 
very, very close attention to that as we move through.

Let me just speak one more second, Mr. Ryan, not one more second, but 
several seconds.