---
---

# COMMENDING THE 1ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM/34TH INFANTRY DIVISION OF THE  MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
## `6f22b9d16613f7cbeb77b8bde4df1ebc`
`Ms. CASTOR â€” 1 October 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 
185, commending the 1st Brigade Combat Team/34th Infantry Division of 
the Minnesota National Guard upon its completion of the longest 
continuous deployment of any United States military unit during 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. I would like to thank my colleague from 
Minnesota (Mr. Walz) for bringing this measure before the House.

The 1st Brigade Combat Team of the 34th Infantry Division was 
deployed for 22 months, nearly 2 years. That's how long they were 
continuously deployed. This is longer than any other ground combat unit 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Many Americans count down the hours until 
the end of the workday, until Friday night, until the end of the work 
week. Often our commitment to our jobs comes in bundles of 40 hours.

Yet the soldiers of the Red Bull Division had no such luxury. 
Counting down the time until redeployment was computed in entire weeks, 
if not months. Just when they and their families thought they were to 
come home, their deployment was extended by an additional 125 days.

In 22 months some of our brave men and women in uniform missed their 
infants and their young children taking their first steps, saying their 
first words. Some of the roughly 5,000-member BCT missed their kids' 
high school graduations, and they didn't get a chance to move their 
sons and daughters into a dorm for college.

So much can change in 2 years. So many precious moments that we hold 
dear pass by during this time. Yet we go about our daily lives and 
forget that these precious moments that we enjoy are being protected by 
America's tremendous servicemembers.

Even more amazing is the fact that the members of the 1st Brigade 
Combat Team/34th Infantry Division are members of the National Guard. 
These are everyday folks, our neighbors and friends who signed up to be 
citizen soldiers. Their single deployment lasted as long as some active 
duty servicemembers' entire time in our Armed Forces. This was an 
extraordinary commitment and sacrifice on the part of the Red Bull 
Division.

Mr. Speaker, I know Mr. Walz and Mr. Kline, our colleagues from 
Minnesota, will have much to say about these fine Minnesotans as 
representatives of that great State. But I would just like to say how 
proud I am as a Member of the United States House of Representatives 
and as an American, Mr. Speaker, of the 5,200 combat logistics patrols, 
the 2.4 million convoy miles, the 400 captured terrorists and the 22-
month deployment that the 1st Brigade Combat Team/34th Infantry 
Division accomplished.

We can never repay these servicemembers for their time and their 
tremendous sacrifice. But what we can do is enshrine our appreciation 
and thanks by passing this resolution into law.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support House Concurrent 
Resolution 185.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.