# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6f24240bd002447f5106dcaf3d45fef9`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I strongly oppose the Cochran amendment, 
which would strike language in the bill that takes a significant step 
toward ending our involvement in the war in Iraq.

The language I am referring to won the support of 48 Senators just a 
few weeks ago. I voted for it then and will vote to retain it today. 
While it does not go as far or as fast as I would like, it would 
effectively end the President's misguided policies in Iraq by 
terminating, within 120 days, the current open-ended military mission 
in Iraq. At that point, U.S. troops could remain in Iraq for three 
specified, narrow purposes. The remainder of our troops would be 
redeployed. This provision is binding and it would bring to an end our 
current involvement in perhaps the greatest foreign policy mistake in 
our country's history.

Some of my colleagues continue to argue that Congress should defer to 
the Commander in Chief when it comes to Iraq, that we should give him 
the opportunity to change course in Iraq, or that we should allow his 
escalation plan the chance to succeed. Those arguments ignore our 
congressional responsibilities. Congress authorized this war and it is 
in our power to bring it to a close. More importantly, we have not just 
the power but the responsibility to end a war that is draining vital 
national security resources in pursuit of a goal that cannot be 
achieved militarily. The political problems that are driving much of 
the insurgency and sectarian strife in Iraq are tragic and important. 
They require the attention of U.S. policymakers. They do not require in 
fact, they cannot be solved by a massive and indefinite U.S. military 
presence in Iraq. Our troops continue to perform heroically in Iraq but 
there is no military solution to Iraq's problems.

Some of my colleagues raise the specter of dire consequences if we 
redeploy U.S. forces from Iraq. That is precisely why we need a 
strategic approach to redeployment, one that addresses ongoing 
instability and other threats with our intelligence, diplomatic, 
economic and, in a limited manner, military capabilities. Not only is 
the continuation of this war not going to end sectarian and insurgent 
violence, it puts off the day when we develop a comprehensive strategy 
for Iraq that is sustainable and fits squarely within the larger 
struggle of fighting al-Qaida.

As long as the President's policies continue, our troops will 
continue to put their lives on the line, our constituents will continue 
putting billions of their dollars into this war, our military readiness 
will continue to erode, our Guard and Reserve members will continue to 
face heavy burdens, and our ability to respond to an array of national 
security challenges will continue to suffer. From Somalia to 
Afghanistan to the ongoing fight against al-Qaida, we face threats and 
challenges that require serious attention and resources. Right now, far 
too much of both are being spent on a single country. It is this 
single-minded and self-defeating policy that needs to end, and it is up 
to Congress to do so.

Time and again, the President has made it clear that nothing not the 
wishes of the American people, not the advice of military and foreign 
policy experts, not the concerns of members of both parties will 
dissuade him from pursuing policies in Iraq that are not working. Faced 
with a clear mandate from the voters last November, he stalled for 
time, before announcing not just a continuation but an escalation of 
his policies. Congress cannot wait for the President to change course 
we need to change the course ourselves.

The provision that Senator Cochran seeks to strike represents a 
change of course. It requires redeployment of our troops while 
recognizing that the U.S. has an ongoing role to play in addressing the 
terrorist threat in Iraq. While Iraq was not a hot-bed of terrorism 
before the President led us to war in that country, al-Qaida and its 
allies are trying to use the anger and frustrations unleashed by that 
war to their advantage. Like Afghanistan and Somalia, Iraq will need to 
be closely monitored to ensure that it does not become a failed state 
and breeding ground for terrorism. And we must be prepared to pursue 
targeted missions to take out terrorists. But maintaining 140,000 U.S. 
troops in Iraq is not the way to defeat al-Qaida. And military 
operations of any size will only succeed if they are combined with 
other measures including diplomatic, economic and intelligence measures 
as part of a comprehensive strategy for defeating the terrorists who 
threaten our country. Al-Qaida is not a one-country franchise it is a 
global threat that requires a global response.