---
---

# NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `6f2708dd5529c17071db48f94f9b0727`
`Mr. EHLERS — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. EHLERS. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of 
words.



These are always very difficult questions, and I have learned long 
ago never to judge the research by the title of the proposal. These are 
complex issues, and I don't know if the gentleman was here earlier when 
I spoke about the rate of return on research at the National Science 
Foundation. The best estimate is that the rate of return is a minimum 
of 20 percent and a maximum 400 percent on individual research 
projects.



Now, I challenge anyone in this Chamber to find investments that will 
year after year give you that rate of return on the investment.

Another point I would like to make is, as I said, you can't always 
judge the full proposal by the title. This was evident a few years ago 
when we went through exactly the same charade when discussing the 
National Science Foundation budget. Some of my colleagues came down to 
the floor to amend the NSF appropriations bill, and one offered an 
amendment to remove grants for the study of ATM. This person gave a 
magnificent speech why we should not spend money at the National 
Science Foundation or the Department of Energy to study ATM. His 
argument was, let the banking industry do the research on ATMs. What he 
didn't know is that the proposal was not on automatic teller machines 
but the proposal was on studying asynchronous transfer modes, which 
involves the way computers talk to each other. This research led to a 
substantial change in the speed at which computers were able to talk to 
each other. This is a good example of why it is dangerous to just look 
at titles and make a judgment.

I would also pick up on the comment of Mr. Baird about cultural 
studies. I think one of the basic problems in Iraq, and I have told 
this to people in the White House, is that there were not enough people 
in the White House, perhaps even in the State Department, who 
understood the culture of the countries we were dealing with, and we 
failed to realize what would happen once we moved into that country. A 
good NSF-funded study beforehand would have been invaluable in 
determining what would happen.

Another example: a few years ago there was a grant on game theory. 
Once again, one of our colleagues rushed to the floor and said we have 
to eliminate funding for that. In fact, game theory is extremely useful 
in calculating the operation of nuclear reactors.

So I urge defeat of this amendment. It is very easy to sit on the 
House floor and pontificate about these issues. But if we are going to 
cut the budget, there are much more fertile fields in which to cut. Why 
would we cut the one agency that gives us a guaranteed rate of return 
on our investment when there are many other areas we can cut where we 
are getting little or no payback at all?