---
---

# None
## `6f32592337dd2f9f1a1704801b7d5f75`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of the Conference Report on the Labor, Health and Human Services and 
Education and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations 
bills. This bill begins to correct key deficits in biomedical research, 
elementary and secondary education, job training, and health care for 
veterans and civilians alike, and sets out a clear, sustainable vision 
for the future. I want to thank and congratulate Chairman Obey, Ranking 
Member Walsh, the Conferees and their staff for putting together such 
an excellent bill, one which will bring needed relief to so many of our 
constituents.

The President, of course, has vowed to veto this bill, because he 
believes it costs too much, that we can't afford to make these 
investments in cancer research, in Head Start, in economic development. 
Meanwhile, the President is asking us to spend an additional $200 
billion this year alone in his misguided war in Iraq. The amount by 
which this bill exceeds the President's request, $9.8 billion, would 
pay for approximately 1 month of that war. Instead, this bill would use 
that money to help States provide health coverage to people with pre-
existing conditions, help college-ready low-income students afford 
higher education, and help low-income individuals and their families 
keep their homes warm in the wintertime--a wintertime that could well 
feature oil at costs in excess of $100 a barrel.

The President says we can't afford to make these investments; I 
believe we can't afford not to. These are investments which pay 
dividends over time, investments which will keep America strong, 
competitive, and healthy. While I strongly support this Conference 
Report, I would be remiss if I didn't express my concern that this bill 
includes a $27.8 million increase for abstinence education programs, 
which research has shown to be ineffective, and worse, often medically 
inaccurate. Since 2001, we have spent more than $1 billion on these 
programs, some of which tell our children that using condoms is ''like 
Russian Roulette,'' and that HIV/AIDS can be transmitted through skin-
to-skin contact.

Madam Speaker, teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections are 
serious problems that demand serious solutions. Of course we should 
want to delay the onset of sexual activity in our children--what parent 
of a teenager wouldn't want that? But we cannot let that desire blind 
us to the very real fact that teenagers, despite our best intentions, 
will and do have sex, and that our wanting them not to does not absolve 
us of our obligation to protect them and keep them safe.

Pretending that sexual activity among teenagers does not exist will 
not reduce the number of new sexually transmitted infections; it will 
not reduce the number of teenage girls who become pregnant; and it will 
not reduce the number of abortions performed every year.

I want to thank Chairman Obey for including language in this 
Conference Report to ensure that programs will not be funded that are 
medically inaccurate. I hope that in the future, we can continue to 
work together to ensure that our children receive high quality, 
science-based, age-appropriate sex education that is medically sound 
and free from ideological or religious bias. Despite my concerns about 
this program, Madam Speaker, I am proud to support this important bill 
and urge my colleagues to do the same, so that we can get needed funds 
to these critical programs as soon as possible.