# None
## `6f3b80f0052bd62c6710b24a36321bb9`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 24 January 2007`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Thank you for yielding, Mr. Hastings.

Madam Speaker, I rise as a representative of the people of the U.S. 
Virgin Islands, proud Americans who willingly and gladly serve this 
country in every way, including the ultimate sacrifice, as I have said 
on two occasions on this floor this morning, and who only seek the 
fullest representation possible under the Constitution of the United 
States, and that is purely and simply what H.R. 78 does. I thank the 
Democratic leadership, Mr. Hastings, and my colleagues for their 
support.

Just as it did in 1992, the rule granting Delegates the right to vote 
in the Committee of the Whole includes a mechanism which provided for 
an automatic revote in the full House of any of the amendments which 
passed or failed by a margin that included the votes of the Delegates. 
That rule and procedure was tested in Federal court and was upheld as 
constitutional.

While this is less than perfect, as is often said, we must not let 
the perfect be the enemy of the good, or, I add, the enemy of what is 
the right thing to do.

Listening to the strong objections from the other side on the basis 
of unconstitutionality, taxation, and others which are not relevant to 
the discussion, I have to wonder if these same objections would be 
raised by my Republican colleagues, an issue that is clearly one of 
participation and inclusion, if there were four Republican Delegates 
and one Democratic Delegate.

The one Resident Commissioner and four Delegates in the House of 
Representatives are the sole congressional representatives of over 4.5 
million Americans. It is apparently lost to my friends on the other 
side of the aisle that these Americans have no representation 
whatsoever in the U.S. Senate in addition to their Delegates being 
unable to vote in the House of Representatives on legislation that has 
great and enduring impact on the lives of those we represent.

During the historic debate in 2002 on the resolution authorizing the 
use of military force against Iraq, for example, although I spoke on 
the record, I was not able to vote ''yea'' or ''nay'' on behalf of my 
constituents, many of whom I knew would soon be called upon to serve 
and die for their country.

Madam Speaker, my fellow Delegates and Resident Commissioner have 
worked closely with all of you at the committee level, some of us have 
chaired subcommittees or will be doing so in the near future. It is 
therefore fitting and proper that we be given the right to vote in the 
Committee of the Whole once again. It worked well in the 103rd 
Congress; it does not violate the Constitution.

We should be given this greater degree of participation in the 
forumlation of the laws that affect the lives of the people who send us 
here to represent them. And then once we have passed this, we must go 
on from here to give the residents of the District of Columbia full 
voting rights in this body as they deserve.

I ask my colleagues to respect your fellow Americans in the District 
and the territories. Do justice to your colleagues; let's get a 
unanimous vote for democracy. Vote ''yes'' on H. Res. 78.