---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `6f3e36549e714175a10ac1e733a3943a`
`Mr. BOND — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from 
Florida, who has been a hard-working member of the Intelligence 
Committee and has been a great contributor. I am sorry he does not 
agree with the compromise we reached with the House to have the 
district courts make a review. I think that is important. That 
satisfies our needs.

Several points made on the floor today and previously need to be 
answered. It has been said that the new surveillance powers allow the 
Government to collect all communications between the United States and 
the rest of the world, millions and millions of communications between 
innocent Americans, parents calling children


abroad, people serving in Iraq. There is no prohibition on reverse 
targeting.

A plain reading of the bill shows us that this statement is simply 
inaccurate. As the Senator from Utah said earlier today: Unless you 
have al-Qaida on your speed dial, you are not going to be collected 
against. There are safeguards in place to ensure that any conversations 
that do not have foreign intelligence information will not be kept or 
shared, they will be minimized or suppressed.

Americans either inside or outside the United States may not be 
targeted without court order. That ''outside of the U.S.'' protection 
was something we added on a bipartisan basis in the Senate Intelligence 
Committee.

In addition to approving any collection against Americans, anybody in 
the United States, an American overseas, the FISA Court will review all 
procedures used to target foreign communications and make sure that 
communications with innocent Americans are minimized or suppressed.

As far as reverse targeting goes, I refer my colleagues to section 
702(B) of the bill which says:




 An acquisition authorized under subsection 8 may not 


 intentionally target a person reasonably believed to be 


 located outside the United States if the purpose of such 


 acquisition is to target a particular known person reasonably 


 believed to be in the United States.


I can assure you that I and other members of the Intelligence 
Committee have reviewed the procedures, have seen the operations, know 
the supervision, and know the very tight constraints under which these 
professionals operate. They are overseen by supervisors, by higher 
level authorities, by inspectors general, by lawyers, their own 
lawyers, and lawyers from the Department of Justice. Somebody made an 
error and collected some criminal information a year or so ago and that 
was dealt with appropriately. There is no ability for somebody, even a 
rogue who happens to get in, to get away with targeting innocent 
American communications.

There has been a lot of debate also about the Senators having access 
to all of the information. As I pointed out earlier, we set up the 
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence to provide the most highly 
classified information to members of the committee. I have worked hard 
with the chairman, and we have opened to the full Intelligence 
Committee far more information than we ever got before, because I 
believe the Intelligence Committee has a heavy responsibility to make 
sure that what is being done stays within the law, stays within the 
guidelines, and protects the rights of American citizens.

But if you say that every intelligence matter should be briefed to 
the entire Congress, where does that stop? Should we then brief the New 
York Times directly so they can publish a story and decide whether the 
intelligence activity is acceptable? I think not. I think we have seen 
the problems that occur when leaks have compromised our intelligence. 
They have done it too often.

Some people still want to debate the legality of the TSP, saying it 
is blatantly illegal. Well, they persist in their belief that the 
President lacks the constitutional authority to conduct warrantless 
foreign intelligence surveillance, even though article II has not 
changed in over 200 years.

The FISA Court itself, en banc, In re: Sealed Case, has noted the 
President has that authority, and if the Congress tried to pass a law 
saying the President does not have that authority, it would be found to 
be unlawful.

The intelligence community has been overseen by the Intelligence 
Committee, and we have found clearly that the companies acted in good 
faith. Regardless, however, of the legality of the President's TSP, it 
is a matter of fundamental fairness. These providers should not be 
punished by forcing them to litigate frivolous claims or by delaying 
this much needed relief.

Without these companies, without their active participation on this 
and many other matters, the intelligence community is fearful and has 
lost cooperation in the past. They are taking risks by being good 
patriotic Americans, and there are some who want to punish them. They 
want to kick them to get at the administration. Well, this bill does 
not prohibit lawsuits against the Government or Government officials.

I believe the time has come for us to pass a bill after 15 months. We 
now know that we have before us the ability to give clear authority, 
direction, and guidelines to the intelligence community to operate to 
keep us safe. We have added new protections, and if the President had 
not followed the advice of the ''gang of eight'' and had tried to 
reform the FISA rather than using article II, we would not only be 
debating September 11, there would be many others.

I urge my colleagues to vote down all these amendments and pass this 
badly needed modernization of intelligence collection, electronic 
surveillance, and the provisions of the additional privacy rights and 
protections for American citizens.

I yield the floor.















 Amendment No. 5064
