---
---

# None
## `6f57e37f2d5c966a2efeba9b6f18367e`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Senator from Minnesota has been 
waiting patiently for, I believe, an hour or so. I note the Senator 
from New York is on the floor. So I will speak for a few minutes and 
then yield the floor.

I want to point out that again, yesterday, British Army Lieutenant 
General Graeme Lamb, Deputy Commander of Multinational Force, Iraq, and 
senior British military representative in Iraq, was asked by Jamie 
McIntyre of CNN about how ''the growing sentiment in our Congress to 
bring U.S. troops home sooner affected the mood of troops deployed in 
Iraq.''

Lieutenant General Lamb responded that those troops find it ''a touch 
difficult because while it is so clear to them that we are making 
progress, it is not reflected by those who are not in the fight but are 
sitting back and making judgment upon what they, the troops, can see 
with absolute clarity.''

Lieutenant General Lamb noted that those making such judgments and 
not taking note of the progress ''are not going out every day in a 
humvee.'' Moreover, he further noted that the progress the troops see 
is ''seldom reported.'' They see provincial councils. They see water 
going to people who did not have it before. They see electricity coming 
on line. They see stability to the networks. They see all the stuff 
that no one portrays.

That is the view of our deputy to General Petraeus over in Iraq. Yet 
I hear on the floor here--I hear again there has been no progress made, 
that the status quo remains, that there has been no progress. And as we 
get into the debate, we find that those who are supportive of this 
particular amendment, which requires after 120 days a departure from 
the conflict, have no plan B themselves. I have been asked continuously 
what plan B is. And plan B, after the surge, I believe details a set of 
difficult options. But I think it is important that we point out what 
has been happening in Iraq as a result of the surge, even though it has 
been a very short period of time.

In Anbar Province--which we all know is over here, as shown on the 
map. Here is Fallujah. Here is Ramadi. The fact is that last year Anbar 
Province we believed was lost to al-Qaida. The U.S. and Iraqi troops 
cleaned al-Qaida fighters out of Ramadi, which I visited last week, and 
other areas of western Anbar Province. Tribal sheiks broke with the 
terrorists and joined the coalition side. Ramadi, months ago, was 
Iraq's most dangerous city. It is now one of its safest. Attacks are 
down from 30 to 35 a day in February to zero on most days now.

Fallujah. The Iraqi police center established numerous stations and 
divided the city into gated districts. Violence has declined. Local 
intelligence tips have proliferated.

Throughout Anbar Province--this area shown right here on the map--
thousands of men are signing up for the police and army, and the locals 
are taking the fight to al-Qaida. All 18 major tribes in that province 
are now on board with the security plan. A year from now, the Iraqi 
Army and police could have total control of security in Ramadi, 
allowing American forces to safely draw down.