---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `6f5ad46be63ac6362128e1f09452298f`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 20 December 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Well, this started out as a noble effort to reform health 
care because it needs reforming. The inflationary cost of the 
government is unsustainable. Medicare and Medicaid, as the Senators 
from Georgia indicated, are becoming huge problems that are 
unsustainable. Medicare is $36 trillion underfunded.

Now, what does that mean? It means that over the next 75 years, there 
is a $36 trillion shortfall of money to pay the benefits that have been 
promised, and that has to be dealt with.

What we are doing to Medicare makes the problem worse, not better. 
Medicaid is the largest expense in my State. It is a matching program. 
So listen to this--if you are out there on a Sunday with nothing else 
to do but listen to me. If you don't live in Nebraska, here is what is 
coming your way. Your State will be required to cover more people under 
Medicaid because the eligibility goes up to 133 percent above poverty, 
which is an increase over the current system. So throughout the Nation, 
there are going to be thousands more people enrolled in Medicaid, and 
every State, except one, is going to have to come up with matching 
money.

I have 12 percent unemployment in South Carolina. My State is on its 
knees. I have a 31-percent African American population in South 
Carolina. Yet how did the majority get the 60th vote on this bill? It 
was the weekend before Christmas, and they were one vote short--here is 
what they did to get that one vote. They had a deal cooked up that no 
one knew about but the two people talking. There was no input from 
anybody other than the majority leader and the Senator from Nebraska. 
After that meeting was over, they came up with a 380-page amendment to 
a 2,000-page bill. They filed it yesterday, and we made them read it. 
We heard it for the first time yesterday. Then the majority leader 
filled up the tree so that there is no ability by any Republican or 
Democrat to amend their work product.

This is a transparent new way of doing business: you cook up a deal 
in a back room--that is essentially sleazy, in my view--to allow one 
State, in order to get that vote, be held harmless for Medicare 
enrollees, and the rest of us have to go home and hear our constituents 
say: Why can't you in South Carolina and Georgia get that deal? What 
kind of Senator are you?

Well, I will tell you; this is the kind of Senators we are. We are 
not going to do that. We are not going to put the whole Nation at risk 
and take a broken system and make it worse just to get a vote. No way 
in hell.

On abortion, you are either for it or against it or you are 
indifferent. You can be whatever you are on abortion and be just as 
good an American as I am. I am pro-life and proud of it. Most of us in 
America, whether you are pro-choice or pro-life, don't want our Federal 
taxpayer dollars to be used to pay


for abortions. For 32 years, the Hyde amendment has been the law of the 
land, preventing taxpayer dollars to be used for abortion. In this 
health care reform, guess what. That is exactly what is going to 
happen. There is a brave Democrat in the Congress--Bart Stupak, from a 
blue State--who stood up to his Democratic leadership and said: I will 
not vote for a bill that allows Federal taxpayer dollars in the form of 
subsidies to be used to fund abortion because I find that morally 
offensive, and I think most Americans agree with me. He brought the 
House to its knees, saying: You will not pass this bill to use 
federally funded Federal dollars to fund abortion.


What did he get out of it? Nothing. Not one thing for Wisconsin. He 
got out of that deal the pride of knowing that he stood up for the 
unborn.

So the bill comes to the Senate, and Senator Nelson from Nebraska 
tries to introduce the Stupak language that would be an absolute bar 
from using taxpayer dollars to fund abortion. He lost that amendment. 
He said he could not vote for a bill that would allow taxpayer dollars 
to be used to fund abortion. But then he gets in a room with Senator 
Reid, and he comes up with a compromise and he claims it solves the 
problem. The problem is, his claim is not accepted by all those who 
follow this. The compromise he has achieved on abortion is a miserable 
failure.

Congressman Stupak says it is unacceptable. The National Right to 
Life Committee says it is unacceptable. The Nebraska Right to Life 
Committee says it is unacceptable. The Council of Catholic Bishops says 
it is unacceptable. There is not one pro-life group in this country 
that believes Senator Nelson has protected the rights of the unborn. So 
how, in good conscience, do you vote for a bill when that was the big 
issue?

At the end of the day--one last thought--this bill would make an 
Enron accountant blush. They are talking about how it lowers the 
deficit by $132 billion. But they do not tell you that the $247 billion 
doctor fix is not in the bill. What am I saying? Over the next 10 
years, doctors, under the 1997 balanced budget agreement, will have 
$247 billion taken out of their practices unless Congress acts.

Since 1997, Congress, every year, has stepped to the plate and 
forgiven that cut, which is double digits. Everybody knows we are going 
to do that. But when it came to health care reform, they left out the 
doctor fix because if you include it, it no longer is revenue neutral. 
It no longer does what they say.

They say this bill cuts the deficit by $132 billion, but if you 
include the $247 billion, it runs up the deficit in the first 10 years, 
and in the second 10 years it adds $2 trillion to the deficit.

Long story short, this is what Enron did. People went to jail for 
doing this in the private sector. They took the liabilities of the 
company and they hid them, making their balance sheet look better than 
it actually was. So when you hear this reduces the deficit by $132 
billion, they took out a liability that they know we are going to fund, 
just to cook the books.

If this is going to be OK for the country, then we have no hope as a 
Nation of ever solving any hard problem. And I would like to say to my 
colleagues: I know you want to be home. I know everybody on the other 
side wants to be home. I know you want to find ways to solve hard 
problems. Troops in Afghanistan want to be home, too. At least they are 
away from home for a noble purpose. We are here trying to stop a 
legislative process that, if it becomes legitimate--if this becomes the 
OK way of doing business, giving one Senator a deal you will not give 
anybody else and putting the whole country at risk just to get one 
vote--then I hope the American people will rise up in righteous 
indignation and throw us all out because nobody should be representing 
the country this way.