---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6f5f0cd4632e05be5a53bceba3963d11`
`Mr. McCRERY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCRERY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Lewis for yielding me this 
time.

In my almost 19 years in the United States House of Representatives, 
I have cast many difficult votes. And I have often spoken to groups of 
constituents over the years, and in the course of their asking me 
questions, inevitably one of the questions will be, What is the most 
difficult vote you have taken as a Member of the House?

And I am always quick to respond, even though there have been many 
difficult votes, clearly the most difficult vote I have had to make as 
a Member of the House is to vote to send our troops into war.

And certainly the vote that this House made to authorize the 
President to send our troops to Iraq this most recent time was a very 
difficult vote for all of us. Some of us, it seems, have changed our 
minds and wish we hadn't cast that vote. But the fact is we did cast 
that vote. We voted in the majority to start this war.

I believe, based on my reading of history, my studies of past 
engagements, military engagements, it would be a tremendous mistake for 
the Congress of the United States to attempt to micromanage this war 
and bring it to a conclusion through artificially constraining 
decisions on the battlefield.

I have spoken face to face with the President of the United States 
about this war. I know he is trying his best to bring this war to a 
conclusion. He is trying his best to make sure that the interests of 
the United States, as well as the interests of the people of Iraq, are 
served as he plans strategy and works with our military leaders to plot 
the best course for ending this war and preserving and serving the 
interests of the United States.

He has a new strategy in play. It seems to be working. We are getting 
favorable reports from the commanders in the field.

Let us give this Commander in Chief and his military leaders a chance 
to serve this country, to serve Iraq, and end this in the best possible 
way for the United States. Let us not try to micromanage from the 
Congress, with 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate, telling our 
leaders how to conduct this war and when to end it. That is the wrong 
course of action for this country.