# None
## `6f77f5c9cc705fcfa8e5452639c3d3be`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 10 October 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. There are different ways to talk about this 
issue. As a mom, I like to talk about it from the standpoint when I 
talk to other parents that there is pretty much nothing more basic, no 
more guttural reaction that a parent has than wanting to keep their 
child healthy. Everywhere I go when I talk to people, this is the most 
basic thing. It is as simple and as black and white and as big a no-
brainer as most people have ever come across.

A lot of the issues we deal with up here are complex. They are not 
black and white necessarily. There is a lot of gray. There is no gray 
on whether or not, if we can cover 10 million kids, we should. There is 
no gray for most folks. If that is the case, and I am certain that is 
the case in my liberal Democratic district, as opposed to conservative 
Republican districts or moderate Democrat/moderate Republican 
districts. I don't think there is any tinge of partisanship on the 
basic instinct that parents want to make sure they provide health care 
for their kids.

But if that is not the priorities that our colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle share, what is? Well, I think a glance at this chart 
will demonstrate what their priorities are.

This chart details 37 days in Iraq and what that would pay for if we 
were comparing it to what we could pay for to cover children's health 
care.

One day in Iraq costs $330 million in funds that we appropriate. That 
would cover, over the 5 years that this children's health insurance 
program would authorize, 270,222 children.

One week of paying for the war in Iraq costs $2.3 billion, which 
would cover 1,891,551 kids over the 5 years of this program.

A month of the war in Iraq, which we are now in the sixth year, I 
believe, costs $10 billion, and that would cover 8,196,721 kids over 
the 5 years that we would authorize this program.

And finally, over 37 days, which would be about 4/1/2/ months' worth 
of paying for Iraq in the 5-year program, $12.2 billion, it costs us 
for 37 days in Iraq, that would cover the 10 million kids this program 
would cover. So 10 million kids times 5.

They have repeatedly voted to blindly follow President Bush, blindly 
follow President Bush on the war in Iraq, and now, except for 45 brave 
Republicans who understand that children come first, blindly follow him 
over a cliff and vote for $12.2 billion over 37 days in a given month 
and a week for the war in Iraq, and to continue it even though 
Americans want us to withdraw and refocus our efforts on homeland 
security here. And on top of that, choose to spend that money on a 
hopeless war as opposed to funding health care for 10 million kids.

Who is for children and who is just kidding? I think the numbers 
demonstrate that it is clear. They have an opportunity to right the 
wrong that the President's veto pen established last week. Next 
Thursday they can vote to override it, and the American people have 
been speaking and need to continue to speak to their Members who voted 
wrong on this bill. We need 15 more Republicans. We are this close, 15 
Republicans. Grow some courage, see the wizard, toughen that spine or 
grow one. Vote to override the President's veto and 10 million children 
get health care coverage.