---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `6f7ac3cf8b1a1c55ca3b421c3a3f9568`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 13 July 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor SPC Clayton D. McGarrah, 
20, of Harrison, who died July 4, 2010, in Arghandab, Afghanistan, in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom. According to initial reports, 
Specialist McGarrah died of injuries sustained when an improvised 
explosive device detonated near his dismounted patrol, followed by 
small arms and rocket-propelled grenade fire.

As Arkansans and Americans gathered together to celebrate our 
freedom, SPC Clayton D. McGarrah made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf 
of our Nation. My heart goes out to his family for their loss. Along 
with all Arkansans, I am grateful for Specialist McGarrah's service and 
for the service and sacrifice of all of our military servicemembers and 
their families. I am committed to ensuring they have the full support 
they need and deserve. Our grateful Nation will not forget them when 
their military service is complete.

Specialist McGarrah was assigned to C Company, 2nd Battalion, 508th 
Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. 
His wife and parents reside in Harrison.

More than 11,000 Arkansans on Active Duty and more than 10,000 
Arkansas Reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 
11, 2001. These men and women have shown tremendous courage and 
perseverance through the most difficult of times.As neighbors, as 
Arkansans, and as Americans, it is incumbent upon us to do everything 
we can to honor their service and to provide for them and their 
families, not only when they are in harm's way but also when they 
return home. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.
