---
---

# HONORING THE BRAVERY OF WORLD WAR II VETERAN BERNARD RADER
## `6f7c39ac078be2076aae0e9c48fd6591`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor Mr. Bernard 
Rader, a true American hero who valiantly served this country in World 
War II. Today and everyday, we owe members of our military--soldiers 
like Bernard Rader and so many of his generation who faced grave danger 
in order to restore freedom and preserve the dignity of mankind, our 
sincerest debt of gratitude.

I had the privilege to first meet Mr. Rader in Normandy, France in 
2004, on the 60th anniversary of the D-Day invasion. It was then that I 
first learned of this man's extraordinary story of survival and 
heroism. A Private First Class with the 30lst Regiment of the 94th 
Infantry Division, his unit was ambushed and forced to surrender to the 
Nazis in October 1944. As a Jewish soldier, he feared his fate as a 
prisoner of war. Surviving his imprisonment, Bernard was returned to 
the Allied forces in one of the few prisoner exchanges to take place 
between the Germans and Americans during World War II.

For service to his country and in recognition of his combat wounds, 
Bernard received the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. On November 6, 
2007, Bernard was personally thanked by French President Nicolas 
Sarkozy and awarded the Legion of Honor, in recognition of his 
sacrifice for the Liberation of France. I join the many in honoring 
Bernard Rader--this Nation remains indebted to his service.

Madame Speaker, I would like to offer Bernard Rader's powerful and 
personal story for the Congressional Record. I am submitting ''The 
Ambush'', an article published in the Hartford Courant, which 
chronicles Bernard's war experience and faithful return to France with 
his family 60 years later, as described by his son Robert Rader--who 
I'm proud to note is from Connecticut's First Congressional District. I 
urge my colleagues to join me in thanking Mr. Bernard Rader for his 
service to this nation and for sharing his heroic story with all of 
America.








 [From the Hartford Courant, July 25, 2004]
















 The Ambush














(By Robert J. Rader)




 Dad and the two other veterans strained to pick out their 


 comrades from the pictures of basic training at Fort McCain. 


 ''Remember this one? What was his name?'' Their eyes, now 60 


 years older, strained at the fuzzy prints. ''Have you heard 


 from Higgins or Schulman or Boyd recently?'' We were on a 


 ferry from Lorient, on the western coast of France, to Ile de 


 Groix. During World War II, the port of Lorient remained in 


 Nazi hands till the day after Germany had surrendered. All 


 three men had been imprisoned by the Nazis after being 


 captured in an ambush in October 1944: two of them were held 


 on the Ile de Groix, the third--Dad--on the mainland. The 


 boat glided swiftly across the water. The day was overcast, 


 with mist rising from the sea, but the sun would soon burn 


 the mist off and, as we reached the island, break through. 


 The three veterans--my father, Bernard I. Rader; Kermit 


 Harden; and Bob Moore--sat on benches in the cabin and talked 


 about the men who died. They remembered the food the French 


 people sneaked to them at a time when few had much to feed 


 their own families. And they talked about the young American 


 Red Cross officer, Andrew Gerow Hodges, who had braved 


 getting shot by mistake, either by the Germans or the 


 Americans, to arrange one of the few prisoner exchanges on 


 the Western Front in World War II. They dubbed their trip 


 ''The Andrew Gerow Hodges Tour.''



 The ferry nosed past a massive cement building that still 


 contained submarine pens. The low-slung building, several 


 football fields in size, had been built with walls 20 feet 


 thick to withstand heavy Allied bombing. The weather-beaten 


 structure was a monument to the slave labor that had 


 struggled to build it with wartime speed.



 This would probably be the last time the three veterans, 


 all over 80, would make this trip to visit the countryside 


 where their young lives had taken such a crucial turn. Many 


 of their buddies who had wanted to come could not. Hodges was 


 not in good enough health to make the trip. They would see 


 the site of the ambush, where their patrol had come under 


 fire and their comrades had been slain, and the places where 


 they had been held prisoner. They would thank the French 


 people for the help they gave them. They would converse again 


 with the people of Ile de Groix, and leave a plaque 


 expressing their thanks on the wall to the entrance of Fort 


 Surville on the island, where Harden and Moore had been 


 imprisoned for 47 days in 1944. They wanted to pay tribute to 


 their five friends killed in the ambush by visiting the 


 cemetery at St. James, where they rest forever. And they 


 wanted to honor Hodges--without whom, they believe, they 


 would not be alive today. They wanted to tell the story of 


 what happened so many years ago and how he came to get them 


 out. With those goals in mind, the three veterans and their 


 wives and children had come back to Brittany. We family 


 members listened as the men recounted their war experiences, 


 as soldiers have done since long before World War II. Many 


 veterans of that war, who are now dying off at the rate of 


 over 1,000 a day, never talked to their families about what 


 they had gone through. But Dad did not shy from discussing 


 his war experiences. He watched World War II movies with 


 interest (we knew if there was a swastika on the cover of a 


 videotape we'd rented, he'd be interested), and, despite the 


 stroke he suffered in 1999, has spoken at libraries, schools 


 and other sites, telling his story and encouraging other 


 veterans to tell theirs. Mom has been his main support, 


 helping him in every way with these ''gigs'' and explaining 


 what had happened when Dad could not find the words.



 Dad was trained as an infantryman and made private first 


 class by the time he shipped out to England on Aug. 6, 1944. 


 After further training, his unit sailed on a Liberty ship for 


 France, came ashore at Utah Beach on Sept. 3 and marched to 


 Brittany. He served as a sentry there, helping to keep the 


 Germans contained while the Allies pushed through France to 


 Germany following the D-Day invasion. On the October day he 


 and his unit set out on patrol, only to be ambushed and 


 captured, he tasted combat for the first time. Dad began 


 reacquainting himself with old buddies over the past few 


 years, as he became more proficient than we ever thought he 


 would be at email. He got in touch with a number of those who 


 had been in his company and was contacted by others after I 


 wrote up his story and posted it on the 94th Infantry 


 Division's web site. I thought it was important for me to 


 share this one last, great adventure with my parents. Curious 


 about the war, and an amateur historian, I knew I had to tag 


 along.



 I expected that this would be an emotional trip. It did not 


 disappoint. The ferry landed in the harbor at Ile de Groix, 


 about five miles from Lorient. On this beautiful, green 


 island the Germans had set up artillery to protect their 


 position in the port. They had also set up a prison for 


 captured soldiers. It is hard to believe that such a 


 picturesque place would be ideal for a prison. But its 


 remoteness from Allied troops, together with its closeness to 


 the fortified mainland city, made it a perfect location for a 


 prison, with virtually no opportunity for escape. The island 


 had a far different mood on May 26 of this year, when our 


 little tourist group boarded a bus to travel to a lane out in 


 the country. The unpaved road, bordered by fields where 


 flowers grew wild, had been renamed in honor of the 94th 


 Infantry Division when Dad and some other veterans came here 


 four years ago.



 Our group of veterans and their families were joined by 


 about 30 town officials, journalists, former members of the 


 French Resistance and others. We walked about 100 yards down 


 the lane and came to an area with ancient, weather-beaten 


 walls on both sides. Ahead was the entrance to Fort Surville: 


 a narrow archway the prisoners had been marched through 60 


 years ago. On one wall we noticed an American flag 


 covering something on the wall. Strangely, it had 36 


 stars. The mayor explained that the flag had been sewn in 


 1944 by a Frenchwoman, whose daughter now joined us. It 


 was to show support for what she hoped would be the 


 eventual liberation of the island by the Americans. It was 


 kept in the chimney of the house where the woman lived. 


 She had no access to a real American flag, so had guessed 


 at the number of stars. When a German was in her house and 


 asked her what the colorful cloth was doing in the 


 chimney, she said that it was used, like paper, to wrap 


 meats that were being cured. Had the Germans known the 


 truth about what she had done, she would certainly have 


 been punished. The mayor made a speech, the first of many 


 we would hear, extolling the amity between the French and 


 American people. He gave thanks for what these soldiers 


 had done in helping to liberate France. He then reached up 


 and gently pulled the flag down, exposing the plaque the 


 veterans had donated, and warmly presented the flag to the 


 three veterans. They accepted it with some reservation. 


 Their first thought was that it was such a wonderful work 


 by an Ile de Groix citizen that it should stay on the 


 island. But rather than taking a chance of insulting their 


 hosts, they decided to bring it home and exhibit it in the 


 Museum of the 94th Infantry at Fort Devens, Mass.



 It was then the turn of the three veterans. They, too, 


 talked about the friendship and love of Americans and the 


 French. And they dedicated the plaque, which they had paid 


 for and which my family designed and had made in France. It 


 was black with gold letters, written in English, French and 


 Breton, the language of the region. It was for those who had 


 helped them by giving them apples, eggs and potatoes 


 surreptitiously while they were held on this island. It read: 


 ''To the people of Ile de Groix, who gave us so much, when 


 they themselves had so little. Company K, 301st Regiment, 


 94th Infantry Division.''



 The outpouring of love on both sides struck me as being in 


 sharp contrast to what I had been hearing about the French 


 and Americans since the U.S. decided to invade Iraq. We were 


 feted no fewer than six times by representatives of local 


 French governments. While I heard criticism of President 


 Bush, there was no doubt in my mind that there still existed 


 a love for the people who had returned freedom to them in 


 1944 and 1945. It seemed to me that we in the United States 


 seemed to be quick to answer French policy on Iraq with 


 mockery (remember




 ''Liberty fries?''), while the French people I met were 


 gentle in counseling us about Iraq. As citizens of a country 


 that has had its own problems fighting guerrilla wars in 


 Vietnam and Algeria, they made their opinions known with a 


 sense of deja vu. While Americans remember that we helped 


 save France in World War II, maybe we forget that it was 


 France that saved George Washington and the American rebels 


 during our Revolution.



 The many receptions we attended all featured champagne, 


 some food (from a few crackers and cookies to a three-hour 


 marathon lunch) and many local government officials. I found 


 it great fun, especially trying to use my high school French 


 to converse with the inevitably non-English-speaking people 


 who would sit with us. I joked with my parents about how the 


 French seemed to have such trouble understanding their own 


 native language. We began to joke that certainly there would 


 not be a day without a local reception and a picture in the 


 local French newspaper of the three ancient combatants the 


 next day. And believe me, we kidded the vets about being 


 ''ancient combatants'' many times.



 Dad had been held in the hospital in Lorient because of his 


 wounds. We rose early one morning to visit it. Lorient held a 


 key submarine facility for the Germans and was considered, 


 along with two other ports, so hard to capture that the 


 Allies contained it, instead of attacking it, from 1944 until 


 1945. The submarine pens were bombed without effect, so the 


 Allies decided to make the city as uninhabitable as possible 


 for the Germans. Their planes dropped 250,000 incendiary 


 bombs on the city, destroying 90 percent of it. A young, 


 pony-tailed French hospital worker gave us a tour of the 


 bunker the Nazis built on the grounds of the facility to 


 protect injured German soldiers and sailors. He then 


 brought us up to the second floor of the hospital, where 


 Dad, who had been hit by a concussion shell, had been 


 nursed back to health. Because the hospital was being 


 modernized, the wing where he had been held was empty of 


 patients. The rooms were bare, but clean and painted in 


 dull, institutional colors. It took awhile for Dad to 


 recognize the room he had been held in so many years ago, 


 but at last he did, and when he looked out the window, his 


 memories flooded back. He remembered, he said, that the 


 Germans were all around and that he couldn't leave the 


 second floor. Outside there were more German soldiers, but 


 there was also a Frenchwoman who saw him looking out the 


 window. She must have known he was a prisoner, because she 


 cupped her left hand and on it, with the fingers of her 


 right, drew the Cross of Lorraine, the symbol of the Free 


 French. It was a sign to my father that he and the handful 


 of prisoners in the hospital were not alone. As he said, 


 when he thanked the Lorient officials for their reception, 


 that woman had given him something as important as food: 


 She had given him hope.



 I get chills when I hear that story. I imagine Dad, a 


 wounded 20-year-old, unsure of what the future would bring, 


 lying in a hospital, surrounded by Nazi soldiers. During the 


 ambush, he had taken off his dog tags and his friend, George 


 Boyd, had buried them, since they identified Dad as a Jew. In 


 the hospital, he kept a picture of Jesus above his bed and 


 was careful never to reveal his religion. That afternoon, we 


 drove out to the town of Etel, which sits at the mouth of the 


 Etel River, which back in 1944 was on the front line between 


 the Allies and Germans. It was here that the exchanges of 


 prisoners took place. The veterans again told the story of 


 what had happened. Allied prisoners held by the Germans had 


 gotten word through to U.S. forces that they had nothing to 


 eat. According to a Red Cross account, the 94th Infantry's 


 commanding general asked Hodges to see about getting supplies 


 to the POWs. Hodges began making regular trips across German 


 lines. Though he was under the Red Cross flag, he was often 


 at risk of being shot by one side or another. He finally 


 realized a prisoner exchange would make more sense. To his 


 surprise, the Germans agreed. Allied commanders agreed, and 


 on the morning of Nov. 17, the first exchange began. 


 Eventually 147 soldiers were swapped in four exchanges, on a 


 one-to-one basis, with men of equal rank. The Germans refused 


 to turn over one British officer who had escaped several 


 times. They wanted five German soldiers with Iron Cross 


 decorations in return. Hodges then asked the Germans, ''If 


 you are such good military men, how could one British officer 


 be worth five of yours?'' After banging on the table, the 


 German officer relented. We have photographs of Dad being 


 exchanged and old, yellowed newspaper clippings announcing 


 the event. I had always imagined the exchange in black and 


 white, as in the photos, with the ''jollyboat'' carrying 10 


 men at a time going back and forth across the river. But, 


 now, in Etel, where the water was blue and the dock cement-


 yellow, I imagined my Dad moving from black and white into 


 color. Though his wounds were mostly healed, he was on a 


 stretcher because he had gotten the flu a few days before; he 


 was coming back to the American side, no longer a prisoner. 


 He was overjoyed and his future was again before him, in all 


 the colors you can imagine.



 There is no way to repay the debt Dad feels to Hodges. What 


 can you give to a man who has saved you from the very depths 


 of misery and the verge of starvation and found a way to 


 bring you back to the full color of life? Dad believes that 


 the way to repay him in part is to tell the story of Hodges' 


 courage. And he does: to newspaper reporters, to kids at 


 schools, to people interested in what happened during the war 


 and even to some people who made the mistake of sitting next 


 to us at an Indian restaurant that night. The next day we 


 headed out, on a rented bus, to where the ambush happened. We 


 were led by Frank Perammant, a Frenchman who was 14 years old 


 at the time of the ambush and befriended a number of the 


 American soldiers because he wanted to learn English. He 


 remembers them going out on patrol on the cool, crisp morning 


 of Oct. 2, 1944, because they walked right by his home. Our 


 bus first stopped on the side of the road, and Perammant led 


 us over to a plaque mounted on a stone wall marking where an 


 American lookout had been killed a few days before the 


 ambush. As he explained what had happened there, we walked 


 along the side of a house and along a fence, where he said 


 the American soldiers had come from. And then we drove 


 perhaps a quarter-mile down the road to the ambush site, 


 in the tiny hamlet of Kerdudal. As we got off the bus and 


 the veterans looked around, the questions started: ''Where 


 were the Germans? Where were their lines? What direction 


 were you coming from?'' Back in October 1944, the 


 Americans, who were containing the Germans in the Lorient 


 ''pocket,'' heard there were a number of Germans 


 interested in giving themselves up. They set out, about 50 


 of them, walking through country crisscrossed by 


 hedgerows--ridges 6 feet high topped by thick, virtually 


 impassable hedges. As they walk forward, disaster strikes: 


 A scout is shot at the beginning of the line and the 


 patrol comes under heavy attack. As the Americans are 


 driven back, Dad bandages the leg of a wounded Free French 


 lieutenant and drags him 500 yards to a road bounded by 


 two high hedgerows, where the Germans cut off their 


 retreat and pin them down with automatic weapons fire. The 


 men fight for six hours as the Nazis pound them with 88s, 


 mortars, machine guns, grenades and rifle fire. The 


 Americans call in artillery, but the fighting is so close 


 that they are hit by the friendly fire. They find out 


 later they are outnumbered 12 to 1.



 About 3 p.m., Dad sees a concussion mortar shell land 50 


 yards away, right in the center of the road they are in. The 


 next falls 25 yards away, and he knows he will be hit by the 


 third. It throws him like a rag doll to the ground. He's 


 helpless and bleeding from shrapnel wounds in his legs, hands 


 and right arm. He is in shock, not knowing if he'll live or 


 die, and, the fight blasted out of him, spends the next two 


 hours of the battle lying on the side of the road. As I stand 


 by the side of the road, I imagine I am in the scene. I hear 


 myself call out to this 20-year-old kid, numb and wounded and 


 lying on the ground, ''Hey, you'll be OK, this will work out, 


 hang in there--you'll make it!'' I tell him that he'll live 


 many more years and have a wonderful family and 


 grandchildren. As though I am the father, I shout expressions 


 of love and hope to this helpless boy lying there motionless. 


 By 5 p.m. it's clear reinforcements can't break through, and 


 those who can still fight are out of ammunition. One soldier 


 puts a white bandage over his rifle to signify surrender. He 


 stands up and raises the rifle. A German machine-gunner 


 apparently does not realize that he is trying to give up and 


 he fires. The American is cut in two. Finally, the Germans 


 understand and the Americans surrender. The Germans take the 


 Americans into captivity, with Dad in a wheelbarrow pushed by 


 his friend, George Boyd.



 Two months later, Dad would write a detailed account of the 


 battle in a letter to his parents and sister Gloria. He 


 described the aftermath this way: ''It doesn't matter much 


 but we caused the enemy nearly four times our number 


 casualties . . . The Germans themselves respected us to the 


 extent of not searching us for weapons (taking our words for 


 it) and not forcing us to hold our hands up, telling us we 


 were too good a bunch of fighters to be shamed in such a way. 


 I don't know for sure if I killed and I don't want to. It's 


 hard to write because I hate to remember but I know you want 


 to know just what happened. . . .'' As I return to real life 


 in 2004, the three veterans can't tell exactly where they 


 were during the ambush. Perammant pointed out it was here the 


 first shots were fired. The vets were not so sure. The land 


 has changed. There are no more hedgerows; they were flattened 


 out over 60 years ago by farmers who decided that flat land 


 was easier to farm. Trees had grown where before there were 


 none. A few old houses were still there, maybe the only 


 surviving objects that could bear witness. A French couple, 


 working in their ever-so-peaceful garden, were kind as they 


 listened to the story, and said they thought the dirt road 


 they pointed out was the one on which the men were led away. 


 We walked down this cart path, retracing, the veterans trying 


 to remember. There are no battle markers here; the only other 


 thread to the past is the recollection of the three men. The 


 story they tell about the ambush is what makes it real. A 


 half an hour later, we're sipping hot chocolates and Cokes at 


 a little cafe as if what happened on this land 60 years ago 


 was ancient history. But something in me has been deeply 


 touched by seeing where this pivotal event in Dad's life had 


 happened.



 As I sit in my hotel room and think about why I am so 


 touched by this ordinary piece of French countryside, I 


 realize that seeing the ambush site somehow connected me to 


 my father on a new emotional level. I feel I have come face 


 to face with Dad as he was 60 years ago, when he went through 


 the worst experience of his life. In some almost mystical 


 way, seeing him at the ambush site, at




 the hospital and at the scene of the exchange made my view of 


 him and my connection to him more complete than anything I 


 had ever experienced. And it gave me a view of my family 


 history more alive than it had been in the stories I have 


 heard since I was a child. Returning with him to Brittany 


 wasn't about glorifying war; it was more about sharing a part 


 of the most frightening moments in his life in a way that was 


 so real, so close. It was like reliving a part of his life 


 through his eyes. They were now not just heroic tales of days 


 long ago; they were as recent and real as the reports we see 


 on the 6 o'clock news. I've often heard that men fight 


 battles not for their countries or for apple pie. When they 


 are in a foxhole or pinned down in a hedgerow, they fight for 


 themselves and their buddies. When they are gone, buried in a 


 foreign land, who remembers them? Their parents have long 


 since passed away. Their wives or sweethearts have moved on 


 to others. And life has continued.



 So the veterans thought it important to say goodbye to 


 their buddies who died in the ambush in Kerdudal. We drove to 


 the Brittany American Cemetery and Memorial in St. James, a 


 beautiful burial ground, smaller than the more famous one 


 overlooking Omaha Beach, but just as well-kept. On a 


 beautiful spring day, we walked among the too-many crosses 


 and stars of David until the veterans found the graves of the 


 five men to whom they had come to pay their respects. They 


 stopped next to the cross over the grave of the soldier 


 killed when attempting to surrender during the ambush. In the 


 quiet, as we watched, they each stood on one side of the 


 cross and Kermit read a prayer written by the soldier's 


 brother-in-law. The haunting, final sound of Taps was heard 


 across the cemetery as the veterans stood with their hands 


 over their hearts. And tears ran down Dad's face. The 


 veterans remembered this man, as they remembered all the men 


 who had died that day in October. Each buried comrade was a 


 real person with dreams and emotions and, they thought, their 


 whole lives to look forward to. Each was more than just one 


 of the thousands of crosses and stars of David planted in 


 straight rows in the American cemeteries in Europe.



 Dad has wondered aloud to me why he lived when his friends 


 did not. Why could he come home and they lie in the 


 cemeteries of France? There's no answer to these questions. 


 Maybe it was luck; maybe fate or God intervened. But surely 


 it was important for him to say goodbye one last time and to 


 remember. I watched him as he stood with his eyes closed and 


 wiping the tears from his face. Maybe it is just an automatic 


 human reaction, but I felt my own chest tightening and the 


 tears welling up in my eyes, too. But it was not only for the 


 men we were honoring that I found myself choking up.



 It was also for Dad and what he had done. He had survived 


 the intervening decades and now, at an age when so many of 


 his colleagues won't attempt much more than a trip to the 


 supermarket, he had accomplished the four goals he had when 


 he had set out: he had seen the land again; he had thanked 


 the French people; he had said goodbye to his friends; and he 


 had honored Hodges.



 While the trip was not over, for Dad, the journey was 


 complete. Mom and I were so very proud of him. For me, it was 


 a trip of a lifetime. I had relived the worst day of Dad's 


 life, in Kerdudal, and the best, in Etel. I had seen what he 


 had gone through in a way that no book and no movie could 


 ever recreate. I also had learned again from Dad how to thank 


 those who had served at a time of need, to honor those who 


 have fallen for our country and for those who showed 


 tremendous bravery in helping their fellow men.



 This journey to the past was a gift from my father. For an 


 instant, he gave me the ability to touch the past and see him 


 and these places as they once were. I could relive with my 


 Dad that time of his life when he was young and strong and 


 thought he was invincible. That is a gift few sons ever get 


 to share with their fathers. I will always be grateful that I 


 had that chance.



