# None
## `6f84cb7c802c1fd4fe51af4fbc457cb3`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. To go deeper than that, let's explain 
exactly what the deal is. Let's delve one layer deeper into this, 
explain exactly what the deal is for banks here.

We already guarantee all of these loans for the banks. That's a great 
deal. You tell me that I'm going to lend money to somebody and if they 
don't pay it back, somebody else is going to pay me back? Well, guess 
what, I'll probably make that loan.

But then what we did on top of it, on top of it was we gave them a 
cut of the loan, too. You know what we figured out? They're still going 
to make the loans even if you don't give them a cut of the loan. 
They're guaranteed loans. They're essentially guaranteed loans. That's 
just commonsense.

And so as Mr. Ryan said, this becomes sort of a socialist welfare 
program for just a different set of people, people that are doing 
pretty well already. So, to me, this is just commonsense. So to a lot 
of people it's commonsense.

When we go back in our districts, we're hearing a lot of people 
talking about Iraq. People are behind the Democrats' plan to reorder 
our priorities there and start going after the real bad guys, but there 
are a lot of people struggling just with getting by every day and every 
week, and there are a lot of young parents who are raising young kids 
and looking at college costs, thinking to themselves how on earth am I 
going to do this.

And to think that one of the things that stands in their way is a 
system now that subsidizes some pretty well-off banks, at the expense 
of those parents and their kids, is ludicrous. I mean, frankly, I could 
probably sit there, even coming from a pretty fiscally conservative 
State like Connecticut, I could probably sit here and justify bringing 
in new revenue somehow in order to increase money for student aid. I 
think I could sell people back in Connecticut, and say, listen, we've 
got to put a little more into the pot and we're going take care of 
students who need help, I mean truly meritorious students.

We don't even have to do that here. We don't even have to make that 
argument. All we have to do is say listen, we've just got to shift 
moneys from the haves to the have-nots. That's the brilliance of this 
program.