# None
## `6f850750ef6dfadafe500dd53dd8e12b`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman is right. Last week 
during all of the Speaker ceremonies, one of the things was a mass up 
at Trinity College where the Speaker went to college. There were two 
pictures up on the altar. One was a picture of a kid in Darfur and the 
other was a kid from Hurricane Katrina. There were pictures of these 
kids from New Orleans and Darfur all over. I think that kind of 
symbolized where this Speaker is taking this House of Representatives, 
that is, we are going to act in the best interest of those kids to 
protect them by implementing these recommendations.

I think the frustration we see on the other side of the aisle, and 
there is always a level of frustration because you are in power and 
then out of power, but the one level of frustration from the other side 
of the aisle is this stuff isn't brain surgery. We have been waiting 
years to implement some of this stuff. The minimum wage, 10 years. The 
9/11 Commission report has been out for a long time. Some of these 
other things such as negotiating drug prices, we are actually going to 
get this stuff done in the first 100 hours of legislative business we 
are doing here. I think there is a level of frustration on their side 
because some of them wanted it and it couldn't get through, or they 
don't want it and we are implementing it. But this agenda has the 
support of the American people.

In some ways, these are broad parameters for us. But take the PAYGO 
rules. We are going to make sure that we are only spending money that 
actually comes into the Treasury. We are not going to go out and borrow 
from China. I know our friends who were here before were talking about 
we are going to get rid of all of the tax cuts. We are going to 
implement middle-class tax cuts, and we are going to ask some of the 
people who have been making millions, if not billions, of dollars over 
the past couple of years to pay more. If you are making millions of 
dollars a year, we are going to ask you to pay more in taxes. And the 
reason we are going to do that is we are either going to ask you or we 
go and we borrow it from China. You are benefiting a great deal from 
the economy that we have here, from the political system we have here, 
and we need your help in balancing our budget.

Now, there is nothing that has more of an effect on average people 
than increased interest rates. As we borrow money and borrow money, 
money becomes scarce in the market, and interest rates go up. If you 
try to buy a house or car, interest rates have gone up and you are 
paying more. We are going to keep those tax cuts for the middle class, 
and we are going to ask the wealthiest to pay a little more. And by 
balancing the budget, we are going to try to reduce interest rates, and 
that will lead to another economic boom like happened in 1993 when 
President Clinton and a Democratic Congress balanced the budget. That 
is the way it is going to be.

We are proving to the American people, and this is the exciting part, 
I think the American people took a leap of faith on us. In the last few 
days, we have actually done what we said we were going to do. Later 
this week we are going to continue to do what we said we were going to 
do, and next week we will do what we said we were going to do. And when 
the President gets here to give his State of the Union, he will have a 
Democratic agenda lying on the table to have to discuss, and that 
includes the war in Iraq.