# THE BUDGET
## `6f9c80b55d84a314cc0cc595f23755c6`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I thank the very able Senator from 
Michigan, Senator Stabenow, who is an extremely valuable member of the 
Budget Committee, for her contribution throughout the budget process 
this year. She has been an absolute champion of the green jobs 
initiative. We have $2 billion in this conference report for green 
jobs, which is not only going to help the economy, but it is also going 
to be good environmentally, and we think even better long term in the 
economics of the country, because we are going to have, as the world 
turns its attention with greater concern to environmental issues, high-
paying jobs here in this country.

That takes some work, some investment. That is provided for in this 
conference report. Frankly, it is one of the things I am most proud of 
in this conference report. It would not have happened without the 
effort of the Senator from Michigan. She deserves great credit for 
that. She has also been one of the real leaders on making certain that 
our veterans coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan have the health care 
they need and deserve. That is the second part of this bill of which I 
am especially proud--the additional resources--some $3 billion above 
what the President requested--for health care for our Nation's 
veterans.

A third area in which the Senator from Michigan has been especially 
helpful has been the health care. She has championed health information 
technology, and we have a reserve fund here to take advantage of the 
opportunity that is out there for the Nation by more broadly adopting 
the use of information technology in medical care.

The RAND Corporation has told us--and the Senator has brought it to 
our attention repeatedly, and that is why it is very much in my mind--
that we can save $80 billion a year, if I am not mistaken, if we would 
broadly adopt information technology in the health care industry, the 
health care sector. Think of that--$80 billion a year, over 5 years. 
That is more than $400 billion. So that makes common sense.

I will conclude by saying I think this has been a healthy and full 
debate today. We have had almost 4 hours, which is about typical on a 
conference report. I am being informed by the leadership we will not 
vote until tomorrow morning. I am told that the likelihood is that the 
budget, which is subject to agreement with both sides--I am being told 
of the likelihood that the budget vote will not occur until perhaps 
9:30 tomorrow morning. I am told the farm bill override vote will also, 
most likely, occur tomorrow.

I don't have that conclusively, but that is the initial indication I 
am receiving, that that is the most likely outcome. So I urge Senators 
not to jump in their cars and head home without checking out with 
leadership staffs on both sides, but that in fact is the likelihood. I 
don't think I have anything further to add.

I do think we have laid out the case for this conference report 
clearly and, I hope, in a compelling way. This has been a difficult 
challenge--to write a budget in an election year. We know the Congress 
has not adopted a budget in an election year since 2000. It is 
extraordinary, if you think about it. This country, in an election 
year, has not had a budget since 2000. That cannot be the way we do 
business around here.

I am very proud we had a budget last year. I am very proud we are on 
the brink of getting a budget this year, even though it is an election 
year. I hope that sets an example for whoever is in charge that getting 
a budget does matter.

We have to bend our best efforts on both sides to make certain that 
this country, the greatest nation on Earth, has a budget. That is about 
as basic as it can get.

I again thank the Senator from Michigan for her leadership and her 
great assistance on the Budget Committee and also on the Agriculture 
Committee on this very important legislation on which we will be 
seeking to


override the President's veto. That bill really should not be called a 
farm bill. It is far more than that. It is a food bill, an energy bill, 
a conservation bill, a trade bill, although inadvertently the enrolling 
clerk over in the House dropped off the trade title. So that will 
create a bit of a challenge for us as well.

I thank very much the Senator from Michigan.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
data on pay-go.