# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `6f9e6b5a03a6e7296260cc98563f2cd1`
`Mr. AKIN — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Thank you, Congressman Hunter, for yielding. Let me just 
take a moment to thank you also for your great leadership on this 
committee through the many years. What a fantastic teacher you've been 
to some of the newer members. I'm so thankful for your leadership, your 
patience.

And also the gentleman from Mr. Everett's district, Mr. Saxton, great 
leadership.

Then I would also like to say, Chairman Skelton, thank you very much. 
You make the people from Missouri proud for the way that you've 
continued the good tone of the committee. I think it was really a 
classy thing to name this bill after Congressman Hunter, and it just 
shows the quality of leadership that you've provided, and so I want to 
thank you, Mr. Chairman, as well.

As the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, Dr. Snyder has 
been doing a great job. We've had a chance to look into a number of 
different subjects, particularly progress in the reconstruction efforts 
in Afghanistan and Iraq. This bill contains some of the things that we 
discovered particularly in the importance of Provincial Reconstruction 
Teams and the important work that's been done on that subcommittee.

I would just like to say that there's a lot of criticism of Congress. 
In fact, I think our popularity rating publicly is maybe not too good. 
But on the other hand, I think what the public would really like to see 
is they'd like to see us stop bickering and just plain solve some 
programs. I think this committee and the subcommittees have been 
largely a good example of that, and that's because of the tone of the 
leadership that we've seen.

As others have before, I have my opinions about how this bill could 
be improved, and there are several areas that I am concerned with. The 
first are the significant cuts to missile defense and particularly the 
missile defense that needs to be built in Poland and the Czech 
Republic. I believe that that missile defense is critical for the 
defense of our country from Iran and also some Western European nations 
from Iran.



I think it's the wrong time to be cutting missile defense. We have 
just had a very successful demonstration of this technology, as we shot 
down a rogue satellite that had a lot of hydrazine in the fuel tank, 
and we were able to get rid of that threat very effectively.

So aside from missile defense, there's one other area that I am 
distressed about, and that is the only comprehensive major Army 
modernization program in the last 30 or 40 years, which we now know as 
Future Combat System. That has also had a number of hundred million 
dollars removed from it. It's something we have discussed in committee. 
I think it's a wrong decision. Next year, we are going to make a go or 
no-go on this overall program, and to be continuing to slash and cut 
away at that budget, I think, is counterproductive.

This said, my only other complaint is there's just not enough money 
in this budget to fund defense the way I wish we could. But if there 
are constituents who would like to see people who are just rolling up 
their sleeves and solving problems, all they need to do is come to the 
authorizing committee of the Armed Services.