---
---

# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `6fb060f0772e0f3f1afc51148b87c28d`
`Mr. ENSIGN — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, this afternoon, I rise to add my voice to 
the current debate on the President's announced plan to reinforce 
coalition forces in Iraq by sending additional American soldiers and 
marines to Baghdad and Al Anbar Province in an effort to bring 
stability to that volatile part of that country.

For some time now, Senators have been clamoring for President Bush to 
send additional troops to Iraq. They criticized him for trying to 
accomplish our goals in Iraq without committing sufficient resources to 
get the job done.

Look, the President has recognized that a change in strategy is 
absolutely necessary. Many have previously called for this same 
strategy. But it appears to this Senator that because it is the 
President's plan, some Senators are predisposed against it.

A simple review of newspaper and Sunday talk show transcripts reveals 
some Senators appear to have supported the surge before they were 
against the surge. Senator Kerry on NBC's ''Today'' program on June 29, 
2005:




 We don't have enough troops in Iraq. . . . There aren't 


 enough people on the ground. . . . The way you honor the 


 troops and the way you provide a policy to America is to do 


 everything possible to win.


Senator Durbin on December 21, 2006:




 If we need initially some troops in Baghdad, for example, 


 to quiet the situation, make it more peaceful so that our 


 soldiers start coming home, then I would accept it.


Mr. President, that is exactly what General Petraeus has said, and 
Secretary Gates before the Armed Services Committee said the same 
thing. It is an initial surge to try to get Baghdad under control so we 
can begin bringing our troops home.

Senator Dodd on December 18, 2006, said:




 I'd be willing to support some additional people if we 


 needed it in order to get the job done.


He further said:




 Show me some demonstrable evidence that they are coming 


 together as a people--Shias and Sunnis--sitting down and 


 recognizing that they have an obligation to come together as 


 a people. Then I'd be willing to support some additional 


 people if we needed it in order to get the job done.


Senator Levin in January of 2007 said:




 A surge would be worth considering. The American people are 


 skeptical about getting in deeper . . . But if it is truly 


 conditional upon the Iraqis actually meeting milestones and 


 if it's part of an overall program of troop reduction that 


 would begin in the next four to six months, it's something 


 that would be worth considering.


Once again, in testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee 
yesterday, that is exactly what Secretary Gates said, that it is a 
temporary surge in order to try to bring the troops home.

Senator Biden on June 29, 2005, said:




 There's not enough force on the ground now to mount a real 


 counterinsurgency.


Senator Jack Reed, in a press conference on November 29, 2006, said:




 If the military commanders in Iraq said, we need, for X 


 number of months, 20-plus, 25,000 troops, to do this mission, 


 I would have to listen to that proposal. I think I responded 


 to the question before: That if the military commanders in 


 Iraq said, we need, for X number of months, 20-plus, 25,000, 


 troops to do this mission, and with a reasonable certainty of 


 success, I would have to listen to that proposal, certainly.


Well, Mr. President, within the last 2 weeks, there have been 
additional developments that would seem to add weight to the argument 
that this temporary reinforcement of our troops currently in Iraq is 
not only warranted but necessary to the overall national purpose. Those 
developments are the unanimous confirmation by this Senate of General 
Petraeus, who is to become the new commander--he is the new commander 
of the Iraqi multinational force--also, the testimony of the Iraq Study 
Group cochairman, relative to the President's plan, before the Senate 
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the public release of the National 
Intelligence Estimate report on the prospects for Iraq's stability.

During his confirmation hearing, General Petraeus, also the author of 
the Army's new counterinsurgency manual, stressed the fact that he 
could not succeed in providing needed security for the citizens of 
Baghdad and Al Anbar Province without the additional troops called for 
in the President's plan.

General Petraeus further testified at his hearing that it was his 
opinion that any resolution which stated the Senate did not support the 
strategy to be carried out by our men and women in uniform in Iraq 
would be harmful to their morale. Are we going to support General 
Petraeus or not? The one resolution before us, I believe, is not 
supporting General Petraeus and the troops.

Last week, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations held a hearing 
on America's interests in Iraq, at which the witnesses were the Iraq 
Study Group cochairman, former Secretary of State James Baker, and 
former Congressman Lee Hamilton. Secretary Baker referenced the Iraq 
Study Group's report in articulating that group's position on 
additional troops to Iraq. He stated:




 We could support a short-term redeployment or surge of 


 American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad or to speed up 


 the training and equipping mission if the U.S. Commander in 


 Iraq determines such steps would be effective. The only two 


 conditions are short-term and commander in Iraq determines it 


 would be effective. Both of those conditions have been met.


Mr. Hamilton made it clear his belief that the President's plan ought 
to be given a chance. He said:




 We did not, in the Iraq Study Group report, come to the 


 conclusion that it was hopeless and, therefore, we should 


 just pull out immediately.


The much anticipated and just released National Intelligence Estimate 
report entitled ''Prospects for Iraq's


Stability: A Challenging Road Ahead'' was quite candid in its 
assessment that if coalition forces are withdrawn within the next 12 to 
18 months, we will see significant increase in the scale and scope of 
sectarian conflict in Iraq.

Mr. President, we need to accept the fact that we are engaged in a 
struggle of biblical proportions. In true American fashion, though, we 
are doing the right thing. We are attempting to free a people from a 
life of tyranny and violence. We are also in a struggle against the 
forces of evil who are bent on our destruction. Do we pack up and 
leave, even though every voice of reason tells us that Iraq would 
implode into a terrorist state used by al-Qaida as a launching pad 
against the infidels, reminiscent of Afghanistan under the Taliban? And 
those infidels, they think, are us.

As Senator McCain has reminded us time and again, Iraq is not 
Vietnam. When we left South Vietnam, the Viet Cong did not pursue us 
back to our shores. Al-Qaida is not the Viet Cong. Al-Qaida has sworn 
to destroy us and is committed to bringing their brand of terror to 
America.

President Bush never said the struggle for freedom in Iraq would be 
easy. But since the President is the one who said that, maybe it 
doesn't ring quite as true to some. Maybe by quoting another who spoke 
passionately about similar struggles for freedom, the point could be 
made more clearly. Back in 1857, Frederick Douglass spoke about the 
struggle he knew for freedom. He said:




 The whole history of the progress of human liberty shows 


 that all concessions yet made to her august claims have been 


 born of earnest struggle. If there is no struggle, there is 


 no progress. Those who profess to favor freedom, and yet 


 deprecate agitation, are men who want crops without plowing 


 up the ground. They want rain without thunder and lightning. 


 They want the ocean without the awful roar of its many 


 waters.


We are introducing freedom to a country and a region that has no 
history of such freedoms. We cannot expect to spread freedom and 
democracy to this region simply by wishing it so.

We currently have soldiers and marines in harm's way. We have a plan 
before us that will aid their mission. That mission is to achieve 
success and leave behind a stable and democratic Iraq. Yet there are 
those among us who want to cut and run. There are some among us who 
simply want to cut and walk. And then there are others who want to have 
it both ways. They want to express their opposition to the idea of 
sending additional troops to Iraq without having to do anything that 
might actually translate their opposition to a reality on the ground.

I belong to another group of thinkers. I belong to a group who 
believes General Petraeus's plan deserves a chance. I believe the 
temporary surge in the number of soldiers and marines in Baghdad and Al 
Anbar is our best chance at getting this right. None of us knows for 
sure whether it will work. There are always uncertainties in war. Let 
us all pray, for all our sakes, that this new way works.

Last week, I stood here and spoke about what I thought needed to be 
done in Iraq. I acknowledged that mistakes have been made in this war 
and that I did not believe we should be playing politics while our 
soldiers and marines are deployed and fighting against an enemy bent on 
destroying our country and our way of life. I called on my fellow 
Senators then to set party differences aside and focus on winning this 
war. I am here again this afternoon making that same plea.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.