---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6fbfd62755747073d48322206ecc0684`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I want to voice my support for this 
supplemental, not because I agree with everything in it, but because I 
agree with the most important thing in it: a binding deadline to 
redeploy our troops from Iraq.

We need to redeploy our troops from Iraq, first and foremost, because 
it is in our national security interest.

As someone who voted for the original resolution, I am particularly 
pained by the suffering of the thousands of our servicemembers killed 
and tens of thousands wounded. I'm glad this bill begins to put the 
appropriate resources into caring for those coming home with traumatic 
brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder, and beginning to fix 
the problems at Walter Reed Medical Center and other facilities. It is 
outrageous that this Administration has allowed our uniformed men and 
women to be treated so shabbily.

I also have enormous sympathy for the families of servicemembers 
killed and injured in Iraq. I agonize about those on the home front who 
worry every day about getting that horrible visit, and who struggle to 
raise children, pay bills, and lead some semblance of normal life with 
family members in a combat zone. I want our troops to come home.

Yet the hardships they and their families endure are not the reason 
to bring our troops home. I know that the men and women in uniform, and 
the families behind them, are willing to make the sacrifices they do if 
that is what it takes to make America more secure.

But the truth is, this war is not making us more secure.

By manipulating the intelligence and rushing to war, ignoring our 
allies, grossly mismanaging the occupation, and basing this entire war 
on ideology and hope rather than expertise and pragmatism, the 
Administration has torn our national security fabric.

Staying in Iraq, policing their civil war, does not bring us closer 
to defeating the global network of extremists who wish to harm us. To 
the contrary, in order to improve national security and best address 
our other strategic interests around the world and here at home, we 
must dramatically change our current direction in Iraq.

Redeployment from Iraq will enhance our security by allowing us to 
properly address other potential challenges around the world, from 
Afghanistan, North Korea, and Iran to the Western Pacific, the Horn of 
Africa, and the greater Middle East. In particular, it will allow us to 
put our attention back on Afghanistan and Pakistan and the fight 
against a resurgent al Qaeda and Taliban, the enemies who actually 
engineered 9/11.

Bringing troops home also allows us to resolve the concerns about the 
readiness of our Armed Forces, which have been strained to the breaking 
point because of this Administration's careless management of the war 
in Iraq.



Perhaps most importantly, only by extricating ourselves from the mess 
of Iraq can we begin moving our country back to a common-sense policy 
of strength through leadership. Every day our military is in Iraq our 
standing in the international community erodes further.

Already we've seen respect for the United States plunge from record 
highs after 9/11 to record lows now. This loss of moral authority 
compromises our ability to lead multinational efforts to fight national 
security threats from terrorism and nuclear proliferation to global 
wanning and drug trafficking.

We cannot begin rebuilding our international credibility and 
leadership until we have redeployed from Iraq. We cannot restore the 
flexibility to meet the real, potentially existential threats of 
nuclear terrorism that were used to justify the invasion of Iraq until 
we exit Iraq.

We hear dire warnings about the awful results if we leave Iraq. It is 
true that bad things may happen when our Armed Forces leave if the 
Iraqis cannot or will not choose reconciliation over conflict. But that 
will be true if we leave at the end of this year, the end of next year, 
or in 2015. Delaying redeployment only delays the Iraqis' moment of 
responsibility.

The sooner we begin redeployment, the sooner we begin unraveling the 
tremendous damage that this war and its mismanagement have wrought on 
our national security. Given the Administration's history of 
manipulation and deceit, the interim deadlines of December 2007 and 
March 2008 may not prove binding, since the President can make 
certifications that waive those deadlines. I will support this 
supplemental, however, because it does set a binding deadline on 
withdrawal no later than August of next year. I would like the deadline 
to be sooner, but most important is that we bring finality to this war.

Our men and women in uniform have served our country courageously and 
performed brilliantly--just as they always do. But asking them to stand 
between warring factions is not only unfair, it's counterproductive.

I believe in a strong U.S. engagement around the world, including 
using military force when necessary. I also believe, as did Presidents 
Roosevelt, Truman, Kennedy, and Reagan, that America's greatest 
strength comes from its values and its ability to lead. We need to 
restore America's leadership. We need to strengthen America's security. 
We need to pass this supplemental and begin the redeployment from Iraq.