---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `6fcf65b8fe3b509a66635996d36c8884`
`Mr. SHIMKUS — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, leaving the Capitol last night, I came 
across a sign on the Seventh Street Bridge overpass that said, 
''Democrats, get a peace plan.''

Clearly, someone felt that this nonbinding resolution does not get us 
any closer to peace, and some, myself included, would argue that this 
resolution takes us further away from our goal of securing the peace. 
Retreat, surrender, leaving, disengagement, that is the view of some 
politicians in Washington, DC, making decisions on combat operations 
overseas. If there is any clear comparison to Vietnam, this legislation 
is it.

Here is the Republican plan for peace, victory. In the 1980s, it was 
a peace through strength that was a military I was proud to serve in. 
Our last best chance for victory is by supporting the decisions of the 
commanders in the field. Their current request is to reinforce the 
Iraqi military and police who will take the lead in military action 
against all insurgents and al Qaeda in Iraq.

We are to ensure reconstruction continues to empower Iraq's security 
forces and newly elected leadership to be prepared to fully assume 
their destiny, and to leave, when asked, by a sovereign country of 
Iraq.

It is our national security interest to support moderate Arab states. 
Moderate Arab states that are democratic observe the rule of law, 
support women's rights, and are allies with us in the war on 
international jihadist terrorists. We have an opportunity for Iraq to 
be a moderate Arab state and an ally.

However, we can be assured if we leave early that the radicals will 
take over after an ensuing and huge bloodbath and will forever be an 
enemy to the United States. During the buildup to the Iraqi 
constitutional elections, I wore a flag pin representing both Iraq and 
the United States of America.

As I have traveled about my district in the past weeks, I have put 
the pin back as a sign of solidarity with a sovereign and free Iraq. 
What this resolution does is sever this alliance. This commitment 
emboldens our adversaries. It tells the world we are unable to go the 
distance and keep our commitment to do the right thing.

Well, I will not accept defeat, and especially from political 
armchair quarterbacks. The military commanders in the field have asked 
for reenforcements. This appeal may be our last best hope for a free 
democratic Iraq willing to be able to protect their citizens and 
support us in the war on terrorism.

Are we politicians sitting safe and secure in Washington, DC, going 
to say no to this request? Surely not.

Throughout our history, a debate such as this has occurred on the 
floor of the House and across the Nation. Monday was the 198th 
anniversary of the birth of our 16th President, Abraham Lincoln. At his 
tomb I read this quote from the Gettysburg Address, which I believe is 
applicable today. ''It is for the living, rather, to be dedicated here 
to the unfinished work which they who have fought here have thus far so 
nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great 
task remaining before us--that from these honored dead we take 
increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full 
measure of devotion--that we here highly resolve that these dead shall 
not have died in vain . . . ''

Instead of fighting, we are arguing amongst ourselves. We ought to 
commit our country to finish the task at hand. We should be united in 
the cause and to pray to God, the Creator of all, to bless our efforts 
here, the efforts of our military, the government of Iraq, her people, 
and, yes, even our enemies.

I want to end with another quote from Abraham Lincoln. In his 
farewell address to Springfield as President-Elect, he said: ''Today I 
leave you; I go to assume a task more difficult than that which 
devolved upon General Washington. Unless the great God who assisted him 
shall be with me and aid me, I must fail. But if the same omniscient 
mind, and Almighty arm that directed and protected him, shall guide and 
support me, I shall not fail, I shall succeed. Let us all pray that the 
God of our Father may not forsake us now. To him I commend you all. 
Permit me to ask that with equal security and faith, you all will 
invoke His wisdom and guidance for me.''

May God bless our President and military leaders. May God bless our 
men and women in uniform who volunteered to protect our Nation from 
harm, and may God bless the United States of America.