---
---

# VETERANS BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC WELFARE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2010
## `6fcfd445723e3730a2715344ec995a0a`
`Ms. RICHARDSON — 29 September 2010`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6132, 
which improves the social services currently offered by the U.S. 
Department of Veterans Affairs, VA, by reaching out to and providing 
benefits for many veterans not currently enrolled accounted for under 
our current federally-funded programs.

I want to thank Chairman Filner for his leadership in bringing this 
resolution to the floor. I also thank the Congressman for sponsoring 
this legislation and for his dedication to ensuring that this nation 
does everything it can to repay our veterans for the sacrifices they 
have made to protect us.

Mr. Speaker, as the representative of a district that is home to over 
23,000 veterans and the VA Medical Center of Long Beach, I know how 
important it is to ensure that our veterans have the resources to 
access affordable health care, housing, and financial security.

H.R. 6132 establishes a transition program for new veterans not 
eligible for other employment aid programs. With 40 percent of young 
veterans from who Iraq and Afghanistan more likely to be unemployed 
than anyone in their age group, it is vital that we continue to 
demonstrate our support for them through bills such as this.

The bill's provisions are aimed at directly improving the disability 
claim system by extending the 120-day limit for filing an appeal to the 
Court of Veterans Appeals after a final decision of the Board of 
Veterans' Appeals. The bill would also increase the pension amount for 
Medal of Honor recipients, establish an award program that will allow 
the VA to recognize businesses for their contributions to veteran 
employment, and protect veterans from losing their non-service 
connected pension benefits.

Mr. Speaker, the bold actions taken by Congress and the 
Administration thus far have been critical in assisting our courageous 
Veterans. Not only have they provided the vital services that our 
veterans have earned, but they also equip our former soldiers with the 
resources they need to lift them out of unemployment and live stable, 
healthy lives.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 6132.
