---
---

# IRAQ
## `6fd9aeabaafddab7aa035b69fc4b9956`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. I rise today to speak about the war in Iraq. There is a 
lot of talk in this Chamber and across this town and across the country 
about our economy, and that is justifiable. But we have to remember 
that in the midst of a difficult economy in America, there is a lot to 
talk about and to work on to respond to that. We still have a war in 
Iraq to worry about, to debate, and to take action on. I don't think we 
can lose sight of a war that grinds on without end in Iraq.

This war does burden our troops, obviously, with repeated and 
prolonged deployments and, in fact, drains our national resources. The 
war hampers our efforts in places such as Afghanistan and Pakistan, the 
real frontlines in the global struggle against Islamic terrorism and 
extremism.

So we must ask ourselves at least a couple of questions when it comes 
to the war in Iraq. There are many, but there are at least a few I can 
think of.

What are we in the Congress doing about this war today, this week, 
this month, and in the months ahead, even as we struggle to deal with a 
difficult economy?

The second question might be: When will the Iraqi Government start 
serious discussions on national reconciliation?

Third, how will we know when we have achieved our objectives in Iraq? 
How will we know that?

Finally, and I think the most compelling question is: When will our 
troops come home?

Last night, the President spoke about a number of topics, and one was 
the economy. One of the first words the President said with regard to 
the economy, he talked about a time of uncertainty. Mr. President--
President Bush I mean--I disagree. With regard to the economy, this is 
not about something that is uncertain. It is very certain. The lives of 
Americans, the perilous and traumatic economy they are living through 
is not uncertain or vague or foggy. It is very certain. The cost of 
everything in the life of a family is going through the roof, and we 
have to make sure we respond to that situation.

I argue that word ''uncertainty'' does apply when it comes to the war 
in Iraq in terms of our policy. I would argue to the President what is 
uncertain, if there is uncertainty out there in our land, it is about 
the war in Iraq. Uncertainty, frankly, about what our plan is in Iraq 
and what is this administration and this Congress doing to deal with 
this war in Iraq. That is where the uncertainty is. I think the reality 
of the economy is very certain for American families.

While the headlines about Iraq have all but vanished from the front 
pages and television screens and the administration continues to divert 
attention elsewhere, we have a fundamental obligation as elected 
representatives of the American people to continue to focus on the war 
until we change the policy and bring our troops home.

We marked the first year anniversary of the President's decision to 
initiate a troop escalation in Iraq, and we are coming upon the fifth 
anniversary of the invasion of Iraq.

Last night, in his State of the Union Address, the President 
described the surge in very positive terms. Make no mistake about it--
we all know this--our soldiers have succeeded in their mission with 
bravery and heroism and violence in many parts of Iraq is, in fact, 
down. Yet despite all that, despite all that effort, despite all that 
work, Iraq today is still not a secure nation, and it will not be 
secure until its leaders can leave the Green Zone without fear of 
assassination. It will not be secure until they can leave the Green 
Zone without fear of suicide bombings. It will not be secure until its 
own national Army and police forces can stand up and protect all of 
Iraq's people without regard to ethnicity or creed.

In assessing whether the surge has worked, we should pay attention to 
the President's words from a year ago. President Bush declared in 
January 2007, when he first announced the surge:




 Iraqis will gain confidence in their leaders and the 


 government will have the breathing space it needs to make 


 progress in other critical areas.


Those are the President's words. So let's judge this issue by his 
words. Judged by those standards enunciated by the President, we can 
only conclude the surge has not worked, if that is what the objective 
was. I add to that, when I was in Iraq in August and I talked with 
Ambassador Crocker about the terminology used by this administration 
with regard to the war, because I said sometimes the terminology is way 
off and misleading, he said: The way I judge what is happening here is


whether we can achieve sustainable stability. That is what he said, 
sustainable stability.

Based upon what Ambassador Crocker said and based upon what the 
President said, if we measure what is happening now against those 
standards, the surge has not worked, based upon those assertions by the 
Ambassador and by the President.

The troop escalation did not prompt the Iraqi Government to make the 
hard choices or to meet the benchmarks laid out by the administration. 
As General Petraeus told me in that same meeting this past summer in 
Baghdad, the war in Iraq can only be won politically, not militarily, 
and he said that on the public record as well. But on national 
reconciliation, oil sharing, and other key issues where Iraqis must 
forge agreement in order to allow U.S. forces to eventually withdraw, 
we do not see nearly enough progress. In fact, the evidence of 
substantial progress is very bleak.

We heard recently about things that have been happening in Iraq. 
Although the Iraqi Parliament passed a debaathification measure this 
past month, it is unclear how far the legislation will go toward 
addressing Sunni concerns, since serious disagreements exist on the 
law's implementation. Some contend that former Baathists will still be 
barred from important ministries such as Justice, Interior, and 
Defense.

As has often occurred in the past, once again the Iraqi political 
leadership has chosen to avoid the hard choices and instead kick the 
can down the road, ensuring further bloodshed and national 
fragmentation in the interim.

We all know how long this war has endured. It has endured longer than 
the war we know as World War II. It is longer than that war, with over 
3,900 dead, 178 Pennsylvanians, the number of wounded in Pennsylvania 
is about 1,200 or more; across the country, 28,000. Our military forces 
have done everything we have asked of them. They have matched the 
bravery and success in every way possible of those great American 
warriors who preceded them in past conflicts. But our troops, the best 
fighting men and women in the world, cannot force a foreign government 
to be stable, they cannot force the Iraqi national police to put aside 
their deep-seated sectarianism and corruption, and they cannot force 
Iraqi political leaders to want progress as much as our troops do and 
as much as the Iraqi people deserve.

We have much to do to make progress. But here is what is happening 
lately. This is a very important point, and I conclude with it. The 
President is showing every sign that he intends, in the waning days of 
his administration, to lock the United States and, in particular, to 
lock our fighting men and women into a long-term strategic commitment 
in Iraq without consultation with the elected representatives of the 
American people in Congress. He has signaled to the Iraqi Government 
that the United States can maintain significant U.S. troop levels in 
Iraq for at least 10 years--10 years--if not longer. He seeks to 
negotiate a long-term strategic agreement with the Iraqi Government 
that would commit the United States to providing security assurances to 
the Iraqi Government against external aggression--an unprecedented 
commitment that could embroil the United States in a future regional 
conflict or even a full-scale Iraqi civil war. The President's senior 
aides have proposed that such an agreement would need to be ratified by 
the Iraqi Parliament--the Iraqi Parliament--and bypass the U.S. 
Congress. That is unacceptable to me and I think to anyone in this body 
and to the American people, and it is why five other Members of this 
body joined me in December in sending a letter to the President stating 
that the Congress must be a full and coequal partner in extending such 
long-term commitments.


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
my letter of December 6, 2007, to the President.