---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `6fde84f292f4aeb282a6d0387388f392`
`Mr. STEARNS — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the 
Democrats' so-called emergency supplemental. This cynical bill uses our 
troops as a political bargaining chip for additional billions in 
unrelated, pork barrel spending, which has nothing to do with winning 
the global war on terrorism. This bill has become a Christmas tree of 
pork.

I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, what does $25 
million for spinach growers, $74 million for peanut storage, and $50 
for the Capitol Power Plant have to do with winning the wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan?

Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, the list of unrelated spending goes on 
longer than I have time.

Spinach producers and peanut farmers may very well need and deserve 
the money. And I am sure the Capitol Power Plant needs improvements, 
but why in this bill? Why is this money not being considered through 
regular order or subjected to normal budgetary rules, like PAYGO? And 
most importantly, why at the expense of our troops?

This important spending bill is being used as a vehicle to 
micromanage the war and score political points. Our troops deserve 
better. We need to focus on getting the equipment to our troops on the 
front lines and get away from political posturing.

However, this bill is not about the troops. It is about politics. It 
is about tying the hands of the commander-in-chief because some in this 
body do not agree with his policies.

People on both sides of the aisle can certainly agree that mistakes 
have been made in Iraq and a change of strategy is long overdue. 
However, what should this change of strategy be? Should the U.S. 
immediately pull out of Iraq, leave the terrorists emboldened and 
potentially put more Americans at risk? Or do we need a new strategy to 
win the war and finish the job?

While no proposal guarantees success, a precipitous withdrawal of 
U.S. support would guarantee failure. The stakes are too high to fail 
in Iraq. It remains in America's strategic interests to ensure regional 
stability in the Middle East and to deny terrorists a safe haven in 
Iraq.

I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill. Furthermore, I hope 
that the House leadership will bring up a clean bill that focuses 
solely on supporting our troops and not one filled up with pork and 
unrelated spending.