# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `6fecc9b5df56e57b1903432d283cfc82`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, before the Senate, I understand, is a 
Graham amendment dealing with border security. Then there is a second-
degree amendment that has been offered on top of that which effectively 
is where we are at the present time. I would like to make a few 
comments about this whole issue that has been brought up by Senator 
Graham in terms of the security aspects at the border.

Those of us who supported a comprehensive program on immigration 
reform supported strong border enforcement because we know there are 
400,000 or 500,00 people who have come across the border, minimally, a 
year. We don't know their names. We don't know where they go. They 
disappear into American society. There is no question, on a matter 
dealing with homeland security, we have to be serious about dealing 
with our borders. We understand that.

That is why it is so interesting to me, when I saw we had that 
opportunity 2 years ago, we had a great deal of fuss on the other side 
about building a fence along the border and then, after they got their 
vote, the Republicans never funded that particular program.

When we had a chance a few weeks ago to do something on comprehensive 
border control, again the Republicans, the other side, voted no; they 
voted it down. Now we have the proposal to try to, I guess, make them 
politically OK among the voters. We know this issue of undocumented and 
illegal immigration is a complex one, is a difficult one.

We know the primary reason people come across the border down in the 
Southwest is because of the magnet of jobs in the United States. This 
amendment does nothing about the magnet of jobs. We should not delude 
ourselves, if we say we are going to support this particular proposal 
and then not deal with what is the basic cause of the hundreds of 
thousands of people who come here, and that is the magnet of jobs. This 
amendment doesn't deal with the magnet of jobs. Maybe it has a good 
political ring to it out there on the hustings, that we are doing 
something, but as we have seen time and time again, as long as we are 
not going to deal with the magnet of jobs, the efforts we have on the 
border--we can build the fences, people have ladders to go over them; 
or you can build fences and people will burrow and go underneath them--
as long as you have the powerful magnet of jobs, the efforts will fail.

We are going to have a vote on this issue, although I, for one, 
believe having strong border security is a key aspect of having 
comprehensive reform. That is why a number of us are going to support 
an alternative to the Graham amendment, an alternative that recognizes, 
No. 1, this is a complex problem--we are for border security and 
control, to the extent we can--but, No. 2, that we have a situation 
affecting millions of Americans in agriculture and that is, if we are 
going to have border control we are going to have to be able to provide 
agricultural workers. That is why I hope the Senate will consider an 
amendment which will have the border control provisions but also have 
what is called the AgJOBS provisions that will address what is the need 
in agricultural America.

Without it, as we have heard so eloquently from Senator Feinstein, as 
we heard from Senator Larry Craig, we are going to have devastation in 
major parts of our country.

If you are going to have border security, you are going to have to 
have some way for these workers to get in. The AgJOBS bill is the bill 
that has had over 60 Members of the Senate who have been supporters of 
that program. That seems to me to begin to make a good deal of sense.

Recognize, in dealing with this whole issue in a comprehensive way, 
the most vulnerable people inside our borders, those individuals who 
are here and are undocumented in so many instances are young people, 
brought here through no fault of their own because their parents 
brought them here when they were under 16 years of age, who are here 
for more than 5 years, serving 2 years in the military, graduating from 
the high schools of this country--it is called the DREAM Act.

I see my friend and the principal spokesperson and sponsor of that, 
the Senator from Illinois, Senator Durbin, on the floor. He speaks so 
well to this issue. When we have the amendment before the Senate, I 
will review some of the great, important successes of many young 
individuals who came here undocumented and have worked long and hard 
and have graduated from high school, which is no mean feat when you 
have more than a 50-percent dropout rate among the Hispanic community. 
The fact that these individuals are here, want to be part of the 
American dream, want to contribute to our Nation--the DREAM Act gives 
them the hope and opportunity for the future, which so many who have 
come here as


immigrants and as children, who want to be a part of the American 
dream, have felt.

This will be a proposal I hope we will have a chance to vote on. It 
will have the border security aspects included in the Graham proposal. 
It will recognize, if you are going to try to close the border, you are 
still going to have the great agribusiness in our country that is going 
to demand workers. We have a way of responding to that, a way about 
which Senator Feinstein and Senator Larry Craig have spoken to this 
body, a familiar path that makes a great deal of sense. That will be 
part of the proposal. Then we say to some of the most vulnerable 
individuals here, we recognize the challenges you are facing.

The proposal we are going to offer is a downpayment on a day where we 
might be able to come to a more comprehensive approach, which will be 
clearly in the interests of the Nation and in the interests of those 
who have come here and hopefully are looking forward to being a part of 
the American dream--pay their fines, pay their dues but be a part of 
the American dream.


I also mention I was somewhat troubled by the provisions of the 
Graham amendment, which effectively will say, for those who have 
overstayed their visa--and we know that is about 46 percent of all the 
undocumented. You can't deal with the problem of the undocumented here 
in the United States and just close the border because almost half of 
those who are undocumented here come from overstays. So let's not 
confuse the American people and beat our chests and say we have taken a 
strong security position by dealing with the border and not dealing 
with the undocumented.

We have 12.5 million undocumented here. We simply do not have enough 
detention centers in which to detain them.

We want to deal with the terrorists. We want to deal with the drug 
smugglers. We want to deal with the hardened criminals. Rather than 
focusing our attention on those goals, we would divert precious 
resources to what? Jailing women and children, taking the overstays and 
putting them into detention? We have an undocumented problem and what 
are we going to do? This is not the solution. This whole scenario 
sounds like another plan like we had in Iraq: Al-Qaida in Afghanistan 
was the organization who attacked the United States and what did we do? 
We went into Iraq, wasting our resources. This amendment is focused on 
roundups and mass detention, rather than target the real threats which 
are terrorism and crimes. This amendment on the Homeland Security 
Appropriations bill is not the answer.

It seems to me an alternative approach makes a great deal of sense. 
This is a modest program. It is a well-thought-out program. It is a 
tried and tested program. It is a program where they have had hearings 
and the Senate is familiar with it. Let's do what is necessary at the 
border. Let's do what is necessary to ensure that agriculture and those 
workers who have worked in the fields are going to have the respect and 
dignity they should have. That has bipartisan support. Let's insist we 
are going to include the DREAM Act, which has strong bipartisan support 
as well.

Let's move on and accept that concept. That includes the basic thrust 
of the amendment of the Senator from South Carolina. Then let's move 
ahead with the Homeland Security bill.

I know my friend from Connecticut wishes to address the Senate.