---
---

# RECOGNIZING MEMORIAL DAY
## `7008911e95679cb35dcce677083c2e68`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 8 June 2009`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I proudly rise to add my voice to the 
millions across the nation to honor Memorial Day and the bravery and 
sacrifices of our troops and veterans--especially the men and women who 
have paid the ultimate price for defending our freedom. Since the 
founding of our nation, the members of our armed forces have been 
charged with defending liberty, a job that they carry out with honor 
and distinction every day.

Without concern for their own safety, they have stormed the beaches 
of Normandy and Okinawa. They have protected the people of Seoul and 
held Saigon against the Tet offensive. And today, they valiantly serve 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. I know firsthand of these ongoing sacrifices. 
As a member of the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees, I 
participate daily in meetings and hearings where I am reminded of their 
tireless efforts, devotion and dedication to our nation. I was 
fortunate to witness their professionalism and extraordinary service on 
the front lines during a recent visit to Iraq and Afghanistan over the 
Memorial Day recess. Talking with soldiers from my home district was 
especially moving as it served to remind me of the uncommon courage and 
dedication that can come from small towns and local communities all 
across America. I want to say a special thank you to those soldiers I 
met with in Iraq and Afghanistan for their tireless service.

On Memorial Day, we pause to remember those who have made the 
ultimate sacrifice for the good of their country. We remember the 
courage and dedication of soldiers who served on a distant battlefield 
knowing that they may not make it back home. For this reason, I support 
several legislative proposals to honor our men and women in uniform, 
such as measures to establish a Select Committee on POW and MIA 
affairs, recognize the hard work of our NCOs and support the families 
of U.S. servicemembers.

Setting aside Memorial Day as a time for the nation to remember our 
fallen service members is crucial, but we must remember and honor our 
troops who put their lives on the line not once a year, but every 
single day, so that we may continue to enjoy the freedom and liberty 
that make our country great. For that, we are eternally indebted to 
them.
