# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `7016a1cba89c04ca4aaa43e0f4416de9`
`Mr. LEVIN — 14 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. A few other comments on some specific provisions. First, 
the conference report includes a provision that would restore the 
collective bargaining and appeals rights for Department of Defense 
employees who are included in the national security personnel system. I 
am pleased we were able to work out language on a bipartisan basis that 
enables the Department of Defense to move forward with personnel reform 
without denying its employees those well-established rights. The ball 
is now in the Department of Defense's court to prove it can implement a 
new performance management system in a manner that is transparent and 
fair and can gain the acceptance of the Department's civilian 
employees.

Second, the conference report includes a provision to improve and 
expand the special immigrant visa program and expand priority 2 
considerations under the U.S. refugee program to those Iraqis who have 
assisted our efforts in Iraq and similar consideration for certain 
highly vulnerable religious minorities in Iraq. I am pleased that the 
conference report includes this provision.

I make note of one measure that will not be included in the 
conference report, sadly, and that is the Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 
2007. This critical legislation would have broadened Federal 
jurisdiction to hate crimes motivated by gender, disability, sexual 
orientation, and gender identity. I am deeply disappointed that the 
House conferees were unwilling to include this provision in the 
conference report and unwilling to put it to a vote as part of the 
conference report in the House of Representatives. This provision has 
my full backing; 60 of us voted essentially for this bill in a vote 
before the Senate. I hope our colleagues will support it when we bring 
it up for a vote at a future time.

Finally, I congratulate Senator McCain on his first conference report 
as ranking member of the committee. I thank my dear friend Senator 
Warner for continuing to be such a great partner, when Senator McCain 
was understandably unavailable. This bill could not have happened 
without Senator McCain and without Senator Warner. I also take my hat 
off to Ike Skelton who chaired our conference. His even temper and 
plain decency helped smooth a number of rough edges. I will include at 
the end of my comments a list of the staff of the Armed Services 
Committee who worked so tremendously hard to bring this annual bill to 
the point where we now, hopefully, will see its adoption, see the 
benefits for our troops and their families and our Nation.

I also want to add to the names of those who worked so hard on the 
Wounded Warrior legislation Senator Patty Murray of Washington. She has 
been a leader in this effort and I pay special tribute to her, along 
with other Members who have worked so hard on the Wounded Warrior 
legislation.

The conference report includes improvements in compensation and 
quality of life for the men and women in uniform, in addition to the 
3.5 percent pay raise for uniformed personnel, including: Authorizing 
payment of combat related special compensation to servicemembers 
medically retired for a combat related disability. Payment is equal to 
the amount of retired pay forfeited because of the prohibition on 
concurrent receipt of military retired pay and VA disability 
compensation; reducing below age 60 the age at which a member of a 
reserve component may draw retirement pay by 3 months for every 
aggregate 90 days' service on duty under certain mobilization 
authorities; enhancing reserve education assistance benefits, including 
authorizing servicemembers eligible for education benefits under the 
Reserve Education Assistance Program to use those benefits for 10 years 
after separation, allowing separated servicemembers to regain 
eligibility by rejoining a reserve component; and authorizing 
eligibility for increased benefits by aggregating 3 years of qualifying 
service or more; and extending the prohibition on an increase in 
TRICARE fees for retirees and reservists and increasing funds for the 
Defense Health Program; requiring the Secretary of Defense to establish 
a Family Readiness Council and develop a comprehensive policy and plans 
to improve the support for and coordination of family readiness 
programs; and amending the Immigration and Nationality Act to allow 
certain spouses and children of servicemembers residing under orders in 
foreign countries to treat their time accompanying the servicemember as 
residence in the United States for the purpose of satisfying 
citizenship requirements.

The Walter Reed Hospital investigations made clear that we need to 
improve the care we provide to our veterans, and especially to our 
wounded warriors. Our Nation has a moral obligation to provide quality 
health care to the men and women who put on our Nation's uniform and 
are wounded or injured fighting our Nation's wars. This obligation 
extends from the point of injury, through evacuation from the 
battlefield, to first-class medical facilities in the United States, 
and ends only when the wounds are healed. When wounds may continue to 
impact a veteran for a lifetime, we have an obligation to continue to 
provide quality care.

In an effort to better meet this obligation, the conference report 
includes portions of the Senate and House passed legislation to improve 
services for wounded warriors. This legislation reflects close 
collaboration between the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' 
Affairs. Some of the Conference Report's provisions would: Require the 
DOD and VA to jointly develop a comprehensive policy on improvements to 
care, management, and transition of recovering servicemembers in an 
outpatient status; expand treatment and research for traumatic brain 
injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder, and traumatic eye injuries; 
guarantee combat veterans mental health evaluations within 30 days of 
their request; require the DOD to use the VA Schedule for Rating 
Disabilities in determining servicemember disabilities; increase from 2 
to 5 years the period during which recently separated combat veterans 
may seek care from the VA; require the DOD to use the VA presumption of 
sound condition in establishing eligibility of servicemembers for 
disability retirement; and increase leave under the Family Medical 
Leave Act for caregivers of seriously injured servicemembers from 12 to 
26 weeks.

The conference report will ensure that our service men and women are 
provided with the equipment, training, technology, and authorities they 
need to prevail in combat, particularly in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
Specifically, the conference report: Added over $16 billion for all 
known Service and Special Operations Command requirements for mine-
resistant ambush protected, MRAP, vehicles that improve protection for 
our troops exposed to the improvised explosive device, IED, threat in 
Iraq and Afghanistan; funded over $4 billion for the Joint Improvised 
Explosive Device Defeat Office, JIEDDO, and directed JIEDDO to invest 
at least $50.0 million in blast injury research and over $150.0 million 
for the procurement of IED jammers for the Army; and authorized fiscal 
year 2008 end strengths for the Army and Marine Corps of 525,400 and 
189,000, respectively, which is an increase of 13,000 for


the Army and 9,000 for the Marine Corps.

The conference report also seeks to make sure tomorrow's service men 
and women are provided with the equipment and technology they need to 
prevail in future operations. To this end, the conference report 
promotes the transformation of the Armed Forces to meet the threats of 
the 21st century, including: Requiring the Secretary of Defense to 
obligate sufficient annual amounts to develop and procure a competitive 
propulsion system for the Joint Strike Fighter, JSF, program in order 
to conduct a competitive propulsion source selection, and adding $196.9 
million to the Joint Strike Fighter program in fiscal year 2008 for 
this effort; authorizing construction for one Army High Speed Vessel 
and five Navy Battle Force warships, including the first ship of the 
CVN-21 aircraft carrier class; providing multiyear procurement 
authority for Virginia class submarines, and adding $588 million in 
advance procurement funding to support buying an additional submarine 
in 2010; adding $300 million in advance procurement funding for 3 T-AKE 
class supply ships, and $50 million in advance procurement for a tenth 
LPD-17 class amphibious ship; adding $2.28 billion for procurement of 8 
additional C-17 Globemaster strategic lift aircraft; and adding $51 
million to the budget request to provide increased space situational 
awareness capabilities to address concerns raised as a result of the 
recent Chinese kinetic anti-satellite weapons test.

Devoting modest resources and effort to sound management practices 
ensures that our defense dollars are well spent. The conferees included 
several provisions designed to enhance the management of the DOD. 
Specifically, these provisions would: Provide that the Deputy Secretary 
of Defense is the Chief Management Officer of the DOD, and establish a 
full-time position of Deputy Chief Management Officer, with the rank of 
Under Secretary, to ensure continuous top-level attention to the 
management problems of the Department; strengthen oversight of 
reconstruction activities in Afghanistan by establishing a Special 
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, modeled after the 
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction; repeal the authority 
of the DOD to establish a new labor relations system and restore 
collective bargaining and appeals rights; and allow the Department to 
continue efforts to develop and implement a new pay for performance 
system, but only if the system is implemented in a manner that is 
consistent with existing labor relations requirements; tighten the 
rules for competition between Federal employees and private 
contractors, to ensure that Federal employees are given fair 
consideration for work to be performed for the Department of Defense.


The conferees also included the Acquisition Improvement and 
Accountability Act of 2007 in the conference report. These provisions 
would improve the management and oversight of the DOD acquisition 
programs, and, specifically, would: Require the private security 
contractors operating on the battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan to 
comply with DOD regulations and rules on the use of force, as well as 
orders and directives from combatant commanders regarding force 
protection, security, health, safety, and interaction with local 
nationals; establish a Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan to study and investigate Federal agency contracting for 
reconstruction, logistics support, and security functions in those 
countries, and make recommendations as to how contracting processes 
could be improved in the future; establish a defense acquisition 
workforce development fund to provide a minimum of $300 million in 
fiscal year 2008, and increasing amounts thereafter, to ensure that the 
DOD has the people and the skills needed to effectively manage the 
DOD's contracts; strengthen statutory protections for contractor 
employees who blow the whistle on waste, fraud and abuse on DOD 
contracts by providing, for the first time, a private right of action 
in Federal court for contractor employees who are subject to reprisal 
for their efforts to protect the taxpayers' interests; and tighten the 
rules for DOD acquisition of major weapon systems and subsystems, 
components and spare parts to reduce the risk of contract overpricing, 
cost overruns, and failure to meet contract schedules and performance 
requirements.

The conference report also includes a provision that would build new 
flexibility into specialty metals requirements to ensure that the DOD 
can acquire the weapon systems needed by our men and women in uniform. 
In particular, the provision contains four new exceptions to the 
specialty metals requirements: a new exemption for commercial, off-the-
shelf items; a new de minimis exception for items that contain 
relatively small amounts, less than 2 percent by weight, of non-
compliant material; a new national security exception for items that 
are needed by our warfighters; and a new ''market basket'' exception 
for dual-use items. The exceptions for commercial, off-the-shelf items 
and de minimis amounts of non-compliant material are particularly 
important, because they apply to purchases by the Department and by 
defense contractors and subcontractors at any tier, regardless of 
whether the items acquired are systems, subsystems, assemblies, 
subassemblies, or components. Because commercial items such as engines 
and generators are built almost exclusively out of commercial, off-the-
shelf components, and any military-unique components are likely to 
constitute less than 2 percent of the specialty metals included in the 
final product, they too can now be purchased by DOD and its contractors 
without the cumbersome need for a waiver.

In addition, the provision would eliminate the Anti-Deficiency Act as 
an enforcement mechanism for specialty metals requirements, ensuring 
that noncompliance can now be treated as a routine contract violation, 
subject to appropriate contractual penalties, and not as a potential 
criminal offense that precludes the acceptance of a product. Taken 
together, these changes should reduce the inordinate amount of time and 
effort that the Department has had to spend over the last 2 years 
trying to enforce compliance down to the component level on major 
weapon systems.

The conference report also included a number of other noteworthy 
provisions, including: Requiring a report on Pakistan's efforts to 
eliminate safe havens for violent extremists on its territory and to 
prevent cross border incursions by those extremists into Afghanistan; 
renewing authority for the Special Operations Command to provide 
support to foreign forces, groups or individuals who are supporting or 
facilitating ongoing military operations by U.S. special operations 
forces; and expanding the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa program and 
creating a priority 2 refugee category for those Iraqis who have 
provided assistance to the United States and for certain highly 
vulnerable Iraqi religious minorities.

In the area of nonproliferation and cooperative threat reduction, the 
conference report: authorized an increase of $230 million to the amount 
requested for the Department of Energy nonproliferation programs; 
authorized an increase of $80 million for the DOD's Cooperative Threat 
Reduction, CTR, Program; and expanded the CTR program to countries 
outside of the former Soviet Union and adopted provisions that would 
repeal all of the required annual certifications.

The conference report also authorized $9.8 billion for ballistic 
missile defense, a net reduction of $597 million below the budget 
request. The conference continued to focus on effective near term 
capabilities against existing short and medium range threats by 
authorizing an additional $120 million for such systems. Further, the 
conferees authorized provisions to improve the budgeting, acquisition, 
and oversight of missile defense programs, and to limit the use of 
funds for construction and deployment activities for the proposed 
European missile defense deployment until the governments of Poland and 
the Czech Republic give final approval of any bilateral deployment 
agreements negotiated with the United States, and Congress receives an 
independent assessment of options for missile defense in Europe.

I ask unanimous consent to print in the Record the list of staff 
members of the Armed Services Committee to which I earlier referred.