---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `702e2bd9f330c6a96c5f5bd45e1f6290`
`Ms. PELOSI — 2 May 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I want 
to acknowledge the exceptional leadership of Chairman Obey, Chairman 
Murtha and Chairman Skelton in putting together this important piece of 
legislation.

Mr. Speaker, Congress passed this bill, and yesterday we sent it to 
the President of the United States. We did so with great pride, because 
it is a bill that supports our troops, honors our promises to our 
veterans, holds the Iraqi government accountable and winds down this 
war. It is a bill that honors the sacrifice of our men and women in 
uniform. Thank you, Chairmen Obey, Murtha and Skelton.

The President had an historic opportunity. He had an opportunity to 
take yes for an answer, because the bill contained what the President 
had proposed. The President proposed benchmarks. His very own 
benchmarks were contained in this bill. The Department of Defense has 
guidelines for readiness for our troops, for their training, their 
equipment and the time they can spend at home and overseas. They are in 
the bill, even with a waiver for the President, giving the President 
more latitude. The President said no. The President said no.



I had hoped that the President would see the light, instead of 
turning a tin ear to the wishes of the American people and a blind eye 
to what is happening on the ground in Iraq.

The President, in signing the veto, is reporting that progress is 
being made in Iraq. Well, I don't know what his definition of 
''progress'' is, but, sadly, April was the deadliest month this year, 
with over 100 of our troops killed there.

The President, in his statement on vetoing the bill, said that he 
vetoes the bill because, in his words, ''It makes no sense to tell the 
enemy when you start to plan withdrawing.''

In criticizing these timelines, of course, the President is wrong. 
But when he was a candidate for President, it made sense to him to say 
to President Clinton, ''I think it's also important for the President 
to lay out a timetable as to how long our troops will be involved and 
when they will be withdrawn.'' This is candidate Bush on the war in 
Kosovo, where we did not lose one single American soldier; this from a 
President whose initiative has lost over 3,000 Americans and countless, 
countless, countless Iraqis.

Bipartisan congressional majorities approved of using timelines for 
redeployment to instill urgency into benchmarks that have already again 
been endorsed by the President and the Iraqi leaders. They have agreed 
to this, except they reject them in this bill.

A wide range of people have noted the value of timelines in 
persuading the Iraqis to make the political compromises needed to end 
the violence, including Secretary of Defense Gates, who said, ''The 
strong feelings expressed in the Congress about the timetable probably 
have had a positive impact in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that 
this is not an open-ended commitment.''

The Congress will not support an open-ended commitment to a war 
without end. He wants a blank check. The Congress will not give it to 
him.

Next the President said that Congress is substituting our judgment 
for the judgments of commanders in the field 6,000 miles away. Wrong 
again, Mr. President. We are substituting our judgment for your 
judgment 16 blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue in the White House. We are 
substituting the judgment of this Congress for your failed judgment.

The American people have lost faith in the President's conduct of the 
war. They have said that they want accountability and a new direction. 
This bill gives them both.

Next the President claimed, and Mr. Obey again referenced this, that 
this bill is loaded with non-emergency spending. Well, it may be a non-
emergency to the President, but it certainly is an emergency to the 
people affected. Once again, the President is wrong.

The needs of the survivors of Hurricane Katrina think it is an 
emergency, and so does any person of conscience in our country who 
cares about the victims of Katrina. That millions of children are about 
to lose their health insurance is an emergency for them and for our 
country. America's farmers, devastated by natural disasters, think it 
is an emergency.

These situations remain emergencies because the President and the 
last Congress, the Republican Congress, refused to act. So now we must. 
So they have made it even more of an emergency.

Today, the President faces consequences of his own making. This is 
the seventh supplemental for the war in Iraq. Certainly somebody was 
planning something at the White House and could have put over the years 
the funding necessary for this war into the budget. Instead, the 
President did not do that. I don't know why. Maybe they didn't want the 
American people to see the real cost of this war in dollars. Certainly 
we know the price that we have paid more seriously in lives, in health, 
in reputation, in the readiness of our military and in probably $2 
trillion now for this war.

The President claims that this legislation infringes upon the powers 
vested in the President by the Constitution. The President is wrong. 
Congress is exercising its right as a coequal branch of government to 
work cooperatively with the President to end this war.

By voting ''yes'' to override, Congress sends a strong message:

To support our troops. They have done everything that has been asked 
of them, and excellently. They deserve better.

To rebuild our military, which has been seriously strained by this 
war in Iraq.

To honor our commitment to our veterans, our heroes.

And to demand accountability.

With passage of this bill, we then can refocus our energy on the 
efforts against terrorism by bringing the war in Iraq to an end, 
bringing this war in Iraq to an end.

The President said there are real enemies out there. Yes, we know 
that, Mr. President, and we are prepared to make that fight. We will do 
whatever is necessary to protect the American people.

The war on terrorism was in Afghanistan. We took our fullest 
attention from Afghanistan to go into Iraq, and now Iraq is a magnet 
for terrorists. The war in Iraq has made matters worse in the war on 
terrorism.

What we have to do is work together, Democrats and Republicans, with 
the President of the United States, to bring stability to that region.

Now into the fifth year of a failed policy, this administration 
should get a clue. It is not working. This is the fourth surge they 
have proposed. When they proposed it in January, they said in 60 to 90 
days we will know. It is 120 days, and now they are saying September. 
And then they say maybe by the end of the year. So what is this? We 
will be into another whole year of this war, far longer than World War 
II.

Nobody who serves in this body, who takes the oath of office to 
protect and defend the Constitution, needs anybody to tell them, 
whether you are a Democrat or Republican, what our responsibility is to 
protect the American people. Nobody needs a reminder of what the threat 
of terrorism is to our country. But we do need to work together to keep 
our focus on where the war on terror really is. If we clear up this 
matter, bring this war to an end in Iraq, we can give the war on terror 
our fullest attention.

Let us stop this war without end. I urge a ''yes'' vote.