# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF 2ND LIEUTENANT MARK J. DAILY
## `70332875d1fbe392b6c890066dbd83cb`
`Mr. CAMPBELL of California — 5 March 2007`

---


Mr. CAMPBELL of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
life of 2nd Lieutenant Mark J. Daily--an honorable citizen and hero in 
our nation's War on Terrorism.

Lieutenant Daily grew up in Irvine, California, and graduated from 
Woodbridge High School in 2001. He was known among family and friends 
as having an amazing breadth of knowledge, a strong desire to serve, 
and a wonderful sense of humor.

In 2005, Lieutenant Daily graduated from the University of California 
at Los Angeles as a Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) cadet with 
a bachelor's degree in political science. His ability and work ethic 
was further exemplified that year when he was named as both the ROTC 
outstanding cadet and a Distinguished Military Graduate, the highest 
honor one can receive in the ROTC.

As a member of the United States Army's 4th Brigade Combat Team, he 
was stationed in Iraq's northern city of Mosul. Tragically, on January 
15, 2007, Lieutenant Daily made the ultimate sacrifice when he was 
killed conducting operations in the city.

Lieutenant Daily is survived by his wife, Snejana; his parents, John 
and Linda; his sisters, Christine and Nicole; and his brother, Eric. He 
valued their love, and they miss him terribly now. On his webpage, 
Lieutenant Daily listed his interests as ''family, peace, and 
progress.'' And it is in the value that he placed on these three things 
that we see the quality of his character.

The night before he left for Iraq, Lieutenant Daily wrote an online 
weblog to friends and family entitled ''Why I Joined.'' In the post, he 
articulately stated the importance of fostering a stable democratic 
government in Iraq, and the harsh consequences of failure. He called 
upon all Americans to challenge themselves, to not just enjoy the 
blessings of liberty, but to act upon them.

In the wake of his death, Lieutenant Daily's web log was widely 
distributed in newspapers and on the internet. These words have served 
as an inspiration and encouragement to many. It is clear he felt 
passionately about what he was doing and why he was doing it. What 
better way to remember his heart for service and commitment to progress 
than by reflecting on his own words. Mr. Speaker, the following web log 
entry was posted on his website on October 29, 2006:
















Why I Joined




 This question has been asked of me so many times in so many 


 different contexts




 that I thought it would be best if I wrote my reasons for 


 joining the Army on my page for all to see. First, the more 


 accurate question is why I volunteered to go to Iraq. After 


 all, I joined the Army a week after we declared war on 


 Saddam's government with the intention of going to Iraq. Now, 


 after years of training and preparation, I am finally here.



 Much has changed in the last three years. The criminal 


 Ba'ath regime has been replaced by an insurgency fueled by 


 Iraq's neighbors who hope to partition Iraq for their own 


 ends. This is coupled with the ever present transnational 


 militant Islamist movement which has seized upon Iraq as the 


 greatest way to kill Americans, along with anyone else they 


 happen to be standing near. What was once a paralyzed state 


 of fear is now the staging ground for one of the largest 


 transformations of power and ideology the Middle East has 


 experienced since the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. Thanks 


 to Iran, Syria, and other enlightened local actors, this 


 transformation will be plagued by interregional hatred and 


 genocide. And I am now in the center of this.



 Is this why I joined?



 Yes. Much has been said about America's intentions in 


 overthrowing Saddam Hussein and seeking to establish a new 


 state based upon political representation and individual 


 rights. Many have framed the paradigm through which they view 


 the conflict around one-word explanations such as ''oil'' or 


 ''terrorism,'' favoring the one which best serves their 


 political persuasion. I did the same thing, and anyone who 


 knew me before I joined knows that I am quite aware and at 


 times sympathetic to the arguments against the war in Iraq. 


 If you think the only way a person could bring themselves to 


 volunteer for this war is through sheer desperation or blind 


 obedience then consider me the exception (though there are 


 countless like me).



 I joined the fight because it occurred to me that many 


 modern day ''humanists'' who claim to possess a genuine 


 concern for human beings throughout the world are in fact 


 quite content to allow their fellow ''global citizens'' to 


 suffer under the most hideous state apparatuses and 


 conditions. Their excuses used to be my excuses. When asked 


 why we shouldn't confront the Ba'ath party, the Taliban or 


 the various other tyrannies throughout this world, my answers 


 would allude to vague notions of cultural tolerance (forcing 


 women to wear a veil and stay indoors is such a quaint 


 cultural tradition), the sanctity of national sovereignty 


 (how eager we internationalists are to throw up borders to 


 defend dictatorships!) or even a creeping suspicion of 


 America's intentions. When all else failed, I would retreat 


 to my fragile moral ecosystem that years of living in peace 


 and liberty had provided me. I would write off war because 


 civilian casualties were guaranteed, or temporary alliances 


 with illiberal forces would be made, or tank fuel was toxic 


 for the environment. My fellow ''humanists'' and I would 


 relish contently in our self righteous declaration of 


 opposition against all military campaigns against 


 dictatorships, congratulating one another for refusing to 


 taint that aforementioned fragile moral ecosystem that many 


 still cradle with all the revolutionary tenacity of the 


 members of Rage against the Machine and Green Day. Others 


 would point to America's historical support of Saddam 


 Hussein, citing it as hypocritical that we would now vilify 


 him as a thug and a tyrant. Upon explaining that we did so to 


 ward off the fiercely Islamist Iran, which was correctly 


 identified as the greater threat at the time, eyes are rolled 


 and hypocrisy is declared. Forgetting that America sided with 


 Stalin to defeat Hitler, who was promptly confronted once the 


 Nazis were destroyed, America's initial engagement with 


 Saddam and other regional actors is identified as the 


 ultimate argument against America's moral crusade.



 And maybe it is. Maybe the reality of politics makes all 


 political action inherently crude and immoral. Or maybe it is 


 these adventures in philosophical masturbation that prevent 


 people from ever taking any kind of effective action against 


 men like Saddam Hussein. One thing is for certain, as 


 disagreeable or as confusing as my decision to enter the fray 


 may be, consider what peace vigils against genocide have 


 accomplished lately. Consider that there are 19 year old 


 soldiers from the Midwest who have never touched a college 


 campus or a protest who have done more to uphold the 


 universal legitimacy of representative government and 


 individual rights by placing themselves between Iraqi voting 


 lines and homicidal religious fanatics. Often times it is 


 less about how clean your actions are and more about how 


 pure your intentions are.



 So that is why I joined. In the time it took for you to 


 read this explanation, innocent people your age have suffered 


 under the crushing misery of tyranny. Every tool of 


 philosophical advancement and communication that we use to 


 develop our opinions about this war are denied to countless 


 human beings on this planet, many of whom live under the 


 regimes that have, in my opinion, been legitimately targeted 


 for destruction. Some have allowed their resentment of the 


 President to stir silent applause for setbacks in Iraq. 


 Others have ironically decried the war because it has tied up 


 our forces and prevented them from confronting criminal 


 regimes in Sudan, Uganda, and elsewhere.



 I simply decided that the time for candid discussions of 


 the oppressed was over, and I joined.



 In digesting this posting, please remember that America's 


 commitment to overthrow Saddam Hussein and his sons existed 


 before the current administration and would exist into our 


 future children's lives had we not acted. Please remember 


 that the problems that plague Iraq today were set in motion 


 centuries ago and were up until now held back by the most 


 cruel of cages. Don't forget that human beings have a 


 responsibility to one another and that Americans will always 


 have a responsibility to the oppressed. Don't overlook the 


 obvious reasons to disagree with the war but don't cheapen 


 the moral aspects either. Assisting a formerly oppressed 


 population in converting their torn society into a plural, 


 democratic one is dangerous and difficult business, 


 especially when being attacked and sabotaged from literally 


 every direction. So if you have anything to say to me at the 


 end of this reading, let it at least include ''Good Luck.''--


 Lt. Mark J. Daily, United States Army.
