---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `703ff3e884aab7abd0c3223be01bbaa1`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, as has been said many times this evening and for the 
last days and weeks and months, indeed for years, we have Americans in 
harm's way in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in the Horn of Africa. Around the 
world, these Americans need our help, and they deserve our help.

It has been over 3 months since the President sent to us his request 
for emergency supplemental funding for our troops. It is time for us to 
stop playing politics and step up and do our part. We need to 
appropriate all of the funds our troops need, and we need to do it now.

The distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee said this 
afternoon that our young men and women are entitled to have the funding 
that they need. Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, this bill does not give 
them the funding that they need. It has been made very clear that the 
President will veto this legislation, and I believe that he should. He 
showed us that he would veto legislation that shackled our generals and 
made it impossible for our troops to do the job. This piecemeal 
approach, the 60-day funding, is unacceptable.

We have men and women not only in harm's way, but men and women here 
who are already starting to feel the pain of the restriction in funds. 
Secretary Gates said they are shifting funds now. It is not fair for 
our young men and women to serve overseas and come back here and not 
have what they need even here in the States. We need to move forward on 
legislation that genuinely funds the troops and allows us a chance for 
success.

I would like to close with just a couple of comments. General 
Petraeus said to his troops when he took over that the way there was 
going to be hard, but hard was not hopeless. As I said on this floor 
weeks ago, this legislation makes hard hopeless. In fact, this 
legislation is hopeless because it will not become law. We need to step 
up and take care of these troops.