# CELEBRATING 90 YEARS OF UNITED STATES-POLISH DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
## `704252b8b84771f53914c797f0aef525`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA â€” 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I am in strong support of House Resolution 266, which 
celebrates 90 years of diplomatic relations between the United States 
and Poland. I wish to thank my good friend, the distinguished gentleman 
from the State of Illinois (Mr. Lipinski) for his authorship and 
introduction of this bill that enables the House to join the Senate in 
marking this significant anniversary and reaffirming our friendship 
with an important ally.

It is remarkable to think that it has been only 20 years since Poland 
began to emerge from a period marked by war, Communist rule and 
occupation. On June 4, 1989, the good people of Poland voted in semi-
democratic parliamentary elections. They resulted in a landslide 
victory for opposition candidates fielded by the Solidarity trade union 
over the ruling Communists. The new government moved swiftly to re-
establish democratic practices and a free market economy.

This election marked a turning point in the region, as other Soviet 
satellite states in Central and Eastern Europe regained their freedom 
by the end of 1989. Poland undertook internal reforms that enabled its 
rapid integration into the Euro-Atlantic community. Indeed, 2009 marks 
the fifth anniversary of Poland's membership with the European Union 
and the 10th anniversary of its accession to NATO. Poland has since 
been playing an active role in the international community, helping to 
secure peace and stability through its contributions to civilian and 
military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.

In addition, Poland has been a strong ally of the United States. This 
year we are marking 90 years of diplomatic relations, with the United 
States being the first country to recognize the newly independent 
Second Polish Republic in January 1919. This was particularly fitting 
given the key role played by President Woodrow Wilson in demanding that 
an independent Poland be included in the Treaty of Versailles.

Since that time, there has continued to be a close friendship between 
our two peoples and countries. The estimated 10 million of our fellow 
Polish Americans who comprise 3 percent of the U.S. population have 
made considerable contributions to the cultural, economic, social, and 
political fabric of our great Nation. I welcome the planned visit by 
Vice President Biden to Poland later this month, as it provides an 
excellent opportunity to affirm our strong bilateral relationship.

I strongly support this resolution and urge my colleagues to do the 
same.

I reserve the balance of my time.