---
---

# TAKING CARE OF AMERICA'S VETERANS
## `70560c152d8b4870adf49111f7e8203d`
`Ms. KAPTUR — 17 October 2007`

---


Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, tonight I would like to discuss briefly 
another case of one of our very valiant soldiers who has returned to 
Ohio and numbers himself among the walking wounded.

My question to the President of the United States, my question to 
Members of this Congress, is what is wrong with the government of this 
country when we cannot move the bill we passed in this House that 
increased veterans spending by 18 percent, get it through the other 
body and to the President of the United States to sign? What is wrong 
with the way we govern that the President of the United States cannot 
call the leader of the other body and say, ''Move the bill so we can 
take care of the over 100,000 wounded that are coming home to us''?

The soldier I would like to talk about is only one of many that I met 
last Sunday who returned home from Iraq and is not being treated. This 
is a soldier who saw duty as a member of the 983rd Army Engineering 
Battalion, Combat, Heavy Duty, in Iraq, saw conflict, came home 
wounded, and is not getting treatment.

Here is what happened. There was an accident involving a truck and 
IEDs over there in Iraq and this particular soldier had a severe spinal 
cord injury and injuries to his head. In addition to that, since 
returning home, has had grand mal seizures, epileptic seizures. He 
never had that before he went to Iraq.

The military said, ''There is something wrong with him. We will give 
him a 60 percent disability. But we won't give him 100 percent 
disability, because maybe he got those injuries from playing football 
in high school.'' Football in high school? He never had seizures until 
he went to Iraq and got injured.

So the military says, ''Well, we will try to fix your neck.'' He goes 
through an operation in a hospital several hours away. It is very 
difficult for him to return there, because he doesn't have regular 
employment at this time and he is dealing with PTSD on top of 
everything else.

Now, why doesn't the government of the United States make it easy for 
wounded veterans, and we are not talking about 25 million people, we 
are talking about somewhere between 100,000 and 150,000 Americans to 
get cared for closest to home? Why can't we do that? Why can't the 
President of the United States, he is Commander-in-Chief of our Armed 
Forces, and this Congress, work together in the national interest to 
take care of all the soldiers that are coming home to us wounded?

In that particular unit that I visited on Sunday, there are many, 
many, many, many servicemembers who have PTSD. Why are they being asked 
to go 2/1/2/ hours away from home, spend an entire day waiting in line 
at a hospital, and then maybe coming back home again and wasting a day 
when they don't get paid at work, if they have a job? Why can't we take 
care of them close to home? We are not talking about 25 million people. 
We are talking about a very discrete set of Americans who put their 
lives on the line for us, and yet we can't find a way to care for them?

I hope the President of the United States has somebody listening to 
this tonight, because as Commander-in-Chief, it would be very easy to 
call over to that other body and to move our Department of Veterans 
Affairs bill out of this Congress, up Pennsylvania Avenue, get it 
signed, and with dispatch get the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs and say, ''Work with the Congress. Work with the 
individuals who are here. Let's get these ill veterans to the care they 
need.''

Why do we make it so hard? Why do we put the burden on the veteran? I 
had one veteran come up to me and say, ''Congresswoman, my knee is all 
messed up. I had an accident over there. Why did the DOD discharge me 
before fixing my knee?'' Now he has got to take weeks and weeks off of 
work, which he is unwilling to do, to try and go get an operation at a 
hospital very far from where he lives, and he doesn't have a support 
system in place.

Why would we do that? Why would the DOD not find a way to take a 
valorous veteran who is part of a combat engineering battalion and take 
care of him? Why do we let him fall between the cracks between the DOD 
and the VA? It is our responsibilities and the President's 
responsibility to care for these veterans, and we had best get at it.
