# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `706655ead529b289a09b7dc82aa03fe7`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about a 
critical issue regarding Iraq and Afghanistan veterans' health care 
needs. America's Armed Forces are sustaining attacks by rocket-
propelled grenades, improvised explosive devices, and land mines almost 
daily in Iraq and Afghanistan. These injured soldiers require 
specialized care from providers experienced in treating their unique 
health challenges. These blast injuries result from the complex 
pressure waves generated by an explosion. Air-filled organs such as the 
ear, lung, and other organs surrounded by fluid-filled cavities such as 
the brain and spinal cord are especially susceptible.

Earlier this year, I visited with a soldier named Mack Richards who 
sustained blast wounds to his wrist and ankle in Iraq, as well as 
traumatic brain injury, or TBI. This soldier recounted to me his 
difficulty and frustration in receiving treatment for his brain injury. 
He was left at an army base far from home for months before he was sent 
back to his family and finally received therapy from our local 
rehabilitation facility.

Congress has been assured that veterans with brain and other complex 
injuries are able to access the specialized treatment they need. 
However, Mack's story is not unique, and I think the time has come to 
question what role the underutilized capacity in civilian rehab can 
play. That is not to devalue VA efforts and the great facilities the VA 
has to offer, but to ask how civilian providers can complement VA 
facilities and improve the care afforded our veterans returning from 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

The large numbers of traumatic brain injury survivors returning home 
from war highlights the need to leverage all of the resources available 
to us for the successful treatment and rehabilitation of our injured 
troops. Tapping into existing civilian TBI research and treatment 
capacity can help improve outcomes and supplement the care systems 
being developed at both the Department of Defense and the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.

This is an issue which I know can stir up sensitivities given the 
diversity of our veteran population. I want to make it clear that I am 
fully committed, as are many of my colleagues, to ensuring the VA has 
the resources and strength to offer sustainable and top quality care 
for every American veteran. That said, the public and civilian sectors 
must come together to meet the needs of our newest generation of 
wounded warriors. This is not unprecedented. In the past, the 
Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs have 
contracted with civilian clinicians and providers to make up the TBI 
continuum of care.

The VA has shown tremendous effort in addressing the needs of our 
returning troops, given the enormous challenges we face. However, I 
believe the large volume of returning veterans with increasingly 
complex health care needs require an increasingly dynamic approach to 
better serve those who have given so much for our country. The need for 
timely treatment and immediate rehabilitation expertise and capacity 
requires additional resources and flexibility for the VA to form 
partnerships to ensure top notch care for


our service personnel. And, if this care can be provided closer to 
veterans' community and family support networks, then it is a win-win 
as families can be kept together and servicemembers can more easily 
transition back into their daily routines.

I have included language in this bill requesting the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to report to Congress on the conditions and criteria 
used for contracting with civilian rehabilitation providers, and 
outreach efforts being conducted to inform veterans and those who 
advocate on their behalf about such treatment options. I look forward 
to working with the VA and my colleagues to make sure our veterans have 
access to the care their sacrifices and personal injuries require.
