# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `7066702e4f24864e481ad76a4468a659`
`Ms. CLARKE â€” 22 September 2008`

---


Ms. CLARKE. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus, 
our chairman, Ms. Carolyn Kilpatrick, and the 42 other members, it's my 
privilege to come and discuss the topic of the hour--I believe the 
topic of the century--and that is the collapse of our financial service 
sector and the proposed bailout that we've all heard of this past 
weekend.

You know, it wasn't that long ago that I heard a gentleman who was 
serving as Secretary of State to the United States saying to us, when 
we launched into Iraq and we knew that there was going to be a whole 
lot of trouble and it was going to be an expensive venture, that if we 
went in there and we broke it, we own it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 
another example of breaking it, now owning it.

You know, the Bush administration and the folks on the other side of 
the aisle turned a blind eye and a deaf ear in the name of so-called 
''free markets''--which, in fact, is not free and all Americans are 
learning today it's costing us $700 billion; very, very expensive 
lesson. Because when the call for regulation in this sector went on 
deaf ears and more deregulation was the mantra, and keeping the free 
market free led to this feeding frenzy that now has all of us pulling 
out our hair wondering how we got here. Well, I can tell you that in 
communities like mine, we got here because people were given bad loan 
products, they were given subprime loans. There was no investigation, 
due diligence done to make sure that individuals could, indeed, 
understand the terms and conditions in which they were being subjected. 
And we turned a blind eye to that. We felt that the crisis in the 
subprime market was only for those people, and it wouldn't impact on 
the overall society. So we said, well, poor


them, and they should have known better. Where are the folks screaming 
''they should have known better'' now? Where are they now that the so-
called folks in the know who should have known better allowed their 
corporate interests and corporate greed to supercede their obligation 
to our Nation, to our overall economy, to our well-being, where are 
they today? Well, they're meeting behind closed doors.

There are meetings taking place all over the place this evening, 
folks trying to scramble here and there to come up with the best deal 
for ''the bailout.'' Well, I can tell you that in just about all of the 
offices of the members of the Congressional Black Caucus the phones are 
ringing off the hook. They're ringing off the hook for people who have 
had to file bankruptcy because they had no health care insurance and 
someone got ill in the family and they had to use everything they owned 
to pay off health care costs that have skyrocketed and they've had to 
refinance and refinance and refinance their homes over and over again 
to get the money needed to help in a health care crisis. And we're 
getting phone calls from people who got their economic stimulus rebate 
only to face skyrocketing oil costs and gasoline costs and costs of 
living just going up while their wages have stayed stagnant. And we're 
getting calls from individuals who, due to lack of real management in 
these financial firms, are mid, low-level employees that are now 
unemployed and who also bought into the ''American dream'' and their 
mortgages are coming due and they don't know where their next check 
will come from.

Well, we are in an economic crisis, and I think we need to not have 
amnesia at this time. We need to remember where all of our financial 
woes have come from. They've come from an administration and a party 
that the free market is truly free, that the need for regulation is 
something that is not a part of being Americans when we regulate every 
other part of our lives and we regulate just about everything else we 
do except for the feeding frenzy and the greed that is taking place in 
this Nation over the past 12 years.

It's unfortunate that we've arrived at this moment in time, and it's 
a very expensive wake-up call for all of us. I understand that folks 
are moving very aggressively to address the financial crisis, as quoted 
by our speaker, Nancy Pelosi, ''to aggressively address the financial 
crisis.'' ''We will investigate the Bush administration's mismanagement 
of financial regulation, how it led to this crisis, and what solutions 
Congress can act upon.''

''I don't think the American people want us to wait until next year. 
We would hope to have something as soon as we can.'' And I agree. We 
must have some accountability here. This is not a time to use fear 
tactics, to get people to just go along, to get along. This is a time 
for accountability.



We are at a time where the crossroads have come and where we're right 
at that fork, and either we will continue with the same or we will make 
a change for the betterment of our civil society.

Let me just say that, as we look at this bailout, it is our hope that 
we will look at Main Street and, as opposed to the trickle-down 
economics that got us to where we are today, that we will start at Main 
Street and will look at the needs of those who have been given these 
flimflam subprime loans and will work to make sure that we can keep 
Americans in their homes. We need to come out of this process with a 
corridor or with a pathway for American families to be able to 
renegotiate their terms in the same way that our financial institutions 
are asking for the renegotiation of their terms.

What is good for those who have benefited from this feeding frenzy, 
from this bonanza, from this greed, from this run-on money is good 
enough for those who have had to pay the cost. It is our hope that that 
will be a part of what ultimately is negotiated so that we can pass in 
this House a bill that is reflective of the desire of the American 
people.

The financial rescue that we are asking to consider this week will 
require some legislative solutions. It will conduct investigations into 
how Wall Street actually got into this crisis, and it will clean up 
what has become a huge mess, and it will insulate Main Street from Wall 
Street. We want to know how we will prevent this from ever happening 
again.

Congress is ready to work, but we are ready to work as coequal 
partners in this process. We are not willing to have the administration 
dictate to us the terms under which we will do what needs to be done to 
set our financial house in order. It's not up to us to simply hand over 
a $700 billion blank check to those in the financial sectors who are 
now in crises and hope for a better outcome.

The CBC, working along with our colleagues throughout this body in 
the New Direction Congress, will work to protect taxpayers' interests. 
We will make sure that the necessary safeguards that we believe will 
provide a responsible solution will include independent oversight and 
protection for homeowners with reasonable limits on executive 
compensation for CEOs and for other top executives.

I think one of the things that really boggles the mind of the 
average, everyday American is the fact that the corporate CEOs have 
gotten away with wrecking their corporations while receiving bonuses--
golden parachutes--when they're asked to leave. Now, for the average, 
everyday American, when they don't perform well at their jobs, all that 
they can expect is an escort out the door of their employers'. Yet 
somehow we've gotten it so twisted that we are actually giving rewards 
for bad performance. This has got to stop.

I do not understand how in a day and time when we're asking for 
accountability from everyone that we would enable these individuals who 
have been reckless in their endeavors to walk away scot-free. So we are 
clear that whatever we legislate this week will have implications for 
those who are in executive office and for those who are seeking to 
receive compensation as they depart from jobs poorly done.

I see that I have been joined this evening by the very distinguished 
gentleman from Chicago, Illinois, by a gentleman who has been a part of 
the Congressional Black Caucus for quite some time now and who has been 
a leader in education, in labor and in understanding the challenges of 
our urban communities across this Nation. I know he, like so many other 
members of the Congressional Black Caucus, has been getting phone calls 
throughout the weekend, starting Friday into today, nonstop, from his 
constituents who have been raising their concerns and their issues 
about the crisis that we're in, and they've been giving their advice 
about what they would like to see from us as a body representing their 
interests.

So, at this time, I yield as much time as he would like to consume to 
the gentleman from Chicago, Illinois, Congressman Danny Davis. 