---
---

# None
## `706d5484883364b795e2650b7e627d69`
`Mr. BYRD — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I commend and offer my wholehearted 
support for the resolution that Senator Durbin has submitted. His 
resolution, which I am proud to cosponsor, is a simple, clear statement 
of a fundamental constitutional principle; namely, that the Congress 
and only the Congress has the power to declare war. As this resolution 
states:




 Any offensive military action taken by the United States 


 against Iran must be explicitly approved by Congress before 


 such action may be initiated.


The President is the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. But the 
President of the United States, although Commander in Chief of the 
Armed Forces, is not a dictator. The President is not an emperor. He is 
President, who, like all Presidents, takes an oath of fealty to the 
Constitution of the United States.

It is the American people--the American people--who pay the price of 
war in blood and in treasure. And it is the American people, through 
their representatives in Congress--that means us--who must give their 
approval--the approval of the American people--for such a momentous 
decision. That is the system that George Washington recognized when he 
presented his resignation to the Continental Congress. That is the 
system that the wise Framers of the Constitution created when they 
drafted our most basic and sacred document. That is the system that 
every Senator takes an oath to defend.

Today is a fitting day to discuss the issue of Iran. Today is All 
Hallows Eve--Halloween--a day when people don masks and costumes to 
frighten others. The White House has been busy unleashing its 
rhetorical ghosts and goblins to scare the American people with claims 
of an imminent nuclear threat in Iran, as they did with Iraq. But while 
few people doubt the desire of some in the Iranian regime to attain a 
nuclear bomb, there is little evidence that Iran is close to acquiring 
such a weapon. Fear, panic, and chest-pounding do not work well in the 
conduct of foreign policy. This is a time to put diplomacy to work. 
There is ample opportunity to coordinate with our allies to constrain 
Iran's ambitions. But instead of working with our partners, the Bush 
administration has unveiled new unilateral sanctions against Iran. 
Instead of direct diplomatic negotiations with Iran, the Bush 
administration continues to issue ultimatums and threats.

We have been down that path already. We know where it leads. Vice 
President Cheney recently threatened ''serious consequences''--serious 
consequences--if Tehran does not acquiesce to U.S. demands--the exact 
phrase that he, the Vice President, used in the runup to the invasion 
of Iraq. The parallels are all too chilling. President Bush warned that 
those who wished to avoid World War III should seek to keep Iran from 
obtaining nuclear weapons. Secretary of Defense Gates has admitted in 
the press that the Pentagon has drafted plans for a military option in 
Iran. The President's $196 billion request for emergency war funding 
included a request for bunker buster bombs that have no immediate use 
in Iraq. Taking all of this together--the bellicose rhetoric, the 
needlessly confrontational unilateral sanctions, the provocative 
stationing of U.S. warships in the region, the operational war 
planning, and the request for munitions that seem designed for use in 
Iran--these are all reasons for deep concern that this administration 
is once again rushing headlong into another disastrous war in the 
Middle East.

The Bush administration apparently believes it has the authority to 
wage preemptive war. It believes it can do so without prior 
Congressional approval. That is why the resolution of Senator Richard 
Durbin of Illinois is so critical--namely, the White House must be 
reminded of the constitutional powers entrusted to the people's 
branch--that is us, the House of Representatives and the Senate. I urge 
my colleagues to join Senator Durbin and me on this important 
resolution and halt--halt--this rush to another war. Let us not make 
the same disastrous mistake as we did with Iraq.

Madam President, I yield the floor.