# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7072c2dbf167115c403e35f25e4ee590`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, this is a pretty important 
debate, and I have to tell you I am a little confused by my friends' 
resolution. It is a very complex problem.

When you look at the problem in Iraq today, you have really two 
distinct problems. One is the ethnosectarian violence that is self-
sustaining now in Baghdad. It was a precursor to al Qaeda activity to 
actually create conflict between the Sunnis and the Shias, and 
unfortunately, it has raised to a level that it is self-sustaining.

And you have an al Qaeda-Sunni insurgency happening west of Baghdad 
that certainly warrants our attention, and the troops there have called 
for reinforcements. They said, give us reinforcements, we need them 
badly. Al Qaeda is settling in to make safe haven here.

And part of the plan or the surge in fact says that we are going to 
reinforce those soldiers who are fighting al Qaeda, and they have asked 
to be reinforced.

The simplicity of the resolution concerns me greatly. I am not in 
favor of sending American troops, the other 16,000, into the streets of 
Baghdad to intervene in the sectarian violence. I am not.

I am in favor of supporting the soldiers who have asked and should 
receive reinforcements fighting al Qaeda in the west.

This resolution really makes no difference in that fight. It makes no 
difference in the complexities and how we win and get our soldiers 
home. This resolution does not bring one soldier home. This resolution 
does not make one soldier safer. This resolution does not bring to 
justice one terrorist. This resolution offers not one alternative.

I think we made some devastating mistakes in Iraq: The extent of our 
de-Baathification, and what that has meant for us winning the peace, 
the dismissal wholesale of military units and what that has meant to 
our ability to sustain peace, the shuttering of nearly 300 state-owned 
enterprises and what that has done for unemployment and not allowing us 
to sustain the peace, our failure to focus our national power on 
solving some of these basic problems.

We, in fact, and this is up to us, have allowed politics to creep 
onto the field of battle, and that has created some very real problems 
for us and our soldiers. We have seen, because of that politics that 
has crept into the battlefield in Iraq and what that has meant, it has 
created some inefficiencies. I, the other day, have counted up 12 
different groups or agencies or Departments that have some ability to 
provide reconstruction money in Iraq. Twelve. That is a problem.

Some conflicting policies. Our soldiers will tell you that they feel 
that they are handcuffed. They at least have one hand cuffed behind 
their back because of the politics that have crept in


that changed the way they are allowed to engage the enemy as they see 
him and protect themselves. Politics crept onto the battlefield.

The turf battles between the State Department and DOD, I wish they 
didn't exist. We all know they do. We took a very large, bureaucratic, 
civilian organization and set it down in the middle of Baghdad and 
wondered why it has some inefficiencies. But these are things that we 
can change. We can do that.

And my mother told me that if you are going to tell me what I am 
doing wrong, you better be prepared to tell me how to do it right.

The resolution before us today says nothing of an alternative. We 
have soldiers who are getting up every day engaging themselves in the 
fight for liberty and defense and going after al Qaeda targets in the 
west and trying to find al Qaeda elements locating and spurring on to 
self-sustaining ethno sectarian violence. It does nothing to tell them 
that we, A, support them and, B, will give them all the tools and make 
the changes that we know we can to make it possible for them to come 
home to their families soon.

This afternoon I am going to do that. I am introducing a resolution, 
it is fairly comprehensive, that will allow us to focus our national 
power without sending 20,000 troops to Iraq. It will help target the 
unemployment that we know is fueling terrorism in Iraq today. Clear 
rules of engagement for our troops, calling for the repatriation of the 
one to two million Iraqis who are middle class Iraqis, their doctors 
and lawyers and engineers and their teachers who fled Iraq in this 
turmoil to engage our allies to get them back and invest them in the 
future of Iraq.

What disturbs me most, Mr. Speaker, about this resolution, is its 
clear purpose is to divide those of us in this Chamber.

As I said earlier, I don't support the surge in Iraq that targets 
sectarian violence in Baghdad. I think that must have an Iraqi face for 
that to be successful, and I think we can provide logistics and command 
and control and we can provide combat air support and special operation 
support to make them successful as they move through Iraq. I think we 
can do that.

But this resolution does nothing to bring Members together to solve 
this problem. If you win this vote today, and this passes, we will have 
solved not one problem for one soldier who gets up this morning hoping 
and praying that he can accomplish his mission and come home to his 
family, not one. It truly seeks to find the differences of those of us 
in this Chamber on how we move forward in Iraq. There is nothing 
constructive in that, nothing constructive in that.

There is a young soldier that I met, I visited him down in Brooks 
Army Medical Center. He asked that his leg be amputated so that he 
could have full range of motion so he could pass the physical training 
test for the United States Army and go back to Iraq. And he was going 
through all that very painful process of getting it fitted and going 
through the physical training and trying to rehabilitate himself.

And as I got ready to leave, I said, is there anything that I can do 
for you as a Member of Congress? And he turned and said yes, sir, there 
is. Just don't give up on us.

Now, if this soldier can believe in this mission, and he can get up 
every day and fight through the sweat and the pain and the anguish of a 
lost limb so that he can get back in the business, if he can roll up 
his pant leg every day and fit that prosthesis, isn't there a way, and 
shouldn't we do better and roll up our sleeves to work together to find 
a solution? We got in this together, we must get out of it together.

We need to stop the division that this resolution brings to this 
House and start working together. Our soldiers deserve better. America 
deserves better. The future of this country and safety and security 
deserve better.