---
---

# CELEBRATE SAFE COMMUNITIES
## `7077b9a278db377321a2fba4dcd299cc`
`Mr. DURBIN — 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I join in the tributes of my colleagues 
who are leaving the Senate on the Republican side. There are only three 
ways to leave the Senate. You can retire, you


can lose, or you can die. They have chosen the best of the three 
options, to leave of their own will.

The first Senator to whom I wish to pay tribute is on the floor. That 
is Senator John Warner of Virginia. I have listened to the tributes 
from Senators Harry Reid and Chris Dodd and so many others and I join 
in the chorus. I will not recount John's illustrious career and service 
to our country. But he was kind enough a few weeks ago, when I called 
and said I do a cable show, can I drop by his office, and he agreed to 
it. We have captured forever, in this little cable show I do, his 
office. Some of the memorabilia tell the story of his life and the 
story of Virginia and the U.S. Navy, I might add, and he also shared so 
many great stories of his service to our country in so many different 
capacities--in the Navy, in the Marine Corps, in the President's 
Cabinet, and in the Senate.

I think of John Warner and his gentlemanly ways as I hope not a 
throwback to the Senate of the past but perhaps an inspiration of the 
Senate of the future because his friendship transcends party label.

There have been times in the Senate when he has proven, with his 
independence, that he looks at issues honestly and directly and 
sometimes has broken from the ranks of his fellow Republicans when he 
felt it was necessary. I know he thinks long and hard before he makes 
those decisions.

There have been times when he showed extraordinary leadership during 
this contentious debate over this war in Iraq. He and Senator Levin 
exemplified the very best in the Senate. Even when they disagreed, they 
were totally respectful of one another, they were deferential to one 
another's feelings and interest. Yet they served the national purpose 
by engaging in a meaningful, thoughtful debate on an extremely 
controversial issue.

During the course of the last several years--John Warner may not 
remember this, but I will never forget it--when I got into hot water on 
the floor of the Senate for words that were spoken, John Warner was one 
of the first to come to me afterward. He put an arm on my shoulder and 
said: Look, we all make mistakes. Carry on.

I know it is probably something he has forgotten, but I never will. I 
thank him for that generous spirit and compassion, which I hope will be 
part of my public service career in the future, as has exemplified his 
own. He showed courage so many times and foresight that will be part of 
his legacy.

As Harry Reid mentioned, the courage to step out in his own home 
State against all the odds and to take on a member of his own party 
with whom he disagreed in a very public way, that wasn't missed. We 
noticed all across America that you were willing to show that kind of 
courage.

In the Senate recently, if Senator Barbara Boxer was on the floor--if 
she hasn't already done it, I am sure she will when she returns--she 
will tell you, were it not for John Warner's leadership, the debate on 
the issue of global warming would not have gone forward in the Senate 
this year. Both Senator Warner and Senator Lieberman stepped up and 
found a bipartisan approach to deal with this issue. We did not pass 
it. I wish we had. But we certainly engaged in debate many thought was 
impossible. We brought it to the floor. We engaged the Senate and the 
American people in a thoughtful consideration of an issue that will be 
here for generations to come.

I consider it a great honor to have served with John. I think he is 
an exceptional individual. Virginia was lucky to have him as their 
voice in the Senate for 30 years. America was lucky to have him in 
service to our country in so many different capacities.