---
---

# None
## `7087b75b4610953aeba4184eb8646a32`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 7 March 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to our 
brave soldiers fighting overseas and in particular the nearly 3,000 
Minnesota National Guard members who recently had their stays extended 
in Iraq. I wish to speak about our duty to these soldiers for their 
sacrifices on behalf of our Nation. It is an issue that must transcend 
partisanship.

Whether one supports the President's escalation or opposes it, as I 
do, there is one point on which we can agree: We must support the 
soldiers on the battlefield, and when they return home, we must give 
them the support they need.

In the past 4 years, American military service personnel and their 
families have endured challenges and stressful conditions that are 
unprecedented in recent history, including unrelenting operational 
demands and recurring deployments in combat zones.

Mr. President, 1.5 million American service men and women have served 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. These wars are creating new generations of 
veterans who need their country to stand with them. Many of the 
soldiers fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan are doing it not only to 
serve their country but also to provide for their families.

One of these soldiers was Army SGT William ''B.J.'' Beardsley, who 
lived in Minnesota. Sergeant Beardsley joined the Army just after high 
school and completed one term of service. But when his wife Stacy 
encountered medical ailments, Sergeant Beardsley decided to reenlist, 
in part so that his health insurance would cover the medical treatment 
his wife required.

His personal sacrifice to family and country allowed his wife to 
successfully undergo surgery. Tragically, the day Stacy left the 
hospital, Sergeant Beardsley was killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq.

I have always believed that when we ask our young men and women to 
fight and die for this Nation, we make a promise that we will give them 
all the resources they need to do their job and when they return home, 
we will take care of them and their families. Sergeant Beardsley will 
not be coming home, but for too many of his fellow soldiers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan who do return, our promise to take care of them has 
repeatedly been broken.

As a nation, we have an obligation to wrap our arms around the people 
who serve us and who have sacrificed for us. Today, our veterans need 
us more than ever. While the President pushes ahead with his surge of 
additional troops into Iraq's civil war, at home we are already 
experiencing a vastly larger surge of returning soldiers, many of them 
citizen soldiers from the National Guard and Reserves.

More than 3,000 have returned having made the ultimate sacrifice, 
leaving behind grieving families and communities. Tens of thousands 
have come home physically wounded. Tens of thousands more return 
suffering from post-traumatic stress, depression, and substance abuse 
as a result of their service. These are men and women who have served 
our country on the front lines, but on returning home too many have 
found themselves shunted to the end of the line, left waiting to get 
the health care they need, left waiting to receive the benefits they 
have earned and, as the shocking revelations from Walter Reed show us, 
some have been left waiting in the most squalid of conditions. We are 
now learning this is not an isolated incident.

In Minnesota, one of those left waiting was Jonathan Schulze. 
Jonathan, from Stewart, MN, was a 25-year-old marine who had fought in 
Iraq and earned two Purple Hearts. He told his parents that 16 men in 
his unit had died in 2 days of battle. When he returned home in 2005, 
the war did not leave him. He suffered flashbacks and panic attacks. He 
started drinking heavily to stave off nightmares. According to VA 
Secretary Jim Nicholson, Jonathan was seen by the VA 46 times in 
Minneapolis and St. Cloud, MN, but this was not enough. In January, 
this young war veteran hanged himself.

We now learn that the VA Medical Center in St. Cloud has 15 acute 
inpatient psychiatric beds, while a decade ago there were 198 beds. 
That means the number of acute psychiatric beds available for veterans 
there has declined by more than 90 percent in the past decade. It is as 
if nobody even realized that we have been at war for the past 4 years 
and that tens of thousands of Minnesotans have returned from combat, 
with many more to come.

Our veterans didn't stand in long waiting lines when they were called 
up or volunteered to serve our Nation. So why are we asking them to 
stand in line now for medical care?

As a former prosecutor, there is a saying that ''justice delayed is 
justice denied.'' I would add that, for our veterans, ''health care 
delayed is health care denied,'' and that, too, is an injustice. We 
need to do better, much better, and we can.

In fact, we know what needs to be done. First, we need to stop 
shortchanging our veterans during the budget process. Just as this 
administration sent our soldiers into battle without a plan for 
victory, it also failed to develop a plan to address their needs once 
they got home. The administration shockingly underestimated the number 
of veterans who would require medical care.

In its fiscal year 2005 budget request, the Department of Defense 
estimated


that they would have to provide care for 23,500 veterans from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. In reality, more than four times that number required 
assistance. Last year, the Pentagon underestimated the number of 
veterans seeking care by 87,000.

The Department of Veterans Affairs operates the largest medical 
system in the Nation. It has a reputation for high-quality care, with 
many talented, dedicated doctors, nurses, and other staff. The VA's 
resources, however, are now severely strained. The waiting list and 
delays get longer. The shortages are especially severe in mental health 
care. Last year, the VA underestimated the number of new post-traumatic 
cases by five times.

For the past several years, this administration has submitted a 
budget request for the VA that significantly underfunded the needs of 
America's 25 million veterans. This is from the same administration 
that each year asks Congress to authorize tens of billions of dollars 
for projects in Iraq. I was pleased that the continuing resolution, 
passed a few weeks ago, increased funding for the VA by $3.5 billion 
over fiscal year 2006 levels. However, this should only be the 
beginning of a renewed commitment to our service men and women, both on 
the front lines and on the home front.

When the President's budget comes to the Senate floor later this 
month, I will join my like-minded colleagues in pressing for a 
substantial increase in VA funding.

Second, we need to start treating our National Guard and Reserves 
like the soldiers they are. Up to 40 percent of the troops fighting in 
Iraq have been National Guard members and reservists. Minnesotans know 
all too well the burden being placed on our Guard forces. The National 
Guard was not built to serve as an Active-Duty force for prolonged 
periods of time. Yet that is exactly what we are requiring them to do. 
Guard funding and benefits have not gone up correspondingly to match 
its increased duties.

Meanwhile, the Pentagon is stripping Guard units of their equipment 
in order to make up for shortages in supply. States rely on the 
presence of a strong and well-equipped Guard in order to respond to 
domestic emergencies. Department of Defense policies have weakened the 
Guard to the point that a recent commission found that 88 percent of 
Guard units in the United States cannot meet preparedness levels.

It is time we recognize the elevated position and importance of the 
National Guard to our national security. As a member of the National 
Guard Caucus, I support the National Guard Empowerment Act, which will 
promote the commander of the National Guard to a four-star general and 
make him a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It will also grant the 
Guard more responsibility over coordinating Federal and local agencies 
during emergencies.

We must also upgrade Guard members from their perceived status as 
second class veterans in other areas, including health care, pension 
plans, education, and reintegration programs. We need to do a better 
job of integrating our returning veterans back into our communities 
when they return. This is particularly hard for National Guard members 
when they do not have a base to go home to and have to go to literally 
thousands of communities and small towns across this country.


In Minnesota, we are proud to have created the Beyond the Yellow 
Ribbon Program, which provides counseling and support to National Guard 
members and their families. Across my State right now, the National 
Guard is sponsoring a unique series of Family Reintegration Academies. 
Several weeks ago, I had the honor of attending one of these academies 
in Alexandria, MN. This pilot reintegration program has helped ease the 
transition for soldiers and their families, and it has gotten fabulous 
reviews from the participating families.

What works in Minnesota can work in every State across the Nation. As 
we enter this appropriations process, I will be working with my 
colleagues to insist that the Federal budget include funding for 
reintegration programs for Guard members and reservists.

Third, we need to improve health care for all of our soldiers. The 
problems found at Walter Reed are all too common at veterans hospitals 
and centers nationwide. I have joined my colleagues in legislation that 
will begin to solve the personnel and building shortages at Walter Reed 
Hospital and similar centers across the Nation. I also will join the 
Democratic leadership in the Senate in their HEROES plan to provide 
more oversight to veterans affairs and develop legislation to address 
these problems.

One of the most glaring needs in veterans health care today is 
funding for research and treatment of poly-
traumatic injuries. As Bob Woodruff of ABC News showed us so vividly 
last week, with his own example and that of many other wounded 
soldiers, brain trauma has become a signature injury of this war in 
Iraq.

Minnesota is home to one of the VA's systems four polytrauma 
rehabilitation centers. The others are in Palo Alto, Richmond, and 
Tampa. These centers were created in recognition of the large number of 
service members sustaining multiple severe injuries as a result of 
explosions and blasts. These centers provide a full array of inpatient 
and outpatient services, with specialized programs for traumatic brain 
injuries, spinal cord injury, blind rehabilitation, and post-traumatic 
stress disorder.

I have visited the VA polytrauma brain center in Minneapolis. We need 
more of these centers and more research into the permanent effects of 
brain trauma caused by explosions on the battlefield. Our current VA 
infrastructure is not equipped to deal with these injuries and to care 
for brain-injured vets once they leave these specialized centers and 
return home. This must be a priority.

Another issue that is only beginning to receive sufficient attention 
is the proliferation of mental health disorders among veterans. 
According to a Veterans' Health Administration report, roughly one-
third of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who sought care through the VA 
were diagnosed with potential symptoms of post-traumatic stress, drug 
abuse, or other mental disorders.

The Joshua Omvig Suicide Prevention Act, introduced by my colleagues 
from Iowa, will help ensure 24-hour access to mental health care for 
veterans deemed at risk for suicide. It will create VA programs to help 
veterans cope with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental 
illnesses that too often lead them to take their own lives. Nearly 
1,000 veterans who receive care from the VA commit suicide each year. 
It is too late for Jonathan Schulze, but it is not too late for the 
many other suffering soldiers who are at risk for suicide.

In the coming weeks and months, I hope to engage my colleagues to 
cooperate on new legislation that will increase the funding and 
commitment to veterans mental health services. In past years, veterans, 
such as my father, could count on the fact that their Government would 
stand by them. After World War II, our Government did just that, 
adopting the GI bill to provide health, housing, and educational 
benefits that gave returning veterans the help they needed to heal, to 
raise families, and to prosper.

At a time when we are spending billions on the reconstruction of 
Iraq, funding for health care for veterans is far below what is needed. 
Those are the wrong priorities for our country. We cannot abandon the 
brave soldiers who fought for us once they return.

In his Second Inaugural, President Lincoln reminded the American 
people that in war we must strive to ''bind up the Nation's wounds, to 
care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his 
orphan.'' Today, Americans are again called to bind up our Nation's 
wounds and to care for those who have borne the battle, as well as 
their families who have shouldered their own sacrifice.

Let us live up to this solemn obligation to bring our troops home 
safely and to honor our returning soldiers and their families by giving 
them the care and the benefits they have earned.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.





 Amendments Nos. 383 and 384, En Bloc, to Amendment No. 275
