---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `70a4ba08561b12bfb50af88eb0cbf256`
`Mr. KERRY — 23 April 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today along with Senator Graham, I am 
introducing the Medal of Honor Commemorative Coin Act of 2009 to assist 
the Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation in raising the funds it 
needs to promote the qualities which the Medal of Honor embodies--
courage, sacrifice, selfless service, and patriotism.

The Medal of Honor was first authorized by Congress in 1861 and 
represents our Nation's highest award for valor in action against an 
enemy force. The medal symbolizes the value we, as a Nation, place on 
the power of one individual to make a difference in extraordinary 
circumstances through selfless actions of bravery. Although the Medal 
of Honor was created for the Civil War, Congress made it a permanent 
decoration in 1863. Since then, fewer than 3,500 Medals of Honor have 
been awarded to members of the U.S. Armed Forces--approximately half 
during the Civil War. Today, there are only 111 living recipients. 
These select few exemplify the values of our great nation through their 
incredible acts of bravery and commitment to our country.

The Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation was formed in 1999. This 
501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization promotes heroism and selflessness 
among our Nation's youth by perpetuating the Medal of Honor's legacy 
through increased awareness, education, scholarships, behavior, and 
example. The commemorative coins will be legal tender, emblematic of 
the spirit of the Medal of Honor, giving the holder a physical reminder 
of the American tradition of selfless service and sacrifice. These 
coins will be minted for the year 2011, marking the 150th anniversary 
of the Medal of Honor's initial authorization by Congress.

Today, in Iraq and Afghanistan, American soldiers not only serve 
their country selflessly but do so in an exemplary manner. In this time 
of war and sacrifice it is of utmost importance that we show the people 
fighting for their country how much we value their service.

This is the medal won by Sergeant First Class Paul R. Smith. Under 
attack at the Baghdad International Airport, Sergeant Smith quickly 
organized the defense on the ground to engage a company-sized enemy 
force. He showed no concern for his own personal safety when he mounted 
a personnel carrier and manned a .50 caliber machine gun while under 
fire from the enemy and was mortally wounded in doing so. His valor 
lead to the defeat of the enemy and saved the lives of numerous injured 
members of his platoon.

This is the medal won by Captain Humbert Roque Versace. During an 
intense attack by the Viet Cong in the Xuyen Providence Captain Versace 
was wounded while engaging the enemy. Although he fought against 
capture through injury and hostility he was taken prisoner. While 
incarcerated Captain Versace exemplified the Code of Conduct as a 
prisoner of war, attempted to escape three times and never gave in to 
the brutal interrogations all while maintaining command over his fellow 
American soldiers that were also imprisoned setting an extraordinary 
example.

This is the medal won by Marine Corps Second Lieutenant Robert Dale 
Reem, who on the night of November 6, 1950, after leading three 
separate assaults on an enemy position in the vicinity of Chinhung-ni, 
Korea, threw himself on top of an enemy grenade that landed amidst his 
men.

Since 1863 this country has been honoring its greatest heroes by 
decorating them with the Congressional Medal of Honor. This is an elite 
group of men and women who make us proud everyday of the U.S. Armed 
Forces and the protection they afford us. We should show our thanks in 
the best manner possible.



I ask all my colleagues to support this legislation.