# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `70a93cdb03ce889096361cf47e1e0a8d`
`Mr. HOLT — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this bill, which will 
provide our men and women in uniform with the tools to defend America 
and its people. Overall, this bill provides $459.594 billion for the 
operations of the Defense Department for fiscal year 2008, which is 
more than $43 billion above last year's level.

This bill keeps faith with our troops and their families in three key 
areas. First, this bill provides $2.9 billion ($558.4 million above the 
President's request) for programs including childcare centers, 
education programs and the family advocacy program which provides 
support to military families affected by the demands of war and 
episodes of child or spouse abuse. Second, the bill addresses the 
health care needs of military families and retirees by providing 
$22.957 billion ($1.7 billion above 2007 and $416 million above the 
President's 2008 request) for their care. The bill rejects the 
President's proposal to inflict $1.9 billion in TRICARE fee and premium 
increases on our troops, their families, and our military retirees. 
Finally, the bill provides $2.2 to cover the cost of a 3.5 percent 
military pay raise, as approved in the House version of the Defense 
Authorization bill.

This bill also prepares our forces to meet future needs. The bill 
provides $7.548 billion, a 13 percent increase for all home-stationing 
training, so that our troops are well prepared for any eventual 
deployment. The bill also supports DoD's plans to increase the size of 
the Army and Marines by providing $4 billion to cover the equipment 
costs of adding 7,000 Army troops and $2 billion to cover cost of 
adding 5,000 Marines. These force structure increases may reduce the 
number of deployments individual servicemembers may face in the years 
ahead.

The bill also addresses Guard and Reserve equipment shortfalls by 
providing $925 million ($635 million above 2007 levels) in order to 
help forces meet the demands of overseas deployments and respond to 
natural disasters here at home. This amount meets the requirements 
identified by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau in the ''Essential 
10 Equipment Requirements for the Global War on Terror.''

To help America maintain its technological edge in the military 
arena, the bill provides $76.229 billion ($1.112 billion above the 
President's request and $508 million above 2007 levels) for research, 
development, testing and evaluation programs, including military 
medical research.

Funding for production of the Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter was 
zeroed out because they are not ready to go into production. Research 
and development will continue. Regarding ballistic missile defense 
programs, the committee cut some $298 million from the President's 
$8.498 billion request. I continue to believe that this is the single 
most wasteful, technologically impractical, and politically 
shortsighted programs in the entire Pentagon budget, and I hope that 
further cuts to this program will be forthcoming when the House and 
Senate conferees meet later this year.

The bill also cuts $406 million from the President's $3.157 billion 
request for the Future Combat System, the Army's projected next 
generation of armor, artillery, and related vehicle programs. This is 
another example of a Cold War legacy program that continues to receive 
massive funding despite its complete irrelevance to the wars we've been 
waging since 9/11.

If we've learned anything from our experience in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, it's not that our soldiers' greatest need has been 
additional firepower from new tanks and artillery pieces--it's been 
their need for translators and cultural specialist who could help them 
bridge the language and culture gap with the Iraqis and Afghans who 
want to help us find the insurgents and terrorists who are destroying 
their societies. I'm glad the committee has taken this initial step in 
reducing expenditures on this Cold War legacy program, but I hope that 
it represents only the beginning of a fundamental reevaluation of this 
program and the eventual reprogramming of its funds towards more 
productive ends.

Finally, I wanted to take a moment to address a structural change 
that was made to the committee at the beginning of this Congress, one 
that has significantly enhanced this body's oversight of intelligence 
programs. Earlier this year and under the leadership of Speaker Pelosi, 
the House passed H. Res. 35, which created the Select Intelligence 
Oversight Panel, which I have the honor of chairing. This step was in 
direct response to the 9/11 Commission recommendation that Congress 
take steps to reform how it conducts oversight of the intelligence 
community.

Our panel contains a mix of members from both the Appropriations 
Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Our 
charter is to review the operations of the intelligence community and 
to recommend policies and funding levels where necessary. The bill 
before you incorporates our recommendations. The majority of these 
recommendations are detailed in the classified annex to this bill and 
cannot be discussed in open session. However, one specific 
recommendation can be outlined for this body and the public, and it 
involves those critical foreign language programs of which I spoke 
earlier.

Our panel recommended a more than $10 million increase in funding for 
the National Security Education Program, or NSEP for short. NSEP was 
established by the David L. Boren National Security Education Act 
(NSEA), as amended, P.L. 102-183, codified at 50 U.S.C. 1901 et seq. It 
was signed into law by President George H. W. Bush on December 4, 1991. 
The NSEA mandated the Secretary of Defense to create the National 
Security Education Program (NSEP) to award: (1) scholarships to U.S. 
undergraduate students to study abroad in areas critical to U.S. 
national security; (2) fellowships to U.S. graduate students to study 
languages and world regions critical to U.S. national security; and (3) 
grants to U.S. institutions of higher education to develop programs of 
study in and about countries, languages and international fields 
critical to national security and under-represented in U.S. study. Also 
mandated in the NSEA was the creation of the National Security 
Education Board (NSEB) to provide overall guidance for NSEP.

NSEP's mission is to build a broader and more qualified pool of U.S. 
citizens with foreign language and international skills. It consists of 
five initiatives that represent broad strategic partnerships with the 
U.S. education community designed to serve the needs of U.S. national 
security and national competitiveness. NSEP focuses on the critical 
languages and cultures of Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, the Middle 
East, and Latin America, and is unique in the commitment of its award 
recipients to proceed into public service upon completion of their 
academic studies. Each NSEP award recipient must demonstrate a 
commitment to bring his or her extraordinary skills to the Federal 
Government through employment within one of its many agencies and 
departments.

I'm pleased that our panel has placed such bipartisan emphasis on 
closing the foreign language and cultural literacy gaps that still 
exist within our national intelligence and defense agencies. However, 
it is clear that our deployed forces still do not have anything 
approaching the number of qualified linguists and cultural experts to 
help them effectively interact with the people of Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and most of the other countries of the Arab and Islamic world that are 
the critical battlegrounds in the war of ideas, hearts, and minds 
against al Qaeda. I will work with Chairman Murtha in the coming year 
to address this issue.

Mr. Chairman, on balance, this is a good bill that provides our armed 
forces what they need to protect our citizens, our allies, and our 
vital interests, and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for it.

Mr. Chairman, I commend the subcommittee for bringing this bill to 
the floor. Let me also take a moment to commend the outstanding staff 
of both the Defense subcommittee and the staff of the Select 
Intelligence Oversight


Panel for their hard work and expert contributions to our final 
product. I also want to thank the Panel's ranking member, Mr. LaHood, 
for his many thoughtful contributions to our work this year.

Speaker Pelosi is a leader of vision and boldness. Under her 
leadership, the House passed H. Res. 35, which created the Select 
Intelligence Oversight Panel, which I have the honor to chair. This 
step was in direct response to the recommendations of the 9/11 
Commission that Congress reform how it conducts oversight of the 
intelligence community. Specifically, the Commission said ''Congress 
should create a joint committee for intelligence, in with combined 
authorizing and appropriations powers.'' The Speaker created a panel 
consisting of appropriators and authorizers .

Our panel contains a mix of members from both the Appropriations 
Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Our 
charter is to review all aspects of the intelligence community and 
report to the Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Defense. The 
bill before you contains our first such set of recommendations, which 
have put everyone on notice that real Congressional oversight of 
intelligence activities has resumed after a long and dangerous lapse.

This panel--unprecedented in Congressional history I believe--appears 
to be making a difference. Chairman Obey and Chairman Murtha have taken 
the Speaker's proposal and made it succeed. Working in a bipartisan 
manner, the panel has made numerous recommendations ranging from 
increased funding for foreign language programs to restructuring of 
major intelligence programs. Those recommendations are incorporated 
into this bill.

I think almost all Americans now know that our national intelligence 
agencies activities around the globe affect their safety and prosperity 
at home. What I hope they will now also know is that we in the House 
have made the oversight changes necessary to help keep them safe and 
their liberties secure.

Let me close by saying that our Panel's work is just beginning, and 
that I look forward to reporting to the House occasionally on our 
activities.