---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `70b1ba6193694e50e0949a138413a849`
`Mr. REED — 7 November 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am pleased this afternoon to recommend the 
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and related agencies division 
of this conference report to the Senate. This is an extremely important 
and time-sensitive funding measure, and I urge my colleagues to adopt 
it without delay as part of the Labor and Health and Human Services 
conference report and send it to the President to be signed into law.

I am particularly honored to be presenting this measure to the Senate 
on behalf of the chairman of the subcommittee, Senator Tim Johnson. We 
have worked closely throughout the entire appropriations process, and 
the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs provisions before the 
Senate today are the product of a thoroughly collaborative and a 
cooperative effort, but the leadership was provided by Senator Johnson. 
I appreciate Senator Johnson's graciousness in allowing me to offer 
this conference report on his behalf.

I would also like to thank the ranking member of our subcommittee, 
Senator Hutchison, for her excellent work and cooperation in developing 
this conference report and the chairman and ranking member of the full 
committee, Chairman Byrd and Senator Cochran, for their strong support 
and guidance in shepherding this legislation to the floor.

The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs conference report 
before the Senate today is fair, balanced, and a bipartisan piece of 
legislation that deserves the full support of the Senate.

The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs portion of this 
conference report is critically important to our Nation's military 
forces and to our veterans. It includes $64.7 billion in total 
discretionary funding--$3.7 billion over the President's budget request 
for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This level of funding includes 
$37.2 billion for veterans health care, a high-water mark in the 
history of the Department--the largest sum of money ever appropriated 
for veterans health care. Indeed, it is consistent with the independent 
budget the veterans organizations have proposed year after year. This 
is the first time we could match their goal with our appropriation. We 
have provided $2.6 billion more than the President requested for 
veterans health care and $373 million more than the veterans service 
organizations sought in the independent budget. We have, in fact, gone 
beyond what the independent veterans organizations have suggested in 
their budget. This level of funding is a clear demonstration of the 
importance this Congress places on the health and welfare of our 
Nation's veterans.

The funding included in this conference report supports a myriad of 
programs crucial to America's veterans, including funding the veterans 
hospitals, clinics, and veterans centers, as well as cutting-edge 
research into critical areas of health care such as traumatic brain 
injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. As a result of the 
asymmetric combat we are witnessing in Iraq and Afghanistan, this 
Nation is


producing a new generation of veterans, and they have markedly 
different service-related injuries than were experienced in previous 
wars. Thankfully, more service men and women are surviving their war 
wounds, but many are surviving with catastrophic physical and mental 
injuries.

The nature of veterans health care for new veterans is changing 
dramatically, while the demand for short-term and long-term health care 
for veterans of previous wars is rapidly increasing as the veteran 
population ages. We have two currents rushing together: veterans of 
World War II and Korea who are now in their seventies and eighties 
requiring more care simply because of their age, and a new generation 
of veterans coming out of Afghanistan and Iraq, many of whom are 
sustaining neurological injuries such as traumatic brain injury or 
post-traumatic stress disorder. This other stream of veterans is 
flooding into our system, and we have to care for all of these 
veterans. That is why this legislation is particularly timely and 
particularly important.

All of the challenges to the Department of Veterans Affairs are 
enormous. The conference report before the Senate today addresses those 
challenges. With this funding, we are providing the resources for the 
Department to meet the needs of both aging veterans from yesterday's 
wars and emerging veterans from today's conflict.

The conference report also includes critically needed funding for 
military construction. It provides a total of $21.5 billion for 
military construction and an $8.4 billion increase over last year's 
funding level, with most of the increase directed toward implementing 
the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Program.

I am particularly pleased that the conference report includes $1.1 
billion for the Nation's Guard and Reserve forces--a 34.5-percent 
increase over the President's budget request. The wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have placed an unprecedented demand on the Nation's Guard 
and Reserve Forces. Yet the President's budget slashed construction 
funding for several of the Guard and Reserve components. This 
conference report corrects that inequity. For example, it increases 
funding for the Army National Guard 25 percent over the President's 
budget request, and for the Air Guard, the conference report more than 
triples the President's budget request.

Military construction may not have the glamour of the Defense 
Department's sophisticated weapons and other programs, but it is, 
nevertheless, the bedrock of the Nation's military. Our troops must 
have sufficient funding to provide barracks, facilities for training 
and maintaining their equipment, and adequate housing for their 
families. Without the resources provided in this legislation, these 
crucial facilities could not be constructed. This legislation provides 
funding for an impressive array of military construction projects, the 
vast majority of which were requested by the President. All of the 
major construction projects added to the President's budget by the 
Senate have been fully vetted, are included in the authorization bill, 
and are encompassed within the service's Future Years Defense Plan.

Some have complained that the Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs conference report should not be coupled with the Labor and 
Health and Human Services conference report. I will have more to say 
about that later, but I would like to make the point now that these two 
bills complement each other in many respects, and it makes perfectly 
good sense to link them together.

There are more than a few crossover items between the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill and the Labor and 
Health and Human Services appropriations bill. These include, to name a 
few, the Labor Department's Veterans Employment and Training Program, 
which includes the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program; the 
Department of Education's Impact Aid Program, which assists school 
districts whose student population is swelled by military dependents; 
and the Traumatic Brain Injury Program directed by the Department of 
Health and Human Services and the Centers for Disease Control. There 
are numerous programs that provide benefits to veterans and their 
families that are included in the Health and Human Services program. 
Veterans are not simply veterans. They are members of communities. They 
have children. They have spouses. They require the services that are 
included not only in the Veterans' Administration bill but particularly 
their families in other legislation and other appropriations included 
in the Health and Human Services bill.

Something else, too, I think is important to stress, and I will do 
that in greater detail, these veterans as young men and women committed 
themselves to this country, not because they anticipated collecting 
veterans' benefits but because they wanted to make a difference. They 
wanted to ensure that--mercifully and hopefully--the next generation of 
Americans wouldn't have to go into combat, but beyond that, that all 
Americans would have a chance. It was not about ensuring elaborate tax 
loopholes or sophisticated financial transactions; they were fighting--
and, sadly, being injured and too many dying--to give people a chance 
in this country, an opportunity to go to school, for children to get 
immunizations, and for bright, talented young people to go to college. 
That is why I think it is also essential that these two bills are being 
considered together, because if we provide for our veterans, they have 
earned it--and we should and we must and we will--but if we neglect the 
rest of the country, have we truly fulfilled and measured up to what 
they served and sacrificed for? I don't think so.

The Senate has before it a comprehensive and vitally important 
conference report for funding both Departments, both areas--the 
Department of Labor and Health and Human Services, the Education 
Department, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. We have the 
opportunity--I would argue, the obligation--to send a signal to the 
President of this country and to the Nation that we are not willing to 
play favorites among appropriations bills. Funding for health care for 
our veterans is clearly a priority, but it does not trump our 
commitment to fund health care services for all Americans or education 
programs or job training for those who need it, including veterans who 
participate in many of the Department of Labor programs.

I urge my colleagues to support this conference report in its 
entirety and send it to the President today.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of 
whatever time I may have.