# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `70bc9e82cf4eb0b1885776ec06809c40`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I was one of those Members 
who understood the horror of 9/11 and joined with the then-President of 
the United States to respond to an attack on the United States. 
Subsequently in the Iraq war, I voted against that war knowing that it 
had nothing to do with the attack on the United States on 9/11. So I do 
not stand on this floor with a heart that is not heavy-laden and an 
understanding of the importance of this resolution. This resolution is 
grounded in the Constitution and it has merit; for the question is, 
when we responded to 9/11, it was a war on terror.

Today, we find that this is a war of insurgents. There is no real 
documentation that al Qaeda still lingers in Afghanistan. But we do 
understand that we have lost 1,000 Americans to date--70 in 2010 and 
316 in 2009--soldiers that we honor and respect. Never will there be 
one soldier that we don't call for an honor and respect of the United 
States. In fact, I filed legislation to have a day of honor for all of 
our returning soldiers. None of them should come home to silence. We 
should always provide great honor for them.

But here is where we are as it relates to the situation in 
Afghanistan. Today, although he has the right to do so, President 
Karzai is greeting the President of Iran. I hope they work together for 
peace. But the questions are: What are our soldiers doing to help 
impact the governance of Afghanistan? The governance that requires the 
fighting of corruption; the governance to fight for freedom and for 
human rights and the right to worship; governance to establish schools 
for the girls and boys and allow girls and boys to go.

Yes, we need nation building, but not with our soldiers out walking 
step by step trying to bypass IEDs, many times missing it and losing 
arms and legs and eyes. This is the time to give the President, who did 
do the right thing, who deliberated and who took time and responded to 
his generals--we salute him for that. But now is the time for the 
United States Congress and the constitutional separation of the 
branches of government to be able to assess whether or not this 
particular conflict must continue and whether there is a benefit to the 
American people.

I would make the argument there is much to do. There is much to do in 
cleaning up Afghanistan. There is much to do in providing for the 
opportunity of governance. We can do that in a way that will support 
the State Department with support staff from the military. And if there 
is a need to defend the United States, I have no doubt that the brave 
men and women of the United States military will stand at attention and 
will rise to the occasion. Now we owe their families,


these young men and women, 165,000 who came home from Iraq, many of 
whom are suffering from posttraumatic disorder.