# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `70c5f11be5c25083caf6296abeb0bf50`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 11 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, on a related issue, recent reports indicate 
the Government of Iraq is now in negotiations with five Western oil 
companies for no-bid ''technical service'' contracts at existing oil 
fields. When


asked about these contracts on June 19, 2008, Secretary Rice said:




 The United States Government has stayed absolutely out of 


 the matter of the awarding of Iraqi oil contracts. It's a 


 private sector matter.


However, subsequent reports indicate that State Department employees 
advised the Iraqi Government on the drafting of these technical service 
contracts. These reports were followed on July 1 with news that Iraq 
intends to award contracts to develop six oil fields and two natural 
gas fields, with or without the passage of national hydrocarbon 
legislation.

These contracts would seem to circumvent the national hydrocarbon 
legislation currently under consideration in Iraq and could risk 
further complicating what are already delicate negotiations. I am 
concerned by the administration's silence on these contracts and the 
message our reported involvement in drafting the no-bid technical 
service contracts sends to the Iraqi Government about the importance of 
passing national hydrocarbon legislation. I am sending a letter to 
Stephen Hadley today asking him about U.S. policy with regard to these 
service and development contracts and expressing my concern that such 
contracts might harm negotiations on national hydrocarbon legislation. 
I ask unanimous consent that this letter also be printed in the Record.