# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `70cac1c6ccf9985701b0bdb3f757bf61`
`Mr. OBEY — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to read excerpts from a letter about Iraq. 
It reads as follows:

''I am deeply concerned about Iraq. The task you have given me is 
becoming really impossible . . . incompetent Arab officials are 
disturbing some of the provinces in failing to collect revenue. We have 
overpaid almost half a million [dollars] on last year's account, which 
it is almost certain Iraq will not be able to pay this year, thus 
entailing a Supplementary Estimate in regard to a matter never 
sanctioned by [the legislative body]; a further deficit, in spite of 
large economies, is nearly certain this year on the civil expenses 
owing to the drop in revenue. I have had to maintain . . . troops at 
Mosul all through the year in consequence of the Angora quarrel: This 
has upset the programme of reliefs and will certainly lead to further 
expenditures . . . In my own heart, I do not see what we are getting 
out of it.

''I think we should now put definitely . . . to the Constituent 
Assembly the position that, unless they beg us to stay and stay on our 
own terms in regard to efficient control, we shall actually evacuate 
before the close of the financial year. I would put this issue in the 
most brutal way, and if they are not prepared to urge us to stay and to 
cooperate in every manner, I would actually clear out.

''Surveying all the above, I think I must ask you for definite 
guidance at this stage as to what you wish and what you are prepared to 
do. The victories of the [opposition] will increase our difficulties 
throughout the [region]. At present, we are paying . . . millions a 
year for the privilege of living on an ungrateful volcano out of which 
we are in no circumstances to get anything worth having.''

That is a letter written by Winston Churchill in 1922 to David Lloyd 
George. I would suggest not very much has changed since then.

I do not know if the timetable in this bill is exactly the correct 
timetable or not. What I do know is that I intend to vote for every 
responsible action that I can take that will increase pressure on this 
administration and on the government of Iraq and the politicians of 
Iraq so that they both finally understand there must be a change in 
policy; there must be a recognition that our troops do not have the 
capacity to produce the political compromises that are necessary to end 
this carnage. That power is only in the hands of American politicians 
and Iraqi politicians. It is about time we get about the business of 
using it and insisting that the Iraqis use it.

I would urge support for this proposition.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.