# None
## `70d1bc8cc2b83940878d2c7973cbeac1`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 16 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 734, expressing the sense of House of Representatives 
regarding the withholding of information relating to corruption in 
Iraq, introduced by my distinguished colleague from California, 
Representative Henry Waxman.
This important legislation recognizes the 
incongruities amongst reporting on the situation in Iraq and seeks to 
hold the Government accountable for the provision of and access to 
accurate and consistent information.

This resolution expresses the sense of the House that the State 
Department is misusing the national security classification process to 
withhold from the American people information about widespread and 
increasing corruption within the Government of Iraq. This misuse 
includes the retroactive classification of documents and directions to 
employees not to answer questions in an open forum that calls for 
''broad statements/assessments which judge or characterize the quality 
of Iraqi governance or the ability/determination of the Iraqi 
government to deal with corruption, including allegations that 
investigations were thwarted/stifled for political reasons.''

Mr. Speaker, the American people have poured vast amounts of 
resources and treasure into the misguided war in Iraq. According to the 
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, CBO, the U.S. is spending an 
estimated $10 billion per month in Iraq. This $10 billion a month 
translates into $329,670,330 per day, $13,736,264 per hour, $228,938 
per minute, and $3,816 per second. For this huge sum of money, we could 
have repaired the more than


70,000 bridges across America rated structurally deficient ($188 
billion), potentially averting the tragedy that occurred August 1st in 
Minneapolis, MN. We could have rebuilt the levees in New Orleans ($50 
billion), protecting that City from future hurricanes that could bring 
Katrina-like destruction upon the City. We could have provided all U.S. 
public safety officials with interoperable communication equipment ($10 
billion), allowing them to effectively communicate in the event of an 
emergency, and we could have paid for screening all air cargo on 
passenger planes for the next 10 years ($3.6 billion). And, we could 
have enrolled 1.4 million additional children in Head Start programs 
($10 billion). Instead of funding increased death and destruction in 
Iraq, we could have spent hard-earned taxpayer dollars on important 
progress here at home.

Given the enormous amount of resources involved, coupled with the 
catastrophic costs in human lives, we would certainly expect adequate 
oversight and management of U.S. funds and military supplies. We would 
expect clear records of exactly where those $10 billion a month is 
going, and to whom it is being given. And yet, the GAO reports that the 
Pentagon has lost track of over 190,000 weapons, given to Iraqis, 
particularly in 2004 and 2005. The report's author stated that the U.S. 
military does not know what happened to 30 percent of the weapons the 
United States distributed to Iraqi forces from 2004 through early this 
year as part of an effort to train and equip the troops. These weapons 
could be used to kill our American troops.

Americans who are footing this enormous bill deserve real answers 
about where their money is going. Recent indications have suggested 
that it is not being well spent. The recently released Government 
Accountability Office report on Iraqi progress toward the 18 
legislative, economic, and security benchmarks indicated that only 
three of these benchmarks have been met by the Maliki government. 
Despite the surge, despite increasing U.S. military involvement, the 
Iraqi Government has not made substantial progress toward stabilizing 
their country. The over 3,750 U.S. casualties and the $3,816 per second 
we are spending in Iraq have not bought peace or security. Mr. Speaker, 
the time has long passed for the Iraqi Government to step up to take 
control of their own nation.

However, as long as corruption remains endemic in Iraq, the 
government will find it difficult, if not impossible, to address the 
ongoing insurgency and to successfully achieve stability in Iraq. Mr. 
Speaker, leading experts have testified to the widespread corruption of 
the Iraqi Government, and that this problem continues to threaten our 
mission in Iraq as long as it's not effectively addressed. According to 
Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, 
corruption in Iraq is ''a second insurgency'' that ''stymies the 
construction and maintenance of Iraq's infrastructure, deprives people 
of goods and services, reduces confidence in public institutions, and 
potentially aids insurgent groups reportedly funded by graft derived 
from oil smuggling or embezzlement.'' The Comptroller General of the 
United States, David Walker, agreed, testifying that ''widespread 
corruption undermines efforts to develop the government's capacity by 
robbing it of needed resources, some of which are used to fund the 
insurgency.''


The State Department must answer questions about the extent of 
corruption in the government of Iraq, and how this corruption is 
undermining both our governments' abilities to successfully end the 
insurgency. Instead, however, on September 25, 2007, the State 
Department instructed officials not to answer questions in an open 
setting that asks for ''broad statements/assessments which judge or 
characterize the quality of Iraqi governance or the ability/
determination of the Iraqi government to deal with corruption, 
including allegations that investigations were thwarted/stifled for 
political reasons.'' On top of this, the State Department retroactively 
classified portions of a report on Iraqi corruption previously released 
by Comptroller General Walker.

In order to emerge successfully from our war in Iraq, we must be able 
to understand the situation on the ground and have access to documents 
and information that will allow our troops and fund to go where they 
are most needed. While the administration has put forward in a myriad 
of reports a sunny picture of the situation in Iraq emphasizing the 
progress of a few over the majority.

This legislation is so significant because it addresses the 
corruption, within both the Iraqi and the United States Government, 
which have allowed for such a skewed perception of the reality in Iraq. 
This legislation illuminates the active work of the State Department in 
masking information on Iraq from public view. In order for this 
Congress to do its duty and protect its citizens, both at home and 
serving in our military overseas, it must be able to see what it is 
that its funds and soldiers are supporting overseas. Voices of dissent 
and honesty must be heard. We cannot continue to provide open-ended 
funding and protection for a government which has failed in its mission 
to be transparent and based in integrity.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve more. The men and women who 
have fallen in this war due to this endemic lack of information deserve 
more. I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
legislation.