---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `70d29f5013ae4284a789284b224673f9`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I rise to express my strong 
opposition to the Reid resolution, S.J. Res. 9.

This is a dangerous piece of legislation. It is constitutionally 
dubious, and it would authorize a scattered band of Senators to 
literally tie the hands of the Commander in Chief at a moment of 
decisive importance in the fight


against terrorism in Iraq. I would never doubt the patriotism of my 
colleagues across the aisle, but I have become increasingly troubled 
over the last few weeks as this debate has taken shape.

When the President prepared a solution to the growing violence in 
Baghdad, he had good reason to expect the support of at least some of 
our friends on the other side of the aisle. The democratic whip, 
Senator Durbin, said in late December:




 If we need initially some troops in Baghdad to quiet the 


 situation, to make it more peaceful so that our soldiers 


 start coming home, then I would accept it.


That is the assistant Democratic leader not years ago but 3 months 
ago. Yet as details of the President's proposal to do so became clear, 
our friends on the other side circled the wagons, and Senator Durbin 
got in line. Just 2 weeks--2 weeks--after saying he would support 
reinforcements as a way of stabilizing Iraq, the Senator from Illinois 
said:




 The proposed surge in troops is a sad, ominous echo of 


 something we have lived through in this country.


Then later on that day he added:




 I don't believe that a surge is the answer to our challenge 


 in Iraq.


That is 2 weeks after announcing that it might be a good idea. Would 
our friend from Illinois have felt the same way if one of his 
Democratic colleagues had proposed the surge? Increasingly, the 
troubling answer to this question appears to be yes. Indeed, it is 
increasingly clear that the only principle guiding our colleagues on 
the other side is this: If the President proposed it, we oppose it. 
This is a bad principle in good times. It is an outrageous principle in 
times of war.

Two months after many Democrats said they would support a surge in 
troops if it meant stabilizing Baghdad, and incredibly 1 month after 
sending General Petraeus on his mission to do so, Democrats are now 
calling for the very thing they have consistently opposed: setting a 
timetable for withdrawal. This is beyond silly. It is a chaotic 
embarrassment that threatens to shake the confidence of our commanders 
and of our troops, and to embolden an enemy that predicted and longed 
for nothing less. Of course, at some point it is not enough to simply 
say: If the President proposed it, we oppose it. The principle begs for 
a counterproposal: What would the Democrats propose instead? We all saw 
the answer: Seventeen different proposals, many of which contradicting 
the last, and then finally this, a proposal everyone could get behind, 
a proposal that sets a date certain for America's withdrawal from Iraq.

This resolution is a clear statement of retreat from the support that 
the Senate recently gave to General Petraeus; as I have said, its 
passage would be absolutely fatal to our mission in Iraq.

Senator Clinton put it well. She said:




 I don't believe it's smart to set a date for withdrawal. I 


 don't think you should ever--ever--telegraph your intentions 


 to the enemy so they can await you.


That was Senator Clinton. Well, ''ever'' is here, and our friends on 
the other side of the aisle apparently now think it is a good idea to 
telegraph our intentions to the enemy. Osama bin Laden and his 
followers have repeatedly said that the United States does not have the 
stomach for a long fight. Passage of this resolution will prove Osama 
bin Laden, regretfully, was right. This is the vote he has been waiting 
for.

Setting a date certain for withdrawal will please a vocal group of 
Democratic Presidential primary voters, but it would discourage many 
others, including many Democrats, who agree that timetables are foolish 
and dangerous. More importantly, it would discourage our own troops--
and this is the most important part about this--who wonder whether we 
truly support their mission, and it will discourage our allies and the 
millions of brave Iraqi men and women who have dared to stand with 
America in this fight.

I will proudly vote against a resolution that sets a timetable that 
actually announces the date for our withdrawal from Iraq. I will do so 
for the same reason that many prominent Democrats opposed it up until 
the day President Bush announced his plan for securing Baghdad 2 months 
ago.

Republicans have a message for our allies and for our troops, and it 
is this: We will continue to fight a timetable for withdrawal that has 
no connection to events or circumstances on the ground. We will give 
General Petraeus's mission a chance to succeed. We are proud of the 
work the general has done, and we stand with him until the job is done. 
We will send this message today when we vote in favor of the Gregg 
resolution. This resolution pledges us to support the troops and their 
mission. The Republicans proposed a month ago that we be allowed a vote 
on this resolution, but we were denied. We are being allowed that vote 
today, and just as proudly as we will vote against S.J. Res. 9, we will 
vote in favor of the Gregg resolution.

In one sense, this debate has been academic. Senators will have a 
chance to show their support for the mission in Iraq when we vote on 
the supplemental appropriations bill later this month. That is the bill 
that matters. That is the one that funds the operation in Iraq. But in 
another sense, this debate was worthwhile because it exposed the 
principle that appears to guide the opposition: If the President 
proposed it, we will oppose it. This is no principle at all; it is pure 
politics. It is unworthy in good times. It is shameful at a time of 
war.

Meanwhile, the fighting in Iraq continues, and General Petraeus's 
mission is showing early signs of success. We are told that bomb deaths 
are down one-third in Baghdad since the new plan took effect last 
month. Execution-style slayings are down by nearly half. Traffic has 
returned to the once empty Baghdad streets.

No one is foolish enough to say this will last. This is not a 
prediction, but it is a sign of hope, the kind of sign that everyone in 
this country--Democrat and Republican--has been waiting for. We in this 
Chamber have a choice: We can fan this flame or we can smother it. By 
voting on a timetable for withdrawal, we are very decidedly doing the 
latter. Republicans take the hopeful path today.

Madam President, how much time do I have remaining?