---
---

# HOMES FOR HEROES ACT OF 2009
## `70e0845c8de672a748b98e25c9f80ffa`
`Mrs. CAPITO — 16 June 2009`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr. Green, for his 
passion and his devotion to this bill, Homes for Heroes Act, as he has 
been shepherding this now for several Congresses. I appreciate his 
support, and I want to lend my support as well.

As we know, the Iraq and Afghanistan wars have placed new pressures 
on veterans services and housing. The Department of Veterans Affairs 
estimates that it has served approximately 916 returning veterans in 
its homeless programs and has identified over 2,900 more as being at 
risk of homelessness. The Congressional Research Service, in its report 
entitled ''Veterans and Homelessness,'' explains why both male and 
female veterans are overrepresented in the homeless population.

This country simply must do a better job of providing for our 
veterans. For this reason, I rise in strong support of H.R. 403, the 
Homes for Heroes Act of 2009.

As my colleague explained, this legislation will help to expand the 
supply of housing for very low-income veterans and increase the number 
of vouchers for homeless veterans. It establishes a Special Assistant 
for Veteran Affairs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
to ensure veterans receive proper access to HUD's housing assistance 
programs, coordinate all HUD programs and activities pertaining to 
veterans, and would act as a liaison between HUD and the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.

In an effort to expand the supply of veterans housing, the bill 
authorizes appropriations for housing assistance for very low-income 
and homeless veterans. A very low-income veteran family has an income 
not exceeding 50 percent of an area's median income. A $200 million 
authorization would provide capital advances and planning grants to 
private nonprofits and consumer cooperatives for the construction and 
rehabilitation of permanent supportive


housing for very low-income veterans. The $200 million authorization 
may also be used for project rental assistance.



The bill also authorizes appropriations necessary to provide 20,000 
additional housing choice vouchers for homeless veterans for fiscal 
year 2009 and each year thereafter.

Other provisions in the bill include the exclusion of veterans 
benefits amounts from rental subsidy calculations for all federally 
funded housing programs and an authorization of $1 million in technical 
assistance grants to nonprofits who provide veterans housing or provide 
assistance to veterans seeking housing.

All in all this bill, I believe, will help to address an area or an 
issue of homelessness in our veterans population, one that we must not 
allow to continue. H.R. 403 is similar to H.R. 3329, which passed the 
House in the 110th Congress by a vote of 412-9.

I urge my colleagues' support.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.