---
---

# ECONOMIC STIMULUS ACT OF 2008
## `70e152189239125a70cb020dd212fe54`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. I begin, appropriate to this bill, on a 
note of bipartisanship. My counterpart on the Financial Services 
Committee said we must reduce spending, and I agree. And we will have a 
chance this year to reduce the most wasteful drain on our economy 
imaginable, the war in Iraq, $100 billion a year, far more than the 
excess in any other program. So I hope the American people this year 
will heed his view and we will put in place a policy that will save us 
$1 trillion over the next 10 years if the wishes of some to stay in 
Iraq are maintained.

Secondly, let me reinforce what the chairman said. It was in late 
November of last year that Speaker Pelosi urged us to begin thinking 
about the economy and called together a group of economists, labor 
leaders, and business leaders. And she took the lead and more than 
anyone else is responsible for the fact that we are confounding the 
cynics by acting so quickly and responsibly today.

Lastly, on the housing piece. What we have is a private housing 
market that has gotten itself into a terrible jam. And part of this 
bill is to use public and quasi-public entities, entities created by 
the Federal Government, to go to the aid of the private market. The 
private market has stopped making loans for houses above a certain 
level because of, as my friend from Alabama said, a lack of confidence. 
What we do today is to empower the Federal agency, the FHA, to help 
untangle that with a higher loan limit. And those two creations of the 
Congress, quasi-public/private Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we here 
today send the public sector to the rescue of a mortgage market at the 
upper end that can't function on its own.

But let me say this: there has been an argument that we should not 
have done that without further structural reform in those two entities. 
I have agreed to those limits and, in fact, pushed for them being 
raised now because we're in an economic crisis and we need a short-term 
response.

But I am committed, and I know my friend from Alabama joins me in 
this, we will not agree to any further extension of those loan limits 
after the expiration date of December of this year unless we are able 
to accompany them with structural reform. And let me say, I see my 
friend nodding, that's our commitment.

So we are committed. And the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee 
and I and Members are now talking about the FHA bill. We will not, and 
let me give this commitment, we will not bring out of our committee an 
increase in the time at which the jumbo loans can be paid for until we 
have comprehensive reform.

Given that, we have here a reasonable package. We get money out, 
thanks to the Speaker's insistence on this bipartisan framework, to 
precisely the people who will spend it, which is what we need now. And 
we send the FHA and Fannie and Freddie in a responsible way to the aid 
of the private market because private sector-public sector cooperation 
is the foundation of our economy.