# ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `70e90c275825a5fd67b970f2a4c15348`
`Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin — 19 June 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Westmoreland amendment and in 
opposition of the underlying bill.

Let's just review the numbers for a moment. This Energy and Water 
appropriation bill not only exceeds the President's request; it also 
increases spending by twice the rate of inflation. Under the Democrat 
budget resolution, nonemergency spending will increase by $81.4 billion 
compared to 2007, growing more than 9 percent, or triple the rate of 
inflation. That is triple the rate of our constituents', the American 
taxpayers', ability to pay for these bills. This is on top of the $6 
billion that was already spent in the current year omnibus, and the $17 
billion in non-war emergency spending that was added to the Iraq war 
supplemental.

But with this particular bill, here are my concerns: number one, it 
further opens the spigot on new spending. This is $1.1 billion above 
the President's request and $1.3 billion above the 2007 enacted levels. 
Again, far in excess of the rate of inflation.

Number two, it adds a lot of green for uncertain returns. The 
President requested $1.2 billion for renewable and energy efficiency 
under the Advanced Energy Initiative and the Reducing U.S. Dependence 
on Imported Energy Sources. This bill increases spending by 50 percent, 
yet it is extremely unclear whether this enormous boost in spending 
will actually do anything to achieve energy independence.

This bill also exploits the Democrats' pre-funding maneuver. This was 
wrong when Republicans did it. It is wrong when Democrats do it. Both 
parties have been doing these pre-funding maneuvers. This is basically 
taking from next year's bill.

I think the fact that they have already pre-funded $1.6 billion for 
FY 2008 Corps of Engineers spending frees up room under the cap so they 
can spend more money. So you have about a $1.8 billion smoke-and-
mirrors pre-funding mechanism that allows them to spend even more 
money. That brings the total on top of the $1.3 billion to almost $3 
billion over last year's enacted levels.

Now, $3 billion in an almost $3 trillion budget, people ask why 
should it matter. Why should we talk about these things. Here is why, 
Mr. Chairman, this matters: it starts one step at a time.

If you want to be fiscally conservative, if you want to be fiscally 
disciplined and watch the way we spend taxpayer dollars, we have to do 
it at every stage in the process. We will have to watch how we spend 
our taxpayer dollars.

The big problem I have with this budget resolution that is guiding 
this process, the current budget resolution leads to the largest tax 
increase in American history. Why on Earth would we want to pass the 
largest tax increase in American history at a time when our economy 
needs more jobs?

The tax cuts that occurred in 2003 created an unprecedented 7.9 
million new jobs. It gave us 3 years of double-digit revenue growth, 
which helped us cut the deficit by more than 50 percent. And the key to 
reducing the deficit further is not increasing taxes or increasing 
spending. It is controlling spending.

That is the different vision between our two parties. We believe we 
need to balance the budget. The Democrat budget, the Democratic Party 
budget, does that too. They propose a balanced budget as well. They 
propose a balanced budget at this level of taxing and spending, whereas 
we propose a balanced budget at this lower level of taxing and 
spending, because we fundamentally believe that people ought to be able 
to keep more of their own money in their own pocket.

We don't measure success of a nation by measuring how much more money 
we spend in Washington. We measure success of a nation by how free 
people are in their own lives and how they have an ability to prosper 
and grow and how jobs and opportunities are being created in America. 
That is what we believe measures success.

So if we pass budgets that simply call for all this new spending, if 
we pass budgets which call for 23 reserve funds to spend $190 billion, 
in addition to what this budget right here does, what we are simply 
doing is saying we are going to tax people more, and then we are going 
to tax them more again, and we are going to spend that money.

That takes freedom and liberty away from taxpayers, away from 
individuals. That starves prosperity in America; it doesn't preserve 
prosperity in America. And that is why at every stage in this 
appropriations process, at every stage in this budget process we have 
to be mindful on how much money we are spending.

We are spending more than twice the rate of inflation in this bill. 
We are spending three times the rate of inflation on all of these 
appropriations bills. And that is far too much, Mr. Chairman. That is 
why I urge passage of the Westmoreland amendment and defeat of the 
underlying bill.