# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `70fe604ad0a0e5e9259030afefd39fe0`
`Mr. BIDEN — 5 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I rise today to submit a Senate resolution 
designating March 8, 2007, as International Women's Day. Since 1911, 
International Women's Day has provided a chance for people all over the 
world to pause and observe the remarkable steps that women have made in 
their fight for equality and recommit themselves to dosing lingering 
gender disparities. I am particularly pleased that I am joined by a 
tremendous group of women who are original co-sponsors of today's 
measure, Senators Boxer, Cantwell, Clinton, Feinstein, Klobuchar, 
Landrieu, Mikulski, Murray and Stabenow. These nine senators are living 
testament to the progress and promise of women's achievements. They are 
trailblazers and role models to whom we owe a great deal of gratitude.

Besides the steady increase in the number of women senators, I need 
only look down the hallway to see another sign of extraordinary 
progress in 2007--the first ever woman Speaker of House, Representative 
Nancy Pelosi. Similar electoral accomplishments can be found in other 
countries. For instance, Michelle Bachelet became the first female 
President of Chile and Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf became first female 
President in Liberia in the history of Africa. In 2005, Angela Merkel 
became the first female Chancellor of Germany.

Of course, participation in the political process is but one marker 
of women's empowerment and equal footing. Access to education, economic 
security, employment nondiscrimination, eradication of poverty, 
equality before the law, access to HIV/AIDS prevention and other health 
care services, and freedom from gender-based violence, including human 
trafficking--these are all critical benchmarks of women's progress.

An essential component to achieving gender equality is ending 
violence against women--an issue about which I care deeply. The time is 
now to concentrate our energies on efforts to end domestic and sexual 
violence abroad.


Last year Congress passed the Violence Against Women Act of 2005, an 
accomplishment that shows real consensus and momentum to end gender-
based violence and heal America's families. The United Nations and the 
World Health Organizations have released ground-breaking studies on the 
prevalence and impact of domestic violence globally. Finally, 
international service organizations are finding that their efforts to 
help women in the field, be it opening the school doors to girls or 
getting HIV/AIDS medicine to young women, are ultimately ineffectual if 
we do not help these same women escape from violent homes.

Furthermore, gender-based violence is pervasive in conflicts around 
the globe. In Darfur, women are systematically raped as a weapon of 
war. In Afghanistan, Safia Ama Jan, became the first female 
assassinated since the fall of the Taliban. Just last week, two Iraqi 
women accused the Iraqi national security forces of gang-raping them in 
Baghdad headquarters. This year's theme for International Women's Day 
is ''Ending Impunity for Violence Against Women and Girls''--a fitting 
mandate for all of us.

I am working on legislative measures to fight the global epidemic of 
gender-based violence. In addition, International Women's Day is also a 
perfect opportunity for the Administration to review its position and 
support ratification of the International Women's Rights Treaty 
(formally known as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW)). I whole heartedly support this 
human rights treaty that brings together in one document women's 
economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights and is an 
important tool for women rights advocates around the globe.

I've said it before, but it bears repeating: Ending the systemic 
discrimination of women is not just a woman's issue, it is not just the 
responsibility of heads of state or Nobel Peace Prize winners, it is 
everyone's moral responsibility. You cannot build peace and you cannot 
build democracy when half of the population is not free. And no country 
can reach its full potential when women are not allowed to fully 
contribute. Spreading democracy must mean empowering women, ending 
domestic and sexual violence and holding abusers fully accountable. I 
urge my colleagues to join our Resolution to Commemorate International 
Women's Day on March 8th and thank advocates everywhere who work day in 
and day out I to improve women's lives.
