---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `7106d39c867b45437ca992bb17eec046`
`Mr. CRAIG — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, let me first of all thank the chairman and 
the ranking member for bringing this legislation to the floor and for 
including in it the wounded warrior amendment. Let me also thank the 
senior Senator from Arizona for his leadership on what has been a 
critical and important issue for our country and, at best and at worst, 
very divisive. I have not seen him step back one moment from the 
defense of our men and women in uniform and the mission they are 
conducting in Iraq, and I thank Senator McCain for that kind of 
leadership. It is tremendously important for our country that we have 
that quality of leadership, knowledge, and understanding; to be able 
not only to travel there and understand but to come back to this 
country and articulate it.

I must also say I was disappointed when the Senator from Missouri 
talked about lives squandered in Iraq. I am sorry, but every young 
Idahoan who has died in Iraq was not a life squandered. To me, that 
young man or woman was a hero in defense of their Nation, in defense of 
a nation trying to be free, and an expression from our Nation of that; 
for preserving for this generation of Americans a sense of freedom and 
independence in a very difficult world. Lives squandered? I am sorry, I 
choose other words. The difference between a life squandered and that 
of an American hero is a distinct difference.

Today, we are here to talk about wounded warriors. We are also here 
to talk about something my chairman of the VA Committee, Danny Akaka, 
and I have brought forward in an amendment that will be considered and, 
we hope, handled by the chairman and the ranking member and our whole 
Senate in a unanimous way to deal with traumatic brain injury 
improvements and transitional benefits that I and Senator Akaka and all 
our colleagues have worked on for those who are in the active service 
and about to become veterans.


Certainly, the Presiding Officer, now serving on the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee, has openly participated with us in making sure the 
word ''seamless transition'' is not just something in our vocabulary, 
but it is a reality of moving men and women from active service into a 
veteran status; and for those who were injured and are eligible for 
benefits, to make sure that transition is, in fact, seamless.

I would like to speak for a moment on an amendment we are offering 
that deals with that. Senator Akaka a few days ago laid out a number of 
provisions that are in this amendment and was on the floor earlier to 
speak to it, and I wish to address some of those on the floor at this 
moment but not to travel that path again.

First, I am proud of the comprehensive nature of the language dealing 
with those suffering from traumatic brain injury in this amendment. 
Enactment of these provisions will ensure that injured servicemembers, 
veterans, and their families will receive a detailed plan from a VA 
treatment team


outlining their care and a rehabilitation program. They can be certain 
the plan will be reviewed and updated often, even at their request.

They will benefit from new investments in research into mild, 
moderate, and serious traumatic brain injury. Most important to me, 
they will have the comfort of knowing the Secretary can provide TBI 
care in a private, non-VA facility anytime the Secretary determines 
that doing so would be optimal to the recovery and rehabilitation of a 
patient.

Through time and hearings, we have discovered in the VA Committee 
that while the Veterans' Administration and their health care delivery 
systems are, by the nature of what they do, the best in the country, 
with some of the cutting-edge technology that is available in the 
private sector, we are not yet up to speed in the VA public sector. So 
giving the Secretary this flexibility and option says to our veteran, 
who may well be suffering from TBI: You are going to get the best that 
is available, private or public, at the time you need it. That is the 
way it ought to be.

In other words, whenever it is in the best interest of the patient's 
recovery, then the VA can purchase private care until that care may be 
available within the system itself.

These are a few of the very important provisions in this amendment 
that I believe will make the care and treatment of our wounded 
servicemembers and veterans even better.

I would also like to point out our actions with this amendment 
reflect a pledge we made a few months ago when the Veterans' Committee 
and the Armed Services Committee held a joint hearing to receive 
testimony on needed changes to the transition programs of health care 
benefits. At that time, many of us stated our intention to make a good-
faith effort to work on these issues under our respective committees' 
jurisdictions and to merge them back together again at the earliest 
possible opportunity. Senator Akaka and Senator Levin certainly were 
good to their word as we worked to bring those together, and that is 
exactly what is reflected in these amendments that are currently before 
the Senate and will be when we bring the other amendment forward. So I 
am very proud to tell the Senate that both committees have done their 
work and lived up to their bargain.

I wish to compliment the Senators from Michigan and Arizona, as I did 
earlier, for the work they have done on the Armed Services Committee in 
producing the wounded warrior bill that is now pending to this 
authorization bill as amendment No. 2019. That bill, coupled with the 
amendment Senator Akaka and I are now offering, will provide a 
comprehensive approach to improving the benefits and services of those 
who are severely injured in service and those who need transitional 
assistance.

Finally, I also think this amendment is very important because it 
demonstrates Congress can break down the walls of jurisdiction and 
territory and do the right thing at the right time for the right 
people. In this case, it is America's brave young men and women who are 
standing in harm's way, and as a result of their bravery and their 
heroism may sustain some level of injury.

I and other Senators have been very critical of the bureaucratic 
roadblocks we oftentimes see in DOD or the VA. But I must tell you we 
see a merging now and a breaking down of those barriers and roadblocks 
that ought to be done when we find those difficulties arising. So I 
believe that if we are going to demand these two agencies break down 
their walls of territory and jurisdiction, then we can demonstrate the 
same. These amendments recognize and demonstrate that. I am proud we 
are doing so today.

I wish to thank, again, Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain for 
their support throughout the process, and I wish to thank Chairman 
Akaka for his leadership. I also wish to compliment the staff of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee--Gary Leeling, Dick Walsh, and Diana 
Tabler--for working in a collegial way with our staffs on the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee to make all of this effort very possible in the way 
that it is being presented on the floor.

Mr. President, to my colleagues, the chairman and the ranking member, 
I appreciate the opportunity to come speak on these critical issues, 
and once again the cooperation between the VA Committee and their 
staffs, and the Armed Services Committee and their staffs, I think, is 
a model of how we get things done in the appropriate way and in the 
timely way necessary.

I yield the floor.