# None
## `7106e89aadbaf254e12cb35836b28ae4`
`Ms. COLLINS â€” 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of amendment 
No. 5276 to the National Defense Authorization Act, an amendment that 
would establish a government-wide Contingency Contracting Corps.

Through numerous hearings and investigations, the Senate Homeland 
Security Committee has documented many costly failures in contracting 
and acquisition management related to Federal operations following 
Hurricane Katrina and in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction, other IGs, and the Government 
Accountability Office have also reported on serious problems in Federal 
contracting. Many of these well-documented problems might have been 
avoided or mitigated if the government had a reserve cadre of skilled 
acquisition professionals who could be dispatched to areas in urgent 
need to assist with procurement and contract-management tasks.

Last year, I introduced S. 680, the Accountability in Government 
Contracting Act of 2007, with Senators Lieberman, Carper, Coleman, and 
McCaskill as original cosponsors. The Senate passed this bill 
unanimously last November 7, including a title that would establish a 
government-wide Contingency Contracting Corps. Unfortunately, House 
leaders have failed to take up our unanimously passed bill.

Just a few days before the Senate action, the Army released the 
report of a special commission on procurement headed by former Under 
Secretary of Defense Jacques Gansler. The Gansler Report noted that 
while contracting workload had increased by 350 percent since 1995, the 
Army's contract-oversight staff had declined by almost 50 percent. The 
report's recommendations for more people, better training, 
organizational reform, and other improvements offer us a case study of 
the challenges facing the Federal acquisition process.

''First and most important is the people,'' Dr. Gansler said while 
presenting his report. He was right, and that truth is at the core of 
the amendment that Senator Lieberman and I now offer.

The need for a Contingency Contracting Corps is urgent. The Federal 
Government purchases more than $440 billion of goods and services each 
year. Some of these purchases are pursuant to contracts issued under 
the stress and urgency of military operations or an emergency response.



Purchasing on such a prodigious scale and across a vast array of 
departments and programs can create abundant opportunities for fraud, 
waste, and abuse. And doing so under the stress of military or 
disaster-recovery operations without sufficient staff skilled in 
working in those conditions can multiply the potential for trouble.

Unfortunately, our government moved into the 21st century with 22 
percent fewer Federal civilian acquisition personnel than it had at the 
start of the 1990s. And as noted, the decline in the DOD acquisition 
workforce was even more pronounced.

We have seen that the urgent demands of natural disasters, a 
terrorist attack, or active military operations can overwhelm any 
agency's acquisition workforce. This amendment would provide the 
equivalent of a rapid-reaction force or strike team to ensure that 
emergency acquisition activities are performed swiftly, effectively, 
and economically.

The Corps would draw on volunteers from civilian and uniformed 
Federal-acquisition professionals. It would be managed by the OFPP 
Administrator. The Administrator would be authorized to prescribe 
additional training and determine when the Corps would be deployed. Any 
deployments would be made in consultation with the heads of the 
affected agencies, and in the case of military or civilian DOD 
employees, with the concurrence of the Defense Department.

The Contingency Contracting Corps is not a substitute for the many 
other reforms needed to improve government-wide acquisition, but it can 
help our Nation deal with urgent demands by temporarily reallocating 
trained acquisition staff from their regular duties to areas of 
pressing need. The Corps would help guard against the wasteful and 
excessive spending that too often occurs in exigent circumstances.

I urge my colleagues to adopt this much-needed, carefully 
constructed, and bipartisan amendment.

Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of amendment No. 5277 to 
the National Defense Authorization Act, an amendment that will improve 
stewardship of taxpayer dollars while promoting more transparency and 
competition in the procurement of goods and services by our government. 
Senator Lieberman, chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs Committee, joins me in sponsoring this amendment.

Our amendment, the Accountability in Government Contracting Act, is a 
bipartisan response to contracting problems identified by the Homeland 
Security Committee that pose increasing dangers of waste, fraud, and 
abuse as Federal contracting continues to grow.

The amendment consists of provisions that passed the Senate 
unanimously last November as part of S. 680. Many of that bill's 
provisions were included in last year's defense authorization. The 
remaining provisions are offered in this amendment, with modifications 
based on discussions with other members of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee.

Joining Senator Lieberman and me in this effort are Senators Coleman, 
Carper, Akaka, McCaskill, and Tester.

The Federal Government purchases about $440 billion in goods and 
services each year. The rising costs of military operations, natural 
disasters, homeland security precautions, and other vital programs will 
drive those expenditures to even higher levels in the years ahead.

This prodigious level of purchasing creates abundant opportunities 
for fraud, waste, and abuse. We have seen far too many outrageous 
failures in government contracting, such as unusable trailers for 
hurricane victims, shoddy construction of schools and clinics in 
Afghanistan, or the installation in Iraq of showers for our troops that 
pose electric-shock hazards. All of these failures and more demand 
strong steps to protect taxpayer dollars and deliver better acquisition 
outcomes.

Obstacles to improvement include personnel shortages, resource 
constraints, poor program administration, and inadequate accountability 
an transparency in the contracting process.

The resource challenges go far beyond funding, and start with a 
simple lack of trained personnel. The Federal Government moved into the 
21st century with 22 percent fewer Federal civilian acquisition 
personnel than it had at the start of the 1990s. The Department of 
Defense, which has the largest acquisition budget, has been disbursing 
enormous amounts of money to contractors since the first Gulf war, but 
saw its acquisition workforce shrink by more than 50 percent between 
1994 and 2005.

Among the current, attenuated Federal acquisition workforce, nearly 
40 percent were eligible to retire at the end of the last fiscal year. 
Meanwhile, the number and scale of federal purchases continue to rise, 
making this human-capital crisis even more dire.

Other challenges to fair, effective, and open competition and 
oversight include inadequate definition of requirements, overuse of 
letter contracts that fail to include all critical terms until after 
performance is complete, excessive tiering of subcontracts, and 
insufficient publicly available data on Federal contracts.

Our amendment offers sensible, practical reforms to address these 
problems.

A critical feature of this legislation will help recruit, retain, and 
develop an adequate Federal acquisition workforce. It establishes an 
acquisition internship program that will provide professional training 
and development for careers in Federal procurement and acquisition 
management to at least 200 college graduates per year. Another 
provision would require that government chief acquisition officers have 
extensive management experience--a requirement lacking in current law.

Our amendment also promotes more competition for government 
contracts--a positive step for both contractors and taxpayers.

Competition for government contracts helps to control costs, 
encourage innovation, and improve quality. Unfortunately, the tide has 
been running the wrong way. While the dollar volume of Federal 
contracting has nearly doubled since the year 2000, fewer than half of 
all ''contract actions''--new contracts and payments against existing 
contracts--are now subject to full and open competition, down from more 
than three-quarters in the year 2000.

Our Homeland Security Committee investigations of federal contracting 
problems in the Hurricane Katrina disaster and in our military 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan have confirmed the obvious concerns 
about this trend.

We need more competition, less sole-source contracting, and tougher 
management of Federal contracts. Our amendment mandates enhanced 
competition for each task or delivery order over the simplified 
acquisition threshold.

It further encourages competition for those orders by requiring 
Internet postings of notices of all sole-source task-or-delivery orders 
above the simplified acquisition threshold, within 14 business days 
after the award.

Another provision takes aim at abuse of interagency and enterprise-
wide contracts, which account for 40 percent of Federal contract 
spending. It requires the Office of Federal Procurement Policy to 
survey, review, and provide guidance on procedures for creating, using, 
and continuing these interagency acquisitions. This step should 
eliminate some of the redundancies that have been discovered in these 
complex arrangements--redundancies that reduce the government's 
purchasing power and waste tax dollars.

I shall briefly note some other important provisions of the 
amendment.

The amendment will rein in the practice of hastily awarding letter 
contracts missing key terms, such as price, scope or schedule, and then 
failing to supply those terms until the contractor delivers the good or 
service--thereby placing all risk of failure on the government. In Iraq 
and Katrina contracting, we saw the perils of failing to supply the 
''missing term'' promptly. For example, in July 2006, the Special 
Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction identified 194 individual 
task orders valued at $3.4 billion that were classified as 
''undefinitized contract actions.''

The government has allowed too much money and too many contract 
actions to linger in this status. The amendment corrects this flaw by 
requiring clear guidance in the Federal


Acquisition Regulation and strong justification for making such 
contracts or orders.

Contracting for Hurricane Katrina and in Iraq has also involved 
excessive tiering of subcontractors, driving up costs and complicating 
contract administration. The amendment mandates regulatory guidance for 
minimizing tiering to ensure that every layer of subcontracting adds 
value or serves a valid purpose in meeting Federal requirements.

In our committee investigation of debris removal after Hurricane 
Katrina, a disaster that required clearing away nearly 100 million 
cubic yards of debris, we found that some contracts involved five or 
six tiers of subcontractors, often with little or no apparent added 
value. This provision would put in place government-wide requirements 
to control this practice and its potential for wasting tax dollars.

Another important provision requires the OFPP to review and report on 
existing policies and to recommend needed changes to ensure that 
Federal agencies are not contracting out essential core 
responsibilities of government. The risks of such activity were made 
starkly clear in our committee's recent discovery that a contractor 
wrote parts of FEMA's request for proposals for the TOPOFF 5 emergency-
management exercise and was then allowed to bid on the contract. This 
clear conflict of interest threatened both the integrity of the 
competitive process and objective implementation of Federal policy.

The amendment also restricts the de-facto outsourcing of program-
management responsibility when a large contractor becomes a ''lead 
systems integrator'' for a multipart project and requires the OFPP to 
craft a government-wide definition of lead systems integrators.

The Accountability in Government Contracting Act combines practical, 
workable, and targeted reforms to improve a complex process that 
expends hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars every year. As the 
SIGIR said of these proposals in a Homeland Security Committee hearing 
last year, ''these kinds of reforms are exactly what will save taxpayer 
dollars ... and address very directly the problems that we have been 
experiencing in contracting in Iraq.''

My amendment will pay recurring dividends for years to come in higher 
quality proposals, in avoidance of wasteful and excessive spending, and 
in better results for our citizens. I urge my colleagues to support it.