---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2918,  LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `71111a20ef3c6993325da99850ccda7e`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 25 September 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

First of all, I don't think we need any lectures by Members of the 
other side about process. If I recall, when they were in charge here, 
continuing resolutions were a regular part of the process. If I recall 
correctly, their last year in power they did a short-term CR. That 
means they got nothing done and dumped all of their appropriations work 
on the incoming Democratic Congress, which was a daunting task, to deal 
with 2 years of appropriations. They had their chance, and I think that 
they messed it up.



The fact is that the bill before us, the conference report before us, 
is the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill, which is an important 
appropriations bill. All appropriations bills are important. I don't 
think it does anybody any good to diminish the importance of this.

This is important and it needs to be passed. I fully expect that the 
other appropriations bills will be conferenced, and we will be dealing 
with more and more conference reports in the coming weeks.

But, look, what we need to do here, Madam Speaker, is not only pass a 
conference report for the Legislative Branch Appropriations, but we 
also need to pass a continuing resolution which includes an increase in 
veterans' health care.

We have thousands and thousands of young men and women who we have 
sent to Iraq and who we have sent to Afghanistan. They deserve a first-
class health care system when they return. All veterans do. They have 
served our country with great distinction. They not only deserve the 
best health care, but they have earned it. There is an increase in this 
CR for veterans' health.