---
---

# HONORING STAFF SERGEANT DANIEL MERRIWEATHER
## `7123c09b9eab6f716c1e44ad32e772cb`
`Mr. COHEN — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a Memphis, 
Shelby County citizen who gave his life in service to our country in 
Afghanistan, Staff Sergeant Daniel Merriweather. He was the second 
soldier from Shelby County to die in Afghanistan since the beginning of 
Operation Enduring Freedom and our 12th in the Middle East since 2002. 
Staff Sergeant Merriweather, who was with the 118th Military Police 
Company, died when his convoy ran over an improvised explosive device.

He graduated from Overton High School in Memphis, Tennessee. He 
studied broadcast journalism, played football, loved sports, cowboy 
hats, boots, and country music. And you can see from his picture and 
from the reflections of his friends how much he loved life and how 
popular he was.

He wanted to serve his country, and he did so. He did two tours of 
duty, one in Afghanistan and one in Iraq. At 25 years of age, he is 
survived by his wife, Rachelle; his two children, 3-year-old Kale and 
Daniel Merriweather, Jr., just 3 months old; his parents, Pamela and 
Darryl Finnie; his sister, Adrienne; and his brother, Darryl Finnie, 
Jr.

These are the 12 soldiers who died from Shelby County, and 
unfortunately Staff Sergeant Merriweather joins that company.

Mr. Speaker, let us take a moment to honor the service and memory of 
Staff Sergeant Merriweather.

Thank you, Mr. Speaker. And thank you, Sergeant Merriweather.
