---
---

# IRAQ
## `71296e75791e65f6f68c65e63c624bd8`
`Mr. BOUSTANY — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. BOUSTANY. I thank my friend, the gentleman from Texas, for 
yielding time.

Let me start by saying, first, I want to thank our troops, our 
embassy personnel, State Department personnel and all their families 
for the sacrifices that they've dealt with as we've dealt with this 
problem in Iraq, this challenge that we're faced with.


I've come away from a trip just this past week and recognize that I 
truly believe that General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker are going to 
come forward with a very independent, unvarnished report about what's 
going on in Iraq. We're going to see what's working and what's not 
working, and I appreciate that. And I think that's going to be the most 
important report that this Congress will look at to determine how do we 
move forward; what steps should we take as a Congress with this 
situation in Iraq.

With that having been said, this past year was very difficult. We saw 
a lot of


violence. I know at the beginning of 2006, Iraq was really threatening 
to spiral out of control with violence. Some described it as anarchic 
fragmentation, which was really a very visual term for what was 
potentially going to happen in Iraq.

And when the President announced his surge strategy back in I think 
it was late December, I have to say I was very skeptical because I kept 
thinking, what's next? A surge is fine. We can get more troops in. The 
Iraq Study Group actually agrees that this could be a temporary measure 
to gain security. But what do we do following that to get political 
gains in Iraq? What can be done to help develop the economy in Iraq? 
These were the key issues to me.

Then it became clear, subsequently, that our State Department was 
working on a plan to deal with this. And it was unclear as to what 
exactly the steps were; but as things have unfolded, we have seen 
significant success over the past year.

And this was highlighted by my recent trip when I walked through the 
streets of Fallujah with three other Members of Congress. And I would 
have never thought that just even a month ago or two months ago a 
platoon of marines could even walk through the streets of Fallujah, 
much less four Members of Congress.

So as we walked through the streets, we saw shops that were open. 
Shop keepers were smiling, children were playing in the streets. There 
was a volleyball game going on on one block. Another block I saw some 
children playing soccer. There were families strolling through the 
streets and talking. And this clearly was a major change, a major 
departure from what we had seen just months ago in Fallujah.

And what we found out was that an Iraqi solution was being brought to 
bear in Fallujah, an Iraqi solution for security, which has allowed for 
security to grow throughout the city of Fallujah, creating an 
environment that's now allowing economic activity in that city.

Children are now back in school. We're seeing shops that are open, 
microlending programs are ongoing, and this is just tremendous success. 
And the hallmark of the plan that has been implemented by General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker is that you look at the circumstances 
in a particular local in Iraq, like Fallujah, or perhaps Ramadi or 
Tikrit, and work with the circumstances on the ground and make those 
institutions that are available work for the positive.

And what I mean by that is, what we have is a situation where, after 
getting security and working with the Iraqis to set up these joint 
security stations throughout the city of Fallujah, now we've got a 
provincial reconstruction team working in Fallujah. This is a team of 
civilians and military who are working on the political side of things, 
working to help build the political infrastructure from the ground up.

And now what we're seeing is tremendous success with this, with a 
sort of a grass roots movement. And I've said over and over, the most 
difficult thing is going to be to get the Iraqi central government to 
come to reconcile and to come to terms, because it's been a country 
that's been fraught with division. But it's going to be an Iraqi 
solution that will bring that together. And as this grass-root 
development happens in Fallujah, in Ramadi, in Tikrit and Mosul and 
other cities throughout Iraq and our communities throughout Iraq, we 
will see a coalescence of political activity which will put pressure on 
those central politicians to come forward. And that's part of the whole 
political process.

The Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, the Sunni Deputy Prime Minister, 
his name is Salaam as Zobadaei, told us that you can look at the fruit, 
but the fruit will not come until you grow the tree. And that was a 
very, very, precise and visual way of describing what needs to happen. 
We need to see Iraqi institutions growing from the ground up, because 
then you'll have a sustainable government. To have an Iraqi Government 
impose from the top and to try to force it down is not sustainable. So 
I'm encouraged that this plan is working. We're seeing positive signs, 
and we need to give it further time.

These provincial reconstruction teams are doing an outstanding job. 
There are some 10 or 14, I believe, just in the Baghdad and Anbar area, 
and then one in each other province. And I think our State Department 
deserves tremendous credit for working under very difficult 
circumstances and putting these provincial reconstruction teams 
together to make this sort of political grass-roots movement occur.

And on the broader diplomatic front, we now know that the Saudis are 
looking at putting an embassy into Baghdad. Recently, the French 
Foreign Minister was in Baghdad and they expressed that the French want 
to play a bigger role. We need to have continued vigorous diplomacy to 
move forward to get debt relief on the Iraqi Government. And I believe 
if we move along on the diplomatic front, as I mentioned, on continuing 
to build this grass-roots political development internally in Iraq, 
economic development with microlending programs, all because we managed 
to get security, we're going to see a successful outcome in Iraq. And I 
think in short order we should be able to draw back down on our combat 
troops and offer more of a supportive role.