---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `7129953fae0db8eae04b6f4da707644c`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I understand the pending business has 
been the legislation by Senator Feingold, Senator Reid, and Senator 
Menendez to require another report within 60 days involving the 
Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State, Secretary of Homeland 
Security, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director 
of National Intelligence. All of them are supposed to drop the war on 
terrorism they are leading and have explained to us repeatedly and in 
meticulous detail and write another report.

They keep asking for reports. They asked for a report by General 
Petraeus when we sent him to Iraq last summer. We voted overwhelmingly, 
a bipartisan vote, to send him. We were worried at the time, I have to 
admit, about how things were going in Iraq. I remember asking him: 
General Petraeus, if things don't get better, if you believe we cannot 
be successful, will you tell us? He said that he would. He also said he 
believed we could be successful if we utilized the plans and ideas and 
programs he was going to execute and was executing. He went and he came 
back and gave us a report in September. GEN Jimmy Jones, a retired 
Marine general, and 12 other participants went to the region and 
returned to give us a report, as did the Government Accountability 
Office.

We heard all those reports, and we sent General Petraeus forward and 
we said, continue on, because we were beginning by September to see 
some substantial reduction in violence in the neighborhoods in Iraq. We 
didn't know if it was permanent, how far it would go, but the trends 
were beginning, for at least a few weeks prior to his report, to look 
considerably better.

As a result of all of that, we allowed General Petraeus to continue 
with the plan as he explained to us because we evaluated that the 
strategy he was implementing was working. Since then, we continue to 
see the most miraculous, one must say, reduction in violence--60, 80, 
90 percent in some areas in the country, 60 percent nationwide 
reduction in violence. We have had circumstances where the local people 
have joined in awakening groups, or citizens groups, and have turned 
against al-Qaida. Some of the people had been working with al-Qaida, 
frankly, but they realized this was a violent, vicious, dominating 
group with whom they had no prospect of ever living peacefully.

General Conway, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, testified this 
morning before the Armed Services Committee, of which I am a member, 
and he discussed that issue. The marines met with these local tribal 
leaders and made an arrangement, and they turned on al-Qaida, attacked 
them and have killed them, and they have helped us kill them because 
they do not agree with them anymore and they have learned the true 
nature of this group.

The violence is dropping, and Shia groups and councils and awakening 
groups are forming in other areas of the country. In Al Anbar, a mostly 
Sunni province, remarkable progress toward stability and a decline in 
violence has been made. So why do we want to ask for another report?

I note that this bill, S. 2634, was dropped in the same day and by 
the same people who authored the bill to demand a precipitous 
withdrawal from Iraq. The Iraq Study Group, an independent group, said 
that such a withdrawal would be a ''victory of historic proportions'' 
for al-Qaida.



I want to be frank: The people who are proposing this report, the 
people who have called for the precipitous withdrawal from Iraq want us 
out of there and do not care about any of the consequences.

We are a great nation. We committed our military. We committed our 
Nation. We committed our resources. We committed the lives of our 
military by more than a three-fourths vote to this enterprise, and in 
recent months we have had a most dramatic turn for the better. Why now 
would we want to promote a precipitous withdrawal? Why now would we 
demand more and more reports that, if read carefully, have no potential 
to lead to a constructive benefit toward the mission we have 
undertaken? I don't think it would do anything other than make it more 
difficult for our military, more difficult for General Petraeus and our 
Defense Department to be successful.


So I urge my colleagues to oppose this. Let's be mature as a nation. 
Let's not snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. This matter is not 
over, don't get me wrong. I don't portend to suggest in any way that 
these better numbers and downward trends in violence and progress made 
politically is guaranteed to continue. We are going to have hiccups and 
problems, I am certain, but it is certainly going in the right 
direction today.

I would urge us not to destabilize that, not to pass resolutions that 
can only be interpreted by our allies, by the Iraqis, by our own 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines that are there in Iraq as an 
ambivalent attitude toward what they are doing, by placing their very 
lives at risk for this policy. Why in the world would we want to send 
such a message?

I think it would be a big mistake, and I ask my colleagues to join 
with me in opposing this legislation.

I thank the Chair and would ask how much time is left on this side.