# SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR DAY
## `71308c1a4f69d476d47a74ece9101e8e`
`Mr. REYES — 5 March 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 47, 
observing National Medal of Honor Day and honoring the sacrifices of 
Medal of Honor recipients and their contributions to our Nation. March 
25th is an appropriate day to recognize these individuals, since the 
first Medal of Honor was awarded on March 25, 1863.

This resolution not only salutes the bravery of Medal of Honor 
recipients, but also gives the American public the opportunity to learn 
about the history of this prestigious military distinction and the 
uncommon acts of courage that made recipients real-life heros.

Previous honorees include several EI Pasoans. Staff Sergeant Ambrosio 
Guillen was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for going above and 
beyond the call of duty during the Korean War. Sergeant Guillen 
sacrificed his life in order to thwart an enemy attack, saving the 
lives of the men in his platoon. He was laid to rest at Fort Bliss 
National Cemetery.

Colonel Joseph C. Rodriguez was also awarded the Medal of Honor for 
his courageous actions in the Korean War. While facing a barrage of 
hostile fire and improbable odds, Colonel Rodriguez secured a strategic 
stronghold by killing 15 enemy soldiers occupying well-fortified 
positions. He later moved to EI Paso following his retirement from the 
Army and served as Facilities Director at the University of Texas at EI 
Paso for over 10 years.

Most recently, on April 4, 2005, Army Sergeant First Class Paul Ray 
Smith was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his 
''extraordinary heroism and uncommon valor'' while repelling an enemy 
attack on a prisoner of war holding area during Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. Sergeant Smith quickly organized two Army platoons to defend 
their position. In the face of enemy fire, Smith manned a .50 caliber 
machine gun mounted on a damaged armored vehicle. Although exposed to 
enemy gunfire, Sergeant Smith maintained his position. His heroism 
resulted in the death of over 50 enemy soldiers before Sergeant Smith 
was mortally wounded during this courageous act.

As a Vietnam veteran, I recognize the importance of honoring these 
selfless acts of courage. In order to preserve their legacy and costly 
sacrifices, I proudly stand in support of our Medal of Honor 
recipients.
