---
---

# None
## `71344e7aa012859b623e72aa45d430f1`
`Mr. OBERSTAR — 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of House 
Concurrent Resolution 171, authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds 
for an event to honor military personnel who have died in service to 
the United States and to acknowledge the sacrifice of the families of 
those individuals as part of the National Weekend of Remembrance.

This concurrent resolution will permit the use of the Capitol Grounds 
for a Time of Remembrance tribute for military families who have lost 
loved ones in Iraq and Afghanistan, including 72 Minnesota families 
(with 12 families from my Congressional District). This event will be 
held on September 26, 2009, on the West Front of the Capitol and will 
be sponsored by the White House Commission on Remembrance and Families 
United for Our Troops and Their Mission, a non-profit organization.

The White House Commission on Remembrance was established by Congress 
in 2000, under the National Moment of Remembrance Act (P.L. 106-579). 
This law directed the Commission to unite the nation in a National 
Moment of Remembrance, to be held at 3:00 p.m. each Memorial Day. Since 
2006, the Commission has also sponsored an annual Time of Remembrance 
ceremony to ''honor all those who have died in service to our country, 
with a special tribute to America's fallen in Afghanistan and Iraq and 
the families they left behind.''

Passing this resolution will ensure that this year's ceremony, and a 
picnic to follow, will be allowed to go forward on the Capitol Grounds 
on September 26, 2009. Activities on the Capitol Grounds conducted 
under H. Con. Res. 171 will be coordinated with the Architect of the 
Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, and will be free of charge.

This ceremony is an opportunity to demonstrate to military families 
that their fellow Americans join them in mourning their loss, and to 
express our sincere and immeasurable gratitude for the service of their 
sons, daughters, mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers to our nation. 
While we can never adequately thank those who have died for the 
sacrifice they have made, taking time to remember these brave men and 
women and celebrating their lives with their families is an appropriate 
tribute.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Con. Res. 171.

The concurrent resolution was agreed to.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
