# SUPPORTING AND ENCOURAGING GREATER SUPPORT FOR VETERANS DAY EACH YEAR
## `713c8ea85c2ebb1257fe8b013a1c3a81`
`Mr. BOSWELL — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. BOSWELL. Thank you, Chairman Filner, and all of you who have 
worked on veterans events this day and these last several months. We 
appreciate it very much.

Mr. Speaker, as veterans we know the sacrifice that our 
servicemembers pay each day. Whether currently deployed in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Korea, or wherever they might be around the world, serving 
on active duty or serving in the Army Reserves or on the National 
Guard, our men and women in uniform sacrifice for our freedom.

Oftentimes when we speak of our key military assets we are referring 
to the carriers and the stealth bombers and the tanks or the fighter 
planes. Well, while those are all impressive, none are more impressive 
than our brave men and women in uniform. I think, in fact, I know, they 
are our greatest military asset. The men and women who serve our Nation 
are the best educated, trained and equipped fighting force in the 
world. Because of this, I am proud to stand with my colleague (Mr. 
Baca) and all the rest of you to encourage communities and schools 
around the country to recognize the contributions veterans have made to 
our country and to our history.

It is often said, but we will say it again, a grateful Nation will 
always remember those who sacrifice so much in preserving our freedom. 
If we are to continue to have the very best of our Nation serve, we 
must continue to give them assurances that their service will not be 
forgotten. By granting all veterans who served before them the 
recognition, care and respect promised, tomorrow's veterans will have 
the reassurance in knowing their future needs will be addressed.

I am very proud to stand here to cosponsor this bill today and 
encourage the House to pass H. Res. 237. Honor Veterans Day. It's 
something we have a privilege to do.