# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `7142201e4dc26db1451b9258e0e95901`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, this is a very important week for this 
country as we bring the issue of Iraq back to the Senate floor and 
listen to the American people, who are very clear. They want this war 
to end. They want the troops to come home. They know our service men 
and women have given everything there is to give, and more. They know 
the policies we have followed in Iraq since day one have backfired. 
They are looking to us.

If I might say where we are in this debate in this Senate, in my 
opinion, is between talk and action. It is very easy to talk and say: 
Oh, we need a change. We must have a change. It is important that we 
have a change, and call press conferences and say we need a change. It 
is time for change. But let's see how people vote. Will they vote for a 
sense of the Senate that has absolutely no force of law, which says it 
is the sense of the Senate we should change course, or will they vote 
to start redeploying our troops out of the middle of a civil war, out 
of chaos?

My colleagues know I represent the largest State in the Union, and we 
are taking a major hit. We have lost hundreds and hundreds of soldiers. 
We see thousands injured from our State. We see a National Guard that 
doesn't have the equipment it has to have. Some reports are the 
equipment is down 50 percent. What does that mean? It means if, God 
forbid, there is an earthquake, a fire, all the things we have to deal 
with in my beautiful State, who is going to protect the people? How 
much longer can we afford the bloodshed? The dollars--we are now told 
$12 billion a month is being spent in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Presiding Officer and I share a lot of common interests. One of 
them is, for example, to make sure our kids can go to afterschool care, 
because that is the time they get in trouble. That is a high-risk time. 
Do my colleagues know what it would cost to fund afterschool care to 
the level that it is supposed to be, according to No Child Left Behind? 
It would cost $3 billion a year. We are funding it at $1 billion. 
Millions of kids are on the street. We spend $12 billion in Iraq and 
Afghanistan in 1 month, but we cannot find a couple of billion in a 
year for our children. We can't find the money to insure our children, 
to protect their health. Oh, no. We don't have the money for that. The 
President is going to veto this bill and veto that bill. He can't help 
the farmers. We can't do this, we can't do that, but $12 billion in 
Iraq and Afghanistan--no problem. No problem to save his reputation, to 
save him from having to prove to the world he was wrong. Well, it is 
one thing to have an argument with someone and have pride and say: You 
know, I am not going to admit I made a mistake. It is another thing 
when people are dying because of your mistake--every day.

Now, in November of 2006, the American people voted against the Iraq 
war. They elected Democrats. They want this war to end. They want this 
mission to end. They don't want our troops in the middle of a civil 
war, getting killed and getting maimed, getting post-traumatic stress, 
getting brain injuries that are the signature injury of this war.

We will be dealing with the problems of this war for decades to come. 
Anyone who lived through Vietnam knows that if you go on the streets 
today and look at who the homeless are, you know who they are. A third 
of them are veterans, most of them from Vietnam who never got over the 
experience. That is why Senator Lieberman and I have worked together to 
try and get the people who are coming back the mental health care they 
need. Senator Lieberman and I do not agree on this war. We are polar 
opposites on this war. But let me tell my colleagues, we are working 
together to get these troops the mental health care they need. Their 
marriages are breaking up. They can't sleep at night. They are having 
trouble with their employers. We have so many problems, and the 
American people expect us to fix it.

I see my friend Senator Biden is on the floor, and I will tell him I 
will speak for about another 10 minutes.

Now that my friend is on the floor, Senator Biden is the Senator who 
has looked ahead, who has said there is a light at the end of the 
tunnel. He has put forward a plan, and he put it forward a long time 
ago, for a diplomatic solution here, because there is no military 
solution. How many more explosive devices are going to blow up in the 
faces of our troops before we start bringing them home? How many more 
Iraqis are going to die--women, children? How many more faces are we 
going to look at on the front page before we get the guts to do the 
right thing?

The President doesn't listen. He didn't listen after the election. 
Oh, he said he did. He said he had a new strategy. What was it? The 
surge. The surge is not a new strategy. It is a military tactic, and it 
isn't working. Here is what the President said after he sent in more 
than 20,000 additional troops. He said:




 Over time, we can expect to see . . . fewer brazen acts of 


 terror, and growing trust and cooperation from Baghdad's 


 residents. When this happens, daily life will improve, Iraqis 


 will gain confidence in their leaders, and the Government 


 will have the breathing space it needs to make progress in 


 other critical areas.


Wrong. The President was wrong again. The Washington Post reported on 
Sunday:




 The Iraqi government is unlikely to meet any of the 


 political and security goals or time lines President bush set 


 for it in January. . . .


And today the AP, Associated Press, reports:




 Iraq fails to meet all reform goals.


Not even one goal was met, and our people are dying. They cannot meet


one goal. The violence continues unabated.

Since the President made his speech on January 10, after the 
election, when he said there was going to be a new strategy, 590 U.S. 
service men and women have been killed, 107 of whom did not live to see 
their 21st birthday. What kind of change is that this President 
brought?

The average number of daily attacks by insurgents and militias has 
not dropped below 150 per day. In Baghdad alone, there has been an 
average of 50 insurgent attacks a day. Over the weekend, more than 150 
Iraqis were killed in one single bombing. These bombings are not 
isolated events. In June alone, there were 39 bombings in Iraq that 
resulted in multiple fatalities. The number of suicide attacks more 
than doubled in Iraq since the surge began--from 26 in January to 58 in 
April. What kind of new strategy is that? If that is a new strategy, it 
is worse than the other one. The average number of Iraqi civilians 
killed has risen to more than 100 per day.

The administration is failing on the security front; they are failing 
on the political front. They don't listen to Senator Biden, chairman of 
the Foreign Relations Committee. They don't listen to Senator Lugar, 
the ranking member. They are all saying you have to have a political 
solution.

The administration is failing on the reconstruction front. Iraqis 
living in Baghdad still receive an average of 5.6 hours of electricity 
a day. The President can't even keep the lights on, let alone succeed 
in this surge.

Yesterday, Tony Snow said:




 The President wants to withdraw troops based on the facts 


 on the ground, not on the matter of politics.


Well, I say to Tony Snow, elections have consequences, and you lost 
in 2006. The issue was Iraq and the policies on the ground are not 
working; they are failing. So whether you listen to politics or what is 
happening on the ground, the answer is the same.

On February 1, Tony Snow described the surge in this way:




 We are talking about significant economic development 


 efforts; we're talking about significant political 


 reconciliation. These are the kinds of things we expect to 


 see.


Well, they have not seen them. We know the President is going to 
address the American people. I say to the President, tell the truth to 
the American people. Lay out what you expected, and then lay out the 
reality, and start getting the troops home. We have not seen 
improvements. Now our military is at the breaking point. Listen to 
retired generals. They don't have to toe the line. They tell the truth. 
Nearly 90 percent of Army National Guard units in the U.S. are rated 
''not ready''--largely as a result of shortfalls in equipment that 
jeopardize their capability to respond to crises at home and abroad. In 
my State, our equipment is down 50 percent. So who will be responsible 
when we have a disaster, I say to the President? Who is going to be 
responsible? The same people who have brought us Iraq are going to 
bring us a crisis in our States. We already saw what happened in 
Katrina from incompetence. Let's match incompetence and lack of 
equipment and see what happens then.

What about Iraqi forces? On January 11, Secretary Gates said:




 We are going to know pretty early on whether the Iraqis are 


 meeting their military commitments. . . .


He said we would know early on. The answer is they are not meeting 
their military commitments. After this weekend's violence, senior Iraqi 
officials called on Iraqi civilians to arm themselves and fight 
insurgents. That is from their Government. They are not telling the 
people this Government will protect you; that the Americans have 
trained 300,000 of us and we are ready to protect you. No. The answer 
is to arm yourselves so that when insurgents break down your door, you 
can kill them before they kill you. What a situation.

The Iraqi Vice President said:




 The people have no choice but to take up their own defense.


We need to chart a new course on Iraq today. As Senator Lugar said:




 Persisting indefinitely with the surge strategy will delay 


 policy adjustments that have a better chance of protecting 


 our vital interests over the long term.


But the administration doesn't seem willing to chart a new course. As 
stated on the front page of today's Washington Post, ''GOP Dissent 
Spurs Change in Message But Not Course.'' That is another way of, I 
think, confusing the subject. Get up and give a great speech and then 
you vote against anything that has any teeth in it. You vote for 
something that says it is the sense of the Senate that things are not 
going well, rather than it is time to change this mission and get our 
troops out of the middle of a civil war, and make sure what we are 
doing is training the Iraqi soldiers, and that is fine, and going after 
al-Qaida, which is fine, protecting our forces, and that is fine, but 
get most of them out of there.

A change in message will not prevent the deaths of more Americans and 
will not salvage the President's failed policy. Over the next 2 weeks, 
we will have the opportunity to debate several amendments that will 
mandate a change of course on Iraq. I urge my colleagues, as strongly 
as I can, as someone who has stood up here time and time again and said 
we are making mistakes, to finally admit it--but not just admit it, do 
something about it. That is what we have to do. We have to change the 
reality of what is happening.


As the experts have told us over and over again, what are we doing 
here? We are in the middle of a civil war; we are neglecting the war on 
terror. We say we are fighting the terrorists there and we will stop 
them from coming here. That is what Tony Blair said, but it didn't stop 
anything. This is a recruitment tool for al-Qaida. Iraq is a 
recruitment tool for al-Qaida. Peter Bergman said that a long time ago 
when we went into Iraq. He is an expert on the Middle East. I don't 
want to recruit al-Qaida; I want to go after them. I voted to go after 
them after 9/11. I didn't vote to change course and go in another 
direction for regime change based on faulty information, faulty 
intelligence.

This week and next week, we will find out who talks in the Senate and 
who is willing to take action in the Senate. I hope the American people 
will look at the amendments we are voting on and, at the bottom line, 
understand which ones are just talk and which ones will actually result 
in redeployment of the troops out of a civil war--who walks the walk 
versus who talks the talk. Action means a deadline. Action means you 
change the mission. Action means you start bringing the troops home. 
Action doesn't mean a change in message, but a change of course. 
Reshuffling the chairs on the deck of the Titanic is not what we should 
be doing. We need to change course.

I have spoken with mothers and fathers who have lost sons and 
daughters. They have begged me in the most tearful way to spare other 
families what they are going through. If this war was working, that 
would be one thing. But there is no military solution here. We need to 
listen to what our chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee is 
saying about a political solution, about separating the warring 
parties, about bringing in the nations of the region, and doing it 
now--before another soldier is blown up or breaks up with his wife 
because of the stress, or before another child has no dad or mom. The 
time is now.

I am so glad we are going to be doing the Defense authorization bill 
and have our opportunity to actually put our ideas into action. I will 
be supporting every single amendment that will result in a change of 
course, accountability, starting to bring the troops home.

I thank the Chair and I thank the Senator from Delaware for allowing 
me to go before he goes.

I yield the floor at this time.

[Applause in the Gallery.]