---
---

# FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `714d6e3ff9530e2bdf73bbac1b1f5719`
`Mr. BOND — 14 December 2010`

---


Mr. BOND. Thank you, Leader McConnell, for your very kind and 
generous words.

Since I announced I was not running for reelection, I have been 
overwhelmed by the nice things folks have been saying about me. There 
is nothing like being eulogized while you are still breathing. But to 
my good friend Mitch, it has been a long time since we sat back in the 
corner as the ''Not Quite Ready for Prime Time Players,'' but while I 
never made it to prime time, except, of course, one appearance as a 
very less-than-best-selling author on the ''Jon Stewart Show,'' you 
certainly have arrived.

You have led us through many difficult and protracted debates. 
Through all of it, you have been an agile, disciplined, and courteous 
negotiator, with a good sense of humor. You kept us together on many 
tough votes, at least as much as is possible to keep 40-something 
different, independent minds all together or, as I like to say, 40 
frogs in a wheelbarrow. But I thank you, Mitch. While I have 
occasionally caused you heartburn--I realize that--I have always 
appreciated your intelligence, your leadership, and your friendship. 
You and Elaine are very close friends of Linda and myself, and we wish 
you both the very best for the future.














 Farewell to the Senate


Two years ago I announced my retirement from the Senate, and that 
time has come. I have to begin by thanking all my colleagues and my 
constituents for making this job one of the best a person could hold. 
There is no greater honor than being given the trust of the people at 
home to represent them. I have done my best to keep faith with my 
constituents on every vote I have cast and every issue on which I have 
worked.

Through more than two decades of membership in this world's greatest 
deliberative body--sometimes delaying body--I have participated in my 
share of debates. When I first came to the Senate, the Cold War was a 
conflict some thought we would never win. Thanks to the courage and 
resolve of former President Ronald Reagan, millions of people now live 
in freedom. During this last term especially, it seems many debates 
will have history-shaping consequences.

America has faced many challenges in the past 6 years: the longest 
recession since the Great Depression, wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the 
continuing battle against terrorism, the fight to be competitive in a 
global economy, and many more. As I look back, the successes we have 
achieved during my time here have come because people of good will were 
willing to work across the aisle for the common good of our Nation.

As I address the floor today, I am filled with memories of the many 
colleagues with whom I have worked over the years. One stands out in my 
memory--the one who was my best friend


and mentor in the Senate, who took me under his wing and treated me and 
my family as close friends, and that, of course, is the late Senator 
Ted Stevens. He was unflagging in his support of his principles, and 
everyone clearly knew where he stood. Yet he was a very effective 
appropriator because he knew how to compromise. I can only hope my 
colleagues and constituents know where I stand, and I, too, know that 
working across the aisle is the only way to get things done in this 
body.

Right after I arrived, I had the pleasure of working with the late 
Senator Robert Byrd, who achieved the acid rain trading compromise and 
passed the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990. I also joined with former 
Senator Wendell Ford to establish a National Guard caucus, and now it 
is a pleasure to work with Pat Leahy to ensure that our dual-mission 
National Guard is adequately prepared to serve emergency needs on the 
homefront and participate in our national security issues abroad.

On the Appropriations Committee, I have enjoyed the successes I have 
had working first with Barbara Mikulski and now Dianne Feinstein to 
ensure that public housing meets the needs of the people it is supposed 
to serve and the communities in which they live, providing supportive 
assistance for the homeless--particularly veterans--and stopping lead 
paint poisoning of children in old public housing buildings across the 
Nation. Barbara and I also gave a boost to what I believe will be the 
job-creating technology of the 21st century: agricultural 
biotechnology. We did that with congressionally directed spending in 
the National Science Foundation budget.

With Senator Dianne Feinstein as chair of the Senate Select Committee 
on Intelligence, we have put, I believe, the Senate Intelligence 
Committee back on a path of bipartisanship and achieved passage of the 
first Intelligence Act Reauthorization in 6 years.

I especially owe my Republican colleagues my sincerest thanks and 
appreciation for sticking with me as we negotiated our way through some 
tough compromises, such as the fights we have had on FISA. But when the 
Help America Vote Act came to the Senate floor in 2001, ostensibly to 
cure problems with punchcard voting in Florida but which most of us 
Republicans thought was an effort to discredit the election of former 
President Bush, I urged my colleagues not to block the bill but to use 
it, not only to make it easier to vote but tougher to cheat. When we 
moved to the floor, I brought to the Senate floor a picture of a 
springer spaniel, Ritsy Meckler, who had been registered to vote in St. 
Louis, MO, to make the point that if we had positive identification, it 
would have been much more difficult for Ritsy to register or certainly 
to vote. My friend, Chris Dodd, with whom I had worked on many children 
and family issues and who worked with us on the HAVA Act, told me he 
never wanted to see a picture of that dog again, so I autographed the 
picture and gave it to him. I trust he still has it in his trusted 
memory box.

Right now we are engaged on the Senate floor in passing a bill that 
will stop historic tax increases from hitting most American families 
and the entire economy next year. I truly hope the House will be able 
to pass a bill for signature by President Obama so we can begin getting 
the economy to work again and preventing even more job losses. Assuming 
we can do it, the new Congress has to put our economy back on a sound 
footing. We must end the recent trend of the push for government 
overspending and passing the burdensome mandates on States and the 
private sector. Excessive regulations that go beyond reasonable safety 
and environmental restrictions are costing us jobs in agriculture, 
energy, and many other areas of the economy, and stopping badly needed 
developments that we in this country need.

The size of the debt has become an increasing concern for my 
constituents and others across the Nation. We have a debt problem that 
is caused by spending, not by having taxes too low. I am encouraged to 
see there has been more discussion of having a flat tax with lower 
rates, eliminating a wide range of deductions, credits, and other tax 
bill earmarks. Doing so would make it easier for all of us, as 
Americans, to fill out tax forms, eliminating the time and effort of 
figuring them out, and I think it should enable us to put more of those 
resources into what we need, our top priority: job creation.

Speaking of job creation, I think there are tremendous opportunities 
in export trade. I applaud President Obama's call for expanding trade 
to create jobs. I look forward to seeing his continued leadership and 
to seeing Congress move forward promptly to adopt the trade agreements 
with Korea, Colombia, and Panama. For our intermediate-term future, it 
is essential the United States participate in the Trans-Pacific 
Partnership with countries on both sides of the Pacific to take down 
barriers to trade and increase export job opportunities.

As most of my colleagues know, I have been particularly interested in 
expanding trade with Southeast Asia, which I believe is not well 
understood by too many Americans. But the entire Asian region, however, 
provides huge opportunities for better American jobs through trade and 
investment across the Pacific.


In addition to expanding economic growth and jobs, trade is also an 
important element in SmartPower, the fight against terrorist 
insurgencies threatening other countries and ultimately those of us 
here at home. As I mentioned in the book the leader was kind enough to 
speak of, we can and must use trade, investment, and education 
interchanges to build strong economies as a necessary step as we use 
military action to stop imminent, violent threats. The combination can 
make stronger, stabler allies.

I think SmartPower was no better demonstrated than in the efforts of 
the Missouri National Guard Development team in Nangarhar Province in 
Afghanistan. These military-trained Guard men and women went to 
Afghanistan with strong private sector expertise in a wide range of 
agriculture activities and helped reestablish a profitable, legitimate 
agriculture in Agatha, while they were maintaining security.

By the end of the first 10-month growing season, illicit poppy 
production had dropped to zero in Agatha, which had been the second 
leading poppy producer in the Nation. I think we have to expand that 
model with more National Guard units deployed but also a better 
coordination of not only our military forces overseas but civilian 
assistance that must go with them. We must continue our efforts to 
avoid giving al-Qaida and its related terrorist allies an unchallenged 
place to develop recruiting and training camps, command and control 
units that threaten us.

One of the greatest challenges, however, is the publicly announced 
summer of 2011 withdrawal date from Afghanistan.

It has told our enemies they only need to wait until next summer to 
put our allies in the Karzai government on notice that we may not be 
there to protect them after the summer of 2011. As important, it tells 
the shura or local community leaders we will not be there next year to 
protect them from the Taliban, so they are less likely to cooperate 
with us. There must be a message, I believe, from the White House, 
widely disseminated, that we will pull out of Afghanistan only when 
conditions on the ground indicate there will be security.

A high point of my legislative career got an impetus in 2007, when I 
went with Senator Bayh on a congressional delegation, a CODEL, to 
Afghanistan. We were told that the limitations in the old Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act were a great threat to our troops as well 
as to those of us on the ground. I worked, as the leader said, from 
that point until the summer of 2008, with the strong support of my 
Republican colleagues, and a workable compromise across the aisle was 
developed which gave the intelligence agencies the access they needed 
and, at the same time, extended the protection of rights of Americans 
overseas from unwarranted interception of messages by telephone or e-
mail.

As a result, we currently have that ability, but we must go to work 
quickly to make sure other provisions of vital intelligence collection 
measures and authorizations do not expire without legislative 
extensions. For the United States, our homeland, our defense against 
terrorist acts from prisoners of war is essential, and we must prevent 
the release of Gitmo detainees


to other countries, where they will return to the battlefield. The fact 
that one in four detainees already has come back is a frightening 
figure because we believe there are many more who will come back, and I 
fear one of those may conduct an attack on the United States. We need 
to have a law of war which allows us to hold them.

As a final thought on intelligence, however, the recent WikiLeaks 
scandal has shown us what damage the Internet can do to our diplomatic 
efforts as well as the safety of those in dangerous places with whom we 
have worked. The even greater threat we see is the continuing cyber 
attack on military intelligence and private sector critical 
infrastructure. With my colleague from Utah, Orrin Hatch, we have 
introduced a cyber security bill which will establish a cyber defense 
alliance to allow private sector entities to cooperate with government 
agencies to protect our critical financial systems, our utilities and, 
most of all, our communications systems from attack. The battle is 
underway, and we will need every effort to stay ahead of the developing 
attacks as well as helping the private sector protect their 
information.

In closing, I will tell my colleagues I have worked in all possible 
party combinations. I have been in the majority and minority. I have 
been fat and thin, and being thin and in the majority is a whole lot 
better. In my two terms as Governor, with a 70-percent Democratic 
majority in both the house and the senate general assembly, they 
explained to me how bipartisanship works. I figured it out during my 
second term, which enabled us to do better. It was my most successful 
term in any office, and the general assembly and I both achieved 
passage of all the legislative priorities we had.

So now if my colleagues will permit a little parting advice from an 
old bull: Work together, play nice.

I would follow up on the leader's comment about a little scuffle I 
had with Pat Moynihan. I never talked about it. We never said anything 
publicly until now. Later on, as we became fast friends, he used to 
tease me about setting up boxing matches so we could raise money for 
charity. But when I looked at his height and his reach, I didn't take 
him up on that.

In a world today where enemies are real--the kind who seek to destroy 
others because of their religion--it is important to remember there is 
a lot of real estate between a political opponent and a true enemy. In 
government, we expect spirited and principled debate where ideas 
compete and the best ones prevail. There will be issues where people of 
good conscience cannot come together, but let us never let what cannot 
be done interfere with what can be done. Events in the world and 
threats will continue to challenge us--terrorism, the economy, and 
growing debt.

Nearly 24 years ago, I was sworn in as a U.S. Senator. Since that 
time, I have been honored to work with you and others on all the 
priorities facing our country and many more. Public service has been a 
blessing and a labor of love for me. Little in life could be more 
fulfilling.

But I look forward to the next chapter in my life. I am neither shy 
nor retiring. There are ways to serve, and elective office is only one 
of them. I plan to continue fighting for Missouri and national 
priorities from a different vantage point.

Throughout 40 years of public life, I have met many wonderful people. 
I have visited every area of the State every term I have served in 
office. The people I have met in office and the people I have worked 
with have made the job so rewarding I decided to stay longer. The 
people of Missouri have been my most trusted and valuable advisers and 
I thank them for giving me support and helping me to identify not only 
the challenges but the solutions.

In addition to my colleagues and friends, there are too many others 
to thank, but let me give you the first one. First, to my patient 
family--my wife Linda, the light and love of my life; my talented, 
charming daughter-in-law Margaret, and my son Sam, whom I regard as my 
personal hero for his service as a marine ground-intelligence officer 
in Iraq.

Thanks to all who have worked for me in my office, on my committees, 
and those who have helped me with political activities--hundreds and 
thousands over the years. Some were not born when I started, others 
have passed away. Fortunately, many are still here.

As Mitch said, I thank my political adversaries for keeping me nimble 
and the media for keeping me humble. Most of all, I thank the voters of 
Missouri for sending me to Jefferson City three times and Washington, 
DC four times to represent them. There is no greater honor. I have been 
truly blessed to be entrusted by them with the responsibility of public 
office. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart.