# U.S. POLICY IN AFGHANISTAN
## `714ed5d16134e9c6f072ecec250c2ba9`
`Mr. SPECTER — 17 September 2009`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Madam President, I intend now to summarize the substance 
of my concerns.

The approach on our policy has been outlined in testimony earlier 
this week by ADM Michael Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
in these two statements: Our policy




 . . . [is] to deny sanctuary to al-Qaida and the Taliban 


 now and to generate a stable and secure Afghanistan capable 


 of denying al-Qaida return after withdrawal of our combat 


 forces and while we sustain partnership and commitment to 


 political and economic development in that nation.


Admiral Mullen told the committee:




 A properly resourced counterinsurgency probably means more 


 forces, without question more time and more commitment to the 


 protection of the Afghan people and to the development of 


 good governance.


While I think it is laudable to want to protect the Afghan people and 
to provide good governance there, it is my view that is not of 
sufficient national interest for the United States to put our troops at 
risk or to expend substantial additional sums there. The principal 
question, as I see it, is whether Afghanistan is indispensable to be 
secured to prevent al-Qaida from launching another attack against the 
United States. If that is the purpose, that is the necessity, then we 
must undertake anything, whatever it costs, to stop al-Qaida from again 
attacking the United States.

But I believe there is a series of questions which have to be 
answered before we can assess whether that is an indispensable part of 
U.S. policy. Toward that end, I have written to the Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of State, the Director of National Intelligence, 
and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency on a series of 
questions which I think requires answers before we can make an informed 
judgment as to whether the expenditures in Afghanistan are in our 
specific and key national interests. These are the questions which I 
have posed for these leaders:

What are the prospects for military success in Afghanistan against 
al-Qaida and the Taliban? What will the requirements be in the next 
year as to additional U.S. troops and the cost of our involvement in 
Afghanistan? What may we reasonably expect NATO or other allies to 
contribute in troops and dollars to our efforts in Afghanistan? What 
other areas around the world are open to al-Qaida as potential bases 
for another attack on the United States? What will be done besides 
military action, such as nation building and stabilizing and developing 
Afghanistan, so that they will be prepared to handle their own problems 
so we can withdraw? What assistance can we reasonably expect from 
Pakistan in fighting al-Qaida and the Taliban and stopping both from 
seeking refuge by moving in and out of Pakistan? How does the 
questionable legitimacy of President Karzai's status as result of 
allegations of proof of election fraud impact on our ability to succeed 
in Afghanistan? How does the illegal drug trafficking and alleged 
involvement of high-ranking officials in the Karzai government in such 
drug trafficking impact on our efforts in Afghanistan? What does U.S. 
intelligence show as to any possible plans by al-Qaida to attack the 
United States or anyone else? What does U.S. intelligence show as to 
whether India poses a real threat to attack Pakistan? What does U.S. 
intelligence show as to whether Pakistan poses a real threat to attack 
India? What does U.S. intelligence show as to whether Pakistan could 
reasonably devote additional military force to assist us in the fight 
against the Taliban? What does U.S. intelligence show as to whether the 
Government of Pakistan or influential officials in the Pakistani 
Government would consider negotiating with India for reducing nuclear 
weapons or other confidence-building measures to diffuse the tension 
with India if actively encouraged to do so by the United States? What 
does U.S. intelligence show as to whether the Government of India or 
some influential officials in the Indian Government would consider 
negotiating with Pakistan for reducing nuclear weapons or other 
confidence-building measures to diffuse the tension with Pakistan if 
actively encouraged by the United States to do so?

We have learned a bitter lesson from Iraq--that we did not have 
answers to important questions in formulating our policy there. Had we 
known that Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction, I 
think the United States would not have gone into Iraq.

These questions were posed by me when we had the debate on the 
resolution for authorizing the use of force. On October 7, 2002, I said 
the following:




 What was the extent of Saddam Hussein's control over 


 weapons of mass destruction? What would it cost by way of 


 casualties to topple Saddam Hussein? What would be the 


 consequences in Iraq? Who would govern after Saddam was 


 toppled? What would happen in the region, the impact on the 


 Arab world, and the impact on Israel?


The President, as Commander in Chief, as we all know, has primary 
responsibility to conduct war but the Constitution vests in the 
Congress the sole authority to declare war. Regrettably, the 
congressional authority and responsibility has been dissipated with 
what we have seen in Korea and in Vietnam and in the authorizations for 
the use of force in the two incursions into Iraq. We do not have the 
authority under separation of powers to delegate that authority. And 
had we asked the tough questions and had we gotten correct, honest, 
accurate answers, it would have been a great help to President George 
W. Bush in formulating a policy as to Iraq. I think now it would be a 
great help to President Barack Obama for the Congress to exercise our 
persistence in finding correct answers to these kinds of tough 
questions.


We have a situation with Pakistan today which gives great pause. The 
United States has advanced $15.5 billion to Pakistan since 9/11. Some 
$10.9 billion of that money has gone for security, and there is a real 
question as to whether we have gotten our monies worth. The comments 
from the New York Times on December 24, 2007 raised these issues:




 Money has been diverted to help finance weapons systems 


 designed to counter India, not al-Qaida or the Taliban . . . 


 the United States has paid tens of millions of dollars in 


 inflated Pakistani reimbursement claims for fuel, ammunition 


 and other costs.


Dr. Anthony Cordesman, of the Center for Strategic and International 
Studies, wrote on April 10 of this year:




 Far too much of the military portion of the . . . past U.S. 


 aid to Pakistan never was used to help fight the Taliban and 


 al-Qaida or can't be accounted for. Future aid should clearly 


 be tied to clearly defined goals for Pakistani action and 


 full accounting for the money.


The New York Times, on August 30 of this year, pointed out:




 The United States has accused Pakistan of illegally 


 modifying American-made missiles to expand its capability to 


 strike land targets, a potential threat to India.


The questions which have been posed in the series of letters which I 
have outlined go to the issue as to whether India poses a threat to 
Pakistan. It is hard for me to contemplate that is a serious problem, 
but we ought to be informed and we ought to be putting our efforts to 
seeing if we cannot broker a peace treaty between India and Pakistan, 
which would enable us to get substantial help from Pakistan in our 
fight against the Taliban.

In 1995, when I was chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Senator 
Hank


Brown of Colorado and I visited India and Pakistan. When we were in 
India, we met with Prime Minister Rao, who brought up the subject of a 
potential nuclear confrontation between India and Pakistan and said he 
would like to see the subcontinent nuclear free. He knew we were en 
route to Pakistan to see Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and he asked us 
to take up the subject with her, which we did. As a result, I wrote the 
following letter to President Clinton the day after we left India, and 
I think it is worth reading in full:




 August 28, 1995.



 Dear Mr. President: I think it important to call to your 


 personal attention the substance of meetings which Senator 


 Hank Brown and I have had in the last 2 days with Indian 


 Prime Minister Rao and Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir 


 Bhutto. Prime Minister Rao stated that he would be very 


 interested in negotiations which would lead to the 


 elimination of any nuclear weapons on the subcontinent within 


 10 or 15 years, including renouncing first use of such 


 weapons. His interest in such negotiations with Pakistan 


 would cover bilateral talks, a regional conference which 


 would include the United States, China, and Russia, in 


 addition to India and Pakistan. When we asked Prime Minister 


 Bhutto when she had last talked to Prime Minister Rao, she 


 said she had had no conversations with him during her tenure 


 as prime minister. Prime Minister Bhutto did say that she had 


 initiated a contact through an intermediary but that was 


 terminated when a new controversy arose between Pakistan and 


 India. From our conversations with Prime Minister Rao and 


 Prime Minister Bhutto, it is my sense that both would be very 


 receptive to discussions initiated and brokered by the United 


 States as to nuclear weapons and also delivery missile 


 systems. I am dictating this letter to you by telephone from 


 Damascus so that you will have it at the earliest moment. I 


 am also telefaxing a copy of this letter to Secretary of 


 State Warren Christopher.


In my letter to Secretary of State Clinton, which I sent her last 
week, I asked her what efforts have been made to broker such a peace 
treaty between India and Pakistan.

I sent on to her a copy of a letter which I had written to President 
Clinton; if we could ease the tension between those two countries, if 
we could persuade Pakistan that India does not pose a threat so 
Pakistan would not have to marshal their forces along the Indian border 
but instead could aid the United States in our fight against the 
Taliban, it would be a very different proposition.

The suggestion has been made now to extend $7.5 billion in additional 
funding to Pakistan. It seems to me that is not a good use of our money 
if it is to follow the same trail as the $15.5 billion which we have 
expended in the immediate past. If we can get the assistance of 
Pakistan in fighting the Taliban, it would be one thing. If we could be 
assured that the money was being used for the intended purpose and not 
diverted for other purposes, as it appears the other $15.5 billion was, 
it would be a very different picture.

In sum, it seems to me that before we ought to commit additional 
troops to Afghanistan, it ought to be a matter of paramount importance, 
indispensable as a matter of stopping another attack by al-Qaida. But 
if al-Qaida can organize in some other spot, the issues raised by my 
questions, it would bear heavily on what our policy in Afghanistan 
should be.

In addition to the full text of my statement being printed in the 
Record, I ask unanimous consent that copies of my letters to Secretary 
of State Hillary Clinton, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, CIA 
Director and the Director of National Intelligence, Dennis Blair, all 
be printed in the Record, and I yield the floor.