# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `714eaad3d9334f36200c7faea45732f0`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I agree with the Senator from Arizona 
that the consequences of playing politics with this important funding 
for our troops is simply the wrong strategy; that what we have is a 
game of chicken between the House of Representatives, which is larding 
up a supplemental appropriations bill with a bunch of extraneous pork, 
and the President, recognizing that there are nonsecurity provisions in 
that supplemental appropriations, has said if that and the timetable 
for withdrawal from Iraq is included as part of this emergency 
supplemental, he will veto it. So this is a high-risk game of chicken, 
with the impact of delaying passage of the supplemental being felt 
directly by our troops on the ground, if that is in fact the result.

Last week, Secretary Gates made clear the consequences of not quickly 
passing the supplemental funding necessary to support our troops. The 
downstream effects will directly impact our soldiers, sailors, marines, 
and airmen. By not moving expeditiously to pass a clean supplemental 
bill that can pass the Senate and be signed by the President, the 
majority risks extending the tours of our troops scheduled to come home 
from Iraq and slowing the repair of equipment necessary to equip them, 
as well as the training of Iraqi soldiers who are designed to replace 
them.

Any delay in funding will not prevent a buildup of security forces in 
Iraq but, instead, threaten to dramatically impact forces already on 
the ground. Secretary Gates has said this kind of disruption to key 
programs will have a genuinely adverse effect on the readiness of the 
Army and the quality of life for soldiers and their families. So I 
can't imagine why in the world our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle, the new majority, would want to risk that.

This supplemental is necessary to pay for training and equipping the 
soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. If approved, the supplemental will 
pay for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, repairing and 
replacing equipment damaged or destroyed in combat, and new 
technologies to protect U.S. servicemembers. This last provision 
includes a new generation of body armor, better armored vehicles, and 
countermeasures against improvised explosive devices. IEDs have caused 
about 70 percent of the casualties in Iraq. The supplemental also will 
provide funding for training and equipping the Iraqi and Afghan 
security forces.

If this supplemental appropriations bill is not passed by April 15, 
the military will be forced to consider the following: curtailing and 
suspending home station training for Reserve and Guard units; slowing 
the training of units slated to deploy next to Iraq and Afghanistan; 
cutting the funding for upgrading and renovating the barracks and other 
facilities that support quality of life for our troops and their 
families; and stopping the repair of equipment necessary to support 
predeployment training. This is what Secretary of Defense Robert Gates 
has said on March 22, 2007.

If the supplemental is not passed by May 15, the military will be 
forced to consider the following: reducing the repair work done at Army 
depots; delaying or curtailing the deployment of brigade combat teams 
to their training rotations. This, in turn, will cause additional units 
in theater to have their tours extended because other units are not 
ready to take their place. Delaying the formation of new brigade combat 
teams; implementation of civilian hiring freeze; prohibiting the 
execution of new contracts and service orders, including service 
contracts for training events and facilities; and, finally, holding or 
canceling the order of repair parts to nondeployed units in the Army.

All of these, according to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, on 
March 22, 2007.

When the new majority took over Congress, they promised change. In 
fact, the first bill passed in the Senate was an ethics bill that, in 
part, helped improve transparency in the way we spend taxpayers' money 
in Washington. While that ethics bill remains in limbo, the 110th 
Congress has returned to the tried-and-true technique of inserting 
mystery earmarks that have nothing to do with funding our troops or 
fighting the war on terror into a war supplemental bill.

During the election season, many on the other side called the 109th 
Congress


the ''do-nothing'' Congress. The 110th Congress is quickly becoming the 
''say anything and do-nothing Congress'' when it comes to fiscal 
discipline. Last week, when the Senate debated the budget, the majority 
spoke of the need for fiscal discipline, even as it passed the $700 
billion tax hike for taxpayers over the next 5 years.

The chairman of the Senate Budget Committee was quoted as saying:




 We have a responsibility to govern, and you can't govern 


 without a budget.


But governing takes more than simply passing a budget. Governing also 
includes the discipline to live within a budget.

Unfortunately, both the Senate and the House failed in their first 
test by including billions more in the war supplemental than the 
President requested. As I mentioned, President Bush has already 
threatened to veto the House bill; not all because of the timetable it 
imposes for our troops' withdrawal from Iraq but also because the bill 
is full of pork.

In today's edition of the Politico, they did a fine job of 
identifying some of the most egregious examples of pork included in the 
House bill. They highlighted $5 million for tropical fish breeders and 
transporters for losses from a virus last year; $25 million for spinach 
that growers and handlers were unable to market, up to 75 percent of 
their losses; $60.4 million for the National Marine Fisheries Service 
to be distributed among fishing communities, Indian tribes, 
individuals, small businesses, including fishermen, fish processors, 
and related businesses, and other persons for assistance to mitigate 
the economic and other social effects by a commercial fishery failure.

It also includes $74 million for the payment of storage, handling, 
and other associated costs for the 2007 crop of peanuts to ensure 
proper storage of peanuts for which a loan is made, and the House bill 
also includes $120 million for the shrimp and menhaden fishing 
industries to cover consequences of Hurricane Katrina.

Now, I have to confess, even though I like to fish a little myself, I 
had never even heard of menhaden, so I went on the Internet to 
something called the Menhaden Fact Sheet. This is, if you will recall, 
$120 million for the shrimp and menhaden fishing industries to cover 
consequences of Hurricane Katrina. Well, as it turns out, according to 
the Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia on the Internet, the menhaden are 
fish of the--well, I can't even pronounce the Latin phrase, but they 
are of the herring family.


It says here, describing this menhaden that the taxpayer is being 
asked to pay $120 million in this emergency war supplemental: to 
support the gulf menhaden and Atlantic menhaden which are characterized 
by a series of smaller spots behind the main, humeral spot and larger 
scales than yellowfin menhaden and finescale menhaden. In addition, 
yellowfin menhaden tail rays are a bright yellow in contrast to those 
of the Atlantic menhaden, which are grayish. Menhaden range in weight 
up to 1 pound or more. At sea, schools of Atlantic menhaden may contain 
millions of members. Common names for Atlantic menhaden are mossbunkers 
and fatback. In Florida, yellowfin menhaden are called pogies, and are 
the preferred species for use as strip bait.

This is important. It talks about the range, since this is supposedly 
done as part of the Hurricane Katrina relief measure. It says gulf 
menhaden range from the Yucatan Peninsula to Tampa Bay, FL, with 
finescaled menhaden from the Yucatan to Louisiana--I guess we are 
getting a little closer now to where Hurricane Katrina hit--yellowfin 
menhaden from Louisiana to North Carolina, the Atlantic menhaden ranges 
from Jupiter Inlet, FL, to Nova Scotia. The various species of menhaden 
occur anywhere from estuarine waters outward to the Continental Shelf.

It says that menhaden are essentially filter feeders, straining 
microscopic plankton, algae, et cetera, from the water they swim 
through open-mouthed. Unlike mullet, they are not bottom feeders. Due 
to their feeding habits, they must be caught by cast netting to be used 
as live bait.

This is the most interesting part of the article. It says: menhaden 
are not used for human consumption. Most recently, menhaden has begun 
to be exploited as a source of omega-3 fatty acid fish oil for 
commercial human consumption, further threatening menhaden populations.

I certainly don't know what the purpose is of this $120 million for 
shrimp and the menhaden fishing industries, but I can't see in this 
description, or anywhere else in this legislation, why this is an 
emergency or why it ought to be included in an emergency war 
supplemental. If anything, the inclusion of this kind of appropriation 
in this emergency war supplemental in the House bill trivializes the 
importance of providing the money that will help our troops deployed in 
Afghanistan and Iraq in harm's way.

Here is what the Senate bill included: $24 million for funding of 
sugar beets; $3 million funding for sugar cane, all of which goes to a 
Hawaiian cooperative; $100 million for dairy product losses; an 
additional $31 million for a 1-month extension of the Milk Income Loss 
Contract Program; 13 million for Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention 
Program; $115 million for the conservation security program; $100 
million for small agricultural dependent businesses; $13 million for 
mine safety technology research; $50 million for fisheries disaster 
mitigation fund.

There is so much pork included in this supplemental appropriations 
bill, both in the House version and in the Senate proposal, that it 
warranted a front-page story and editorial in USA Today. An editorial 
in USA Today questioned:




 Which is worse: Leaders offering peanuts for a vote of this 


 magnitude, or Members allowing their votes to be bought for 


 peanuts.


The editorial went on to conclude:




 These provisions demean a bill that, if enacted, would 


 affect the lives of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, the 


 balance of power in the Middle East and America's long-term 


 security.


In short, what we have is that my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle are willing to put money into pet projects--which may or may not 
be worthy endeavors, we will never know--and yet are unwilling to 
adequately fund the needs of our military. For all their talk of 
earmark reform and transparency earlier this year, my colleagues seemed 
to have forgotten all of that when they put together the supplemental 
appropriations bill.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.