---
---

# RECOGNIZING 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MILITARY ORDER OF THE PURPLE HEART
## `7150846d0859ebcf82e86f7fbb067f16`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 30 July 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 
49, introduced by the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Jones), my 
good friend and colleague on the House Armed Services Committee.

This resolution honors the men and women in the Armed Forces who have 
demonstrated selfless and heroic acts on the field of battle. They are 
recipients of the Purple Heart. I am also proud to be a cosponsor of 
this resolution that so rightly honors those in uniform who sacrifice 
so much for our country.

This year marks the 75th anniversary of a medal awarded to soldiers, 
marines, airmen and sailors who have been wounded or killed by an enemy 
in combat. To date, over 1.5 million members of the Armed Forces have 
been awarded the Purple Heart, or its predecessor, the Badge of 
Military Merit, in conflicts spanning from the Civil War to the 
present-day Operation Iraqi Freedom and the war on terrorism.

The Purple Heart was revived in 1932 on the 200th anniversary of 
President George Washington's birth. Originally awarded only to Army 
soldiers in 1942, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt extended the 
honor to all military services. In 1962, President John F. Kennedy 
extended the honor to civilians working alongside the military in the 
time of war.

The Purple Heart is recognized as the oldest military honor in the 
United States that is still in use and the first to be given to any 
soldier who is wounded or killed by an enemy of the United States.

Faced with situations from which most people would shrink, our 
Nation's warriors have gone boldly into battle and met democracy's 
enemies with a fierce commitment to protect those liberties that allow 
all of us to stand here today. They recognized the truth so often 
overlooked by their fellow citizens: a free Nation requires constant 
protection and constant protectors.

Even in our modern age, complete with all the technology that human 
intellect can muster, our men and women in the Armed Forces continue to 
prove that it is selfless and patriotic citizens that must ultimately 
stand tall to protect our great Nation.

Formed in 1932, the Military Order of the Purple Heart has the solemn 
obligation and duty to foster an environment of goodwill among combat-
wounded veterans, promote patriotism, support necessary legislative 
initiatives, and, most importantly, provide service to all veterans and 
their families. It fulfills this mission through community and 
volunteer efforts and by employing low-income combat veterans. Their 
sacrifice and dedication to this country are a testament to the quality 
of individuals who volunteer to serve our Nation in uniform.

So it is important that we honor this sacrifice by congratulating the 
Military Order of the Purple Heart on its 75th anniversary, commend all 
recipients of the Purple Heart for their courage and sacrifice on 
behalf of the United States, and encourage all Americans to take time 
to learn about the Purple Heart and the honor, the courage, and the 
bravery it symbolizes.

I would also like to note that the Guam Chapter of the Military Order 
of the Purple Heart has been a tremendous community leader for all 
veterans on Guam. Their voice is heard through representation on the 
Guam Veterans Advisory Council. Our Guam chapter is also accredited to 
provide assistance to veterans who are applying for VA benefits. The 
group has been a critical partner for our Nation's most deserving, and 
we know that the Military Order of the Purple Heart has stood just as 
strong in communities across the Nation.

At this time, Madam Speaker, I would like to thank Mr. Jones, the 
sponsor, for his leadership in this cause.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time