# IN RECOGNITION OF STAFF SERGEANT MATTHEW P. PATNAUDE
## `715a287526598627b5a5f31bedcbb2a4`
`Mr. WALSH of New York — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. WALSH of New York. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of SSgt 
Matthew P. Patnaude, 314th Civil Engineering Squadron, United States 
Air Force. SSgt Patnaude, an Explosive Ordnance Disposal, EOD, 
Technician, has been recognized by the Air Force Times as the 2007 
Airman of the Year.

As an EOD Technician, SSgt Patnaude was deployed to Kirkuk, Iraq, to 
help protect our armed forces from various forms of enemy ordnance. 
During his time in Iraq SSgt Patnaude safeguarded over 16,000 coalition 
troops by executing 105 high-risk missions, neutralizing 45 IEDs, 
uncovering 9 weapons caches, and disposing of 40,000 pieces of enemy 
armaments. This exemplary service record alone is reason enough to 
recognize SSgt Patnaude, but his impressive resume stretches far beyond 
these black and white numbers.

While on a mission to neutralize a roadside bomb in Iraq, SSgt 
Patnaude was attacked by an enemy sniper. Although seriously injured by 
the sniper's bullet, he vectored his security team to the sniper's 
location, as well as kept the medic treating his wounds advised of the 
enemy's activities. The SSgt also exemplified courage under fire when 
wounded by an enemy lED during yet another high-risk mission. Always 
putting his team first, SSgt Patnaude checked on his chief, radioed 
security, and set up the area for medical personnel. As SSgt Patnaude's 
supervisor has previously stated: ''his actions under fire are, simply 
put, heroic.''



SSgt Patnaude is the recipient of two Purple Hearts, but praise from 
his command goes far beyond his service in Iraq. In addition to his 
impressive record while on-duty, SSgt Patnaude is also deeply involved 
in community service. SSgt Patnaude volunteers for both Air Force and 
local community projects, including his role as an Air Force ambassador 
to the Boy Scouts of America.

I wish to express my admiration and respect for such a fine example 
of the excellence and heroism that abounds in our Armed Forces. I am 
proud to have such an exemplary soldier and citizen come from my 
Congressional District. On behalf of the people of the 25th District of 
New York, I extend my sincere congratulations to SSgt Patnaude on his 
selection as the 2007 Airman of the Year.
