# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `71646a62adb6a493b33cddf39495bba2`
`Mr. INOUYE — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise today to address the Department of 
Defense appropriations bill for fiscal year 2010.

As my colleagues know, this afternoon the Senate received this 
measure from the House which represents a compromise between the bill 
passed by the House last July and what we passed this past October.

Since passage of the Senate measure, Vice Chairman Cochran and I and 
our staffs have spent countless hours in discussion with our colleagues 
in the House to thrash out the differences between our two bills. The 
product the Senate will consider represents the work of our 
discussions. While this is a House measure, I can assure my colleagues 
it is a very fair and balanced product.


The Defense appropriations portion of this measure totals $636.3 
billion in discretionary spending, including more than $128 billion for 
the cost of our ongoing efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In total, the Defense bill is $3.8 billion below the request of the 
President and within the subcommittee's allocation.

This bill represents the hard work over the past year of all the 
members of the Defense subcommittee. It contains funds that we believe 
will best meet the needs of the men and women who volunteer to serve 
our Nation in the military. The bill provides funding to increase their 
pay by 3.4 percent. It provides more than $30 billion to care for their 
health and the health of their families.

It provides support to families with loved ones serving in harm's way 
overseas and funding to ensure that their workplaces and quality of 
life back home are protected.

Of equal importance, the funding in this bill ensures that our forces 
in the field have the equipment and other tools required to meet their 
missions. Funding has been added to the President's request to provide 
for more MRAP vehicles to protect our forces from IEDs in Afghanistan.

Funds are provided for more medical evacuation and combat rescue 
helicopters to save our wounded troops. Funds have been added to 
sustain production of the C-17 Program so our forces in the field can 
be adequately resupplied, no matter where they are based.

This bill enhances research in lifesaving technologies and increases 
funds to care for our wounded personnel. It fully funds the priorities 
of Secretary Gates and our military commanders.

While I know some will criticize the fact that funds have been 
included at the request of Members of Congress, I remind my colleagues 
that, in total, this amount is less than 1 percent of the funding in 
the bill.

Moreover, all the so-called earmarks in the defense portion of this 
bill were in either the House or Senate bills. There are no 
''airdropped'' earmarks in the defense funding included in this 
measure.

In addition to the defense portion of the bill, the House has added a 
little


more than 1 dozen provisions to provide a 2-month safety net to 
unemployed and nearly impoverished Americans and to extend critical 
provisions which are set to expire this month.

For individual Americans, provisions were included to extend, through 
February 28, 2010, expiring unemployment insurance benefits that were 
established in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.

Likewise, provisions were included to extend the 65-percent COBRA 
health insurance subsidy from 9 to 15 months for individuals who have 
lost their jobs and to extend the job lost eligibility date also 
through February 28, 2010.

Further, a provision was included to freeze the Department of Health 
and Human Services' poverty guidelines at 2009 levels in order to 
prevent a reduction in eligibility for programs such as Medicaid, food 
stamps, and school lunch programs through March 1 of next year.

This provision keeps struggling families from falling through the 
cracks.

In addition, provisions were included to provide $125 million to 
extend the Recovery Act program for small businesses. The program 
reduces lending fees charged to borrowers under the Small Business 
Administration's guaranteed loan programs and increases the Federal 
guarantee on certain small business loans.

The Recovery Act supported a resurgence in SBA small business 
lending, but funds were exhausted in November. The additional funding 
in this bill will help support lending for small businesses during the 
economic recovery by continuing fee relief for borrowers and 
encouraging lenders to extend credit to small businesses.

Further, this bill includes a short-term extension of the highway, 
transit, highway safety and truck safety programs. Without this 
extension, the highway program would be brought to a standstill and the 
Department of Transportation would be unable to reimburse States for 
eligible expenses.

In addition, several agencies--including the Federal Highway 
Administration, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and 
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration--would not have the 
funds necessary to pay their employees.

This is not your typical end-of-the-year Christmas tree; to the 
contrary, it is the bare minimum of programs which must be continued to 
provide for our less fortunate and our struggling small businesses.

It also allows for a 2-month extension of laws such as the PATRIOT 
Act, in order to allow more time for our authorizing committees to come 
to agreement on more permanent legislation.

The House has passed a compromise measure and forwarded it to the 
Senate because of the calendar. Today is December 16, and our 
Department of Defense has been operating on a continuing resolution for 
more than 2 months.

It is time we get on with the process and get this bill to the 
President. It is a good measure. Our troops deserve our support. Let's 
show we support those who volunteered to serve all of us by voting 
today to send this bill to the President.

As I close, I wish to thank the Defense Subcommittee staff for their 
dedication and hard work in putting this bill together. I wish to put 
into the Record the names of these staff members who have worked on 
this bill in a bipartisan fashion. They are:




 Charlie Houy, Nicole Diresta, Kate Fitzpatrick, Katy Hagan, 


 Kate Kaufer, Ellen Maldonado, Rachel Meyer, Erik Raven, Gary 


 Reese, Betsy Schmid, Renan Snowden, Bridget Zarate, Rob 


 Berschinski, Stewart Holmes, Alycia Farrell, Brian Potts, 


 Brian Wilson and Tom Osterhoudt.


Mr. President, it is my pleasure and privilege to be chairman of the 
committee. It is a great honor. I wish to make certain we express our 
gratitude to all these staff people. Without them, I would not be 
standing here at this moment.

I yield the floor.