# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `71690f466bd9f9e074ddc70e1e2b221c`
`Mr. OBERSTAR — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the 
rescission of $683 million of highway contract authority that is 
included in the Conference Report on H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act, 2007.

The Conference Report provides an additional $683 million for the 
Federal Highway Administration's (''FHWA'') Emergency Relief Program. 
Section 4952 of the Conference Report designates this appropriation as 
an emergency requirement, for which no offset is required.

Despite the fact that no offset is required, the Conference Report 
rescinds $683 million in unobligated balances of highway funds that 
have been apportioned to the States. This rescission is highly 
gratuitous, as it is neither required nor effective as an offset for 
the supplemental appropriation to the Emergency Relief Program.

Rather than offsetting the supplemental appropriation for the 
Emergency Relief Program, the $683 million rescission of highway 
contract authority offsets other spending under the FY 2007 
discretionary budget authority cap.

A similar provision was included in the Senate-passed version of the 
bill. The Senate amendment provided an emergency supplemental 
appropriation of $389 million for the FHWA's Emergency Relief Program, 
and rescinded $389 million in highway contract authority.

On April 23, 2007, I wrote to the conferees, strongly objecting to 
this unnecessary rescission of highway contract authority, and urged 
them to strike the rescission in conference. Instead, the conferees 
increased both the appropriation and the rescission to $683 million.

Madam Speaker, the rescission of highway contract authority is the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure. This rescission violates clause 2 of Rule XXI of the 
Rules of the House.

Programmatically, I am concerned because of the effect these types of 
rescissions have on the Federal-aid Highway Program and, specifically, 
the ability to ensure that our nation's transportation system provides 
modal choices.

In recent years, the Appropriations Committees have increasingly 
relied on highway contract authority rescissions to finance non-highway 
spending in appropriations acts. In addition, more than a dozen states 
have chosen to apply such rescissions disproportionately to cut 
contract authority for the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality 
Improvement (CMAQ) program, the Bridge program, and transportation 
enhancement funds.

I am particularly concerned with the treatment of the CMAQ program 
under these types of rescissions. The CMAQ program provides funding for 
projects and programs that reduce transportation-related emissions in 
areas that do not meet Clean Air Act air quality standards (i.e., 
nonattainment and maintenance areas).

Although CMAQ funds represent only about 4-5 percent of highway 
apportionments each year, CMAQ funds have accounted for about 20 
percent of total highway funds rescinded in recent years. In FY 2006 
states rescinded $881 million in CMAQ funds. Almost one of every four 
dollars rescinded by the States in FY 2006 came from the CMAQ program.

Comparing the treatment of CMAQ to other highway programs further 
illustrates the disproportionate cuts of these rescissions. In FY 2006, 
rescissions as a percentage of the total amount made available for 
programs are:

CMAQ--55 percent.

Interstate Maintenance--12 percent.

National Highway System--7 percent.



The Transportation Enhancements program has also received 
disproportionate contract authority cuts under the rescissions. The 
Transportation Enhancements program provides funds for bike paths, 
pedestrian walkways, historic preservation, and other activities that 
expand transportation choices and enhance the transportation 
experience.

In FY 2006, states rescinded $602 million in Transportation 
Enhancements funds, 15 percent of all rescissions in that year. Texas 
alone rescinded $223 million of Transportation Enhancements funding and 
the Texas Department of Transportation stated that it would not fund 
any transportation enhancement projects in that fiscal year. Texas' 
actions, which are facilitated by these contract authority rescissions, 
are directly contrary to our federal efforts to develop a balanced, 
multimodal surface transportation system.

During consideration of the FY 2004 Transportation-Treasury-HUD 
Appropriations bill, the Committee faced a similar effort to cut 
transportation enhancements funding. The bill, as reported by the 
Appropriations Committee, included a provision that would have 
prohibited funds from being used for the ten percent set aside for 
transportation enhancements under the Surface Transportation Program. 
Subcommittee Chairman Petri and I offered an amendment to strike the 
anti-enhancements provision from the bill and the House overwhelmingly 
passed the amendment by a recorded vote of 327-90. This vote 
illustrates the tremendous support that exists among Members of 
Congress for transportation enhancements, the type of program that is 
disproportionately harmed by highway contract authority rescissions 
such as the one included in the Conference Report before us today.

Therefore, for both policy and procedural reasons, I oppose the 
rescission of highway contract authority as a means to offset non-
highway spending elsewhere in the budget.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that this House will have an opportunity to 
reconsider this decision in a future Supplemental Appropriations bill 
and I would like to make clear that, with the urgent climate change 
issues that our nation faces, I strongly oppose efforts to allow the 
continued raid of CMAQ and Enhancements funding.