# BELATED THANK YOU TO THE MERCHANT MARINERS OF WORLD WAR II ACT OF 2009
## `7174bbbb3f26e3449825cbfc0314517a`
`Mr. BUYER — 12 May 2009`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

This conversation we are having here on the floor with regard to 
degrees of valor is off the mark. Merchant mariners exhibited valor. 
They have been granted their veteran status. The question is whether we 
should now give them a service pension, which we do not do for any 
other veterans groups except the most highly decorated veterans, our 
Medal of Honor recipients.

The argument being made is that merchant mariners were shortchanged 
because they did not receive GI Bill benefits, unlike the members of 
the Armed Forces who then served in


World War II. However, 28 other groups that also provided military-
related service in the U.S. during World War II have received veteran 
status in the same manner as merchant mariners and, likewise, did not 
qualify for GI Bill benefits.

If equity were really the issue, this bill would help these groups, 
too. But H.R. 23, as amended, does not. This bill unfairly ignores them 
and, thus, does not provide full equity. It creates an inequity among 
veterans, distinguishing the value of one group over and above someone 
else, something that we don't do in the military. We're very cautious 
and very careful not to do that type of thing, to say that, well, if 
you're a combatant and you're on the front line, then your service is 
more important than someone who is in a rear echelon, or, gosh, if you 
were back in the home States or in the National Guard, then your 
service isn't as important as somebody who is on the battlefield. Time 
out. We don't do that in the military.

The reason we don't do that is we look at everybody as a team, as one 
team. So when we go to a theater of operations, it may take seven to 
actually put one combatant on the field of battle because everybody is 
important, from the theater Army all the way to the actual combatants. 
And as a matter of fact, when they fall on the battlefield, maybe when 
they go to Landstuhl, Germany, they come back to the States. Everybody 
is an important part of the team, and we don't then make discriminatory 
judgments that someone's military service is more important than 
another and, thereby, Congress then awards a service pension.

I'm just appealing to the Members do not do this. It will have 
consequences among the ranks and the services of our military.

I would like to talk about the other 28 groups. One of these other 
groups of veterans of whom are being discriminated here against if this 
legislation passes is the American all-volunteer group famously known 
as the Flying Tigers. They were American P-40 pilots and ground crews 
who worked for the Chinese Government in the air defense of Rangoon and 
other parts of China before and after the attack on Pearl Harbor. The 
Flying Tigers are credited with destroying an impressive 297 enemy 
aircraft and had one of the best kill ratios of any air group in the 
Pacific theater. There were approximately 80 pilots that flew for the 
Flying Tigers, of which 21 died in service.



An amazing 19 of them were credited with five or more air-to-air 
victories, making them aces. Nineteen out of the 80 pilots were aces. 
But they are not worthy for this service pension, okay, because we are 
not going to do that. Of the over 300 original members of the Flying 
Tigers, 18 of them are still alive today.

Another one of the groups that is being discriminated against here 
today I would like to highlight is the Women Airforce Service Pilots, 
the WASPS. There is even a colleague of mine who has legislation to get 
them the Congressional Medal of Honor. Yet a vote in favor of this 
legislation today discriminates against the Women Airforce Service 
Pilots. These were female pilots who flew every type of mission that an 
Army Air Force male pilot flew during World War II, except combat 
missions.

They freed up their male pilots for combat by flying planes from 
factories to air fields and flew over 60 million miles in every type of 
aircraft in the Army Air Force arsenal, from the fastest of fighters to 
heaviest of bombers. More than 25,000 women applied for WASPS service 
and less than 1,900 were accepted. After completing months of military 
flight training, 1,078 of them earned their wings and became the first 
women in history to fly American military aircraft. Thirty-eight of 
these brave women died while serving their country.

Madam Speaker, these are just some of the stories of two of these 
groups out of the 28 who all served loyally, selflessly, and 
courageously. Yet their service also contributed directly to victory in 
1945, but they are being ignored and discriminated against by the 
legislation before us.

In May 11 of this year, a letter to all Members opposing H.R. 23, as 
amended, the Veterans of Foreign Wars stated with respect to the 
Merchant Mariners of World War II that ''singling out this group, no 
matter how valiant their service, will create inequities. Congress 
should not single them out for special benefits when they are not 
provided to other groups.''

Madam Speaker, I offered an amendment at the full committee of H.R. 
23, as amended, to include these other 28 groups, who are similarly 
situated. It was rejected on a 15-14 vote.

I would like to insert the May 11, 2009, letter from the VFW and the 
names of the other 28 groups who have been granted veteran status of 
World War II to be placed into the Record.






















Veterans of Foreign Wars






















 of the United States,




















Washington DC, May 11, 2009.



 Dear Representative: This week, the House of 


 Representatives is expected to take action on H.R. 23, the 


 Belated Thank You to the Merchant Marines of World War II 


 Act. This legislation would grant a $1,000 monthly benefit to 


 individuals who served in the Merchant Marines between 


 December 7, 1941 and December 31, 1946, The Veterans of 


 Foreign Wars of the U.S. has serious concerns with the equity 


 of this bill, and we urge you to oppose it.



 The VFW has no doubt about the dedication and bravery the 


 Merchant Marines demonstrated during World War II. Their 


 contributions to the war effort in transporting cargo to keep 


 forces supplied enabled the Allied forces to win the War. 


 They suffered heavy casualties. with nearly one-in-26 dying 


 in the Atlantic theater. We value and salute their efforts.



 However, the VFW cannot support a special monthly benefit 


 for this single group. Merchant Marines are just one of 28 


 civilian groups that have been awarded Veterans status by 


 virtue of their military-related service. Not one of these 


 other 28 groups receives a special monthly benefit such as 


 this. In fact, the only group of veterans that receives a 


 special monthly benefit is Medal of Honor recipients.



 Singling this group out--no matter how valiant their 


 service--would create inequities. Congress should not single 


 them out for special benefits when they are not provided to 


 other groups, such as the Women's Air Force Service Pilots 


 (WASPs) or those honorably discharged members of ''The Flying 


 Tigers.'' Further, many World War II veterans who served on 


 the front lines are not receiving any form of compensation, 


 and certainly not a $1,000 monthly benefit. We cannot put one 


 group ahead of all others.



 The VFW is also concerned about the funding for this 


 proposal. The special monthly benefit would consume almost 


 $500 million of the VA's budget over the next five years. 


 With waves of service members returning from Iraq and 


 Afghanistan and presenting challenges for the entire VA 


 health care system, especially for those who are grievously 


 wounded, taking away money to give a special bonus to one 


 segment of veterans is not right. This is especially true 


 because the vast majority of the Merchant Marines covered 


 under this bill are already entitled to VA health care and 


 most veterans' benefits.



 The VFW greatly respects their bravery and their 


 dedication, but we cannot support legislation that singles 


 them out above other deserving groups. We ask you to keep 


 these issues in mind, and to oppose this bill's passage.





 Very truly yours,
























Robert E. Wallace,























 Executive Director.








 World War II Service by Particular Groups


A number of groups who provided military-related service to the 
United States can receive VA benefits. A discharge by the Secretary of 
Defense is needed to qualify. Service in the following groups has been 
certified as active military service for benefits purposes:
