# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `717b3fb071e76d2f1168bc5035cce3a1`
`Mr. OBEY — 28 July 2010`

---


Mr. OBEY. I thank the gentleman for the time. I thank him for his 
overblown words.

I do want to extend my best wishes to Bill Young, who is one of the 
most loved Members of this House and one of the most respected.

I also want to congratulate the gentleman from Texas for the superb 
job he has done in putting this bill together. It is a well-balanced 
bill, and everyone understands the gentleman's convictions and his 
passionate desire to defend the interests of American veterans.

Madam Chair, there are more than 6 million veterans and their 
families who depend on the Department of Veterans Affairs for medical 
care, for disability payments, and education benefits, and this bill 
represents our obligation to them. It builds on our actions of the last 
2 years, which have provided the most significant enlargement of 
education benefits for veterans since the passage of the original GI 
Bill of Rights.

One of the bill's highest priorities is to help cut through the 
bureaucracy that disabled veterans face over their claims. They 
shouldn't have to wait months and months for their paperwork to be 
processed before receiving the benefits owed to them. The bill provides 
for an additional 4,000 permanent claims processors--a 25 percent 
increase to work through more than 1 million disability claims.

These resources are especially needed now that the Vietnam veterans 
will be eligible to file claims for disabilities caused by Agent 
Orange. Veterans' medical care is the largest component of the bill. 
According to the VA, more than 6.1 million patients will be treated in 
2011, including nearly 440,000 veterans of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Now, many people think of veterans' health care as being solely 
focused on physical injuries. We understand now, better than ever, how 
combat threatens soldiers' mental health as well. We owe it to every 
one of them to address not only their physical wounds but also the 
mental and emotional consequences of war. This bill includes added 
resources for services to veterans suffering from traumatic brain 
injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and other mental 
conditions. Full access to this care remains a problem for some 
veterans, for seeing the right specialist can mean expensive trips and 
hours and hours in the car.

In Northern Wisconsin, for instance, there are tens of thousands of 
veterans who cannot regularly see counselors because there aren't vet 
centers anywhere near their homes. This bill makes critical investments 
to meet our obligations to them.

This bill also addresses the high rate of veterans' homelessness. On 
any given night last year, 107,000 veterans were homeless. That is 
shameful. With the goal of ending veterans' homelessness in 5 years, 
this bill matches the budget request for VA homeless assistance grants 
and supportive services for veterans and their families who need them.

At the end of the day, it is important to remember that this bill is 
not just about dollars and programs. It is about our duty to American 
veterans--to respect their service and sacrifice, not only with flowery 
words on the Fourth of July, but also with actions like this, on days 
like this, that are less noticed but every bit as important.

I congratulate the subcommittee for the bill that they have produced.