# FISCAL IRRESPONSIBILITY
## `717e331bd97fd1478556ab17a0e13a22`
`Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. I thank the gentlelady for yielding, and I 
thank her for her leadership on this.

As we take a look at this bill that just passed the House not 20 
minutes ago, I think it is important to know what is in this piece of 
legislation. This piece of legislation weighs about the same amount of 
weight as my 4-year-old son does. This piece of legislation is 3,565 
pages. It is 9,200-plus earmarks, 300 of which we just found out about 
today.



This bill costs $515 billion. This bill does a lot for a lot of 
Federal workers in the holiday season. It makes sure that all those 
Federal workers working at all the different government agencies have 
their budget for the year.

But what this bill does not do going into this holiday season, it 
does not give those soldiers in Iraq fighting for our freedom on the 
frontline of the war on terror, it does not give them one penny. It 
does not give them 1 minute's worth of comfort so that they have the 
resources, the tools, the body armor, the bullets, the gasoline, the 
rations, the support that they need to keep us safe and to fulfill our 
mission in fighting the war on terror where the epicenter is in Iraq.



It is a shame that we spend all of this time putting all of this 
money, all of this pork for all of these government agencies, making 
sure that bureaucrats here in Washington are comforted during this 
Christmas season, but not a penny to support our troops in harm's way 
in Iraq. That is a shame.

What is also a shame is this bill was dropped on the table today and 
passed today. Not a single Member of Congress read this entire bill; 
yet it passed and is on its way to becoming law.

It is also a shame that it is putting our Nation on a dangerous 
fiscal path. It is the beginning of the week, and we are going to put 
10,000 earmarks into law. At the end of the week, we will pass more 
legislation that will cost billions more. I am worried we may not 
actually patch the AMT because the majority here is insisting on having 
permanent tax increases to pay for that.

So while we have already seen the delay in Congress is costing people 
a 2-month delay in their refund checks from the IRS, if this Congress 
keeps on the track they are on, they will raise taxes on millions of 
Americans and businesses just to try to provide for a temporary 
prevention of a tax increase on 19 million additional taxpayers, 19 
million taxpayers who already, because of this delay, will see a delay 
in their refunds.

Mr. Speaker, this is not a good moment for the fiscal policy of our 
country. This is not a proud day for the House of Representatives to 
thump a 34-pound, 3,565-page bill on the desk and vote it out. But 
worst of all, it is not a good day for our soldiers, sailors, airmen 
and marines who are in the fight, who are on the front lines, who want 
our support, who deserve our support. That should have been taken care 
of before any single Member of Congress got their pork. Unfortunately, 
it wasn't, and that is what passed the House here this evening.

I see we are joined by several other colleagues who want to make 
comments on this. We have leaders here in the House of Representatives 
on fiscal conservatism, on fiscal responsibility, and I thank the 
gentlewoman who is controlling the time and thank her for her tireless 
leadership.