# None
## `717ebf21250c563879d090860b51a7e8`
`Mr. McKEON — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, as legislators, we meet once again to 
address a wide range of important national security activities 
undertaken by the Departments of Defense and Energy.

We all take our legislative responsibilities very seriously. This is 
especially true during a time of war, and it's always true of my good 
friend and colleague, Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton, 
the gentleman from Missouri. I commend Chairman Skelton for shepherding 
this bill through the conference process. Ike, you've done a remarkable 
job.

As most of you in the Chamber know, this conference report contains 
hate crimes legislation. This is anathema to me. I am opposed to hate 
crimes legislation, and I am especially opposed to the procedure of 
putting it on a Defense bill--especially in time of war, using our 
troops to get this legislation passed. It's not germane to the work of 
the committee and needlessly introduces a partisan matter in an 
otherwise bipartisan bill.

I've consistently opposed the passage of hate crimes legislation 
personally, and I continue to oppose it today. Unfortunately, 
congressional Democrats made the political decision to attach the hate 
crimes legislation to this bill. I oppose, as I said, using the men and 
women of the military as a leverage to pass this partisan legislation.

What should have been included in the bill is concurrent receipts. 
The House bill included a one-year expansion of concurrent receipts of 
military disability retired pay and veterans' disability compensation 
for our medically retired veterans. The House provision should have 
prevailed over the Senate procedural hurdles. We owe this to our 
veterans.

Though flawed, this bill has my support.

This conference report authorizes over $550 billion in budget 
authority for the Department of Defense and the national security 
programs of the Department of Energy. Additionally, the legislation 
authorizes over $129 billion in supplemental funding to support 
operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the global war on 
terror.

This bill rightfully acknowledges that the United States has a vital 
national security interest in ensuring that Afghanistan does not once 
again become a safe haven for terrorists and supports a comprehensive 
counterinsurgency strategy that is adequately resourced and funded by 
Congress.

The conference report supports our strategy in Afghanistan in a 
number of ways. The bill authorizes $1.3 billion for the Commander's 
Emergency Response Program, which is unique authority critical to 
implementing General McChrystal's counterinsurgency operations. 
Additionally, the conference report authorizes $7.4 billion for the 
Afghan Security Forces Fund. These funds are the key to increasing the 
size and professionalism of the Afghan National Security Forces.

Finally, this bill reauthorizes expired DOD contingency construction 
authority to rapidly authorize and build facilities needed to support 
the war in Afghanistan.

With respect to Iraq, the report ensures that the Congress will 
support the President's plan to redeploy combat forces while providing 
our commanders on the ground the flexibility to hold hard-fought 
security gains and to ensure the safety of our forces.

Mr. Speaker, as Members of Congress, we owe our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, and marines the very best available equipment, training, and 
support in order to provide them with the best possible tools to 
undertake their mission. The provisions in this bill go a considerable 
way in demonstrating this support. In particular, the House provision 
prevailed in a couple of critical areas.

This bill funds the alternate engine for the Joint Strike Fighter, 
provides $430 million in RDT&E for continued development of the F136 
engine, and provides $130 million for F136 engine procurement. Finally, 
the conference report includes a multi-year procurement contract for 
additional F-18s.

As a Nation, we owe more than our gratitude to the brave men and 
women in uniform and their families, past and present, for the 
sacrifices they make to protect our freedom. I am pleased that this 
legislation includes a 3.4 percent pay raise, which is a half 
percentage point above the President's request. We also increase active 
duty end strength by 55,227 over fiscal year 2009 levels. This is 
essential for easing the burden on our current forces.



I'm pleased that this conference report prohibits any increases to 
TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard health care fees. Finally, the bill 
increases from $500 to $1,100 the maximum monthly supplemental 
subsistence allowance paid by DOD to low-income members with 
dependents, so that military members need not rely on food stamps.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, I want to say to my fellow Republicans, I 
understand your opposition to the inclusion of hate crimes in the 
Defense authorization bill. I committed to each of you that this vote 
should be a vote of conscience, and I understand you're on the horns of 
a dilemma. I understand your opposition to hate crimes, and I 
understand this terrible position you've been put in. But I know that 
if you vote against this bill because of the hate crimes legislation, 
it does not diminish in any way your support of the troops and the men 
and women in our Armed Forces.

When I became ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, I made 
a commitment to each of you and our men and women in uniform and their 
families that I would do everything in my power to provide our 
soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines with the support they desperately 
need and deserve. As the ranking member of the Armed Services 
Committee, so long as America's sons and daughters are under fire in 
combat, fighting for our country, I have the obligation to support them 
first above everything else.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.