---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7181880877e76fd488dc448f4cb71e29`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. JSTARS has proven itself to be a critical asset to our 
military since deploying to Iraq in 1991. It is one of the most highly 
tasked systems in our fleet today. Our commanders in the field are 
constantly asking for JSTARS so they can access its tremendous ISR 
capability to give them a long-range view of the battlefield and detect 
moving targets in all weather conditions. There is no other current or 
programmed aircraft or weapons system that can provide the detailed, 
broad-area ground-moving target indicator and airborne battle 
management support for the warfighter than JSTARS provides.

The Chief of Staff of the Air Force, GEN Norton Schwartz, has stated 
that the Air Force is ''all-in'' for the joint fight. JSTARS is truly a 
joint platform. Flown by a mixed active-duty Air Force/Air Guard unit, 
it operates with an Army and Air Force mission crew and, in 
Afghanistan, also with a Marine. It also supports missions of all the 
military services.

With over 55,000 combat hours and 900 sorties flown by only a handful 
of airplanes over Iraq and Afghanistan, JSTARS has directly contributed 
to the discovery of hundreds of IEDs.

Having flown with the 116th Air Control Wing out of Robins Air Force 
Base in Warner Robins, GA, I have seen firsthand the remarkable 
capability that JSTARS can bring to the battlefield in support of our 
warfighters. Although developed and built to fight the Cold War for 
tracking Soviet troop movements, JSTARS is an integral part of today's 
battlefield and will be even more relevant in the near future.

JSTARS needs to be modified with new engines to keep this critical 
asset available to better support our soldiers. Air Force studies show 
the airframe is sound and will be useful well beyond 2050. JSTARS faces 
limitations in operational restrictions because the engines are the 
original 1960s-era engines. They have never been replaced. They are old 
and expensive to operate and maintain. Replacing them is a safety issue 
as well as an operational necessity.

What this sense-of-the-Senate resolution does is to emphasize the 
importance of funding the re-engining of the JSTARS weapons system.

And it is my hope that in conference, the chairman and the ranking 
member will do what they can to make sure this funding is available. I 
have talked with Senator Inouye as well as Senator Cochran about this. 
They are well aware of the value of this weapons system. It has been 
funded in the House appropriations bill. By adopting this sense-of-the-
Senate amendment, it sends a strong message for the conferees to do 
everything possible to make sure the appropriate funding will be 
available when this conference report returns to the Senate.
















 Exhibit 1





 The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 





 Technology and Logistics,















 Washington, DC, September 30, 2009.

