---
---

# CORPORAL CHRISTOPHER E. ESCKELSON POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `7182453aeac0951969416bd1e9836c2f`
`Mr. KILDEE — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me this 
time.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to be the sponsor of H.R. 2276. H.R. 2276 
will designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located 
at 203 North Main Street in Vassar, Michigan, as the ''Corporal 
Christopher E. Esckelson Post Office Building.''

Corporal Esckelson of Vassar, Michigan, heroically gave his life 
fighting for our country in Fallujah, Iraq, on December 28, 2006, 2 
days shy of his 23rd birthday. Corporal Esckelson, the squad leader of 
12 men, suffered a direct hit while inspecting a truck in war-torn 
Fallujah, Iraq.

Corporal Esckelson's leadership qualities came to fruition long 
before he began to serve our country. An outstanding athlete at Vassar 
High School, Christopher Esckelson played the game of football like he 
did life, with great passion. That same passion is what drove the 
aspiring doctor to join the Marines shortly after the September 11 
attacks.

He once told his mother, Michelle Hill, that whatever life might 
bring, he still would have been a marine.

His early time in the Marine Corps Reserve allowed him to earn money 
to pay for classes at Delta College, where he studied premedicine. 
Other activities Corporal Esckelson enjoyed were hunting with his 
father, David, and brother, Craig, as well as spending time with his 
girlfriend, Samantha Reasner, who last saw him when she drove him to 
the airport when he left for basic training.

His last contact with his family came 2 days before Christmas 2006 
when he left on a 5-day mission which would ultimately be his last.

For his heroism, Corporal Christopher E. Esckelson deserves our 
recognition and thanks. Designating this postal facility in Vassar, 
Michigan, where his mother works will allow all who enter the post 
office the unique opportunity to be mindful of the sacrifices brave 
young soldiers like Christopher have made and continue to make today.

I would like to thank the entire Michigan delegation for their 
support on this legislation, and urge all of my colleagues to join me 
in passing this legislation.