---
---

# None
## `718ee455bfda7fda4d2253ae058cf5af`
`Mr. KYL — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Madam President, I, too, wanted to echo the comments of the 
distinguished Senator from Connecticut. I am sure Senator Warner will 
be recognized many times between now and the time he finally takes his 
last vote in this Chamber, and as he pointed out, he has a long way to 
go before that time comes over the course of the next several months. 
But so many of us respect what he has done over the years as ranking 
member and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, and his work will, 
in fact, be greatly recognized.



Madam President, I wish to make one quick point in response to what 
the Senator from Connecticut pointed out, recalling his very famous 
father, somebody who served in this body and served our Nation well in 
other capacities, including at Nuremberg, and his friend, Justice 
Jackson, the same Justice Jackson whom I quoted.

The Senator wasn't on the floor, but I quoted Justice Jackson in the 
Eisentrager case to point out that nothing could fetter our commanders 
more than to require habeas corpus rights for the German prisoners of 
war or the prisoners who were at issue in the Johnson v. Eisentrager 
case. Justice Jackson himself recognized that the procedures that were 
awarded to the 50-some war criminals at Nuremberg were not the same 
kinds of procedures that were being sought in the Eisentrager case. And 
the habeas corpus rights that would be granted under the Leahy 
amendment are far different from the rights that were granted to the 
Nuremberg war crimes defendants.

I think one question that would be interesting to ask of the 
proponents of the legislation is, if we simply took the rights that 
were granted to the war criminals tried at Nuremberg and gave those 
rights to the detainees at issue here, would that be a satisfactory 
result? I suspect the answer would be no because they are nowhere near 
the rights that would be included in the amendment that is pending.

So to cite Justice Jackson is to refer back to what he said in 
Eisentrager and recognize that nothing, according to him--and I agree--
would more fetter our commanders and our troops than granting habeas 
rights to prisoners or enemy detainees.

Madam President, I might make one further point. I am trying to 
recall how many defendants there were at Nuremberg. My recollection of 
the number tried for war crimes is that there were approximately 50. I 
may be off by a few on that number, but I think my point would still 
remain, which is that it is one thing to try 50 war criminals out of 
over 2 million POWs, and it is quite another to grant all 2 million the 
rights of war criminals. We have tried some of the detainees as the 
equivalent of war criminals in our courts--Padilla is one of them--but 
that is not to say we should hold the same criminal trials for all of 
the tens of thousands of detainees being held in Iraq or Afghanistan.