---
---

# None
## `71920cecb79e98e6cc0fb4d3896e4129`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. I shall not use all of that time, Mr. 
Speaker, but I am very much tempted, because my good friend--and he is 
my good friend--seems to fail to understand some of the things that we 
do and have done.

One of the things that I think would help some context and 
perspective is the subject of jobs, which should be and I believe is 
the concern of the 435 voting Members of the U.S. House of 
Representatives and the six Delegates and Representatives from the 
Territories.

Let's not continue down the path of myth. When my mom was alive, she, 
like many of our mothers, became interested more in what we do in 
Congress by looking at it on television. At some point, I don't 
remember the day when I came home and she said, Y'all always talk about 
what happened before. She said, you know, Ford said Nixon did it, and 
Carter said Ford did it, and Reagan said Carter did it, and then Bush 
said Reagan did it. She said if you do that, then George Washington 
must have done it if you just keep going back all the time.

So let's start with some real numbers, not something that is created, 
and get one thing straight: When we talk about spending, whether it's 
Republicans or Democrats that spend on behalf of the American people, 
we rarely do anything other than talk about cost. We don't talk about 
benefits.

Toward that end, I would only use two, and I have a considerable list 
of areas that I could address that the Democrats have spent money on. I 
would ask any of our colleagues, do they feel that we should not have 
spent $31 billion in science, technology, innovation, math education, 
cutting-edge research and advanced manufacturing technologies and 
workforce training? That was passed by the House of Representatives.

I would ask my friend, is there anything about national security 
troops and veterans that they would not have spent? The fiscal year 
supplemental for the rest of 2009 provides our troops with everything 
they need to wind down the war that we shouldn't have been in in the 
first place, Iraq, and change the strategy in Afghanistan, requiring a 
progress report and making retroactive payment to 185,000 plus 
servicemembers whose enlistments were involuntarily extended since 9/
11. That was signed into law. Would they not have spent that money?

Would they not have spent the money expanding the new GI Bill 
benefits to cover the full cost of college education for all children 
of fallen United States servicemembers? That was signed into law.

Would they not have spent the money on the 3.4 percent raise for our 
troops, strengthening military readiness, expanding support for 
military families such as health care and housing, focusing on our 
strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan and redeployment from Iraq and 
military procurement reform? That was signed into law.

Would they not have spent the money on one of our top priorities of 
veterans groups, authorizing Congress to approve VA medical care 
appropriations 1 year in advance to ensure reliable and timely funding 
and prevent politics from ever delaying VA health care funding? That 
was signed into law.

Would they not have spent the money on strengthening quality health 
care for more than 5 million veterans by investing 15 percent more than 
2009 for medical care, benefits claims processors and facility 
improvements? That was passed by the House.

I could go on the entire 15 minutes on that, but let me go to where I 
digressed from. Richard Nixon created during his administration and 
received credit for--and that's what these Presidents do--the creation 
of 9.4 million jobs. Under President Ford, under strenuous 
circumstances, his administration was credited with creating 1.8 
million jobs.

Under President Reagan coming in with a near identical in many 
respects, absent 9/11. And a footnote right there. When my colleague 
mentioned Katrina, I am sure he knows that we haven't finished what's 
needed to be done with reference to the people on the gulf coast and 
specifically in the City of New Orleans. But to President Reagan's 
credit and during his administration and whatever tax decreases or 
however else it was achieved, I can assure you of the exact number of 
16 million jobs. Under President George H.W. Bush, 2.5 million jobs. 
Under Bill Clinton, 23.1 million jobs. Under President Bush, and my 
friend from Texas' majority Congress, that at one point had the House, 
the Senate and the Presidency, under his administration, taking into 
consideration everything that he has talked about, 3 million jobs, the 
worst track record on record.

Now, what's needed here, Mr. Speaker, is some fair and 
straightforward accounting and not the off-budget stuff that I have 
heard here during the period of time that I am here and that I heard 
from my colleague.

What this bill will do and what this rule permits us to discuss is 
not off-budget kind of accounting. Is it sort of like the same kind of 
off-budget accounting that Wall Street does that my friends on the 
other side seem to think that we should do? No, fair and 
straightforward accounting.

My good friend from California that I served with on the Africa 
Subcommittee, when he was in the majority, we traveled together, an 
outstanding person and Congressperson. But when he came in here, he 
described that accountants say this is a moral hazard. I will tell you 
what a moral hazard is. A moral hazard is putting wars off-budget and 
not being prepared to pay for them and not asking the American people 
to make the necessary sacrifices in order that all of us, rich and 
poor, black and white, conservative and liberal, will pay our fair 
share to protect this great country of ours. Enough of all of this doom 
talking and finger-pointing. What is needed is a great consensus for 
all of us to be able to go forward to straighten out our Nation, and we 
can do this. I believe that we will.

One of the primary culprits of this current recession was a 
regulatory system that looked out for the wealth of Wall Street firms 
rather than the security of average American consumers. This 
legislation, however, recognizes that the strength of our financial 
system is not measured simply by the value of the Dow Jones, it's 
measured by the prosperity of the American people.

One of my friends, Phil Hare, who is here, says, it ain't the GDP, 
it's the j-o-b. I believe, Mr. Sessions k-n-o-w-s what I am talking 
about. Our constituents deserve to know that they are not going to be 
taken advantage of by the institutions to which they have entrusted 
their financial security. They deserve to know that our financial 
regulations will stop those institutions who engage in irresponsible 
practices


without placing an unnecessary burden on those who are acting in the 
best interests of their consumers.

They deserve to know that this Congress, Republican and Democrat, 
should not, and I believe the Democrats will not stand idly by, 
allowing monstrous financial institutions to put our entire economy at 
risk, rake in billions and shell out egregious bonuses while everyday 
Americans lose their life savings and struggle from paycheck to 
paycheck.

As to the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we should 
give Barney Frank and the Financial Services Committee, Republican and 
Democrat, every credit for extraordinary work in these extremely 
difficult times for our country. This act makes reasonable and 
responsible changes to our financial regulatory system and enacts long-
needed consumer protections. After months of debate, countless hearings 
and votes on this very floor, this rule will finally allow for its 
complete and timely consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on 
the rule.

I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the previous question 
on the resolution.

The previous question was ordered.