---
---

# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `71b3347011233df1c17d5dbae0d8bdf5`
`Mr. BENNET — 21 November 2009`

---


Mr. BENNET. Madam President, I would like to first thank the Senator 
from Vermont for his excellent remarks in support of what is, after 
all, just a vote to get us started on the debate on health care, a 
procedural vote to allow us to be able to amend and improve the bill in 
the coming weeks.

Madam President, virtually every single Member of this body in the 
Senate is a Member of the baby boom generation. In my view, it is a 
generation of Americans--I was born in the last year of that 
generation--given more opportunity than any generation of people in the 
history of this planet because our grandparents and our parents were 
willing to make hard choices, understanding that part of our national 
creed, part of our legacy is assuring that we are expanding opportunity 
for those who come after us.

We are having this health care debate at a moment in our country's 
history beset by incredible economic difficulties. This is the worst 
recession since the Great Depression. But we now know even during the 
period of economic growth before our economy fell into this terrible 
recession that working families were struggling.

During the last period of economic growth, median family income in 
the United States actually declined. As far as I know, it was the first 
period of recovery in the history of the United States when median 
family income actually went down. It was at the same time the cost of 
health insurance was soaring--in my State by 97 percent--with the cost 
of higher education in my State going up by 50 percent.

We were saying to working families: You are living in an economy with 
incredible weakness, where the growth is surging ahead of a mountain of 
debt, but you are not getting ahead.

Just this week, we learned that in the great State of California they 
are increasing the tuition for their universities by 30 percent. The 
University of California, the California system has been the envy of 
the world for decades, and now it is being put out of the reach of 
working families.

So we have much to do--much to do--to make sure we honor the legacy 
of our parents and our grandparents. We honor the legacy of the 
''greatest


generation'' and this generation, the baby boom generation, to ensure 
that we leave behind us not diminished opportunity but more opportunity 
for our kids and our grandkids.

There is much we need to do to make sure we have a health care system 
that works not just for a few people but for everyone, an education 
system that works not just for a few kids but for everyone, and that we 
have an economy in the United States that values the contribution that 
everybody can make.

My sense in this health care debate is that the people of my State--
and I know people around the country--are deeply dissatisfied with 
business as usual. They hate the current system. They know it is not 
working for them and their families. They know they are not able to 
make the choices they need to make to have stability for their families 
so they can get ahead economically.

But, on the other hand, they are deeply worried about our capacity to 
make it worse. It is hard to blame people when you hear the special 
interests' rhetoric coming out of Washington, DC, or when you turn on 
your cable television set at night and watch what people have to say. 
You can understand why people are concerned that we have the capacity 
to make it worse.


But that is why I am so pleased about the piece of legislation the 
majority leader has brought before us. We have never been closer to 
reforming our health care system, so we can address runaway health care 
costs, enact insurance reform, construct stability and predictability 
in health care for families and small businesses.

The Senate legislation before us is that promising new way forward. 
Coloradans, as I said, have not been shy at all about letting me know 
about their views of the current system and what their concerns are 
about what we might do.

Like people across the country, they know the current system does not 
work for them. But they are worried, as I said a minute ago, that we 
are going to make it even worse.

This bill represents a substantial improvement over business as 
usual. I congratulate the majority leader for listening to not just a 
small group of people but to people across the aisle, to people all 
across the country in crafting this piece of legislation.

First of all, the most important principle of the bill is that it is 
paid for. We already had about $5 trillion of debt when the last 
President became President. We are now at $12 trillion. There has been 
an unbelievable spike between 2000 and today. We have put an enormous 
burden--as the father of three young girls, I feel this very personally 
and very keenly--an enormous burden on our kids and our grandkids.

Our debt is now $12 trillion. Our entire gross domestic product--our 
entire economy--is $14 trillion. Our deficit is $1.4 trillion, 12 
percent of our gross domestic product. That is utterly unsustainable. 
We know the biggest driver of our medium-term deficits is rising 
Medicare and Medicaid costs, and the biggest driver of those is rising 
health care costs.

This bill, unlike Medicare Part D--a very worthy program passed 
during the last administration--this bill is paid for. That drug 
program for seniors was not paid for. Instead of paying for it, instead 
of making hard choices, what we said to our kids and our grandkids was: 
You pay the bill. By the way, that is what we have said about tax cuts. 
That is what we have said about the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. We 
have to put an end to this. This bill at least starts to head us in the 
right direction. It does not fix our fiscal crisis, but it is an 
important step forward.

As I mentioned a few minutes ago, for working families, the current 
system has been a complete disaster, as their income has remained flat 
or gone down, as their health care premiums have gone up by 97 percent. 
Even though there is a lot of conflict out there about what the way 
forward should be, about a specific policy choice here versus a 
specific policy choice there, I can tell you, one thing everyone in my 
State agrees with is that their health care has not improved by 97 
percent over the last 10 years. They are paying more and getting less. 
Coverage is getting weaker, as it gets more expensive.

Small businesses are getting crippled by the system we have today. 
They pay 18 percent more than large businesses to cover their 
employees, just because they are small. Sometimes people say to me: 
Well, Michael, don't you know that is because the pool of employees is 
smaller? It is harder to spread the risk. I say: I understand that. But 
as a businessperson, from a business perspective, that is ridiculous--
the idea that a small businessperson, trying to execute their business 
plan, trying to execute their vision to grow their business, is going 
to spend 18 percent more for something and not get 18 percent more 
productivity out of it, or not get 18 percent, in this case, better 
health care coverage out of it. In fact, the reverse is true. It is 
ridiculous.

By the way, one of the things that is interesting to me about this 
debate over a public option is that people do not seem to understand 
what is actually happening before our eyes. As the costs of insurance 
are going up every year, few and fewer people are able to get insurance 
through their employer, fewer and fewer employers are able to offer 
insurance to their employees, which is heartbreaking for many of our 
small business owners because these are family businesses that for 
years have provided health insurance to their employees. They view it 
as part of their pact with their employees to help them get ahead. But 
they cannot do it. So they are dropping them from the rolls.

Where are these folks ending up, those who are now uninsured? Well, 
two places: Medicaid, if they are poor enough, or in the emergency 
room, getting covered with uncompensated care that we, the taxpayers, 
are paying for.

We have a public option. It is the least intentional and most 
expensive public option you can imagine. When we are talking about the 
changes we are making here, we need to understand what is going on in 
the daily lives of people all across our country.

The figures we have from the Congressional Budget Office show that 
this bill will reduce the deficit, not add to it, will cut our deficits 
over the first 10 years by $130 billion, over the next 10 years by $650 
billion. That is $780 billion.

One thing we know about those numbers is they are not going to turn 
out to be exactly accurate. But here is the goods news: The CBO is 
unable to score the benefit of prevention. They are unable to score the 
benefit of wellness. They are unable to score or focus on primary care 
instead of emergency room care. There is good reason for that because 
that comes down to execution--how well is the program implemented. 
Those of us who are proponents of reform carry a very heavy burden to 
make sure the execution is good and that we carry this through. But the 
good news is, if we do a good job, we will save money.

I want to say a word about Medicare because there has been a lot of 
discussion from people who are opposed to reform who are saying we are 
cutting Medicare. They are saying we are hurting seniors. But what they 
will not tell you is that the worst possible scenario is not taking 
action now on critical Medicare reform. As I said earlier, and said in 
many speeches, our Medicare Program, on its current path, is headed for 
fiscal crisis.

Policy experts on both sides of the aisle have said we need to reform 
our Medicare delivery system. We need to stop basing payments on every 
procedure and every test. Instead, we should look at successful models 
such as our own Denver Health, the Rocky Mountain Health System, and 
the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. We know they have better quality and 
better outcomes, not just for seniors but for everyone.

This bill builds on what works locally. That means protecting the 
guaranteed Medicare benefits for every senior, and for years to come. 
It improves Medicare solvency. We make sure doctors will not see a 20-
percent cut in their payments. It makes the entire Medicare system more 
affordable and will save taxpayer dollars.

Critics say no to reform. They are content with a system that pays by 
the test, test after test, instead of outcomes and patient-centered 
care. That approach will assure that Medicare is bankrupt by 2017. We 
need to do better than that for seniors. We need to protect Medicare.

Included in this health care reform bill is a version of a bill I 
introduced


based on great work being done in Colorado. It is called the Medicare 
Care Transitions Act. We looked at the $17 billion Medicare was 
spending on hospital readmissions. Currently, one out of every five 
patients leaves the hospital and returns within the same month. We 
looked at places in Denver and Grand Junction where the readmission 
rates are 2 percent compared to the national rate at 20 percent. What 
we saw was that they coordinate care. As people go from place to place, 
these health care systems track where they go with a system of 
electronic medical records, what medications they use, what doctors 
they see. They focus on patients--on patients--when making decisions. 
So when we talk about these delivery systems being unnecessary, tell 
that to the 12 million Medicare seniors who got readmitted to the 
hospital within the very first month they were let out of the hospital. 
We owe so much more to these seniors, and we owe a lot more to the 
American people.

Health care reform must stop the rising costs that are bankrupting 
working families, small businesses, and our economy. If you like your 
coverage, you should be able to keep it. We need to put an end to 
denials based on preexisting conditions. We need to give people more 
affordable options, including a public option. One thing is clear. 
Business as usual cannot be an option. The debate is bigger than 
politically charged issues. We have to keep our eye on the ball and not 
get distracted by the same old, tired, special interest politics that 
have kept us from reforming our health care system since Harry Truman 
was President.

Health care reform should not be about changing our laws on abortion. 
I think the House went astray when it adopted new language with 
unintended consequences for women. The Senate bill already makes sure 
we do not use taxpayer dollars to fund abortion. That is why I opposed 
the House Stupak language.

I want to end this morning on what I am for. I am for insurance 
reform. I am for making our small businesses more competitive by 
reining in skyrocketing health care costs. I am for reducing premiums 
for working families. I am for more consumer choice, including the 
ability to voluntarily choose a public option. By the way, one thing I 
have noticed is that as people start to understand they are going to be 
required to have health insurance as part of this plan, what they are 
saying is, I want all the options. I want a private option, a public 
option, a nonprofit option. I want to be in a position to make the best 
decision for my family.

I am for reform that squeezes our wasteful spending so we can reduce 
our deficits in the long term. Throughout this entire debate, my focus 
has been on our working families and small businesses. There is plenty 
in this bill for you.

The time for talking is over. We should pass this bill. But tonight 
what we should do is make sure we allow the Senate to debate the bill, 
to improve the bill. There are things in this bill I want to change and 
things I want to make better in the coming weeks. But I believe that if 
we pass this reform, we will have taken a very important step forward 
to saying we are here to honor the legacy of our parents and our 
grandparents. We are here to say as one generation to the next that we 
are going to carry that legacy forward and make sure we are making the 
hard decisions to provide more opportunity for you, not less. This is 
only one step of that.

I mentioned education earlier. I mentioned our economy earlier. My 
hope is that in this debate, what we can do is begin to learn how to 
set the special interests aside for the benefit of the American people. 
If we can do that, there is not a doubt in my mind that we will honor 
our grandparents' legacy.

Thank you, Madam President. I yield the floor.