---
---

# ANGLO-IRAQI TREATY OF 1930
## `71b34f0855d274dcb8a47a9c47c60fde`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, the reports out of Iraq these days make 
2008 sound an awful lot like 1930. That's when the British strong-armed 
a so-called treaty to take control of Iraq's oil wealth. And it 
remained that way for decades until the people in the Middle East 
nationalized their oil wealth to end outside control. But western oil 
interests and the neocons have wanted it back ever since.

War Secretary Donald Rumsfeld may have said that invading Iraq had 
nothing to do with oil, but the announcement that western oil companies 
would get what they have lusted for says otherwise.

And editorial cartoonist Rob Tornoe of politicker.com summed up the 
world view the other day in a cartoon displayed right here next to me. 
He spoke truth to power with one compelling image. He says all at once 
that this entire war, its tragic casualties and immense cost, was all 
about oil.

As so many suspected all along, Secretary of State Rice tried to 
claim that the U.S. Government played no role whatsoever in securing 
sweetheart oil deals for Iraq's sweet crude oil. But the New York Times 
reported in a front page story, ''A group of American advisers led by a 
small State Department team played an integral part in drawing up 
contracts between the Iraq Government and five major western oil 
companies.''

The immense oil reserves beneath Iraq are the world's second largest, 
and western oil companies want them, just as they did 78 years ago. And 
like 1930, they plan to permanently occupy Iraq. To remove any doubt 
from the minds of the American people, I would like to enter into the 
Record the entire Angelo-Iraqi Treaty of 1930.

Let's look at Article 5. It says that maintaining order inside Iraq 
is the primary responsibility of the Iraq Government. But then it 
immediately says that Iraq recognizes and accepts Britain's role inside 
Iraq and grants Britain the right to build air bases and maintain 
military forces inside Iraq.

That is exactly what the President and this administration has been 
saying all along.

The President has made it clear he wants the U.S. to stay in Iraq 
permanently. In 1930, they didn't call it occupation, they called it a 
treaty. And they are doing it all over again.

Here's another example. The Angelo-Iraqi Treaty of 1930 addresses 
immunity for British forces and unlimited rights to bases and troop 
movements. And this administration is doing the same thing. People like 
Jonathan Schwartz on the Web site democrats.com, Internet sites like 
After Downing Street and newspapers like the Independent have all 
examined the 1930 document and compared it to current proposals. They 
conclude the date is different and it is now the U.S. instead of the 
British Empire.

Seventy-eight years later, the West is again trying to assume control 
of the Middle East under the guise of protecting them from themselves. 
In 2003, Donald Rumsfeld addressed U.S. troops in Baghdad and said, 
''Unlike other armies in the world, you come not to conquer, not to 
occupy, but to liberate.''

In 1917, British General Stanley Maude, addressing Iraqis in Baghdad, 
said, ''Our armies do not come into your cities and lands as 
conquerors, but as liberators.'' The only new thing this administration 
added was that our soldiers would be greeted by flowers. We know that 
was not true, just as we know the entire basis for the U.S.-led 
invasion of Iraq was not true.

When the Prime Minister of Iraq the other day said that he wants a 
timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. forces, the President said no, he 
wants Americans in Iraq indefinitely.

The calendar may say 2008, but this administration is acting like 
it's 1930 all over again. A journalist has just summed it up in a 
cartoon. There lies Saddam, and the new statue will be the logos of our 
five favorite oil companies.

If we ignore the lessons of history, we are doomed to repeat the 
mistakes of history.











 The Anglo-Iraqi Treaty of 1930




 Treaty of Alliance between His Majesty in respect of the 


 United Kingdom and His Majesty the King of Iraq. Signed at 


 Baghdad, June 30, 1930.



 His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the 


 British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, and His 


 Majesty the King of Iraq, whereas they desire to consolidate 


 the friendship and to maintain and perpetuate the relations 


 of good understanding between their respective countries; and 


 Whereas His Britannic Majesty undertook in the Treaty of 


 Alliance signed at Baghdad on the thirteenth day of January, 


 one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six of the Christian 


 Era, corresponding to the twenty-eighth day of Jamadi-al-


 Ukhra, one thousand three hundred and forty-four, Hijrah, 


 that he would take into active consideration at successive 


 intervals of four years the question whether it was possible 


 for him to press for the admission of Iraq into the League of 


 Nations; and



 Whereas His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom of 


 Great Britain and Northern Ireland informed the Iraq 


 Government without qualification or proviso on the fourteenth 


 day of September, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine 


 that they were prepared to support the candidature of Iraq 


 for admission to the League of Nations in the year one 


 thousand nine hundred and thirty-two and announced to the 


 Council of the League on the fourth day of November, one 


 thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine, that this was their 


 intention; and



 Whereas the mandatory responsibilities accepted by His 


 Britannic Majesty in respect of Iraq will automatically 


 terminate upon the admission of Iraq to the League of 


 Nations; and whereas His Britannic Majesty and His Majesty 


 the King of Iraq consider that the relations which will 


 subsist between them as independent sovereigns should be 


 defined by the conclusion of a Treaty of Alliance and Amity:



 Have agreed to conclude a new Treaty for this purpose on 


 terms of complete freedom, equality and independence which 


 will become operative upon the entry of Iraq into the League 


 of Nations, and have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries:



 His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland, and the 


 British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, for 


 Great Britain and Northern Ireland: Lieutenant-Colonel Sir 


 Francis Henry Humphrys, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal 


 Victorian Order, Knight Commander of the Most Distinguished 


 Order of Saint Michael and Saint George, Knight Commander of 


 the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, Companion of 


 the Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, High 


 Commissioner of His Britannic Majesty in Iraq; and



 His Majesty the King of Iraq: General Nuri Pasha al SA'ID, 


 Order of the Nadha, Second Class, Order of the Istiqlal, 


 Second Class, Companion of the Most Distinguished Order of 


 Saint Michael and Saint George, Companion of the 


 Distinguished Service Order, Prime Minister of the Iraq 


 Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs; Who having 


 communicated their full powers, found in due form, have 


 agreed as follows:

















 Article 1




 There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between His 


 Britannic Majesty and His Majesty the King of Iraq.





 There shall be established between the High Contracting 


 Parties a close alliance in consecration of their friendship, 


 their cordial understanding and their good relations, and 


 there shall be full and frank consultation between them in 


 all matters of foreign policy which may affect their common 


 interests.



 Each of the High Contracting Parties undertakes not to 


 adopt in foreign countries an attitude which is inconsistent 


 with the alliance or might create difficulties for the other 


 party thereto.

















 Article 2




 Each High Contracting Party will be represented at the 


 Court of the other High Contracting Party by a diplomatic 


 representative duly accredited.

















 Article 3




 Should any dispute between Iraq and a third State produce a 


 situation which involves the risk of a rupture with that 


 State, the High Contracting Parties will concert together 


 with a view to the settlement of the said dispute by peaceful 


 means in accordance with the provisions of the Covenant of 


 the League of Nations and of any other international 


 obligation which may be applicable to the case.

















 Article 4




 Should, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 3 above, 


 either of the High Contracting Parties become engaged in war, 


 the other High Contracting Party will, subject always to the 


 provisions of Article 9 below, immediately come to his aid in 


 the capacity of an ally. In the event of an imminent menace 


 of war the High Contracting Parties will immediately concert 


 together the necessary measures of defence. The aid of His 


 Majesty the King of Iraq in the event of war or the imminent 


 menace of war will consist in furnishing to His Britannic 


 Majesty on Iraq territory all facilities and assistance in 


 his power including the use of railways, rivers, ports, 


 aerodromes and means of communication.

















 Article 5




 It is understood between the High Contracting Parties that 


 responsibility for the maintenance of internal order in Iraq 


 and, subject to the provisions of Article 4 above, for the 


 defence of Iraq from external aggression rests with His 


 Majesty the King of Iraq. Nevertheless His Majesty the King 


 of Iraq recognises that the permanent maintenance and 


 protection in all circumstances of the essential 


 communications of His Britannic Majesty is in the common 


 interest of the High Contracting Parties.



 For this purpose and in order to facilitate the discharge 


 of the obligations of His Britannic Majesty under Article 4 


 above, His Majesty the King of Iraq undertakes to grant to 


 His Britannic Majesty for the duration of the Alliance sites 


 for air bases to be selected by His Britannic Majesty at or 


 in the vicinity of Basra and for an air base to be selected 


 by His Britannic Majesty to the west of the Euphrates. His 


 Majesty the King of Iraq further authorises His Britannic 


 Majesty to maintain forces upon Iraq territory at the above 


 localities in accordance with the provisions of the Annexure 


 of this Treaty on the understanding that the presence of 


 those forces shall not constitute in any manner an 


 occupation and will in no way prejudice the sovereign 


 rights of Iraq.

















 Article 6




 The Annexure hereto shall be regarded as an integral part 


 of the present Treaty.

















 Article 7




 This Treaty shall replace the Treaties of Alliance signed 


 at Baghdad on the tenth day of October, one thousand nine 


 hundred and twenty-two of the Christian Era 1, corresponding 


 to the nineteenth day of Safar, one thousand three hundred 


 and forty-one, Hijrah, and on the thirteenth day of January, 


 one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six, of the Christian 


 Era 2, corresponding to the twenty-eighth day of Jamadi-al-


 Ukhra, one thousand three hundred and forty-four, Hijrah, and 


 the subsidiary agreements thereto, which shall cease to have 


 effect upon the entry into force of this Treaty. It shall be 


 executed in duplicate, in the English and Arabic languages, 


 of which the former shall be regarded as the authoritative 


 version.

















 Article 8




 The High Contracting Parties recognise that, upon the entry 


 into force of this Treaty, all responsibilities devolving 


 under the Treaties and Agreements referred to in Article 7 


 hereof upon His Britannic Majesty in respect of Iraq will, in 


 so far as His Britannic Majesty is concerned, then 


 automatically and completely come to an end, and that such 


 responsibilities, in so far as they continue at all, will 


 devolve upon His Majesty the King of Iraq alone.



 It is also recognised that all responsibilities devolving 


 upon His Britannic Majesty in respect of Iraq under any other 


 international instrument, in so far as they continue at all, 


 should similarly devolve upon His Majesty the King of Iraq 


 alone, and the High Contracting Parties shall immediately 


 take such steps as may be necessary to secure the 


 transference to His Majesty the King of Iraq of these 


 responsibilities.

















 Article 9




 Nothing in the present Treaty is intended to or shall in 


 any way prejudice the rights and obligations which devolve, 


 or may devolve, upon either of the High Contracting Parties 


 under the Covenant of the League of Nations or the Treaty for 


 the Renunciation of War signed at Paris on the twenty-seventh 


 day of August, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.

















 Article 10




 Should any difference arise relative to the application or 


 the interpretation of this Treaty and should the High 


 Contracting Parties fail to settle such difference by direct 


 negotiation, then it shall be dealt with in accordance with 


 the provisions of the Covenant of the League of Nations.

















 Article 11




 This Treaty shall be ratified and ratifications shall be 


 exchanged as soon as possible. Thereafter it shall come into 


 force as soon as Iraq has been admitted to membership of the 


 League of Nations. The present Treaty shall remain in 


 force for a period of twenty-five years from the date of 


 its coming into force. At any time after twenty years from 


 the date of the coming into force of this Treaty, the High 


 Contracting Parties will, at the request of either of 


 them, conclude a new Treaty which shall provide for the 


 continued maintenance and protection in all circumstances 


 of the essential communications of His Britannic Majesty. 


 In case of disagreement in this matter the difference will 


 be submitted to the Council of the League of Nations. In 


 faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed 


 the present Treaty and have affixed thereto their seals. 


 Done at Baghdad in duplicate this thirtieth day of June, 


 One thousand nine hundred and thirty, of the Christian 


 Era, corresponding to the fourth day of Safar, One 


 thousand three hundred and forty-nine, Hijrah.



 (L. S.) F. H. Humphrys.


 (L. S.) Noury Said.











 Annexure to Treaty of Alliance




 1. The strength of the forces maintained in Iraq by His 


 Britannic Majesty in accordance with the terms of Article 5 


 of this Treaty shall be determined by His Britannic Majesty 


 from time to time after consultation with His Majesty the 


 King of Iraq. His Britannic Majesty shall maintain forces at 


 Hinaidi for a period of five years after the entry into force 


 of this Treaty in order to enable His Majesty the King of 


 Iraq to organise the necessary forces to replace them. By the 


 expiration of that period the said forces of His Britannic 


 Majesty shall have been withdrawn from Hinaidi. It shall be 


 also open to His Britannic Majesty to maintain forces at 


 Mosul for a maximum period of five years from the entry into 


 force of this Treaty. Thereafter it shall be open to His 


 Britannic Majesty to station his forces in the localities 


 mentioned in Article 5 of this Treaty, and His Majesty the 


 King of Iraq will grant to His Britannic Majesty for the 


 duration of the Alliance leases of the necessary sites for 


 the accommodation of the forces of His Britannic Majesty in 


 those localities.



 2. Subject to any modifications which the two High 


 Contracting Parties may agree to introduce in the future, the 


 immunities and privileges in jurisdictional and fiscal 


 matters, including freedom from taxation, enjoyed by the 


 British forces in Iraq will continue to extend to the forces 


 referred to in Clause 1 above and to such of His Britannic 


 Majesty's forces of all arms as may be in Iraq in pursuance 


 of the present Treaty and its annexure or otherwise by 


 agreement between the High Contracting Parties, and the 


 existing provisions of any local legislation affecting the 


 armed forces of His Britannic Majesty in Iraq shall also 


 continue. The Iraq Government will take the necessary steps 


 to ensure that the altered conditions will not render the 


 position of the British forces as regards immunities and 


 privileges in any way less favourable than that enjoyed by 


 them at the date of the entry into force of this Treaty.



 3. His Majesty the King of Iraq agrees to provide all 


 possible facilities for the movement, training and 


 maintenance of the forces referred to in Clause 1 above and 


 to accord to those forces the same facilities for the use of 


 wireless telegraphy as those enjoyed by them at the date of 


 the entry into force of the present Treaty.



 4. His Majesty the King of Iraq undertakes to provide at 


 the request and at the expense of His Britannic Majesty and 


 upon such conditions as may be agreed between the High 


 Contracting Parties special guards from his own forces for 


 the protection of such air bases as may, in accordance with 


 the provisions of this Treaty, be occupied by the forces of 


 His Britannic Majesty, and to secure the enactment of such 


 legislation as may be necessary for the fulfilment of the 


 conditions referred to above.



 5. His Britannic Majesty undertakes to grant whenever they 


 may be required by His Majesty the King of Iraq all possible 


 facilities in the following matters, the cost of which will 


 be met by His Majesty the King of Iraq. 1. Naval, military 


 and aeronautical instruction of Iraqi officers in the United 


 Kingdom. 2. The provision of arms, ammunition, equipment, 


 ships and aeroplanes of the latest available pattern for the 


 forces of His Majesty the King of Iraq. 3. The provision of 


 British naval, military and air force officers to serve in an 


 advisory capacity with the forces of His Majesty the King of 


 Iraq.



 6. In view of the desirability of identity in training and 


 methods between the Iraq and British armies, His Majesty the 


 King of Iraq undertakes that, should he deem it necessary to 


 have recourse to foreign military instructors, these shall be 


 chosen from amongst British subjects. He further undertakes 


 that any personnel of his forces that may be sent




 abroad for military training will be sent to military 


 schools, colleges and training centres in the territories of 


 His Britannic Majesty, provided that this shall not prevent 


 him from sending to any other country such personnel as 


 cannot be received in the said institutions and training 


 centres. He further undertakes that the armament and 


 essential equipment of his forces shall not differ in type 


 from those of the forces of His Britannic Majesty.



 7. His Majesty the King of Iraq agrees to afford, when 


 requested to do so by His Britannic Majesty, all possible 


 facilities for the movement of the forces of His Britannic 


 Majesty of all arms in transit across Iraq and for the 


 transport and storage of all supplies and equipment that may 


 be required by these forces during their passage across Iraq. 


 These facilities shall cover the use of the roads, railways, 


 waterways, ports and aerodromes of Iraq, and His Britannic 


 Majesty's ships shall have general permission to visit the 


 Shatt-al-Arab on the understanding that His Majesty the King 


 of Iraq is given prior notification of visits to Iraq ports.
