---
---

# TRIBUTE TO 1ST INFANTRY DIVISION
## `71b9f921c03d549177f870b6a37b0fbd`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 7 June 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, on June 8, 1917, the U.S. Army 
officially organized the First Expeditionary Division. That means 
tomorrow is the 90th anniversary of what is now known as the 1st 
Infantry Division or the ''Big Red One,'' headquartered at Fort Riley, 
KS. The Big Red One has an unsurpassed history of answering the call to 
duty, and it is vital to our Nation's fight against determined enemies. 
We are fortunate to have these fine soldiers defending our freedom.

As the oldest, continuously serving division in the history of the 
U.S. Army, the Big Red One enjoys a long


and proud tradition of defending America. It also has a tradition of 
being the first. During World War II, Big Red One was the first to 
reach England, the first to capture a German city, the first to fight 
in North Africa, and the first on the beaches of Normandy on D-day. It 
was the first division to deploy to Vietnam and spearheaded the armored 
attack into Iraq at the start of Desert Storm. The Big Red One has a 
long and proud heritage that we should honor and celebrate.

On August 1, 2006, I was proud to welcome the Big Red One's 
headquarters back to Fort Riley, KS. The division has a vital, new 
mission of training military transition teams for both Iraq and 
Afghanistan. This intense training is meant to prepare our finest 
military members to train their counterparts in the Iraqi and Afghani 
militaries. We honor those soldiers who have committed to this mission. 
I also want to recognize the 1st Division soldiers operating today in 
some of Baghdad's toughest neighborhoods. They too take their place in 
the Big Red One's proud history.

On this 90th anniversary, June 8, 2007, I salute the men and women of 
the U.S. Army 1st Infantry Division, the Big Red One. The enormous 
sacrifice and dedication of these heroic men and women should make all 
Americans proud. As they say in the 1st Division: ''No mission too 
difficult, no sacrifice too great. Duty first.''
