---
---

# RECOGNIZING CLOSE U.S.-U.K. RELATIONSHIP
## `71bf4dc17e7001d4348900cb2676f9cd`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 12 May 2010`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. I thank my dear friend Ms. Ros-
Lehtinen and also my friend Mr. Engel for their help in getting this 
resolution to the floor and their strong support of this important 
resolution.

I take this opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to congratulate the United 
Kingdom's new Prime Minister, David Cameron, as he, as head of the 
Conservative Party, forms a new government with the Liberal Democrats. 
We wish him and all of the British people all the best. It's important 
that we in Congress take the time to recognize that great friend and 
ally of the United States. It is important that we recognize the 
special friendship and all that the United Kingdom has done to stand 
with the United States.

This resolution recognizes the special relationship between the 
United Kingdom and the United States. It points out the strong 
influence that English philosophers, economists, jurists and other 
leaders have had on American political thought, on the United States 
legal system and on our government. This strong special relationship, 
founded on our shared history, continues into the modern day. The 
United Kingdom has repeatedly demonstrated the strength of its 
camaraderie with the United States.

Within the last decade, the United Kingdom joined forces with us 
against the Taliban as part of Operation Enduring Freedom, and U.K. 
soldiers have fought alongside American soldiers in Iraq. The United 
Kingdom has suffered a tragic loss of life as a result. As of March, 
273 U.K. military and civilian personnel have given their lives in 
Afghanistan, and 179 have given the last full measure of devotion in 
Iraq.

I am very proud, Mr. Speaker, to have introduced this resolution, 
highlighting the strong ties that bind our countries together. The 
United Kingdom is a great friend and ally of the United States. 
Reflecting on our relationship, Winston Churchill said, ''In this 
century of storm and tragedy, I contemplate with high satisfaction the 
constant factor of the interwoven and upward progress of our peoples. 
Our comradeship and our brotherhood in war were unexampled. We stood 
together, and because of that fact, the free world now stands. Nor has 
our partnership any exclusive nature: the Atlantic community is a dream 
that can well be fulfilled to the detriment of none and to the enduring 
benefit and honor of the great democracies.''

During the most trying times in the history of the United States, we 
have had no truer friend than the United Kingdom. I sincerely hope that 
our futures will continue to reflect our histories, deepen our 
friendship and continually refresh our commitment to the shared values 
of the rule of law and democratic principles. I urge all of my 
colleagues to support this important and, I believe, timely resolution.