---
---

# FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `71c0960e113d5a030d4aee886d3a178c`
`Ms. LEE — 31 January 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the continuing resolution.

Today we are in this colossal mess because last year's Republican 
Congress failed to do its job.

Instead of passing the necessary spending bills to fund our 
Government, Republicans decided they would rather pass the buck.

Instead of owning up to their failure today, Republicans are crying 
foul! What hypocrisy Mr. Speaker!

Under Republican rule we have seen our country's finances literally 
flushed down the toilet. Our Nation's debt grew by over $3 trillion 
thanks to the Republicans. They passed massive tax cuts for the ultra 
rich. They got rid of common sense pay-as-you-go rules. And they 
started a completely unnecessary war in Iraq, whose true cost of nearly 
$450 billion, they have tried to hide from taxpayers.

They had their chance to try and make amends last year, but they 
failed to act.

Today Democrats are picking up the pieces and leading our country in 
a new, fiscally responsible, direction.

This CR eliminates all earmarks, suspends the Congressional pay raise 
and provides critical increases to a number of important programs this 
year.

In particular, I want to thank Chairman Obey and my colleagues on the 
appropriations committee for providing over $4.7 billion for our global 
AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria programs in FY07. This money will 
ensure the continued scale-up of these programs and will provide 
lifesaving anti-retroviral therapy to another 350,000 people this year.

I am also very pleased that the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) will receive an increase of $300 million for its 
public housing operating fund. This money will help the Oakland Housing 
Authority in my district to keep our public housing units open so that 
we can provide stable housing to thousands of low-income individuals 
and families who are in need.

Additionally the $1.4 billion increase for Section 8 housing programs 
and the change in formula will provide housing assistance for a quarter 
of a million people and help California get its fair share of funding 
to reflect rising rental costs in our state.

Although not perfect, today's CR sends a very powerful message that 
the Democratic Congress is strongly committed to helping those who are 
most vulnerable in a fiscally responsible manner.

Although we have still got a long ways to go to re-order our Nation's 
priorities, this CR is the first step. I urge my colleagues to support 
it.