# NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `71c51f28f6ecf60981a04f8af7c90801`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio — 7 May 2008`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. Chairman Waters, I want to salute you and the 
work you've done in the housing area in Financial Services. Everybody 
knows that the Housing Subcommittee under your leadership has focused 
on issues important to everyday people, and I want to thank you for 
that leadership.

And, Madam Chairman, you know what is the most amazing thing when I 
sit on the floor of this House? All the superfluous stuff that is 
discussed when a piece of legislation that's sorely needed by the 
people of America comes to the floor.

Now it was a Republican administration for the past 8 years that has 
oversight on oil. If they wanted to do something about it, they could 
have done it by now. Why are they bringing it up on the housing 
legislation? Let's talk about oversight of all those billions of 
dollars that got lost in that truck in Iraq. This Republican 
administration.

But before I get lost, let me come to why I'm standing here. I stand 
here to


support the legislation because the city of Cleveland is in desperate 
straits around this particular problem: Housing and foreclosures. I am 
so pleased that I have been able to add an amendment that would 
simplify the Federal historic rehabilitation tax credit in the process 
of this so that we can use some of this historic housing to be able to 
make some changes in the lives of the people.

It's just an amazing thing. I know the people of America are out 
there listening, and they're looking at who is it that is stepping up 
for them when they're in trouble? Who is it that understands that they 
need to pay their homeowner costs, their costs for their housing? And 
who is it to say, no, we're going to wait to try to figure out 
something else, add a new law. Come on now.

Vote for this legislation.