---
---

# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `71c75853c18d28e667c1bab253b06594`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to share some thoughts about the 
situation we find ourselves in. I do feel some obligation to comment on 
the nature of the debate we are having, although I do not want to 
descend into partisanship.

I would say that Senator Specter, I believe, is absolutely correct 
when he says the Republican Members of this body are not afraid to 
vote. They are prepared to vote on the Warner resolution. They are 
prepared to vote on the McCain resolution. They will vote on the Judd 
Gregg resolution. But the problem is the Democratic leadership only 
wants one vote, and that is a vote on their resolution. So we have had 
a vote. Less than 50 voted to go forward. So I do not see how we are at 
a point where it can be suggested the members of this side are afraid 
to have a vote.

Why are they afraid to have two more votes, I would ask? I am not 
afraid to vote. I know how I would vote on those amendments. I am going 
to vote against the amendment that disapproves of the policies we are 
sending our troops to execute. And I am going to vote for the other 
amendments of McCain and Gregg--if I had the chance. That is a minimum. 
There may be others. Senator Specter indicated he would like to vote on 
something else.

But in truth, as I have said before, I am not happy about this whole 
resolution process. We are not in the business of resolutions here. We 
are in the business of funding or not funding the policies of the 
United States of America. We have committed to funding the policy that 
is now being executed. We have confirmed the general who will execute 
that policy. Therefore, that is what we are about. That is the action 
we have taken.

But, in general, let me say this one more thing because it touched my 
heart. Less than 30 minutes ago, right out here, I met an Alabamian 
whose son is at Fort Benning, a first lieutenant in the U.S. Army, an 
infantry officer. He thanked me for not going along with this negative 
resolution idea, and said: Senator, these soldiers are ''watching 
what you do like a hawk.''


Don't think what we do is just a gambit to embarrass the President. 
We face many difficult decisions, pressures. We wrestle with competing 
interests and emotions in this Senate. We have high hopes and dreams 
for America. We do not all agree, and we should not. Ours is, at its 
best, a democracy where robust and intelligent debate informs our 
decisions. It makes us better. And we should respect one another even 
while we disagree. But this is a big deal. Lives are at stake. But this 
is what democracy is about. I want to be sure that when I say I believe 
someone is making a mistake, I am not attacking their character.

In the end, if a democracy cannot reach a decision on important 
issues, act decisively and execute those decisions, it will be weak and 
it will fall prey to the cruel, the despotic, and the strong. In order 
to avoid indecisiveness and weakness, there are some important common 
principles we must share. They are built, I believe, on love of country 
and a sincere belief in and admiration for this great Republic we 
serve. That is the unifying principle.

An extended, dangerous, and costly war in Iraq is not what we had 
hoped would occur when over three-fourths of the Members of this body--
and I was here--voted to authorize the use of force against Saddam 
Hussein. Certainly, I had hoped and have always favored bringing troop 
levels down as soon as we can. The difficulties we face have caused, 
understandably, much unease and frustration in our country. Things have 
not been going well. That is a true fact. The circumstances are grave, 
and our efforts in Iraq could fail, as General Casey and his 
replacement, General Petraeus, have made clear, although, in truth, 
these professionals have also made it clear they believe we can and 
will succeed if we carry out the new policy that is now being projected 
in Iraq.

A congress of a nation, constructed like ours, that aspires to be a 
great nation and a great congress must consider how it should respond 
to such difficult circumstances in this winter of our discontent. How, 
now, should we think about the tough challenges we face?

First, I believe the results of a failure and a precipitous 
withdrawal from Iraq are grave and ominous. No one disputes that. Chaos 
and ethnic cleansing, death to those who put their lives on the line 
for freedom and democracy would likely result, and more. Bad things 
would occur. We have had testimony on that.

So to even those few now here in this Senate who voted against the 
use of force, and to our newer Members of the Senate who are on record 
as being opposed to the policy, I say let's get together. Let's see how 
we can deal with the problems we now face so our Nation and its 
policies can be successful.

Few decisions are totally right or totally wrong. Sometimes things go 
better than expected. Sometimes they do not go as well. The test of a 
healthy and strong nation is how it handles adversity.

To those who oppose our efforts in Iraq, I would say that it would be 
a defensible position, I have to say, if you feel that strongly about 
it, to vote to cut off funds that would in effect force an immediate 
withdrawal. But, in truth, even when Senators truly believe our efforts 
in Iraq were a mistake, a mature patriotic assessment of the short and 
long-term consequences of such a withdrawal must be considered.

Immediate withdrawal is not a good option. It is not a good option. 
That is obviously why so many of our Democratic colleagues who are not 
happy with this war have not proposed such a step.

The one thing that is not acceptable is to take action--to take any 
action or concrete steps--to further the President's policy and then to 
vote for a resolution that makes it less likely to succeed. This is 
especially true when this Congress has committed our military personnel 
to this task, placing them in harm's way to execute the mission this 
Republic has given them.

Our military personnel have placed their very lives, their every 
waking moment, on the line to achieve the mission that is assigned to 
them. They are doing that every day. I have been there five times. We 
have a moral responsibility to them that must not be lightly broken.

That commitment also goes to those many allies who have supported us, 
our friends in the region, and the good and decent Iraqis who voted for 
and stood up for democracy and freedom.

If this is a true concept--and I believe it is--then I urge, with 
respect and with deep sincerity, that my colleagues do not give their 
support to any resolution that is likely to make our praiseworthy goal 
of a free and stable Iraq more difficult to achieve.

A resolution that is not binding but adversely impacts our efforts, 
with all due respect, is a vote that cannot be justified. Other than 
perceived personal political benefits, or ''making a statement,'' what 
benefit does such a vote provide our Nation's efforts? It has no 
impact. Negative resolutions, therefore, can only place our soldiers, 
whom we sent to execute this policy, at greater risk. It can only place 
them at


greater risk and make their task harder. Those in harm's way deserve 
our total support, and the policies we have asked them to execute 
should also have our total support, until such time as we withdraw it.

I urge my colleagues to think this through. Let's pull back from this 
precipice--not just from this vote but from votes in Congress that may 
come in the future. Let's reassert our time-honored tradition that 
''politics stops at the water's edge,'' that politics must never place 
soldiers at unnecessary risk. Let us not go down the road of passing 
resolutions whose only purpose is to emote, to express doubt about our 
Nation's decided policy during a time of great challenge and risk.

A Senate of a great nation doesn't use a toothless resolution to 
vent. What good does such a thing do? Surely, we all understand, as did 
our Founders, that there can only be one policy, one Commander in 
Chief, and one Congress. The Congress can cut off funds and stop it, if 
they are so strongly committed to do so. But we are not doing that.

How have we slid into such a muddle? The answer is that politics 
seems to have taken over everything around here; it infects our very 
being, even during war. It is a dangerous trend. We are used to 
''splitting the difference'' here. Compromise is the nature of the 
game, we are told, and indeed it is. You favor a $100 million program, 
perhaps, and I oppose it; and maybe we end up compromising on $50 
million. The thing may have worked at $50 million, or it might have 
been a failure at $50 million. Who knows? But we compromise. But that 
is about money. This is about war, about the life and death of people, 
as fine as you can find in this country, who volunteered to serve us.

Some may say it is not certain that negative resolutions will weaken 
the resolve of our friends and hurt the morale of our soldiers and 
embolden our enemies. Logic, however, says it will. Maybe you disagree. 
But how can it be otherwise? Logic says it will. General Petraeus said 
it well a few days ago. Negative resolutions will likely have negative 
consequences on our policy and place at greater risk the lives and 
health of our soldiers. What other purpose is there for this 
resolution, other than to somehow ratchet up the effort to force an 
abandonment of the policy we have funded and we are now executing.

Indeed, the whole world will think such a resolution that expresses 
only ''feelings'' represents a weakening of American will, even while 
the actual policy we are funding is to increase our strength and 
commitment to the Iraq effort. Think about it. As their foundations, 
these negative resolutions can only be described as totally 
contradictory to our policy that we are at this moment executing. New 
troops are moving there right now. Some have already arrived in Iraq. 
Have you not heard that?

For those unhappy and worried, I say let's get busy, all of us, and 
do a better job. Let's find out more about this difficult struggle that 
we are engaged in, find out more about Iraq, find out more about what 
our troops need, what their challenges are and what can and cannot be 
done. Let's meet with General Pace and General Casey and Secretary 
Gates; let's read the periodic reports that General Petraeus will be 
sending and spend more time keeping up with the situation on the ground 
in Iraq, rather than on polling numbers in our States. If we then reach 
a point of no return, when our honest and best judgment is that success 
is not possible, then we can join with those few who are prepared to 
cast votes to force an end to our deployment in Iraq. That is what we 
are supposed to do.

Certainly, at this point, none can honestly say that we know what the 
outcome will be. I wish I could give full assurance of success, but I 
cannot. We do know this is a very difficult time. Al-Qaida is still 
active, despite heavy losses and an inability--we may thank the Lord--
to attack us again on our homeland, so far. The Iraqi Government has 
not been strong and decisive, and violence, especially in Baghdad, has 
steadily increased. The al-Qaida attack on the Samarra Mosque last 
February, designed to create sectarian violence in the country, 
succeeded in sparking a spate of sectarian killing and reprisals that 
continue today.

Still, General Abizaid and General Casey, our former commander, and 
General Petraeus, our new commander, know the true situation there 
better than we do. General Abizaid has been there four years, I 
believe, and General Casey, 30 months. They have lived it. They have 
studied it. They sincerely believe and have publicly stated, under 
oath, that this surge of American troops, with a surge of Iraqi troops 
and the new tactics to be employed, can lead to the goals that we 
seek--a stable, peaceful, and prosperous Iraq. It can be successful. We 
should not be overly negative. Indeed, I asked this question of General 
Petraeus. A few days ago in his testimony, he said he would not take 
this job if he didn't believe he would succeed. General Petraeus 
commanded the 101st Airborne Division when they went into northern 
Iraq, in Mosul. He did a fabulous job. They jokingly called him the 
''mayor of Mosul.'' We toured the area the projects he had worked to 
establish. He understands the need of walking the streets and talking 
with the Iraqi people and encouraging them to take over their country. 
He came home, and then they asked him to go back and train the Iraqi 
security forces and he agreed to do so. He left his family again and 
went back and spent a year in Iraq. I am sure he knows every top 
general by name in the Iraqi Army, or virtually all of them. He spent 
another year there doing that. Then he came back and he spent a year 
drafting and writing the Department of Defense counterinsurgency 
manual. It is 100 or more pages, a big document; it is a very 
important, complex, carefully worked out document that tells how to 
confront and defeat an insurgency operation. That is the plan we have 
asked him to go back with now. I believe we need to give General 
Petraeus a chance.


We have lost over 3,000 lives in our Iraq effort. The losses, in my 
view, are less than expected during the initial assault on Baghdad in 
Iraq and far more than I expected in the aftermath. Much of this, I am 
sure, was the result of errors we made. Much arises from the inherent 
difficulties of the tasks that were underestimated. Of that, there can 
be no doubt. But no Government agency even comes close to our military 
in being brutally honest and doing after-action reports and self-
evaluations. That is going on now and will continue for years. They are 
a magnificent force. I can only believe that if we truly support them, 
as a great Senate and a great Congress should when they are executing 
the policies we have directed them to execute, they will be successful. 
I further believe it is premature for us to withdraw. We owe it to 
those State Department officials, other Government agencies, NGOs, 
patriotic Iraqi civilians who voted for a new and better Iraq, to the 
Iraqi security forces who have taken more casualties than we have, to 
those international allies who have stood with us in Iraq and, most of 
all, to our military personnel who have given their heroic best to 
accomplish our Nation's just and decent goals in Iraq, to give this new 
policy and General Petraeus a chance. I think they can and will do it. 
But I do not doubt the difficulties and I do not doubt there is 
uncertainty.

If, heaven forbid, our efforts do not prevail, it will be appropriate 
to completely rethink our commitment to Iraq. So why do we want to pass 
a resolution? Senator Reid says he wants to provide Senators a chance 
to show their disapproval of the President's policy. With respect, 
Senator Reid has--I know it is unwitting and unintentional--crossed the 
line there. It is clear that this resolution, which has no binding 
effect and is only a political document, is not necessary, does not 
help, and I totally oppose it. It is wrong, in my view.

While our soldiers are courageously placing their lives on the line 
for us, and while there is no serious suggestion that we should cut off 
the funds for the surge the Commander in Chief has ordered and which 
the Baker-Hamilton group suggested might be necessary, a toothless 
resolution is the wrong thing to do. I am certainly glad it did not 
garner many votes.

So can we, for a while at least, stand united in our good and worthy 
efforts to help the people of Iraq achieve a decent, peaceful and 
stable Government? Can't we do that? The challenge remains great. The 
costs are high. I say


let's follow through, united, on this new strategy under our new 
general. I believe we can be successful. If the Iraqis fail to respond 
and if the new strategy is not effective, we will know soon enough. And 
an honest, professional, and realistic evaluation of what to do next 
will fall into our hands. We should complete that task effectively, 
giving our best effort and judgment to it.

I yield the floor.