# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `71c846767f7d450a5aff227959ee492b`
`Mr. DREIER — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, we all hate the fact that we have to deal with this war 
on terror. September 11, 2001, changed the lives of every single one of 
us. And it is painful and, as I said earlier, the most difficult part 
of our job is to call the families of loved ones who've paid the price 
in Afghanistan, Iraq or any other spot in the world. And we all hope 
and pray that we never, ever have to do it again.

We also recognize that we have to come together and ensure that our 
men and women in uniform who are on the front line in this battle 
against radical extremism have what they need.

Now, the American people are sick and tired of wasteful Federal 
spending. But the American people also understand, Mr. Speaker, that 
the five most important words in the middle of the preamble of the 
United States Constitution are, in fact, ''provide for the common 
defense.''

Virtually everything else that we do, other than our Nation's 
security, can be handled by individuals, by families, by churches and 
synagogues and mosques, by counties, by cities, by States. But our 
national security can only be handled by the Federal Government.

Now, the President of the United States has just issued what we refer 
to by the acronym a SAP around here. It's a Statement of Administration 
Policy. And while we sit here having a debate, which I think is very 
important for us to have, the President has said that if we don't 
provide him a clean bill that is independent of all these other 
extraneous matters--and by the way, if they all don't pass, this bill 
just dies and we have to start over again--he will veto it.

And so it is fascinating. We, as Republicans, and many thoughtful 
Democrats, have stepped up to the plate and said that we will join with 
the President to ensure that that $33.5 billion that is needed is there 
for our men and women in uniform.



We've heard from the distinguished ranking member of the Committee on 
Armed Services, who talked about the fact that just this week General 
David Petraeus, Secretary Gates, and others have said we must have this 
funding by July 4. This is Thursday evening, July 1. The request was 
made in February. The Senate passed, by a 67-28 vote on May 27, this 
bill, and here we are just 3 days before this time by which the 
Secretary has said they need these resources.

And what is it we're doing? We're adding spending, we're shifting 
some 10-mile stretch in Pennsylvania from one district to another. What 
does that have to do with an emergency supplemental? And we're 
increasing spending when the American people have said we need to bring 
about responsible spending cuts.

We can do better, Mr. Speaker. We can do better. We can immediately, 
after defeating this rule, go upstairs and bring down a rule that will 
allow us to let Members of Congress who are opposed to providing that 
$33.5 billion the opportunity to vote ''no,'' and those of us who want 
to provide those resources for the troops to vote ''yes.''

And so, Mr. Speaker, let's vote ''no'' on this rule. Let's move ahead 
right now. Let's do what we can to bring this war to an end so that our 
men and women can come home just as quickly as possible. And the best 
way to do that is to ensure that they have what it takes so that they 
can be successful.

I yield back the balance of my time.