---
---

# None
## `71cd97804d136e626eb3895ad07e51c7`
`Mr. CHILDERS — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. CHILDERS. I want to thank Chairman Skelton and the Armed Services 
Committee for bringing this important legislation to the floor and for 
allowing me to introduce this amendment.

The uncertainty of whether or not a company will be awarded a 
military contract, as well as the finite period of time required to 
fulfill a contract, means that many times contractors are stuck in a 
cycle of ramping up and ramping down employment and, consequently, 
hiring, laying off, and rehiring employees. My amendment addresses this 
issue in the production of the various types of MRAPs our soldiers use 
for transportation and protection from IEDs in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The First District of Mississippi calls itself home to Navistar 
Defense, which produces the MRAP. Last year, Navistar was forced to lay 
off hundreds of employees when one of its contracts ended. More 
recently, Navistar was awarded another contract, requiring them to 
rehire 800 employees in order to meet the production deadlines put in 
place by the military. But the majority of these employees will be laid 
off again in October when the contract is completed.

My amendment ensures that the Department of Defense begins to look at 
ways that we can meet our military needs while at the same time making 
contracting decisions that save taxpayer money and keep skilled workers 
employed for sustainable amounts of my time.

I urge my colleagues to pass this amendment.