---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `71ce35d11fe0586f2853e011e714aa09`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, after five years, thousands of lives 
lost, and hundreds of billions of dollars spent and trillions to go, 
the amendments adopted today are the beginning of a solution in Iraq. 
These amendments mandate the beginning of withdrawal, setting us on a 
path out of Iraq, and support critical domestic and international 
priorities.

The language offers some of the same prescriptions in my own Iraq 
legislation, including a ban on permanent bases and an increase in 
contractor oversight. All too often we hear reports of billions of 
dollars our contractors can't account for, or the hiring of individuals 
our troops can't rely on. This war will cost over $3 trillion, and I am 
pleased to see some funding shifted to cover more of our international 
obligations. I authored legislation to help the 4 million displaced 
Iraqis and I support the funding in this bill for migration and refugee 
assistance and international disaster assistance. We have a 
responsibility to the Iraqi people, and as we have an obligation to 
provide for our own.

Part of remedying this tragedy will be rebuilding the health and 
readiness of our armed forces. In my state, the Oregon National Guard's 
41st Combat Brigade Team has served two tours in Iraq and Afghanistan 
since 9/11, and is scheduled to deploy again in 2009. When they return, 
these brave men and women deserve the best care this country can 
provide and the least we can do is make sure education and retraining 
is available and affordable. I am proud to support an expansion of the 
GI Bill education benefits that proved so successful in transitioning 
our troops after W orId War II and in mobilizing our economy for 
succeeding generations. Frankly I find it unconscionable that President 
Bush, as Commander in Chief of our armed forces, would threaten to veto 
this legislation on account of this basic and historic investment in 
our troops.

This country is ready for change, and these amendments are an 
important step forward. As this issue develops over the coming weeks, I 
remain committed to getting our troops out of Iraq now and providing 
our veterans with the best care available.