---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `71cf1db884c07b84862ea8d51582dc37`
`Mr. CONYERS — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of ''H.R. 2956, The 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act,'' and had I been on the floor 
today, I would have voted ''yes.''

Unfortunately, I was unable to attend due to the fact that I was 
given the high honor of receiving the NAACP Spingarn Award. However, 
this is an extremely important piece of legislation. One of our 
greatest responsibilities is the protection of our soldiers. The 
Democrats are determined to end this war and bring our young men and 
women back home. H.R. 2956 will now provide such a policy that will 
allow us to meet our national security interests in Iraq and the 
broader Middle East region by maintaining a minimal force. The 
Administration has provided a failed policy and it is time for a new 
direction. We understand that this transition must be well thought out 
and handled responsibly; with a view toward an enduring national 
security interest in the region.

This legislation, acknowledges that our military has accomplished the 
mission they were given in the original 2002 authorization to use force 
and that Iraq must now take leadership for its own future. For years 
Democrats have advocated for the responsible redeployment of American 
forces from Iraq. The relocation and redistribution of our soldiers is 
long overdue and enough American lives have been sacrificed for a 
failed policy. Democrats have argued that the Iraqis must take primary 
accountability for their country and their security. American presence 
in Iraq must be re-focused away from playing referee in a civil war. We 
must focus and limit our efforts to military missions such as counter-
terrorism, training Iraqi security forces and protecting American 
personnel at the embassy.

The bill requires American forces to begin redeploying within 120 
days and to complete the transition to a limited presence by April 1, 
2008. The bill also requires a comprehensive strategy by January 1, 
2008 for U.S. policy in Iraq, including a discussion of American 
national security interests in Iraq and the broader region, the 
specific missions remaining forces would undertake, and minimum force 
levels required to accomplish them. Finally, it requires the President 
to submit updates on the use of and need for any forces remaining in 
Iraq every 90 days starting on July 1, 2008. The President has been 
given ample time to bring our soldiers home. It is now time for us to 
act on their behalf.

I am committed to the homecoming of our brave men and women who have 
so valiantly completed their mission. So, I am honored to support this 
legislation.