---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1538, WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE  ACT OF 2007
## `71d6b3e7f61ddb9111bd4150102dbc3e`
`Mr. ARCURI — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from the Rules 
Committee for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the rule and the 
underlying bill, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act.

Improvements in medical technology over the years allow for more 
servicemen and -women to survive injuries sustained in battle. During 
World War II, for every soldier that was killed, two were wounded. Now, 
this ratio is up to 16 to 1. These incredible medical developments 
allow many more men and women to return home to their families, but 
their injuries tend to be much more serious and, in many cases, require 
additional care for the rest of their lives.

Last month, I had the opportunity to visit with wounded soldiers 
recovering at Walter Reed Medical Center. I met several young men 
wounded in Iraq, one a constituent of mine from upstate New York. As I 
stood next to the mother of one of the soldiers, I saw a look of 
sadness on her face, and at that point it struck me, what if one of my 
two teenage children were lying in that bed? I know that I would want 
the absolute best treatment and care for my children, and our brave 
troops deserve nothing less.

Sadly, the administration's mismanagement of the war in Iraq has 
extended to the home front as well. The selfless men and women who 
volunteered to defend their country have been callously neglected and 
were not only sent into battle without adequate resources, they also 
returned home to inadequate resources. When they asked for help, no one 
answered.

We make a promise to our soldiers to provide for them when they 
return home from battle, and it is absolutely unacceptable that this 
promise has been broken.

The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act will ensure that more than 25,000 
servicemembers who have sustained injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan 
receive the world-class treatment and care and services they have so 
bravely earned and deserve. This bill creates an efficient system for 
the transition of records from the Department of Defense to the 
Veterans Administration. It establishes a support system of counselors, 
advocates and case managers to ensure timely, comprehensive care; and 
it establishes a number to call to report problems in facilities so 
that when a soldier asks for help someone answers.

Mr. Speaker, our men and women in uniform deserve the absolute best 
care that this Nation has to offer. I urge my colleagues to renew our 
promise to our veterans by supporting this rule and the underlying 
bill.