---
---

# TURKISH THREATS TO U.S.--GENOCIDE RESOLUTION
## `71d839c36ad344c9c4a7cf1913fd4109`
`Mr. PALLONE — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

I rise this morning to share my concerns regarding the Turkish 
government's threats to retaliate against our country if the U.S. 
Congress adopts a resolution affirming the Armenian genocide. These 
shocking threats have been issued in response to the recent 
introduction of the Armenian genocide resolution, H. Res. 106. This 
measure seeks to affirm the U.S. record on the Armenian genocide by 
recognizing it as a historical fact. It also praises the American 
record of opposition to this tragedy which is marked by courageous 
diplomatic protests and unprecedented American relief efforts for the 
survivors of this crime.

Senior Turkish government officials have warned that if Congress ever 
considers this resolution, they will cut off supply access for our 
forces serving in Iraq. In fact, Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul 
told Vice President Dick Cheney that the U.S. must, and I quote, 
calculate the costs of losing Turkey.

Such a brazen threat to interfere in U.S. military operations is 
absolutely unacceptable. I am outraged that the Turkish government 
would put the lives of soldiers at risk in the pursuit of its desperate 
campaign to deny the systematic slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians. 
This extremist behavior is known as blackmail in my book and it should 
be publicly and forcefully rejected as such. Clearly, Turkey is no 
friend of the United States.

As an American, I am deeply offended that another country is seeking 
to dictate where our Nation stands on core moral issues. Especially a 
country that claims to embrace democracy, yet has a longstanding 
history of abusing minorities, intellectuals and the principle of 
freedom of expression. As a Member of Congress, it is extremely 
troubling that a foreign government is meddling in our Nation's 
legislative process through threats and intimidation. This is the most 
dramatic intervention of a foreign government in U.S. congressional 
affairs and it has been going on for much too long.

Mr. Speaker, senior Bush administration officials, rather than 
outright rejecting these outrageous intimations by the Turkish 
government, are passing them on to Members of Congress as justification 
for not supporting the Armenian genocide resolution. The Bush 
administration is showing no courage on this issue, instead giving 
Turkey a free pass on their efforts to deliberately reject the truth. 
They seem to go to any lengths, including having soldiers call into 
their Representatives in fear of their lives, to deny the Armenian 
genocide simply because Turkey demands that they do so.

Mr. Speaker, the Armenian genocide resolution already has 175 
cosponsors. I am certain that if Members of this House were given the 
opportunity to vote on this resolution, we would pass it 
overwhelmingly. Congress should be allowed to reaffirm what we all 
believe and know to be fact, and that is that genocide was orchestrated 
by the Ottoman Empire in 1915 to exterminate its Armenian citizens.

Reaffirming the Armenian genocide is a matter of conscience. It is my 
hope that this Congress will rebuke any warnings against the United 
States by Turkey and consider legislation on the Armenian genocide.
