# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `71ea9ee112db9b52f570b6812dac14a3`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 April 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I am committed to what the President is 
committed to. All of us who believe that there needs to be a new day in 
America are committed to a new era of responsibility renewing America's 
promise.

And my good friends on the other side of the aisle are in direct 
contrast to that because if we pass this budget, the Republican Study 
Group, study caucus, we will see a continuation of crumbling bridges, 
workers and veterans waiting months or years for benefits, the very 
veterans, 167,000 plus, that are returning back from the Iraq war, many 
who will be returning back from Afghanistan, the very families that we 
see in our community, we will see them missing out on the necessary 
resources to provide a new era of responsibility.

One of the important aspects of this legislation, our budget, focuses 
on protecting families.

Let me share one vision; protect families' financial health. Our 
budget, the President's budget, has a plan that must reduce the growing 
premiums and other costs American citizens and businesses pay for 
health care. People must be protected from bankruptcy due to 
catastrophic illness. We have a placeholder, a place to address the 
question of reforming our health care. We have a provision or a concept 
to make health care coverage affordable. The plan must reduce high 
administrative costs, unnecessary tests and services, waste and other 
inefficiencies.

In the President's budget he believes in renewing America. The budget 
that we have on the floor now believes in undermining the health care 
safety net. It does not have the details that are necessary. It cuts 
key services. It certainly doesn't provide a bridge, an ongoing bridge 
into the 21st century.

My friends, we need to move forward with the President's vision, and 
we need to oppose the RSC budget.