# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `71f7e6fce62f9e5dee1e2ce84c4f1726`
`Mr. McCAIN — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased the Senate will vote today on 
Judge Southwick's nomination. I hope my colleagues will join me in 
voting to confirm this dedicated public servant and courageous soldier.

Judge Southwick has many impressive credentials. Most impressive to 
me and most revealing of his character is his military service. In 
1992, almost 20 years after graduating from law school, Judge Southwick 
interrupted his successful career as an attorney in private practice 
and obtained an age waiver to join the U.S. Army Reserves Judge 
Advocate General's Corps. Ten years later, at age 53, Judge Southwick 
volunteered to transfer to the 155th Brigade Combat Team of the 
Mississippi National Guard, a line combat unit that was deployed to 
Iraq in 2005. Judge Southwick's decision to join the Army is a model of 
self-sacrifice, and his actions helped to provide equal justice not 
only to American soldiers but also to the numerous Iraqi civilians 
whose cases he heard while he was stationed in Iraq. That is the kind 
of service this individual has provided to his country.

Most disappointing is that some Members of the Senate have questioned 
Judge Southwick's character by stating that ''He has an inclination 
toward intolerance and insensitivity.'' That is an interesting criteria 
that we should set for the confirmation of judges.

It is interesting that we are now going to have, for the first time 
in a long time, a requirement for 60 votes to move forward. As my 
colleagues might recall, a couple of years ago there was a proposal 
from some on this side of the aisle and some others that we should 
change the rules of the Senate so that only 51 votes would be necessary 
to confirm a nominee. At that time, I opposed that idea because I 
thought that it would then put us on a slippery slope to other 
requirements, other further erosion of the 60 votes upon which this 
body operates and which separates us from the House of Representatives. 
So a group of us, who were given the nickname of the ''Gang of 14,'' 
got together and agreed that we would not filibuster or require 60 
votes unless there were ''extraordinary circumstances.'' As a result of 
that, Justices Roberts, Alito, and many other judges were confirmed by 
this body.

I think it is pretty obvious that agreement has broken down. I would


like to remind my colleagues that not that many years ago the benefit 
of the doubt went to the President and his nominees and that elections 
have consequences. Among those consequences are the appointments of 
judges--in some respects, perhaps the most important consequence of 
elections because, as we all know, these are lifetime appointments, and 
some of us on the conservative side have viewed over the years 
legislating from the bench in certain kinds of judicial activism as 
very harmful not only to our principles and philosophy and our view of 
the role of Government and the various branches of Government but the 
effects of some of that judicial activism.

So here we are now with a person who is clearly qualified, served in 
the military, and is now being accused of perhaps having an 
''inclination toward intolerance or insensitivity.'' I can assure my 
colleagues there are some people living in Iraq today who don't believe 
Judge Southwick has an inclination toward intolerance and 
insensitivity. In fact, he has earned their gratitude for his efforts 
in installing the fundamental effects of democracy, and that is the 
rule of law.

I hope, Mr. President, once we get this over with, perhaps we can sit 
down again, Republicans and Democrats alike, and try to have a process 
where we could move forward with these judicial nominations. As we 
know, there are more vacancies every day. And I would even agree to 
give them a pay raise, which they seem to feel is rather important.

This is an important decision right now, which I think is larger than 
just the future of this good and decent man. Will others who want to 
serve on the bench be motivated to serve or not serve as they watch 
this process where someone accused of an inclination toward intolerance 
and insensitivity seems to be a new criteria?

Mr. President, I yield the floor.