---
---

# TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY ACT OF 2008
## `71f9c88897b74a2862da16a5d7d7bef7`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the distinguished 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin. I would like to also thank Chairman Dingell 
and Chairman Pallone for their thoughtful consideration and support for 
millions of TBI survivors and their families. But I personally want to 
thank my friend from Pennsylvania, Congressman Todd Platts, for his 
leadership on this important issue. He has shown true sensitivity, and 
as cochair of the Congressional Brain Injury Task Force, families all 
through America could not have a better friend than Todd Platts.

I have witnessed firsthand, Madam Speaker, how these programs make a 
difference in people's lives. Traumatic brain injury is a leading cause 
of death and disability in young Americans, as well as being the 
signature injury of our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Every 21 seconds, one person in the United States sustains a 
traumatic brain injury. That adds up to 1.4 million TBIs each year. 
About half of these cases result in at least short-term disability, and 
about 50,000 people die as a result of these injuries. Eighty thousand 
people sustain severe brain injuries leading to long-term disability.

The Centers for Disease Control estimates there are 5.3 million 
Americans who are living with long-term severe disability as a result 
of brain injury. The national cost is estimated at $60 billion 
annually.

The statistics involving brain injury are increasing even more now 
that reports show that traumatic brain injuries account for 14 to 20 
percent of the casualties for those who survive combat in Iraq. As of 3 
months ago, Madam Speaker, 30,327 servicemembers have been wounded in 
Iraq. Two-thirds of those, approximately 20,000, have had injuries 
during this war affecting the brain.

We are in truly a very important time in history. The brain is the 
last frontier of science. Many returning servicemembers suffering from 
TBI will receive excellent care and rehabilitation services within the 
Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs. But others 
suffering TBI that are initially undiagnosed or misdiagnosed will later 
look to the civilian community and local resources for information and 
services, especially those who serve in the National Guard and 
Reserves.

That is why it is essential that we continue to foster collaboration 
between the civilian and the military, like the Department of Defense 
Center of Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain 
Injury. My good friend Colonel Sutton has done a fantastic job there to 
build a system that ensures returning troops receive what they need to 
put their lives back together again.

Unfortunately, TBI remains a silent epidemic in the United States of 
America. That is why the legislation today, Madam Speaker, is so 
important. The TBI Act is the only legislation that specifically 
allocates Federal funds for programs supporting individuals with brain 
injury.

Originally passed in 1996 and reauthorized in 2000, the TBI Act 
represents a foundation for coordinated and balanced public policy in 
prevention, education and research and community living for people 
living with TBI and their circles of support, many times forgotten as 
well. It has produced results. For 10 years, the Traumatic Brain Injury 
Act was successfully providing direction and legal authority for the 
vast brain injury community in the United States. The act was not 
designed to provide direct care to persons with TBI, but rather to 
inform.

The Health Resources and Services Administration grants within the 
TBI Act have helped States to improve access to health and other 
services for persons with TBI. Prior to the 1996 law, they did not have 
the tools to even access their own needs. Thanks to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, we now have a record of incidence, 
including details and prevalence, plans for prevention, and, finally, 
access to treatment. We have also begun to educate the public and 
provide much-needed scientific data for our scientists, our health care 
providers and policymakers.

Madam Speaker, I cannot tell you how crucial this is to those who 
have TBI folks within their family. This is serious business. They have 
to live with it as well.