---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `71fb390b96976bffa78d5f03dc7aa4b3`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I have listened to this debate on 
both sides of the aisle for the last 2 days, the third day in fact, and 
probably will listen to it tomorrow.

I rise in opposition to H. Con. Res. 63, and I would like to make a 
quote: ''Congressmen who willfully take actions during wartime that 
damage morale and undermine the military are saboteurs and should be 
arrested, exiled or hanged,'' Abraham Lincoln, who had the same problem 
this President had with a very unpopular war. The same problem with 
people trying to redirect the Commander in Chief; the same problem, if 
they had been successful, we would not have had the freedom of the 
people in this country.

What I say today is for my daughters, my Joanie, my Dawn; my 
grandkids, Wyatt, Guy, James Duffy, Katie, Jessie, Don, Niky, Dougy and 
Don, Eric and all the rest of them I missed and I apologize, because 
what we are about to do tomorrow in voting for this resolution is 
beginning a slippery slope down the slide of not being able to provide 
the freedom and the position in this world this country has done for 
the last 90 years, beginning in 1916, 1917, in World War I, which my 
father fought in; in World War II, where five of my cousins were shot 
numerous times for freedom of the people and freedom of this country; 
and, yes, the Korean War, the time in which I was drafted.

Fortunately or unfortunately, I did not serve, but my colleagues did. 
Each time we went there to make freedom, never once did the Congress in 
that role undermine the military or the Commander in Chief.

Then we came to Vietnam, and we began to fight a war by the media, a 
war without allowing the troops to do the job they should have done, 
and in fact, we lost that war. And immediately after withdrawing, we 
saw what happened. Khymer Rouge killed 2 million people. People forget 
that. Two million heads were laying around, lolling around Cambodia. 
And then we had Grenada, which was very short and very sweet, and of 
the course, the Gulf War was 110 days. And now we come to the 
Afghanistan war and the Iraq war.

I suggest to you this resolution will undermine and cause a morale 
disruption to our troops. Nowhere can you be in the field and 
understand the Congress of the United States now is not going to 
support them when they say they do, when they say they are going to cut 
their funding in the future.

It is a slippery slope down this slide of not being the leaders of 
this Nation for freedom, and this is what I thought this country is 
about, freedom for each individual in this world and in our country. 
And to have this occur tomorrow on the 16th is a disservice to the 
future generations, the generations of Americans who will not have the 
opportunity to be in the greatest country in the world because of the 
action of this Congress.

I urge a very, very strong ''no'' on H. Con. Res. 63.