# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `7210aa38ba3bca49e631aa331d401bf6`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 20 December 2009`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, before my friend from Iowa, the 
distinguished Chair of the HELP Committee, leaves the floor, I thank 
him for his wonderful leadership and friendship in so many capacities 
and passion for what we are doing now. We are all here together knowing 
that in the process of legislating, you don't always get every idea you 
want. But you come together and you work for something that is good for 
the American people, and that is what we have done. I thank him very 
much for all of his leadership.

I wish to take a few moments to talk about how we actually got to 
this point on a Sunday evening--we are voting at 1 o'clock in the 
morning--and, frankly, what has been happening all year. I want to take 
a few minutes to talk about what has happened this entire year, the 
first year of President Obama's presidency, our first year in the 
majority, and then to speak a little bit as well about the very 
important legislation that is in front of us.

I do think it is important that we take a moment to recognize and 
address a very unfortunate milestone, look back on the year on what we 
have accomplished in spite of that milestone.

In April, the media celebrated President Obama's first 100 days in 
office. But here in the Senate, we can measure our progress by 
something else--not 100 days, but 100 objections from the minority 
party. Actually, 101 as of yesterday; objections, filibusters, delays, 
stalling tactics designed to stop us from helping the American people 
who are hurting in these tough economic times. That is more true in my 
State than any other place in this country. Our people, the great 
people of Michigan, have been hurting longer, have been hurting much 
more deeply than other places in the country because of the major 
economic transition, as well as the recession in which we are involved.

There is good news because while the Republicans were stalling and 
wasting time, we were working hard doing what the people of America 
sent us to do. I want to talk about what we have done in spite of the 
stalling. But I also want to take a brief moment to explain something 
hard to explain about Senate rules because people look at us and say: 
They objected, but why does that matter? Why does that matter?

Mr. President, as you know, when there is an objection, in order to 
overcome it--and it is called a filibuster--it involves invoking 
motions called cloture and it takes time. It plain takes time. So 101 
times we have not been able to move forward because of an objection or 
we have had to go through this long process we are involved in right 
now.

I think it is important to briefly explain it because when 
Republicans object, as they are now, as they have been on so many 
occasions, our leader has to file what is called a cloture motion, and 
then you wait 2 days. You cannot do other business for those 2 days. We 
have done that over and over, wasting time while people in my State 
want us to be focused on jobs, on lowering their health care costs, on 
making sure we are doing the things that matter to them every day. But 
we stop and we wait 2 days. Then we vote on stopping the filibuster. 
Then we wait 30 hours, which is what we are doing right now. Then we 
vote on whether to proceed to the item. There are filibusters again. 
Then we file a cloture motion on the amendments or the bill. We wait 2 
more days. Then we vote on closing a filibuster, and then we wait 30 
hours, and then we vote on the amendment, which we will do tonight, and 
then we have to wait another 30 hours. In this case, another 30 hours.

It does matter when we say there have been 101 objections that have 
either stopped us or forced this process. It does matter. It matters 
because it has slowed down the ability to move to get things done.

The good news is that we have gotten things done anyway. We have 
gotten things done anyway because we are focused and committed to 
getting things done. We know the American people have waited too long. 
The last 8 years were about taking us in the wrong direction, with 
things that did not help most people, that put us in a huge deficit 
hole, that did not address health care or health care costs or jobs, or 
policies that made it worse.

We know that even though there have been 101 objections so far this 
year--and there will be more; there will be more--we are going to get 
things done for the American people.

It is amazing the stalling actually happened on the very first day of 
the 111th Congress on January 6 when Republicans objected to moving 
forward with an important public lands bill, something we had been 
trying to do for some time to protect and preserve our national parks, 
forests, and wilderness areas. But we passed that important bill anyway 
over their objections and three different filibusters, as the chart 
showed. Three different times we had to wait, wait 2 days, wait 30 
hours, wait 2 days, wait 30 hours. But we passed it.

Since then, nearly every single week we have been in session, every 
single week but 4 out of 41 weeks, we have had to go through this 
process or have had objections. They have found something to object to 
or something to filibuster.

As I said, yesterday they objected for the 101st time, this time with 
a filibuster against providing affordable health insurance for over 30 
million Americans. They have misused longstanding Senate rules and 
traditions to stall everything that might give this President and this 
Congress a victory.

I think it hurts all of us when the Senate breaks down as it has. 
Everybody is hurt by that--to stall everything that would help get 
Americans back to work or that would help 15.4 million Americans who 
are looking for work, and now to stop us, as I said, from extending 
health insurance coverage to over 30 million Americans. Their 
objections are about policy. They are about politics.

Earlier this year, objection 74, they stalled the unemployment bill, 
and their delaying tactics caused nearly 200,000 Americans to lose 
their unemployment benefits a couple of months before Christmas. They 
objected to the bill twice. They filibustered not once but three times 
before they voted unanimously. They voted unanimously for the bill. Why 
would you filibuster something three times and then vote for it 
unanimously? Not because you are concerned about the policy. The only 
explanation is that Republicans were trying to waste time--time that 
cost 200,000 Americans their unemployment benefits; the difference 
between paying the mortgage, keeping the heat on, putting food on the 
table, and possibly trying to keep health care going with a COBRA 
payment or in some other fashion.

Objection 4 was the Republican filibuster of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair 
Pay Act to make sure women get equal pay for equal work. Republicans 
filibustered and held up that bill, but we pushed forward. We passed 
it. We passed a very important equal pay for equal work bill in spite 
of it.

Objection 6 was to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which


has been absolutely critical to creating jobs, keeping our economy out 
of a depression. They filibustered that bill three times as well. But 
we overcame the objections, passed the Recovery Act, and made critical 
investments in transportation, in our schools, in our police officers, 
and in clean energy technology and manufacturing.

And, yes, we are seeing the difference in Michigan right now. Mr. 
President, $2 billion was part of the Recovery Act. I am pleased to say 
we have received a large part of that in Michigan to develop new 
battery technology manufacturing. We have at least six different firms 
that have announced and begun to develop manufacturing facilities for 
advanced battery development. Those manufacturing facilities are going 
to put thousands of people back to work. That was in the Recovery Act 
that was filibustered three times.

Objection 20 was to Senator Kennedy's Serve America Act, which we 
passed despite their filibuster, to help young people give back to 
their country through voluntarism and community service.

Objection 24 was to the Fraud Enforcement Recovery Act which cracked 
down on predatory lending and abuses by banks and mortgage companies. 
That bill was held up for nearly a month. But we passed it, giving real 
relief to millions of American homeowners.

We passed the credit card bill, Republican objection 32.

We passed the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, Republican 
objection 33.

We gave the FDA the authority, finally, to regulate tobacco to help 
keep kids from smoking. That was Republican objection 38.

We passed the Travel Promotion Act which will help stimulate the 
suffering tourism industry across the country. That was objection 45.

We passed a true funding bill to make sure our soldiers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan had the support they needed despite having to file cloture 
to stop a filibuster--objection 47.

We passed the Defense authorization bill that included a pay raise 
for our troops and other help for our military and their families 
despite repeated filibusters and objections. And these were objections 
54, 56, 57, and 58. Can you imagine? This was a Defense bill.

We passed the veterans health care bill, despite Republican stalling, 
to help caregivers of disabled veterans, women veterans, rural health 
improvements for veterans, mental health care for veterans, and support 
for homeless veterans. This was Republican objection 89.

Objection 98 was another filibuster against those pay raises for our 
troops just 9 days before Christmas.

Despite all of those objections, 101, we have been doing what we were 
sent here to do. We have focused on actions to help create jobs and 
strengthen our economy and focus on the things that families struggle 
with and care about every day to make people's lives better, not just a 
few, not just investment bankers on Wall Street, not just the wealthy 
folks who got the tax cuts in the last 8 years, but middle-class 
families every day who are trying to figure out: What about them? What 
about us? That is what we have been focused on.

We passed an extension of the Children's Health Insurance Program to 
provide health and dental care to nearly 10 million children. We passed 
legislation to reform government contracting and protect taxpayer 
dollars. We passed legislation to invest in health care, energy, and 
education. We passed the cash for clunkers bill, as you know, that I 
was proud to lead in the Senate that moved over 650,000 fuel-efficient 
cars off dealer lots and brought thousands of laid-off manufacturing 
workers back to work.

We passed legislation to support the growth of small businesses and 
to extend the first-time home buyers tax credit. And now, just a few 
days before Christmas, we are working to pass this critical, historic 
health insurance reform legislation. We are committed to getting it 
done.

Republican colleagues can object 100 times or 1,000 times, but we are 
not wavering in our commitment to do the right thing. Even though 
inaccuracies abound, even though misinformation has been said over and 
over about what this bill would do, we are committed to overcoming what 
has been the tidal wave of opposition from the special interests who 
control the status quo, who like it the way it is right now. We are 
determined to get beyond that and do the right thing for American 
families. Whether our Republican colleagues work with us or not--and we 
sincerely hope they do, and we have spent a tremendous amount of time 
this year reaching out to get bipartisan support--whether they stall or 
object, our job is to do everything we can to move America forward, and 
that will continue to be our focus.


As the distinguished Presiding Officer knows because we both sit on 
the Finance Committee, we have spent months reaching out with 
committees, with processes to get bipartisan support. But, as my dad 
used to say, it takes two to tango. It takes both sides to want to work 
together. Unfortunately, it appears the strategy that was put in place 
back at the beginning of the year, the very first day of session, with 
the very first filibuster, was just to stop us from being able to move 
America forward, to stop this great new President, to stop the majority 
in the Congress. But we have moved forward despite that.

I think often of what we could do if we hadn't had to deal with 101 
filibusters, what we could have done in creating a clean energy bill, 
which would create more jobs in my great State, or dealing with other 
critical issues we need to deal with and we will deal with. As we slog 
through filibuster after filibuster in the coming year, we will do 
that. But now we have the opportunity in front of us to pass historic 
health insurance reform that, frankly, people have talked about for 100 
years.

This legislation is not perfect, but nothing ever is when you start. 
It is a great framework, however, for putting in place the value, the 
principle that every American should be able to have affordable health 
insurance and that we are going to tackle the explosion of costs that 
have hit businesses large and small, that have hit taxpayers, and to 
bring those costs down over time. That is what we are involved in right 
now, and we are going to get it done.

We could have voted much earlier, rather than keeping our staff here 
until 1 a.m., and we will vote again after we run the next 30 hours, 
which will be, I believe, Tuesday morning. We could vote and be done 
with the final passage at that point. We know where the votes are. We 
have the votes to pass this. But it appears we will be here until 
Christmas Eve. Mr. President, I do not mind for myself. I, of course, 
want to be home with my family, as I know you do. But I think about my 
brother, who drives for UPS, and I know he will be working on Christmas 
Eve, as a lot of Americans will be working on Christmas Eve. And if we 
need to be here until Christmas Eve to do something that will 
positively affect every American, I am willing to do that. I am willing 
to do that if that is what we need to do.

Let me take a moment to talk about the bill in front of us. The bill 
in front of us literally saves lives, saves money, and saves Medicare, 
and I am very proud that in the managers' amendment, the amendment we 
will be voting on at 1 a.m. today, we have made it even better.

I am very pleased to have helped to lead a section related to small 
business tax cuts. Along with our chair of the Small Business 
Committee, Senator Landrieu, and another strong advocate, Senator 
Lincoln, we have been working on provisions that will make sure there 
are small business tax cuts that start immediately--next year--after 
the bill passes, $40 billion in tax cuts in total to help small 
businesses afford health insurance for themselves and their workers.

In our amendment, we also provide even tougher insurance reforms.

In the underlying bill, we lay out a whole health care bill of 
rights. I remember coming here in the year 2000, and the Patients' Bill 
of Rights was the major thing we were trying to get done. We were in 
the minority, the Democratic minority, but we were working hard to do 
that. It was my first opportunity to work with Senator Kennedy. We 
believed strongly that we needed to take insurance company bureaucrats 
out of the middle--from between doctors and patients. That is in this 
bill. Those kinds of reforms are in this bill and only one of many 
things that are in this bill.



We have toughened it up so that if insurance companies, between now 
and when the new group insurance pool takes effect, are raising their 
rates too high, spending too much on profit and administration, then 
taxpayers, ratepayers, will get a refund. And we hope that will put 
pressure on them not to continue to raise rates or try to do what the 
credit card companies have done before the bill takes effect--raise 
their rates. So we have put new protections in and other protections as 
well to make sure that the majority--the vast majority--of every dollar 
a family puts into premiums actually goes for their medical care rather 
than for profits and administration.

In total, we have $430 billion in tax cuts to create affordability 
for families and for individuals, to help them afford health insurance. 
With that, overall, this is a tax reduction--this bill is--for the 
American people, and it is a reduction for taxpayers because it lowers 
the deficit in the first 10 years and on into the future.

I am going to take just a moment to give a sense of what is in the 
bill as it relates to new coverage and the benefits.

We know the majority of us have health insurance already. In 
Michigan, it is about 60 percent of the people, and in other places it 
is 50 or 55 percent. But we have what is called an employer-based 
health insurance system. So we have started from the basis that people 
should be able to keep what they have, and we have built on that. The 
majority of people have either employer-based insurance or they have 
Medicare or Medicaid or veterans services or other public services. So 
we started from the basis that we want to make current health insurance 
more secure, more stable. The insurance reforms we are putting in place 
for those plans that take effect--or new plans after this takes 
effect--will include the elimination of preexisting conditions, the 
elimination of what is called rescissions--the ability to drop someone 
if they have gotten sick--and the elimination of discrimination.

One of the things I was surprised to learn about, in terms of how 
extensive it is, as we went through this process is that women are 
paying, on average, 50 percent more than men for the same coverage in 
the individual insurance market or maybe even less coverage. Because a 
woman is in her childbearing years or perhaps has been pregnant and may 
be viewed as having a preexisting condition, some women might not be 
able to find health insurance.

So those who have insurance today, as they attempt to get new plans, 
will be able to take advantage of all of the insurance protections--our 
health care insurance bill of rights--in the bill. And this is very 
important.

Also, people with insurance today will actually, over time--and it 
will take some time for this to happen--but as others who do not have 
insurance now are able to afford health insurance and become able to 
get health care, there will be fewer people using emergency rooms. 
There will be fewer people needing other kinds of services that 
actually end up coming back, in terms of cost, to all of us who have 
insurance today because when someone walks into the emergency room 
sicker than they otherwise would be if they had seen a doctor, they get 
treated, as they should, but then the hospital has to make up the cost, 
so they put it on people who have insurance today. That is estimated to 
be about $1,100 in hidden costs for individuals. So we are going to see 
those kinds of costs come down and other changes and efficiencies and 
quality that will help people with insurance today. So coupled with the 
insurance reforms, we will see more stability and more quality for 
people who have insurance today.

The major area of new coverage is in what is called the insurance 
exchange. For the 15 to 20 percent of the people who can't find 
affordable insurance today--and most of them, as our Presiding Officer 
knows, are small businesses or people who are self-employed or people 
who have lost their jobs and then lose their insurance--we set up a new 
group pool, which is a way for people to use the same leverage a big 
business does or the Federal Government does, just as the insurance 
policy for Members of Congress uses a pool. Then everyone can choose 
the insurance coverage they want within that pool and get a better 
deal. That is what we are setting up in the insurance exchange, with 
helpful tax cuts for families and for businesses and individuals to 
help them afford health insurance.


We are also giving a choice to States. For lower income working 
people, a State may choose to provide a basic health insurance plan 
rather than people getting a tax cut to go into the exchange. They can 
set up their own basic health insurance plan and bring down costs as 
well through the State.

For young workers--and this is one of the things I wish had been 
around a couple of years ago--we will be allowing parents who have 
their children on their insurance policies--after the effective date of 
the act, they will be able to keep their children on their insurance 
policies until the age of 26. That will give young people a chance to 
get a start in that first job knowing they have insurance until they 
are 26. And there are a number of other provisions in the bill for 
young people as well.

We are making Medicaid a true safety net for low-income people up to 
133 percent of poverty. We are truly going to be able to say: If you 
lose your job, you won't have to lose your insurance. What an important 
thing to be able to say in terms of taking away that fear of losing 
your job and having nowhere to turn.

Improving Medicare. We are going to stop what have been overpayments 
to for-profit insurance companies and put that money back into closing 
the gap in prescription drug coverage under Medicare. It has been 
called the doughnut hole. We are going to close that. We are going to 
provide preventive care for seniors without out-of-pocket costs and 
lengthen the Medicare trust fund so that it is stronger for a longer 
period of time.

I am very proud to have worked with Senator Kerry to develop a way to 
provide support and help for companies that pay for the health 
insurance of early retirees, to lower their costs so that, in fact, we 
will be able to help those who have retired, voluntarily or 
involuntarily, so they will have the insurance they need until they can 
qualify for Medicare.

Let me close by saying this legislation is very much about saving 
lives. Forty-five thousand people lose their lives every year because 
they can't find health insurance they can afford. That is 45,000 
families who will have one less person at the dinner table over the 
holidays because of lack of health insurance. Surely we can do better 
than that in our great country.

We will be saving money for small businesses, for families, for 
taxpayers, and bringing down the deficit--beginning to turn those costs 
downward rather than keeping them going upward in such an 
uncontrollable way.

Saving Medicare. We will be making sure Medicare is stronger out into 
the future and that our seniors have more help paying for their 
prescription drugs and preventative services as well.

When you get through all of it, we know it is hard to change the 
status quo because those who benefit from the current system don't want 
it changed.