---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `7213c9274a7b91d8994bda760ceb8c01`
`Mr. BUNNING — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Madam President, I rise today to voice my strong 
opposition to the emergency supplemental bill. The supplemental bill on 
the floor today is irresponsible. Since coming to the Congress 20-plus 
years ago, I have pushed for accountability and fiscal responsibility. 
When the Democrats took a page from the Republican playbook and said 
they would be responsible with the taxpayers' money, I wanted to 
believe them. I can see now that all the Democratic promises to the 
American people last fall were only empty words.

This bill is an insult to our men and women in uniform and every 
single American taxpayer. To me, this is not a political game. I came 
to the floor last year to oppose additional spending in the emergency 
supplemental bill. It had nondefense spending like $20 million for 
oyster fishermen in New England and $4 million for erosion control 
projects in California and Michigan, and that draft was put together by 
a Republican Congress.

The extra funds I opposed last year pale in comparison to what the 
Democrats have done this year. Unfortunately, it has become routine to 
see emergency spending bills on the Senate floor. I understand the 
pressing need for this legislation to defend America from terrorism and 
support our ongoing efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The purpose of the 
President's request is to protect and pay the men and women serving in 
our Armed Forces.

It also provides the funding needed to restore damaged military 
equipment and to purchase new state-of-the-art technology. This 
emergency supplemental is important to provide for American armed 
services the additional funds they need right now. However, this 
legislation goes far beyond necessary emergency defense spending. The 
majority is using budgetary gimmicks to pay for political handouts and 
entitlements on the backs of our fighting men and women. Mixed in the 
defense spending is a complicated list of earmark legislative language 
and program expansions.

Let me walk you through part of the bill. The hurricanes of 2005 were 
truly devastating, and I have supported the Government's rebuilding 
efforts in the region. But this bill before us today includes $1.45 
billion in unrequested and unnecessary funding for the Corps of 
Engineers. It also eliminates a 10-percent local matching requirement 
for FEMA funds and eliminates the prohibition on forgiving community 
disaster loans.

These are two provisions Congress has supported in the past to ensure 
responsible spending. These provisions are not only inappropriate for a 
wartime supplemental, but they are also bad policy.

Another area of extra spending relates to agriculture. I have been a 
strong supporter of America's farms, but the programs in this bill are 
routinely funded through the regular process. I cannot justify 
supporting $3 million for Hawaiian sugar cane co-ops or $20 million for 
insect damage in Nevada on a wartime supplemental bill. This bill is 
about our troops, not our farmers.

There are even more glaring examples in this bill. There is $3.5 
million for Capital Guide Services to provide service for tourism in 
this very building. It adds $100 million for dairy production losses; 
$13 million for a lamb replacement and retention program; $40 million 
for the tree assistance program; $6 million for flooded croplands in 
North Dakota; $25 million for asbestos abatement at the Capitol 
powerplant; $23 million for geothermal energy research. The list goes 
on and on.

I cannot support requests like these on the backs of our fighting men 
and


women. I will support every effort to strip all the nondefense funding 
out of this bill. It is time to show fiscal restraint and use emergency 
wartime spending legislation for precisely that purpose--to pay for the 
war and not for domestic pork projects.

Finally, I want to address the single most important issue in the 
supplemental, the shortsighted and political call for troop withdrawal. 
This bill includes similar language to that which was rejected by the 
Senate 2 weeks ago. It calls for the withdrawal of troops starting 120 
days after passage of the bill and sets an arbitrary goal of full 
withdrawal from Iraq by March 31, 2008. I voted against this language 2 
weeks ago, I voted against it yesterday, and I will continue to vote 
against it. As I have stated repeatedly, I do not support micromanaging 
the war. It is counterproductive and sends a detrimental message to our 
troops and emboldens our enemies.

I want my colleagues to understand that without the U.S. military, 
Iraq would become a vacuum that would threaten the stability of the 
entire Middle East. I share the desire to have the Iraqis defend 
themselves, and our military is providing them with important training. 
But that cannot happen based on an arbitrary deadline.

I want to warn the other side of the aisle, if you try to force the 
American military out of Iraq, you will be responsible for the chaos 
that will ensue. Without the United States, Iraq would emerge as a 
training ground for all al-Qaida and terrorist organizations. I believe 
the power vacuum would lead to genocide and murdering far worse than 
the terrorist attacks that are now occurring in Iraq.


Without the United States, there would be greater threat to Israel, 
and Iran would become the dominant country in the Middle East.

I want my colleagues to think about the path this troop withdrawal 
language takes us down. I stand for the men and women serving in Iraq 
by supporting their mission, but this bill does the opposite. It 
undermines the military's ability to act.

We need to listen to the commanders on the ground instead of pulling 
the rug out from under them. This supplemental is not a strategy for 
success. It is a recipe for defeat. Now is precisely the wrong time to 
send this message. I believe we may be turning the corner in Iraq. We 
may already see some success, based on recent reports from General 
Petraeus. Sectarian killing has been lowered in Baghdad over the last 
several weeks, and many Iraqi families have been returning to their 
homes. Some of my colleagues would rather ignore these small signs and 
the opportunities to succeed in Iraq by pursuing a partisan political 
agenda.

This bill should be a commitment to General Petraeus and our 
soldiers. It should be a mandate for them to secure democracy in Iraq 
and protect America from terrorism. I rise to ask my colleagues to join 
me in opposing this bill. This may be the most important legislation we 
address all year. It is an opportunity to tell General Petraeus and our 
fighting men and women in uniform that we support them. It is an 
opportunity to tell the people of Iraq that we will not cut and run and 
will not give in to political pressure, allowing us to affect our 
decisions on the floor of the Senate. It is an opportunity to defend 
America from terrorism.

This bill is a mistake that we cannot afford, and I urge my 
colleagues to vote against it.

I yield the floor.