---
---

# STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `7214934b869fe7d0b31235408647c349`
`Mr. DORGAN — 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, it is fascinating to come out here and 
listen to false choices. Let me describe this issue of find more, drill 
more. I am for drilling. I am for everything. But that is yesterday 
forever. It is the same folks who every 10 years show up and say: Let's 
keep doing what we have been doing, that sure is good, except the hole 
keeps getting deeper. If we don't have something that is game changing, 
10 years from now they will be back talking about ''find more.''

The false choice is this: This chart shows the National Petroleum 
Reserve Alaska. We have made all 23 million acres of it available for 
drilling. Only 3.8 million acres have been leased. There is more oil in 
the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska than exists in ANWR. An estimated 
9 million barrels of oil and 60 trillion cubic feet of natural gas are 
available in the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska. Yet some 
policymakers trot out their little horn ornament called ANWR and say: 
You have to agree to drill in ANWR or you are not for drilling.

How about this? How about this 23 million acres? It is a canard and 
false choice to come out and suggest that somehow, as my colleague 
said, Democrats are against drilling. That is absurd. It is just not 
the case.

What we need to be for, it seems to me, is something that is game 
changing, something that says let's not be in this same position 10 
years from now. John F. Kennedy didn't say let's try to go to the Moon 
or I would like to think about going to the Moon or maybe we will make 
an effort to go to the Moon. He said: We are going to put a man on the 
Moon by the end of a decade.

That is what we ought to do with respect to the change in energy 
policy. You will get no change from those who come to the floor of the 
Senate and say let's keep doing what we have been doing even though the 
hole is getting deeper.

Here is what is happening. We need to do first things first. The 
first hurdle in front of us is to shut down the dramatic speculation on 
the oil futures market. Speculators were 37 percent of the people in 
the oil futures market in the year 2000. Now oil speculators are 71 
percent of the market. They have broken the market. There is nothing my 
colleagues can point to in the last 12 months that happened in supply 
and demand that would justify a doubling of the price of oil--nothing. 
Yet, interestingly enough, 47 Members of the other side of the aisle 
have said speculation is at least part of the problem. In fact, there 
is a provision on speculation in the bill of Senator McConnell, the 
minority leader's bill that was offered in the Senate.

If 47 of them believe speculation is part of the problem, let's at 
least address that first. It seems to me if you are running the 
hurdles, you jump the hurdles in front of you. Why not do this first, 
even as we work on a wide range of other issues as described by my 
colleague, Senator Bingaman? We are drilling, and we should continue to 
drill in a responsible way in certain areas of the country.

I was one of four Senators who helped open lease 181 in the Gulf of 
Mexico. It was a big fight. Guess what. It has been open now for a 
couple of years, and there is not one drilling rig on it because the 
oil folks aren't there. Yet they send folks to the floor of the Senate 
to say we need to get Democrats to allow us to drill more. There are 8 
million acres we opened in the Gulf of Mexico. There is substantial new 
oil and gas available on those 8 million acres. Yet they are not there 
drilling. Why?

The entire master narrative in this debate in the Senate is the 
minority wanting to say somehow the majority doesn't support drilling. 
It is a false choice, and they know it.

The question is this: Will they support shutting down the excessive 
relentless speculation in the oil futures markets? Will they support 
that? Are they going to stand on the side of the oil speculators and 
say we kind of like what is going on; we like seeing the price of oil 
double in a year?

Let me point out again that there is nothing that has happened in 
supply and demand that would remotely justify the doubling of the price 
of oil in a year. Yet they come to the floor with their charts and say: 
Produce more.

I am for producing more. It is a false choice to suggest they support 
producing more and we do not. But the question is, what are you going 
to do to deal with the problem today? Then, what are you going to do as 
we go forward to suggest something that is really game changing, that 
allows us to be free and escape from the need to rely on Saudis to ship 
us oil?

My colleague just described a quote from T. Boone Pickens. He must 
have forgotten the quote from R. Boone Pickens that says: You can't 
drill your way out of this mess. You can't drill your way out of this. 
What we need to decide as a country is we are not going to have to go 
begging for oil from the Saudis, from Venezuela, Iraq, and elsewhere 
because we have changed our energy mix.

So if 47 members of the minority have talked about speculation being 
a problem, perhaps we can at least address this first issue. Then we 
should work on the wide range of other things--substantial 
conservation; substantial new initiatives with respect to energy 
efficiency; yes, more production; and most important, dramatic moves 
toward renewable energy: wind energy, solar, geothermal, biomass.

It is long past the time for this country to decide we are going to 
change our energy mix. How are you ever going to get to hydrogen fuel 
cell vehicles--or, in the interim, to electric vehicles--if you do not 
get serious about deciding we are going to change our energy future? If 
you want to be yesterday forever, God bless you, but don't count me 
among you. I don't want to be here 10 years from now--I don't know that 
I would be--but I don't want to be here every single decade to see the 
same folks coming to the Senate floor to say let's keep digging the 
same hole. How? Just because drilling is the only answer.

Mr. President, how much time have I consumed?