---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `721a02f14aaa792f26449b30ac43770e`
`Mr. SANDERS — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, we have heard over the last few moments 
from some of our Republican friends, again, the assertion of how strong 
this economy is doing and how we have to continue going along this same 
path with an OMB Director who is supportive of these policies. Let me 
reiterate, I do not believe the economy is stronger when, over the last 
6 years, 5 million more Americans have become poor, slipped into 
poverty, including a million children. I do not believe this economy is 
strong when median income for working age families has declined by 
about $2,400 since the year 2000. I do not believe this economy is 
strong when the personal savings rate has been below zero for eight 
consecutive quarters. I do not believe this economy is strong when 8.6 
million Americans have lost their health insurance since President Bush 
has been in office. I do not believe this economy is strong when 35 
million Americans struggled to put food on the table last year and 
hunger in America is growing. I do not believe this economy is strong 
when home foreclosures are now the highest on record, turning the 
American dream of home ownership into a nightmare.

We need a new direction in economic policy, policies which protect 
the interests of ordinary Americans and not just the wealthy and the 
powerful. We need an OMB Director to tell this President the reality of 
economic life for tens of millions of our families rather than continue 
a mythology which essentially represents the interests of the people on 
top who, in fact, are doing very well. Maybe government should 
represent all rather than just the wealthy and the powerful.

When I talked before about the budget priorities of President Bush, 
we should continue that discussion and talk about how he treats our 
veterans. The war in Iraq, something which I strongly opposed, has 
given us now over 27,000 soldiers who have been wounded, many of them 
seriously. Studies tell us that many of the soldiers returning home 
from Iraq are coming home with post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD. 
How did the President's budget, a budget which we turned around, how 
did his initial budget treat the veterans? His budget proposed cutting 
the VA by $3.4 billion over 5 years after adjusting for inflation. That 
does not say thank you to our veterans and their families and all they 
have gone through.

We have a President who in his budget has said we don't have enough 
money to address the needs of the middle class, working families, 
senior citizens, children, and veterans. We don't have enough money to 
do that, to pay attention to the people who are hurting. But amazingly 
enough, President Bush has told us we do have enough money to provide 
$739 billion in tax breaks over the next decade to households with 
incomes exceeding $1 million per year. Under President Bush's proposal, 
the average tax break for this group of millionaires would total 
$162,000 by the year 2012. So if you are a millionaire or a 
billionaire, the good news is, we have enough money for you. But if you 
are a veteran coming home from Iraq with PTSD, if you are a mother 
trying to find quality childcare for your kids, if you are a worker 
trying to find health insurance, sorry. This country does not have 
enough money for you.

Let me be very blunt. In my view, it is wrong to be giving huge tax 
breaks to the very wealthiest people, the people who need them the 
least, while cutting back on the needs of the middle class and working 
families. I should say that Mr. Nussle's record as chairman of the 
Budget Committee tells us clearly he supports these tax breaks for the 
very rich while, at the same time, he has been prepared over the years 
to cut programs for those who need them the most. That is wrong. That 
is why I will be voting against Mr. Nussle's confirmation.


Included in President Bush's budget is the complete repeal of the 
estate tax which would take effect at the end of 2010. The complete 
repeal of the estate tax, we should be clear, because sometimes people 
have not been quite so clear about it, would benefit the wealthiest 
three-tenths of 1 percent of our population, the top three-tenths of 1 
percent, and 99.7 percent of the American people would not benefit, 
their families would not benefit by one nickel from the repeal of the 
estate tax. Obviously, if you are in the top three-tenths of 1 percent, 
you are already a millionaire or a billionaire, and you are already in 
a family which is doing very well and has been doing well in recent 
years. In other words, 99.7 percent of Americans would not receive one 
nickel. The wealthiest people, who are


doing very well, would get all the benefits.

According to the President's budget, this repeal of the estate tax 
will reduce receipts for the Treasury by more than $91 billion over the 
next 5 years and more than $442 billion over the next decade. But the 
long-term damage to our fiscal solvency is even worse. According to the 
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, repealing the estate tax would 
cost over $1 trillion from 2012 to 2021, all of which benefit goes to 
the wealthiest three-tenths of 1 percent. In other words, if the 
President's plan to permanently repeal the estate tax succeeds, the 
children and family members of the most privileged families in America 
will reap a massive tax break. Paris Hilton, you are in luck, if the 
President gets his way. You are going to do very well. But for other 
Americans, the deficit will go up, and the argument will be raised that 
we don't have enough money to take care of our kids, our seniors, and 
our veterans.

What has Mr. Nussle's position been as chairman of the Budget 
Committee on repeal of the estate tax? He is there alongside the 
President. So we have every reason to believe he will be recommending 
to the President that we continue this extremely unfair and disastrous 
policy.

When we talk about repealing the estate tax, which the President 
wants to do, which Mr. Nussle wants to do, which many of our Republican 
friends want to do, I think we should see who benefits in a more 
specific sense. Yes, it is the wealthiest three-tenths of 1 percent who 
will get all of the benefits, the people who need it the least. Let's 
look at one particular family who does have the best. Let's put this 
thing into perspective. The reality is the big winner, the people who 
need this money the most--not the kids, not our seniors, not low-income 
people, not our veterans, no, they get at the end of the line--the 
people who receive a significant amount of the benefits from repeal of 
the estate tax is the Walton family that owns Wal-Mart. In fact, 
today--and these things change; they go up and down--the estimated net 
worth of the Sam Walton family is about $83.2 billion. From where I 
come, that is pretty good, $83.2 billion. You are a family that is 
doing fine. You will probably be able to pay the rent next month. If 
the estate tax is repealed for this one family, they will receive a 
benefit of $32.7 billion, one family, $32.7 billion.

We do not have enough money, says the President, to increase health 
insurance for our children. Oh, he is going to repeal that $32 billion 
to take care of 3 million more kids? We cannot afford that, but we can 
afford to give $32 billion in tax breaks to a family worth $83 billion.

Those priorities are wrong. In my view, they are immoral. We need an 
OMB Director who begins to explain to the American people this is not 
what America is about, who begins to explain to the American people we 
need a budget that reflects the needs and deals with the needs of 
millions of families, where people are working longer hours for lower 
wages, that deals with the problems of our senior citizens, deals with 
the problems of our crumbling infrastructure, deals with the problems 
of kids who cannot afford to go to college, deals with all of the 
problems our people face every single day. That is the kind of budget 
we need. That is the kind of OMB Director we need. What we do not need 
are policies which give obscene benefits to the very wealthiest people 
in this country.

Let me simply say at this point that in fact what this debate is 
about is whether we are going to have an OMB Director who can advise 
the President about the reality facing our working families or will we 
continue the same failed policies?

Having said that, Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time.