# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INTEGRATION OF THE UNITED  STATES ARMED FORCES
## `722ffc71fc79f8ca1d728b2204a00a0f`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 17 July 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 60th 
anniversary of the integration of the United States Armed Forces.

On July 26, 1948, President Harry Truman signed Executive Order 9981 
which stated that the Armed Services must extend equal opportunity to 
everyone who served in the military. Although the true fulfillment of 
this vision finally occurred 15 years after President Truman signed 
this Executive Order, July 26, 1948 remains a defining moment in our 
Nation's history because the leader of the Free World made it known 
that a united Nation needed a united military.

This extraordinary document was signed shortly after World War II 
when American troops and their allies restored hope, justice, and life 
to millions of people who were suffering under horrific dictatorship 
and terror. In the deadliest and most wide spread war in human history, 
the world had seen the valor, fortitude, and humility of the American 
military. Upon returning home, however, more than 400,000 African 
American World War II veterans were faced with the bitter reminder that 
they did not receive equal rights in the military in which they served 
and in the country that they loved.

Mr. Speaker, from the Revolutionary War to the present wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, blacks and other people of color have fought and died. 
In the years prior to desegregation, many black soldiers fought with 
the hope that if they demonstrated their bravery and dedication in 
battle, they could obtain the respect and opportunity in the military 
and civilian sector. Unfortunately, formal and informal practices of 
segregation and discrimination in the military and in our country 
prevented this hope from becoming and reality.

In the years leading to an unprecedented time of prosperity, growth, 
and development in the United States, President Truman dared to sign a 
document that would position our military and country in a new 
direction. At last, America would have laws that would ensure


that people would have the right to serve their country and be treated 
equally regardless of their race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sixty years after Executive Order 9981 was signed and 45 years after 
the proclamations in this document were implemented, the U.S. military 
now includes the full spectrum of our great country. More than 1.4 
million men and women make up America's active and reserve forces. They 
can serve with the knowledge that there are laws to ensure that they 
receive the same rights and liberties that they fought to secure for 
others.

Mr. Speaker, as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the initial call 
to integrate our nation's Armed Forces, we must remember to continue 
the legacy of eliminating discrimination and bigotry from the 
institutions that represent our country and make it great. I urge my 
colleagues to cosponsor this resolution and demonstrate our continued 
commitment to laws that promote liberty, equality and justice in every 
sector of our society.
