# DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `7232df485529c1837c875e1ed0f45b0f`
`Mr. DURBIN — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the Senate is just returning from a week 
home. I spent the week in my home State of Illinois traveling from far 
southern Illinois to Chicago and most points in between. It was a busy 
week. I met with a lot of people and continue to be amazed that there 
is such a disconnect between the real world of America and the world of 
Capitol Hill.

In about 48 hours, the U.S. House of Representatives is going to have 
a historic vote. It is about children's health insurance. Here we are, 
the wealthiest Nation on Earth, with the best doctors, the best 
hospitals, the best technology, amazing medical research. Yet when it 
comes down to basic health care protection, America falls short. We 
spent more money per capita than any nation on Earth on health care, 
but our outcomes do not show it. Countries that spend a lot less get a 
lot more. Other countries around the world have made a dedicated effort 
to make sure every citizen in their nation has the protection of basic 
health care.

But not America. Forty-seven million Americans have no health 
insurance. We tried to address that with the Children's Health 
Insurance Program 10 years ago. We looked at the 40 million uninsured 
Americans and said: 15 million are kids; let's start there. Let's cover 
these children. Let's make sure they have health insurance, not through 
a government plan but through private health insurance. We will take 
money, grants and money, send it to the States, work with the 
Governors, share the expense, and bring these kids under 
hospitalization coverage. In 10 years it worked. From 15 million 
uninsured, we were able to insure 6.6 million children in America; 
300,000 in my home State of Illinois.

Well, with the new Congress and the expiration of this program, we 
took another look at it and said: Can we do better? Can we extend this 
beyond 6.6 million kids to more of the 15 million targeted group of 
children? We found a way to do it. We did it in a bipartisan way, a 
cooperative effort with the Republican side of the aisle, an effort 
that involves Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, Senator Orrin Hatch of 
Utah, well-known, conservative Republicans who sat down with Senators 
Max Baucus and Ted Kennedy and hammered out the details--Thirty-five 
billion dollars more in spending over the next 5 years.

Now, the first reaction, of course, is that most people say: Great, 
you dreamed up an expansion of a program that costs us $35 billion. 
Thanks a lot. Our kids will pay for it.

Wrong. We insisted that it be paid for. How is it paid for? By 
increasing the Federal tax on tobacco products. That is it. I am not 
going to beat around the bush and tell you there is some secret way to 
do it. That is how we did it. We raised the Federal tax on tobacco 
products, cigarettes and cigars. You can sign me up, incidentally, any 
day of the week. I am one Senator. I am sure there are many like me who 
have lost a loved one to cancer brought on by tobacco. Most people in 
America have been touched by tobacco disease and illness.

I believe one of the best things we can do is to keep tobacco 
products out of the hands of our kids. When you raise the price by 
raising the tax, children are discouraged from buying the product. 
Good. If kids do not get addicted early and stick around until they are 
about 18 to make the choice, they will decide it is a pretty dumb idea. 
But if they start smoking at 14, 15, 16, an addiction gets started. So 
we raised the tobacco tax to come up with the $35 billion. Over the 
next 5 years we will expand the health insurance coverage from 6.6 
million children to 10 million children in America--still not 15 but 
clearly moving in the right direction.

We passed the bill over here with an amazing vote. In a time when we 
have these death-defying votes of 1 vote here, 1 vote here, 69 Senators 
voted for the bipartisan approach to expand children's health 
insurance.

We sent the bill over to the House. They were disappointed because 
they wanted more. I want more. I would like to see all 15 million kids 
covered, to be honest with you. I would like to see all Americans 
covered. I will get to that point in a moment. But they passed it, and 
we sent it to President Bush.

Now, President Bush is in his seventh year as President of the United 
States.


He has used his veto pen four times--four times--once to veto a plan 
passed by Congress on a bipartisan basis to change the policy in Iraq 
and start bringing our troops home; President Bush vetoed it; next, he 
had two opportunities and used his pen twice to veto the expansion of 
medical research using stem cells. You will recall the President 
stopped this research at the Federal level. States are now doing it, 
private companies are doing it, and foreign governments are doing it. 
But the Bush administration will not allow our National Institutes of 
Health, through Federal funding, to do this. Well, the President used 
his veto pen twice to stop this promising research to find cures for 
diseases and causes of death.


His fourth use of the veto pen was to kill the Children's Health 
Insurance Program. What did they say about it? Why did the President 
veto this bipartisan bill that came out of the Senate and the House? 
Well, they said, first, it was socialized medicine--socialized 
medicine. You know that is a cliche that was probably born in the 
1960s, maybe before, on the notion that the Government would provide 
all the health insurance for America.

Well, it did not work then. We created Medicare, and thank goodness 
we did, for millions of Americans who have had peace of mind at age 65 
because of it. Socialized medicine. What the President failed to say 
was if he gets sick tomorrow, God forbid, he will go to a military 
hospital. The doctors will be members of the military. The nurses who 
answer his call will be members of the military. He will be protected 
by Government health services as President of the United States.

Is that socialism? I think I will leave it to the President to 
decide. But I think it is troublesome that we have reached a point that 
we dismiss a program of such value to so many children and call it 
socialized medicine. What was even more galling was someone in the 
White House along the way argued the point that this plan would cover 
individuals who make up to three times the poverty level in the United 
States.

Let me translate that into terms Americans can understand. If you 
make up to $60,000, you get help under this plan. And the argument the 
White House made was, people making $60,000 a year--or ''well off'' in 
their terms--do not need this help.

Really? Well, let's think about that for a second. Sixty thousand 
dollars a year is gross pay. Now, let's take about 40 percent of that 
for all of the taxes that are taken out and all of the deductions that 
are taken out. That leaves us somewhere in the range of $36,000 a year, 
about $3,000 a month in take-home pay.

Now, go out and look for health insurance for a sick child. I will 
tell you what you will find. You will be lucky to get by with $1,000 a 
month for health insurance for your family if you have a sick child. If 
you have a healthy family, it may still cost $600 or $800.

So out of a take-home pay of $3,000, they say you are well enough off 
that you do not need help to pay $1,000 a month for health insurance. 
Who is kidding whom? The reality is that families are crippled by these 
costs. Many of them cannot afford insurance, and they need the help of 
this program. It is a reasonable thing to do.

Those people in the White House who just want to call this socialism, 
or whatever the word of the day may be, or dismiss families making 
$60,000 as not needing a helping hand with health insurance for 
children, they are so out of touch they do not understand the drama 
that these families go through every single month for lack of health 
insurance.

There is a story closer to home for the Members of the Senate. It 
does not relate to the Children's Health Insurance Program, but I think 
it is a story worth telling. It is a story about a member of the Senate 
family, someone whom most of us have seen many times. Many may not know 
his name, but he is someone who has gone through a life-changing 
experience because of no health insurance in his family.

Forty-seven million Americans have no health insurance. We who are 
privileged in the Senate probably do not lie awake at night worrying 
about it because a bad diagnosis is not going to lead to bankruptcy for 
us. We are lucky. We are part of the Federal Employees Health Benefits 
Program. We have got the best coverage in America. Eight million 
Federal employees, Members of Congress, we get an open enrollment 
period every year. You do not like your company, change it. It is like 
shopping for a car. There are so many choices out there. You want a big 
plan, you pay more. You have more money taken out of your check. You 
want less coverage, pay less. You have less money taken out of your 
check. It has been around for decades.

Members of Congress benefit from it, and we have a peace of mind that 
comes with it. But we do not have to look far to see families who are 
struggling and facing terrible decisions because of the high cost of 
health insurance. They are everywhere. They are in every town, every 
county, every State, all across our Nation, and they are right here in 
the family. There is a young man who works just a few feet away from 
where I am standing. He is an elevator operator. His name is Sergio 
Olaya. He has worked here off and on as an intern and has been an 
elevator operator since last May. He always has a big smile on his 
face, great young fellow, says hello, and most of us, of course, see 
him and greet him and head off on our business.

He is 21 years old, a bright young man, happy disposition, a great 
future ahead of him. But a few months ago, Sergio, who works right 
outside this door, had a tragedy strike his family. His mother died of 
an aggressive form of brain cancer. She was 61 years old, a single mom. 
Sergio was her only child. Doctors think she may have had the tumor for 
a long time, but the symptoms didn't show up until 2 months ago, and 
then she died. Before that, she had suffered a stroke which left her 
paralyzed on her right side. She was an authority on health and 
nutrition and worked for organizations, including the Centers for 
Disease Control, USAID, UNICEF, and the Organization of American 
States, but she had been unemployed and uninsured for 5 months when she 
got sick. Even COBRA, which is the way to purchase health insurance 
when one is not working, was too expensive for someone with a limited 
income such as Sergio's mother. As a result, when she died from an 
aggressive form of brain cancer, she left $255,000 in unpaid hospital 
and doctor bills--a quarter of a million dollars.

The hospital first threatened to sue her son for payment. A lawyer 
who is helping him pro bono negotiated the hospital charges down, first 
to $216,000, then to $95,000. With another $40,000 in doctors bills, 
Sergio, a member of the Senate staff, still owes $135,000 in medical 
bills for his mom. How is he dealing with this? He is selling his home 
in Bethesda where he and his mom have lived for the last 8 years. It is 
the only home they have ever owned. The proceeds will go for the 
payment of these medical bills.

Sergio said when his mom got sick she had been waiting to hear about 
a possible new job with the Federal Government, and it would have had 
health insurance. When the job offer finally came, his mother had just 
suffered a stroke and couldn't get out of bed to answer the phone. Two 
months and $255,000 in medical bills later, she passed away at the age 
of 61. In another week or month, she might have had health coverage 
with a new job. In another 4 years, she would have been eligible for 
Medicare. Instead, she had the bad luck and bad timing to fall through 
one of the gaping holes in America's unravelling health care safety 
net. Now her only child, her son, is paying the price.

I wonder how many Senators have been in the elevator with Sergio, 
talked to him, shared a smile with him, but had no idea of the terrible 
burden he and his mother were carrying as a result of the cost of 
health care and the cost of being uninsured in America today. How many 
more families will have to sell their homes? How many more bright, 
talented young people will have to drop out of college so their family 
can pay medical bills before we finally come up with a real plan to 
make health care more affordable for all Americans? The truth is, 
almost every family is at risk because of a fraying and failing health 
care safety net. Almost all of us could be one pink slip, one election, 
one bad diagnosis, or one serious accident away from a health and 
economic disaster for our family.

This affects Sergio, our Senate family. It affects all families. We 
need to


deal with it. We need to find a way or a combination of ways to give 
every American access to affordable health coverage. We can't help 
Sergio pay these bills, but we can sure look to the possibility of 3.4 
million children across America and their moms and dads finally having 
the peace of mind of knowing that their kids are covered. It is a small 
step for a big nation, but isn't it the kind of step we want to take 
together in a bipartisan way? President Bush says no. He vetoed the 
bill. He sent it back to the House of Representatives, and on Wednesday 
they will take a vote. Fifteen Republican Congressmen who voted against 
the plan have to change their votes to override his veto. Overall, 62 
Republican Senators and Congressmen voted for this plan, so it is 
bipartisan. I hope the 15 who are thinking about it now will think 
about the vulnerability of a lot of people such as Sergio, people we 
don't know who every single day have to wrestle with this terrible 
challenge in our great Nation.