---
---

# ARMY STRYKER FORCE IN AFGHANISTAN
## `7239659e7ac9118ce7eda150e419ede3`
`Mr. TIBERI — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. TIBERI. Madam Speaker, I rise today to submit to the Record the 
attached information concerning a constituent and a mother of a soldier 
that served in Afghanistan.



















Congress of the United States,




















 House of Representatives,


















Washington, DC, October 8, 2009.


 Hon. Robert M. Gates,


 Secretary of Defense,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Secretary: Last month I received a letter from a 


 constituent and mother of a soldier that served in 


 Afghanistan. She was concerned after learning that the 5th 


 Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division (Stryker Brigade Combat Team) 


 had not been authorized the necessary Improvised Explosive 


 Device Detection Dogs (IEDDDs) for its mission.



 After forwarding her concerns to the U.S. Department of the 


 Army, I received a response from U.S. Army Central Command 


 dated September 30, 2009 from Chief of Staff Colonel Stephen 


 M. Twitty. The response stated ''On August 14, 2009, the 


 command submitted an urgent universal needs statement to 


 their higher headquarters, United States Forces--Afghanistan 


 for 75 IEDDDs with handlers for immediate fielding'' and that 


 the request was still pending at that time.



 It is my understanding that after fifty-six days of 


 operations since the urgent request was made by commanders in 


 the field, the 5th Brigade has yet to receive the necessary 


 IEDDDs. I am concerned that commanders on the ground are not 


 receiving resources they are requesting. Please provide an 


 explanation of the plan that is in place to ensure that our 


 troops on the ground have the assets needed to keep Americans 


 safe and detect IEDs.



 If you have any questions, please contact my district 


 director, Mark Bell. Thank you for your time and attention to 


 this matter, and I look forward to your reply.





 Sincerely,
























Patrick J. Tiberi,



















 Representative to Congress.



 Enclosures.