---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `723c83328be3182884f266030dab662d`
`Ms. SCHWARTZ — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. SCHWARTZ. Mr. Speaker, today President Bush, as required by 
Congress, has reported on progress made by the Iraqi Government on 
political and military benchmarks. He reported that the Iraqis have not 
accomplished any of these goals.

It is time, in fact past time, for the Iraqis to take control of 
their own future. It is time for the Iraqis to move forward, resolve 
their internal conflicts and begin the process of national 
reconciliation.

More than 3,600 Americans have paid the ultimate sacrifice to bring 
freedom


and democracy to Iraq. Our military has performed exceptionally; for 
that and for their sacrifices, our Nation will be internally grateful.

But without progress by the Iraqis themselves, there is little more 
that our military can do. And despite the stubbornness of our President 
to stay the course, it is time for us to bring our troops home.

I am proud to be with the majority in Congress and across America in 
supporting this responsible plan to redeploy our troops, set a new 
course in Iraq, and lead our Nation towards greater security here at 
home and across the world.

I rise in support of the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act and I 
stand in support of a change in strategy for U.S. involvement in Iraq: 
one that sets a timetable for prompt and safe withdrawal of our armed 
forces.

For many of us on the House Floor today this is not the first time we 
have voted for such a change, or demanded a new plan from the 
President.

In March, we voted to withdraw U.S. forces from Iraq, improve troop 
readiness, and demand accountability from the administration. The 
President vetoed our plan.

In May, Congress enacted specific political and military benchmarks 
for the Iraqi government. By tying the goals to funds for military 
action in Iraq, we made it clear that progress is a prerequisite for 
continued assistance by the United States.

Today, President Bush, as required by Congress, reported on progress 
made by the Iraqi government towards those benchmarks. He reported that 
the Iraqis have not accomplished any of these goals.

More than 3,600 Americans have paid the ultimate sacrifice to bring 
freedom and democracy to Iraq. Our military has performed 
exceptionally. They removed a government hostile to the United States 
and took responsibility for providing enough stability to enable the 
Iraqi people to establish their own free and independent government. 
For that and for their sacrifices, our Nation will be eternally 
grateful.

Yet, as the war enters its fifth year, sectarian violence and failure 
of political progress has put our troops in a more and more threatening 
and dangerous situation. This volatility and the President's surge 
strategy have increased U.S. and Iraqi casualties and injuries.

It is time --well past time--for the Iraqis to take control of their 
own future. It is time for the Iraqis to move forward to establish an 
effective system of government, to resolve their internal conflicts, 
and to begin the process of national reconciliation. Without these 
actions by the Iraqis themselves, there is little more our military can 
do. It is time--well past time--for us to bring them home.

On behalf of the American people, we are seeking to do just that. 
Today we will vote once again to end our military involvement on the 
frontlines in Iraq and bring our troops home despite the stubbornness 
of our President to stay the course.

It is my hope that that Republicans will join us in supporting this 
responsible plan to redeploy our troops and to press the President for 
a new course in Iraq. As Democrats, we will lead this country towards a 
more responsible--more strategic path--to end our military involvement 
in Iraq. In so doing, we remain committed to protect our nation, our 
people and our strategic interests at home and around the world.