---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `7245d80186fa9fffc7f41aa33e4e36e4`
`Mrs. HAGAN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mrs. HAGAN. Mr. President, I thank Chairman Levin and Ranking Member 
McCain for reporting out a bill that enacts reforming the Defense 
Department's budget and reorients weapons systems geared toward the 
wars we are fighting today. Our soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen 
need capabilities that are conducive to implementing the Department's 
shift to counterinsurgency tactics, techniques, and procedures. There 
is nothing more important than enhancing the force protection of our 
troops. That is why I am pleased that this bill provides proven, 
effective ground capabilities, such as the MRAP vehicles to protect 
against IEDs.

I want to highlight a couple of provisions in the bill. First, I 
support funding the administration's request for $7.5 billion for the 
Afghanistan security forces fund to train and equip the Afghan national 
army and police. The commander of the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Brigade, 
Brigadier General Nicholson, recently indicated that the success of the 
Marine offensive in the Helmand Province is dependent upon placing an 
Afghan face on the operation, in order to instill confidence among 
local Afghans in the Afghan Government's abilities to provide safe 
communities and to govern efficiently.

Equally important is providing coalition support funds for Pakistan. 
The stability of Afghanistan is dependent on the stability of Pakistan, 
and vice versa. We need to enable the Pakistan Army and Frontier Corps 
with the capability to conduct sustained direct action missions against 
the dangerous elements of the Pakistani Taliban along the federally 
ministered tribal areas, as well as against the Afghan Taliban High 
Command in Pakistan's Balochistan province.

Key to successful operations in theater are effective aviation 
assets. I am a big proponent of the Joint Strike Fighter as it can 
serve multiple roles, including close air support, tactical bombing, 
and air defense missions. I am disappointed that we were unable to 
secure enough votes for Senator Bayh's amendment. I want to reiterate 
that I think it is important we safeguard language to authorize funding 
to develop and procure an alternate Joint Strike Fighter engine.

I know the issue of the location of the Navy's OLF has already been 
debated and voted on, so I will not spend a lot of time on it. I 
cosponsored an amendment with Senator Burr to prevent the Navy from 
building an OLF in the Sandbanks and the Hale's Lake locations within 
Camden, Currituck, and Gates Counties in North Carolina. I am against 
an OLF at these proposed sites because it would destroy small family 
farms that have been around for generations, as well as thousands of 
acres of farmland, essential to the livelihood and economic base of 
those communities. An OLF in these locations would only bring 52 jobs, 
and it would destroy valuable farmland that currently employs over 
2,000 workers. Moreover, the OLF would only be a few miles away from 
ongoing projects that will attract new businesses and tourists.


Last week, I met with local government leaders of the respective 
counties to discuss their concerns regarding construction of the OLF. 
The State of North Carolina recently passed a law banning the 
construction of an OLF at these sites. I do not think it would be in 
the Navy's interests to continue to pursue construction of an OLF at 
these sites, knowing that it will more likely than not be tied up in 
litigation for years.

I want to make sure North Carolina is treated fairly. The residents 
of these counties simply do not want the OLF there. The State of North 
Carolina is the friendliest military State in the Nation, and we would 
welcome the opportunity to work with the Navy in identifying sites that 
could potentially meet the Navy's OLF requirement, and also have the 
support of the North Carolinians in those counties. One of those sites 
can be at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point or a site close to it 
within Craven County. All of the elected local officials in that 
community are in support of having an OLF located there.

The Navy excluded Cherry Point as a potential OLF site because Navy 
standards specify that an OLF should be no more than 120 nautical miles 
from home base. Cherry Point sits approximately 135 nautical miles from 
Oceana, VA. That is just 15 nautical miles beyond the Navy's current 
requirement. I want to work with the Navy to examine the impact of 
having an OLF that is located just outside its current requirements, 
and especially on the readiness of the Navy's personnel and aircraft 
fleet.

Senator Webb and I worked together to insert additional language 
within the committee report to do two things: one, to mandate the 
Secretary of the Navy issue a report detailing the Navy's consultations 
with local governments, communities, and stakeholders in North Carolina 
and Virginia regarding OLF site options; two, to mandate the Navy 
identify all suitable options for the location of an OLF beyond the 
five sites identified in both States.

However, I don't think that is good enough. The State of North 
Carolina has had previous negative experiences with the manner in which 
the Navy has implemented its OLF site selection process. I strongly 
feel that the Navy should delete the two current sites in North 
Carolina.

I also thank the chairman and ranking member for accepting my 
amendment in committee that provides the Department of Defense with the 
option to increase the acquisition of additional C-27s in the outyears 
as mission requirements dictate. That amendment requires the Department 
to provide its strategic plan to deploy and station C-27 joint cargo 
aircraft in theater and in the continental United States, as well as 
plans to procure additional aircraft beyond the 38.

Forty-eight adjutants of the National Guard signed a letter to the 
committee last month supporting the funding of 78 joint cargo aircraft. 
Their letter emphasized the C-27 provides an essential airlift 
capability in war, as well as to State emergency management teams in 48 
States.

I also thank the chairman and Ranking Member McCain for accepting my 
amendment to direct the Secretary of the Army to submit a report to 
assess the feasibility and advisability of creating a trainees, 
transients, holdees, and students account within the Army National 
Guard to ensure all soldiers in


units have completed their initial entry training prior to being 
deployed.

Approximately 27,000 of the National Guard's end strength are not 
deployable because they are awaiting training. This account would allow 
new Guardsmen to be fully trained prior to reporting to their 
assignment. A TTHS account with the National Guard would improve the 
unit readiness, increase individual dwell time between deployments, and 
provide more predictability to soldiers, families, and employers.

Finally, I thank the chairman and ranking member for accepting my 
amendment involving depot maintenance work. This amendment directs the 
Secretary of the Navy to submit a cost-benefit analysis report 
identifying each alternative the Secretary is considering for the 
performance of the AV-8B Harrier aircraft planned maintenance and 
aircraft modifications.

We are working with the Navy and the Marine Corps to ensure that 
depots allow partnerships with the commercial sector, while recognizing 
the legitimate national security need for the Department of Defense 
civilian and military personnel to retain the key skills to be 
responsive to our soldiers fighting in these two wars.

This is an important bill, and despite my and Senator Burr's ongoing 
concerns about this outlying landing field, I think that Senators Levin 
and McCain deserve our gratitude for their work on this bill, and this 
bill deserves the support of all of my colleagues.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.