---
---

# OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `724f41110324eb18c849e5c804d08a45`
`Mr. CONYERS — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. I also want everyone to know that the gentleman from 
Georgia's resolution, John Lewis, Members will be able to join on it up 
until the time that we have a recorded vote in case there are Members 
coming back that may not be aware of this.

Today we have joined so many others in the Nation in honoring, in my 
judgment, our greatest American, Martin Luther King, Jr.



As the original author of the bill 4 days after his assassination, 
and one who worked on it for 15 years until it was passed in 1983, I am 
delighted to support and endorse the resolution of another supporter 
and one who worked closely with Dr. King, the gentleman from Georgia, 
John Lewis.

It was an interesting time for me yesterday. Not only did City Year, 
a national service movement that has young people pledging to work in 
schools, parks, and neighborhoods full-time for 10 months, headed by 
their president, Penny Bailey, in which I delivered my remarks about 
Dr. King, but I was also at Central Methodist Church in downtown 
Detroit, where Dr. King frequently came for his Easter or the Friday 
before Easter addresses, and where I was honored on his last visit to 
be supported by his actual endorsement.

And so I come here doubly proud of the fact that I was able to work 
with Dr. King as a young lawyer, but also to enjoy his support. Much of 
it came, of course, from Rosa Parks, who left Alabama and came to 
Detroit when she couldn't get work anymore. And she was a seamstress. 
And I was very happy to welcome her to my congressional office, where 
she worked for more than two decades. And her and Dr. King's fame and 
recognition kept growing and growing as she was called around the world 
to receive tributes.

And I remember Dr. King's very important receiving of the Nobel 
Prize. And it was about the question of peace. And it was not just 
racial discrimination. Dr. King was not a one-note person. He was a 
visionary. Jobs, justice, economic justice, political justice, and 
peace.

And we find ourselves wrapped up in these same considerations even 
today as we begin the third week of the 110th Congress. We need voter 
integrity. We need protection for those who seek the ballot. But more 
than anything else, I am reminded of the fact that we need to find a 
way out of the war in Iraq, an unnecessary, sad occasion in our 
history.

And you keep thinking, what would King have said? And I remember that 
one thing he said is that those who fail to talk about what is 
important really miss their chance in history to do something that is 
significant.

Madam Speaker, because we have so many speakers, I reserve the 
balance of my time.