---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL DANIEL J. DARNELL
## `72653ad3ffcbd513f8c7c0231aef87c7`
`Mr. INHOFE — 16 November 2007`

---

 Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to a great 
leader and an exceptional officer of the U.S. Air Force, MG Daniel J. 
Darnell, now serving as the Director of Legislative Liaison for Office 
of the Secretary of the Air Force, as he prepares to leave this 
position for one of even greater importance.

A command pilot with more than 4,500 flying hours, primarily in the 
F-15A/B/C/D and F-16C/D, Major General Darnell has commanded at the 
squadron, group, wing, and warfare center levels and has flown combat 
missions in Iraq, enforcing no-fly zones during operations Northern and 
Southern Watch. Major General Darnell continues to provide outstanding 
leadership, advice, and sound professional judgment on numerous 
critical issues of enduring importance to the Air Force, Congress, and 
this Nation.

Major General Darnell was born at March Air Force Base in California, 
where his father flew with Curtis LeMay as a B-29 radio operator, later 
retired as a B-52 tail gunner. He graduated as valedictorian from the 
Virginia Military Institute in 1975 and, immediately following 
graduation, he entered the Air Force and was recognized as a 
distinguished graduate from the Air Force ROTC Program. Major General 
Darnell was selected to attend pilot training at Reese Air Force Base 
in Texas and was again at the top of his class, graduating pilot 
training as a Distinguished Graduate. Upon completion of pilot 
training, Major General Darnell was selected to fly the F-15, the Air 
Force's premier air-to-air fighter. He was initially assigned to the 
7th Tactical Fighter Squadron at Holloman Air Force Base but then moved 
overseas to Kadena Air Base in Japan. At Kadena, Major General Darnell 
again excelled in the air and on the ground leading to his selection as 
instructor pilot, flight examiner, and the sole F-15 aerial 
demonstration pilot in the Pacific.

In 1982, Major General Darnell was selected to attend the F-15 
Fighter Weapons Instructor Course at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada, 
an honor only bestowed on the top fighter pilots in the U.S. Air Force. 
After graduating, he returned to Kadena as the squadron weapons officer 
and then was assigned to McChord Air Force Base in Washington, first as 
the Chief of Standardization and Evaluation, and then as Chief of 
Weapons and Tactics. His weapons expertise, coupled with his superior 
leadership, led him back to Nellis Air Force Base and the U.S. Air 
Force Fighter Weapons School in 1986 where he was a Fighter Weapons 
Instructor Course instructor, flight commander and operations officer, 
providing the most advanced air-to-air training in weapons and tactics 
employment in the world.

Following a staff assignment to Headquarters Tactical Air Command at 
Langley Air Force Base, Virginia, as the Chief of Weapons and Tactics, 
Major General Darnell was selected as the 20th commander and leader of 
the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds, ''America's Ambassadors in Blue.'' 
Major General Darnell flew the F-16 as Thunderbird lead for 2 years, 
performing hundreds of aerial demonstrations for millions of people all 
over the globe. In 1994, he was hand-picked to attend National War 
College in Washington, DC, where he received a master's degree in 
national security policy.

In 1997, Major General Darnell became the commander of the 12th 
Operations Group at Randolph Air Force Base where he was responsible 
for conducting joint and allied pilot instructor training as well as 
Air Force and Navy undergraduate combat systems officer training. He 
returned to the F-16 in 1998 and commanded the 20th Fighter Wing at 
Shaw Air Force Base in South Carolina and then 31st Wing at Aviano Air 
Base in Italy.

Major General Darnell returned to Nellis Air Force Base in 2001 as 
commander, 57th Wing, the largest composite wing in the Air Force. 
During that time, he deployed to Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia 
where he was the Senior Director of the Combined Air Operations Center 
during the opening weeks and months of Operation Iraqi Freedom. In 
2003, Major General Darnell was assigned to Schriever Air Force Base in 
Colorado as the commander of the Space Warfare Center where he was 
responsible for advancing America's space capabilities and employment 
concepts.

For the past 2 years, Major General Darnell has been the Director of 
Legislative Liaison. During that time, he laid the legislative 
groundwork for procurement of four new major weapon systems, including 
Joint Strike Fighter, Joint Cargo Aircraft, Next Generation Combat 
Search and Rescue platform, and the $20 billion KC-X, the Air Force's 
No. 1 acquisition priority. His leadership, vision, and political 
acumen allowed the Air Force to break through years of congressional 
restrictions on aircraft retirements, resulting in the landmark $4 
billion 2007 National Defense Authorization Act language, a milestone 
year for Air Force recapitalization and fleet management. He flawlessly 
orchestrated the movement of more than 1,500 congressional delegation 
trips for Members and staff throughout the world.

Major General Darnell's mastery of complex issues and decisive 
leadership guided Air Force relations with Congress through a myriad of 
difficult issues to include Base Realignment and Closure, Total Force 
Integration, and a 40,000 personnel drawdown. Additionally, he was 
responsible for effectively communicating a consistent Air Force 
message that was the driving force behind approval of an unprecedented 
multiyear funding authorization for the F-22A Raptor, garnering 
approximately $411 million in Air Force savings.

On behalf of Congress and the United States of America, I thank Major 
General Darnell, his wife Vickie, and their entire family for their 
continued commitment, sacrifice, and contribution to this great Nation. 
I congratulate Major General Darnell on his selection to the rank of 
lieutenant general and wish him success as he transitions into his new 
job as Deputy Chief of Staff for Air, Space and Information Operations, 
Plans and Requirements.
