# THE DEFINITION OF HONESTY, INTEGRITY AND HONOR: CHAIRMAN CHARLES B.  RANGEL AND PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `72765ec8f72c97242132259af245de4c`
`Ms. KILPATRICK â€” 1 August 2008`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise in unequivocal, unapologetic, 
and unwavering support of one of the finest individuals who set the 
standard for statesmanship, excellence and principle in the U.S. House 
of Representatives, none other than the gentleman from the 15th 
Congressional District of New York, one of the founders of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, Chairman of the House Ways and Means 
Committee, Congressman Charles B. Rangel. Congressman Rangel, whom I am 
proud to count as not only one of my Congressional mentors, but also as 
a personal friend, has to take time from his schedule of, among other 
things, ensuring that all children have access to health care, ensuring 
that cigarettes are regulated, and that Congress figures out a way to 
pay for the education of the women and men who are fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, to defend himself against a charge levied in a newspaper 
that questions his very integrity, dignity and honor.

I was unavoidably detained, and I did not vote on this motion. If I 
had been present, I would have voted ''aye'' in favor of the motion to 
table.

It is without a single scintilla of doubt these charges against the 
Chairman, charges registered by Chairman Rangel himself with the House 
Ethics Committee, will arrive at one conclusion--the conclusion of 
innocence. Chairman Rangel's record of almost four decades of service, 
of dedication, of devotion not only to his constituents, but of the 
integrity of the institution of Congress, has earned him the right to a 
fast and fair examination and I would add exoneration of these charges. 
Chairman Rangel, along with my fellow Michigan colleague John Conyers, 
Jr., is the remaining founders of the Congressional Black Caucus who 
serve with us today. For the remainder of the 110th Congress, Chairman 
Rangel will have my personal support and assistance as he wages what 
will be a victorious fight against these charges.

What describes Chairman Rangel? Here are a few: outstanding attorney. 
One of the finest politicians in the history of New York. Civil rights 
worker. Founder of the most influential political organization in the 
history of Congress. The first African American Chairman of the 
powerful Ways and Means Committee. Husband. Father. Colleague. And 
finally, friend.

As I continue to pray for Chairman Rangel's continued good health, 
prosperity and fortune, I look forward to a fair and expeditious 
consideration of these charges by the House Ethics Committee. Chairman 
Rangel's importance to this body, as the leader of the Ways and


Means Committee, is far, far too valuable to both Congress and the 
nation to waste toward dilatory efforts to ruin his good name and bring 
him down. I know that, based upon the merit of the case, that the 
Chairman will be exonerated, the Chairman's innocence will prevail, and 
he will continue to handle the people's business in the manner that has 
brought honor, dignity and respect to the U.S. House of 
Representatives.
