# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `72836243805a3db3b2318e4c830cd6c0`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I will vote for these amendments 
today. Taken together, they provide necessary funding for our troops, 
set the stage for a responsible strategy of phased disengagement in 
Iraq, and address domestic needs and global concerns.

The war funding will pay for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq for 
the rest of this year and half of 2009. I support this because it will 
make it possible to provide the equipment, ammunition, fuel, and other 
supplies needed by our brave men and women serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan who have shown such extraordinary skill, determination and 
endurance in answering their call to service.

I opposed the Bush Administration's rush to war in Iraq, and voted 
against the resolution that authorized the president to send our armed 
forces into that country on the theory that this was necessary in order 
to deprive the Saddam Hussein regime of weapons of mass destruction. 
So, I understand why some of my constituents who also opposed the war 
want Congress to reject this funding measure.

And I could not agree more that the record of the current 
Administration demonstrates an enormous failure of leadership and that 
we desperately need new leadership that will bring to a close our open-
ended military engagement in Iraq and will refocus on the very urgent 
tasks of reducing the terrorist threats in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

But I am convinced that denying our men and women in uniform the 
resources they need to do their jobs is not the right way to bring 
about the change we need--especially because President Bush has shown 
he is prepared to veto funding for the troops rather than agree to 
change course.

Achieving the needed change in course is the point of the second 
amendment--the policy amendment--being considered today. It includes a 
range of provisions, including one that requires redeployment of our 
troops in Iraq to begin within 30 days and that states as a goal the 
completion of this withdrawal within 18 months.

As I've said before, I don't think there is a sustainable role for 
large numbers of U.S. troops in Iraq. While this provision sends the 
right message--that our troops cannot remain in Iraq indefinitely--
regrettably, it does not send it in the best way, because it will be 
supported almost exclusively by Democrats, and the president has 
already promised to veto any legislation that he says could tie his 
hands on Iraq.

What we need is consensus here at home on a path forward in Iraq. I 
still think the best way to achieve that consensus would be to focus on 
the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Those recommendations 
would be accomplished by legislation I introduced last year, which 
would support a course of escalating economic development, empowerment 
of local government, the provision of basic services, a 'surge' in 
regional and international diplomatic efforts, and lightening the 
American footprint in Iraq.

Today's policy amendment does not include the specific provisions 
from my Iraq Study Group bill, but it does include other important 
provisions--prohibiting military units that are not determined to be 
''mission capable'' from deploying; prohibiting deployment of U.S. 
forces that have not spent sufficient time at their home stations 
between tours of duty; prohibiting permanent bases in Iraq; requiring 
that reconstruction assistance to Iraq be provided in the form of a 
dollar-for-dollar match with the Iraqis; and cracking down on 
contractors engaged in fraud and profiteering, among other provisions.

These are things I think should be established policy, and I support 
them without hesitation.

Finally, the domestic and international assistance amendment provides 
increases for international food aid; rejects seven of the 
Administration's Medicaid regulations that will increase the cost of 
healthcare; extends unemployment benefits; provides increases in 
funding for the Bureau of Prisons; and provides enhanced education 
benefits for veterans, among other provisions.

I support these provisions because I think they are good for the 
country as a whole.

Some are especially important for Colorado--for example, we have a 
direct interest


in the funding increase staffing at federal prisons because our state 
has several such facilities and because recent events, including a riot 
that led to fatal shooting of inmates, have shown the need to increase 
those staffing levels.

And particularly important for America and the future of our society 
is the provision to improve veterans' education benefits to more 
closely resemble the GI Bill of Rights that made it possible for so 
many World War II veterans to go to college. The GI Bill of Rights 
helped make possible the postwar growth of the middle class that was 
one of the greatest achievements of the Greatest Generation. Some have 
complained about the cost of providing similar benefits to those who 
are serving today. But to put those costs--estimated at $52 billion 
over the next 10 years--into perspective, we should remember that so 
far our spending for military activities in Afghanistan and Iraq have 
exceeded $800 billion.

However, I do have some reservations about the way the amendment 
proposes to finance these benefits. To offset the cost, the amendment 
would impose a surtax of a half a percentage point on incomes of about 
$500,000 for individuals and $1 million for couples. It is estimated 
that this would increase federal revenues by some $54 billion over 10 
years, while the educational benefits are estimated to cost $52 billion 
over that period. So the amount of the tax increase is not excessive, 
and it is appropriate to target it in a way to apply to those best able 
to afford it. But I think there is validity to the concern that some 
small businesses--those whose profits are not covered by corporate 
taxes but are claimed as the personal income of their owners--could be 
disproportionately affected. I think this aspect can and should be 
reviewed as the legislative process continues, to see if appropriate 
adjustments should be made.

Mr. Speaker, I voted against war in Iraq because, as I said then, the 
Bush Administration was rushing to war without necessary international 
support or a clear plan to prevent the chaos that would follow after 
Saddam Hussein was overthrown. I was concerned a prolonged conflict 
would devolve into civil war. Since U.S. troops entered Iraq more than 
5 years ago, we have lost thousands of our brave servicemen and women, 
seen tens of thousands more wounded, and spent half a trillion dollars 
in taxpayer money.

Yet the President's mission is no clearer, he has still offered no 
exit strategy, our enemies in Afghanistan have regained their strength, 
and our armed forces have been stretched to the breaking point.

Only Democrats and Republicans working together can find the path out 
of Iraq. I will continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle on further steps we can take to change our broader Iraq policy. 
But today, I will support these amendments providing funding for our 
troops in the field, assistance for Americans suffering through the 
current economic downturn and people around the world suffering from 
spiraling food costs, and important policy measures to take care of our 
troops and remind Iraq's government that U.S. troops will not remain in 
Iraq indefinitely.