# MAINTAINING COMMITMENT TO NATO
## `729829b7dddd9f5fed0c43e33281e710`
`Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia — 30 March 2009`

---


Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as 
I may consume.

I rise in strong support of H. Res. 152 to reaffirm American 
commitment to the values and aspirations of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization.

Mr. Speaker, I want to particularly thank our colleague, John Tanner, 
our good friend from Tennessee and president of the NATO Parliamentary 
Assembly, for introducing this resolution. I commend him for his 
leadership in ensuring that the voices of legislators are heard in the 
decision-making process of the Alliance.

The NATO PA serves as a unique transatlantic forum for generating 
public support for Alliance activities, as well as in facilitating 
dialogue between parliamentarians of member, associate and observer 
states.

On April 3 and 4, NATO will hold its 60th anniversary summit in 
Strasbourg, France, and Kehl, Germany. The joint hosting of this 
meeting by two former adversaries poignantly symbolizes NATO's 
successful role in contributing to the reconstruction and stabilization 
of Europe following the devastation of World War II.

By serving as a reminder of the peaceful prosperity that has spread 
across the continent since the bloody battles of the earliest 20th 
century, this historic summit should bolster the Alliance's commitment 
to confronting the new challenges that affect NATO interests values.

In addition, Mr. Speaker, the world is a very different place than it 
was when the North Atlantic Treaty was signed in Washington, DC, on 
April 4, 1949, with the chief aim of deferring then-Soviet aggression. 
In the 20 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, NATO has sought to 
aid the democratization and Euro-Atlantic integration of former Warsaw 
Pact foes as well as to develop more cooperative relations with the 
Russian Federation.

NATO looks forward to welcoming the newest members of the Alliance, 
Albania and Croatia, at the upcoming summit. While pacing the process 
of enlargement, NATO remains prepared to extend invitations for 
accession negotiations to other European democracies meeting membership 
criteria.

In the last decade, NATO had increasingly sought to address new risks 
emerging from outside the treaty area itself that can threaten Euro-
Atlantic peace and security. Such challenges include terrorism, weapons 
of mass destruction, and disruption in the flow of emergency resources. 
The Alliance should begin considering a new strategic concept that 
takes into account the changing international security environment and 
outlines how to develop military capabilities accordingly.

NATO's first and most significant out-of-area mission has been in 
Afghanistan, where the Alliance is engaged in stabilization and 
reconstruction efforts amidst ongoing combat operations against the 
Taliban. We are now embarking on a new chapter of the U.S. and NATO 
missions to Afghanistan, one centered around the national election for 
President and on defeating al Qaeda and its Taliban allies.

NATO's role continues to be critical to the future success in 
Afghanistan, and achieving that success remains a considerable test, 
Mr. Speaker, of the Alliance's political will and military 
capabilities. It is crucial that allies remain committed to the 
mission, remedy shortfalls in all areas affecting successful 
engagement, and ensure equitable sharing of responsibilities.

Mr. Speaker, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is to be 
commended for its pivotal role of preserving transatlantic peace and 
stability over the last 60 years. I strongly support this resolution 
and urge my colleagues to do the same.

I reserve the balance of my time.