---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2007
## `72a9e80d49f08ea7c811dd8716a0f904`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, first, I would like to 
thank Chairman Rangel and Ranking Member McCrery for including H.R. 418 
into the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2007. For 
several years I have tried to get this measure to the House floor. So 
thank you, Mr. Neal, Mr. McDermott, and Mr. English.

H.R. 418 is a bill that would permit military families who receive 
the death gratuity to invest the full amount into certain tax-favored 
accounts. As you may know, a death gratuity is a $100,000 payment paid 
to survivors of servicemembers whose death resulted from combat-related 
circumstances. Current tax law limits the amount that recipients of the 
death gratuity can place in tax-preferred accounts, such as a Roth IRA 
or a Coverdell Educational Savings Account. This legislation would 
change that to allow recipients to contribute up to the full amount of 
the gratuity payment to any of those two accounts.

As the families of our fallen heroes try to put their lives back 
together, they need help. The death of a loved one is difficult enough, 
without having to worry about saving the death gratuity to pay for 
retirement, college or other expenses and then have the government come 
in and tax the interest on that savings.

Madam Speaker, the need for this assistance was brought to my 
attention by Captain Michael Ceres, a constituent stationed at Marine 
Corps Air Station New River. Captain Ceres, who just returned from 
serving in Iraq and will soon be redeployed, contacted my office and 
suggested that Congress institute this change to ease the burden on 
grieving military families. We owe it to our fallen military heroes to 
expand the options to the families who receive the death gratuity, 
families who have paid the ultimate cost with the loss of their loved 
one.

Today, I call on all my colleagues in the House to support this major 
piece of legislation, known as the Heroes Earnings Assistance and 
Relief Tax Act of 2007. With that, I want to thank the leadership on 
the Democratic side, the leadership on the Republican side for this 
comprehensive bill to help our military and their families.