---
---

# None
## `72b02f80608da4c7ce2e1f67f40432f2`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman from Florida for yielding.

You know, it is funny. This is my first time as a member of the 30-
Something Group, and I know I am the puppy of the group because I am 
only 33 years old. So when I ran for Congress, I had tremendous support 
from the network community, those bloggers out there all across 
America. But there are bloggers, especially in Philadelphia and greater 
Philadelphia and the suburbs that blog every day, and they got so 
excited when the 30-Something Group was their voice when you were in 
the minority. Your voice in talking about progressive values, talking 
about the things in the New Direction, that if we were just given the 
chance, we would lead. And when we got that chance just a few months 
ago in the 110th Congress, those bloggers, that network community, are 
just so proud of their efforts. And it is neat for me to be here to 
think that when we had a rebirth in our country and Philadelphia, the 
city of Philadelphia was part of that rebirth and to know that six of 
the ten biggest bloggers in our country are from Philadelphia and the 
Philadelphia suburbs. People like Chris Bowers of MyDD and Duncan Black 
of Atrios and how they are following the 30-Something Group every day 
and to be part of this group now is just a really proud moment.

And another proud moment that the gentleman from Florida mentioned is 
the fact that today is the 20th anniversary of the public service of 
the Speaker of the House, Ms. Nancy Pelosi from California. And when I 
was in this body just a few months ago speaking and taking that oath of 
office, taking that oath to support and defend the Constitution of the 
United States as a Member of Congress, and when I was there with my 
wife, Jenni, and my 6-month old, at that time a month old, daughter, 
Maggie Murphy, and I know, Mr. Speaker, that they are watching at home 
on C-SPAN because I am down here trying to work on behalf of our great 
country, I know that I was thinking of not just the folks that are over 
in Iraq, those men that I served with or those men that I had taught 
when I was a professor at West Point, but I thought about my month-old 
daughter, Maggie, and I thought about what an incredible story it is 
that when she was born into this great country, the third most powerful 
person is a woman, the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

And I thought about a role model. Here is this Italian Catholic woman 
originally from Baltimore, now in San Francisco, and the criticism 
about the Speaker before she got in here was that she wasn't going to 
do a good job or she was going to lead from the left. She has really 
made this a House united. She has reached across the aisle to the 
Republicans. She has tried to lead in a moderate fashion, and I think 
we have to give her a lot of credit. I know the analysts have said that 
she is getting high marks as the Speaker, and I know that I am proud 
that she is our Speaker and I am proud to serve under her leadership.

I will keep my remarks relatively brief. It is my maiden voyage here 
with the 30-Something Group, and I am joined as well with one of my 
brothers, the other Murphy, Chris Murphy, who is the elder statesman 
from Connecticut, who is a whole, I think, 30 some days older than I 
am, and I know tonight the Speaker Pro Tempore is the gentleman from 
the great State of Indiana, the sheriff, but tonight I want to speak 
about the New Direction that we are bringing about.

Finally, the rubber stamp Congress of the past is gone and the do 
something Congress is here. And we all campaigned in saying that we 
were going to hold President Bush accountable. And I had served in 
Baghdad as a captain with the 82nd Airborne Division, and I am so proud 
of my military service. My father served during Vietnam in the Navy. My 
grandfather served. My brother is still serving in the Air Force. And I 
think back to those times and what you come to expect of the Congress. 
And our men and women who are serving so honorably fight for our 
country. They fight to support and defend the Constitution of the 
United States, and they execute the public policy as it is drafted and 
implemented here in Washington.

And I know that I get e-mails from Iraq and Afghanistan and those 
heroes talk about sometimes they don't know what the policy necessarily 
should be, but what they do appreciate is the fact that we are actually 
having a debate, that we are actually asking the tough questions 
necessary. So when we talk about a New Direction in this 110th 
Congress, when we talk about accountability, part of that is what we 
just passed out of the Armed Services Committee with the defense 
appropriations bill. Talking about in Iraq when we give the Iraqis 
support, why is it that 4 years later they are still, for the most 
part, sitting on the sidelines? Why is it that we gave them pallets and 
pallets, crates and crates of literally U.S. money and pallets stacked 
this high, shipped it over to Baghdad, gave it out, and billions and 
billions of dollars are simply missing?

When we talk about accountability, we have to talk about the weapons 
that we have given the Iraqis. In the United States military, and I 
joined it back in 1993, we are taught pretty early that your weapon is 
your best friend. There was even a cadence that I used to sing when I 
would jog in the morning and run troops, ''I used to date a beauty 
queen; now I date my M-16.'' And it is kind of funny, but it is true in 
that you are always around your weapon. It is part of that 
accountability. If you lose your weapon, that is the end of your 
career. You will be lucky if you don't get court-martialed.


But how that relates to Iraq is we have given the Iraqis 14,000 
weapons, AK-47s, M-16s, that are now missing. Think about that. We have 
given 14,000 weapons to the Iraqis that are completely missing, 
unaccounted for. That is not the accountability that our taxpayers are 
expecting. That is not the accountability that we should be expecting 
when we fight the war on terror because when you give billions of 
dollars over in Iraq, when you give 14,000 weapons to Iraq that are now 
just missing, that affects the lives of our soldiers. And we cannot 
stand for that.

I would also like to talk about accountability when it comes to 
Afghanistan and Pakistan. Almost 6 years ago,


our Nation was attacked by Osama bin Laden. Thousands of innocent 
civilians, innocent Americans were murdered on September 11 of 2001. 
The culprit: Osama bin Laden. He was in Afghanistan. He trained al 
Qaeda, and al Qaeda was really given a free pass by the government 
there, the Taliban. And we made a decision. We got a coalition. We got 
Canada and all these other countries going in there in Afghanistan to 
do the job. And then a short time later, President Bush said, no, let's 
change our focus to Iraq. Well, we have ten times more troops now in 
Iraq now than in Afghanistan. And when we talk about accountability, 
you have to ask the question, what are we doing to get Osama bin Laden? 
Why is it that we give Pakistan billions of dollars? We actually give 
Pakistan $80 million a month because we have intelligence that is 
unclassified that we can talk about here in this setting that Osama bin 
Laden is in Afghanistan and possibly on the border of Pakistan. So we 
need Pakistan's help as an ally.

Why is it that President Musharraf has outsourced the hunt for Osama 
bin Laden to his regional warlords?

Years ago we learned that we outsourced the hunt for Osama bin Laden 
in Tora Bora and he slipped through our fingers when we had a chance. 
We can't repeat the same mistakes. So if we are giving support to 
Pakistan and Afghanistan, which we should, they are our allies, we need 
to demand accountability. We need to demand the accountability that the 
American taxpayers, that the American families, and that the American 
soldiers deserve.

And the last point I would like to bring up on my maiden voyage here 
in the 30-something Group is education. One of the greatest jobs I ever 
had was being a professor at West Point teaching constitutional 
military law. And it was the Constitution that those young cadets who 
were about to become second lieutenants were going to take an oath to 
support and defend. And education is vital for Americans and our 
students to be more and more competitive in a global economy.

I joke with the gentleman from Florida we are not competing in my 
district in Bucks County for jobs against Florida. As I look at Mr. 
Altmire, we are not competing with the folks in Pittsburgh in Bucks 
County. I look at the congressman from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy). We are 
not competing with jobs necessarily against the folks in Connecticut. 
We are competing for jobs with people in China and South Korea and 
Japan and in Europe. And we need to have high investment in education 
so we remain more competitive.

And this gets me into our national debt. Right now our debt is over 
$9 trillion. So that means every man, woman, and child in America owes 
over $29,000 to our national debt. So that means when my daughter, 
Maggie, was born 6 months ago at Lower Bucks Hospital in Bucks County, 
Pennsylvania, she was born in that hospital and she owed $29,000 to our 
national debt. That is a debt that we owe to foreign countries like 
communist China, like Japan, like South Korea, like Mexico. We keep 
borrowing and borrowing and borrowing and borrowing.

Now, when I am back home, people say to me, Patrick, we are at war. 
Of course it is going to cost money.

And I say, $9 trillion we have in debt, $9 trillion; yet this war in 
Iraq has only cost at this point about $450 billion. That is a huge 
difference.

And how it relates to education is just in March of 2007, we paid $21 
billion just that month on the interest rate to this debt, just paying 
off the interest rate that we owe, $21 billion. But that same month we 
only paid $5 billion in education. So what we spend on education, $5 
billion, we spend four times that much that same month on our interest 
rate on our debt.

We need a change and we are making that change happen here in the 
110th Congress. And I am proud to be part of it. I am proud to be part 
of the leadership to make sure we do what is necessary, establishing a 
pay-as-you-go system, doing the things necessary to hold all of us 
accountable and this government accountable.

So I would say to the gentleman of Florida, thank you for giving me 
the opportunity on this maiden voyage. I look forward to many more 
times back here with the 30-something Group, and I am proud of all 
those supporters not just back home in Bucks County and northeast 
Philadelphia and Montgomery County and the network community. I am 
proud, on this 20th anniversary, of the public service of our leader, 
Speaker Pelosi, to be here amongst the 30-something Group. Thank you so 
much.

