---
---

# None
## `72b5d458e87cfca65800ccf43754376a`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume 
to close at this time.

Mr. Speaker, I will be asking Members to oppose the previous question 
so that I may amend the rule to have Speaker Pelosi, in consultation 
with Republican Leader Boehner, immediately appoint conferees to H.R. 
2642, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations 
bill for 2008.

Yesterday a number of news publications, including Roll Call, 
reported that the Democrat leadership intends to hold off sending 
appropriations bills to President Bush so that they can use an upcoming 
anticipated veto of the Labor-HHS appropriations bill to serve as ''an 
extension of their successful public relations campaign on the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program.''

While the Democrat leadership plays politics on this issue, however, 
our Nation's veterans are paying the price. For every day that the 
Democrats allow the veterans funding bill to languish without conferees 
for their own political agenda, our Nation's veterans lose $18.5 
million, which could be used for veterans health care, veterans 
housing, and other important support activities for veterans and their 
families.

I would like to repeat that. Every single day there is $18.5 million 
that is lost for our veterans and their families.

On October 18, the American Legion National Commander Marty J. 
Conaster, five national vice commanders, and all 55 Legion National 
Executive Committee members sent Speaker Pelosi a letter pleading with 
her to put partisanship aside and provide this funding now for our 
veterans and troops.



At this time, I will insert this letter into the Congressional 
Record.























The American Legion,
















 Indianapolis, IN, October 18, 2007.


 Hon. Nancy Pelosi,


 Speaker, House of Representatives,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Speaker Pelosi: Today ends the Fall meeting of The 


 American Legion's National Executive Committee, at The 


 American Legion's National Headquarters in Indianapolis, 


 Indiana. The National Executive Committee consists of an 


 elected leader from each of The American Legion's 55 


 Departments (50 States, the District of Columbia and four 


 foreign countries). In accordance with The American Legion's 


 National Constitution and By-laws, the National Executive 


 Committee serves as The American Legion's governing body.



 The National Commander Marty Conatser briefed The National 


 Executive Committee on an array of issues to include the 


 status of the VA budget for FY 2008. The fiscal activities of 


 the 110th Congress--the FY 2007 Continuing Resolution, the 


 Budget Resolution for FY 2008, and the passage of the 


 Military Construction, Veterans' Affairs and Related Agencies 


 Appropriations for FY 2008 were reviewed.



 However, in trying to grasp why such a bipartisan bill, 


 which passed overwhelmingly in both chambers, still hasn't 


 moved in over a month is rather difficult, especially since 


 the President has already said he would not veto the bill, 


 even though it exceeds his recommendations. Understanding why 


 the appropriations process has come to a complete halt is 


 difficult. What is preventing the appointment of conferees, 


 the Conference Committee, or passage of a Conference Report?



 We are now in the new fiscal year with no idea when the Mil 


 Con-VA appropriations will be passed. If history repeats 


 itself, this standoff may last well into the second quarter 


 of the fiscal year. This uncertainty is disturbing to not 


 only The American Legion and other veterans' and military 


 service organizations, but to every veteran who is dependent 


 on VA for timely access to quality health care, earned 


 benefits, and other services provided by a grateful nation.



 Madam Speaker, the newest generation of wartime veterans 


 are reporting to VA medical facilities every day as troops 


 are returning from deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. Some 


 will be determined to be service-connected disabled because 


 of medical conditions incurred or aggravated while on active-


 duty. Others may very well have invisible scars that need 


 attention as soon as possible. As VA welcomes new patients, 


 the existing patient population cannot be ignored nor should 


 their health care be rationed due to limited available 


 resources. There are veterans dependent on VA as their 


 life-support system.



 The American Legion represents 2.6 million wartime 


 veterans, but also speaks for the 24 million veterans of the 


 United States Armed Forces and their families.



 Please continue the appropriations process--name conferees, 


 convene the Conference Committee, and pass the Conference 


 Report.





 Sincerely,




 Marty Conatser, National Commander; Thomas L. Burns, Jr. 





 (DE), National Vice Commander; Randall A. Fisher (KY), 





 National Vice Commander; David A. Korth (WI), National 





 Vice Commander; James L. Van Horn (AK), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Ross Rogers (AK), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Peggy G. Dettori (AK), National 





 Vice Commander; Donald Hayden (MN), National Vice 





 Commander; Floyd W. Turner (AL), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Julius Maklary (AZ), National Executive 





 Committeeman; James W. Hackney (CA), National Executive 





 Committeeman.




 Jeff Luginbuel (CO), National Executive Committeeman; 





 John J. Jackson (DE), National Executive Committeeman; 





 Robert J. Proctor (FL), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Ray Hendrix (GA), National Executive 





 Committeeman; Cleve Rice (ID), National Executive 





 Committeeman; W. Darrell Hansel (IN), National 





 Executive Committeeman; David O. Warnken (KS), National 





 Executive Committeeman; Charles D. Aucoin (LA), 





 National Executive Committeeman; Dr. Gordon B. Browning 





 (MD), National Executive Committeeman; Richard W. 





 Anderson (CT), National Executive Committeeman; Paul H. 