# HONORING THE LIFE OF CORPORAL PHILIP CHARTE
## `72bbf526b440751ad1006183ad3d9d10`
`Mr. MURPHY of New York — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. MURPHY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with the very sad 
duty of reporting the tragic loss of U.S. Marine Corps Corporal Philip 
Charte. He had just turned 22 years old. Charte was killed in action in 
Afghanistan on Monday, September 6, 2010.

Corporal Charte, a rifleman, joined the Marines in June 2007, the 
same day he graduated high school. Last year he served in Iraq; and 
after being promoted to Corporal little more than a few months ago, he 
was deployed once again, this time to Afghanistan.

Corporal Charte was willing to give his life in service to all of us 
and to the country he loved. Our gratitude cannot simply be expressed 
nor our sorrow properly conveyed.

Charte will be remembered as many things: a prankster, a dedicated 
athlete, a competitor and a teammate. But above all else, he was a 
soldier, serving his country and community with honor.

While Philip lived in New Hampshire, he grew up and his family still 
lives in Washington County in New York. My heart goes out to Philip's 
father, also named Philip, and his sister, Alicia.

His father perhaps said it best: ''Philip served his country with 
courage, honor and distinction. He was a great son, brother, nephew, 
uncle and friend. He will be missed sorely.''

On behalf of a grateful Nation, our thoughts and prayers are with the 
entire Charte family during this incredibly difficult time.
