---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `72bc8856966285fc3b2171078fbacb8a`
`Mr. CORNYN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, if this amendment sounds familiar, it is 
because I offered this amendment roughly 10 days ago. In response to my 
colleague from Illinois, this is virtually the same amendment I offered 
during the consideration of the Transportation and Housing and Urban 
Development appropriations bill, to which the other side of the aisle 
raised a point of order, and it was judged not germane.

I respect that ruling on that bill, but we are back here today, 10 
days later, on the Defense authorization bill--a bill to which this 
amendment is clearly germane. I want to make a few points.

First of all, for my colleagues' recollection, I have in the Chamber 
a copy of the ad that ran on September 9, 2007, immediately before GEN 
David Petraeus came to testify before the Congress, along with 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker, the Ambassador to Iraq from the United States.

It is important for colleagues to recognize that this ad ran before 
the general came to testify, even though it had been well known the 
general would come back in September 2007 and report on progress on the 
fight in Iraq, both from a military as well as a diplomatic 
perspective.

So it is clear, at least to me, the purpose of this ad was to smear 
the good name of this four-star U.S. Army general, the commander of 
multinational forces in Iraq, before he even had a chance to make his 
report to the Congress and to the American people on the progress of 
the surge of forces and of operations in Iraq.

As the amendment, which has been read, indicates, General Petraeus is 
the senior commander on the ground for the United States and coalition 
forces in Iraq. Before the general testified, this ad placed in the New 
York Times--apparently at a discounted rate below the $167,000 ad rate 
which ordinarily would be charged for a full-page ad in the Sunday New 
York Times--this ad, which was sold at a discount by the New York Times 
to MoveOn.Org, asks the question: ''General Petraeus or General Betray 
Us?'' and accused this professional soldier of ''Cooking the Books for 
the White House.''

It goes on--and all of us can read--to further disparage the good 
reputation of this professional soldier and someone who is responsible 
for roughly 170,000 American men and women wearing the uniform of the 
United States military in Iraq.

The reason why MoveOn.org bought this false ad was because they were 
afraid of what General Petraeus would indeed report when he testified 
before Congress a week or so ago.

In fact, General Petraeus testified that ''the military objectives of 
the surge are, in large measure, being met.''

He told us the ''overall number of security incidents in Iraq has 
declined in 8 of the past 12 weeks,'' preceding his testimony.

He said: ''Coalition and Iraqi forces have dealt significant blows to 
Al Qaeda-Iraq.''

He said: ''We have also disrupted Shia militia extremists.''

He went on to testify that ''Coalition and Iraqi operations have 
helped reduce ethno-sectarian violence, as well [as] bringing down the 
number of ethno-sectarian deaths substantially in Baghdad and across 
Iraq since the height of the sectarian violence last December.''

He said: ''The number of civilian deaths has also declined during 
this [same] period.''

If that sounds familiar, it is because General Petraeus's testimony 
was preceded by the issuance of the National Intelligence Estimate on 
Iraq, issued just the preceding month, which basically came to the same 
conclusions as General Petraeus.

The National Intelligence Estimate, of course, represents the 
considered opinion of the intelligence community of the U.S. 
Government. It is delivered by the Director of National Intelligence 
pursuant to requirements of Congress in law.

The National Intelligence Estimate, issued just last month by the 
U.S. intelligence community, found there have been ''measurable 
improvements'' in Iraq's security situation since last January before 
General Petraeus's implementation of the new strategy.

The NIE, or National Intelligence Estimate, found that if our troops 
continue to execute the current strategy, Iraq's security environment 
will continue to improve over the next 6 to 12 months; and that 
changing the U.S. mission in Iraq would erode security gains achieved 
thus far.

Well, it is not just General Petraeus's testimony. It is not just the 
National Intelligence Estimate that was rendered last month. We had a 
commission created by the Congress, headed by former Marine GEN James 
Jones, and with a group of commissioners whose cumulative military 
experience exceeds 500 years. Also on this commission were a number of 
police chiefs and other law enforcement personnel with more than 150 
years of law enforcement experience.

So it is clear by virtue of their experience they have a solid basis 
for the judgment they rendered. Well, it is important to note that not 
only did General Petraeus testify, as I have indicated, not only has 
the National Intelligence Estimate said what I quoted, the Jones 
Commission also found that the Iraqi Armed Forces--the Army, Special 
Forces, Navy, and Air Force--are increasingly effective and are capable 
of assuming greater responsibility for the internal security of Iraq.

The commission--we were told before a hearing in the Armed Services 
Committee, on which I sit--thinks that over the next 12 to 18 months 
the Iraqi forces will continue to improve their readiness and 
capability.

I noted during the testimony of General Petraeus that this is one of 
the first times I can think of where the messenger was shot for 
delivering good news. In other words, this ad run in the New York Times 
before the general testified is contradicted by not only his testimony 
but by the National Intelligence Estimate I mentioned and the Jones 
Commission, representing more than 500 years of military experience. It 
is sad to say but true that this ad represents what I would consider to 
be a sign of the times.


Now, I know the distinguished majority whip is on the floor, and I 
recall that when I offered this bill on the


Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill, we 
had a colloquy talking about: Well, everybody makes mistakes. 
Occasionally, people will misspeak and not accurately say what they 
intend to convey. But since this ad ran, since the time the 
distinguished majority whip and I had this colloquy, MoveOn.Org has 
expressed its pride at running this ad. In other words, they said they 
were glad for what this ad conveys. They are not ashamed of it. They 
didn't say it was a mistake or they misspoke; they continue to stand 
behind this slur on the good name of General Petraeus, a man who is 
sworn to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States and to 
do everything in his professional ability to win the conflict in Iraq.

So even before Congress received the Petraeus-Crocker reports, we 
know some critics had already declared the surge to be a failure. There 
are those who said they didn't care what General Petraeus had to say.

Now, after General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have reported, 
some of these same people are, such as MoveOn.Org, questioning their 
judgment--which is their right--but also their motivation, which I 
think if they are agreeing with the motivation that is expressed in 
this ad, I respectfully disagree with them.

It is puzzling why some of my colleagues insist on moving the 
goalpost for our military. In fact, I think what they experience is 
what happens when anybody bets against the U.S. military. It is 
dangerous to do because they are going to lose if they are betting 
against the men and women of the U.S. military. I cannot fathom how the 
success of our troops in improving the security situation in Iraq could 
possibly be construed as a bad thing for our Nation, but some 
apparently, including MoveOn.Org, seem to think it is.

I refuse to stand by while a group such as MoveOn.Org demeans the 
good name of an American soldier who represents, in turn, 170,000 
American soldiers, sailors, marines and airmen and Coast Guard. I 
refuse to stand by while this group demeans the good name of our men 
and women in the U.S. military who have given so much for our country. 
The military service of General Petraeus alone is spotless, and he has 
proven time and time again, with his blood, his sweat and his tears, 
his patriotism and his love for our country. As a matter of fact, one 
would be hard-pressed to find another military officer with the 
qualifications that are as impressive as General Petraeus. Currently 
serving his third combat tour in Iraq, he has literally been there and 
done that, and he has done it with dignity, with honor, and devotion to 
service.

Today, I offer all my colleagues a chance to clear the air and set 
the record straight. For some of them, voting for this amendment may 
represent a chance to show true moral courage and true political 
courage as well. My amendment expresses the sense of the Senate that 
GEN David Petraeus and all the members of our Armed Forces are to be 
supported and honored and that any effort to attack their honor and 
their integrity should be condemned; particularly before the general 
was able to even deliver his testimony, where MoveOn.Org and these 
critics could not have known what he was going to say, and that clearly 
the goal of this ad and MoveOn.Org was to undermine public confidence 
in the messenger before the messenger even had a chance to deliver that 
message. My amendment expresses a sense of the Senate that General 
Petraeus and all the members of our Armed Forces should be protected 
and defended against an attack on their honor and integrity.

By introducing this amendment, I call on all Senators to tell America 
they do not condone such character assassination of those who are sworn 
to protect the very freedom we enjoy and the very system of government 
in which we all serve. Our military servicemembers simply deserve 
better. I hope all Members of the Senate would join with me in 
supporting this amendment.