---
---

# None
## `72c374c440152b99f06c6ce721aa338a`
`Mr. BIDEN — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. We incorporated the exact language I was originally given, 
with the advice of my colleague from Virginia, and it says:




 A central focus of al-Qaida in Iraq has been to turn 


 sectarian division in Iraq into sectarian violence through a 


 concentrated series of attacks, the most significant being 


 the destruction of the Golden Dome.


So that is one change, one addition we made. A second change we made 
was at the request, I believe, and I would stand corrected, of both the 
chairman and the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, which 
was deleting a word. It says:




 Iraq must reach a comprehensive and sustainable political 


 settlement in order--


No, that is not true. I am getting the wrong section. I will ask my 
staff what the second change is, and I will go to the third change. The 
reason I can't find the change is because we took out the word, and I 
am trying to recall where we took the word out.

The third thing we changed is the provision in the original 
resolution to incorporate the strongly held view of the chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee that we not be forcing upon Iraq anything that 
is inconsistent with their wishes. The paragraph originally read:




 The United States should actively support a political 


 settlement in Iraq based upon the final provisions of the 


 Constitution of Iraq that create a federal system of 


 government and allow for certain federal regions consistent 


 with the wishes of the Iraqi people and their elected 


 leaders.


And then, I believe at the request or suggestion of the distinguished 
ranking member from Virginia, the actual last paragraph of the 
resolution, paragraph 5, says:




 Nothing in this act should be construed in any way to 
infringe on the sovereign rights of the Nation of Iraq.


Again, both my colleagues can explain their motivation better than I, 
but the central point that is attempted to be achieved is to make it 
clear that neither Senator Brownback nor I, nor any of the cosponsors, 
believe we should be imposing a political solution on the Iraqi people. 
It is sort of self-evident to me that you cannot impose a political 
solution. A political solution has to be arrived at by the competing 
parties. I would argue, as I think my colleagues in the Armed Services 
Committee would agree now, that what we are doing is consistent with 
Iraq's Constitution and consistent with the ability of the Iraqis to 
further amend their Constitution to come to a different conclusion.