---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `72e95997e57754148b831ffa930f75a3`
`Mr. LEAHY — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, at the beginning of this debate, I said 
Congress committed a historic error when it eliminated the Great Writ 
of habeas corpus because it did it not just for those detained at 
Guantanamo Bay--that raises enough questions about our sense of history 
and our sense of our own basic jurisprudence in this country--but 
Congress also eliminated it for millions--millions--of permanent legal 
residents here in the United States. Some of them are professors in our 
finest schools, others are medical people in our hospitals, and some 
are actually serving in our law enforcement and in our military. 
Listening to the arguments these past few days of those opposed to 
restoring habeas rights, it becomes ever more apparent that this was a 
mistake the last Congress and the administration made based on fear. I 
cannot think of a greater mistake than one based on fear in the most 
powerful Nation on Earth.


Opponents make the alarmist argument that if we permit people to 
challenge their detention in Federal court, we will jeopardize our 
national security and place ourselves in greater danger. In fact, of 
course, the opposite is true.

We have heard these kinds of arguments before during trying and 
turbulent times in American history, such as when the Government 
shamefully interned tens of thousands of Japanese-Americans during 
World War II. We should know by now that it hurts this country, and 
especially our men and women in uniform, when we allow public policy to 
be guided by fear, rather than by American values and freedoms.

The critics of habeas restoration resort to scare tactics because 
they know that history and the facts are against them.

The truth is that casting aside the time-honored protection of habeas 
corpus makes us more vulnerable as a nation because it leads us away 
from our core American values and calls into question our historic role 
as the defender of human rights around the world. It also allows our 
enemies to accomplish something they could never achieve on the 
battlefield--the whittling away of liberties that make us who we are, 
the liberties we fought during the Revolutionary War to preserve, the 
liberties we fought a civil war to preserve, the liberties we defended 
not only our own freedom but the freedom of much of the Western World 
in two world wars to preserve.

The need for the Great Writ has never been stronger than it is today. 
We have an administration that at every opportunity has aggressively 
sought unchecked executive power while working to erode or to eliminate 
constitutionally enshrined checks on that power by the courts and by 
Congress. Stripping away habeas rights which allow people to go to 
court to challenge detention by the executive is just the latest brazen 
attempt in a 6-year-long effort to consolidate power in the executive 
branch. You could have picked up somebody, locked them up, and all that 
person wants to say is: I am not the person named here. Before we did 
this, someone could at least get a writ of habeas corpus, go to the 
court, and say: I am not going to contest the case or anything else, 
but just the fact that you picked up the wrong person. They can't even 
do that now. This is America?

The writ of habeas corpus is not some special benefit to be honored 
only when it is convenient. As no less a conservative than Justice 
Antonin Scalia has written, ''[t]he very core of liberty secured by our 
Anglo-Saxon system of separated powers has been freedom from indefinite 
imprisonment at the will of the Executive.'' Habeas has served for 
centuries to protect individuals against unlawful exercises of state 
power.

Habeas corpus is the only common law writ enshrined in the 
Constitution. Article I, section 9 provides that the ''Writ of Habeas 
Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of rebellion or 
invasion the public Safety may require it.'' The Judiciary Act of 1789 
specifically empowered federal courts to issue writs of habeas corpus 
''for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment.'' In more 
than two centuries since then, habeas has only been suspended four 
times, all of them at times of active rebellion or invasion. Even this 
administration does not claim that we are at such a point now.

The Military Commissions Act of 2006 spurned centuries of tradition 
and empowered the executive to detain noncitizens potentially forever, 
with no meaningful check by another branch of Government. With this 
act, Congress permanently eliminated the writ of habeas corpus for any 
noncitizen determined to be an enemy combatant or even awaiting such 
determination. If the determination hasn't been made, we are going to 
spend a few years making up our minds whether you are an enemy 
combatant, but you still can't contest the fact that we have picked up 
the wrong person. So a mere accusation by the executive is enough to 
keep a person in custody indefinitely, and that detention is not 
subject to review. As our Founders knew well, no administration--no 
administration, not this one, not the next one, not the one after 
that--can be trusted with that kind of power.

The Specter-Leahy amendment would restore the proper balance of power 
between the branches of Government by reestablishing the law on habeas 
as it existed prior to the passage of the Detainee Treatment Act and 
the Military Commissions Act. It creates no new legal rights. The U.S. 
Supreme Court confirmed in the Rasul case that American and British 
courts have routinely assumed jurisdiction over habeas claims made by 
aliens.

British courts in the 18th century considered habeas claims of aliens 
held as enemy combatants, as did the U.S. Supreme Court during World 
War II, a war where we faced the possible destruction of democracy. 
These courts considered habeas claims of alien enemy combatants who had 
already received military trials--meaning even before their habeas 
claims, they had already received more process than most noncitizen 
detainees will ever get now. Our legendary Chief Justice, John 
Marshall, in one instance granted relief to an alien enemy combatant 
bringing a habeas claim. In most of these historical cases, though, 
habeas petitioners lost and were not granted any relief, and indeed 
most habeas petitioners have their claims dismissed with a simple, one-
page ruling from a judge. This historical record is evidence that 
habeas can be relied upon as a necessary, but entirely reasonable, 
check on Executive power.


As in the past, noncitizen detainees alleged to be enemy combatants 
should at least have the right to go into an independent court to 
assert that they are being held in error--not to have a trial but at 
least to say: Hey, we read the warrant, this is not the person--I am 
not the person named; you picked up the wrong person. They can't even 
ask an independent court to determine that.

As in the past, a court will only grant habeas relief if the 
petitioner is able to, in fact, establish this effort.


We are not talking about having a trial with all of these red herrings 
we have heard from those on the other side, who say that somehow we 
would have to bring in battlefield tactics or we would have to bring in 
classified information. That is not it. That is not it. We are talking 
about just being able to at least contest the fact that they have been 
picked up.

If the detainees held at Guantanamo truly are the worst of the worst 
of our enemies, as this administration claims, surely it will be easy 
for the Government to make a baseline showing in court that they are 
lawfully detained. If they are really such enemies, we ought to at 
least know that and know that they were lawfully detained. Of course, 
senior government and military officials have told the press a story 
very different from the party line. They have told the New York Times 
that the Government detained many of the Guantanamo detainees in error.

In any case, the sweep of the Military Commissions Act goes well 
beyond the few hundred detainees held at Guantanamo Bay. It threatens 
the civil liberties of an estimated 12 million lawful, permanent 
residents of the United States. They work here, they pay taxes in this 
country, and under current law, any of these people can be detained 
forever without the ability to challenge their detention in Federal 
court simply on the executive say-so, even if the Government made a 
mistake and picked up the wrong person. As we heard from Professor 
Mariano-Florentino Cuellar at the Judiciary Committee's hearing on this 
issue, this is of particular concern to the Latino community, which 
includes so many of the hard-working lawful permanent residents in this 
country.

The cursory review process set up by Congress for detainees, called 
combatant status review tribunals or CSRTs, is no substitute for habeas 
corpus because, among many other deficiencies, it does not provide a 
neutral arbiter--a Federal judge--to review the factual record for 
error. This summer, LTC Stephen Abraham, a military lawyer who 
participated in the CSRT process, said in a sworn affidavit that the 
evidence presented to CSRTs ''lack[s] even the most fundamental 
earmarks of objectively credible evidence.'' He also said that 
superiors pressured the officers on review panels to find detainees to 
be ''enemy combatants.'' That is neither just nor fair, and rigged 
tribunals are not the way this country has ever dispensed justice, nor 
the way it should. Court review allowed under current law that relies 
on the findings of such a flawed system falls well short of the 
independent review that our system of checks and balances demands.

Restoring habeas would send a clear message that when we promote 
democracy and the importance of human rights to the rest of the world, 
we are practicing what we preach. I have heard so many speeches on the 
floor of this body--and I agree with them--criticizing other countries 
for doing what we have done. How do we go to these other countries and 
say: You can't do this. And they say: But you do it. And we say: Oh, 
well, that was the war on terror; we are facing this great threat, so 
we have to do it, but you shouldn't do it. Well, we need to listen to 
our military leaders and our foreign policy specialists on this point 
who disagree with what we have done.

The former Navy Judge Advocate General Donald Guter told the 
Judiciary Committee in May that by stripping even our enemies of basic 
rights, we are providing a pretext to those who capture our troops or 
our civilians to deny them basic rights. What do we say the next time 
an American civilian, lawfully in another country, is picked up and 
detained and not even allowed to raise the point that they picked up 
the wrong person, and we go to that country, and they say: Hey, wait a 
minute, that is what you do in your country; don't preach to us. Your 
American citizen is going to stay behind bars. We are just doing to you 
what you are allowed to do to us.

William H. Taft IV, former Deputy Secretary of Defense under 
President George H. W. Bush, and a former State Department adviser in 
the current administration, told us that stripping the courts of habeas 
jurisdiction sacrificed an important opportunity to enhance the 
credibility of our detention system. Restoring habeas to detainees will 
improve our strategic and diplomatic positions in the world and remove 
a rallying point for our enemies.

The right to habeas corpus is a limited right. Habeas, as I said 
before, does not give a person the right to a trial. It does not give a 
habeas petitioner a right to personally appear in court. It most 
certainly does not mean that U.S. service men and women will be pulled 
from the battlefield to testify in such proceedings, notwithstanding 
the alarmist comments made on the other side of the aisle. All the 
Government must do to defeat a habeas claim is demonstrate to a judge 
by a preponderance of the evidence that the detainee is being lawfully 
held. That is all.

Most habeas petitions are rejected by the Federal courts without the 
need to call a single witness. I certainly knew that when I was a 
prosecutor. Any time I ever sent anybody to prison for more than a 
year, I knew there would be half a dozen habeas petitions filed. They 
would usually be denied without even ever having called a single 
witness. In fact, habeas petitions can be, and routinely are, disposed 
of in Federal court based on a single affidavit by a Government agent 
explaining the basis for detention. I simply sent over an affidavit 
showing the date and time of conviction to the court clerks. That is 
all I had to do. Habeas simply provides an opportunity for a detainee 
to argue to an independent Federal judge that he or she is being held 
in error. If the detainee is properly held, the Government can easily 
overcome that claim. The distinguished Presiding Officer was a 
distinguished U.S. attorney. He understands very well that point.


Recent history makes clear that restoring habeas will not invite 
habeas litigation from abroad, as some have claimed. The Supreme Court 
found habeas jurisdiction at Guantanamo Bay because Guantanamo is, for 
all intents and purposes, a U.S. territory. U.S. courts have found no 
habeas jurisdiction in the case of enemies captured, detained, and held 
in Iraq. There was no flood of international habeas petitions following 
the 2004 Rasul decision validating the extension of habeas rights at 
Guantanamo, and there is not going to be if habeas is restored now.

Guantanamo detainees had habeas rights until those rights were 
conclusively taken away last year. Between 2002 and late 2006, these 
claims were handled by judges in the U.S. District Court in Washington, 
DC. The judges in that court released no detainees, and they issued no 
orders compelling the Government to alter the detainees' conditions of 
confinement. Habeas is a necessary and appropriate check on executive 
power, but it is a far cry from a get-out-of-jail-free card.

Opponents of habeas restoration suggest other countries will not open 
their courts to petitions from enemy aliens. But if a foreign country 
imprisoned an American, as I said before--say an aid worker or a nurse 
or a civilian contract employee--and held that person without any 
charge as a combatant, or simply said: We are going to ''determine'' 
whether that person is a combatant because he or she has supported the 
U.S. military, for example, or had a ''Support Our Troops'' sticker on 
their car, the U.S. Government would surely demand that American have a 
chance to go to court. Our consul would be down there immediately 
demanding that. What kind of a reaction would there be in this country 
if we read in the paper where another country said: No, you have no 
right to challenge the fact that we picked them up; you have no right 
to challenge even that we picked up the wrong person. When we screamed 
about that in editorials all over this country saying how horrible that 
is, they would simply answer: We are just doing what you do. By denying 
basic rights to alien detainees, we encourage other nations to do the 
same to American civilians, and they will. They will. That is why we 
hear from so many of our military, so many distinguished people that we 
should change this.

Critics of the Specter-Leahy bill also point to released detainees 
who they assert went back to the battlefield, as a reason not to 
restore habeas rights. But the truth is that those Guantanamo detainees 
who have been released since 9/11 have been freed by the military 
following its own process, not by Federal judges on habeas review.

The critics' assertions that habeas proceedings in Federal court will 
somehow lead to the sharing of classified information with terrorists 
is


cockamamie. It is merely fear-mongering. This argument demeans our 
Federal judiciary. It ignores the procedures established by Congress to 
ensure that classified information is safeguarded in Federal 
proceedings. Federal judges have significant discretion in determining 
what kinds of evidence to consider, what witnesses, if any, to allow 
for a habeas claim. Many detainee habeas claims could be resolved with 
no recourse to classified documents at all. Where classified evidence 
is relevant, all Federal judges are cleared to view such information, 
and they are well equipped to deal with it without compromising 
national security.

We must not succumb to baseless, fear-driven arguments. The sky will 
not fall if we vote to restore habeas. Quite the contrary: Congress 
will take a positive step toward returning to our core American values 
of liberty, due process, and checks and balances. In doing so, we will 
increase America's security and bolster our place in the world. That is 
why this amendment has support from across the political and 
ideological spectrum.

I thank Senator Dodd, Senator Menendez, Senator Bingaman, Senator 
Levin, and Senator Specter for coming to the floor and eloquently 
calling for a return to basic American values and the rule of law.

Yesterday, 41 Republicans voted to filibuster a bill that would have 
given to hundreds of thousands of residents of the District of Columbia 
the fundamental right to vote for Congress--the District of Columbia, 
which has roughly the same population as my own State of Vermont. I 
hope they will not follow that sad day with a filibuster today of 
legislation to restore the fundamental right of someone held by the 
Government without any charge to at least go to court and ask why.

The most daunting challenge in the age of terrorism is to strike the 
proper balance between maintaining our national security against very 
real threats but also preserving the liberties that are the proudest 
legacy of our Founders. It is our Founders who were willing to risk 
capture and hanging to bring about a nation based on the principles 
that you, Mr. President, and I have always supported and which we 
supported in our oath of office.

More than ever, especially in the wake of September 11, we have to 
remain vigilant against security threats, but let's never forget that 
our values are the foundation that makes our Nation strong. Now is the 
time to reaffirm those values, to be renewing this country's 
fundamental, longstanding commitment to habeas corpus review. I urge 
every Senator to support the Specter-Leahy amendment to restore habeas 
corpus.

Mr. President, I wish Members would look at those who support this. 
Support from this amendment goes across the political spectrum, from 
the American Conservative Union to liberal groups, to some of our 
leading citizens, including former Secretary of State Powell and others 
who have spoken out for this. We should pass this amendment.

Mr. President, how much time remains?