---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `73017ebaa7401c89722057a270d8c617`
`Mr. McKEON — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, Chairman Skelton and I agree that this 
amendment does more harm than good. This amendment sends the wrong 
signal at the wrong time for the government and people of Afghanistan, 
our military men and women deployed and deploying to Afghanistan, our 
NATO and non-NATO allies, and the enemy.

Focusing on an exit versus a strategy is irresponsible and fails to 
recognize that our efforts in Afghanistan are vital to preventing 
future terrorist attacks on the American people and our allies.

In March of 2009, the President rightly outlined a strategy for 
Afghanistan and Pakistan focused on disrupting, dismantling, and 
defeating al Qaeda and its affiliated networks and their safe havens.

While we debate this amendment, our military men and women are 
deploying to the Afghan theater as part of an additional 21,000 forces 
being sent to fight the insurgency in the south and train the Afghan 
National Security Forces.

Instead of focusing on an exit, as the amendment calls for, Congress 
needs to provide the funding and resources required to support the 
President's strategy and allow our military commanders to succeed.

As the commander of U.S. Central Command, General Petraeus has 
consistently stated it will take sustained, substantial resources to 
implement our counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan and give our 
troops and the government of Afghanistan the opportunity to succeed.

Lastly, the Department of Defense opposes the amendment, and I also 
oppose the amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.