---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `730319bfef7188b1f5dc89d74cd42dbc`
`Mr. CASEY — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I stand today in strong support of H.R. 
1591, the congressional supplemental bill. In casting our votes on this 
important measure, all of us must ask a fundamental question: Do we 
support a change in course in Iraq or do we want more of the same?

This supplemental bill delivers over $100 billion in necessary 
funding, an increase of $4 billion over the President's request for our 
military forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, fully meeting the President's 
request. More important, the bill establishes a change in course for 
our policy in Iraq by transitioning the mission of American troops away 
from involvement in a growing civil war to a more targeted mission, one 
focused on counterterrorism, training and equipping Iraqi forces, and 
force protection for American troops.

The supplemental bill that was voted on today offers a path away from 
the current quagmire in Iraq, a state of bloodshed and chaos which is 
straining the U.S. Army, diverting our attention from a resurgent al-
Qaida in Afghanistan and elsewhere, and finally sacrificing too many of 
our finest men and women.

We must never forget the enormous personal sacrifices our troops are 
asked to make every day. As of today, 162 Pennsylvanians and more than 
3,300 Americans as a whole have given their lives in Iraq, with tens of 
thousands more suffering lifelong injuries, including amputations, 
severe burns, and traumatic brain injuries. On Monday, nine members of 
the 82nd Airborne Division gave their lives when a suicide bomber 
infiltrated their outpost in Diyala Province, the deadliest single 
attack on U.S. forces in Iraq since December 2005.

We pray today for our fallen heroes--today and always--but we also 
pray for ourselves that we may be worthy of their valor.

Our troops have done all they can. They have deposed Saddam, and they 
fought insurgents and foreign terrorists. They spent the last 4 years 
partnering with their Iraqi counterparts in a courageous effort to 
establish the foundation for democracy and a free society. They have 
been asked to mediate disputes and protect innocent civilians as 
targets in a crossfire of a civil war.

So our troops have done their part. Now it is time for the Congress 
and the White House to do their part. As retired military generals, 
experienced diplomats, and scholars with intimate knowledge of Iraq 
have declared and as a bipartisan Iraq Study Group concluded just last 
winter, any success in Iraq requires a political and diplomatic 
solution and cannot be achieved through military might alone.

Just ask General Petraeus, who, upon assuming his new command in 
March, declared:




 There is no military solution to a problem like that in 


 Iraq, to the insurgency of Iraq . . . A political resolution 


 of various differences . . . will determine, in the long run, 


 the success of that effort.


GEN Barry McCaffrey recently returned from his latest trip to Iraq. 
One of our most widely respected former military officers, General 
McCaffrey fought in Vietnam with distinction, commanded a division in 
the gulf war in 1991, and led U.S. operations in Latin America. He 
submitted a formal report on his trip, which is very sober reading. One 
line stands out for me, and I quote from General McCaffrey's report:




 No Iraqi Government official, coalition soldier, diplomat, 


 reporter, foreign nongovernmental organization, nor 


 contractor can walk the streets of Baghdad, nor Mosul, nor 


 Kirkuk, nor Basra, nor Tikrit, nor Najaf, nor Ramadi, without 


 heavily armed protection.


This supplemental bill provides the Congress and the White House a 
chance to do their part to ensure success in our mission in Iraq. It 
brings to an end the ''stay the course'' mentality that defined our 
approach for the past 4 years in at least three ways.

First, the supplemental revises our mission in Iraq away from 
policing a civil war toward training and equipping Iraqi security 
forces, protecting U.S. forces, and conducting targeted counterterror 
operations.

Second, it initiates a phased redeployment of our troops no later 
than October 1 of this year, with a goal of removing all combat troops 
by April 1 of next year. These steps were called for in the bipartisan 
Iraq Study Group and represent the will of the American people. I am 
pleased that the Congress is finally following suit.

Third, the supplemental at least holds the Iraqi Government 
accountable by setting measurable and achievable benchmarks on the 
Iraqi Government for ending the sectarian conflict, political 
reconciliation, and improving the lives of ordinary Iraqis.

If the Iraqi Government refuses to meet these benchmarks, they will 
put at risk future U.S. assistance and the continued presence of U.S. 
troops. We have repeatedly seen past benchmarks established by the Bush 
administration and the Iraqi Government come and go without progress 
and without consequence. Just this week, a revealing article in USA 
Today highlighted the growing lack of confidence among Iraqi 
Parliamentarians in the al-Maliki government, and one legislator was 
quoted as saying:




 This government hasn't delivered and is not capable of 


 doing the job.


This bill, once and for all, establishes a series of accountable 
benchmarks.

Finally, the supplemental recognizes the toll this war has taken on 
our uniformed military, especially the Army and Marine Corps. It 
establishes a set of troop-readiness standards that establish minimum 
levels between deployments for our troops and limits the duration of 
those deployments.

The legislation includes a Presidential waiver authority, but it 
would require the President to certify that the continued strain on our 
military forces is in our national interest. These provisions will 
force the President to think long and hard about the impact of the Iraq 
war on the readiness of our military to handle other pressing 
challenges, including the need to fight and kill al-Qaida terrorists 
wherever we find them.

The congressional debate that has helped produce this supplemental 
bill has been attacked by the President and his supporters. However, 
our Secretary of Defense last week described our debate as helpful in 
''communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended 
commitment.''

Two of my distinguished colleagues, on a recent visit to Baghdad, 
explicitly


informed Iraqi leaders that growing congressional pressure on the need 
for a phased redeployment signified that it was time for the Iraqi 
Government to get serious and start taking the hard steps needed for 
political reconciliation, including a fair distribution of oil 
revenues. Without the steps this Congress has taken, without the 
pressure it has applied, the Maliki regime would continue to be 
receiving an open-ended blank check from the White House, with our 
soldiers paying the ultimate price.

The President has regrettably chosen to distort and malign our 
intentions in sending him the bill that is before us today. I wish to 
take a few minutes to briefly address those charges and demonstrate why 
it is the President--the President--and not the Congress who has 
cynically held hostage the funding and well-being of our troops.

First, the President has repeatedly charged that our military forces 
needed the supplemental funding immediately and any delay to pass the 
supplemental in his exact specifications would harm their readiness. A 
number of my colleagues already cited authoritative research from the 
Congressional Research Service that demonstrates that the needed 
funding is available to the U.S. Army from mid to late July--let me say 
that again, mid to late July--without jeopardizing the war effort. 
However, there is a much larger cynicism at play here. There would be 
no need for a supplemental bill at all if this President had submitted 
an honest, regular budget request for this fiscal year.

Four years into the war, this administration should be able to tell 
the American people how much the war in Iraq cost. Yet the 
administration has refused to incorporate wartime costs into his 
regular budget request, instead seeking to finance our operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan through a series of supplemental bills. Of course, 
the President doesn't want to do that because regular appropriations 
requests are subject to greater public and congressional scrutiny.

Financing the war through supplemental bills also allows the 
President to better hide the impact of the war on our Federal budget. 
It is not surprising that a President who has run up the largest 
deficits in modern history would want to hide that fact. Doing so on 
the backs of our troops is outrageous.

So the President is plain wrong when he attacks the Congress on 
supplemental funding for our troops in Iraq. The reality is that we 
have exceeded the President's request and on a timetable which is 
quicker than that of the previous Congress controlled by the 
President's party.

If the President chooses to veto this bill, it is he--it is he--who 
is prolonging this process and denying necessary funds to our young men 
and women in uniform. If the President had been honest with the 
Congress and the American people on the true cost of this war from the 
very beginning, we would not have needed this supplemental bill.


The second claim the President has made over and over again in recent 
weeks is that this supplemental bill is larded up with porkbarrel 
spending that is unrelated to our military operation in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Yet, once again, the President is distorting both his own 
actions and those of Congress for crude political gain. We should not 
forget that the President's original request for supplemental funding 
also included funds not related to the war in Afghanistan and in Iraq. 
The President's request included money for debt relief in Kosovo, 
cultural exchanges, and assistance to refugees in Burundi. The 
President keeps calling for a clean bill, yet his own request to the 
Congress included extra items with no connection to Iraq or 
Afghanistan. In light of the President's request, the Congress, acting 
as an independent and equal branch of Government, engaged in its own 
deliberations and determined other emergency priorities that required 
funding through this supplemental bill.

This President seems to think that the Congress exists merely to 
follow his orders and that it should not exercise any independent 
judgment. This may have been the case with our predecessors but not 
with this Congress and not with this Senator. We were elected by the 
people of our States, and we report to them, not the President and not 
the Vice President. So the Congress acted to ensure additional funding 
for a number of key priorities.

The President has broadly tarred these projects as ''egregious 
porkbarrel.'' Does the President believe that label applies to the $1.2 
billion in funds for accelerated production of mine-resistent vehicles 
so our soldiers have a better chance of surviving IED attacks? Does he 
believe that label applies to $2.1 billion to better provide health 
care for our veterans? Does he believe that $650 million to help with 
the children's health insurance shortfall in 14 States is frivolous 
spending? I could also talk about the funding for victims of Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita and our farmers and on and on.

This supplemental bill, agreed upon by the House and the Senate, is a 
responsible effort that guarantees the funds our troops need, provides 
funding for other critical emergency priorities, and sets a badly 
needed change in course in Iraq.

In conclusion, our policy in Iraq is not working, and it must change 
if we are to salvage our mission and seek to leave behind a functioning 
government in Baghdad that can defend its national borders and contain 
internal violence. It is time to recognize the reality of Iraq as it is 
today, get our mission right, and allow our troops to begin coming home 
with the honor they deserve.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.