# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `730c23751715b0efe46c3974acd4370a`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 6 May 2008`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, 2 weeks ago, I came to the Senate floor 
to express my concern that Congress had yet to act on the President's 
fiscal year 2008 request for supplemental funding to support our troops 
and our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. At that time, I also expressed 
my displeasure with the majority's intention to bypass the 
Appropriations Committee in writing the supplemental appropriations 
bill.

Two weeks later, little appears to have changed. Little has changed, 
except that we are 2 weeks deeper into the fiscal year, and we are 2 
weeks closer to the date when accounts that support our Armed Forces 
and our diplomatic corps begin to run dry.

The majority leader is apparently sanguine about the status of the 
supplemental because last Thursday, he said:




 I think we'll do our best to finish this before the 


 Memorial Day break, but if we don't, it's no big deal. 


 There's money there.


The leader then went on to say:




 I don't know why there is a rush to judgment. This is 


 moving along quite rapidly. We're not behind schedule. 


 Everything's fine.


Exactly what is ''moving along quite rapidly''? No markup of the 
supplemental has been officially scheduled in either the House or the 
Senate. There are continued reports of imminent action in the other 
body, but no bill has been introduced. No bill or report has been 
circulated to Senate committee members in anticipation of a markup. 
There is nothing for Members to look at, nothing for Members to 
consider or to draft amendments to.

A week ago, Republican members of the Appropriations Committee in the 
Senate wrote to Chairman Byrd to express our concern about the 
committee being bypassed entirely. I am pleased that the chairman 
concurred in the sentiments expressed in that letter and has stated his 
intention to hold a committee markup this week. I am certain that has 
been his preference all along.

In my memory, I cannot think of any instance where the committee did 
not mark up a supplemental such as this. I think the chairman has been 
fighting valiantly to maintain some semblance of regular order, but it 
is apparent he is meeting resistance from the joint leadership.

That is a shame. We should take advantage of the collective expertise 
and experience of the members of the Appropriations Committee and bring 
that knowledge to bear on the supplemental.

I am sorry to say it remains uncertain whether a markup will take 
place, and if a markup does occur, it remains uncertain whether the 
committee's work product will be considered by the full Senate.

In the House, it appears the committee will be bypassed altogether. 
Yet even with that step being skipped, there is still no definite 
schedule for House floor action. There apparently have been discussions 
by House and Senate staff in an effort to sort of ''precook'' 
agreements on the various chapters of the bill, but there has been 
little substantive involvement by the minority in those discussions. 
Very few Members have been involved at all, to my knowledge.

The fact is the Appropriations Committee could have marked up the 
supplemental several weeks ago, and the Senate likely could have passed 
the bill by now. We should be in conference with the House already and 
be well on our way to negotiating a conference report to be sent to the 
President. But instead, we wait. We wait for more closed-door meetings 
between and among the Democratic leaders. We wait for more rumors about 
what extraneous legislative matter is or is not part of the draft being 
compiled by the majority. And all but a handful of Members wait for an 
opportunity to shape the bill.

I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture and was appointed as a 
conferee on the farm bill. That conference has met at least seven times 
in recent weeks. There have been countless additional meetings among 
committee principals. It has been a grueling effort, it has been messy, 
and it remains uncertain whether the President will ultimately sign the 
conference report once it is presented to him. But we can be fairly 
confident that the conference report will at least reflect the 
collective will of Congress and it will be the process of a reasonably 
transparent process.


At this point, I cannot say that about the supplemental. Eventually, 
we will approve and the President will sign a supplemental bill. I am 
confident that ultimately we will not allow our Armed Forces and our 
diplomatic corps to go wanting for resources. My concern is that the 
majority's approach to the supplemental places political tactics and 
strategy ahead of the need for inclusive, timely, and transparent 
action.

Contrary to the majority leader's assertion, it is a big deal if we 
do not get this bill done by Memorial Day. It is a big deal, not 
because the U.S. Army will run out of ammunition on June 1 but because 
our inaction will represent an unnecessary and completely avoidable 
process failure on the part of the Congress. It will say to our Armed 
Forces that we are willing to draw out this process as long as 
possible, even though we know the likely outcome. We are willing to 
force the Department of Defense to issue advance furlough notices, 
delay contract awards, and make inefficient funding transfers in order 
to keep the money flowing--all because congressional leaders spent 
these last several weeks devising artful parliamentary schemes rather 
than simply advancing the bill through the committees, onto the House 
floor, onto the Senate floor, and into conference.

The April 28 edition of Roll Call included an article by Don 
Wolfensberger titled ''Have House-Senate Conferences Gone the Way of 
the Dodo?'' I commend that article to my colleagues and ask unanimous 
consent to have a copy printed in the Record at the conclusion of my 
remarks.