---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `731045173d0c27a7e9c6eff90425fca3`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I want to thank Chairman Chet Edwards and Ranking Member 
Zach Wamp for their incredible leadership on this legislation. And I'd 
like to take a moment, Mr. Chairman, to particularly say what an honor 
it is to serve under Chairman Edwards. And his particular leadership is 
due a great deal of appreciation, especially for what he does to 
champion the cause of veterans in this country. And I want to say what 
an honor it is to serve under his leadership in this committee.

I want to say, as Mr. Wamp did, that it is an honor, for those of us 
who never served in uniform, to be here and serving in a different 
uniform, in coat and tie, to be there to serve those who did go out 
there and put their lives on the line to serve our country, in a sense 
that we owe it to them and can have an opportunity to serve those 
veterans who have served our country so proudly. I take great pride in 
that.

I feel that this is an historic place in the Congress of the United 
States. I mean, this floor of the House is where Franklin Roosevelt 
announced that we would be declaring war, World War II. And we all read 
about the history of this country, when the country came together to 
fight wars on two sides of the world. And we read about those times in 
American history when all of America was joined together and 
sacrificing.

And the only difference between those times and now is that there 
seems to be a battle that's being fought by our men and women in 
uniform, but the sacrifice seems to be borne principally by those who 
are wearing the uniform, but not by the rest of America. It seems as 
though there is a bubble going on here where the rest of America is 
supposed to go on with their lives and the military is supposed to do 
the job, and yet the two should never meet. And I don't think that's 
the way America is supposed to work. I think, as a country, we're 
supposed to be there every step of the way with our troops.

And what I think this bill does is it begins to acknowledge that the 
rest of America needs to step up to the plate and make sure when our 
troops come home, that we know that they aren't forgotten, and that 
we're going to remember them long after they've come home and make sure 
that they get the homecoming that they deserve.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in enthusiastic support of the Military 
Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriation Bill. It has been my great 
privileged to serve under the leadership of Chairman Chet Edwards and 
Ranking Member Zack Wamp as we have worked in a bipartisan way to 
support our military and honor America's commitment to our veterans.

I would like to take a moment, Mr. Chairman to honor the great 
service of the Chairman of the Military Construction Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations Subcommittee, Chet Edwards. There is no better champion 
for the veterans of our country and no better advocate for the needs of 
our service members than Chet Edwards. I applaud the Chairman for his 
earnest stewardship of our subcommittee.

Mr. Chairman, over the past year, I had the opportunity to travel the 
country to see with my own eyes the capabilities of our VA Hospitals, 
Medical Centers, Polytrauma Centers and Inpatient facilities and get a 
better perspective of the needs of patients, doctors, nurses, and 
hospital administrators. I met with many of our brave veterans who have 
made those enormous sacrifices for our nation. Needless to say, I was 
inspired by the courage of our wounded warriors.

The high degree of professionalism with which the Hospital staff 
conducted patient care was quite impressive and I have great confidence 
in the doctors and nurses who are doing their part in taking care of 
America's veterans.

Unfortunately, many of these great public servants are performing 
their jobs in antiquated facilities with substandard staffing 
requirements that make life difficult for doctors, but more 
importantly, diminish care for patients!

It was crystal clear to me that our VA Facilities need to do more to 
adapt to a new generation of American veterans who have come home from 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Specifically, the needs of our female veterans 
need immediate attention.

During my visit, I observed that our Veterans' Hospitals, many of 
which were built in the 1950s and 60s, were not built to accommodate 
the large number of female vets expected to enter the system. They lack 
the most rudimentary amenities like adequate female restrooms and 
hospital rooms to meet privacy needs.

Sadly, the VA is always playing a big game of ''catchup'' with 
respect to female vets. Instead of implementing a long term strategy 
designed to meet the needs of these service members, the VA would 
rather wait for another Walter Reed before changing the status-quo.

In mental health services, I was alarmed by the lack of full-time 
mental health professional at VA Hospitals.

For example, my visit to the Hines VA in Chicago last fall revealed 
that all of its psychiatrists were part-time employees. Frankly, I find 
that unacceptable.



In this subcommittee, we have taken steps to bolster funding for 
mental health services in the VA and built upon our great success in 
last year's MILCON/VA appropriations bill which saw the greatest 
increase in veterans health funding in the 77-year history of the VA.

We have also dedicated $24.8 billion for Military Construction to 
fully fund BRAC and increase the size of the Army and Marine Corps.

In Military Construction, this bill also includes:

--$336 million, which was not in the President's request, will go 
towards quality of life initiatives.

--$200 million for the Army and Marine Corps to improve their 
barracks so that our service members have decent places to call home.

The Veterans Health Administration estimates that in 2009 more than 
5.8 million patients, including 333,275 veterans of the Iraq and 
Afghanistan wars. This is why we have funded the VHA at $40.8 billion, 
$1.6 billion over the request of President Bush and a 9 percent 
increase over 2008 levels.

According to a study by the Rand Corporation, more than 1 in 5 
service men and women coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from 
a stress related mental illness. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is the 
signature wound of this war and I applaud my colleagues on this 
subcommittee for recognizing the seriousness of this issue and for 
their willingness to devote significant funding towards mental health 
care and research.

$3.8 billion in this bill is dedicated to specialty mental health 
services and $584 million to substance abuse programs in this bill.

In a time of great need for our veterans, this subcommittee came 
together to write a bipartisan bill. We solicited views from the other 
side of the aisle to put together a responsible, non-partisan bill that 
has only one objective: to most effectively meet the needs of our 
veterans and military families.

This is why I was appalled yesterday when I heard that President Bush 
announced that he would veto this legislation. The administration says 
we must spare no expense for our soldiers and Marines in the field, but 
when those servicemembers come home, this same President tells them 
that $3 billion for health care, family housing and medical research is 
too much.

To shortchange our veterans and military families, in a time of war, 
is morally wrong. We have no right to put fiscal responsibility on the 
backs of our Nation's veterans.

I would hope that we can quickly pass the Military Construction 
Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill so that the veterans I met across 
America can rest assured knowing the help is on the way.

