---
---

# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `73127edc09b2ca06d57c757a45d01a16`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. That is a perfect segue for what I wanted to get into 
right now, and we are going to, I think, conclude on this topic because 
this is certainly the most important issue facing the country today is 
the war in Iraq. I think anybody would agree. What this House did today 
is, as the gentleman from Florida talked about, try to get a handle on 
this situation and try to put a plan in place where none exists today 
on what our mission is going to be in Iraq.

I was going to talk a little bit about what we did today in the 
House, what the bill said, and I will turn it over to Ms. Wasserman 
Schultz to go into a little bit more detail. H.R. 4156 requires the 
redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq to begin within 30 days of 
enactment with a target for completion of December 15, 2008. It 
requires transition in the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq from 
primarily combat to force protection and diplomatic protection, limited 
support to Iraqi security forces and targeted counterterrorism 
operations.

The bill prohibits deployment of any U.S. troops not fully equipped 
and trained. Is there anybody who can disagree with that? Waivable with 
a presidential national security certification. So it gives the 
President the ability to waive that requirement if he feels it is 
necessary. It extends to all U.S. Government agencies and personnel the 
limitations of the Army Field Manual on permissible interrogation 
techniques. That means no torture, something that this House has voted 
on in the past. It is in the Army manual today. It just says you have 
to abide by what is in the Army Field Manual as it is currently 
written. And finally, as we discussed, it provides $50 billion to meet 
the needs of the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan but defers the 
consideration of the remainder of the President's nearly $200 billion 
request.

So this is a responsible course of action. The House passed it today.

I will yield to the gentlewoman from Florida at this point to give 
her views on this issue.