# None
## `7314b5780eaed53139f6a2e36eed103b`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Exactly. Budgets are priorities. They are 
blueprints for what you stand for and what you believe. And the 
Democrats and the Democratic budget is something that I think really is 
going to invigorate the country. It is not going as far as a lot of us 
want it to go, but the fact of the matter is we are left holding the 
bag of a Republican-led Congress and President that added almost $3 
trillion in debt to this country, and we have got to deal with that. 
That is the stark reality of the budget situation.

But, again, I would like to say this. This President has threatened 
to veto the supplemental bill that adds an additional $1.7 billion for 
veterans, an additional $1.7 billion for defense health care, $500 
million for post-traumatic stress, $500 million for brain injuries. 
That is what the President is going to veto when he says he is going to 
veto the supplemental.

The American people are way ahead of us on this war, and the national 
intelligence estimate said that the war in Iraq has created more 
terrorists and has made the terrorist situation worse, Mr. Meek. This 
war has created more enemies for us, has created more terrorists that 
are gunning for the United States. So to say that by coming home that 
that somehow is going to make us less safe is inaccurate and 
inconsistent with the national intelligence estimate and the basic 
common sense of most Americans.

So as we move forward in a new direction in Iraq and the budget 
blueprint that we have that is going to move the country in a new 
direction domestically, without raising taxes, as the Concord Coalition 
said, the Democratic budget is not raising taxes. And the Center on 
Budget and Policy is saying the Democratic budget is not raising taxes. 
I will say, and another third-party validator, the Brookings Institute, 
says the Democrats are not raising taxes in their new budget.

I want to repeat this. I am asking, Mr. Speaker, for the Members of 
this House who know the facts, who will vote on this bill, they know we 
are not raising taxes, and that is why we are going to get broad 
support on it.

But for the American people to compare this year's tax returns that 
they get, reserve judgment on the Democratic tax policy, compare this 
year's to next year's, and you will see that your tax rates are the 
exact same, the exact same. And you will have one more piece of 
evidence to put in the column of we will be greeted as liberators, the 
same thing, the same column as we are in the last throes, the same 
column as mission accomplished. You will be able to put the Democratic 
budget and the Democratic tax policy in that same list.