---
---

# None
## `7319285c17fe20424e56c7d617f9efdb`
`Mr. PENCE — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I rise in opposition to the rule and the bill.

The tide is turning in Iraq, Mr. Speaker, but nothing changes on 
Capitol Hill. Here we go again. Another Democrat plan for redeployment 
from Iraq, tying some $50 billion in necessary combat funds to a 
Democrat plan for withdrawal.

With unambiguous evidence of progress on the ground in Iraq, the 
Democrats in Congress seem to have added denial to their agenda of 
retreat and defeat. And the evidence of our progress is unambiguous.

I have seen many different Iraqs in my five trips, some hopeful, some 
not hopeful. But the news coming out of Iraq just in recent days from 
independent and official sources is encouraging.

U.S. military fatalities are down sharply: 101 Americans lost their 
lives in uniform in June; 39 in October. Iraqi civilian deaths are down 
sharply: 1,791 casualties in August; 750 in October. Mortar rocket 
attacks by insurgents in October were the lowest since February 2006. 
Iraqi officials say they plan to reduce checkpoints, ease curfews, and


open some roads around Baghdad because of the improving security 
situation. And this weekend, the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-
Maliki said that sectarian violence between Shia and Sunni in the 
neighborhoods of Baghdad has declined by more than 75 percent in the 
last 12 months. And yet here we are again, another plan for retreat and 
defeat in Iraq.

And it is not just the official sources that say we have made 
progress. The Associated Press just reported, ''Twilight brings traffic 
jams to the main shopping district of this once affluent corner of 
Baghdad, and hundreds of people stroll past well-stocked vegetable 
stands, bakeries, and butcher shops.''

The Washington Post recently wrote, ''The number of attacks against 
U.S. soldiers has fallen to levels not seen since before the February 
2006 bombing of a Shia shrine in Samarra that touched off waves of 
sectarian killing.''

And the New York Times noted just last week, '' 'American forces have 
routed al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the Iraqi militant network from every 
neighborhood in Baghdad,' a top general reported today, 'allowing 
American troops involved in the surge to depart as planned.' ''

I urge my colleagues to reject again this Democrat plan for 
withdrawal as a part of the supplemental appropriations bill, but I 
urge my countrymen to give our soldiers a chance. Freedom and stability 
are beginning to take hold in Iraq. We cannot lose faith in ourselves 
or in our fighting men and women.

It would be Winston Churchill who exhorted his own people as follows: 
''Nothing can save England if she will not save herself. If we lose 
faith in ourselves, in our capacity to guide and govern, if we lose our 
will to live, then indeed our story is told. If, while on all sides 
foreign nations are every day asserting a more aggressive and militant 
nationalism by arms and trade, we remain paralyzed by our own 
theoretical doctrines or plunged into the stupor of after-war 
exhaustion, then indeed all the croakers predict will come true and our 
ruin will be swift and final.'' So said the man who saved western 
civilization.

To my countrymen and to my colleagues, I say again: Reject this 
legislation, give our soldiers in a widening and undeniable success in 
Iraq a chance, and we will all, Republicans and Democrats, celebrate 
some day a free and democratic Iraq that will be a legacy for our 
children and our grandchildren for generations to come.