---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `7319e4123810705f1083bef1bf86958b`
`Mr. FILNER — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. I thank the gentlelady, and I thank the leadership of Ms. 
Woolsey and Ms. Lee of the Progressive Caucus.

Madam Chair, I rise this morning as the Chair of the House Veterans' 
Affairs Committee in proud support of the Progressive Caucus budget.

Other budgets fund the war; this budget funds the warrior. I am going 
to repeat that: Other budgets fund the war; this budget funds the 
warrior.

Most of us in the Progressive Caucus are against the war in Iraq, but 
we are united in our view that when these young men and women come home 
and all the other young men and women who came home in the past, that 
they get all the care, the support, the honor, the dignity, the love 
that a grateful Nation can bestow.

We are united in saying we will honor those who come home. They have 
done everything we have asked, they have been brave and courageous, 
they have had incredible wounds both physically and mentally, and we 
are going to give them the care, love, respect, and honor that they 
deserve.

This is the only budget before us today that says we will have what 
is called ''mandatory funding'' of veterans health care. Mandatory 
funding means we don't have to wait 5 months like the Republicans did 
last year when they didn't fund the Veterans Administration for the 
first 5 months of the fiscal year. Assured funding, mandatory funding, 
means that they will be funded on the first day of the fiscal year, and 
they will get automatic funding that doesn't have to go through a 
political fight.

We have a President that says support the troops, support the troops, 
support the troops. The speakers on the other side say support the 
troops, support the troops, support the troops. But when they get home, 
who is supporting them? Who is supporting these brave young men and 
women when they come back? We saw what happened at Walter Reed. We saw 
what happened to Bob Woodruff when he had traumatic brain injury--and 
those who were less fortunate than he didn't get the treatment they 
needed. We heard about the young marine who went to a Minnesota 
hospital saying he had PTSD and was thinking about committing suicide, 
and they said he was number 28 on the waiting list, come back in a 
month. He went home and he committed suicide. That is not a Veterans 
Administration, that is not a country that is welcoming its troops 
home. It is time that we fund the warrior and not just the war. Vote 
for the Progressive Caucus budget.