---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `732db384551015d077d5a7c88558ad4d`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, today I voted against the 2007 
Supplemental War Funding Bill. I opposed the bill not for what it 
contained--but for what it lacked. The bill lacked strong 
accountability measures for the Iraqi government and omitted readiness 
standards to ensure that deployed troops are fully prepared and 
equipped for duty. While this bill represents an important step forward 
from where we were before the election, it does not go far enough. In 
the last election, the American public made clear that they wanted a 
change of direction in this war. This is not change enough.

On May 1, 2003, the day the President declared an end of hostilities 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, there were 142,000 American soldiers in Iraq. 
Today there are 155,000. On that day there had been 138 American 
casualties and 542 wounded in Iraq. Today the number of casualties is 
3,476 and the number of wounded is 25,225. The Iraqi people have also 
suffered. The estimated number of Iraqi civilians killed by violence 
since May 2003 is between 53,000 and 63,000. The bill voted on today 
does little to reverse this course.

The Congress sent the President a bill that would have begun the 
process of changing worsening conditions in this war by holding the 
Iraqis accountable for taking the steps necessary to achieve political 
reconciliation and greater stability. The bill also provided additional 
funding to go after Osama bin Laden, the Taliban and al Qaeda. By 
vetoing that bill, the President missed an opportunity to change 
direction in Iraq and complete the job in Afghanistan.

By vetoing that bill, the President said ''no'' to ensuring that our 
troops had the training and equipment they need. By vetoing that bill 
he said ''no'' to ensuring that we hold the Iraqi Government 
accountable to the benchmarks which the Bush administration and the 
Iraqi Government have said are absolutely necessary to achieve 
political stability in Iraq.

We voted to give our troops every penny the President asked for and 
more. We also insisted on accountability to protect our troops. The 
President wanted the money without adequate accountability. Our troops 
deserve better and so do the American people.