# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `7330f41472a381951649c2395ef6f704`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 7 May 2009`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the next Director of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy, ONDCP, has a tough job ahead of him.

The new drug czar will have to work hard to stem the rise in 
prescription and over-the-counter medicine abuse and the drug cartel 
violence crossing our southern borders, as well as the issues we have 
been combating for many years: traditional drug abuse.

The U.S. has a major drug problem. While we are leveraging law 
enforcement resources for interdiction and drug crime reduction, we 
also face an active movement to legalize dangerous drugs. I have long 
been an opponent of the legalizing cause, as I hear all the time how 
dangerous drugs are to our youth and families.

The new ONDCP Director must emphasize and invigorate the law 
enforcement community's efforts to stop illegal drug use. He must be a 
strong leader for all agencies and organizations that are stakeholders 
in the fight against illegal drugs. He must bring a respect to the 
office of ONDCP that has been lacking for some time. It is vital that 
the new Director is able to coordinate domestic and international drug 
strategy, including ensuring that the Merida Initiative is a success. 
The next


Director must also be able to bring together and work with coalitions 
at the local level to combat meth, coordinate policy on the laws 
directed to eradicate meth and marijuana production, and be engaged in 
efforts to stop opium production in Afghanistan and Colombia. His drug 
strategy must produce results at the national and international level 
to address drug manufacturing, interdiction, prevention, and abuse.

I have some concerns about Chief Kerlikowske's nomination, given his 
record.

For instance, in 2003, Seattle voters passed Initiative 75, which 
made marijuana possession the lowest priority for the Seattle Police 
Department. During the debate, Chief Kerlikowske opposed the measure 
only because he disagreed with voters determining what laws a police 
force should enforce. In answers to my written questions, he merely 
noted marijuana was already low on the force's list. Chief 
Kerlikowske's lax record on marijuana enforcement concerns me because 
marijuana is still often the precursor to more dangerous drugs, and it 
only endangers those who use it. The next ONDCP Director must be a 
strong opponent of marijuana and all illegal drugs, as well as act as 
an aggressive enforcer of the laws regulating these harmful narcotics.

Additionally, Chief Kerlikowske apparently has no experience on 
international supply interdiction. We need someone who understands 
international drug problems and can help formulate a successful long-
term strategy to address them. Chief Kerlikowske's lack of this 
experience, along with his lax record on marijuana crimes, raise 
questions for me on his ability to act as an effective Director of 
ONDCP. However, several organizations, such as the Major Cities Chief 
Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse 
Directors, and the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, have 
expressed support for this nominee. While I will not hold up his 
nomination, I put Chief Kerlikowske on notice that I expect him to 
provide strong leadership in producing and coordinating drug control 
strategy and to aggressively work to enforce our drug laws.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.