---
---

# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `734435988e88bac2675ded5afe5872cc`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I want to introduce into the Record a Gallup poll that 
revealed that 59 percent of Pakistanis


view the U.S. as their biggest threat, and that 67 percent of 
Pakistanis polled were opposed to military operations in their country. 
Now, Mr. Speaker, if putting our troops inside the borders of 
Afghanistan, if we're not putting them in a hostile environment, with 
those poll results, I don't know what would be hostile.











[From Al Jazeera, Aug. 13, 2009]










Pakistanis See US as Biggest Threat















 (By Owen Fay)




 A survey commissioned by Al Jazeera in Pakistan has 


 revealed a widespread disenchantment with the United States 


 for interfering with what most people consider internal 


 Pakistani affairs.



 The polling was conducted by Gallup Pakistan, an affiliate 


 of the Gallup International polling group, and more than 


 2,600 people took part.



 Interviews were conducted across the political spectrum in 


 all four of the country's provinces, and represented men and 


 women of every economic and ethnic background.



 When respondents were asked what they consider to be the 


 biggest threat to the nation of Pakistan, 11 per cent of the 


 population identified the Taliban fighters, who have been 


 blamed for scores of deadly bomb attacks across the country 


 in recent years.



 Another 18 per cent said that they believe that the 


 greatest threat came from neighbouring India, which has 


 fought three wars with Pakistan since partition in 1947.



 But an overwhelming number, 59 per cent of respondents, 


 said the greatest threat to Pakistan right now is, in fact, 


 the US, a donor of considerable amounts of military and 


 development aid.















Tackling the Taliban




 The resentment was made clearer when residents were asked 


 about the Pakistan's military efforts to tackle the Taliban.



 Keeping with recent trends a growing number of people, now 


 41 per cent, supported the campaign.



 About 24 per cent of people remained opposed, while another 


 22 per cent of Pakistanis remained neutral on the question.



 A recent offensive against Taliban fighters in the Swat, 


 Lower Dir and Buner districts of North West Frontier Province 


 killed at least 1,400 fighters, according to the military, 


 but also devastated the area and forced two million to leave 


 their homes.



 The military has declared the operation a success, however, 


 some analysts have suggested that many Taliban fighters 


 simply slipped away to other areas, surviving to fight 


 another day.



 When people were asked if they would support government-


 sanctioned dialogue with Taliban fighters if it were a viable 


 option the numbers change significantly.



 Although the same 41 per cent said they would still support 


 the military offensive, the number of those supporting 


 dialogue leaps up to 43 per cent.



 So clearly, Pakistanis are, right now, fairly evenly split 


 on how to deal with the Taliban threat.

















Drone anger




 However, when asked if they support or oppose the US 


 military's drone attacks against what Washington claims are 


 Taliban and al-Qaeda targets, only nine per cent of 


 respondents reacted favourably.



 A massive 67 per cent say they oppose US military 


 operations on Pakistani soil.



 ''This is a fact that the hatred against the US is growing 


 very quickly, mainly because of these drone attacks,'' 


 Makhdoom Babar, the editor-in-chief of Pakistan's The Daily 


 Mail newspaper, said.



 ''Maybe the intelligence channels, the military channels 


 consider it productive, but for the general public it is 


 controversial . . . the drone attacks are causing collateral 


 damage,'' he told Al Jazeera.



 A senior US official told Al Jazeera he was not surprised 


 by the poll's findings.



 The US has a considerable amount of work to do to make 


 itself better understood to the Muslim world, he said.



 And it would take not only educational and economic work to 


 win over the Pakistani people but also a concerted effort to 


 help the Pakistani government deal with ''extremist 


 elements'' that are trying to disrupt security within 


 Pakistan, he added.



 Nearly 500 people, mostly suspected Taliban and al-Qaeda 


 fighters, are believed to have been killed in about 50 US 


 drone attacks since August last year, according to 


 intelligence agents, local government officials and 


 witnesses.



 Washington refuses to confirm the raids, but the US 


 military in neighbouring Afghanistan and the Central 


 Intelligence Agency (CIA) are the only forces operating in 


 the area that are known to have the technology.



 The government in Islamabad formally opposes the attacks 


 saying that they violate Pakistani sovereignty and cause 


 civilian casualties which turn public opinion against efforts 


 to battle the Taliban.



 Lieutenant-General Hamid Nawaz Khan, a former caretaker 


 interior minister of Pakistan, told Al Jazeera that US 


 pressure on Pakistan to take on the Taliban was one reason 


 for the backlash.



 ''Americans have forced us to fight this 'war on terror'. . 


 . whatever Americans wanted they have been able to get 


 because this government was too weak to resist any of the 


 American vultures and they have been actually committing 


 themselves on the side of America much more than what even 


 [former president] Pervez Musharraf did,'' he said.















Pakistani leadership




 The consensus of opinion in opposition to US military 


 involvement in Pakistan is notable given the fact that on a 


 raft of internal issues there is a clear level of 


 disagreement, something which would be expected in a country 


 of this size.



 When asked for their opinions on Asif Ali Zardari, the 


 current Pakistani president, 42 per cent of respondents said 


 they believed he was doing a bad job. Around 11 per cent 


 approved of his leadership, and another 34 per cent had no 


 strong opinion either way.



 That pattern was reflected in a question about Zardari's 


 Pakistan People's party (PPP).



 Respondents were asked if they thought the PPP was good or 


 bad for the country.



 About 38 per cent said the PPP was bad for the country, 20 


 per cent believed it was good for the country and another 30 


 per cent said they had no strong opinion.



 Respondents were even more fractured when asked for their 


 views on how the country should be led.



 By far, the largest percentage would opt for Nawaz Sharif, 


 a former prime minister and leader of the Pakistan Muslim 


 League-N (PML-N) party, as leader. At least 38 per cent 


 backed him to run Pakistan.



 Last month, the Pakistani supreme court quashed Sharif's 


 conviction on charges of hijacking, opening the way for him 


 to run for political office again.















Zardari 'unpopular'




 Zardari, the widower of assassinated former prime minister 


 Benazir Bhutto, received only nine per cent support, while 


 Reza Gilani, Pakistan's prime minister, had the backing of 13 


 per cent.



 But from there, opinions vary greatly. Eight per cent of 


 the population would support a military government, 11 per 


 cent back a political coalition of the PPP and the PML-N 


 party.



 Another six per cent would throw their support behind 


 religious parties and the remaining 15 per cent would either 


 back smaller groups or simply do not have an opinion.



 Babar told Al Jazeera that Zardari's unpopularity was 


 understandable given the challenges that the country had 


 faced since the September 11, 2001 attacks on the US.



 ''Any president in Pakistan would be having the same 


 popularity that President Zardari is having, because under 


 this situation the president of Pakistan has to take a lot of 


 unpopular decisions,'' he said.



 ''He is in no position to not take unpopular decisions that 


 are actually in the wider interests of the country, but for 


 common people these are very unpopular decisions.''


I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Paul), who is the 
cosponsor of this resolution. I want to express to him my gratitude for 
his patriotism.

(Mr. PAUL asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)