# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `734e3f721c08a94a9f8de8a32b0c6bf4`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to oppose all 
amendments to this legislation, especially those dealing with our 
operations in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues, how quickly we forget. As Mr. Lewis 
mentioned, as did Mr. Pence, with historic


speed, the Senate this week unanimously confirmed our new NATO 
commander in Afghanistan. During his brief confirmation hearing, 
General David Petraeus urged this Congress to approve the War Funding 
Bill in an expedited way. Yet this evening, this process guarantees 
that no funding will be signed into law before mid-July. And if that's 
not bad enough, we find ourselves here on the floor debating not one, 
but three amendments that have the effect of defunding our Afghanistan 
operations, basically tying the hands of our Commander in Chief and 
micromanaging the military at a time when they need to do their job and 
to be successful.

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, we are a nation at war. We have 
soldiers and Marines deployed halfway around the world. Many of them 
are in combat at this very hour facing a dangerous enemy. And yet we 
find ourselves here tonight questioning the very mission we've asked 
our troops to execute. What message does that send to them if they're 
watching us? What message does it say to our allies, some of whom may 
question it in their own governments, their resolution to stay the 
course? What message does it send to our enemies, people who would 
launch deadly attacks in our homeland as they've done in their homeland 
each and every day at an early opportunity.

This is a critical moment in our efforts in Afghanistan. I urge 
rejection of these amendments and support of our troops.

Let's pass the clean supplemental. Get rid of these amendments that 
do harm to our mission in Afghanistan and get about the business of 
supporting our national defense in a proper way.

