# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `7354e76c44bc8b3da23fe849b81dc8cf`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, we just heard a debate about 
debates. It strikes me that this word war we are conducting here 
doesn't get to the fact that we are losing people every day in Iraq--27 
Americans died in a weekend--and our friends on the other side want to 
discuss the rules and the process instead of being able to agree that 
there was a nonbinding resolution being proposed about whether you want 
to see this surge--a la escalation--of the war in Iraq. Our friends 
were so conscience-stricken that they wanted to resort to more words 
and amendments. Why couldn't we have just passed or discussed that 
nonbinding resolution, let it go, and let the debate then continue? 
Bring on the debates. But, no, this is the press relations battle which 
was just discussed by our colleague.

That is not what we are looking for. We are looking to save lives, 
American lives, but we can't get to the subject because there is a 
question about what the rules ought to be. The rules ought to be the 
decency of our consciences--let us make decisions that will save lives 
and ease the pain on American families.

This was an unfortunate dynamic we saw this week: Republican 
colleagues determined to block the opportunity for the Senate to vote 
on the President's war escalation policy for Iraq. Just when the 
American people want this Congress to stop the President's misguided 
plan, our colleagues on the other side are hard at work to shut


down that opportunity. What they are afraid of is that we will confirm 
our support for the troops who are there now, and any insinuation that 
isn't the truth is a foul lie. We are just as anxious to support the 
troops. We are more anxious, in many ways, because we called for 
equipment to be available to protect our troops. We called for vehicles 
to be properly armored. We called for the body armor to be developed. 
But we didn't hear any complaints about the misdeeds of the contractors 
who weren't doing what they were supposed to be doing. They were not 
even monitored. We are going to talk about that.

Our friends in the minority can delay this debate, and I hope the 
American public understands what is going on--delay the debates, don't 
let us come to the conclusion, don't let the President see that a 
majority of this Senate does not want this escalation to take place. 
They will delay this debate and vote for now, but it is going to happen 
eventually. It will happen because the American people are 
understandably frustrated with the President's conduct and mishandling 
of this war.

Our children are taught a lesson in school: If you do things wrong 
and you don't pass your courses, don't change your ways, don't listen 
to advice, you get an F on your report card. In the view of many of the 
American people--most of the American people--President Bush has gotten 
an F on his report card on the handling of the situation in Iraq. But 
he and the Vice President refuse to be held accountable, and his allies 
in the Senate are blocking us from holding him accountable. It is not a 
good lesson for our Nation's young people. They see that if they don't 
do their work, they fail the course, and the President has not done his 
work, and he ought not to get a positive grade for his job thus far.

The American people don't want Congress to grant unlimited power to 
the President and his incompetent crew. Our troops have done a 
magnificent job, but it is the President and failed leadership at the 
Pentagon that have let them down.

Who can forget Secretary Rumsfeld's quote:




 You go to war with the Army you have, not the Army you 


 might want or wish to have at a later time.


Frankly, it is a slur, in my view, against the troops we have, those 
courageous people over there fighting right now or at that time. It is 
a terrible message to send to our soldiers.

Who can forget when the insurgency first started and our troops were 
getting attacked with roadside bombs, when President Bush said ''bring 
'em on''? I wore our Nation's uniform in World War II, in Europe, and I 
can say none of us wanted our Commander in Chief taunting the enemy, 
inviting them to come on out and fight and maybe kill us. No. To be in 
harm's way and have your commander make such a statement from the 
safety and security of the White House is appalling.

Now the President wants a so-called surge. Does he want to surge our 
way to more problems? Does he want to surge our national debt by 
spending billions more every week in Iraq? Anybody who understands 
English knows that the real definition of ''surge'' as used here means 
''enlarge'' or ''escalate.''

From this war, we have more than 700 Americans who have lost limbs, 
more than 29,000 suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, and over 
3,000 have perished in Iraq, 74 of whom have ties to my home State of 
New Jersey. Yet President Bush dismisses the incredible cost of this 
war in lives, injuries, and resources essential for the health and 
well-being of our people at home, domestic programs.

After all the previous failures and incompetence by this 
administration, why should the American people allow the President to 
do whatever he chooses in this war, this war which has destroyed 
thousands of families' lives? Look at the President's record on Iraq: 
false intelligence on weapons of mass destruction; no posted invasion 
plan because the administration was convinced that we would be greeted 
with sweets and flowers in a Utopian celebration. The President's team 
decided to fire the entire Iraqi Army, dismissing 500,000 trained 
troops who might have been helpful to us in fighting this insurgency. 
Then the Bush administration helped create further sectarian division 
by simply banning members from serving in the new Iraqi Government. The 
administration has allied itself with an Iraqi Prime Minister who 
supports a militia leader named Sadr who controlled a terrorist militia 
which disagrees with the formation of a stable government.

We all saw the waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer funds by 
contractors such as Halliburton. The Iraqi reconstruction inspector 
general said that nearly $3 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars for Iraqi 
reconstruction has been lost--lost, vanished, $3 billion. That is not 
sloppy, that is incompetence. So it is understandable that a giant 
majority of the American people are against this escalation. The other 
side of the aisle obviously does not want to vote consistent with the 
American people's wishes or their prayers. Taxpayers are footing a 
massive bill for these mistakes.

The administration gave Halliburton a no-bid contract thought to be 
worth $50 million--well, it surged to $2.5 billion--to operate Iraqi's 
oil infrastructure. And what has that contract yielded in oil? Less oil 
4 years after the invasion than Iraq was producing before the war. 
Halliburton was forced to pay back $50 million after a fine was leveled 
against them by the Department of Defense. That is why the American 
people say no surge for Halliburton.

I was a member of the Department of Homeland Security committee in 
the previous Congress. I wrote five letters to the chairman asking we 
have hearings, oversight hearings, on the Halliburton behavior in the 
war. I was told that it would be duplicable, and we couldn't get a 
review of Halliburton's behavior.

When the Republicans were in the majority, they said a vote against 
the President's policy was cut-and-run, but now the American people are 
asking the question, What is the alternative? Stay and die?

In November, the American people spoke with the most effective means 
they have; that is, the ballot box. They said no. They said they want a 
change. They voted for a voice against the President. Now the 
Republican minority is blocking Congress from speaking.


The President and the minority in the Senate cannot continue to 
ignore the will of the American people. We already saw the President 
ignore his own chosen Iraqi Study Group. First he appoints them; then 
he challenges them or ignores them. He ignored the advice of GEN John 
Abizaid, who thinks this escalation is a bad idea. He ignored former 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, who said more troops are not the 
answer.

When do we say enough is enough? Well, I think that time is past due.

Outside my office, to remind us all--I am very sensitive to veterans 
matters, to our military, not just because I served but because they 
are there to protect us. And they do a splendid job, even when they are 
asked to do more than the numbers they should have are not in place, 
and the equipment has not been quite what it ought to be, delays in 
producing that. We display a memorial outside my office showing the 
''Faces of the Fallen,'' which says: ''Let Us Never Forget.'' There are 
almost 3,000 faces outside the door to my office. We have them on 
easels. It was our construction. The name, age, rank, battalion 
affiliation, and the cause of death of each of these Nation's fallen 
servicemembers is inscribed with their photo on the memorial. If you 
look, you see the ages and how young they were and what they must have 
meant to the families they left behind.

Friends and visitors search these photos daily for knowledge of 
people they might know and miss. As they search, as they review these 
pictures, some write notes in a book of reflections that we have out 
there. A woman from Englewood, NJ, wrote:




 How do we measure their sacrifice? We are so fortunate to 


 have these brave men and women.


A woman from Minnesota says:




 This display brings tears to my eyes, to see how many lives 


 have been lost. Please stop more boards from being added and 


 bring those who would find themselves memorialized here home 


 safely.


A Californian simply wrote:




 Bring them home!


These are what the American people want, and we ignore them at our 
own peril. We prevent a vote on this momentous issue at our own peril 
as well.



I close, saying to my colleagues on the other side, please stop the 
insinuations that we on this side of the aisle do not want to support 
our troops. Nothing could be further from the truth. Many of us, myself 
included, have been there to meet with our troops and see what they 
need and see what they want and listen to their tales of the days they 
spend in harm's way. We want to support them. We salute them. They 
honor their obligation to their country, even though we, in many cases, 
disagree with the mission.

And when we fool ourselves into believing that all we have to do is 
to put more people in harm's way and we will get a stabilized 
government there, we find, in many instances, the recruits they have in 
the army there are just not capably trained, don't have the will, in 
many instances, to take up the fight. And we want to put more of our 
people in there?

I think what ought to be done--as many others here do--is to start to 
whittle down our presence, leave enough of a resource there to help 
train those people, maybe instill some courage in their view of what 
their responsibilities are, get enough people in the flow--the Iraqi 
people--and plan to get them home as soon as we practically can.

With that, I yield the floor.