---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `736191807de2f174bd8c00e2cbdd86df`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I thank my friend and colleague, Senator 
Baucus. As we get to the opening of this debate, I wish to provide a 
little sense about where we are on the increase in the minimum wage. 
Most of those who watched the debate yesterday saw that we had an 
overwhelming majority of Members who voted effectively for cloture. 
Usually, that means the end of debate is in sight. But because of 
various procedural situations we are facing, now we know we are going 
to have another vote required on cloture. This debate probably will 
roll on into the very end of the week. There is no reason we can't 
dispose of the amendments rapidly. There are important responses that 
should be made, and then we can get about the business of finding ways 
where we can bring the House and Senate bills to accommodation and get 
the increase in the minimum wage to those who are hard working and are 
entitled to this increase.

This is our eighth day of debate on this issue. We have had 16 days 
of debate, outside of these last 8, so we're up to 24 days where we 
have debated the minimum wage on the floor of the Senate without 
getting an increase, 24 days we have debated, an issue as simple as 
going from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour should not take all that period of 
time. We know that here on the Democratic side we are prepared to vote 
now, today. I am sure we can get the majority leader to request that we 
vote at noontime or so today and get this process moved ahead. But, no, 
there are those on the other side who have a series of amendments and 
they have them now. The good Senator from Montana, Senator Baucus, will 
respond to the issue which is at hand.


I want to reiterate once again that this is not an omnibus tax bill. 
This legislation is long overdue. It is not an opportunity for Members 
to present their tax cut wish list. It is Congress' opportunity to 
finally right the wrong of denying millions of hard-working minimum 
wage workers a raise for 10 years.

Since the minimum wage was last increased 10 years ago, we passed 
$276 billion in corporate tax breaks. In addition, Congress has cut 
taxes for individuals by more than a trillion dollars, with most of the 
benefits going to the wealthiest taxpayers. Unfortunately, for some of 
our Republican colleagues, there are never enough tax breaks, and they 
have filed more than 25 amendments proposing new or expanded tax cuts 
to the minimum wage bill. Many of them would cost billions of dollars 
and most are not paid for.

So we know our friends on the other side are attempting to hold the 
minimum wage increase hostage for more tax cuts. I believe that is a 
shameless strategy. As has been pointed out, the Kyl amendment is one 
of the most expensive of all tax cut proposals. The entire amendment 
would cost more than $45 billion over the next 10 years. Not a single 
dollar is paid for. It is $45 billion the American people cannot 
afford, and it should be rejected. I know we will hear from Senator 
Baucus as he addresses this issue.

We have debated over the period of the last few days tax breaks for 
corporate America. Over the last 10 years, we have seen $276 billion in 
tax breaks for corporations and $36 billion in tax benefits to small 
businesses. We have increased the minimum wage nine times. There has 
only been one time we have ever added tax benefits. The House of 
Representatives, with the vote of 82 Republicans, passed a clean bill. 
That is what we should be about doing here. That is not where we are.

A final point I will make is that it came to my attention over the 
evening that many of the spouses of our service men and women in Iraq 
are working for low wages. In looking over the numbers of spouses of 
service men and women in Iraq, there are 50,000 who will benefit from 
an increase in the minimum wage. Imagine that, 50,000 members of the 
military force and their families will benefit from an increase in the 
minimum wage. That is not a point to dismiss lightly.

I think we ought to get about the business of doing something for 
those families and spouses. It is difficult for me to believe we have 
that number, but that is the figure--50,000 working between $5.15 and 
$7.25 an hour, so they would directly benefit from the raise to


$7.25. These are spouses of our military forces, and we are debating 
another $45 billion in tax cuts. This is supposed to be a debate about 
an increase in the minimum wage that hasn't been raised for 10 years. 
All it will do is restore the purchasing power of those on the lower 
rung of the economic ladder. It seems to me this continued delay is 
unconscionable.

Some have said it is necessary because our good friends on the other 
side are not prepared to get started on the debate on Iraq. There have 
been a lot of excuses and we hear all of them. But what has to be 
recognized is the increase in the minimum wage to $7.25 is going to 
benefit more than 6 million children. More than one million more 
children have fallen into poverty in the last 5 years. Six million 
children who live in homes where there will be an increase will 
benefit, with all of the implications that has in terms of nutrition, 
education, health care, and also in terms of the joy families can have 
when they get at least some small relief. These are hard-working people 
who are trying to provide for themselves and their families and trying 
to make a difference in the community. They are men and women of great 
dignity.

We ought to be getting to a final vote on increasing the minimum 
wage, and we ought to get about it now. If there is going to be 
additional debate on taxes and other things, let's do it at another 
time. Let's not hold hostage--which is what's being done here--an 
increase in the minimum wage for additional tax breaks. Let's not do 
that. Let's say we have sufficient respect and admiration for these men 
and women of dignity. They are primarily women in our society--and many 
of these women who have children. For all these who are working hard at 
the minimum wage, let's say we have sufficient respect for them so we 
are not going to hold them hostage to get tax breaks after tax breaks 
after tax breaks after tax breaks. These men and women are entitled to 
a Senate decision. We on our side are prepared to vote on it now; the 
sooner the better.

I am grateful to my colleague and friend from Montana for permitting 
me to say these words. I thank him very much for the courtesy.