# None
## `736d10c199b74093e707d475dd805f2b`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, to our new colleague from Minnesota, I say 
she expressed herself very well. This is a debate where nobody expects 
to change votes or minds in the short term. But it is a chance to 
express why you believe what you do about Iraq and how we go forward in 
that regard. It is always good to showcase our differences.

All of us in the body need to ask one question: Why is the Congress 
at such a low approval rating with the American people? What is it 
about what we are doing up here that is giving the public a bad taste 
about the way Congress works? That is a question I don't know how to 
answer completely. But I have a feeling that most Americans see 
Congress interacting with each other as if we are talking past each 
other and not many problems are being solved. We are trying to show the 
other side as being worse than we are.

It seems to me we are trying to construct a whole session of Congress 
around exposing other people's weaknesses and solving very few 
problems. Every now and then, you will step out in the middle, and the 
Senator from New York, the Presiding Officer--we have done some things 
I am very proud of, so there is hope. There are efforts


going on here in other areas to try to bring the Congress together and 
do some things that are important.

About Iraq, the reason no one is going to change their mind is that 
we just have a basic philosophical difference about how we go forward. 
Let me tell you what drives me more than anything else about the short 
term and the long term. The one thing we failed to do after the fall of 
Baghdad is plan for the worst-case scenario. One of the problems we 
have had is that we always assumed the best and never planned for the 
worst. We have gone down this road many times. The mistakes early on 
have come back to haunt us. We never had enough troops. The security 
situation got out of hand. We underestimated how hard it would be to 
build a democracy out of the ashes after dictatorship, and those early 
mistakes have cost. But in every war, you make mistakes.

What I am trying to do is talk about where we are now and where we 
are going to go. Acknowledging the early mistakes, we have paid a 
price. Let's not repeat them in another form. The old strategy after 
the fall of Baghdad was to focus on training, to keep the American 
military footprint as low as possible, empower the Iraqi military and 
army to take over their country and go fight al-Qaida and other 
extremist groups in firefights and come back behind walls. After 3/1/2/ 
years of engaging in that strategy, al-Qaida got stronger. We lost 
control of different provinces in Iraq to al-Qaida. Extremism grew, and 
we had no political reconciliation.

For 3 years--2 years, anyway; 2/1/2/ at least--I, along with Senator 
McCain and others, have been saying the old strategy wasn't working. I 
do defer to military commanders. We all should to a point. Every 
general and every politician should have their work product judged by 
results. It was clear to me that the old strategy was not producing the 
result to secure the country, bring about political reconciliation, and 
control extremism. As a matter of fact, the old strategy, which lasted 
for 3 years, resulted in losing ground to the enemy, a stronger al-
Qaida, a more fractured Iraq, and we were going nowhere fast. So I, 
along with others, pushed for a new strategy. The new strategy wasn't 
withdrawal. It was quite the opposite--reinforce.

Since February of this year, we have been bringing new combat 
capability into Iraq. We have added troops to make up for the mistakes 
initially made right after the fall of Baghdad. What has that 
additional combat capability done in Iraq and what has it failed to do? 
I think it is undeniable that General Petraeus's new strategy has been 
enormously successful in certain areas of Iraq that had been previously 
lost to al-Qaida. To me, that is the most encouraging sign yet of 
progress in Iraq. What has not happened is a securing of the country as 
a whole, the destruction completely of al-Qaida, the chilling out of 
Iranian involvement, and political reconciliation.

The new strategy is just exactly that--new. Instead of being behind 
walls with a limited military footprint, General Petraeus has deployed 
American forces into communities that were previously held by al-Qaida 
in Anbar Province. We have taken the fight to the enemy, and we have 
been able to dislodge al-Qaida in provinces that they dominated under 
the old strategy.

But here is the good news: Beating al-Qaida is always going to happen 
when we engage them because we are so much better militarily than they 
are. But the people who lived under their control in Anbar for all 
these months broke from al-Qaida and aligned themselves with us.

The best evidence I have seen thus far of a new strategy working is 
that not only have we liberated Anbar Province, a place you couldn't go 
6 months ago, if you were a Member of Congress, to be somewhere you can 
walk around now like Ramadi. In the year 2006, there were 1,000 people 
who volunteered to be policemen in Anbar Province for the whole year. 
As of now, in 2007, 12,000 Iraqis have volunteered to be part of the 
police force in Anbar. They are all from that area. Once the sheiks 
broke from al-Qaida and joined with the coalition forces, they made a 
call to the local community for the sons of Anbar to stand and fight, 
join the police. We will soon be able to reduce our combat presence in 
Anbar because the alliances we have formed with the local leadership, 
the addition of police, and the maturing of the Iraqi Army will allow 
Anbar to be held by the people of Iraq who live in Anbar. That was made 
possible only because we added combat capability at a time when it 
mattered.

The biggest reason Anbar flipped is because al-Qaida was brutal when 
they were in the place. The people in Anbar, the Sunni Arabs, had a 
taste of al-Qaida life, and they did not like it. Al-Qaida engaged in 
some of the most brutal acts imaginable against people under their 
control.

They killed family members of the leadership. They went after people 
whom they considered to be a threat. They imposed a way of life and 
living on the people of Anbar Province that was unacceptable. 
Literally, al-Qaida overplayed their hand. At the time they were 
overplaying their hand, literally comes over the hill American combat 
power in a new fashion, more of it reconfigured. It was a magic moment 
where we moved out behind the walls, created joint security stations. 
Iraqi police and soldiers would live with American soldiers in joint 
security stations. So in your neighborhood, now you will have a joint 
security station not far away where there will be American soldiers, 
Iraqi police, and army units living together that will be there to 
protect you and your family. These joint security stations have been a 
fundamental change in policy militarily.

Counterinsurgency is about going into the areas where the insurgents 
dominate, militarily dislodging them but changing the dynamic on the 
ground so it would be hard for them to come back. If we will continue 
to support those who have broken from al-Qaida and joined us, then we 
will have a stable situation in Anbar that we could never have achieved 
under the old strategy. Because people break away from al-Qaida, does 
that mean they embrace democracy--Sunni, Shia, and Kurd coexistence? 
No. But it is a start. It means they have rejected a way of life that 
has no place on the planet for people like us.

My good friend from New York, we have found many things that we can 
work on in common. But here is something else we have in common. A 
Democrat from New York and a Republican from South Carolina are viewed 
the same by our enemy, al-Qaida. They hate us both. If they could kill 
us both, they would because we have agreed that whatever differences we 
have, they could actually be a strength. When we get into a dispute, we 
go to the courthouse; we don't go out in the street and start killing 
each other. In America, religious differences are not only accepted and 
tolerated, they are viewed as a strength.


There are three conflicts going on in Iraq. One is among the 
sectarian population in Iraq, the Sunnis and Shias and somewhat the 
Kurds. That conflict can only be resolved by the Iraqi people embracing 
what they have in common, accepting their differences as a strength, 
and rejecting this desire to break away. I think that can happen 
because there are enough Sunni, Kurds and Shias willing to die to make 
that happen that I am still optimistic.

We had our own Civil War. It is hard to get different people from 
different backgrounds to live together, but we are an example that it 
can happen. But it comes sometimes at a great sacrifice. So the 
sectarian violence in Iraq will only be solved by having enough control 
of the security to keep tensions down and trying to build political 
reconciliation.

During immigration, I learned a lesson. People get mad when you do 
hard things. They can say pretty awful things about you. I learned a 
lot of cuss words that I never knew before. That is what happens in 
American politics when you try to embrace hard issues. People get mad. 
That is democracy. It is about expressing yourself. You just pay the 
price when you do that politically. But the price we pay is being 
called bad names. It may affect your election; it may not.

In Iraq, if you want to find the middle ground, they try to kill your 
family. Remember how hard it was on immigration when all those phone 
calls flooded your office trying to tell us: You better not do this; 
you better not do that. Imagine trying to sit down at a table in Iraq 
to find common ground with someone who represents a side that just 
maybe killed your family.



I would argue that political reconciliation in Iraq is hard because 
it is hard here. It is harder there because of the security environment 
which has broken down. We would be wise to provide better security. 
That is the way to get political reconciliation.

The key to solving sectarian conflicts in Iraq is better security, 
more diplomatic pressure, economic and political aid, and pressure to 
get the Iraqis to live as one with some amount of autonomy. The Sunnis, 
the Shias, and the Kurds are finally going to figure out that you will 
have a better life living together than if you try to break away 
because if the Shias try to dominate and create an Iranian style 
theocracy, the Sunni Arab nations are not going to sit on the sideline. 
If you are a Sunni trying to take power back by the use of a gun, they 
are not going to allow you to dominate the country by the force of 
arms, and you are not going to be able to split away from the rest of 
Iraq and live in peace because your neighbors are always going to 
consider you a threat.

If you are Kurd in the north and you think you can live up there 
peacefully and ignore what is happening in the south, you have another 
thing coming because turmoil in Iraq will make your life difficult. If 
you think you can break away from the rest of Iraq and have a Kurdish 
independent state without consequences from Turkey, you are kidding 
yourself.

Each group really will one day figure out we are better off in terms 
of our long-term interest to find some common ground here on how we can 
live together. That is going to happen, but we have to control the 
violence better and we have to push them harder.

The second fight involves al-Qaida. I was on this morning with 
Senator Obama on the ''Today'' show. He said something I believe is 
absolutely correct: Reasonable people can disagree. The one thing I 
hope reasonable people can agree is that al-Qaida is very unreasonable. 
If you could find some common ground with this crowd, please let me 
know. I have yet to find a way to reach out to al-Qaida without getting 
your arm taken off. They don't have a plan that we can buy into. I 
don't think they have an agenda that any of us, Republicans or 
Democrats, can say: Let's work on some middle ground.

Their agenda for the world is not totally different from Hitler's 
agenda for the world. It is a religious-based, driven conflict. They 
have taken a religious view of life that excludes moderate Muslims, 
Jews, Christians, and anybody who disagrees with them, and they feel 
compelled by God to topple all forms of moderation. People who do not 
practice Islam, in their view, are just as bad as we are. They have an 
agenda to make sure that those folks in the Middle East who reject 
their religion really pay a heavy price. One, they will be dominated, 
and if they don't change, they will be killed. Hitler had the same 
view: If you are racially different, if you don't live under the thumb 
of the Aryan race, you will be worked to death or killed. Al-Qaida is 
no different. They have a religious agenda they are trying to impose on 
the world.

Am I worried about al-Qaida sweeping the world and conquering 
Washington? No. Am I worried about al-Qaida taking over all of Iraq? 
No. Here is what I am worried about: If we let the country break apart 
and we have chaos in Iraq, they flourish, al-Qaida flourishes, because 
they go to places where lawlessness reigns, where they can intimidate 
people, and it allows them to move their agenda forward. Their agenda 
is pretty clear: Where moderation raises its dangerous head, lop it 
off.

The reason they have come to Iraq is because we went there; that is 
partly true. But the real reason they have come is they don't want the 
people in Iraq to change course. It is not about us changing course. We 
have changed course. The old strategy of sitting behind a wall and 
training and doing nothing else has been replaced by an aggressive 
strategy of going out in the neighborhoods, finding the enemy, 
suppressing the enemy, forming new alliances.

Let me tell you their strategy. They are very much on message. Where 
they find moderation, they are going to go after it. If they can be 
perceived as having won in Iraq, then what happens to the world at 
large? Are we safer? The answer is no. What they will do then, by 
destabilizing this attempt at democracy in Iraq, they will move the 
agenda to the Gulf Arab States, not because I say so but because they 
say so. One of the big threats they see in the Mideast is the Gulf Arab 
States engaging in the world through commerce and basically having a 
tolerant form of religion. The ultimate prize for al-Qaida is not only 
to create a caliphate in Baghdad that would dominate the region 
religiously, it is to destroy Israel. I am not making this up. I am 
just regurgitating what they say.


The surge--the biggest change I have seen in Iraq has come in Anbar 
where literally 12,000 people have joined the police in 2007 at this 
date versus 1,000 for the whole year 2006. The reason I am encouraged 
is that people again have broken away, and they have associated 
themselves with a different way of living. They didn't like al-Qaida. 
They are trying to start over again. We are giving them a chance to do 
so. The alliances in Anbar and Diyala that are being formed could be 
long lasting to provide security.

The third conflict is with Iran. We passed a resolution not long 
ago--I think it was last week--that was a damning indictment of Iran. 
That resolution had a long list of activity that we unanimously 
approved to be happening. That activity was the Iranian Government, 
through the Kuds force, was actively involved in the IED business, 
trying to provide materials to insurgents in Iraq to kill young 
Americans in the most effective way possible. We have captured two 
brothers who were responsible for kidnapping five Americans and 
executing them, and we have found from that capture that the resources 
to plan that attack came from Iran. It was a very sophisticated attack. 
They had vehicles they made up to be like American vehicles. They had 
American uniforms on. They went into a secure compound, got through the 
security checks, went in, and captured five Americans working with 
Iraqis that day, took them off. They were going to kidnap them, but it 
all went bad and they killed them. We found the two brothers in charge. 
They have Shia connections. They are tied to the Iranian regime. They 
were getting much of their support from the Kuds force in Iran, the 
Revolutionary Guard. That is another conflict.

The question for us is, If we said in July we are going to withdraw 
in May of 2008, if that were the statement to be made by the Senate by 
the end of this week, I ask one question: If you were an al-Qaida 
operative fighting in Iraq, your life has been pretty miserable lately 
because Petraeus is all over you. We are killing them, capturing them, 
putting them on the run in a way never known before. That is why 
Zawahiri last week issued a call for reinforcements, because he 
understands his force is under siege in Iraq and things are not going 
well because the local people are beginning to turn on them. So he told 
his al-Qaida brothers: Hang in there. The winds in Washington are 
blowing our way. Hang in there. Help is on the way.

I would argue as strongly as I know how that if the Senate did pass 
the Levin-Reed amendment, which says within 120 days from now we are 
going to be withdrawing, that every al-Qaida operative who feels under 
siege would have a tremendous boost in morale. It would be welcome news 
to al-Qaida in Iraq. The Senate has declared this war over militarily. 
We are beginning to leave. You would say: Thank God, because right now 
your life is miserable because of this new alliance we have formed and 
new combat power we put on the ground.

To those who have sided with us in Anbar and other places, if you 
read in the newspaper the end of this week that the U.S. Senate 
declares withdrawal to begin in 120 days, all troops are out by May of 
2008, it would be, in my opinion, a heartbreaking event to read about 
because you would wonder: Now that I have chosen a new course and I 
have openly stood against al-Qaida and Iranian involvement, what is 
going to happen to me and my family?

My good friend from Iowa has a different view of what happened in 
Vietnam than I do. Just as sure as I am standing here, al-Qaida would 
be emboldened if they heard we are going to withdraw beginning in 120 
days. They would believe they are back into the fight and if they could 
just hang in


there, this thing is going to turn around in their favor. For all those 
who broke with al-Qaida and joined us, their biggest fears are they are 
going to get killed. And they will.


What would Iran say? Iran would look at America anew. They would 
believe, I think rightly so, that their strategy of a proxy war 
produced dramatic results because what they have been able to achieve 
is that this experiment in tolerant democracy, with an Iraqi spin on 
it, failed.

Why is the Iranian Government trying to drive us out of Iraq? Why are 
they helping extremists of all kinds defeat American forces? Why are 
they trying to undermine the Maliki government? My belief is, they 
understand if a form of democracy emerges on their border in Iraq, it 
is this theocracy's worst nightmare. So they are doing what they are 
doing for a reason. That reason, to me, is pretty obvious. They do not 
want any democracy to emerge in their neighborhood because it is a 
threat to the way they do business.

The reason al-Qaida goes to Iraq is they do not want moderation to 
take off anywhere.

So I hope and literally pray we will give General Petraeus until 
September to keep doing what he is doing, and that in September we will 
look at the evidence presented to us about the successes and failures 
of the surge.

If you keep an open mind, here is what I think you find in July: The 
surge has created a change in dynamic on the ground in Iraq beneficial 
to us and detrimental to al-Qaida, and that is undeniable. Does that 
mean all the problems in Iraq are over? No. The surge has not produced 
political reconciliation we hoped for. I do believe if we begin to 
withdraw, political reconciliation that we hoped for is forever lost 
because people begin to make decisions based on when we leave and what 
is best for their family, not what is best for Iraq.

If we begin to leave now, in July--make a public announcement we are 
beginning to leave--al-Qaida gets bolstered beyond belief. If we stay 
where we are in terms of a new strategy being implemented aggressively, 
I think by September the al-Qaida footprint in Iraq will be greatly 
diminished, and those areas where they dominated will be easier to hold 
because the Iraqis have made a commitment to hold they never had 
before, and they will have the capacity to hold. If we will continue to 
allow this general and these new troops to do their job, al-Qaida is 
the biggest loser. Simultaneously, we are going to have to push the 
Maliki government to do things they need to do.

If we continue to show strength, Iran will change their policy. If we 
show weakness to Iran and al-Qaida, this war does not end, it gets 
bigger.

In conclusion, it is not about coming home. We all want them home as 
soon as possible. It is not about heartbreak. We all share it. I have 
had many parents come up to me who have lost children in Iraq or 
spouses and tell me: Please, do not let them die in vain. They believed 
they could win. They believed in what they are doing. Give the rest of 
them a chance to win. I have had people come up and say: I think my son 
or daughter, my husband or wife, died in vain. Don't let anyone else 
die.

Senators Reed and Levin believe that by setting a date to withdraw 
now, it will put pressure on the Iraqis to do things they have not yet 
done. I understand that. They believe that without additional pressure, 
the Iraqis will use us as a crutch. Fundamentally, I disagree with that 
concept. I think if you say we are going to withdraw now, in 120 days, 
it does not pressure the Iraqi politicians to do things quicker. It 
ensures they will never get done. It takes an enemy that is on the run 
and breathes new life into them. It takes an enemy called Iran and 
makes them bolder.

The signal you are trying to send has more than one audience. If the 
Senate tries to send a signal in July that we are beginning to withdraw 
in 120 days, and we will be out by May of 2008, the signal will be 
received by this group al-Qaida: We can do this if we hang in there. 
And the signal will be received by those in Tehran: We are going to 
drive America out. We have turned the corner when it comes to 
destroying this new democracy in Iraq.

Every moderate force that broke from al-Qaida, which is trying to 
stand up to Iran will feel like: My God, what is going to happen to my 
family?

If we choose to allow the military to continue this successful 
operation, stand behind them without equivocation, listen to them in 
September about what to do, I think we can build a security environment 
never known before in Iraq, and I think our best hopes of securing that 
nation, so reconciliation will one day occur, are achieved.

It is not about your patriotism; it is not about feeling heartbroken 
for those who have lost their lives. It is about how do you fight this 
war with an enemy that knows no boundaries.

My last thought: There has been a formula that has existed since the 
beginning of time that works. When people rear their ugly head and 
start talking about their neighbor having no place on the planet, when 
people start using religion as a way to dominate their neighbor, an 
excuse to dominate their neighbor, when people openly talk about 
destroying a particular ethnic group, or a particular race, or a 
particular religion, when they start doing that in terms of words and 
deeds, the rest of us who disagree need to stand up.

In the 1930s, too many people sat on the sidelines, ignoring the 
dangers of their time. The dangers of their time were Adolph Hitler and 
people like him who had no place on the planet for people who they 
believed were ''racially inferior'' or different in terms of the way 
they wanted to live their lives.

This enemy is saying things about fellow human beings that not only 
should be rejected in words, should be rejected by action. The action I 
am looking for, when it comes to the al-Qaida agenda, is to destroy it, 
to use every military force we have to destroy it, to align ourselves 
with people who reject it, and see this thing through.

God bless.

Several Senators addressed the Chair.