# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `737daf0687164eec69a565c3771bbcde`
`Mr. McKEON — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. I thank the leader for yielding me the time.

Mr. Speaker, I am very disappointed that the House Democratic 
leadership would allow a vote on these three amendments at this time. 
Make no mistake, all three would go far to cripple the war effort in 
Afghanistan and directly undermine the Commander in Chief.

Just 24 hours ago, the Senate unanimously confirmed General David 
Petraeus as the new commander of the U.S. and international forces in 
Afghanistan. And yet, not a day later, here we are on the House floor 
taking dangerous political potshots at our troops' mission and the 
President's strategy to surge an additional 30,000 troops in the 
region.



I strongly oppose all three Afghanistan amendments before us. Not 
only would they tie the hands of the Commander in Chief, but they send 
the exact wrong message to our allies and enemies alike at such a 
critical moment in our efforts in Afghanistan.

Today, our newly confirmed commander walked the halls at NATO 
headquarters, working to reassure our allies that our country is 
committed to this war. And right now he is heading to Afghanistan to 
take command. We should stand in unity with him, not sit here in 
Washington taking vote after vote to strip funding from our warfighters 
before his plan even touches down.

General Petraeus has proven himself to be one of America's most 
capable military officers. He turned around a perilous situation in 
Iraq, and our combat troops have started coming home. By the end of 
August, our troop levels in Iraq will be down to 50,000 for training 
and reserve purposes.

I believe the President has chosen the right commander and the right 
strategy in Afghanistan. I'm confident that General Petraeus and our 
troops can succeed if given the time, space, and resources they need to 
complete their mission.

As the General arrives in Afghanistan, those of us here in Congress 
cannot lose sight of the broader perspective. Our brave military men 
and women and their civilian counterparts are in the midst of a tough 
fight that's critical to the U.S. national security. Cutting off their 
funding in the middle of that fight is tantamount to abandonment.

In December, and again last week, the President reminded us why we 
are in Afghanistan. It was the epicenter of where al Qaeda planned and 
launched the 9/11 attacks against innocent Americans. After an 
exhaustive 90-day review last fall, the President recommitted the 
United States to defeating al Qaeda and the Taliban.

The timeline for success in Afghanistan cannot be dictated by 
arbitrary political clocks here in Washington. It must be driven by the 
operational clock in Kabul, Kandahar and the Afghanistan countryside. 
We all hope and pray that the goal can be accomplished by July 2011, 
but the President must adhere to his recent comments that conditions on 
the ground will dictate the pace of any withdrawal next summer.

I urge my colleagues to reject these ill-timed measures, reject 
attempts to strip funding for our warfighters and, instead, show our 
troops and allies a united front in our efforts.