---
---

# FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `7385f16927a0dbcf63ae0a234fdefbe1`
`Mr. DURBIN — 13 May 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would like to speak to the amendment 
which we will vote on shortly. It relates to the cost of gasoline. I 
can't think of another issue that has been in the forefront across 
America for a longer period than the cost of gasoline. It goes beyond 
that, obviously, to diesel fuel and jet fuel costs. We see it every 
day. You drive down the road, and you watch prices going up at the gas 
station. People ask Senators and Congressmen: You are supposed to be 
the bigwigs here. You are supposed to be so influential. Why haven't 
you done something; the gas prices are killing us.

And they are. Whether it is a family member commuting back and forth 
to work in downstate Illinois, trying to get to the State capitol, 
whether it is a an over-the-road trucker spending almost $1,000 to fill 
up his rig with diesel fuel, whether it is the CEO of an airline who 
has seen the worst first-quarter losses in the history of that airline 
because of the rise in the cost of jet fuel, it is hitting everybody. I 
talked to a chiropractor over the weekend. She told me her practice was 
dying because people didn't want to drive 20 miles for her services. 
They said: We will see you every other week instead of every week. As 
you see, it is starting to reach into every single area.

So what response do we have from the Republican side? The response is 
predictable and ineffective. Here is what they say: You know what we 
ought to do. We ought to start drilling for oil in the Arctic National 
Wildlife Refuge and we ought to start drilling for oil off the coasts 
of America.

OK. How much oil is there?

Oh, there is a lot.

In the scheme of things, it is not a lot. All of the oil reserves 
within the control of the United States of America, all of them 
combined come to 3 percent of the world's total oil reserves. Each 
year, our Nation--a powerful, large economy--consumes 25 percent of all 
the oil produced in the world. We cannot drill our way out of this 
issue. We cannot drill our way to lower prices.

Here is something they fail to mention: If we gave approval today--
which I think would be a bad idea--to the Republican approach, it would 
be years before the oil would start trickling in, meaning years of high 
prices.

So what can we do here and now? Two things: First, we can start 
dealing with the price gouging of consumers. Prices are going up 
dramatically at historically high rates. They are not justified by the 
barrel-of-oil prices. The spread between the cost of a barrel of oil 
and the cost of refined product keeps growing larger and larger, and 
the oil companies that are refining the crude oil keep making more and 
more money. Price gouging is going on. That is the first issue. Is 
there any mention of consumer price gouging in the Republican approach? 
Not one word. In the Democratic approach, we believe price gouging 
should be part of this.


Secondly, accountability of the oil companies. These oil companies, 
over the last 7 years when George Bush from oil country has been our 
President, have seen their profits quadruple--four


times the profits they were making just a few years ago. The cost of 
oil and diesel fuel has gone up 2/1/2/ times; the oil company profits, 
quadrupled. These companies are not only making more money than oil 
companies have ever made, they are making more money than any business 
in the history of America. That is a fact.

We have a windfall profits tax. We say there is a limit to how much 
these oil companies should be making as profits when it causes so much 
damage to American families and businesses and farmers and truckers and 
the economy. We have a windfall profits tax. The Republican approach: 
nothing--nothing to address the oil company profits. That is the 
reality.

Now, Senator Reid, the Democratic majority leader, came to the floor 
a few minutes ago and told us what is going on with the Republican 
strategy. So far in this session of Congress--we have 2-year sessions 
of Congress--the Republicans have initiated 70 filibusters. Today, they 
will hit 71. You might say: So what. What does that mean? In the 
history of the Senate--over 200 years--the maximum number of 
filibusters in a 2-year period of time was 57. The Republicans have 
broken that record.

What is a filibuster? A filibuster is a way to delay, slow down, 
avoid, try to turn the page to another issue. Over and over and over 
again--70 times--the Republicans have now set a record for obstruction 
in stopping progress in the Senate, whether it is on issues of energy, 
whether it is on issues of health care, helping our schools, dealing 
with the war in Iraq--over and over and over again, Republican 
filibusters.

Today, we will have a vote. We are going to have a vote in a short 
period of time--at 12:15, maybe earlier; I am not sure. But in the 
course of that vote, we will have a choice on whether we at least will 
make one small step forward when it comes to dealing with gasoline 
prices. We cannot justify, in the current situation, continuing to take 
oil off the market where the Federal Government buys it and stores it. 
It is called the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Currently, it is at about 
97 percent of capacity. We are buying the most expensive crude oil in 
the history of the world, and storing it, taking it off the market, 
further putting an increase on gasoline prices.

We will offer an alternative to the Republican approach which will 
say that we will suspend filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. It 
might pass. Fifty-one Democratic Senators, incidentally, wrote a letter 
to the President on March 11 asking the President to suspend the 
filling of the Petroleum Reserve because gasoline prices were out of 
control. The President refused. Now we have to pass a law to force the 
President to do something about these gasoline prices.

I think suspending shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is 
the most sensible way for us to bring these prices down. I hope we can 
get the cooperation of the Republicans, beyond that, to deal with the 
price gouging of consumers and accountability for oil companies and not 
face another Republican filibuster when it comes to that important 
issue.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.