# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `7399c6321cf246f7c4fd348449cdd3f8`
`Mr. CRAIG â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I rise to comment on a bill that is being 
introduced by Senator Snowe today, the Veterans Small Business 
Opportunity Act of 2007. I am proud to join with Senator Snowe and 
Senator Pryor as an original cosponsor of this important bill.

This legislation will benefit patriot ''citizen-soldiers'' who are 
called from their employment at America's small businesses to serve our 
country in uniform. In States across the Nation, small businesses are 
being affected by the mobilization of our Guard and Reserve personnel. 
In my home State, the Idaho National Guard's 116th Brigade Combat Team 
returned in 2005 from an 18-month deployment to Iraq. I visited members 
of the 116th while they were in Iraq and discovered that a good number 
had left jobs at small businesses across Idaho. I also held a hearing 
in Idaho during the 109th Congress to examine the reemployment rights 
of returning Guard and Reserve members.

At that hearing, it was emphasized that, although legal rights to 
reemployment are critical, they do little for those who have no 
employer, or no small business, to return to. To me, it was clear that 
we should do more to help small businesses in coping with the financial 
hardships of frequent and lengthy mobilizations of its employees or 
owners during the war on terrorism. I believe we can provide some of 
that needed assistance with this legislation, which includes key 
provisions from The Patriot Loan Act of 2006, a bill that Senator Snowe 
and I introduced last year.

This bill would enhance the U.S. Small Business Administration's 
Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan, or MREIDL, Program. 
That program provides loan assistance to small businesses to help them 
meet ordinary and necessary operating expenses after essential 
employees are called to active duty in their roles as citizen-soldiers.

This bill would raise the maximum military reservist loan amount from 
$1.5 million to $2 million. It would also allow the Small Business 
Administration, by direct loan or through banks, to offer unsecured 
loans of up to $25,000, an increase from the current $5,000 limit. In 
addition, this bill would ensure proactive outreach to Guard and 
Reserve members about the MREIDL Program and other small business 
programs by requiring SBA and the Department of Defense to develop a 
joint Web site and printed materials with information about those 
programs.

For the brave men and women who serve our Nation in the Guard and 
Reserve, we must do what we can to ensure that their sacrifices do not 
place them in financial harm's way when they return home. I urge my 
colleagues to support these measures, and I thank Senator Snowe for her 
leadership in introducing this bill.