---
---

# RELATING TO THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE REUNIFICATION OF JERUSALEM
## `73ab6d5f9a467df53a260260d4dfd869`
`Mr. MARKEY — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. 
Res. 152, celebrating the 40th anniversary of the reunification of the 
city of Jerusalem.

The city of Jerusalem is a unique place in the world, steeped in 
history and faith, the eternal heart of three major world religions. 
Jerusalem has suffered war and conquest repeatedly throughout the ages, 
but I have faith that Jerusalem will never be fractured again.

Jews, Muslims, and Christians all find a spiritual home in Jerusalem, 
and it is essential that Jerusalem remain open to worshippers of all 
faiths. Unfortunately, for too many years of its history, access to the 
holy sites in Jerusalem was denied to some. But for the last 40 years, 
Israel has guaranteed access to all faiths, and the world community has 
been able to visit Jerusalem freely. I applaud Israel for this 
principled and fair policy, which has surely not always been easy to 
maintain. It is an important affirmation of Israel's humane and 
democratic values that a country which finds itself under frequent 
attack would maintain a commitment to the openness of a site of such 
international importance as Jerusalem.

Unfortunately, the great emotion people feel about the holy city of 
Jerusalem has frequently found a false outlet in violence against 
others. It is a great sadness to me, and a great injustice against the 
history and sanctity of Jerusalem, that the city has been a flashpoint 
for so much violence in my lifetime.

I am deeply disappointed and frustrated that in the past several 
years the Middle East peace process has been derailed from the 
promising moments during the Clinton presidency. President Clinton was 
as deeply involved, at a personal as well as a political level, with 
the quest to find a permanent solution to the problems of the region as 
any world leader has ever been. While he was not quite able to attain 
the overarching peace agreement that he had worked so hard to achieve, 
President Clinton recognized that finding a lasting solution to the 
Israeli-Palestinian issue needed to be a foreign policy priority of the 
United States.

Since President Clinton left office, the involvement of the United 
States in the Middle East peace process has been scattered, sporadic, 
and ineffectual. Instead of redoubling our efforts to find peace, the 
United States launched a disastrous war in Iraq. We have sparked a 
bloody civil war in that country, inflamed Islamic fundamentalism 
throughout the Middle East, empowered the dangerous regime in Iran, 
ignored the frustrations and economic despair of the Palestinians, and 
damaged the immediate security of our great ally in the region--Israel.

On the 40th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem, I view 
that city as a symbol of hope in the bleak landscape of the Middle 
East. Through Israel's commitment to the openness of Jerusalem, 
worshippers of all faiths can visit the holy Old City and see the 
beauty of its timeless stone buildings and ancient walls.

The United States has always stood steadfast with its close ally 
Israel, and we must never cease doing so. We must recommit ourselves to 
the peace process in the Middle East, and lead the international 
community in forging a path to reconciliation and coexistence. We must 
dedicate ourselves to bringing about a new peaceful history in this 
divisive region, so that future generations may continue to find 
spiritual renewal in Jerusalem.