---
---

# IRAQ
## `73bc07638c90d936d54d1ee7fd49c235`
`Mr. INHOFE — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, let me, first of all, commend our 
colleague who just spoke. Senator Lieberman is very knowledgeable. It 
has been such an honor for me, in the years I have been in the Senate, 
to be serving on both the Armed Services Committee with him as well as 
the Environment and Public Works Committee.

I very much am opposed to Senator Feingold's bills. But I wonder, in 
this short session, in the short time we have left--we have such things 
to debate: the budget, housing, energy, consumer product safety, 
education, farm programs--and I have to ask: Why are we wasting 
valuable time on these bills? And why at this time do we need another 
report?

The National Security Strategy was written in 2006, and another will 
be required 150 days after the new administration comes in. The 
National Military Strategy review has been completed, and the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs is conducting his own additional review. The 
Quadrennial Defense Review will be out later this year. And the 
National Defense Strategy is also mandated by law. We currently have 
the strategy in place to win the global war on terror.


The study prescribed by S. 2634 ties the hands of our military by 
telling them to outline a strategy that does not let them utilize the 
full extent of their resources.

Furthermore, the substance of Senator Feingold's bills has been 
debated and defeated. On December 18, 2007, we voted against an 
amendment of the same nature as S. 2633 from the very same Senator, 
Senator Feingold. It was a troop withdrawal amendment, it was No. 3875, 
and it was defeated 71 to 24. We have already done this. Senator McCain 
said it best when he said that a majority had, by December 18, engaged 
in no less than 40 legislative attempts to achieve the misguided 
outcome of precipitous withdrawal. This makes Nos. 41 and 42. All of 
these 40-odd, time-wasting attempts have been defeated. Why? Because we 
are doing the right thing in Iraq.

We did away with the oppressive regime of Saddam Hussein, where mass 
graves, torture, and rape were normal and everyday occurrences. We did 
away with terrorist training camps in Samarra, Ramadi, Sargat, Salmon 
Pak--and incidentally, Salmon Pak, in that training camp, they had a 
fuselage of an old 707 there, teaching people how to hijack airplanes. 
I guess we will never know whether the perpetrators of 9/11 were 
trained there. But nonetheless, there were four training camps there. 
They are gone now. They are closed.

We helped the Iraqi people create a free and Democratic country, 
where representation and the rule of law are replacing coercion and 
terror. The Iraqi Parliament has passed legislation that has reformed 
the de-Ba'athification, enacted pension reform that allowed former 
Ba'athists to collect their pensions. They enacted a law defining the 
provincial and central government roles and responsibilities. They 
passed the 2008 budget--faster than we are doing it, actually--and 
enacted an amnesty law that could lead to the release of thousands of 
detainees, removing a stumbling block standing in the way of 
reconciliation.

We have done the right thing, and we are winning.

It is interesting. A lot of the people who were the defeatists come 
back now--Katie Couric is an example--who says we are actually winning. 
Less than half the al-Qaida leaders who were in Baghdad when the surge 
began are still in the city. They have either fled or were killed and 
captured.

In addition to the list Senator Lieberman talked about and in terms 
of the successes, there has been a 75-percent reduction in religious 
and ethnic killings in the capital, they have doubled the seizure of 
insurgents' weapons caches, there has been a rise in the number of al-
Qaida killed and captured, they have knocked out six media cells, 
making it harder for al-Qaida to spread their propaganda, and Anbar 
incidents of attacks are down from 40 a day to less than 10 a day. 
There has been economic growth, markets are open, and the streets are 
crowded.

We have been over there and we have seen it. You didn't used to be 
able to do that. The Iraqi Army is performing well.

The Iraqi citizens formed a grassroots movement called Concerned 
Citizens Leagues. This is interesting because this is allowing 
citizens, as we have in Washington, DC, and in Tulsa, OK--we have 
groups that go out there to protect ourselves, and that is what these 
people are doing. They are unarmed. They are going out now with paint 
cans and drawing circles around undetonated IEDs and unexploded 
ordnance.

COL Tom James, one of the commanders of the 3rd I.D. in Iraq, said 
last Friday, February 22:




 The current security situation is stable and I am 


 optimistic about the future. Sunni extremists are severely 


 disrupted. They no longer find sanctuary and support from the 


 population.


We are winning because we are supporting our war fighters with a 
fundamental advantage, allowing them to command and control their 
forces--not doing it from here. Senator Feingold's amendment serves to 
tie the hands of our commanders on the ground.

S. 2633 legislates defeat. There is no other way to put it. The 
amendment legislates defeat. Secretary Gates said: If we were to 
withdraw, leaving Iraq in chaos, al-Qaida most certainly would use 
Anbar Province . . . as another base from which to plan operations not 
only inside Iraq, but first of all in the neighborhood and then 
potentially against the United States.

I must remind Senator Feingold and the cosponsors of this amendment 
that al-Qaida is not the only threat to America and to our ideals. 
Ahmadinejad said on August 28--this is very interesting. He said:




 Soon we will see a huge power vacuum in the region.


A power vacuum.

He said this expecting our defeatism--he is talking about these 
resolutions--he said:




 Of course, we are prepared to fill the gap.


Now here is Iran, a country which recently declared a doubling of its 
uranium enrichment program and has been testing ballistic missiles, 
talking about filling this gap, the void that would be created.

A lack of a secure and stable Iraq means instability in the Middle 
East and a clear avenue for terror and oppression to spread, and 
already has spread, into Africa.

I have had occasion to be in what we refer to as the CENTCOM and now 
AFRICOM and EUCOM some 27 times since 9/11. A lot of that time is down 
in areas such as Djibouti and in the heart of Africa, where we have our 
forces down there, because with this squeeze taking place in the Middle 
East, there is a lot of the terrorist traffic going into Africa. As for 
S. 2634, as the one before it, it is a thinly veiled attempt to end the 
war in Iraq by legislating defeat.

The bill proposes to micromanage military strategy by forcing the 
administration to narrowly define the future movement and employment of 
military personnel. It attempts to define the type of missions the 
military can conduct and places constraints on the length of time the 
military can deploy. It falsely presumes our professional warriors 
would be better served by limiting their deployments rather than 
supporting their victory over the enemy.


By the way, all these people who now talk to me about the long 
deployments--and I agree the deployments are too long--I wonder where 
they were in the 1990s when we cut down the size of our military, when 
we brought the number of divisions down from 18 to 10. I can remember 
being on the floor saying this day was going to come and that some day 
we were going to say: Why did we cut back so far?

Again, COL Tom James, speaking about our recent successes, said:




 It all goes back to this window of security being opened, 


 and being able to exploit that window of opportunity through 


 governance and economics and building the capacity of the 


 Iraqi security forces. This has all been enabled because of 


 the surge.


Proposing specific deployment and dwell times would limit the 
flexibility


of our commanders to conduct operations in the field and infringe on 
the President's authority as Commander in Chief.

So this is the same flexibility that allowed the Commander in Chief 
to surge forces and turn the tide in Iraq. I am one of those who 
personally observed the changes that took place in Iraq with the surge. 
It was about a year ago right now. I recall a report where our 
intelligence was actually attending all the weekly Friday mosque 
meetings, and at that time, my recollection is 85 percent of those 
messages given by the imams and the clerics were anti-American 
messages. That stopped in April, and they realized things are working 
there. There is so much talk about the political leaders, I kind of 
look at the religious leaders as part of the reason for the successes 
we have had.

So I think we have already voted on these. They have been voted down, 
and we don't need to waste any more time on it. I think common sense--
when we sit on the Senate Armed Services Committee, as we did this 
morning, and we looked at the brilliant generals who were testifying 
before us, such as General Casey, these people spend a lifetime knowing 
what is going on and how to negotiate wars. We are winning. Things are 
good right now. I have often thought--I was honored in 1991 to be on 
the first freedom flight back to Kuwait. At that time, the Iraqis 
didn't know the war was over. They were still burning the fields. I 
remember going into one of the houses that actually was the Ambassador 
to the United States from Kuwait, a family of nobility, going into 
their home. They wanted to see what it looked like. Saddam Hussein had 
used it for one of his headquarters, and the little daughter going up 
to her bedroom to see what it looked like, they had used her bedroom 
for a torture chamber. The unimaginable things that were going on over 
there: Looking into the mass graves. I would think that those 
individuals on the other side, if nothing more--if that were all there 
were to it--would say we have to finish. It is our humanitarian 
responsibility.

We are experiencing a victory, the surge is working, and I hope we 
will be able to dispose of, in a very quick way, these two bills 
authored by Senator Feingold.

I yield the floor.
