---
---

# None
## `73c98171efbbae444c21fe939d9d0c97`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today along with my colleagues in strong support 
of this legislation. At a time when our Nation is at war on multiple 
fronts, we must maintain a strong commitment to these brave men and 
women in uniform who stand in defense of our Nation. This legislation 
takes a responsible, forward-looking approach to the funding of our 
current operations and provides for the needs of our American heroes.

In addition to the things already mentioned by my colleagues, such as 
an increase in end strength and the very important pay raise, I am 
particularly pleased at the inclusion of two important legislative 
provisions that I introduced earlier this year, the Yellow Ribbon 
Reintegration Program and authorization for assignment incentive pay 
for National Guardsmen unfairly denied this benefit.

The Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program nationalizes a program 
created by the Minnesota National Guard. Through experiences drawn from 
the deployments of smaller units to Iraq and Afghanistan, the Minnesota 
Guard developed a unique combat veteran reintegration program with a 
focus on supporting servicemembers and their families throughout the 
entire deployment cycle.

With this focus, the Minnesota Yellow Ribbon program has proven an 
effective means to prepare every combat veteran and their family for a 
safe, healthy and successful reintegration. This multifaceted program 
includes workshops and training events at 30-day, 60-day and 90-day 
intervals for servicemembers following their demobilization.

This bill also moves us toward fixing a major disparity among 
Minnesota National Guardsmen. Congress created assignment incentive pay 
to recognize the hardship of prolonged mobilization periods for 
Reservists and Guardsmen called up under partial mobilization 
authority. The military services, however, deploy Guardsmen and 
Reservists under other mobilization authorities.



Through no fault of their own, many Minnesota National Guardsmen who 
served in Bosnia and Kosovo were mobilized using different authorities. 
When these same soldiers, many of them senior non-commissioned 
officers, were asked to deploy with their fellow Guardsmen to Iraq in 
2006, those who had served in Kosovo were given $1,000 a month in 
assignment incentive pay while those who had served in Bosnia were not. 
Clearly this is not fair. I am very pleased that this legislation 
recognizes that and rectifies this disparity.

Mr. Speaker, I would encourage all of my colleagues to join me today 
in voting for this important legislation that supports our troops.