---
---

# COLLEGE OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `73cb8cf62340b99cdf43eec0a54179fe`
`Mr. YOUNG of Alaska — 7 February 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I thank the ranking member, and I thank the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson) for introducing this 
legislation. I am the cosponsor of the amendment, and I thank the 
chairman of the full committee.

The proportion of married U.S. soldiers serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan is higher today than in any other previous war, including 
the Civil War. Consequently, when these brave men and women are killed 
in the line of duty, they often leave behind husbands, wives and 
children.

Since 2001, more than 4,400 U.S. servicemembers have died during 
their deployment in Iraq or Afghanistan, and more than 2,100 children 
have lost a parent as result of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Nine months after Fort Wainwright's Stryker Brigade Combat Team 
returned from their deployment in Iraq, Bassett Army Community Hospital 
in Fairbanks delivered a record number of babies. Those babies will be 
a year old when their parents redeploy this fall. This amendment, which 
I have offered with the distinguished gentlewoman from Texas, will 
ensure that they deploy with the knowledge that, if necessary, their 
children's education will be taken care of.



Our amendment will provide financial assistance and access to higher 
education for children who lost a parent or guardian as a result of our 
ongoing military presence in Iraq and Afghanistan. It allows the 
children who have been left behind to have access to a maximum Pell 
Grant award by waiving the income eligibility requirement for them.

It will apply to children of U.S. soldiers who have died while 
performing military service in Iraq or Afghanistan after September 11, 
2001. Children who are 18 years or younger or those enrolled part time 
or full time at college at the time of the parent or guardian's death 
will be eligible for a Pell Grant application starting in 2009.

The death of a parent is not only emotionally devastating for a 
child, but often creates a financial hardship for the family. Through 
this Pell Grant award we can offer a chance for a bright future for the 
children of those who gave their lives in the name of service for their 
country.

I urge my colleagues to support our amendment and help those children 
who have been left behind. I would like to thank the distinguished 
gentlewoman from Texas for offering this amendment with me and reaching 
across the aisle in a bipartisan way to solve some of the problems 
caused by this war.