---
---

# None
## `73d0ed1d6e3ba5fc5c6cec7815cdb278`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. I thank the gentleman.

I rise in opposition to the rule but in support of the underlying 
Defense appropriations bill.

There is nothing more important than the safety and security of our 
Nation and our people. This underlying bill will provide our troops--
volunteers--the resources and tools they need that will allow them to 
continue their heroic work to protect us and our interests around the 
world. Even though I oppose this restrictive rule--and it's a 
restrictive rule--I will support the bill. But I wish we could have 
found some way to meet and improve on the President's request for the 
Department of Defense.

This bill falls $3.5 billion short of even President Obama's treading 
water budget. The world did not become a safer place in January. The 
signs are everywhere. North Korea is threatening conventional and 
nuclear war. Russia is becoming more belligerent. China is rapidly 
expanding its naval forces, cybercapabilities, and its space ambitions. 
Iran is working overtime on missile and nuclear capabilities, and yes, 
there are disturbing signs occurring in Africa, horrendous acts of 
violence in the name of religion. And yet we're cutting missile 
defense, halting the Army's modernization program, known as the Future 
Combat Systems, and refiguring it, and failing to provide enough money 
for more Navy ships and fifth-generation Air Force fighters.

This treading water approach to national security is very 
shortsighted. Mr. Speaker, I support reform of our military acquisition 
process. I support Secretary Gates' program to reexamine our national 
security priorities in light of new irregular challenges and the 
threats that are proliferating well beyond Iraq and Afghanistan.

But I'm worried about our apparent obsession with this war-ism. Yes, 
we must focus our attention and resources and energy on Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but I urge my colleagues to make sure that we make enough 
investments today to ensure that we will be prepared to defend our 
interests against all threats in the years to come.

Mr. Speaker, our Defense Subcommittee once again has been a model for 
bipartisan compromise and cooperation in the interest of national 
security. I want to thank Mr. Murtha and my ranking member, Mr. Young, 
who spoke earlier, for their hard work and that of staff.

But I urge defeat of this restrictive rule.