---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `73d8950c67346613104e46464bd986ef`
`Mr. ADERHOLT — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, today is a day that we will look back on 
and know that fundamental decisions regarding our Nation's history were 
made.

The discussions that we are engaged in will go a long way in 
determining our future in the ongoing global war on terror and Iraq's 
role in that fight. When this vote is cast on the non-binding, 
Democratic resolution, we will be sending a message to the world. The 
only question remaining is what message will we send?

Will we say that America remains steadfast against the rising tide of 
hate and intolerance offered by militant Islamists? Will we say that we 
don't have the stomach to finish the fight against terrorists who 
actively seek to kill us and destroy our way of life?

The war in Iraq has become such a flashpoint that we struggle to 
separate the politics of the situation from the reality. The politics 
attacks the intelligence that led us to war, questions our Nation's 
elected leadership, and condemns the decisions made along the way. It 
leads to the resolution that we now have before us. The reality 
recognizes that we are at war now and our troops are putting their 
lives on the line each and every day. It says that if this is a fight 
that we believe in, a fight against global terrorism, we must do 
everything possible to support the men and women who are carrying it 
out on our behalf and never giving a hint to the contrary.

Unfortunately we are at a point today where some have forgotten 
exactly who and what we are fighting.

Prior to 9/11, we failed to understand the hate of people like Osama 
bin Laden and what could result from it despite all evidence to the 
contrary. In 1979, 66 American diplomats were held hostage in Iran for 
444 days; in 1983, 241 Marines were killed in Beirut when their 
barracks was attacked; militant Islamic terrorists bombed the World 
Trade Center in 1993; 225 people were killed in attacks


on U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya in 1998; and, in 2000, 17 
American sailors were killed when al-Qaeda attacked the U.S.S. Cole.

Today we are at a historic crossroads: we either boldly tackle the 
issue of militant Islam that exists on the Iraqi front and is part of 
this world-wide struggle, applying the lessons we have learned from the 
years leading up to 9/11, or we approach the issue as we naively 
demonstrated before 9/11 and expect more attacks and more American 
deaths.

The war in Iraq has gone on longer than any of us would have wished. 
We've seen too many funerals for too many sons and daughters, husbands 
and wives. To all those who have lost a friend or loved one, our hearts 
go out to you.

It should be noted that mistakes have been made, of that there can be 
no doubt. We must know without question what led us to this point, and 
that time will come. But now is not that time. Not while we still have 
American service men and women in harm's way. History will play its 
part, teaching us our mistakes and urging us not to repeat them. But we 
don't have the luxury of waiting on history to pass its judgment.

Without resolve, it is certain we will fail in Iraq and there will be 
far-reaching consequences for our Nation, the region and ultimately the 
world. Since September 11, there have been major terrorist attacks in 
Karachi, Bali, Moscow, Casablanca, Riyadh, Istanbul, Madrid, London and 
Amman. If we allow the terrorists present in Iraq to win, we can expect 
more of the same. We can expect to see another Afghanistan--a puppet 
government established to support and back the aims of their terrorist 
masters. This is totally unacceptable.

Victory in Iraq is our only option. It is the only path through which 
we can hope for peace. Without victory, our terrorist enemies gain 
confidence in their opposition to the United States and their ability 
to defeat us militarily. We embolden them and offer them the 
opportunity to further their attacks against American men, women and 
children.

The resolution that we are debating will send a message to the world. 
What will that message be? My fervent hope and prayer is that it will 
be a message of resolve, a message of strength, a message of victory.

Now is the time to support our troops in the field unequivocally and 
vote against this nonbinding resolution. We don't want anyone to 
construe our action here today as not fully supporting our men and 
women who serve us in Iraq.