---
---

# None
## `73e48c9bcf2656ac96bc315658bd54c4`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, yesterday in Chicago, Eric Lill was laid 
to rest. Eric Lill grew up in the Bridgeport neighborhood on the south 
side of Chicago. He watched the White Sox. He ate Connie's pizza. On 
September 11, he was moved to enlist in the Army. He left in February 
of 2002 to serve, and in his second deployment in Iraq, he was killed 
by a roadside bomb.

On Sunday, SPC Eric Lill came home from Iraq in a flag-draped coffin. 
He was 28 years old. He leaves behind a 6-year-old son and a 4-year-old 
daughter.

Eric Lill's story is a story repeated thousands of times across 
America during the course of this war, 150 times in my home State of 
Illinois--stories of bravery and heroism. There are also 30,000 stories 
of injured Americans who have come home with amputations and traumatic 
brain injuries, some whose lives will never be the same. They are our 
patriots, our heroes, and we salute them.

Across the street from Eric Lill's house on the south side of Chicago 
is the home of his grandmother, Marlene Alvarado. Specialist Lill used 
to call his grandmother every Saturday from Iraq to tell her he was 
safe. This morning, Mrs. Alvarado looks out her front window over at 
her grandson's house still decorated with yellow ribbons.

During the course of this 4/1/2/-year war, a war that has lasted 
longer than World War II, there have been many yellow ribbons, there 
have been many flag-draped caskets, and there have been many broken 
Iraqi promises.

I listened to the speeches from the other side of the aisle pleading 
with us to be patient with the Iraqis; the time will come when they 
will lead their nation forward. I could give the Iraqis patience if it 
weren't patience paid for in the lives and blood of American 
servicemen. We have been patient for 4/1/2/ years. It is time for the 
Iraqis to stand and defend their own nation.

It is time for honesty, not bravado. It is time for realism, not 
fantasy. This war was born in deception. At the highest levels of our 
Government, it has been waged with incompetence and arrogance. Sadly, 
it is the most serious foreign policy mistake of our time. This war 
will not end if we depend on the insight or the humility of our 
President.

We, those of us who are Members of the Senate, must speak for the 
American people. We must speak for our war-weary soldiers, and we must 
bring this war to an end. At the end of this debate, there will be a 
vote on an amendment, the only amendment which will bring our soldiers 
home and end this war responsibly.

I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to join us in 
this bipartisan effort.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.