# CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS
## `73e9396704fc25669682711de2f1651e`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Altmire, you hit it right on the head. 
It is, fix the problem, hold people accountable, in that order. We need 
to start holding people accountable here. I think that is a lot of 
frustration that led to you and I coming here and 40 or so of our 
fellow new colleagues here. I think a lot of the impetus that brought 
us here was this sense that nobody was being held accountable for what 
was happening in the government, whether it be the failure of our 
military strategy in Iraq or whether it be the failure of many of our 
domestic programs here at home.

So we have got to keep the focus and the light of this place on 
finally holding this administration and the people in it and, frankly, 
even Members of this legislature accountable for their actions. But we 
have got to fix the problem first because people didn't send us here 
just to investigate and hold hearings and put out subpoenas. They want 
that responsibility of Congress to come back. They want us to fulfill 
that constitutional obligation. But they sent us here to get stuff 
done. And that is the miracle of what has happened here over the last 2 
months is that we are fixing problems. We are not just talking about 
it. We are actually doing what we are saying.

The first 100 hours was all about that, Mr. Altmire. It had to be for 
the two of us one of the proudest moments of our life to be here 
joining hands with many of our Republican colleagues and for the first 
time making this place work again. Passing new bills to fund higher 
education, reforming the Medicare prescription drug law, investing in 
stem cell research; doing it with Democrats and Republicans, making 
this place work again.


So here is the thing. We proved we can solve problems. We proved that 
we can work as Republicans and Democrats to fix things. And maybe we 
are confronted with our biggest problem; not just what we have 
uncovered in our veterans' system, what people like you and I have 
known for years, but the greater quagmire which exists in our military 
today in the situation we have got ourselves in Iraq. But we need to 
take both of these on, fix the problems to the extent that we can, and 
then hold people accountable because what we know is that we weren't 
ready for this war. We weren't ready for this war with the equipment, 
the trucks and the kits we needed for our troops. We know that, when 
this war began, we were $56 billion underfunded within the Army for the 
equipment that they needed. We know that, after the invasion, it took 
18 months for American soldiers to receive body armor; 18 months of 
being on the front lines before they got the body armor that they 
needed. And we know the health care system wasn't ready for the legions 
of troops that came back.

I think I shared this on the floor the other night: A group of 
veterans came into my office and shared with me a statistic that was as 
interesting as it was sobering, that in conflicts earlier in this 
century, on average three wounded soldiers came back for every soldier 
that died on the battlefield. Today 16 soldiers come back wounded for 
every soldier that dies on the battlefield. And that is due to some of 
the advances in armor protection equipment. It is also due to the 
miracles of modern medicine and the response time that our medics and 
doctors in the field are able to perform.

But it means that we have more people coming into our hospitals with 
more complex, more lasting injuries. They need better care, and they 
need faster care. And it appears that no one at the outset of this war 
was thinking about this problem ahead of time. They weren't preparing 
our military for battle. They didn't have a plan to occupy that 
country. They didn't think, it seems sometimes, more than a few seconds 
about the political realities that would emerge on the ground as we 
invaded Iraq. And now it turns out they also didn't think about what to 
do with the veterans when they come back.

Mr. Altmire, I never served in the military. I never fired a gun. I 
have never been shot at. I get to serve in this Chamber on a cold night 
like tonight in Washington, DC, in a nice, heated place indoors because 
my contemporaries, my classmates made a different decision. They 
decided to go overseas and protect this Nation. And there isn't a day 
that I get up that I am not grateful for the decision that my friends 
and my relatives and my classmates made to allow me to serve this 
country in a very different manner. So as unfathomable as it is to me 
to think about what it is like to be on the ground in Baghdad today, to 
have veterans comparing their experiences in our own domestic veterans' 
health care system to the situations that they faced on the ground in 
Iraq is unconscionable to me. Think about what it must be like to come 
back to this country maimed, injured, perhaps with legs, arms 
amputated, and to enter a system with flies, with garbage, with 
syringes. I mean, we know what is happening with soldiers coming back 
with PTSD and other mental health issues from what they have seen on 
the battlefield, and to think that we are putting them into a system 
which not only abuses the sense of honor that we should have for those 
that come back. We should be celebrating them rather than putting them 
in these conditions.



But I am sure it aggravates what must be an unbelievably complicated 
transition back to life here in the United States. We need to start 
honoring their service again. And God forbid we ever have to engage in 
another military action in this country again. God forbid we have to 
send our brave young men and women overseas to fight.

You know that in our lifetimes we will see that moment. We hope we 
don't. We hope we are wise enough in this Chamber to prevent another 
foreign engagement from happening, but the chances are that you and I 
may vote sometime during our service here to do this again.

We better get it right that time. We better make the investment up 
front to make sure they are safe when they head over to that 
battlefield, and when they come home, the services are there for them.

We are going to fix it. We are going to fix it and hold people 
accountable, and we are going to do it in that order. The American 
people for a long time maybe didn't have confidence when people stood 
up here and said there is a problem and we are going to do something 
about it. In this Congress, that is going to be our hallmark. We are 
going to be able to go home in the coming weeks and months and tell 
people that what you read about, whether it be in Newsweek or the 
Washington Post, is going to be taken care of.