---
---

# MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH  AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `73f58c7a173472b832874bcf2f2e2487`
`Mr. WICKER — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. WICKER. Madam Speaker, this really is an unprecedented move. We 
were originally told that it would be scheduled for first thing this 
morning. Then it was rescheduled for early this afternoon. And once 
again, the matter was so controversial that it had to be pulled again 
and we find ourselves discussing it now at this moment.

I frankly wish my friend from Wisconsin would pull the motion again, 
because there is only one way to understand this process. This is, as 
the Republican leader said, a political stunt. If it is allowed to 
proceed, the result will be predictable. The President will veto the 
product of this conference committee, because it will attempt to spend 
billions and billions of new dollars on domestic programs we cannot 
afford, just when a balanced budget is within sight again. The 
President will veto the bill, the President's veto will be sustained, 
and we will be back to the drawing board.

While all of this is unfolding, much-needed funds for our veterans 
clinics and for our servicemembers and their families will be delayed, 
not to mention essential funding for our Nation's defense in the global 
war on terror, for our troops in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq who are 
risking their lives for our country even as we speak. These key 
national security expenditures will have to wait even longer than they 
have already waited.

The other result of this process will be just as predictable. Some 
people in this town, in this very House, will have gotten what they 
wanted: more political theater, more attempts to link good policy with 
excessive spending in an attempt to score political points.

Madam Speaker, does the Democratic leadership of this Congress want 
to pass appropriation bills or do they just want to make new campaign 
commercials?

Four and one-half months ago the House of Representatives passed the 
Military Construction-VA bill with an overwhelming 409 votes. The 
Senate passed its version of MilCon-VA with only one dissenting vote on 
September 6, 8 weeks ago. The President has expressed his willingness 
to sign the bill. Mr. Edwards and I, along with our subcommittee, have 
stood ready to go to conference for almost 2 months. Why, other than 
politics, have these funds for military quality of life and for our 
Nation's veterans been delayed?

Mr. Edwards and I, as chairman and ranking member, have worked along 
with our Senate counterparts and our staffs to craft a compromise 
between the two versions of MilCon-VA. Only a few outstanding issues 
remain. We are ready to go with this essential bill. The same is true 
for the Defense appropriations bill.

That means we could have bills on the President's desk within a 
matter of days. Funds for vital infrastructure for our troops, child 
development centers and veterans programs could be in the pipeline 
within a matter of days. Do we really want to hold our present and 
former troops hostage for political games?

So I urge my friends on the other side the aisle to reconsider this 
unprecedented maneuver. Send the bills by regular order according to 
the established rules. Let's get the funds to our troops without 
further delay.