---
---

# None
## `73f666a47d5864d02e3e95a77539c757`
`Mr. DURBIN — 18 April 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we are a little over 100 days into the new 
congressional session. With new leadership, new management, there was 
hope--and still is--that we can find some ways to establish bipartisan 
cooperation. By its nature, the Senate almost requires it. Under Senate 
rules, anything that is serious and important takes 60 votes. In a 
Chamber with 100 Members, that is obviously a supermajority, and that 
requires cooperation. When Senator Johnson has recovered to the point 
that he is back on the Senate floor and we are at full complement, 
Senate Democrats will have 51 votes to the Republicans' 49. This means 
that on any given day, if we are going to pass or consider important 
legislation, it has to be bipartisan. We need help. We need Republicans 
to join with Democrats to bring it to 60 votes. That is the nature of 
the Senate.

Some people, particularly House Members--I used to be one--look at 
this as not only a quaint procedure but in many cases antiquated. I 
disagree. The nature of the Senate is reflected in the wisdom of the 
Founding Fathers who needed to create this body in order to have a U.S. 
Government. When they initially suggested that Congress would reflect 
the population of America, smaller States, such as those represented by 
the Presiding Officer, the State of Rhode Island, said: We don't have a 
chance. We are going to be overwhelmed by the big States such as 
Virginia and Massachusetts. So in their wisdom, they said: In the 
Senate, every State has two Senators, no matter how large or small.

In the Senate, when it came to rules, the rules reflected the same 
feeling, that minority rights would always be respected, that it would 
take a large majority vote to overcome those minority rights; in other 
words, 60 votes. At one time it was 67 votes. That 60-vote margin was 
added in the 1960s. As a result, to achieve anything in the Senate, we 
need to work together.

Unfortunately, in the first 100 days, there have been a few instances 
of cooperation but some other disappointing episodes. When we wanted to 
debate and have a vote about President Bush's proposal to send 20 or 
30,000 more of our best and bravest American soldiers into the war in 
Iraq, when we wanted the Senate to go on record on that issue to debate 
it honestly so the American people and their strong feelings would be 
represented, we were stopped, stopped by the Republican minority. They 
would not allow us to go to the substance of that debate. They didn't 
want the Senate to spend its time considering a resolution going on 
record as to whether we approve or disapprove of the President's 
action.

I personally think the escalation of ground troops in Iraq is the 
wrong decision. This is a civil war, a war between Sunnis and Shias. 
Our sons and daughters are caught in the crossfire of that civil war, a 
war that is generated by a conflict within the Islamic religion that 
dates back 14 centuries. I don't believe sending 20 or 30 or 40,000 
more American soldiers is going to change the conflict. Only the Iraqis 
can change it. I wanted to make that point in the debate and let those 
who defend the President's position to escalate the war make their 
point as well and bring it to a vote. That is what the Senate is 
supposed to be about. But the Republican minority, with the power given 
them under Senate rules, said: No, there will be no debate.

We couldn't find 60 votes to even have a debate on that issue. They 
stopped us. Earlier this week, they stopped us again. What was the 
measure in question? It was the reauthorization of the intelligence 
agencies of the Government. These agencies are critical to our national 
security. Intelligence is the first line of defense when it comes to 
terrorism. Senator Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia is chairman of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee; Senator Chris Bond is the ranking 
Republican. The two of them worked on a bipartisan bill and brought it 
to the Senate floor. There was a lot of give and take. Senator 
Rockefeller acceded to the requests of Senator Bond and vice versa. 
They brought this bill to the floor. For the first time in years, we 
were going to have an authorization bill that addressed some of the 
serious problems of intelligence gathering so that we can be safer. 
What happened? As it turned out, the Republican leadership decided they 
didn't want to have this debate. They didn't want this bill to be 
seriously considered and passed. On two different occasions this week, 
they refused to vote to give us 60 votes so we could consider this bill 
and pass it. We had to put it back on the calendar, take it off the 
floor.

Think about that. In the midst of a war in Iraq and Afghanistan, with 
all of the threats to the United States, a trip to an airport now 
becomes a half-hour commitment. As you take off your shoes and make 
sure your toothpaste is in a plastic bag and all of the things we go 
through that relate to terrorism, the Republican minority decided they 
didn't want us to debate and


bring to a vote intelligence reauthorization. That was their decision.

For the second time, on a critical issue--first on the escalation of 
the troops in Iraq and then on the reauthorization of our intelligence 
agencies--the Republican minority has said: We don't want the debate. 
We don't want the Senate to act. It is within their power. That is what 
the Senate is all about. A minority, in this case 49 Republican 
Senators, was able to stop it.

But that was not the end of it. There was another issue, one that 
many of us consider to be very basic. It relates to the Medicare 
prescription Part D Program. Medicare prescription Part D is a program 
long overdue. When Medicare was created by President Johnson in the 
1960s, it didn't include prescription drugs. Over the years, as more 
and better prescription drugs were discovered and invented and 
marketed, we understood that to keep people healthy, our parents and 
grandparents and disabled people needed access to affordable drugs.

For many years, many of us have supported the idea of including 
prescription drugs in the Medicare plan so seniors could have help in 
paying for them. When the bill came before us to vote on several years 
ago, when the Republicans were in control of this body, we wanted to 
add one provision. The one provision said the Medicare Program could 
bargain for less expensive, more affordable drugs. Private insurance 
companies could do the same, but the Medicare Program could offer 
prescription drugs to seniors on Medicare as one option, and then 
seniors could make a choice. Do they want to go with a private 
insurance company? Do they want to go with some other source for their 
prescription drugs under Medicare? Or do they want to go back to the 
Medicare plan?

Our thinking behind it is sound, because what we said is: We learned 
a lesson at the Veterans' Administration. In the Veterans' 
Administration we learned that to reduce the cost of prescription drugs 
for the men and women who serve in uniform and are now veterans, our 
Veterans' Administration bargains with pharmaceutical companies, and 
they have bargaining power. They buy in bulk. They buy at discount. Our 
veterans benefit from it. They get the best at the lowest prices, and 
it is good for them and for taxpayers.

Why can't our seniors under Medicare have the same opportunity? That 
was the point we wanted to make, a point that said: Medicare should be 
allowed to bargain bulk discounts, low prices for seniors so we can 
give them even a better deal than the current program offers. The 
pharmaceutical companies hate this idea like the devil hates holy 
water. The notion that they would face competition, that they would 
have to give bulk discounts, eats right into their profits, their 
bottom lines, and their CEOs' golden parachutes. They have been 
spending millions of dollars trying to convince America that this kind 
of bulk discount, this effort to have bargaining for lower prices, is 
somehow fundamentally wrong. They have spent a lot of money on it--
full-page ads in newspapers, television advertising to try to convince 
Americans that having some competition when it comes to prescription 
drugs is plain wrong.

They didn't convince many, but they convinced enough, because earlier 
this morning we had a vote as to whether we would move to this proposal 
to allow Medicare to bargain for lower prescription drugs and, once 
again, the Republican minority stopped us. They don't want to have that 
debate. They don't want to face a vote. They want to make sure their 
friends in the pharmaceutical industry don't have to face competition. 
I am sure they feel their position is correct. I happen to believe my 
position is correct.

The nature of debate in the Senate is that we stand and talk and 
ultimately come to a vote. But on three separate occasions now, the 
Republican leadership has stopped the debate, stopped the debate on 
escalating troops in Iraq, when it comes to intelligence 
reauthorization, and when we try to reduce prescription drug prices for 
seniors.

It seems they want to do nothing. They want the Senate to come in, 
collect its paycheck, and go home; make a few speeches on the floor, 
wave a few flags, and head on home.

That is what happened around here for a long time. The do-nothing 
Congress of the last 2 years is the reason the voters came out and 
voted as they did last November. They said: We sent you to Washington 
to do something. We sent you to Washington to address issues that are 
meaningful and important to people across America. One of those issues 
is the war in Iraq. Another issue is homeland security. Certainly 
another issue is the cost of health insurance and the cost of 
prescription drugs. In the Democratic majority, we have tried to come 
to those issues. We have tried to move the debate to those issues. But 
the Republican minority has stopped us time and time again.

Ultimately, they will be held accountable for their strategy. That is 
what elections are all about. But we have a year and a half to go here, 
a year and a half more before another election. Are we going to waste 
all this time? Are we going to spend a little time addressing the 
issues that count: first and foremost, the war, but then keeping 
America safe? How about a national energy policy? Will the Republican 
minority stop us from debating that at a time when we know we are so 
dependent on foreign oil that we are sending hundreds of millions of 
dollars each day to countries around the world that disagree with our 
basic values because they happen to be supplying us with oil?

When it comes to issues such as global warming, will they use the 
same strategy to stop the debate so that for 2 more years things will 
get worse instead of better when it comes to the greenhouse gases and 
the global warming and climate change which we all know is a reality? 
They have the power to do it.

The only thing that can break the grip they have on the agenda and 
calendar of the Senate is if 10 of their Members have the courage to 
break ranks and join us. It is the only way we can come to these 
debates. So far a handful have edged across the line, put the toe in 
the water and said: Well, maybe we are with you on the debate. But it 
is never enough. It is always enough just to have a press release back 
home saying: We tried to help the Democrats--but never enough to get 
the job done. That is what we face.

Now comes this bill before us, the Court Security Improvement Act of 
2007. This bill is the kind of bill which routinely passes in the 
Senate with no debate. The reason is, it isn't debatable. It comes down 
to a question of protecting the men and women who serve in the Federal 
judiciary.

This is an issue which is personal with me. In 2005, one of my close 
personal friends, a woman I appointed to the Federal court in Chicago, 
Joan Lefkow, went through a tragic personal experience. Someone invaded 
her home and murdered her husband and mother. Those killings were 
perpetrated by a disgruntled litigant who had his case dismissed by 
Judge Lefkow. It was an unwelcomed wake-up call for our country. It 
sensitized many of us to the vulnerability of our judges and their 
families.


It was not an isolated incident. Last year, a judge was shot in Reno, 
NV. In Louisville, KY, a man pleaded guilty to threatening to kill the 
Federal judge presiding over the outcome of his arson trial. In March 
2005, three people were killed in an Atlanta courthouse, including a 
county judge. Just yesterday, there were reports that the car and 
garage of an Illinois State court judge on the north side of Chicago 
were damaged by gunshots.

The sad reality is that violence and threats against our judges are 
on the rise. Between 1996 and 2005, the number of threats and 
inappropriate communications toward judges went up dramatically--from 
201 in 1996 to 943 in 2005. There may be many reasons for this 
increased violence against judges, but one of the most regrettable is 
the rise in criticism and condemnation of these fine men and women not 
only in the halls of Congress but on some of the shock radio shows that 
go on and pass as news on some cable channels and radio stations.

Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, a woman I respect, who recently retired 
from the Supreme Court, said recently:




 [T]he breadth and intensity of rage currently being leveled 


 at the judiciary may be unmatched in American history.


It is time for the rage and irresponsible rhetoric to come to an end. 
It is


also time for Congress to step up and increase protection for judges.

In 2005, Senator Obama, my junior colleague from Illinois, and I 
helped obtain an appropriation after the terrible Lefkow incident. We 
wanted to provide enough money so judges would have some basic 
protection in their home.

The bill we vote on today--the Court Security Improvement Act of 
2007--is another important response. It passed the Senate last year on 
two different occasions. The House of Representatives refused to take 
it up. Let me touch on a couple important provisions in this bill, and 
then let me tell you why, at the end of these remarks, we have reached 
another terrible moment when it comes to considering a bill of this 
importance.

First, the bill has new criminal penalties for misusing personal 
information to threaten harm to judges and their families. It expands 
the definition of dangerous weapons that are banned from Federal 
courts. It extends and expands the ability of Federal judges to redact 
personal information from their financial disclosures that might 
endanger themselves or their families. It allocates more resources to 
the U.S. Marshals Service to protect Federal judges. It requires better 
coordination between the Marshals and the Federal judiciary. It 
authorizes State courts to receive Federal grant money to improve 
security. It is essential that we pass this legislation, and it is long 
overdue.

A year ago, on the first anniversary of the murders of her husband 
and mother, Judge Lefkow, of Chicago, released a statement. Here is 
what she said:




 The tragedies which we experienced have necessarily alerted 


 me to the fragility of judicial security. Accordingly, I have 


 made a commitment to all of my judicial sisters and brothers 


 to do all in my power to help improve the safety of all 


 judges in the years ahead. It is my fervent hope that nothing 


 that happened in Chicago and Atlanta last year will ever be 


 repeated.


Those are words we need to take to heart today. I commend Majority 
Leader Harry Reid for bringing up this bill. This Court Security 
Improvement Act is a legacy to the memory of those judges and family 
members whose lives were cut short by tragic, vicious acts of violence.

Judges should always feel secure in their courtrooms and safe at 
home. We owe it to them and their families to do everything we can to 
protect them.

As I said before, this is the kind of bill which Members would come 
to the floor and make a few statements on, such as I made, and then 
pass by a voice vote, for obvious reasons. Who is going to argue 
against this bill? Who believes our judges should not be safe in their 
courtrooms and at home? We cannot ignore the obvious. There are dangers 
to their lives, and we should act on them. But what has happened in the 
Senate from a procedural viewpoint reflects the argument I made 
earlier. A Senator on the Republican side, within his rights under the 
Senate rule, objected to this bill. Well, it was not enough he 
objected--he can do that; he could vote against it if that is his 
choosing--but he demanded we have what we call a cloture motion, that 
we postpone this bill for 30 hours before we take it up and consider 
it. That is his right. I will fight for his right to do so. But it 
reflects a mindset among some on the other side that is not 
constructive and not positive.

Hard as it is to believe, there are some who think the bill I 
described is an insidious part of the procedure of the Senate, and they 
call it an earmark--an earmark. This is not the kind of Jack Abramoff 
earmark where a fat cat lobbyist on K Street in Washington inserts a 
provision in the bill for one of his clients, which ends up with 
millions of dollars for his client and a fat fee for him to take home. 
Nothing in this bill inserts a dollar for any private entity, nor does 
it create any opportunity for a lobbyist to get fat and sassy. Yet some 
on the other side of the aisle are arguing this bill has to be stopped 
because it is an earmark. An earmark? An earmark to create a program to 
provide money for courts to make them safer? An earmark to increase the 
penalties for those who would harm our judges and their families?

They have corrupted the word ''earmark'' to the point where they 
think everything is an earmark. This bill is not. This bill emerged 
from the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which I serve, with strong 
bipartisan support. Instead of enacting it and moving on to other 
important bills, we have been bogged down again by procedural hurdles 
that are thrown at us from the other side of the aisle--something as 
basic and as fundamental as this bill.

Now, I am glad Republican Senators joined us in trying to stop this 
one Senator who believes he sees an earmark behind every bill and every 
bush. But the point is, if we are going to be constructive in the 
Senate--whether it is on the war or intelligence or reducing the cost 
of prescription drugs or protecting judges--we need much more 
bipartisan cooperation. As I said earlier, I will fight to the death to 
defend my colleagues' rights under the rules of the Senate. Those rules 
have been used by me and by other Senators, and that is why they are 
there. But common sense should prevail. I think the common good should 
prevail, and we should come together, Democrats and Republicans, 
and compromise and cooperate. That is one thing the American people are 
begging for: Start addressing the real problems, some that affect only 
a small number of Americans, as important as they may be, such as 
members of the Federal judiciary, and others that affect us all, such 
as the war in Iraq.


Isn't it time we put behind the do-nothing Congress, the do-nothing 
mentality, and start out on a new day in this Congress, trying to find 
bipartisan ways to cooperate and solve the real problems that face our 
country?

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.