# None
## `73f7cbf885b4b6d175a77145357224c9`
`Mr. BACHUS — 10 August 2010`

---


Mr. BACHUS. Madam Speaker, it is my honor to express strong support 
for the Spirit of '45 Day celebrations that will be occurring 
throughout our country, including at the Alabama National Cemetery in 
my district.

On August 14, 1945, World War II officially ended, marking a victory 
for the cause of freedom over tyranny in the world. The Americans who 
served us on both the battlefield and the home front deserve our 
lasting gratitude. History will forever celebrate the men and women of 
the ''Greatest Generation'' who endured the Great Depression, preserved 
democracy, and rebuilt the postwar world, creating examples of service 
that continue to inspire and sustain our nation.

Keep the Spirit of '45 Alive is a non-profit grassroots campaign to 
encourage Americans to commemorate the 65th Anniversary of the end of 
World War II by holding events and inspiring young children to gather 
personal recollections of August 14, 1945 from family members and 
friends.

Their goal is to establish a permanent National Day of Remembrance to 
the legacy of service of the greatest generation so that their example 
of commitment to community and country will continue to provide 
inspiration now and in the future.

This commemoration will encourage our young people to learn valuable 
lessons from their elders about overcoming adversity through self-
sacrifice, courage, perseverance and service to others. During my 
meetings, soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan have often told me how 
they were inspired by the service of their fathers and grandfathers.

It is my hope that Keep the Spirit of '45 Alive will serve as an 
example to Americans of how we always come together with a shared sense 
of national unity and purpose during challenging times in our nation's 
history.

Therefore, I would like to provide my heartfelt endorsement for the 
Spirit of '45 Day celebration at the Alabama National Veterans Cemetery 
on Saturday, August 14, 2010.
