---
---

# TRIBUTE TO GANTT'S EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION
## `73fca2b1b7df36b52a8fa68fc179a1b0`
`Mrs. CAPITO — 11 September 2007`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Madam Speaker, I am proud to recognize Gantt's 
Excavation and Construction of Martinsburg, West Virginia; a recent 
recipient of the 2007 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom 
Award.

The Defense Employer Support Freedom Award honors businesses and 
organizations for their support of their employees who are enlisted in 
the National Guard and Reserves. Gantt's Excavation and Construction 
was among 15 honorees from across the Nation to receive the prestigious 
award. These employers have gone far above the required laws to 
accommodate their employees who must fulfill their military duties that 
arise throughout times of national need. They must often fulfill 
weekend and summer training, possible deployments and contingency 
operations.

I am proud to highlight the accomplishments of Gannt's Excavation and 
Construction, who represents the best of America's small businesses for 
its patriotism and dedication to our Nation's Armed Services. The 
business was established 35 years ago by Frederick Gantt and is 
currently operated by his three children, Daniel Gantt, Eric Gantt, and 
Janesa Smith. Janesa's husband, Tim Smith of the West Virginia Army 
National Guard of Wheeling recently returned home from a deployment to 
Iraq on July 27, 2007, and is employed by Gantt's Excavation and 
Construction. The business is located in Inwood, West Virginia, where 
they employ a staff of 65.

Madam Speaker, in this time of national sacrifice when the men and 
women of our Nation's armed services are being called to duty, it is an 
honor to recognize the Gantt family and Gantt's Excavation and 
Construction who have helped our enlisted men and women succeed both on 
the job and in the military.
