---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `740a7fe09c156086c02cece63ac1a2eb`
`Mr. PERRIELLO — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. PERRIELLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as someone who was very 
critical from the beginning of the Iraq war but nonetheless am 
supportive of the supplemental before us.

I believe we stand at a promising moment, a promising moment in terms 
of the trends in Iraq and a promising moment in terms of having a 
leader in the White House who understands the challenges before us to 
get Afghanistan right.

Having been on the ground there in previous years, I can assure you 
that the questions that were not being asked before are being asked 
now. It's not going to be an easy struggle there. But I say to my more 
progressive colleagues who are very critical of this that we should 
give ourselves a little credit. The era of arbitrary power in the Bush 
doctrine really ended with the '06 election. A new period of smart 
power, led with General Petraeus and Secretary Gates, has moved us in a 
direction of real national security, not Hollywood security. This is an 
important move, and it's a move that continues today.

That change was only solidified by the 2008 election. We have people 
who are deadly serious about getting national security right in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, who understand the military's job is to back up a 
political solution and are looking for that, who understand that we 
cannot solve the situation in Afghanistan without dealing with 
corruption internally.