---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `740a0bb1891d53b67e6ef69016de52d4`
`Ms. WATERS — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, today I'm proud to join with a unified 
Democratic Caucus to cast my vote in support of H.R. 4156, the Orderly 
and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act. This legislation 
marks the first time redeployment language has been attached to 
funding, and includes the strongest worded language to date, by stating 
Congress's explicit commitment to end the war in Iraq as safely and 
quickly as possible and bring our troops home.

The letter my colleagues Lynn Woolsey, Barbara Lee and I sent to 
President Bush stating that we would only support funding for the 
redeployment of our troops has grown from 70 to 92


signatories. As the letter stated, and as the title of this legislation 
echoes, we choose to support our military and look out for the best 
interests of this country by funding an orderly and responsible 
redeployment from Iraq.

While this bill is far from perfect, there's a lot in this bill to be 
proud of. This bill requires the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq 
within 30 days. It prohibits the deployment of U.S. troops not deemed 
fully trained, and it effectively bans the awful practice of 
waterboarding by any affiliate of a U.S. agency. I applaud the shared 
commitment of the Democratic Members in both the House and Senate to 
end the war in Iraq.

I share the public's dismay at the slow pace of Congress's action to 
end President Bush's failed war. It is, of course, the administration, 
not Congress, who ultimately deserves the blame for this terrible war. 
Before every major debate on the Iraq war, like clockwork, President 
Bush fires up the propaganda machine to twist reality and obscure the 
facts on the ground.

Those who stand in the way of real change in Iraq must be held 
accountable. They must not be allowed to quietly throw wrenches in the 
gears of change slowly rotating within this country.

A large and growing majority of Americans now believe it was a 
mistake to invade Iraq and that Congress should force a change in the 
President's irresponsible policies.