# RECOGNIZING THE TREMENDOUS SERVICE THAT MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES HAVE  GIVEN TO THE NATION
## `740c30f646ea4b20e66be40e70ec90cf`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 8 April 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise today in support of House Resolution 1020, recognizing the 
tremendous service that members of our Armed Forces have provided to 
the country, especially those who have been wounded in combat. I thank 
our colleague from Vermont (Mr. Welch) for introducing this resolution.

Soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and their families are making 
extraordinary sacrifices in service to our country. Over 4,500 
servicemembers have made the ultimate sacrifice in Operations Enduring 
Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Nearly 32,000 servicemembers have been 
wounded, of which a little over 17,000 have returned to duty.

Today, servicemembers have an unprecedented chance of survival, 
unlike those who had similar wounds in Vietnam and the Second World 
War. The medical advances that have taken place on the current 
battlefield have made these significant achievements possible.

However, while members are surviving their injuries and wounds at an 
unprecedented rate, they are coming home with more complex 
psychological injuries. These individuals who have honorably served our 
Nation may need medical care and assistance for the rest of their 
lives.

House Resolution 1020 commits this Congress to ensuring that these 
brave, wounded warriors receive the best medical care available, and 
commends all Americans who volunteer to support these wounded warriors 
and their families.

So, Madam Speaker, I again commend our colleague from Vermont (Mr. 
Welch) for his introduction of this resolution, and I urge my 
colleagues to support its passage.

I reserve the balance of my time.