---
---

# None
## `742baf216dc492d96baa3614a04ebe54`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise today in support of and as a 
cosponsor of amendment No. 2012. I salute Senator Webb and my 
colleagues who joined in this effort which would set a standard for how 
much time our troops get at home between deployments. We owe it to our 
troops and to our families to have a rational and reasonable troop 
rotation policy that allows our fighting forces to be at their best.

The ever-quickening operational tempo over the last 4 years of combat 
in Iraq and Afghanistan has stretched our military beyond reason and 
endangered our national security. Continuing to shorten the time our 
troops


are able to spend at home while extending deployments is simply not a 
sustainable policy. It is bad for operational readiness, it is bad for 
retention, it is bad for morale, and it is bad for the health of our 
military members and their families. We must do better to protect our 
national security, and this amendment moves us in the right direction.

In the time I have spent with our servicemembers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, at Fort Carson and at the many military installations 
around Colorado, I have always found our servicemembers to be serving 
proudly and honorably. They rarely look at you and talk about the 
sacrifices they are being asked to make or of the effects that failed 
policies are having on them and on their families. But you can still 
see in their eyes the evidence of the strain that the operational tempo 
is placing on them and on their families. You see the strain at 
installations all around the country.

In my State at Fort Carson where I have visited often over the last 
several years, the families of the 2nd Brigade of the 2nd Infantry 
Division learned earlier this year that their soldiers' tours of duty 
in Iraq are being extended by 3 months, so that they will stay in the 
theater for a total of 15 months rather than the 12 months they 
anticipated when they went to Iraq. The 2nd Brigade is currently today 
in a block-by-block battle with insurgents in eastern Baghdad. The 2nd 
Brigade lost 6 soldiers over the Fourth of July week, and they have 
lost 37 since they arrived in Iraq last October. The brigade was 
supposed to be returning this fall. They were supposed to be returning 
this fall, but now it will be winter before they might be able to come 
home.

The 3rd Brigade, also at Fort Carson, returned from Iraq late last 
fall after a full year deployment. They could well be sent back to Iraq 
before they have the time they need here to recuperate, to train, and 
to prepare for a new deployment. They deserve some consistency and 
certainty in their deployment cycle.

We see the impacts of the current operational tempo in our Guard and 
Reserve units as well. We have come to rely on the Guard and Reserve to 
an unprecedented degree in Iraq. At one point in 2005, the Army 
National Guard contributed nearly half of the combat brigades on the 
ground in Iraq. These troops, once thought of as ''weekend warriors,'' 
have been shouldering burdens similar to their Active-Duty counterparts 
and are facing the same extended deployments and the same shortened 
time at home.

We are quickly learning about the impacts of this operational tempo 
on the health and well-being of our troops. The impacts and the facts 
here are beyond dispute. A study at Fort Carson showed that around 18 
percent of returning soldiers had traumatic brain injuries. These are 
soldiers who have come back to Fort Carson after having served in Iraq. 
They need time to recover from those injuries. A recent service-wide 
report of the DOD's Task Force on Mental Health showed that 38 percent 
of soldiers, 31 percent of marines, and 49 percent of the National 
Guard report psychological problems following combat deployments. The 
prevalence of psychological problems increases with increased frequency 
of deployment and with longer deployments. Our troops need more time at 
home to recuperate and readjust with their families.

Amendment No. 2012 is a sensible and much needed rotation policy for 
our troops. I can think of no better author for this amendment than 
Senator Jim Webb who has had a long and storied history of service to 
our country and who has an intimate understanding of the military and 
knowing what it takes to have a strong military for the United States 
of America.

For our regular forces, the amendment requires that if a unit or a 
member is deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan, they will have equal time at 
home before being redeployed. That is to say, if they are deployed for 
6 months, they must be at home for at least 6 months before being sent 
back into combat. For the National Guard and Reserve, no unit or member 
could be redeployed to Iraq or Afghanistan within 3 years of their 
previous deployment.

The amendment includes an important provision that I hope my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle pay attention to. It is an 
important provision that allows the President to waive these 
limitations. The President can waive these limitations if he certifies 
to Congress that the deployment is necessary in response to an 
operational emergency posing a vital threat to the national security of 
the United States of America. So the President can waive the 
requirements of this readiness legislation we are proposing in the 
Chamber today. Another waiver would authorize the Chief of Staff of 
each branch to approve requests by volunteers to deploy.


This is an amendment which supports our troops and their families who 
have been called upon to make ever-increasing sacrifices in the course 
of this war. It is an amendment which I ask my colleagues to support 
and which I hope we will pass on behalf of our troops and their 
families.

I wish to conclude by simply stating my appreciation to the leaders 
who have put together the DOD authorization legislation which is before 
the Senate. The Senator from Michigan, the chairman of the Armed 
Services Committee, Carl Levin, is often referred to by me and I know 
many of the Members of this Chamber, as a Senator's Senator because he 
is one of those people who are here for absolutely the right reason--
their devotion to this country. His standing up for our military is 
something which is a great example of a Senator who puts purpose above 
the politics that sometimes typify Washington perhaps too much of the 
time. He, in his work with the distinguished Senator from Virginia, Mr. 
Warner, who was also the key coauthor of this legislation, exemplifies 
the best of what there is here in this Senate Chamber. I just wanted to 
publicly state my appreciation to Senator Levin and his staff and to 
Senator Warner and his staff for the great work they have done on this 
legislation.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.