---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `742fabf0f46c5e84a68601053671352d`
`Mr. FRANKEN — 26 January 2010`

---


Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, today I want to talk about jobs. Lately 
it seems that everyone says they want to talk about jobs and that we 
will get around to tackling jobs next week or the week after. I would 
like to kick off the discussion today, right now, and follow it up with 
what I plan to do about jobs. I would not be the first to observe that 
times are tough right now. Our Nation is still reeling from the most 
disastrous economic collapse in a generation. Failed regulatory 
policies--or really, just deregulation--bad lending practices, and Wall 
Street recklessness all contributed to the current crisis, double-digit 
unemployment for the first time in 25 years. Millions of American 
families are relying on their unemployment benefits to put food on the 
table and to pay their rent. Some are looking down at their final 
unemployment check, wondering what they are going to do next. For every 
single job opening, there are six unemployed workers. Too many people 
are left without options or hope in this dismal job market.

In the fall of 2008, when Wall Street's financial institutions 
started falling like dominos, our regulators told us: Congress has to 
pass TARP now or we face total economic ruin. This seemed to get 
Congress moving. It passed legislation in a matter of days. My feeling 
is that the American people, especially those folks out of work, need 
their advocates to say: We have to do this now. Every Senator who has 
heard from their constituents about the depressing job market, about 
the day-to-day struggles of being unemployed, should be on the floor 
insisting that we act now; that if we don't act now and act boldly and 
broadly, Main Street will continue to suffer, and that this 
unemployment crisis we are in will drag on and on.

The House has already acted. They passed a robust jobs package last 
December that provided needed funds to States and localities to keep 
teachers, firefighters, and police officers on the job. It provided 
funds for public infrastructure projects. These are all vital elements 
to a successful jobs creation package.

In addition to these fundamentals, the Senate has the opportunity to 
put forward new ideas for job creation. Today I am introducing my 
proposal, the SEED Act, Strengthening our Economy through Employment 
Development, SEED. We have seen Cash for Clunkers. We have talked about 
Cash for Caulkers. Now I am proposing cash for jobs. The SEED Act is 
modeled after a program we used for several years in Minnesota during 
the recession of the 1980s. By all accounts, it was extremely 
successful. Minnesota's program got over 7,400 people back to work in 
its first 6 months and created nearly 15,000 permanent, long-term jobs. 
It did that at a much lower cost per job than the stimulus package this 
body passed last year.

The SEED Act will incentivize rapid job creation by offering small 
and medium-size companies and nonprofits a direct wage subsidy to hire 
new workers and expand their operations. Small businesses are the 
driving force behind our economy. We all know that. They want to grow. 
But many of them need an added infusion of capital since TARP hasn't 
trickled down to them. Administered on a first-come-first-serve basis, 
these subsidies will provide 50 percent of wages of newly hired workers 
and will be disbursed through the already existing Workforce Investment 
Act system. Using this existing system will minimize the bureaucracy 
that plagues so many new initiatives. Additionally, employers who hire 
recently returned Iraq and Afghanistan vets would be eligible for a 60-
percent subsidy. The subsidy would be available for a 12-month period, 
and the employer would commit to keeping the worker on for an 
additional 3 months after the subsidized year.

This model proved highly effective and efficient in Minnesota. Jim 
Glowacki is one of my constituents. He used Minnesota's program in the 
1980s. After he lost his job, he decided to start his own business. He 
had few resources and little ability to borrow money. He used 
Minnesota's program, which was called MEED, to hire his first two 
employees. Now his company, the JPG Group, employs 17 full-time workers 
and has an annual payroll of over $800,000. His story epitomizes the 
incredible potential for this approach to spur job creation.

The second component of the SEED Act is to direct grants to States, 
localities, and tribes to fund green jobs; Providing funds to retrofit 
public buildings. In addition to creating green jobs, these retrofits 
will increase energy efficiency, decreasing our dependence on foreign 
oil and saving taxpayers money. These are public buildings. Too many of 
our public buildings, public housing, libraries, and schools are 
becoming outdated and don't utilize the green technologies available


today. There are many skilled workers currently on the bench who 
already have the training they need to immediately get to work on these 
projects. These new projects will increase demand for energy-efficient 
windows and doors and heating systems and insulation, providing a boost 
to our Nation's stalled manufacturing sector. Some of you may not know 
this, but Minnesota is the Silicon Valley of windows. We are home to 
the Nation's leaders in energy-efficient windows which makes some sense 
given our winters. Retrofitting public buildings is a win for 
everyone--for workers, localities, taxpayers, manufacturing, and the 
environment. This is a win-win-win-win-win, I think. Windows, too. If 
we reallocate $10 billion from the TARP program and pass this proposal 
into law, we have the potential of creating up to 500,000 jobs, and 
quickly.

Getting people back to work will ease the burden on public benefit 
programs like such as employment and COBRA subsidies. Many employers 
will convert their participating workers into permanent employees, 
setting them up for a long-term career. Minnesotans have stressed to me 
how efficiently this program worked in our State and that it provides 
an excellent return on investment. They have worked tirelessly to 
demonstrate the benefits of this type of bold proposal. I thank them 
for collaborating with me on this important piece of legislation. More 
than 50 Minnesota organizations, companies, and chambers of commerce 
have come out in support.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a list of these 
organizations.