---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `7441668efea9eee0e7fda4912d806ac2`
`Mr. WARNER — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I compliment my distinguished colleague 
for his remarks. I am proud to follow and likewise indicate my 
unqualified support for General Petraeus, to wish him well, and I hope 
he succeeds. We had a thorough hearing in the Armed Services Committee. 
I wish to compliment our new chairman, Senator Levin, and the ranking 
member, Senator McCain, for the speed and efficiency with which they 
managed to get this nomination before the Senate for confirmation.

We have also pending resolutions to address the situation in Iraq, 
most specifically our new strategy. I simply say to our leadership, I 
hope we can address those resolutions at the earliest possible date 
because our forces are engaged in combat as we speak here this morning, 
and we certainly do not wish to have debate any way construed as less 
than full support for what they are endeavoring to achieve. We wish 
them well, and their beloved families here at home, in these perilous 
days.

I have concurred steadily, steadfastly in the President's decision--
and it is an absolutely correct position. We cannot let Iraq fail, fail 
in the sense to lose the sovereignty they have gained through hard-
earned elections and the opportunity for this Nation to emerge as a 
constructive partner toward world peace. Therefore, we must press on. 
But I think it is incumbent upon the Congress to provide its views. The 
President specifically asked, if there were suggestions, forward them, 
speak them, and I and others, in a matter of clear conscience, have 
done just that. We shall see what evolves from the resolutions now 
pending and possibly other suggestions that could be brought forth by 
colleagues in the days to come in the Senate. I do once again urge that 
we address it as expeditiously as the joint leadership can determine.

Yesterday, the Armed Services Committee had a hearing. We had the 
distinguished former Secretary of Defense, Mr. Perry; Ambassador Ross, 
who is a renowned expert on that region of the world, the Middle East; 
and the former Vice Chief of the U.S. Army, now retired, General Keane. 
It was excellent testimony. I wish to pick up on one thing General 
Keane addressed.

I go back to the President's remarks when he spoke to the Nation on 
January 10. He said:




 Now let me explain the main elements of this effort: The 


 Iraq government will appoint a military commander and two 


 deputy commanders for their capital. The Iraqi government 


 will deploy Iraqi Army and National Police brigades across 


 Baghdad's nine districts. When these forces are fully 


 deployed,




 there will be 18 Iraqi Army and National Police brigades 


 committed to the effort, along with local police. These Iraqi 


 forces will operate from local police stations--conducting 


 patrols and setting up checkpoints and going door-to-door to 


 gain the trust of the Baghdad residents.



 This is a strong commitment. But for it to succeed, our 


 commanders say the Iraqis will need our help. So America will 


 change our strategy to help the Iraqis carry out their 


 campaign to put down sectarian violence and bring security to 


 the people of Baghdad. This will require increasing American 


 force levels. So I've committed more than 20,000 additional 


 American troops to Iraq. The vast majority--five 


 brigades--will be deployed to Baghdad. These troops will 


 work alongside Iraqi units and be embedded in their 


 formations. Our troops will have a well-defined mission: 


 to help Iraqis clear and secure neighborhoods, to help 


 them protect the local population, and to help ensure that 


 the Iraqi forces left behind are capable of providing the 


 security that Baghdad needs.


I say most respectfully, this poses a command structure, a dual one, 
of Iraqi commanders and U.S. commanders, which is unique. 
Traditionally, American forces operating in military campaigns have a 
unified command. There is the commander, and it goes right on down to 
the lieutenant, the head of the patrols, and the platoons. I think this 
will require further definition, further study.

I bring to the attention of our distinguished nominee, General 
Petraeus, the testimony of General Keane yesterday where, in the course 
of a colloquy with me and I think Senator Levin and Senator McCain--
and, indeed, I remember the Senator from Rhode Island--we were quite 
concerned about how this unique command and control would work. General 
Keane concluded his testimony, in response to a question I posed, by 
urging General Petraeus early on to devote some attention to this 
question of how this sort of joint command and control is going to 
operate.

On the battlefield, decisions must be made in a matter of seconds, 
from the platoon level often right up the chain of command. We cannot 
have finger-pointing. We cannot have a mission where the Iraqi 
lieutenant says we should go left, the American embedded officer or 
whatever command America has in that situation says go right, and the 
mission not achieve its goal and then the finger-pointing as to which 
officer was correct and who was right and who was wrong. We cannot have 
that in this situation. It is going to be an extremely complex mission.

Yes, I have put forward, along with other colleagues, recommendations 
of how possibly this operation could be conducted with few American 
forces, and specifically our resolution says the rules of engagement of 
the forces--that is standard military technology--should have some 
specificity, hopefully saying: Wherever possible, the Iraqis will bear 
the brunt of the sectarian violence. I am very concerned about the 
American GI being thrust in the middle of the violence that really has 
root causes that go back 1,000 years to the divisions of thought 
between Iraqis as to whether they are Sunnis or Shias. It seems to me 
that Iraqi forces who have the language capability, who understand the 
cultural differences, are far better qualified than the American GI to 
do this.

Also, we have another document which was put out which explains the 
operations. It lists the President's priorities. It clearly says Iraqis 
will be in the lead and on the point. This is a White House document 
issued here in the last few days:




 The President's New Strategy is Rooted in Six Fundamental 


 Elements: Let the Iraqis take the lead.


That has to be well defined and well understood. I commend the 
President for putting the emphasis on having the Iraqis do that.

So I hope we can go about our debate in an orderly way at the 
earliest possible time. I urge Members to be cautious as we proceed. 
The feelings on this are quite intense, as they should be, because this 
is one of the most pivotal, one of the most important decisions I have 
seen come before this body in my now 29th year in the Senate. I hope we 
conduct it with sincerity and dignity and huge respect among colleagues 
with regard to our differences. I speak for myself and I think those 
other nine individuals who worked with me--Senator Bill Nelson, Senator 
Susan Collins--this is a truly bipartisan effort.

Whatever we conclude here in the Senate, it is my fervent hope that 
it reflects a feeling of bipartisanship because therein is how best we 
can help the American public understand this complex situation, to give 
their public support. They are strongly behind the troops now. We want 
to get them to have a better understanding and a greater confidence in 
this new revised strategy going forward. This can best be achieved at 
the highest level of bipartisanship we can obtain here on these serious 
issues.

I see the distinguished chairman here. I yield the floor.