---
---

# HEALTH CARE REFORM
## `74432e289530b12f973e501b6f3b1dc6`
`Mr. AKIN — 23 September 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. I thank my very good friend from the State next-door to the 
State of Missouri. I thank him for his common sense.

I also thank my good friend from Arizona, a fellow member of the 
Armed Services Committee. He is both a statesman and is very good from 
an engineering point of view with the details of what is going on.

I'd like to just try and say similar things but in a little bit more 
of a net fashion because he was so scholarly about it.

Basically, what happened was the Obama administration made a 
decision, which was announced Friday, that they're abandoning missile 
defense in Eastern Europe. Those locations are chosen because 
of physics and geometry to protect Western Europe and the United States 
from a possible launch from Iran.


Now, when you talk about missiles, it isn't too complicated. You've 
got little ones, medium-sized ones and great big ones. The way you stop 
great big ones, which we call intercontinental ballistic missiles--and 
they have three stages, and they go very high and very fast--is with 
other big, fast missiles called ground-based.

The proposal was to put defensive locations in a couple of Eastern 
European states, the Czech Republic, among others, and to provide 
ourselves with a defense. The most fundamental purpose of a civil 
government is to protect their citizens, particularly to protect 
millions of citizens in the face of somebody who says, We're going to 
get you. They're building weapons that can only be used for that 
purpose. Nuclear bombs are not used to power a power plant. They're 
used to blow people up.

So we have an administration which has stepped away from the 
fundamental purpose of any government to protect its citizens. So this 
is a regular head-scratcher of a decision. Not only that, but we 
betrayed the people who politically put their necks on the line with 
their constituents and with their citizens, making a controversial 
decision in Europe to be able to be part of this missile defense.

This was Ronald Reagan's dream, and I don't see how anybody could 
have trouble with the idea of trying to protect oneself against 
somebody who is trying to ''nuke ya.'' I mean, to me, that just defies 
common sense.

So what is going on here is we've seen the Obama administration 
stepping away from the requirement to defend ourselves. President Bush 
did the heavy lifting. He went into Europe, talked to the Russians, and 
told them, You've got 6 months, and we're going to develop missile 
defense. Everybody said you can't do it. The Democrats said, It's too 
expensive and you can't do it. We developed the technology, and we did 
it.

Not only did we hit a missile with a missile, but we have 
demonstrated it time after time after time. At incredibly high speeds, 
we hit a spot on a missile with a missile. We can do that. We have the 
technical ability to do it and, yet, no will to follow through.



I don't understand that. What frightens me particularly, gentleman, 
is this decision is not made in a vacuum. It is a pattern that we are 
seeing on the Armed Services Committee and things, some of these things 
that from a security point of view we can hardly talk about.

But this is not one decision by itself. We are also seeing a very 
strong weakening of resolve in dealing with what's going on in 
Afghanistan. Our troops on the ground are sending us signals, hey, 
guys, we are going to have to go out and get it. This isn't going to be 
easy. This is one of these, like Iraq, it's going to be one of these 
insurgent-like conflicts. It is going to take some time and effort and 
enough people to get it. We are seeing a waffling on the part of the 
administration in the face of the challenges facing us in Afghanistan.

On a third point, which I would perhaps get in an argument with my 
very good friend from Arizona, that there is something even more 
upsetting to me, and that is the fact that Americans offensive 
capability has been based for many decades on the idea of a triad; that 
is big missiles that we launch from the land, big missiles that we 
launch from submarines. The third leg of the triad is a bomber, a 
bomber that can go over some potential enemy's territory with impunity 
and bomb them. With that offensive capability, we can live in peace, 
because we have no intent of wanting to drop missiles or bombs on 
anybody.

But what has happened is this administration is walking away from one 
leg of the triad. I know my dear friend on Armed Services knows what I 
am talking about. I have to be careful about what I can say and not.

But this is the bomber leg. Our bombers are currently old, some of 
them 50 years old. It is important that we do the planning now to 
develop the technology and the aircraft to maintain that leg. That also 
is being cut by the Obama administration, and that's something that has 
not received hardly any public attention. But this is a big deal, as 
big a deal as cutting missile defense.

So this is a pattern, a pattern of not funding national defense, not


prioritizing the protection of our citizenry, and I am very 
uncomfortable with it.

I would like toss those thoughts out for a little discussion.