---
---

# HONORING AMERICAN TROOPS WHO DIED ON D-DAY
## `7444fb8ce4baa694b067086286d62bdb`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 1251, a resolution to recognize and thank the men


and women of our Armed Forces that participated in the D-day invasion 
on June 6, 1944 at Normandy, France during World War II.

June 6, 2010, marked the 66th Anniversary of Operation Overlord, the 
D-day invasion at Normandy. On that fateful day, 160,000 Allied 
troops--31,000 Americans--landed on a heavily fortified 50-mile stretch 
of beach at Normandy. General Dwight D. Eisenhower called the operation 
a crusade in which ''we will accept nothing less than full victory,'' 
and he was certainly correct in that statement. More than 5,000 ships 
and 13,000 aircraft supported the D-day invasion, and by day's end on 
June 6, the Allies gained a foot-hold in Normandy. However, this 
success bore a heavy cost--more than 9,000 Allied Soldiers were killed 
or wounded--but more than 100,000 soldiers began the march across 
Europe to defeat Adolf Hitler.

With a deep sense of appreciation, I would like to express my 
gratitude as well as the gratitude of the people of Georgia's Eleventh 
Congressional District to the brave individuals who acted heroically on 
D-day when they landed at Normandy and took control of the Axis 
opposition, inevitably leading to the end of World War II. I commend 
the members of our Armed Forces for their leadership and valor in this 
operation that led to Allied victory and an end to Nazi oppression in 
Europe.

Madam Speaker, let us not forget the brave men and women who made the 
ultimate sacrifice on D-day and gave their lives for the freedom that 
we, as Americans, enjoy every single day. The nearly 10,000 graves in 
Colleville-sur-Mer, the largest United States cemetery in Northern 
France, appropriately all face west toward the United States, 
symbolizing our deep appreciation and eternal memory of the heroes that 
gave their lives for liberty. Indeed, the democracy on display here 
today in this chamber is a testament to the courage and dedication of 
the United States Armed Forces. The sacrifice of lives for the cause of 
American liberty will never be forgotten and should never be taken for 
granted.

Let us also make certain that we remember those individuals who are 
in harm's way today in Iraq and Afghanistan. Members of our Armed 
Forces are giving their best effort--day in and day out--to keep 
America safe at home and abroad through the Global War on Terror. They 
have also sacrificed to secure liberty and democracy for other nations 
and people who desire to be freed from political oppression and given 
an opportunity for self-determination.

I believe that the brave men and women who sacrifice for our present 
freedoms deserve our fullest support. Our nation's service men and 
women represent the best our country has to offer, and they must be 
treated with the respect and honor they deserve. As we ask these 
courageous soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines--and their families--
to do more and more, it's only right we continue doing all we can for 
them. Recognizing the success of our members of the United States Armed 
Forces who participated in the invasion of Normandy on D-day is just 
one small reminder of the superior job our troops do at home and 
abroad, and it is my hope that we will continue to do all we can for 
the members of our Armed Forces.