---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `744acb58665cefc1986a499e259f0301`
`Mr. LINDER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. LINDER. I thank my friend for yielding.

It has been interesting to listen to this debate over several days. 
Two thoughts stand out. One side says nonbinding resolutions achieve 
nothing and insult the troops. The other side has retired to opinion 
polls. The American people want to end this cost of human and financial 
treasure. They said so in the last election.

Thank God John Adams never consulted public opinion polls. There was 
never a time when more than a third of our Nation was in favor of 
independence and freedom. Thomas Paine said, ''If there must be 
trouble, let it be in my day, that my child may have peace.''

World War I was not America's war, no one attacked us; but an attack 
was made on freedom, and we responded. The doubters wondered why we 
would spend money on a war so far from our shores which didn't threaten 
us. The doughboys at Vimmy Ridge knew why they were there.

Hitler didn't attack us, he didn't even threaten us; he threatened 
all that freedom meant to the world. And while we were engaged in 
Southeast Asia after Pearl Harbor, we still sent troops across the 
channel on D Day. Many mistakes were made. Troops drowned before 
getting to the beach. Support aircraft bombed the wrong areas. 9,386 
Americans died in the Battle of Normandy and are buried there on that 
hill.

But the Boys of Pointe Du Hoc climbed that ridge under withering 
machine gun fire. They silenced the machine guns, took out the 
embankments and walked across Europe, and in 11 months Europe was free. 
We then spent billions of dollars to rebuild a free Europe.

After World War II, we spent 50 years in a war against an idea. It 
was a battle of the two great religions, communism and freedom. When 
Whittaker Chambers left communism for freedom, he told his wife that he 
feared that he was moving to the losing side. He knew that communism 
could not survive if its people believed in a higher faith; he 
concluded that freedom could not survive if they did not. He had become 
a believer; he was unsure if we remained believers.

Many of those Cold War years were not pretty. Between 1970 and 1980, 
the Soviets increased their influence in Cuba, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, 
Nicaragua, Grenada, Mozambique, Angola, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, South 
Yemen, Libya, Iraq and Syria. We watched and were timid. We even had 
Members of this very body go to some of those nations' dictators to 
apologize for our defense of what we believed; we believed in freedom.

When Israel watched its athletes murdered at Munich, we urged 
caution. When terrorists continued to kill Israelis, we continued to 
urge caution. For 21 years we urged that great friend of ours not to 
respond in kind. We were timid. After the attacks began against 
America, beginning with the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Centers, we 
remained timid. We chose not to engage all of the opportunities we had 
to be bold. In the face of a declared war against our government and 
our people, we were timid.

And then September 11, 2001. We stood together on the Capitol steps 
in solidarity that lasted a good week, and then it became politics as 
usual.

I don't know if this fight for freedom can succeed when about half of 
our Nation doesn't know we are in it; nor do I know whether our Nation 
can come to an honest conclusion about what we are engaged in when all 
they see is the worst side of everything.

When I was last in Iraq, a young man told me about going through a 
city and all the residents came forth to say thank you and throw 
flowers. He asked the embedded reporter if that was worth a picture; he 
was told, ''That's not news.'' I don't know how the whole story gets 
told.

I do know this: This President knows that he and his commanders have 
made some wrong decisions, but he knows, as we must know, that this war 
has always been about the principle, the virtue, the idea of freedom, 
and to walk away now will have catastrophic consequences for its 
future.

President Bush believes that our Nation, more than any other, ought 
to defend the right of people to live free. That is the only victory we 
can ever have over an ideology that cannot survive in a free society.

President Bush knows why Lincoln said that he often found himself on 
his


knees because there was nowhere else to go.



He also knows, as did Lincoln, that a President must continue to 
fight for posterity, even when it becomes unpopular to do so.

If you believe, as I do, that the idea of freedom is still worth 
defending, you will vote against this resolution.