---
---

# CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `74656ed8dd1138bbe5f1b2c01a0f82af`
`Mr. OBEY — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, let me recite a slightly different version of recent 
history with respect to appropriation bills.

After 12 years of rule by the Republican Party, the American people 
gave the Democratic Party the privilege of moving into the majority in 
the last election. We were sworn in on January 4. At that point, not a 
single domestic appropriation bill had been passed by the previous 
Congress.

So before we could move to our own business for this year, we had to 
first clean up the unfinished business left by the previous Republican-
controlled Congress. That took us 6 weeks. And in 6 weeks we passed the 
entire domestic budget; and, at the time we did that, we eliminated all 
earmarks.

Then we also set about to implement the earmark reform process which 
was spoken for by both political parties in this House. That took us an 
extra 3 weeks. During that time, we ramped up the number of hearings 
and the intensity of congressional oversight; and by the end of the 
hearing process we had doubled the number of hearings held by the 
previous Congress and restored a much more tenacious set of oversight 
habits.

We also were forced to confront the President on Iraq because of the 
unraveling situation in that misbegotten war. And we also, as we tried 
to pass our appropriation bills, had to endure filibuster by amendment 
on the part of the minority. They took more than 60 hours above the 
amount taken by the minority in the previous year on appropriation 
bills.

Republicans offered 339 amendments to the appropriation bills that we 
passed in the House, compared to 172 amendments that were offered by 
Democrats when we were in the minority. Despite all of that, we still 
managed to pass every single appropriation bill before the August 
recess. That is only the second time during the Bush administration 
that this House has passed all of its appropriation bills before the 
August recess.

Then those bills went to the Senate; and, as the gentleman indicated, 
they ran into considerable trouble. The Senate has passed four bills. I 
have asked them to proceed to pass as many additional bills as they 
can, and I hope that they do. And, incidentally, when they do bring up 
bills, I was told yesterday that you have between two and three hundred 
amendments filed to several of the bills, so you face a filibuster by 
amendment on the part of the minority in the Senate. As you know, under 
Senate rules, debate cannot be shut down unless you have 60 votes, 
rather than 50.



So that's the record as I see it. The gentleman from California has 
recited the record as he sees it. But I would suggest that what is 
important is what we do now. Where do we go from here?

Even as the Senate makes an effort to complete action on its bills, I 
would hope that we could shorten the process by sitting down now with 
the administration to work out compromises on those bills so that we 
don't have to spend the next 6 weeks continuing to define our 
differences.



I'm an old-fashioned legislator, and I believe that the way the 
parties ought to proceed is that we first ought to define our 
differences and then we ought to resolve them. We've already defined 
our differences with the passage of the 12 bills in the House. I doubt 
that the Senate bills are going to get any better from our standpoint, 
and so it seems to me that time's awasting. It seems to me that we 
would best serve the needs of the country if the administration would 
be willing to sit down with us now and begin discussions about how we 
might reach compromises on these bills so that we can move forward.

Now, let me make one additional point. The President is asking us to 
spend about $200 billion, every dollar of that borrowed, in order to 
finance the supplemental for the war in Iraq, and yet he is objecting 
to the fact that in the House-passed bills we tried to take about 1/
10th that amount and use it for crucial investments in our country's 
future.

The job of this Congress, the job certainly of this committee, is to 
make investments that will benefit the country over the long haul, make 
us a stronger country, and make us a stronger society over the next 10 
years. We don't believe on this side of the aisle, and I think in fact 
we had significant bipartisan agreement if you take a look at the 
votes, we don't believe that you accomplish that strengthening of the 
country by cutting vocational education by 50 percent, as the President 
does in his budget; by eliminating all student aid programs except work 
study and Pell Grant, as the President does in his budget; by gutting 
education technology grants, as the President does in his budget; by 
actually reducing the number of medical research grants at NIH, as the 
President does in his budget. I've never had anybody come up to me in 
my life and say, ''Obey, why don't you guys in Congress get your act 
together and cut cancer research.'' And yet, that's what the Congress 
has done the last 2 years. We don't think that ought to happen. So 
that's why we depart from the President on that score.

We also don't think we strengthen the country when we cut special 
education by $300 million, and there are a good many Republicans who 
agree with that. In fact, Mr. Walsh, the ranking Republican on the 
Labor, Health, Education and Social Services Subcommittee, Mr. Walsh, 
led the effort to increase the funds that our committee provided for 
special education, and I commend him for it.

We also don't think it's good to cut mental health and drug abuse 
funding by $160 million. We don't think that we strengthen the society 
or this country when we cut minority health professions training by 66 
percent. We don't think that we improve health care for children by 
cutting the training of medical personnel in children's hospitals by 63 
percent, and we don't think we strengthen rural America by cutting 
rural health programs by 54 percent.

We don't think we help make our communities better and cleaner by 
cutting the clean water revolving fund by 37 percent, as the President 
does. We don't believe that we meet the needs of our logging industry 
and the recreational needs of the American people when we cut the 
forest service budget by 15 percent, as the President's budget does. 
And we don't believe that we ought to cut housing for disabled 
Americans by 47 percent or senior housing by 20 percent. In an age of 
high gas prices and high energy prices, we don't believe that we ought 
to cut the low-income heating assistance program by 18 percent.

And let me say that Democrats are not the only ones who believe that. 
If you take a look and analyze the votes on the various appropriations 
bills that went through the House, you will see that on average we had 
65 Republicans who voted with us in support of the appropriations bills 
that we sent over to the Senate. In fact, if you average out each of 
the rollcalls for each of the bills that passed, you will see that 
exactly two-thirds of this body voted for those bills.

So I think we have established a bipartisan foundation in the House 
for moving forward, and I hope this continuing resolution gives us the 
necessary time to do that.

I would hope that the Senate can move forward and complete its work 
on a bill-by-bill basis, but frankly, it is immaterial to me whether 
the bills are produced one by one or if they are produced in bunches. 
What counts is not the form. What counts is the substance. What counts 
is whether we make the right investments to make this country stronger 
over the long haul. That's our obligation, no matter how we package it.

So I would once again simply urge the administration to sit down with 
us and begin to talk about how, as adults, we can reach a compromise on 
these issues.

The President would have the country believe that we are blowing the 
lid outrageously on budgets and pouring money into the domestic budget. 
I would suggest that restoring $16 billion in Presidential cuts is 
mighty small potatoes in comparison to the $200 billion that he wants 
us to spend in Iraq and the $50 billion that he still wants us to 
provide for tax cuts for people making a million bucks a year.

Let me remind the House, Mr. Speaker, that in 1980 the appropriations 
for domestic budgets equaled 4.8 percent of our total national income. 
Today, they have been reduced to 2.9 percent of our total national 
income, and the President's budget would take us, by the year 2012, 
down to 2.4 percent of the Nation's income. That means that we would 
have cut in half our investments relative to our national wealth. We 
would have cut in half those domestic investments since 1980. I don't 
believe, and I think there are many in both parties who don't believe, 
that that is the way that we build a stronger future for this country.

So I would simply point out what we have here is an effort on our 
part to add about 2 percent to what the President is doing in the area 
of education, health care, science, law enforcement and all of that, 
and I'd simply suggest that, instead of continuing to talk about it, we 
sit down and have some more productive actions; we sit down and try to 
work out these differences between us so that we can leave town at a 
reasonable time, having completed our action on these bills and having 
met our responsibilities to make the investments that will, over the 
long haul, make this a stronger country.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.