---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `747149ce7b534faa207ca88e1fe2e7fa`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 5 December 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Madam Speaker, we have no further speakers on our side 
and are prepared to close.

I just want to once again remind everyone what this is really about. 
We have an excellent national defense authorization bill for fiscal 
year 2008. It has broad bipartisan support, bicameral support, both the 
House and the Senate. Most Members voted for this bill when it came to 
the floor in the spring. We are about to go to conference and make sure 
that the bills become congruent so we can send it to the President.

This is a bill that the President must sign. It has so many good 
things in it. I want to take a couple of seconds and talk about the 
fact that Democrats, who took majority in January, have written their 
first bill in 13 years, and there are many, many good things in here 
that we are very proud of. We have done many things for the troops. We 
have included a 3.5 percent pay raise. We have prohibited increases in 
their health care, which is called TRICARE, and pharmacy user fees.

The bill also provides $980 million for National Guard equipment. We 
know how stressed and strained our National Guard has been. We know how 
upset many Governors have been that the National Guard has been 
deployed out of States so the State is without their own National 
Guard. And the worst part of it is when they went to Iraq or 
Afghanistan, and some are there for the second and third time, they 
left their equipment there. So the State doesn't even have equipment 
that the State can use in the case of a flood or fire or some other 
kind of an emergency.

We have a lot of equipment that we have added; $17.4 billion for 
MRAPs, which is a plus-up from what the President requested. We have 
also added a shipbuilding request that the President didn't ask for, 
which is a Virginia class submarine, an LPD and a T-AKE, and eight C-
17s that the Pentagon didn't ask for either, because we know that we 
need global power projection.

This is a very important bill that is part of our congressional 
responsibility to raise and support our troops, and I am proud to say 
this is a strong bill that supports our troops, restores military 
readiness and improves accountability to the American people. I ask for 
my colleagues' support of it when we bring it back from the conference.

I appreciate the fact that this is a motion to instruct, but what we 
are being instructed is, frankly, two different issues that we have 
general widespread support for. Both in the House and Senate version of 
the bill, the language included in the motion to instruct has been 
included. We should be very confident that they will be part of the 
final conference report, so this is a motion to instruct that is very 
supportable.

I am happy to yield back the balance of my time.