# None
## `74844aa7755f20aa02786de42147a96b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 31 July 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank the gentlelady from California for 
her leadership. I thank the Education Committee and our leadership.

As many States in this great Nation, Texas is a college State; in my 
community in particular, the University of Houston, Texas Southern 
University, Houston Baptist, Saint Thomas, Houston Community College, 
and I'm sure many, many others. This is a relief. This is a hallelujah 
day to be able to help our young people reach their greatest promise.

This is an important initiative. It encourages colleges to reign in 
price increases and provides consumers with helpful information. Now, 
because of desperate times, many, many State legislatures are giving 
our colleges the ability to raise tuition. It is going up and up and 
up. Now there will have to be an accountability. You will have to 
explain what are you doing to mitigate the cost. We want our children 
educated. We don't want them broke.

This restores integrity and accountability to the student loan 
program. You'll have an option, you'll have information, your parents 
will have information. You will be able to work together so that you 
can invest in your education and still be able to survive once you 
graduate.

It simplifies the Federal Student Aid application access. It expands 
college access and support for low-income and minority students. It 
allows you to have your loans forgiven if you are police officers, 
teachers, scientists, and others that are helping this community. It 
strengthens our workforce and our competitiveness. It helps our 
veterans and military families. It is a day that recognizes that 
America is made great by those who educate and those who, with their 
own genius, will provide for the next intelligence, the next leadership 
of the 21st century.

All over the world they want to copy and emulate how we educate. They 
want to come to the United States because of the principles of freedom. 
This higher education bill will allow us to pursue that freedom in the 
right way, and it assures equal college opportunities for students with 
disabilities. I applaud that. I celebrate that. I encourage that 
opportunity for those students whose minds are agile and who are ready 
to go to work, and it encourages colleges, the most important place, to 
adopt sustainable and energy-efficient practices. This is a valuable 
step in educating our community.

I do want to close by simply saying we have to be on the front lines 
of education, primary and secondary education. This is the bill that 
does it. I ask my colleagues to support the Higher Education 
Opportunity Act.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4137, To amend and extend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, introduced by my distinguished colleague 
from California, Representative George Miller. This significant piece 
of legislation provides greater access to colleges and universities, 
making higher education affordable for all Americans, not just the 
wealthy.

A quality education continues to be the best pathway to social and 
economic mobility in this country. As a member and senior whip of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, I have consistently advocated for the 
maintenance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities. This 
legislation will increase funding to Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities, as well as Hispanic and other minority-serving 
institutions, and it will expand college access and support for low-
income and minority students.

This legislation contains provisions allowing students to receive 
Pell Grant scholarships year-round, and it increases the Pell Grant 
maximum to $8,000. In addition, it strengthens college readiness 
programs, namely the TRIO and GEAR UP college readiness and support 
programs for low-income and first-generation students. These increases 
will expand college access for low-income and minority students. The 
amendment offered by my colleagues Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson 
and Representative Don Young expands upon current Pell Grant 
eligibility, allowing children who lost a mother or father to our wars 
in Iraq or Afghanistan to be eligible for the maximum amount of Pell 
Grant assistance. In this age of global war on terror, it is imperative 
that we ensure that those left behind by those who made the ultimate 
sacrifice for our great Nation are given the greatest opportunity our 
country can provide. As such, I encourage all my colleagues to join me 
in supporting this important amendment.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation contains important provisions opening 
up even wider opportunities for our veterans by increasing college aid 
and housing aid for not only veterans, but their families. This 
legislation creates a new scholarship program for active duty military 
personnel and family members, including children and spouses of active 
duty military service members or veterans. It establishes support 
centers to help veterans succeed in college and graduate. Finally, it 
ensures fairness in student aid and housing aid for veterans, making it 
easier for them to attend college while also fulfilling their military 
service duties.

Mr. Speaker, I would also like to express my strong support for an 
amendment introduced by my distinguished colleague Congressman Danny 
Davis restoring safeguards to student loan borrowers. Mr. Speaker, 
students who take out loans borrow money as part of their pursuit to 
better themselves and contribute to the advancement of our Nation and 
economy. However, current bankruptcy laws apply the same severe 
standards to student borrowers that it applies to those trying to 
escape child support payments, alimony, overdue taxes, and criminal 
fines. Under Mr. Davis's amendment, Government student loans and loans 
made by nonprofit entities would remain non-dischargeable; other 
student loans, made by for-profit banks and other lenders, would 
continue to be non-dischargeable for the first 5 years after they come 
due, and after that time they would be treated like other unsecured 
consumer loans in bankruptcy. Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my 
colleagues to support this amendment, and to work to restore bankruptcy 
protection to private student loans.



Understanding the federal application for Federal Student Aid can be 
challenging and complex even for the most knowledgeable parent. The 
College Opportunity and Affordability Act would streamline and simplify 
the application process, giving families the tools they need to 
properly plan for their college expenses. This legislation will reform 
our higher education system, ensuring students and their families have 
the information they need to understand their borrowing options when 
applying for Federal and private loans.

Mr. Speaker, as an active member of the Committee on Homeland 
Security, I am extremely supportive of the provisions in this 
legislation that boost campus safety and disaster readiness plans. Last 
year's tragedy at Virginia Tech has illustrated the horror to which 
students might be exposed, and natural disasters in recent years have 
underlined the necessity of having campus disaster plans.

This legislation helps all colleges develop and implement state-of-
the-art emergency systems and campus safety plans, and it requires the 
Department of Education to develop and maintain a disaster plan in 
preparation for emergencies. In addition, this legislation creates a 
National Center for Campus Safety at the Department of Justice to work 
in collaboration with the COPS program. Finally, it establishes a 
disaster relief loan program, to help schools recover and rebuild in 
the event of a disaster.

This important piece of legislation gives our youth, our veterans, 
and our families the opportunity to not only dream of attending college 
but actually realize that dream. I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting H.R. 4137 and the conference report.