# FILIPINO AMERICAN HISTORY MONTH
## `7493859d1a17756138212868d767ffc2`
`Mr. LYNCH — 2 November 2009`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I am proud to present H. Res. 780 for consideration. This 
resolution recognizes the celebration of Filipino American History 
Month.

House Resolution 780 was introduced on September 25, 2009, by my 
friend and colleague Representative Bob Filner of California. In 
addition, this resolution was favorably reported out of the Oversight 
Committee by unanimous consent on October 29, 2009, and it enjoys the 
support of over 50 Members of Congress. Moreover, the United States 
Senate passed a companion resolution to this legislation, Senate 
Resolution 298, by unanimous consent on October 1, 2009.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 780 recognizes the celebration of 
Filipino American History Month as a unique opportunity to reflect upon 
the significant advancements of Filipino Americans in our country as 
well as highlight the countless and diverse contributions of Filipino 
Americans to our national history and culture.

This monthlong celebration of Filipino American History Month was 
established in 1988 by the Filipino American National Historical 
Society to coincide with the 225th anniversary of the permanent 
settlement of Filipinos in the continental United States.

Notably, the Filipino American National Historical Society recognizes 
the year 1763 as the date of the first permanent Filipino settlement in 
the continental United States in the small fishing village of Saint 
Malo, located in what is now Saint Bernard Parish in Louisiana. These 
early settlers were formerly impressed sailors who escaped their 
oppressive conditions aboard Spanish galleons to establish a Filipino 
community in present-day Louisiana. The existence of this Filipino 
settlement was first reported in an 1883 Harper's Weekly article, which 
is widely believed to be the first article written about Filipino 
settlers in these United States.

Today, according to the most recent United States Census Bureau 
estimate, the Filipino American population in the United States is 
nearly 3.1 million, making the Filipino American community the second 
largest Asian American group in the United States. And while the 
majority of our Filipino American population is concentrated in the 
States of California and Hawaii, Filipino contributions in the field of 
public service, literature, business, science and other areas have 
deeply enriched the lives of all Americans across our Nation.

Whether we recall the approximately 250,000 brave Filipino Americans 
that served during World War II, or our Filipino Americans deployed in 
the support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom 
in Afghanistan, our brave Filipino American servicemen and -women have 
continually demonstrated their commitment to safeguarding our Nation at 
great personal sacrifice.

Accordingly, I would like to thank the sponsor of this resolution, my 
friend and colleague Mr. Filner of California, for his great work as 
chairman of our Veterans' Affairs Committee and for ensuring that the 
economic stimulus legislation signed by President Obama earlier this 
year included a provision which required that our roughly 15,000 living 
Filipino veterans of World War II receive their full and deserved 
veterans benefits.

The contributions of Filipino Americans to our national history are 
also evident in various other areas, including government and 
journalism. Notably, in 1994, Benjamin J. Cayetano became the first 
Filipino American elected a United States Governor. And in 1997, 
Filipino American journalists Byron Acohido and Alex Tizon of The 
Seattle Times were the recipients of Pulitzer Prizes for their 
outstanding contributions to American journalism.

Mr. Tizon, a native of Manila who came to the United States at the 
age of 4, was honored for a series of investigative articles about the 
widespread corruption and inequities in the Federally sponsored housing 
program for Native Americans. Mr. Acohido received his Pulitzer for his 
reporting on the conditions of the American aerospace industry.

Mr. Speaker, these are only a few of the many Filipino Americans 
whose achievements have greatly contributed to our national history. It 
is my hope that we can commemorate the contributions of all Filipino 
Americans


through the passage of House Resolution 780 and by recognizing the 
significance of Filipino American History Month.

I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting H. Res. 780.

I reserve the balance of my time.