---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `74a11973b2e89d2056f90c4fa57440a7`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, let me first commend my distinguished 
colleague from Colorado, who has been a voice of reason throughout this 
whole process. He has been a leader in trying to fashion a 
comprehensive immigration reform that is tough and smart. We need 
immigration reform that is tough as it relates to making sure our 
borders are protected. We have not only the right but the obligation to 
secure those borders and ensure that we have the wherewithal and the 
resources to make sure only those who cross, cross in a fashion that is 
safe, legal and orderly. At the same time, we need immigration reform 
that deals with our economy, fueling that economy, and finally finds 
justice for individuals who are often subject to human trafficking as 
well as exploitation.

To my distinguished colleague from Colorado, I tip my hat for the 
tremendous effort he has made--and that brings us to where we are 
today. But I do want to go toward one of the pending amendments that 
will be voted on in the next block. It is the amendment I have offered 
with Senator Hagel and many others that goes to the core of one of the 
great issues the Senate will decide as it relates to this immigration 
bill, and that is whether families and the reunification of families is 
still a value to the Senate, is still a value in our family, whether 
families who come together and are strengthened by being together and 
helping each other and working with each other and nurturing each other 
and by so doing strengthening communities in the process are to be 
preserved, or are they, in terms of that battle, likely to be 
eliminated and struck, at least in our immigration context?


I certainly hope when the Senate comes to vote, it will be voting in 
a way that is in line with the many speeches I have heard here, that I 
have heard in committee hearings, that I have heard in the other body, 
in the House of Representatives, where I served before coming here, 
about family values, family reunification is going to be preserved. It 
is time to put our votes where our values are. The Menendez-Hagel 
amendment offers that opportunity.

Now, I do wish to wave my saber to the managers of the bill. I have 
heard some suggestion that there may be an attempt to offer a budget 
point of order which would require a higher vote total. I would simply 
say that there are also budget points of order on the underlying 
substitute. If in fact we are going to go down that slippery slope, 
then I would have the expectation myself to be offering budget points 
of order against the substitute. I think what is fair is to have a vote 
up or down on the amendment as it relates to the majority of the 
Senate's will. We will see what the majority will of the Senate is.

But if we are going to move down that road, I would acknowledge that 
there is a budget point of order as it relates to the underlying 
substitute. So I hope we will not move to that type of tactic as we 
pursue the vote on this amendment.

Now, it seems to me that under the existing bill, people who apply 
under the existing rule, under the law as it is today, who observe the 
law, who follow the rules, who said to their family member: No, no, do 
not come to the United States, wait your turn, follow the law, obey the 
rules, who filed an application as is a right of a U.S. citizen to file 
for a petition for their immediate relative, who paid their application 
fee, whose Government took their application fee, whose Government went 
ahead and made an analysis of that petition to see if it was a petition 
that was lawfully entitled to be approved, and who approved the very 
essence of that petition saying: Yes, this person, as a U.S. citizen, 
has the right--the right--to go ahead and apply for their family 
member, their brother or sister, their mother or father, their son or 
daughter--that is the universe that we are talking about--and says: 
Having approved my documentation and having approved of that petition, 
then you must wait your turn to the time that ultimately the priority 
date will invoke the possibility for you to come to the United States.

That is the law. That is obeying the law. That is the rule of law. So 
you would think that in the legislation we are debating, those who have 
obeyed the law, followed the rules, and those who are U.S. citizens and 
have done the right thing, that we would not extinguish, eliminate 
their right for having done the right thing--for having done the right 
thing.

But that is the very essence of what this bill does, unless we adopt 
our amendment. Under the bill, not only does, of course, the Senate 
bill propose a radical change to who and how you can come to this 
country, but it also cancels the applications that are pending--
pending--of many people who have been waiting patiently in line for 
family-based visas. If you are a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent 
resident, you filed after May of 2005, the date that arbitrarily was 
taken and put into the bill to bring in a relative to the family 
immigration system, your application is gone. It is voided. You are 
told: Get to the back of the line--the back of the line, by the way, 
which is the back of the line with people who violated the law, who 
violated the law. Imagine that.

Whose right is being extinguished here? Not the family member who is 
waiting abroad. No. The right of the individual that is being 
extinguished is the U.S. citizen. That is where the right accrues. It 
is that person who has


the right to make this claim under existing law.

So we take away their right after they filed the petition, paid their 
fees, and told their family members to wait. They are told to get in 
the back of the line. The back of the line is after those individuals 
who did not follow the law and obey the rules.

It boggles the mind. Under the Senate bill, employment-based 
immigrants are allowed to continue their applications as long as they 
are pending after the date of enactment. Employment-based verification. 
What about those families who have done everything right? It is only 
fair, in my mind, that family-based immigrants be given the same 
treatment.

The Menendez-Hagel amendment goes a long way to restoring fairness to 
this situation by doing what? We simply take the cutoff date that is in 
the bill, May 2005, and we say: Do not treat American citizens any 
worse than you are going to treat those who came into the country in an 
undocumented fashion. You are going to give them a benefit, January 1, 
2007. They had to be here by January 1, 2007. Well, then, let those who 
followed the law, obeyed the rules, paid their fees, told their 
families to wait, they have the same benefit: January 1, 2007.

It is not outside the ''grand bargain.'' It is within the same 
context. You want to clear out a backlog? Fine, clear out a backlog but 
be fair in the process. Do not extinguish the rights of U.S. citizens.

It is important to understand, as we talk about this, the stringent 
requirements that exist under the law today governing family 
sponsorship for immigration. They would continue to apply in these 
cases. Any U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident wishing to sponsor 
a family member, as part of the approval of that petition, must 
demonstrate that he or she earns at least 125 percent of the Federal 
poverty level and must sign a legally enforceable ''affidavit of 
support,'' pledging to ensure his or her relative will not become a 
public charge.

On top of that, based upon the welfare reform legislation that was 
passed several years ago, legal immigrants are barred, barred from 
accessing most Federal means-tested public benefits for the first 5 
years in the United States and are thereafter subject to further 
limitations until they have worked 40 quarters in this country, which 
is the equivalent of 10 years--10 years. Five years first, in terms of 
being barred from any public benefit because you came in on the 
affidavit of a family member who said: I am going to be responsible for 
this individual, and then 10 years after, in terms of being subject to 
further limitations of their necessity to have worked 40 quarters, 10 
years.


Now, I have heard a lot about the rule of law. I am for the rule of 
law. But how does the rule of law get promoted, how does the rule of 
law get promoted when we say to a U.S. citizen who has applied for 
their family member waiting abroad, waiting their time, following the 
rules, obeying the rule of law, that, in fact, they have an inferior 
right to someone who did not follow the rules, who did not obey the 
law, and who ultimately will receive a benefit superior, superior to 
that U.S. citizen who is claiming their family member and waiting under 
the law and pursuing the law?

In my mind, it sends out totally the wrong message. The message 
should have been: No, no. Come across. Come however you can. Then, by 
the way, you know we are going to give you a benefit. Do not stay out 
there waiting. Yes, it breaks our heart that we are not together. Yes, 
you are going to have to wait a period of time. But you know that is 
the law. We are going to do this right.

Oh, no. Instead of honoring and rewarding that and sending a message 
that when you observe the law there is a benefit, you know, we do the 
opposite. We do the opposite under this bill. Our amendment very simply 
says: A U.S. citizen claiming their family member, waiting under the 
legal process, waiting to proceed, that their right should not be 
snuffed out like that, under this bill, in May of 2005, when those who 
have crossed the borders of our country through a process that is 
unchecked, undocumented, get a benefit--January of 2007.

Because here is the message we send under this bill: Break the law, 
you get a benefit--January of 2007. Follow the law, follow the rule of 
law, obey it, your right is snuffed out in May of 2005. So I think if 
we want to send a message about the rule of law, what we want to do is 
to ensure we put on an equal footing the rights of a U.S. citizen 
claiming their family member, obeying the law, to give them the same 
opportunity that those who have not. That is what our amendment is all 
about.

Now, as we approach moving toward a vote on this amendment, I wish to 
remind our colleagues about whose rights they are snuffing out. Rights 
of individuals good enough to wear the uniform of the United States, 
good enough to serve their country, good enough to fight for their 
country but not good enough to observe their right to claim their 
family member.

Under this bill, both U.S. citizens and U.S. legal permanent 
residents' rights are snuffed out. These men in different branches of 
the armed services of the United States, they were good enough to fight 
for their country, but they were not good enough, under this bill, to 
have their rights preserved to claim their family member.

That does not make sense to me. Now, I have heard about this killer 
amendment--killer amendment. One of our colleagues has tried to 
describe our amendment on family reunification as a killer amendment. 
What is a killer amendment? A killer amendment is an amendment that is 
proposed by a sponsor who does not want to see comprehensive 
immigration reform pass the Senate.

Now, the ironic part of that is many who used that language last year 
when I was in the Senate voting for comprehensive immigration reform, 
that was used against me in my election last year. They were voting 
against comprehensive immigration reform. Killer amendment? When did 
family reunification--family reunification--strengthening of families, 
preserving the rights of U.S. citizens, including those who wear the 
uniform of the United States, when did that become a killer amendment?

Now, I have heard a lot about family values in my 15 years in 
Congress. You know, when you want to move away from the human aspect, 
when you want to forget, for example, the face of Marine LCpl Jose 
Antonio Gutierrez, a legal permanent resident of the United States who 
gave his life, the first soldier to die in Iraq, under this bill, had 
he survived, you would have extinguished his right to claim his family. 
He was good enough to die for his country, not good enough to have his 
rights preserved. When you don't want to see the human faces, you 
dehumanize it so you can deal with it abstractly. So what have we heard 
about? We have heard about chain migration. We can treat it like an 
inanimate object; we have to stop that chain migration.


This is much more than chain migration. This chain my colleagues so 
abstractly refer to, the top of this chain is someone who is a mother 
or a father. When did that become such a horrible thing? I thought we 
wanted to strengthen families, honor our parents, honor their ability 
to perform and to be strengthened. But that is chain migration. We 
can't let a U.S. citizen be able to claim their family. No, that is 
chain migration. We can't do that.

When did we decide our brothers and sisters are nonnuclear? But they 
are part of the chain, brothers and sisters. Then our children--this is 
a good one--if they are under the age of 21, they are part of our 
nuclear family. If they are over the age of 21, they are no longer part 
of our nuclear family, just a little part of this chain.

I have two children. One is 21; the other is 23. I have never for a 
moment, because they changed from 20 to 21, believed they were not part 
of my nuclear family. I don't view them as part of a chain. I don't 
love them any less. I couldn't live without them any less. The mere 
passage of a year, some numerical figure makes them part of a chain, 
nonnuclear. I guess we can do away with our children. I guess we can do 
without the right of U.S. citizens to claim their children. We can just 
discard them. I guess when you become 21, you really don't matter 
anymore. As a matter of fact, all of that family values stuff doesn't 
matter anymore. Unless we adopt this amendment, that is what we are 
talking about.

Imagine if we couldn't have such a set of circumstances be preserved 
by


virtue of this amendment. I have shown some of these pictures before, 
but as we move to the vote, I hope people understand what I am talking 
about. Under the bill, family reunification that I believe is so 
critical, we wouldn't have a lot of people in our country who have made 
enormous contributions. Ultimately, we ended up thriving because of 
their contributions. We ended up thriving on the contributions of a 
Colin Powell whose parents, under this bill, would not have been 
eligible to come to this country and, therefore, unlikely that he would 
have been born here and had the opportunity to become chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff or Secretary of State. He has made a good 
contribution to this country.

Right now in Iraq our leadership comes from GEN David Petraeus. The 
reality is, under this bill his parents would have been unlikely to 
come to this country, and he would not be a United States general and 
leading the best efforts we can have in Iraq.

Under this bill, the inventor of the polio vaccine, Jonas Salk, would 
not have made it to this country. Yet he saved the lives of millions 
and millions of people here and across the world. Under this bill, at 
least, America wouldn't have been the place in which electricity and 
the light bulb would have been found. Thomas Edison, from my home State 
of New Jersey, likely would not have made it because his parents 
weren't rocket scientists.

The list goes on and on. We have a gentleman who did a great service 
to our service men and women across the globe, Bob Hope. Under this 
bill his parents wouldn't have made it, and we wouldn't have had an 
incredible ambassador for our country and an incredible sponsor of 
goodwill for the men and women who served us over decades around the 
globe.

What do we say? This came out recently in one of the newspapers. What 
are our priorities? Stopping terrorists, stopping drugs at the border? 
No. Drugs or explosives? No. We are just checking to make sure you 
don't take any loved ones with you.

Under this bill, it doesn't matter because even when you obey the law 
and follow the rules, you ultimately have your right extinguished.

It seems to me we have our values wrong. It is not about chain 
migration, not about just looking at the ability to say that family 
reunification should not happen, especially when the burden is on the 
family member who happens to be a U.S. citizen. I simply believe the 
question before the Senate will be, are you willing to vote to 
eliminate the right that exists today of a U.S. citizen who filed his 
papers, the Government took his money, he obeyed the law, followed the 
rules, you are going to take away his or her right? But you are going 
to give a right to individuals who didn't follow the law and obey the 
rules. I certainly don't believe that ultimately is in pursuit of the 
rule of law.

There are many organizations that have joined us. I ask unanimous 
consent to have this list printed in the Record.