---
---

# FAREWELL TO THE SENATE
## `74baa3452b25f97dbb347b7d36c1e4e4`
`Mr. DODD — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, first of all, let me express my gratitude to 
all of the colleagues and other individuals who have come to the 
Chamber at this moment.

Everyone who serves in Congress usually recalls two moments in their 
service: the maiden speech they give shortly after their arrival and 
their closing remarks. I can't recall what the first speech I gave as a 
new member of the House of Representatives 36 years ago was even about. 
I do, however, recall very vividly that there was no one else in the 
Chamber when I gave it. It was an empty hall early one evening with the 
exception of one colleague, Johnny Dent from Pennsylvania. He was 
sitting in his chair with his trademark dark glasses, listening 
patiently as I gave my knee-rattling, hand-shaking maiden address. 
Midway through the speech, he walked up to me and said quietly: You 
know, kid, it is not on the level. Well, that was my first speech 
before the House, and I am deeply honored that so many of you have come 
out to listen to my closing remarks today so I do not have to speak to 
an empty Chamber.

For more than 200 years, a uniquely American story has unfolded here 
in the Chamber of the United States Senate--a fascinating, inspiring, 
often tumultuous tale of conflict and compromise, reflecting the 
awesome potential of our still-young democracy and its occasional 
moments of agonizing frustration.

For much of my life, this story has intersected with my own in ways 
that have been both thrilling and humbling. As a 14-year-old boy, I sat 
in the family gallery of this very Chamber watching as my father took 
the oath of office as a new Senator. A few years later, in 1962, I sat 
where these young men and women sit today, serving as a Senate page. 
John F. Kennedy was President and Lyndon Johnson presided over this 
body. Eighteen years later, in the fall of 1980, the people of 
Connecticut gave me the honor of a lifetime when they asked me to give 
voice to their views, electing me to serve as their U.S. Senator. For 
the past 30 years, I have worked hard to sustain that trust. I am proud 
of the work I have done, but it is time for my story and that of this 
institution, which I cherish so much, to diverge. Thus, Mr. President, 
I rise to give some valedictory remarks as my service as a U.S. Senator 
from Connecticut comes to a close.

Now, it is common for retiring Senators to say the following: I will 
miss the people but not the work. Mr. President, you won't hear that 
from me. Most assuredly, I will miss the people of the Senate, but I 
will miss the work as well. Over the years, I have both witnessed and 
participated in some great debates in this Chamber, moments when 
statesmen of both parties gathered together in this Hall to weigh the 
great questions of our time. And while I wish there had been more of 
those moments, I will always remember the Senate debates on issues such 
as Central America, the Iraq war, campaign finance reform, securities 
litigation, health care, and, of course, financial reform.

And when I am home in Connecticut, I see the results of the work we 
did every day. I see workers coming home from their shifts at Pratt & 
Whitney, Electric Boat, the Sikorsky helicopter plant--the lifeblood of 
a defense manufacturing sector so critical to our national security and 
to the economic well-being of my home State. I see communities 
preparing for high-speed rail and breaking ground for new community 
health centers. I see the grants we fought for helping cities and towns 
to build sustainable communities and promote economic development.

When I am home, I meet parents who, because of the Family and Medical 
Leave Act, don't have to choose between keeping their jobs and taking 
care of their sick children. I visit with elderly folks who no longer 
have to choose between paying for their prescription drugs and paying 
for their heat. I hear from consumers who have been victimized by 
unfair practices on


the part of credit card companies and who will no longer be subject to 
those abuses. And I meet young children as well who, through Early Head 
Start or access to afterschool programs, have blossomed academically in 
spite of difficult economic circumstances.

As proud as I am of the work that has made these stories possible 
over the last three decades, I am keenly aware, particularly today, 
that I did not do any of this alone. Until this last Congress, with 
rare exceptions, every major piece of legislation I authored that 
became law--including the ones I have just mentioned--had a Republican 
cosponsor as well as support from my Democratic caucus. So to my 
Democratic and Republican Senate colleagues who joined me in all these 
efforts over 30 years, I say thank you this afternoon.

I also want to thank, if I can, the unsung heroes of this 
institution--the Senate staff and my personal staff. It would be a 
grievous understatement to simply say they make the trains run on time. 
Without them, as all of us know, the trains would never leave the 
station at all--the floor staff, the cloakroom professionals of both 
parties, and the hundreds of unknown and unseen people who show up 
every day in this body to make this critical institution of democracy 
function. Without them, no Senator could fulfill his or her obligations 
to the American people.

Many of my personal staff and committee staff are present in the 
Senate gallery today. Neither I nor the millions of Americans whose 
lives you have enriched or whose burdens you have lightened can ever 
thank you enough. I only hope your time with me has been as fulfilling 
as my time with you.

Of course, I owe an enormous debt of gratitude to the people of 
Connecticut, whose confidence, patience, and spirit have given my life 
and its work deep meaning. As rich as our common language is, words 
cannot even come close to capturing the depth of my affection for and 
appreciation of the people of the State of Connecticut. For almost four 
decades--three terms in the House of Representatives, five terms in 
this Chamber--you have entrusted me to labor on your behalf, and I 
deeply thank you for that honor.

And lastly, my family. My parents are long since deceased, but their 
guidance, inspiration, and example have never departed. For the past 30 
years, I have sat at this very same desk occupied by my father during 
the 12 years he served in this Chamber. His courage, character, and 
conviction have been a constant reminder of what it means to be a U.S. 
Senator. I thank my siblings and their children and other relatives for 
their enthusiastic support, particularly during the rough patches. From 
time to time, we all need the safe harbor of family at the darker 
moments. And to Jackie, Grace, and Christina, who have supported and 
inspired me every day: You mean more to me than I could ever say in 
these few short moments. So come January, I am glad I will have more 
time to say it to you more often. And to Jackie in particular: You have 
been my anchor to windward in the rough and turbulent waters of public 
service. When it was the darkest, you were the brightest. I love you 
more than life.

As this chapter in my career comes to a close, a new chapter in the 
Senate's history is beginning. When this body is gaveled to order in 
January, nearly half of its Members will be in their first term. And 
even though I could spend hours fondly recalling a lifetime of 
yesterdays, this new Senate and the Nation must confront a very 
uncertain tomorrow. So rather than recite a long list of personal 
memories or to revisit video highlights of my Senate service, I would 
like to take this brief time, in these few short moments, to offer a 
few thoughts to those who will write the Senate's next chapter.

I will begin by stating the sadly obvious. Our electoral system is a 
mess. Powerful financial interests, free to throw money about with 
little transparency, have corrupted, in my view, the basic principles 
underlying our representative democracy. As a result, our political 
system at the Federal level is completely dysfunctional. Those who were 
elected to the Senate just a few weeks ago must already begin the 
unpleasant work of raising money for their reelection 6 years hence. 
Newly-elected Senators will learn that their every legislative 
maneuver, their every public utterance, and even some of their private 
deliberations will be fodder for a 24/7 political media industry that 
seems to favor speculation over analysis and conflict over consensus.

This explosion of new media brings with it its own benefits and its 
drawbacks--and it is occurring simultaneously as the presence of 
traditional media outlets in our Nation is declining. So while the 
corridors of Congress are crowded with handheld video and cell phone 
cameras, there is a declining roll for newspaper, radio, and network 
journalists reporting the routine deliberations that are taking place 
in our subcommittee hearings. Case in point: Ten years ago, 11 or 12 
reporters from Connecticut covered the delegation's legislative 
activities. Today, there is only one doing the same work.

Meanwhile, intense partisan polarization has raised the stakes in 
every debate and on every vote, making it difficult to lose with grace 
and nearly impossible to compromise without cost. Americans' distrust 
of politicians provides compelling incentives for Senators to distrust 
each other, to disparage this very institution, and to disengage from 
the policymaking process.

These changes have already had their effect on the Senate. The 
purpose of insulating one-half of the national legislature from the 
volatile shifts in public mood has been degraded. And while I strongly 
favor reforming our campaign finance system, revitalizing and 
rehabilitating our journalistic traditions, and restoring citizen faith 
in government and politics, I know that wishes won't make it so.

I have heard some people suggest that the Senate as we know it simply 
cannot function in such a highly charged political environment; that we 
should change Senate rules to make it more efficient, more responsive 
to the public mood--more like the House of Representatives, where the 
majority can essentially bend the minority to its will. I appreciate 
the frustrations many have with the slow pace of the legislative 
process, and I certainly share some of my colleagues' anger with the 
repetitive use and abuse of the filibuster. Thus, I can understand the 
temptation to change the rules that make the Senate so unique and 
simultaneously so terribly frustrating. But whether such a temptation 
is motivated by a noble desire to speed up the legislative process or 
by pure political expedience, I believe such changes would be unwise.

We 100 Senators are but temporary stewards of a unique American 
institution, founded upon universal principles. The Senate was designed 
to be different, not simply for the sake of variety but because the 
Framers believed the Senate could and should be the venue in which 
statesmen would lift America up to meet its unique challenges.

As a Senator from the State of Connecticut--and the longest serving 
one in its history--I take special pride in the role two Connecticut 
Yankees played in the establishment of this very body. It was Roger 
Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth, delegates from Connecticut to the 
Constitutional Convention in 1787, who proposed the idea of a bicameral 
national legislature. The Connecticut Compromise, as it came to be 
known, was designed to ensure that no matter which way the political 
winds blew or how hard the gusts, there would be a place--one place--
for every voice to be heard.

The history of this young democracy, the Framers decided, should not 
be written solely in the hand of the political majority. In a nation 
founded in revolution against tyrannical rule which sought to crush 
dissent, there should be one institution that would always provide a 
space where dissent was valued and respected. E pluribus unum--out of 
many, one. And though we would act as one, and should, the Framers 
believed our political debate should always reflect that in our beliefs 
and aspirations, we are, in fact, many. In short, our Founders were 
concerned not only with what we legislated but, just as importantly, 
with how we legislated.

In my years here, I have learned that the appreciation of the 
Senate's role in our national debate is an acquired taste. Therefore, 
to my fellow Senators who have never served a day in the minority, I 
urge you to pause in your enthusiasm to change Senate rules. And


to those in the minority who routinely abuse the rules of the Senate to 
delay or defeat almost any Senate decision, know that you will be 
equally responsible for undermining the unique value of the Senate--a 
value, I would argue, that is greater than that which you might assign 
to the political motivations driving your obstruction.

So in the end, of course, I would suggest this isn't about the 
filibuster. What will determine whether this institution works or not, 
what has always determined whether we fulfill the Framers' highest 
hopes or justify the cynics' worst fears is not the Senate rules or the 
calendar or the media; it is whether each of the 100 Senators can work 
together, living up to the incredible honor that comes with this title 
and the awesome responsibility that comes with this office.

Politics today seemingly rewards only passion and independence, not 
deliberation and compromise as well. It has become commonplace to hear 
candidates for this body campaign on how they are going to Washington 
to shake things up--all by themselves. May I politely suggest that you 
are seeking election to the wrong office. The U.S. Senate does not work 
that way, nor can it, nor should it. Mayors, Governors, and Presidents 
can sometimes succeed by the sheer force of their will, but there has 
never been a Senator so persuasive, so charismatic, so clever, or so 
brilliant that they could make a significant difference while refusing 
to work with other Members of this body.

Simply put, Senators cannot ultimately be effective alone.

As I noted earlier, until last year's health care bill, there had not 
been a single piece of legislation I had ever passed without a 
Republican partner.

Of course, none of those victories came easily. The notion that 
partisan politics is a new phenomenon, or that partisan politics serve 
no useful purpose, is just flat wrong.

From the moment of our founding, America has been engaged in an 
eternal and often pitched partisan debate. That is no weakness. In 
fact, it is at the core of our strength as a democracy, and success as 
a nation.

Political bipartisanship is a goal, not a process.

You do not begin the debate with bipartisanship--you arrive there. 
And you can do so only when determined partisans create consensus--and 
thus bipartisanship.

In the end, the difference between a partisan brawl and a passionate, 
but ultimately productive, debate rests on the personal relationships 
among those of us who serve here.

A legislative body that operates on unanimous consent, as we do, 
cannot function unless the Members trust each other. There is no hope 
of building that trust unless there is the will to treat each other 
with respect and civility, and to invest the time it takes to create 
that trust and strengthen those personal bonds.

No matter how obnoxious you find a colleague's rhetoric or how odious 
you find their beliefs, you will need them. And despite what some may 
insist, you do no injustice to your ideological principles when you 
seek out common ground. You do no injustice to your political beliefs 
when you take the time to get to know those who don't share them.

I have served with several hundred Senators under every partisan 
configuration imaginable: Republican presidents and Democratic 
presidents, divided government and one party control.

And as odd as it may sound in the present political environment, in 
the last three decades I have served here, I cannot recall a single 
Senate colleague with whom I could not work.

Sometimes those relationships take time, but then, that is why the 
Framers gave us 6-year terms: so that members could build the social 
capital necessary to make the Senate function.

Under our Constitution, Senators are given 6 years, but only you can 
decide how to use them. And as one Senator who has witnessed what is 
possible here, I urge each of you: Take the time to use those years 
well. I pledge to those of you who have recently arrived, your tenure 
here will be so much more rewarding.

More importantly, you will be vindicating the confidence that the 
Framers placed in each person who takes the oath of office, as a U.S. 
Senator, upholding a trust that echoes through the centuries.

I share the confidence that Roger Sherman, Oliver Ellsworth, and the 
Framers placed in this body and in its Members. But I am not blind. The 
Senate today, in the view of many, is not functioning as it can and 
should.

I urge you to look around. This moment is difficult, not only for 
this body, but for the nation it serves. In the end, what matters most 
in America is not what happens within the walls of this Chamber, but 
rather the consequences of our decisions across the Nation and around 
the globe.

Our economy is struggling, and many of our people are experiencing 
real hardship--unemployment, home foreclosures, endangered pensions.

Meanwhile, our Nation faces real challenges: a mounting national 
debt, energy, immigration, nuclear proliferation, ongoing conflicts in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and so much more. All these challenges make the 
internal political and procedural conflicts we face as Senators seem 
small and petty.

History calls each of us to lift our eyes above the fleeting 
controversies of the moment, and to refocus our attention on our common 
challenge and common purpose.

By regaining its footing, the Senate can help this nation to regain 
confidence, and restore its sense of optimism.

We must regain that focus. And, most importantly, we need our 
confidence back--we need to feel that same optimism that has sustained 
us through more than two centuries.

Now, I am not naive. I am aware of the conventional wisdom that 
predicts gridlock in the Congress.

But I know both the Democratic and Republican leaders. I know the 
sitting members of this chamber as well. And my confidence is unshaken.

Why? Because we have been here before. The country has recovered from 
economic turmoil. Americans have come together to heal deep divides in 
our Nation and the Senate has led by finding its way through seemingly 
intractable political division.

We have proven time and time again that the Senate is capable of 
meeting the test of history. We have evidenced the wisdom of the 
Framers who created its unique rules and set the high standards that we 
must meet.

After all, no other legislative body grants so much power to each 
member, nor does any other legislative body ask so much of each member.

Just as the Senate's rules empower each Member to act like a 
statesman, they also require statesmanship from each of us.

But these rules are merely requiring from us the kind of leadership 
that our constituents need from us, that history calls on us to provide 
in difficult times such as the ones we're encountering.

Maturity in a time of pettiness, calm in a time of anger, and 
leadership in a time of uncertainty--that is what the Nation asks of 
the Senate, and that is what this office demands of us.

Over the past two centuries, some 1,900 men and women have shared the 
privilege of serving in this body. Each of us has been granted a 
temporary, fleeting moment in which to indulge either our political 
ambition and ideological agenda, or, alternatively, to rise to the 
challenge and make a constructive mark on our history.

My moment is now at an end, but to those whose moments are not yet 
over, and to those whose moments will soon begin, I wish you so much 
more than good fortune.

I wish you wisdom. I wish you courage. And I wish for each of you 
that, one day, when you reflect on your moment, you will know that you 
have lived up to the tremendous honor and daunting responsibility of 
being a United States Senator.

To quote St. Paul, ''. . . the time of my departure has come. I have 
fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the 
faith.''

So, Mr. President, it is with great pride, deep humility and 
incredible gratitude, as a United States Senator, that I yield the 
floor.

Thank you, Mr. President.

(Applause, Senators rising.)