# MARKING THE END OF THE 4TH YEAR OF THE OCCUPATION OF IRAQ
## `74c32283113960059ba08217ce63a5fc`
`Ms. LEE — 19 March 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman for calling this 
Special Order tonight and for your leadership.

Today marks the fourth anniversary of the invasion and bombing of 
Iraq. It is a solemn occasion that reminds me with a very heavy heart 
of our brave troops who we want to protect and who we want to bring 
home.

As the occupation now enters its 5th year, it is really an 
appropriate time to review some of the history. It is also an 
appropriate time to recall that the case for this war was false.

All the talk about aluminum tubes and yellowcake, remember that? 
Right.


Colin Powell's dramatic presentation to the United Nations? I still 
wonder why such a distinguished Secretary of State would do that.

The fact is there was no connection to al Qaeda. There were no 
weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and there was no connection 
between the horrific events of 9/11 and Saddam Hussein in Iraq.

Some of us opposed the war from the beginning. In fact, if my 
amendment to the authorization to use force had been used 4 years ago, 
the United Nations inspectors would have had the opportunity to finish 
their job and confirm what we believed and some of us knew at that 
time, what the world now knows, namely, that Iraq had no weapons of 
mass destruction.



It is an appropriate time now to review the disaster that has taken 
place in Iraq, so that the administration does not rewrite this tragic 
history, and also to put the administration on notice and in check from 
starting a preemptive war against Iran, which many see as looming. It's 
appropriate tonight to review this history because the administration 
who brought us this debacle would now like us to accept an open-ended 
commitment to it.

Why is it appropriate for us to remind the country of all of this 
tonight? Because the same people, the same administration who brought 
us this disaster are now asking us to trust them again. They are saying 
that we should give the President another chance. They are saying, in 
effect, that our commitment to supporting their failed policies should 
be open-ended.

Think about that for a minute. The people in this administration who 
have been wrong about every single major decision about this war are 
now trying to make it seem unreasonable to suggest that we should not 
continue to write blank checks to support this debacle.

Well, it is not unreasonable. That is where the American people are 
on this issue. They know better. It is time for this unfortunate 
chapter of our history to close. It is time to end the occupation of 
Iraq and bring our troops home.

At various points the administration has told us that the mission has 
been accomplished, that we were turning the corner, or that the 
insurgency was in its last throes. As we now know, those pronouncements 
were all false.

The truth is that the administration's conduct of this war has been 
nothing short of shameful. We may never know how many of the roadside 
bombs that kill our troops every day are made from explosives looted 
from weapons depots that were left unguarded because the administration 
chose to ignore the advice of our military commanders on how many 
troops would be needed. Whatever the number is, it is too many.

It is an appropriate time tonight to review the cost of the 
administration's failed policy in Iraq. The human cost of this 
occupation has been terrible. More than 3,200 United States servicemen 
and women have died, and more than 32,000 have been wounded. That is an 
average of 67 deaths and 500 wounded every month, not to mention the 
death and injuries of countless Iraqis.

The financial cost is unsustainable. Already we have spent more than 
$400 billion on this invasion and occupation. We are averaging more 
than $8 billion per month. That is staggering.

The cost of our security has been devastating. The Bush 
administration's military and foreign policy doctrine of preemptive 
war, like you can start a war based on perceived future threats, this 
was supposed to solve the problem posed by the so-called axis of evil.

Four years after putting the doctrine to test in Iraq, the results 
are in, and it is a total failure. Iraq posed no imminent threat to our 
security, but today the vast majority of our security resources are 
bogged down in Iraq. North Korea has obtained nuclear weapons, 
something the doctrine was to prevent, and Iran is empowered and 
emboldened. The occupation is undermining our efforts to fight 
international terrorism.

According to the National Intelligence Estimate of April 2006, and 
this is in their words, they said the Iraq conflict has been the cause 
celebre for jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of the United States 
involvement in the Muslim world and cultivating supporters for the 
global jihadist movement. Now, this is what the National Intelligence 
Estimate said.

Furthermore, the toll that the occupation is taking on our Armed 
Forces is stretching the military beyond the breaking point. The 
Washington Post reported today that Army and Marine officials are 
referring to a readiness death spiral in which the ever more rapid pace 
of war zone rotations has consumed 40 percent of the total gear, 
wearied troops, and left no time to train to fight anything other than 
insurgents now at hand.

The administration likes to talk about the situation in Iraq in terms 
of winning and losing, because it is convenient to portray critics of 
their policies as opposed to victory or supportive of defeat. The fact 
is you cannot win an occupation, just as there is no way for the United 
States to win an Iraqi civil war.

The Bush administration understands this just as they understand that 
there are no pretty or clean options for bringing a responsible end to 
our policy there. They are content to mouth the words of victory while 
they try to run out the clock, playing a cynical game of political 
chicken, where whoever acts to bring a responsible end to their failed 
policy will be accused of having lost Iraq.

The trouble is, though, that an average of 67 troops die in Iraq each 
month, and 500 are wounded, and we can't forget that. As General 
Petraeus and the Iraq Study Group both pointed out, there is no 
military solution to this civil war and occupation. For me, the cost of 
going along with the President's escalation charade and risking our 
brave young men and women's lives is way too high. It's time to bring 
this war and occupation to an end. It's time for military measures to 
be replaced with diplomacy and engagement with Iraq's neighbors. It's 
time to take the target off our troops' back and to bring them home.

Thank you, Mr. Hinchey, for this Special Order tonight, and let's 
hope the American people raise their voices loudly and clearly with 
regard to what is taking place with this war and bring it to an end 
very soon.