---
---

# None
## `74f345df9badcea1ef543426416226e6`
`Mr. INHOFE — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, in Fallujah right now, one Iraqi brigade 
owns the battlespace. This is the term which we use in the Armed 
Services Committee, ''owns the battlespace.'' It means they are 
providing their own security. Now, this was not true a few years ago 
when I first went there. No one could get anywhere near anything in 
town. You would not take the risk of going in.

I was there during both of the elections, and I saw the Iraqi 
security forces go to vote the day before the public would vote. When 
they did this, they found themselves in a situation that was very 
dangerous. They voted the day before so they could provide the security 
for the populous of Fallujah. Well, several of them were killed, as you 
recall. But I talked to them each night after they went to vote, and 
they were overjoyed in doing it. They said: The day is coming when we 
are going to be able to take care of the security in Fallujah.

All right, that was 4 years ago and 3 years ago and 5 years ago on 
different trips I made there. This weekend, just 2 days ago, we have 
now officially turned over the security of Fallujah to the Iraqis. They 
are providing the security.

If you look in the whole province of Anbar, you see another thing 
that is happening. A lot of people think--we hear a lot from the Prime 
Minister, Maliki; we hear about the Minister of Defense, Jasim; we 
heard about Dr. Rubaie--all of these people who were appointed or 
elected to be the leadership of Iraq. They are not the ones who are 
really making the decisions as far as the people are concerned. It is a 
different culture. It is the clerics and the imams in the mosques.

Now, we measure what goes on in the mosques. It is just like we would 
hear a sermon in the United States in a church--we go there and find 
out what they are talking about. Prior to February, 80 percent of the 
mosques had messages that were delivered by the clerics there or the 
imams there that were anti-American, getting everyone stirred up 
every Saturday or whenever they get together. In April, it was zero. 
There wasn't one mosque, of the hundreds of mosques, that had an anti-
American message. For that reason, you have all of the populous coming 
in and saying: We want in on this thing. We are going to actually get 
something done here. We are tired.


They are the ones who have been the targets for the terrorists. They 
know that. Certainly the clerics know that. That is why we are getting 
this surge of cooperation.

In March of 2006, there were only 4,000 what they call Iraqi security 
forces. Today, there are 27,500 trained and equipped Iraqi security 
forces. The Sunni tribal coalition is fighting al-Qaida. That is 
something new. That wasn't happening 3 weeks ago. It certainly was not 
happening in February.

I did stop in Baghdad. I spent most of the time in Anbar Province. 
But in Baghdad, I was heartened to see something new--and I did not 
know how it worked--is being put in place. It is called a joint 
security station. Now, in Baghdad, there are 27 of them. So the night 
before last, late at night, I went out there and I saw how they worked. 
Instead of our troops going out on raids during the day and then coming 
back to the Green Zone where they will be safe, our troops are now 
staying out there in those areas in these joint security stations. They 
are there with the Iraqis. They are sleeping there with them, they are 
eating with them, and they are developing close relationships. That is 
the key to this thing. This all came from General Petraeus, that we 
have relationships in these areas. If you talk to our troops--you don't 
talk to the guys on the Senate floor here; talk to the troops, find 
people who are coming back. You ask them what their relationship is now 
with the Iraqi security forces.

I have to say this also--even though we heard this before, we did 
verify it is actually more than this--the sectarian murders in Baghdad 
are down by 30 percent. Now, that is not quite as good as it is in 
Anbar Province. One of the reasons is Anbar Province is where all of 
the problems were, and we are concentrating more and the Iraqis are 
concentrating more there. I went to the marketplace there. I did not 
have any helicopters over the top. I went through, I took an 
interpreter, I stopped and talked to people on the street, and they are 
so appreciative of what we are doing there, and it is no wonder that 
they are.

I just have to say that these relationships have formed. The term 
they are using is the ''brotherhood of the close fight.'' I give 
General Petraeus credit for engineering a lot of these things.

Lastly, I would say--you may not believe me because you know I have a 
strong feeling about defending America, and you might say I am 
prejudiced. Yes, I was on the House Armed Services Committee for years 
and then on the Senate Armed Services Committee for the last 12 years, 
and so I watch and see what is happening. I recognize we need to 
rebuild America's military now to be able to meet future challenges 
like this.

I would only say this: Everything that I have now said, if you don't 
believe it--and I thought I would never recommend to my conservative 
friends that they ever watch CNN, but I am going ask them to go ahead 
and watch CNN this time, and there is someone named Nick Robertson who 
asked to go along to some of these stations I went to two nights ago, 
the joint security stations. They are giving a report, and you will be 
shocked to find out that even CNN, which has been no friend of our 
President and no friend of our efforts in Iraq, is now coming out with 
reports that are saying exactly what I am saying right here.

So have your good time. Stand up and take your bows and criticize the 
President and criticize the effort in Iraq and criticize our soldiers. 
Let me tell you, they are doing a good job, we are winning there, and 
this information I share with you is just 1 day old.



With that, I yield the floor.

Let me ask how much time I used off of my amendment time.