---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `74f63c2cfe048394720ee562412a4799`
`Mr. LOTT — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I obviously rise in support of the cloture 
motion and in support of the nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick to be 
confirmed to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.

I begin by thanking Senator Reid for allowing this nomination to be 
called up and even considered. He doesn't have to do that as our 
leader, but he should be commended by those of us who support Judge 
Southwick for his willingness to allow the nomination to be debated and 
considered.

Mr. President, I wish to express my appreciation to the very studied 
and careful job that Senator Feinstein has done with regard to this 
nominee. I know it has not been easy, but I also know that she has 
taken time, she has been patient, she has done her homework. I am sure 
she has endured criticism. She has shown tonight that she is truly one 
of the outstanding lions or lionesses, I guess, is the correct word, of 
the Senate. She has shown courage.

She and I have worked together. Sometimes we have lost when we have 
worked together, and sometimes we have succeeded. But we have tried to 
do the right thing for the Senate and for our country. I have nothing 
but the utmost admiration and appreciation for the position she has 
taken. I actually am hesitant to proceed after her comments because 
they were so careful and so well thought out and presented.

I do think that I would like to put a few remarks into the Record 
tonight,


and I will add additional items tomorrow. I thank Senator Feinstein so 
much. What she did tonight with regard to this nominee and how she is 
going to vote tomorrow is the kind of thing, I believe, that will 
affect in a positive way the nominations of other men and women in the 
future in the Senate. We have worked together on nominees from 
California in the past, and I stood against a filibuster then, and I am 
proud I did. I have voted for nominees, such as Justice Ginsburg, 
because I thought it was right.

I also have been a party to and have observed conduct in the Senate 
by my colleagues on this side of the aisle that I am sorry about, I 
regret. But how do we ever stop the slide downhill by the Republicans 
and then by the Democrats and then again by the Republicans? When can 
we rise above that type of personal and partisan attack and consider 
these nominations and legislation in a more respectful and responsible 
way?

I believe Senator Feinstein has taken that first step that can lead 
to other steps, and we will stop this slide I have observed occurring 
more and more each year for 10 years. Now maybe this is the moment, 
maybe this will be the catalyst that will lead to other steps on this 
side of the aisle and on the other side of the aisle so that we will 
treat these nominations and legislation in a proper way.

I thank the Senator for staying and allowing me to commend her. I 
hope it doesn't get her into too much trouble, but I admire the Senator 
very much.

I do want to recognize the remarks made by Senator Specter of 
Pennsylvania and the thorough job he did in referring to particular 
cases. I don't want to repeat the cases that have been mentioned here 
tonight, or go over his whole resume again, but I wish to take a moment 
to maybe highlight some of the parts of that resume of this very 
distinguished nominee.


I also want to note the presence of the senior Senator from 
Mississippi, my colleague Senator Cochran. He and I have been in the 
Congress for 35 years. We were in the House together. He came to the 
Senate, and 10 years later I came to the Senate. One of the things I 
did when I came to the Senate, I sat down and talked to Senator Cochran 
about how to consider nominees for the Federal judiciary, because he 
was on the Judiciary Committee. He had some very good, helpful, and 
simple advice. Basically, he said if they are from your State, 
certainly if they are personally repugnant, you can vote against them. 
But basically, he said, if they are qualified by education and by 
experience and by temperament, you should be supportive. Kind of 
simple, but it was a thoughtful suggestion to me that came from this 
experienced member of the Judiciary Committee, and I have tried to do 
that, and I will continue to do so.

I do believe very strongly that this nominee is obviously well 
qualified. One of the things that was noted about his outstanding 
academic record was that he graduated cum laude from Rice University, a 
well-known and well-respected academic institution. He didn't just 
graduate with honors, he graduated cum laude, right at the top. He 
later graduated from the University of Texas School Of Law, where he 
also had an outstanding record academically.

When he came to the State of Mississippi, he continued that record of 
success. He worked with one of the most revered members of the Fifth 
Circuit, Chief Judge Charles Clark, one of the most outstanding jurists 
I have ever observed in my career of watching our Federal judiciary.

When he went to work for a law firm, he didn't go with just any law 
firm, he went with one of the State's very best--Brunini, Grantham, 
Grower, and Hewes, where he became a partner. At every step along his 
career, he didn't do just well, he excelled in how he handled himself 
in the positions he had, and he continued that when he went on the 
court of appeals.

A lot has been made about the fact that he has served in the 
Mississippi National Guard. He reached the rank of lieutenant colonel. 
He didn't just serve as a reservist to meetings of the National Guard, 
he was actively involved with the 155th Separate Armored Brigade. And, 
of course, he went with the 155th Brigade Combat Team and was mobilized 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom. So even there he took risks. He was 
involved in a way at his age that wouldn't ordinarily have been 
expected. This further shows that he is a unique individual in terms of 
his education and his experience.

But more than anything else, with rare exception, I have never seen a 
more qualified nominee to be an appellate court judge; not just a 
Federal judge, but an appellate court judge. His experience has been in 
the Mississippi appellate court system, where he presided or 
participated over 7,000 cases. That point has already been made, but 
that is an extraordinarily large number of cases for him to be involved 
with over these several years that he was a member of the appellate 
court in Mississippi.

In terms of the kind of man he is, let me read one part of one letter 
from one of the most revered and respected former Governors of our 
State of Mississippi, a Governor who has a very progressive record of 
leadership and of civil rights issues, and who has continued until this 
very day to work for racial reconciliation and heads an organization at 
the University of Mississippi dedicated to that purpose. This is a 
Democrat. This is what most people would acknowledge in Mississippi 
would be one of your more moderate to liberal Democrats. Knowing him, 
he probably doesn't like those labels, but he has a record of 
involvement in those areas where this nominee has been challenged or 
criticized. This is what William Winter, our former Governor, said:




 I further know him to be a very intelligent, conscientious, 


 ethical and hard-working member of the legal profession. I 


 have a great deal of personal respect for him and based upon 


 my association with him I believe he will reflect fairness 


 and objectivity in his approach to all matters which may come 


 before him as a judge.


I don't know what higher recommendation you could have from our 
State, from a member of the opposite party, and a former Governor of 
our State. So he knows the background of this nominee.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
the entirety of the letter of William F. Winter.