# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `74f8e50afe63d0019c3550d6670dff1a`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, like H.R. 2237, this bill has 
serious flaws. However, while I could not vote for H.R. 2237, which 
would have required rapid withdrawal of troops from Iraq, I will vote 
for this emergency supplemental appropriations bill.

I could not support H.R. 2237 for two reasons:

First, I do not support the idea of rigidly insisting on a date 
certain for withdrawing U.S. combat troops from Iraq. I remain 
convinced that we should steer clear of arbitrary public deadlines for 
military actions and focus instead on realistic diplomatic and 
political goals.

Second, I am very troubled by the provision that would prohibit 
funding for troops described as being part of the ''surge.''

My concerns do not reflect support for the administration's strategy. 
On the contrary, I still think an open-ended escalation--and that is 
the reality behind the Administration talk about a ''surge''--is no 
substitute for what is really needed, which is a strategy for 
containing civil war and a wider regional war.

That is why in January, I voted against President Bush's plan to 
increase the number of troops deployed in Iraq--a course he took 
against the best advice of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, military 
leaders, and other policy experts who have warned against extending our 
military commitment in Iraq.

But now nearly 14,000 additional troops have been deployed, and I 
think it would be irresponsible to vote to cut funding for their 
weapons and equipment and for all they need to keep them alive and 
fighting for our country in the midst of Iraq's civil war.

In short, while I remain convinced that it was a strategic mistake to 
go to war in Iraq in the way that the Bush administration did, the fact 
is that we are still deeply engaged there--and while our troops are in 
the field, we must provide them what they need.

On the other hand, I will vote for H.R. 2206, the revised 
Supplemental Appropriations bill, primarily for the same reason that I 
voted for the previous supplemental appropriations bill.

I believe we must vote to provide America's men and women in uniform 
with the equipment and resources they need and with the best health 
care they may require when they come home. I think it would be grossly 
irresponsible not to provide these resources.

And we must hold the president accountable to the benchmarks set by 
his own administration and the Iraqi government--including enactment of 
a hydro-carbon law; conducting of provincial and local elections; 
reform of current laws governing the de-Baathification process; 
amendment of the Constitution of Iraq; and allocation of Iraqi revenues 
for reconstruction projects.

The bill seeks to hold the president accountable by ''fencing'' half 
the funds until the Secretary of Defense reports on meeting the 
benchmarks and Congress votes again to release the remaining funds.

I am not convinced that is a workable approach. But, I do not think 
its effectiveness will be tested, because I do not think it will become 
law in its present form--partly because the president has said he will 
veto it if it should reach his desk and partly because every indication 
is that the Senate will take a different approach.

Under these circumstances, I think the most important thing is for 
the House to pass a supplemental appropriations bill today and then to 
proceed to a conference with the Senate without further delay. I hope 
that the result will be a bill that will both provide essential funding 
for our troops and also hold the president accountable--but for that 
hope to be realized, it is necessary for the House to act today, and so 
I will vote for the supplemental appropriations bill now before us.