---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `74fc025f152eb61e207a92ce5b54c044`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Madam President, today, I would like to speak in strong 
support of the Levin-McCain amendment which strips $1.75 billion in 
spending for additional F-22s. These are fighter jets the military does 
not want and does not need. This is a Cold War system, in a post-9/11 
world, that is underperforming and overpriced. To force this purchase, 
against the best judgment of our military leadership and Commander in 
Chief, weakens our ability to keep our Nation safe.


The White House and Pentagon agree that continuing the F-22 
production line decreases our military readiness by wasting resources 
that could be much more usefully employed. And it is not a partisan 
issue. Presidents Obama and Bush; Defense Secretaries Gates and 
Rumsfeld; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mullen, and 
his two predecessors; and the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force all agree that the F-22 is not the most efficient or effective 
warplane to meet our current and future defense needs.

The F-22 has not flown one mission over Afghanistan or Iraq, because 
it is not the best weapon to meet the challenges we are currently 
facing.

This system was designed to counter Soviet fighters at the end of the 
Cold War. And its continued purchase deprives the military of $1.75 
billion it requested for other critical priorities, such as building 
the capability to protect our troops and defeat insurgencies.

With ongoing wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, we cannot afford to 
disregard the views of our military. And in these tough economic times, 
we cannot afford to adopt an irresponsible approach to defense 
spending. These facts speak for themselves, and the stakes are simply 
too high. What more evidence do we need?

The F-22 prepares us for the wars of the past; the wars we have 
already won. Today, we must look forward and make tough decisions for 
the future. We must heed the advice of our military leaders, such as 
Secretary Gates, to rebalance our defense budget. And enhance our 
capabilities to succeed against current and future threats. This 
includes preparing for a wide spectrum of conflict and continuing to 
engage in counterinsurgency.

Madam President, this debate is not just about the future of F-22s. 
It is about changing the way we do business. It is about accepting this 
rebalancing and ending unnecessary waste. And it is about matching 
vital national security interests with commensurate levels of funding.

The F-22 is the first test of our willingness to make the tough 
choices necessary to truly prioritize defense spending.

As Secretary Gates said last week:




 The grim reality is that with regard to the budget, we have 


 entered into a zero-sum game. Every defense dollar diverted 


 to fund excess or unneeded capacity--whether for more F-22s 


 or anything else--is a dollar that will be unavailable to 


 take care of our people, to win the wars we are in, to deter 


 potential adversaries, and to improve capabilities in areas 


 where America is underinvested and potentially vulnerable. 


 That is a risk I cannot accept and I will not take.


Madam President, I want to align myself with the remarks of Secretary 
Gates, and reiterate to my colleagues that this is a risk none of us 
should be willing to take.

Many of my colleagues have spoken of the sacrifice and cost such a 
decision incurs in terms of jobs. They are right, and I share their 
concern about jobs; especially in these tough times. I know this makes 
our decision today hard, and no one wants to do anything that will 
hinder job creation and growth. But it is with these economic 
constraints in mind that we must also consider the implications of 
spending nearly $2 billion on a defense program that our military 
leadership says it simply does not need.

Building more F-22s does not allow for smart or efficient growth of 
our workforce. Moreover, the number of jobs lost on the F-22 will 
likely be matched by increased production of the F-35, which is a newer 
and more capable warplane. American workers are needed to meet this and 
other defense priorities, which strengthen our national security. Jobs 
should follow, as opposed to dictate, our defense needs.

For those concerned about cuts, I point out that the budget proposed 
by the President and Secretary Gates represents an increase, not a 
decrease, in defense spending. But this is not just an increase for the 
sake of spending.

Rather, it is a budget that recognizes that over the last two 
decades, the nature of conflict and war has fundamentally changed. It 
recognizes that we must continue to build the capacity to confront a 
wide spectrum of challenges--conventional and unconventional; regular 
and irregular--and better prepare for a future in which we will 
continue to engage in counterinsurgency.

Today, we must do what is in America's best interest. Today, we must 
focus on weapons systems that offer the maximum versatility and 
effectiveness, and prepare the military against the widest range of 
threats. And today, we must plan for our current and future 
counterinsurgency needs, as shaped by our experiences in Afghanistan 
and Iraq.

It is in this regard that I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting the Levin-McCain amendment, and adopt a better approach to 
defense spending.

Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.