---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `75018ba35963ca17b0348bbd36f1c3f8`
`Mr. GRAYSON — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. GRAYSON. Madam Speaker, I have good news.

The good news is this: We won the war in Afghanistan. Now, it 
happened a while ago; so I may be the only person who actually 
remembers this, but after the 9/11 attack, within 3 months, we had 
expelled the Taliban government, and we did so with the use of only 
1,000 U.S. Special Forces troops. Within 4 months, we had expelled al 
Qaeda from Afghanistan. If you don't believe me about that, you can 
listen to General Petraeus, who said a year ago that al Qaeda wasn't in 
Afghanistan anymore.

I have more good news about Iraq. The news is: We won. We won the war 
in Iraq years and years ago. Facing the fourth largest army in the 
entire world, we swept through Iraq, and within 3 weeks, we had deposed 
the Saddam Hussein government.

We won. Now we can go home. In fact, we could have gone home a long 
time ago.

What is happening now in Afghanistan and what is happening now in 
Iraq you can't even call a war. It is a foreign occupation. You could 
read the Constitution from beginning to end, and you would find nothing 
in the Constitution that permits or that authorizes a foreign 
occupation, much less one that goes on for almost a decade. Both in the 
price of money and in the price of blood, we simply can't afford these 
wars anymore.

I would like to call your attention to a report in the New England 
Journal of Medicine, a report dated January 31, 2008. This report reads 
that 15 percent of all the troops who have served in Iraq return with 
permanent brain damage. That's right. Permanent brain damage. Here are 
some of the symptoms described: a loss of consciousness, general poor 
health, missed workdays, medical visits, and a high number of somatic 
and postconcussive symptoms.

Later on in the report, on page 459, this report reads that, in this 
study, nearly 15 percent of soldiers reported an injury during 
deployment that involves a loss of consciousness or altered mental 
state. These soldiers, defined as having what is euphemistically 
referred to as mild traumatic brain injury, were significantly more 
likely to report high combat exposure in a blast mechanism of injury 
than were the 17 percent of soldiers who reported other injuries.

So, Mr. President, when you say that you are sending 50,000 more 
troops to Afghanistan, what you are really saying is that you are 
condemning 7,500 young Americans to live for the rest of their lives 
with brain damage. That's what you are really saying.

Beyond that, we have spent over $3 trillion on the war in Iraq. 
That's over $10,000 for every man, woman, and child in this country. 
It's over $70,000 for my family of seven. For what? What have we 
accomplished in 2010 that we could not have accomplished in 2009 or in 
2008 or in 2007 or in 2006?

In fact, what have you heard from the other side today that they 
couldn't have said back then and that they will want to say next year 
and the year after that?

Now think about this: Our total national wealth is only $50 trillion. 
We have spent $3 trillion, 6 percent of that, on the war in Iraq. That 
kind of economic damage is something that could not have possibly been 
accomplished by al Qaeda itself. Osama bin Laden, on his best day, 
couldn't have done anything like that. He would have had to have 
vaporized all of New England to have come close.

Listen, we are the most powerful nation on Earth. Nobody can force us 
out of Iraq. Nobody can force us out of Afghanistan. We have to make 
that decision ourselves. Remember, we need not only strength; we need 
wisdom. We need to know that the worst things that happen to us as a 
country are the things that we do to ourselves, including these two 
wars.