# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `75017b7bf21968c4774b491a1781913d`
`Mr. HAGEL — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleagues, Senators 
Warner, Collins, and others, in offering this amendment to the 
continuing resolution.

Last week, Senators Collins, Snowe, Smith, Voinovich, Coleman, and 
myself sent a letter to the Senate leadership urging our distinguished 
majority and minority leaders to reach an agreement so the Senate could 
debate the war in Iraq.

We said, and I quote from that letter:




 The current stalemate is unacceptable to us and to the 


 people of this country.


In the letter, we pledged to--again quoting the letter--''explore all 
of our options under the Senate procedures and practices to ensure a 
full and open debate on the Senate floor.'' That, of course, is why we 
are here today.

I, similar to my colleagues, am deeply disappointed that a full and 
open debate on Iraq remains stymied in the Senate. All Members--Members 
of both parties--have the right and responsibility to present their 
views and, if they choose, submit other resolutions regarding the war 
in Iraq.

I am also deeply disappointed that both sides have used procedural 
tactics in this process. My colleagues and I were assured that the 
leaders were committed to reaching an agreement on this debate. That 
has not yet happened, and I, similar to my colleagues, intend to do 
everything in my power as a Senator to ensure a full and open debate of 
the Iraq war on the Senate floor in front of the American people. We 
owe it to our soldiers and their families, and we owe it to the 
American people.

I wish to focus on one particular aspect of this debate and that has 
to do with the resolution itself--the relevancy and importance of 
Senate resolutions. In the last 15 years, there is ample, strong, and 
significant precedent in the Senate debating a President's military 
policies while troops are deployed overseas--Bosnia, Somalia, Haiti, 
Kosovo. In each of those situations, I and many of my colleagues here 
today in the Senate debated and most of us voted binding and nonbinding 
resolutions regarding U.S. military operations abroad. Many of these 
measures expressed opposition to the military operations, criticizing, 
for example, one, the open-ended nature of the deployment; two, the 
danger of mission creep or escalation of military involvement; three, 
the danger of deploying U.S. forces into sectarian conflict; and four, 
the failure of the President to consult with Congress.

It might be instructive to review some of the Senate's history on 
these recent debates regarding these recent resolutions. Let me begin 
with Bosnia.

In June of 1992, U.S. forces began to deploy to Bosnia. In December 
1995, the United States was preparing to deploy substantial ground 
forces into Bosnia, roughly 20,000 American ground force combat troops, 
very similar to the number we are now looking at in the President's 
escalation of more American troops into Iraq today.

As a result of President Clinton's decision in 1995, the Senate 
considered Senate Concurrent Resolution 35, a resolution submitted by 
our colleague from Texas, the senior Senator, Mrs. Hutchison. This 
resolution was a nonbinding resolution. Again, this was a nonbinding 
resolution. This resolution said:




 The Congress opposes President Clinton's decision to deploy 


 United States military ground forces into the Republic of 


 Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement the General Framework 


 Agreement for peace 


 in Bosnia. . . .


This resolution also said:




 Congress strongly supports the United States military 


 personnel who may be ordered by the President to implement 


 the general framework for the peace in Bosnia.





So, therefore, it is saying we support our troops, but we disapprove 
of the President's policy to send more troops. This resolution also 
said it was a continuation of the previous debate on support of the 
troops already deployed.

As Senator Hutchison said on the Senate floor on December 13:




 There are many of us who do not think that this is the 


 right mission, but who are going to go full force to support 


 our troops. In fact, we believe we are supporting our troops 


 in the most effective way by opposing this mission because we 


 think it is the wrong one. . . .


A month earlier in November 1995, Senator Hutchison framed the 
complexities of our military intervention in Bosnia in terms that are 
eerily relevant to today. She said:




 I am very concerned that we are also setting a precedent 


 for our troops to be deployed on the ground in border 


 conflicts, in ethnic conflicts, in civil wars. . . .


Opposition to the President's policy but strong support for the U.S. 
military--this is similar to the debate we are having today on Iraq.

Senator Hutchison's resolution had 28 cosponsors, including our 
friends and colleagues, Senators Inhofe, Craig, Kyl, Lott, Bennett, 
Hatch, Shelby, and Stevens.

On December 13, 1995, 47 Senators voted in favor of Senator 
Hutchison's nonbinding resolution. That day, 47 Senators believed you 
could oppose the President's policy but still support our troops.

The next day, December 14, 1995, the Senate considered Senate Joint 
Resolution 44, a binding resolution introduced by Senator Dole. This 
resolution supported U.S. troops in Bosnia. This resolution had six 
cosponsors, including our colleagues, Senators McCain and Lieberman.

On December 14, 1995, the Senate adopted this resolution by a vote of 
69 to 30. That was Bosnia in 1995.

Somalia: In December 1992, U.S. troops began to deploy to Somalia. 
Nearly a year later, in September 1993, the Senate debated the 
objectives, the mission, and strategy of our military deployment in 
Somalia. Speaking on the Senate floor on September 23, 1993, Senator 
McCain framed the debate when he said:




 Somalia is a prime example of lofty ambitions gone awry. 


 Our service men and women have become . . . part of a mission 


 to build Somalia into a stable democracy--something, 


 incidentally, it has never been, and shows no sign of ever 


 becoming this decade.



 The manner in which military force is to be used to further 


 this grandiose objective has been left unclear. Without a 


 clear military objective, our forces in Somalia have found 


 themselves involved in a situation where they cannot 


 distinguish between friend and foe. They have often been 


 presented with situations where they cannot even distinguish 


 between civilians and combatants.


On September 9, the Senate voted 90 to 7 to adopt a nonbinding--a 
nonbinding--sense-of-Congress resolution submitted by Senator Byrd. 
This resolution called on the President to outline the goals, 
objectives, and duration of the U.S. deployment in Somalia and said 
Congress believes the President ''should seek and receive congressional 
authorization in order for the deployment of U.S. forces to Somalia to 
continue.''

There are 11 cosponsors of the Byrd measure, including our 
colleagues, Senators McCain, Cochran, Bond, and Warner.

One month later, after the horrible death of 18 U.S. troops in early 
October, the Senate considered two binding measures to cut off funds, 
one introduced by Senator McCain and one by Senator Byrd.

On October 15, 1993, the McCain measure, which would have terminated 
further U.S. military operations in Somalia, was tabled 61 to 38. That 
same day, the Senate voted 76 to 23 to adopt the Byrd measure to cut 
off all funding in March 1994 for U.S. forces in Somalia.

There are two more very clear examples, such as the examples I have 
given on Somalia and Bosnia, that I could discuss--Haiti and Kosovo--in 
some detail, and I may do that later. But the point is, the facts are 
clear. There is clear precedent--clear precedent--for both binding and 
nonbinding resolutions, as well as legislation to redirect, condition 
or cut off funds for military operations, and this is at the same time 
we have and we had military forces in those countries.

So to argue, to state, to imply this is somehow not only irrelevant 
but unprecedented is not the case. The Congress has always had a 
responsibility, not just constitutionally but morally, to inject itself 
in the great debate of war.