---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `75065eb1421a4b0a7e9a3ea6f11c4c17`
`Ms. COLLINS — 21 January 2009`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of the 
confirmation of Senator Hillary Clinton to be our next Secretary of 
State. Last Thursday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
overwhelmingly approved Senator Clinton to become our Nation's top 
diplomat. I rise today to echo the committee's approval and to urge my 
colleagues to vote in favor of her confirmation.

Senator Clinton's many years of public service make her an 
outstanding nominee for Secretary of State. In her confirmation 
hearing, the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, 
Senator Lugar, spoke of Senator Clinton as ''the epitome of a big 
leaguer,'' who has remarkable qualifications for the post of Secretary 
of State. The committee chairman, Senator Kerry, shared his faith in 
her qualifications and abilities, having seen her ''diplomatic acumen 
up close.'' He also said that Senator Clinton did an outstanding job in 
her testimony before the committee, as those of us who observed the 
hearings can affirm.

Senator Clinton is the ''first'' First Lady of the United States 
elected to public office. As First Lady, she traveled the world for 8 
years, visiting more than 80 countries. In doing so, she took an active 
role in helping to carry out our Nation's foreign policy and was an 
advocate for our Nation. She not only met with foreign leaders at the 
highest levels of government, but she made it a hallmark of her trips 
to visit villages, clinics, and other remote areas, learning firsthand 
the importance of a foreign policy founded at the most basic levels of 
humanity.

During my service in the Senate, I have had the opportunity to work 
very closely with Senator Clinton on a number of issues, particularly 
since we both serve as fellow members of the Armed Services Committee. 
We have worked together tirelessly to improve the detection, 
assessment, and treatment of traumatic brain injury among wounded 
servicemembers.

We also cochaired the Alzheimer's Task Force and have worked together 
to increase funding for research into this devastating disease.

Senator Clinton and I have had the opportunity to travel with Senator


McCain to Iraq and Afghanistan. I witnessed her world knowledge and 
authoritative approach to foreign policy. I have seen her tireless work 
ethic and intelligence up close, as well as her ability to engage with 
colleagues across the aisle to get the job done and to meet the needs 
of the American people.

I will always remember one meeting in particular that we had together 
in Afghanistan. Senator Clinton and I broke off from the group to go 
meet with a group of Afghan women from all walks of life. I was so 
impressed with Senator Clinton's engagement with these women, with her 
genuine interest and the details of their lives, whether it was their 
access to health care or the education for their children. She was very 
engaged in the conversations despite the fact that we had traveled all 
night and were extremely tired.

Her caring, her compassion came across in her conversations with 
these women. I know these qualities--her caring, her compassion, her 
commitment, her extraordinary preparation and intelligence--will serve 
her well and will serve our country well as Secretary of State.

Today our Nation faces many pressing challenges abroad. The 
challenges are many, not only in Afghanistan and Iraq but security in 
the Middle East and the safety of the people of Israel, and the 
dangerous situation in Pakistan. I am encouraged by Senator Clinton's 
commitment to a foreign policy and a national security strategy that is 
built on bipartisan consensus and executed with nonpartisan commitment 
and confidence. She has promised a foreign policy based on principles 
and pragmatism, not rigid ideology; facts and evidence, not emotion or 
prejudice.

I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of her 
confirmation, and I echo the suggestion of Senator McCain that we get 
on with this as she is an extraordinary nominee and deserves our 
support.