---
---

# None
## `750c8956f8e0a4227271f87c6b29f11d`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise today to address a serious issue 
and that is the dramatically rising cost of energy and its impact on 
American families. The problem with rising gas prices compounds the 
pain felt in the American economy. Today we learned the economy had 
stalled to a paltry .6-percent growth rate. If you factor out the 
highest 10 percent in income, the remaining 90 percent of Americans are 
clearly experiencing a recession. Only people at the very high end--the 
wealthiest, the best educated, by and large--are experiencing 
significant increases in income, and when you factor that out, 
everybody else is experiencing decreases in income. The vast majority 
of Americans are already in a recession, and they do not need any 
statistic to tell them that.

It is also obvious from today's data that the entire economy has 
stalled. The last time we had two significant quarters such as this, we 
were battling a recession in the 1990s. Americans are being squeezed at 
every possible pressure point--at the gas pump--I am going to talk 
about this issue later--the grocery store, by their mortgage company, 
and by their employers. Just because President Bush will not say the 
word does not mean Americans are not feeling like we are in a 
recession. If we look at income numbers for most Americans, that is 
absolutely true.

It is long past time for the President to work with the Congress to 
help get this economy and American families back on track. If President 
Bush simply gives speeches and brings out the same old saws, we know he 
does not want to work with us. He is simply trying to say: I am out 
here talking about this, but there is no real solution. Imagine, the 
solution to the oil crisis is ANWR, the Alaskan oil reserve, which has 
been defeated even in a Republican-controlled Congress, which would not 
produce a drop of oil for 10 years and would bring no relief to the 
American driver. But I guess it is better than saying nothing, at least 
if you are the President of the United States.

With regular gasoline prices in States such as mine already over 
$3.75 a gallon--over $4 a gallon in many other States--and with the 
entire national average threatening to surpass $4 a gallon this summer, 
it is no surprise Americans are outraged as they hear about record 
profits for both the big oil companies and OPEC. Sometimes I wonder if 
there is any difference because OPEC and the big oil companies are 
almost always in cahoots.

Gas prices are 63 cents higher than last year, more than double in 
the time since President Bush took office, and they show no intention 
of slowing down. Shockingly, our very own President responded with a 
surprise to a question at the end of February about the likelihood of 
$4-a-gallon gasoline by saying:




 That's interesting. I hadn't heard that.


Well, Mr. President, I hope you hear us now because gas is at $4 a 
gallon already in many places in America, and it is only going higher. 
The only people who are happy about $4-a-gallon gasoline are big oil 
companies and OPEC in the Middle East.

We know the reason prices keep going up, of course, is in good part, 
world demand is increasing. We know, too, in the long run, we will not 
be able to reverse this price increase if we do not have a real energy 
policy. In fact, we have had no energy policy since President Bush took 
office. If you think it is energy policy to say let the oil companies 
do what they want, you are sadly mistaken. That is why we have $4-a-
gallon gasoline.

This administration's energy policy is simply of, by, and for big oil 
and OPEC, of course, their partners, their buddies benefit. So in the 
long run, we need a comprehensive plan. We need conservation--that is 
the cheapest and easiest way to get lower prices--and we need new 
production of alternatives and also, in a reasonable and sound 
environmental way, new production of fossil fuels in America.

But we are also looking for some short-term ways to reduce the price 
of gasoline because even should we embark on a long-term energy policy 
that makes sense--and I am hopeful under the next administration, the 
new President, she or he, will make sure that happens--there are things 
we can at least attempt to do in the short term because people cannot 
wait 4, 5, 6 years to begin reducing the price. Even if tomorrow we 
were to implement a comprehensive policy, it would not be enough, it 
would not happen quickly enough.

So what can be done in the short term? One of the most important 
things that could be done quickly in the short term is to increase 
supply in existing reserves. The one country that has ample supply and 
has held back is our good ''ally''--and I use that word in quotes--the 
Saudis. The Saudis should


begin to understand that their relationship with America is a two-way 
street. They want our weapons, they want our troops to provide them 
with protection, but then they rake us over the coals when it comes to 
the price of oil.

The Saudis and big oil are in cahoots, and this administration has 
coddled both of them for far too long. There is no better evidence of 
this cozy cooperation than BP and Shell reporting record earnings this 
week and ExxonMobil and others on deck to do the same.

The bottom line--the sad bottom line--is the whole Bush tax cut for 
middle-class families this year will line the pockets of OPEC. Let me 
repeat that. The whole Bush tax cut for middle-class families this year 
will line the pockets of OPEC. People will pay out more because of the 
increase in energy prices than they got back on any tax rebate. The 
stimulus checks we are all so proud people are receiving, the stimulus 
checks families will receive in the mail next month will, in all 
likelihood, go to paying eye-popping gas and grocery bills this summer 
and end up in the coffers of countries such as Saudi Arabia. Therefore, 
people will pay more for gasoline this year than they will receive from 
their stimulus checks. It is galling to think our stimulus checks will 
be lining the pockets of OPEC.

Yet despite all this, last week, Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister said 
there was no need to increase supplies by even one barrel of oil. 
However, as they are saying no, no, no to U.S. consumers, the Saudis 
are planning to double oil production for China.


Despite record billion-dollar profits, it seems the big oil 
producers, such as Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait, 
are willing to turn a blind eye to the supply demands and leave 
Americans with skyrocketing prices at the pump. In Saudi's case, they 
have not produced as much oil in the last 2 years as they did in 2005.

I urge my colleagues to take a look at this chart when they get a 
chance because it says it all. Here is Saudi oil production in 2005. It 
is lower in 2006 and lower still in 2007. This is not new production 
they have to explore for, this is not something where they have to 
change things around. They can order the new production and we could 
have millions of extra barrels of oil a day out there in the markets 
within a month or two, and the price would come down significantly.

The countries are putting profits straight into their pockets. So 
that is why I, along with four others of my colleagues, have demanded 
the Bush administration stipulate that Saudi Arabia, the United Arab 
Emirates, and Kuwait must increase their oil production or risk that 
Congress will block their lucrative arms deals while they stick it to 
American consumers at the gas pump.

The administration has proposed selling roughly $14 billion in arms 
to gulf countries that are members of OPEC, and it is clear to us that 
without pressure from this administration, oil prices will continue to 
rise as countries such as Saudi Arabia will continue to reap the reward 
of high prices.

It is terrible that this administration, after making the American 
taxpayer foot the bill for its war in Iraq, is now rewarding the very 
countries that are driving up the price of oil.

Congress has the authority to block these arms deals, and we want to 
put the administration on notice that if they fail to deal aggressively 
with OPEC countries that are not producing at their full capacity, we 
will seriously consider blocking this and other arms deals.

On their face, I question the merit of these deals, $14 billion in 
arms, but it is particularly egregious when Americans are paying 
through the nose to put money in the pockets of the administration's 
friends in the Middle East. OPEC nations may have to protect themselves 
with these weapons systems, but American consumers and our economy also 
need protection from high oil prices, exacerbated by OPEC's 
stranglehold on supply.

The administration needs to use all the leverage it has to influence 
the OPEC cartel to stop manipulating the world's oil supply to its 
member nations.

Again, to those who say we cannot do anything in the short term to 
reduce prices, look again at this chart. Saudi production in 2005, 
Saudi production in 2006, Saudi production in the last full year we 
have numbers for, 2007, it is lower and lower. The Saudis have not kept 
the supply flat; they have decreased it at a time when the world is 
thirsty for oil.

At a time when the world is thirsty for oil, we know they are driving 
down supply, increasing the price. Yesterday, President Bush said there 
is not much you can do about the price of oil. Mr. President, we beg to 
differ. Get your friends, the Saudis, get your close buddy, the King of 
Saudi Arabia, to begin producing more oil. If they produce half a 
million more barrels of oil a day, the price would come down a very 
significant amount and at the same time it would stop the speculation 
that keeps driving up the price of oil. We would get a double benefit.

We need to ask ourselves what the economic consequences are for our 
Nation--not only from the long and expensive war in Iraq but from this 
administration's cozy relationship with the only international 
organization he seems to have any high regard for--OPEC.

I yield the floor.