# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `750f2e580b93bcce6e53e47ca5d0ba01`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the 
Republican Leadership standards on earmarks, I am submitting the 
following information regarding earmarks I received as part of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson 

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: University of South Carolina

Address of Requesting Entity: 208 Osborne Building--Pendleton Street, 
Columbia, SC 29208

Description of Request: I have secured $6,000,000 for the Brain 
Injury Recovery Clinic at the University of South Carolina. Soldiers 
returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan are experiencing an increased 
number of head injuries related to blasts and explosions compared to 
soldiers of previous conflicts. It is therefore important for us to 
understand blast injury, its pathophysiology, methods for detecting 
traumatic brain injury, and how these soldiers can be best treated. 
Mechanisms of brain injury in war are unlike those of most injuries 
encountered in civilian life. The University of South Carolina has 
established a priority focus area on the study of brain injury and 
developed novel treatment possibilities to treat head injuries. This 
funding will establish a brain injury recovery clinic for returning 
soldiers at the University of South Carolina and study better and more 
efficient ways to treat blast-related head injuries. This research 
clinic will also provide jobs for the economically depressed Columbia, 
SC region. Matching funding ($6M) from the State of South Carolina is 
available by housing this Brain Injury Recovery Clinic in the newly 
constructed Discovery 1 research building. This new research building 
is located in the Innovista portion of the University of South Carolina 
campus. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial 
interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Other Procurement, Air Force

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: South Carolina Air National Guard

Address of Requesting Entity: McEntire JNGB, 1325 South Carolina Rd., 
Eastover, SC 29044

Description of Request: I have secured $2,000,000 for the South 
Carolina Air National Guard Eagle Vision Upgrade. Eagle Vision (EV) is 
a USAF mobile satellite imagery collection and processing system 
assigned to the SC ANG that will be used as a wartime resource in the 
war on terrorism as well as a counter drug and Homeland Security asset 
in the United States. Funding would upgrade the EV system at McEntire 
JNGB to include a 1 meter infrared capability. Emergency planners and 
responders would be able to look through clouds and smoke with infrared 
enabling them to plan responses during an emergency instead of reacting 
afterward. Matching funds are not applicable. I certify that neither I 
nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson 

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Other Procurement, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Trenton Plastics

Address of Requesting Entity: 601 E Wise Street, Trenton, SC 29847

Description of Request: I have secured $5,000,000 for Trenton 
Plastics for the High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV). 
The appropriation of $5,000,000 for fire suppression kits (fuel tank 
fire suppression FIRE Panels) will be applied to existing HMMWVs and 
new production HMMWVs or ECV2s. The FIRE Panel product is applied to 
fuel tanks and mitigates the fire and secondary explosions that occur 
when unprotected fuel tanks are attacked by Improvised Explosive 
Devices, Rocket Propelled Grenades or Explosively Formed Penetrators. 
FIRE Panels consist of a hard, durable plastic shell (blow molded by 
Trenton Plastics) that are then filled with ''Black Widow'', a highly 
effective dry chemical fire suppression agent. These FIRE Panels can be 
formed/blow molded to fit any style of fuel tank. Insurgents, over


the past several years, consistently target fuel tanks on vehicles 
because of the large secondary fires and explosions that they cause. 
These fires and secondary explosions have increased the number of 
solider and marine related deaths due to the fires, increased the 
number of soldiers and marines with severe burn injuries and cause the 
destruction and total loss of vehicles. By installing FIRE Panels on 
HMMWVs the Army will experience fewer losses of lives, reduce medical 
costs for transport, acute care and long term care related to burn 
injuries and save vehicles. Matching funds are not applicable. I 
certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this 
project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: South Carolina Research Authority

Address of Requesting Entity: 1330 Lady Street, No. 503, Columbia, SC 
29201

Description of Request: I have secured $8,200,000 for the South 
Carolina Research Authority's Highly Integrated Production for 
Expediting Reset (HIPER). The funding will drive downstream 
efficiencies in manufacturing and quality inspection by enabling the 
utilization of laser scanning technology to significantly shorten the 
time and lower the cost for resetting and modernizing the military's 
small arms and crew-served weapons. HIPER will implement a program 
which ensures the provision of the best and safest weaponry to the 
warfighter and in the quickest and most efficient way, by replacing 
parts and resetting weapons more quickly and at reduced cost. This will 
help keep our troops safe and fully equipped with the optimum defense 
mechanisms they need to effectively complete their missions, while 
using cutting-edge technology to reduce costs and lower wait times. To 
achieve this goal SCRA will be relying on industry and government 
partners in numerous states, resulting in employment sustained and 
created via manufacturing and research requirements. Matching funds are 
not applicable. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any 
financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Lifeblood Medical

Address of Requesting Entity: 10120 Two Notch Road, Suite 2, 
Columbia, South Carolina 29223

Description of Request: I have secured $3,000,000 for the Lifeblood 
Medical's Human Organ and Tissue Preservation Technology (HOTPT). 
Funding will be used to continue and advance studies for Oxygen 
Therapeutics and Extending Room Temperature Organ Preservation so that 
the technology can be brought to FDA for approval. The use of funds is 
justified due to the potential of finding the first approved oxygen 
therapeutics which will solve the world issue of a lack of donated 
blood for trauma, military and casualty use. The use of funds is 
justified so that the supply of organs for transplantation can 
adequately meet the demand through extending the preservation time at 
room temperature. Large animal studies have proven successful in both 
oxygen therapeutics and organ preservation. Prior DoD funds have also 
proven that the Lifeblood technology can reverse cell damage and render 
organs that are labeled untransplantable into an acceptable organ for 
donation and transplantation. Matching funds will be provided by cash 
on hand, licensing fee revenues, and product sales. I certify that 
neither I nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Military Construction, Air National Guard

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: South Carolina Air National Guard, 
McEntire JNGB

Address of Requesting Entity: McEntire JNGB, 1325 South Carolina Rd., 
Eastover, SC 29044

Description of Request: I have secured $1,300,000 for the Joint Use 
Headquarters Building at McEntire Joint National Guard Base. This is 
the SC Air National Guard portion of the construction money for the 
SCNG Joint Use Headquarters Building currently funded as part of the 
FY10 FYDP. Number One on the Chief of the National Guard Bureau's 
''Essential 10'' capabilities list, the Joint Forces Headquarters is 
the most critical transformation the National Guard has undergone since 
2001. What used to be the State Area Command (STARC) and Air Guard 
State Headquarters, administrative organizations for peacetime control 
of units, has developed into a sophisticated headquarters and 
communications node capable of assuming command and control of units 
from all services and components when responding to a domestic 
emergency. Tested and proven during multiple National Security Events 
in 2004, these headquarters were further validated by hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita. However, the ANG and ARNG state headquarters 
functions and the TAG Joint Staff are inefficiently dispersed 
currently. Consolidation in one location will optimize operations and 
ensure critical Operational and Communications Security. Matching funds 
are not applicable. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any 
financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: AGY Holding Corporation

Address of Requesting Entity: 2556 Wagener Rd., Aiken, SC 29801

Description of Request: I have secured $3,300,000 for the AGY Holding 
Corporation's Next Generation High Strength Glass Fibers for Ballistic 
Armor Applications. This program accelerates the development of next 
generation high strength glass fibers used in composite armoring 
materials. This means lighter, stronger composite vehicle armor without 
sacrificing the ballistic protection needed to maximize soldier 
survivability. Additionally, this program supports the domestic 
industrial base for armor materials production. Some of the glass fiber 
used in composite vehicle armors is manufactured outside the U.S. 
Developing the next generation high strength glass fibers at AGY will 
reduce dependency on foreign sources for a critical material, and also 
save U.S. jobs. Next generation high strength glass fibers can also be 
utilized by the commercial sector to lighten and improve armoring used 
on law enforcement vehicles and armored bank cars, resulting in better 
protection for personnel, improved fuel economy, and reduced emissions. 
Matching funds are not applicable. I certify that neither I nor my 
spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: EngenuitySC

Address of Requesting Entity: 1201 Main Street, Suite 250, Columbia, 
SC 29201

Description of Request: I have secured $3,550,000 for EngenuitySC's 
Fort Jackson Renewable Energy Project. The Fort Jackson Renewable 
Energy Project will create a ''mini-grid'' for providing renewable 
power to mission-critical electrical loads at Fort Jackson, South 
Carolina, using large stationary fuel cells operating on biogas 
generated from solid waste streams indigenous to the Fort. The project 
will assist the Army in meeting its on-site renewable energy generation 
goals, as well as meeting the security goal of segregating critical 
power requirements from non-critical power requirements, and producing 
a substantial portion of the critical power requirements on-site. The 
project will also provide a model for the Department of Defense to use 
at other installations to achieve these same goals. Finally, it will 
provide the Army with access to major renewable and alternative energy 
technology providers and partners through the Columbia region's 
existing hydrogen and fuel cell partnerships, as well as access to 
other fuel cell researchers and applied research programs underway in 
the region. EngenuitySC will contribute non-federal matching funds to 
the project. Specific match funding for the requested project is 
pending receipt of federal funding. I certify that neither I nor my 
spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Operations and Maintenance, Defense Wide

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Celebrate Freedom Foundation

Address of Requesting Entity: 455 St. Andrews Road, C-1, Columbia, SC 
29210

Description of Request: I have secured $3,400,000 for Celebrate 
Freedom Foundation's SOaR Recruiting Initiative. The Department of 
Defense provided the Celebrate Freedom Foundation with over $30 million 
of high technology resources to support education and recruiting. One 
time funding is necessary to permit the utilization of this technology 
to further our national interests and to significantly help generate 
the military recruit's and civilian workforce that our nation needs now 
and in the future. The program focuses on a broad range of high skilled 
military occupational vacancies, workforce training, and it provides 
innovative educational outreach programs in unconventional settings, 
with a focus


on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Special emphasis 
on gender and minority role models, both within the military and in the 
corresponding civilian world are part of the program design to boost 
aspirations for students who, without this program, would never have 
access to such modern technology and as a result they are better 
equipped to make training and educational plans for civilian and 
military careers. Matching funds will be provided by the project 
sponsor. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial 
interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Procurement, Defense Wide

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: FN Manufacturing, LLC

Address of Requesting Entity: 797 Old Clemson Road, Columbia, SC 
29229-4203

Description of Request: I have secured $4,300,000 for FN 
Manufacturing to continue production of the Special Operations Combat 
Assault Rifle (SCAR). The SCAR was selected after a full and open 
competition. It meets validated U.S. SOCOM requirements for a 21st 
Century modular battle rifle available in 5.56 mm and 7.62 mm, and with 
Close Quarter Battle, Long-Range, and Sniper variants. Federal/taxpayer 
funding of the SCAR program will provide U.S. Special Operations Forces 
with a far more effective and reliable combat rifle than the current M-
4/M-16 family of rifles. In its various modular configurations, the 
SCAR will replace five different rifles now in use, greatly reducing 
the need for maintenance and logistics support and associated costs. 
Matching funds are not applicable. I certify that neither I nor my 
spouse has any financial interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Advanced Technology Institute

Address of Requesting Entity: 5300 International Blvd., North 
Charleston, SC 29418

Description of Request: I have secured $4,000,000 for Advanced 
Technology Institute to continue the Vanadium Technology Program. The 
Vanadium Technology Program funds the research, development and 
prototype-testing necessary to implement vanadium alloyed steel into 
warfighter protection and mobility. This funding builds on successes 
accomplished previously which include: reductions in weight, 
fabrication cost, and welding costs of 21 percent, 10 percent, and 53 
percent respectively, leading to a smaller, higher-performing vanadium 
steel trailer design for the Army/Marine Joint Light Tactical Vehicle 
System; a longer span temporary bridge, designed by the Army Corps of 
Engineers and the University of South Carolina, to bridge road gaps in 
combat regions like Iraq; and, a new class of lighter, longer span 
trusses and joists, based on vanadium hot rolled steel angle shapes, 
have been developed and laboratory tested. Matching funds are not 
applicable. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial 
interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Aircraft Procurement, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: South Carolina Army National Guard

Address of Requesting Entity: 1 National Guard Rd., Columbia, SC 
29201

Description of Request: I have secured $4,000,000 for the South 
Carolina Army National Guard Vibration Management Enhancement Program 
(VMEP). This funding will continue fielding this proven capability on 
the Army National Guard's AH-64, CH-47, and UH-60 helicopter fleets. 
VMEP collects and utilizes information derived from onboard sensors to 
indicate the state and health of the helicopter drive system and 
rotational components. VMEP enabled the SCARNG to realize a total 
savings in parts costs over a 12-month period of $1.4 million, as well 
as an increase in mission capable rates. These funds would ensure that 
the South Carolina Army National Guard aviation program stays in the 
forefront of embedded technology doctrine. Matching funds are not 
applicable. I certify that neither I nor my spouse has any financial 
interest in this project.

Requesting Member: Congressman Joe Wilson

Bill Number: H.R. 2647--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010

Account: Other Procurement, Army

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Dynamic Animation Systems, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 12015 Lee Jackson Memorial Hwy, #200, 
Fairfax, VA 22033

Description of Request: I have secured $4,800,000 for Dynamic 
Animation Systems to procure the Virtual Interactive Combat Environment 
(V.I.C.E.) for the Basic Combat Training Center of Excellence at Fort 
Jackson. V.I.C.E. is a rapidly deployable turnkey solution that 
provides maintainable, adaptable systems which the Course Manager will 
use to more effectively train Soldiers of the Basic Combat Training 
Center of Excellence in their Warrior Tasks and Battle Drills, 
including IED Detect and Defeat. V.I.C.E. offers easily reconfigurable 
solutions that facilitate individual, fire team, and squad level 
training. Within this framework, V.I.C.E. provides the capability to 
support rapidly evolving rules of engagement (ROE) and strategic 
objectives associated with full-spectrum operations. V.I.C.E. allows 
instructors to efficiently train doctrinal tasks, as well as, tactics, 
techniques and procedures (TTPs) for combat, peacekeeping, and 
humanitarian missions. V.I.C.E. also supports the interoperability 
standards required to leverage the capabilities of existing systems. 
The funds will procure Virtual Interactive Combat Environment 
(V.I.C.E.) systems (including hardware, software, installation, 
support) for Fort Jackson, thereby keeping Fort Jackson on the cutting 
edge of military training capability. The Course Manager of the Basic 
Combat Training Center of Excellence at Fort Jackson requires federal 
assistance in obtaining funding for the immediate fielding of the 
V.I.C.E. as a needed training capability exemplar for Basic Combat 
Training. Matching funds are not applicable. I certify that neither I 
nor my spouse has any financial interest in this project.
