# SECOND CHANCE ACT OF 2007
## `7529d926439aeb2080b0be320e08f028`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I am sure glad my friend, the chairman of Judiciary, 
sought time for people to revise and extend their remarks, because they 
are going to need it. This thing keeps changing. I mean, I reviewed 
this bill last week. I spent a long time going line by line, only to 
find yesterday there's still a new version, and today I was provided a 
98-page bill. I can't tell you the pages of the issues that I am most 
concerned about because the version keeps changing.



Now, this bill includes $330 million in authorizations. Normally, 
suspensions


are noncontroversial, but the fact that this bill keeps changing is 
absolute evidence that this is not noncontroversial. It keeps changing 
because people can't figure out what is the best thing to do.

I would submit there is a good reason for that. The bill that this 
seeks to renew and programs that are sought to be renewed are ones we 
don't have information on how successful they were, and that was the 
original purpose of this bill. Back when it expired in 2005, we still 
did not have the information on what worked and what didn't.

I can tell you from my days as a judge, there was some anecdotal 
evidence that it looked like faith-based programs did a better job of 
dramatically reducing recidivism. In one case I was shown results from 
a prison in Texas where it dropped down to about 8 percent from over 80 
percent because of faith-based programs and mentoring.

This new version, I haven't even been through it. I haven't had time 
to go through it. But the one that I saw and reviewed on Friday, it 
included reentry programs allowing payment for housing and health care. 
I know our military members who are leaving after less than 20 years in 
the service with honorable discharges would love to have that kind of 
help reentering.

There are some provisions that allow for too much administration, in 
my opinion; 11 percent at one point, 15 percent at another. That is not 
going to help people. That is going to build a bigger bureaucracy.

Dismissing all charges if someone completes drug rehab under another 
provision I think is outrageous. You are going to remove the hammer 
that would allow you to keep people in line? It is one thing to say we 
are going to remove you and not have you go to prison and instead send 
you to drug rehab, and then if you get through there, before you have a 
chance to go out and do cocaine again, we are going to drop all charges 
so we have no hammer over your head. I don't know if this is in the 
final bill. It was in there last I saw on Friday.

There is a provision that allows payments through the Department of 
Labor for support. There are military members, and I went to another 
funeral Saturday, a gentleman who was not killed in Iraq, he was killed 
during surgery, but I know his family would love to have the kind of 
support being provided in here for felons.

We also have a provision in here, we are going to pay people through 
these grants to teach inmates how they can go about getting the most 
welfare before they leave prison and go out on their own. There is also 
a provision that moves inmates to home detention without approval of 
the judge who sentenced the individual.

In this bill, the elderly, for purposes of moving to home detention, 
is defined as 65. I guess apparently under this bill, without any 
underlying evidence or research to support it, we have arbitrarily 
picked 65 as deciding that is when people are harmless. But I know from 
my own experience around this Chamber, there are people in Congress 
that are 65 or older that are certainly not harmless. In any event, I 
think that is a little bit too young to classify people as harmless.

There is a provision that assistance will be provided by the United 
States probation system and it ''shall'' be done. I don't know, I can't 
find from the bill what kind of assistance that will be. But I think we 
have all got the same goal. I think one of the worst atrocities in the 
justice system has been our lack of rehabilitating and educating and 
preparing people to go out into the world and become productive 
citizens and finally reach the God-given potential that every one of 
them has. I couldn't agree more with the proposition, and I know that 
is the heart of my colleagues across the aisle. But we don't have the 
information on which programs are successful and which aren't.

I want to work together on a program. I've kind of been cut out of 
this process. The National Summit on Prisoner Reentry is coming up in 
Los Angeles on November 27 and 28, but we are going to rush this 
through on a suspension bill for $330 million without even having a 
chance to really review the most recent document.