# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `752fe0bb3feb54cb6a921a45bf9a4f7a`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 20 May 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, this amendment amends immigration law 
to prohibit any detainee held at Guantanamo Bay Naval Facility from 
being transferred or released into the United States. It is a little 
bit different from the vote we are going to be taking at 11:30.

There are over 240 terrorists in U.S. custody at the military 
detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Let me just describe some 
of the individuals who reside at Guantanamo. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed--or 
KSM--is the self-proclaimed, and quite unapologetic, mastermind of the 
9/11 attacks. KSM admitted he was the planner of 9/11 and other 
planned, but foiled attacks against the U.S. In his combatant status 
review board, he admitted he swore allegiance to Osama bin Ladin, was a 
member of al-Qaida, was the military operational commander for all 
foreign al-Qaida operations, and much more. KSM and four other 
detainees, who are charged with conspiring to commit the terrible 9/11 
attacks, remain at Guantanamo.

In addition, Gitmo uses Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri who was responsible 
for the October 2000 USS Cole bombing which murdered 17 U.S. sailors 
and injured 37 others. Also residing a Gitmo are Osama bin Ladin's 
personal bodyguards, al-Qaida terrorist camp trainers, al-Qaida 
bombmakers, and individuals picked up on the battlefield with weapons 
trying to kill American soldiers--our young men and women who 
patriotically serve their country. The detainees at Guantanamo are some 
of the most senior, hardened, and dangerous al-Qaida figures we have 
captured.

These are exactly the type of individuals we hope never get past our 
front lines and enter into the United States. However, as one of his 
very first acts in January, President Obama ordered the closure of 
Guantanamo, but 4 months later he still does not have a plan to 
accomplish this. Officials in his administration have stated publicly 
that some of these detainees could be brought to the U.S., and some 
could even be freed into the United States.

The disposition of the detainees at Gitmo is not a new issue. Over 
the past several years, the military has transferred the majority of 
detainees held at Gitmo to other countries. However, the success of 
these transfers is mixed at best. According to a Defense Intelligence 
Agency report from December 2008, 18 former detainees are confirmed and 
43 are suspected of returning to the fight after being released from 
Guantanamo. This represents a recidivism rate of over 11 percent. Just 
two months later this rate rose to 12 percent. These individuals do not 
even represent the most serious and dangerous terrorists we have 
captured. The most dangerous detainees remain at Gitmo. This data has 
likely risen since December, but the Department of Defense refuses to 
release the information under instructions from the administration. If 
we start to release or transfer the most hardened terrorists left at 
Gitmo, these numbers will only increase further.

One thing that is clear: we know that these detainees have remained 
loyal to al-Qaida and Osama bin Ladin despite being captured and remain 
a danger to our national security. We have statements from detainees 
avowing it is their goal to kill Americans, claiming that they ''pray 
every day against the United States.'' Al-Qaida searches every day for 
operatives who can evade our enhanced security mechanisms in its quest 
to commit another attack against our homeland. It is important to 
remember that most detainees held at Guantanamo were captured on the 
battlefields in Afghanistan or Iraq and were determined to be a threat 
to our Nation's security. Whatever their ties to terrorists groups or 
activities, these individuals should never be given the privilege of 
crossing our borders, even if incarcerated. To do so would be nothing 
short of an invitation for al-Qaida to operate inside our homeland. KSM 
and other high value detainees at Gitmo are no different, and do not 
conceal their intent to harm Americans if given the chance.


My amendment would prevent those terrorists at Gitmo from having that 
chance. Article I, section 8 of the Constitution grants Congress the 
right to ''establish a uniform rule of naturalization.'' The Supreme 
Court has determined that the power of Congress ''to exclude aliens 
from the United States and to prescribe the terms and conditions on 
which they come in'' is absolute. My legislation capitalizes on the 
clear and absolute authority of Congress to determine who enters our 
borders by first adding to the list of those inadmissible to the United 
States those detained at Gitmo as of January 1 of this year.

However, because Congress delegates to the executive branch parole 
authority, this administration could still bring those terrorists 
detained at Gitmo into the United States. Parole authority is granted 
to the Attorney General to allow aliens, who are otherwise not 
qualified for admission to the U.S., permission to enter our country on 
a case-by-case basis--essentially a waiver for those otherwise 
inadmissible. Although aliens paroled into the U.S. are not considered 
''admitted'' for purposes of our immigration laws, they are within the 
borders of our country and therefore become eligible to apply for 
asylum or seek other legal protections.

To deal with this, my legislation also eliminates parole authority 
for the executive branch as it pertains to those individuals detained 
at Gitmo as of January 1, 2009. As such, there is no basis for 
President Obama to allow these detainees to be transferred to U.S. 
soil.

The Protecting America's Communities Act also provides protections 
for American citizens in the event President Obama decides to try to 
exercise some other authority to bring these Gitmo detainees to the 
U.S., such as the authority granted to him via Article II of our 
Constitution. Again, we know that if the detainees were transferred to 
the U.S., they would seek legal protection under the generous legal 
rights our Constitution grants our citizens. However, our courts and 
our legal system were not established to try individuals detained on 
the battlefield. Because of the nature of the global war on terror and 
evidence gathered against them from the battlefield or through 
intelligence, the detainees are unlikely to be suitable for prosecution 
within the U.S. criminal courts. There is no ''CSI Kandahar'' in which 
evidence picked up off the battlefield is carefully marked and the 
chain of custody is observed.

There is too much at stake to grant the unprecedented benefit of our 
legal system's complex procedural safeguards to foreign nationals who 
were captured outside the United States during a time of war. Allowing 
these terrorists to escape conviction--or worse yet, to be freed into 
the U.S. by our courts--because of legal technicalities would tarnish 
the reputation of our legal system as one that is fair and just. 
Prohibiting the detainees from entering into the U.S., as the 
Protecting America's Communities Act does, is one small step in the 
right direction.

Further, if these individuals were to be brought to the U.S. by 
President Obama to be tried on our Article III courts and not 
convicted, the only mechanism available to our Government to continue 
to detain these individuals would be via immigration law. However, the 
current immigration laws


on our books are insufficient to ensure that these detainees would be 
mandatorily detained and continued to be detained until they can 
successfully be removed from our borders.

Although I am adamantly opposed to bringing any of these detainees to 
the U.S., and I do not believe the President has independent authority 
to do so, I believe we need legislation to safeguard our citizens and 
our communities in the event they are brought here. To that end, my 
legislation makes mandatory the detention of any Gitmo detainees 
brought to the U.S.

It also strengthens and clarifies the authority of the Secretary of 
the Department of Homeland Security to detain any of the Gitmo 
detainees until they can be removed. This statutory fix is needed 
because in 2001, the Supreme Court decided the case of Zadvydas v. 
Davis, holding that unless there is a reasonable likelihood that an 
alien being held by the Government will actually be repatriated to 
their government within a given period of time, that alien must be 
released and cannot be detained by the U.S. Government for more than 6 
months.

We all know a major issue facing our country in dealing with those 
folks detained at Gitmo is finding a country to take them. For example, 
there are 17 Chinese Uighurs being held at Gitmo who have been cleared 
for transfer to another country. However, the United States will not 
send them back to China for fear they might be treated unfairly by the 
Chinese Government. No other country to date is willing to take them. 
Therefore, my legislation provides authority to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security to continue to detain these individuals and provides 
for a periodic review of their continued detention until they can 
safely be removed to a third country.

In addition, my legislation prohibits any of those individuals 
detained at Gitmo from applying for asylum in the event they are 
brought here. Now, there are a number of other proposals to prohibit 
funding from being used to transfer to or detain the Gitmo terrorists 
in the United States--I am going to support those provisions--but those 
are not permanent. Those will have to be renewed annually. Congress 
would have to maintain this prohibition in all future spending bills.

Although I do believe this is a good short-term solution, and I 
support those measures, I want to be confident that Congress does not 
drop the ball in the future. We need a more permanent solution to this 
problem, and the Protect America's Communities Act provides exactly 
that.

I urge the President to develop a policy that would allow closure for 
the families of the victims of 9/11 that will prevent terrorists from 
stepping foot on U.S. soil and will keep them off the battlefield where 
they will attempt to kill our men and women in future combats.

However, we cannot wait for the President to assure us that none of 
these detainees will be brought to America. The stakes are too high, 
and in order to maintain the highest degree of security and safety in 
our country, we need to adopt the Protect America's Communities Act to 
ensure that they never step foot inside of our Nation.

I yield the floor.