# None
## `75301c2360f92fba77af29c153ed12d7`
`Mr. KAUFMAN — 4 March 2010`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Madam President, it has been just over a year since I 
took office and since President Obama was sworn in. I think it is a 
good time and appropriate to reflect on just how far we have come. A 
year ago, the Presiding Officer and I came into office in the midst of 
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.

We had been spiraling deeper and deeper into recession for over a 
year. Almost three-quarters of a million jobs were lost in the month of 
January 2009 alone. Our credit markets were frozen, major edifices of 
our economic landscape had collapsed or were tottering on the brink, 
from Lehman Brothers to General Motors. Alarms were still ringing. 
Emergency policies were thrown in to the breach, things were bad, and 
there was no way to know how much worse they were going to get. We were 
on the precipice.

We could have fallen into the abyss, if not for the extraordinary 
actions we took. Those actions saved us from another full-blown 
depression. We are still not out of the woods, of course. Although we 
have had some good news recently, too many families, too many 
communities have been hit hard by job losses and falling home values. 
But we are nevertheless beginning to see evidence that we are finally 
turning the corner as a nation. While things are still not good, they 
are no longer getting worse and, in some areas, we have actually seen 
real improvement. I wish to share with my colleagues some of that 
evidence.

Here I have a chart showing the Dow Jones industrial average since 
October 2008. We all know it is not always the best indicator of 
economic health, but since the downturn was precipitated by turmoil in 
our financial markets, I will start with this.

As you can see, the market bottomed out just weeks after the Recovery 
Act was enacted, and it has been climbing ever since. The chart clearly 
shows we stopped the free-fall, we stabilized the market, and we are 
allowing it to grow again.

Here is another chart showing the Purchasing Managers Index. This is 
a survey of purchasing managers who report whether business conditions 
are better than, the same as or worse than the previous month. A score 
of 50 means no change, so anything over that should mean the economy is 
expanding. Anything below indicates the economy is shrinking. In this 
chart, it is clear business confidence plummeted in the fall of 2008. 
Only four times in the postwar period has this index fallen so low and 
never in the last quarter century. We can see it was not until March of 
last year, right after the Recovery Act took effect, that manufacturing 
confidence began to return. With other data, we know this occurred as 
businesses began rebuilding inventories, confident they had weathered 
the cash crisis of the winter.

This next chart shows our GDP growth over the last 3 years, from the 
beginning of 2007 to the end of last year, the last date for which we 
have good data. I have added a smoothing line to show the trajectory 
our economy has taken. As you can see, in 2008, the bottom fell out. It 
wasn't until last spring that we began to restore order. I will not 
pretend 6.3 percent growth for one quarter is good enough for me. 
Without jobs, it isn't. But it is clearly better than what was 
happening 12 months ago.

My last two charts, which address jobs, tell the most important tale. 
We know from past experience that job growth lags behind economic 
recovery. This chart shows how long that took in


previous postwar recessions. In every single postwar recession, jobs 
have lagged the economic recovery, whether it is 1 month in July 1908 
or 22 months in November 2001 and everything in between.

There is a reason for this. Businesses need to use up their existing 
capacity, and they need to feel confident in the economic climate 
before they start expanding again. This process can be especially 
painful following a financial collapse, where businesses and households 
are forced to pare down their savings and reduce their spending. By 
doing that, they tamp down economic recovery, reduce spending, and that 
is why jobs have been slower to return than anyone would like. Also 
remember, if you are running a company and you have laid off people, 
that is a very traumatic experience. You don't want to do that again. 
The worst situation of all is to start hiring people back and then have 
to lay them off again. Businesspeople, especially those who care, don't 
want to hire people back until they are sure they can offer them a job 
they can keep. Can you imagine putting somebody through this twice?

It is important to remember this lag. Economists suggest we may be 
around 8 months into economic recovery, and the jobs are coming. We are 
8 months into economic recovery, and the jobs are coming. While the 
record of recent recoveries is a sobering one, the last chart I have 
shows the beginning of our good news. With announcements over recent 
weeks, we have seen that unemployment is stabilized and may even be 
turning around. We have staunched the bleeding. All those charts show 
things started picking up right after we passed the stimulus bill.

That is not the only thing we did. There were extraordinary efforts 
to stabilize the financial sector through direct assistance and low 
interest rates. But passage of the Recovery Act marked the beginning of 
the turnaround. That is indisputable, looking at the data. Passage of 
the Recovery Act marked the beginning of the economic turnaround. We 
cannot be satisfied until we have all our jobs back, until our economy 
is working for everyone. But one thing we know for sure is that without 
the Recovery Act, we would be a lot worse off.

I wish to stress, this will not be a smooth path back to a healthy 
economy. There will be good days and bad days, good news and bad news. 
But these indicators show we have turned the corner, thanks in no small 
way to Recovery Act money that is still going out. Nationally, nearly 2 
million jobs have been saved or created by activities funded by the 
Recovery Act. This is not something I alone am claiming. Economic 
experts from Moody's, CBO, Macroeconomic Advisers and more are telling 
the same story. But that is not all the Recovery Act has done. It has 
also given a helping hand to millions of Americans out of work by 
expanding and extending unemployment insurance. Meanwhile, 95 percent 
of working Americans benefited from tax relief. Under the Recovery Act, 
95 percent of all working Americans benefited from the tax relief.

State and local governments received badly needed fiscal relief that 
allowed them to maintain essential services, including health coverage 
for millions of Americans, and retain workers which kept cops on the 
beat and teachers in the classroom. We will never know how bad the 
economy would have been if we had not acted. That is the nature of 
things. But the charts I have shown all tell the very same story, of an 
economic free-fall that has been slowed, stopped, and reversed.

Do any of my colleagues believe we would be in a better situation 
today without the Recovery Act? The timeline is clear. The data are 
clear. The Recovery Act is what brought the economy back.

The challenge we faced 1 year ago was a roughly $2 trillion hole in 
the economy. Consumer spending, fully two-thirds of the whole economy, 
was in free-fall. Failing to plug the gap would have continued the 
free-fall or, just as badly, condemned us to a lost decade similar to 
what Japan saw in the 1990s. During 1990s, the Japanese did not come 
back with a major effort such as the Recovery Act, and they had GDP 
level for a decade. You can imagine what that did to revenues, their 
deficit, and their jobs. That is what we would have been condemned 
with, if we had not gone with the Recovery Act.

Let's tell the truth about how we got here. It is absolutely 
essential to remember what the situation was 1 year ago when the 
administration came into office, not to go back and go over things that 
happened in the past but to make sure we don't do it again and to 
understand what caused this recession. The circumstances we inherited 
at the end of 8 years of the prior administration were the worst we 
have seen in generations. When the Bush administration came to office 
in 2001, the Federal budget was not only balanced, it was in surplus, 
in surplus to the tune of $236 billion, the largest surplus in half a 
century. Remember that. That was not that long ago. We were actually 
debating how quickly we were going to be free of debt as a country. We 
were on a path to financial independence, able to save for retirement 
of the baby boom generation, able to set aside something for a rainy 
day. That was only 10 years ago.

Tragically, that inheritance was squandered. Instead of a surplus of 
$710 billion that was projected in 2001 for last fiscal year, 2009, we 
wound up with a $1.6 trillion deficit. I hear my friends on the other 
side talk about deficits. This $1.6 trillion deficit didn't just 
develop. It came out of the policies of the last 8 years.

Two major factors account for the bulk of this reversal of fortune. 
First were the economic and budget policies of the last administration 
which gave no thought to paying for tax cuts or spending increases. We 
just had a debate about paying for the $10 billion for an employment 
extension. But we actually passed tax cuts, Medicare, other things that 
were never paid for that were hundreds of billions of dollars, not $10 
billion, hundreds of billions. Tax cuts primarily for the wealthy and 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan together accounted for more than $500 
billion of the 2009 deficit and $7.1 trillion over the next decade and 
none of it was paid for.


Second, we had the regulatory failures which permitted, even 
encouraged, the financial excesses that brought our markets down. They 
not only permitted it; they encouraged it. There was a feeling you 
didn't have to do any kind of regulation, only self-regulation. Alan 
Greenspan himself said he was dismayed self-regulation didn't work. 
That financial collapse battered our economy, reducing revenues and 
increasing necessary spending on unemployment insurance, food stamps, 
and other support programs. Here we are on the floor debating 
unemployment insurance, food stamps, and other support programs, when 
in the previous administration, when Congress was controlled by the 
other side, they didn't talk about these issues that cost over $7.1 
trillion. They were not funded. There was no funding for the Medicare 
prescription drug program. There was no funding for the tax cuts. It is 
true the budget for next year will not be as close to balance as we all 
would wish, but I believe that is because of the hand we were dealt.

The best way to bring the budget back into order over the long run is 
to grow our economy. This is something everybody in this building 
believes in. Our inheritance from the previous administration was tax 
cuts, overwhelmingly tilted toward those who were already well off, 
unfunded new entitlement programs, and two wars paid for with borrowed 
money. All these transformed our country's finances, leading us down 
the path to where we are now, potentially on the brink of fiscal ruin. 
Instead of saving for the future, we are borrowing billions from China, 
Japan and other countries and falling deeper into debt.

There are two kinds of deficits, and we have not done a good job 
explaining this. Economists will agree. There is the deficit you create 
in good times by profligate spending and tax cuts. That is one kind of 
deficit. When the economy is going well, you should be building 
surpluses. However, once you are in the hole, you have to get out of 
the hole, and that is a different kind of deficit. For that kind of 
deficit, you need to get the economy moving again because growth is the 
only way you are going to get out of the hole.

President Bush inherited a balanced budget, a vast fiscal surplus 
projected at the time to be $5.6 trillion over 10 years. Instead, he 
left office having added nearly $5 trillion to the national


debt. That is a swing of $10 trillion. That means the Bush years cost 
roughly $30,000 for each and every American. I hear people from the 
other side talk about the deficit. This was a $10 trillion swing 
starting just 10 years ago and going up 2 years ago. What amnesia. Take 
a look at what happened. What I am telling you are the facts. We can 
argue about policy but, in fact, we were in surplus and had a projected 
$5.6 trillion surplus when President Clinton left office. We ended up 
with a swing of $10 trillion, adding $5 trillion to the national debt. 
Those are facts. Senator Moynihan from New York used to say everybody 
is entitled to their opinion but not to the facts. The facts are, there 
was a $5.6 trillion projected surplus when President Bush took office, 
and we are left with a $5 trillion deficit. That adds up to $10 
trillion. In fact, it adds up to $10.6 trillion.

I think those of us who supported the Recovery Act need to own up to 
our own mistake: We have done a lousy job of explaining why the 
Recovery Act was needed and how it is working. We are doing a good job 
explaining the Web sites, but we have not done the macroeconomic 
explanation of why you cannot have jobs come back until the economy 
comes back. You cannot have the economy come back without having the 
Recovery Act.

To start with, I will say I know it increases the deficit in the 
short term. I don't like it, but that was an unavoidable byproduct. The 
best long-term solution to our debt problems is not a little frugality 
that cuts down on growth. It is a robust, healthy, growing economy. 
That is why most economists believe--when I say ''most,'' I should say 
the vast majority--that in spite of the short-run deficit hit of the 
Recovery Act, it will bring us closer to fiscal balance over the long 
term.

I know some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will take 
issue with this statement. I would simply remind them it is economic 
growth--something they have talked about for years--and economic growth 
alone, that will get us out of our present mess.

There is another mistake we made. As we were diligently working to 
ensure accountability for the program--and we have done a great job of 
that; and that is important--and connected specific parts of the 
Recovery Act to specific jobs created, we have missed the forest for 
the trees in our explanation. We have lost track of the real objective: 
to jump-start the broader economy. That is where the jobs are going to 
come from--the main jobs.

While the Recovery Act itself has created or saved 2 million jobs--
independent analysis confirms this--perhaps its most important impact 
has been the renewed confidence it has given to our economy. I 
absolutely totally, completely believe that. The jobs will come. The 
jobs will come. They always lag behind the economy. When the economy 
goes up, the jobs are not far behind.

The charts do not lie. We are rebounding. By returning faith to our 
consumer economy, the Recovery Act has had a much greater effect than 
the sum of its parts. To those who opposed the Recovery Act, I ask: 
What was your plan? Some said--and I presided and listened to the 
arguments--we should fill a $2 trillion hole in our economy with $200 
billion. That was a plan doomed to failure. That is what the Japanese 
did, and they were faced with a decade of no growth.

Economists far and wide said that a $200 billion Recovery Act would 
have failed to halt a fall into depression. No reputable economists--
none--said this would have taken us from where we were--where we were a 
year ago, with 730,000 jobs being lost--to a 6-percent growth in gross 
domestic product for the fourth quarter of last year.

We have come a long way in this past year. We have not come far 
enough yet. We have a long way to go. But I believe to move forward we 
must remember how bad things were when we began, just how deep a hole 
we were in, and we are pulling ourselves out of it now. The Recovery 
Act has done its job and will continue to do its job.

Madam President, I yield the floor.










Amendment No. 3354 To Amendment No. 3336



 (Purpose: To encourage energy efficiency and conservation and 


development of renewable energy sources for housing, commercial 
structures, and other buildings, and to create sustainable communities)
