# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `753a92504e73e86ecdc60f11e48b9998`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 27 September 2010`

---


Mr. JOHANNS. Mr. President, I rise today to remember a fallen hero, 
U.S. Marine SSG Michael Bock of Omaha, NE.

Michael was a proud member of the 3rd Combat EngineerBattalion, 1st 
Marine Expeditionary Force Forward, operating in one of the most 
dangerous areas of Afghanistan, the Helmand Province.

On August 13, Staff Sergeant Bock was shot and killed while on foot 
patrol.

His death is a great loss to our Nation and especially to those of us 
from Nebraska.

Michael will be remembered as a caring, outgoing, and responsible 
young man, always ready to help family and friends with a smile and a 
burst of energy.

From childhood, he had wanted to serve in the military.

At an age when many young Americans are not yet tackling adult 
responsibilities, Michael was ready to offer his service and sacrifice 
for our Nation.

He started Marine boot camp a month after graduating from high 
school.

The Marine Corps became a family for Staff SergeantBock.

In fact, he convinced his brother David to join and serve.

Over time Michael's family grew.

His marriage to Tiffany was followed by the birth of his son, 
Alexander.

By that time, Staff Sergeant Bock had already seen combat during two 
tours in Iraq.

He served with distinction then, and again during his third 
deployment--this time to Afghanistan.

The Helmand Province is a well-known Taliban stronghold, but progress 
toward our goals has also been significant.

Afghan citizens there today enjoy freedoms they have not witnessed 
for generations.

Much of that credit is due to heroes like Staff SergeantBock.

His Marine buddies remember him as a disciplinedNCO dedicated to 
accomplishing the mission at hand.

Family and friends say he was always positive and ready to help.

To his wife Tiffany, he was a devoted husband with a big heart--a man 
whom his son, Zander, will undoubtedly admire his entire life.

His decorations and badges earned during his military career speak to 
his dedication and bravery: the Purple Heart, the Combat Action Ribbon, 
the Marine Good Conduct Medal, the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement 
Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, the Sea Service Deployment 
Medal,the Humanitarian Service Medal,the Iraq Campaign Medal,the Global 
War on Terrorism Service and Expeditionary Medals, the National Defense 
Service Medal, the Navy Unit Commendation, the President Unit Citation, 
the NATO Medal for Afghanistan, and the Sharpshooter Rifle and Pistol 
Badge.

Today, I join Tiffany, Michael's other family members, and friends in 
mourning the death of their beloved husband, son, brother, and friend.

Michael made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our Nation, and he 
now stands among our national heroes, never to be forgotten.

May God be with the Bock family, friends, and all those who celebrate 
his achievements, the man he was, and his legacy that shall remain.

There is a very special class of Americans who wear the military 
uniform and shed their blood so that we can sleep safe.

Michael joined that special community of patriots, past and present, 
which protects America and keeps us free.

They shall be remembered and honored until the end of our days.

May God bless them and their families, and see them through these 
difficult times.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.