# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `756967782039e7b157813bcfa8df7481`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, this conference report is the wrong 
response to the President's request for the supplemental funding that 
is urgently needed by the Department of Defense.

While most of the funds--over $109 billion--are appropriated to wage 
the global war on terrorism, to continue operations in Afghanistan, and 
to support Iraqi security forces, the conference report also includes 
funding for continuing the recovery from Hurricane Katrina and ensuring 
that our veterans receive the care they deserve.

I am very disappointed this bill includes language that sets forth a 
timetable for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. We should be 
providing the President with a bill he can sign so our military forces 
can receive the funding they now need.

I recently brought to the attention of the Senate a letter I received 
from the Joint Chiefs of Staff on April 2 describing the urgency of an 
appropriations bill and their concerns about further delays of funding. 
It has been now over 3 weeks since that letter was received.

It is very clear that delay is occurring, and it is undermining the 
ability to manage the responsibilities of the Department of Defense. We 
are talking about life-and-death situations and the ability to obtain 
equipment, armaments, and the training that is necessary by our Armed 
Forces to carry out their mission.

The Joint Chiefs pointed this out in their letter:




 Without approval of the supplemental funds in April, the 


 Armed Services will be forced to take increasingly disruptive 


 measures in order to sustain combat operations.


In addition, they stated:




 These restrictions increase the burden on servicemembers 


 and their families during this time of war.

I cannot support this effort to dictate the management of this very 
serious threat to our Nation's security interests. The opponents of the 
President's efforts to win the battle against the terrorists should not 
be permitted to hijack this supplemental appropriations bill. The 
responsible thing for us to do is to send this conference report to the 
President so he can veto it. We can then revise it so it can be enacted 
without the offensive language.