---
---

# IMPACT OF THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET ON AMERICA
## `756b2a10b2d7bb8fc0fb0e3223777be7`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you very much, Mr. Altmire. It is a 
pleasure to be with my new 30-Something colleague on the floor here to 
discuss what I think you set out before us very accurately is a 
fiscally reckless and irresponsible budget, but also a morally 
irresponsible budget.

You outlined what the problem here is. The problem here, Mr. Speaker, 
is that we have got a budget that doesn't paint the whole picture for 
this Congress, doesn't tell the whole story for this country. We have 
got a budget which claims to be in balance.

Mr. Altmire, I remember being here for my first State of the Union 
speech, I did not sit too far away from you, and we listened to the 
President stand up at the podium there at the second level and say we 
could work together on a balanced budget, that we could do the right 
thing for the American people, do the things that Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan 
and Ms. Wasserman Schultz have been talking about for 2 years in the 
30-Something Working Group, and that is making sure that we don't pass 
on the cost of government to our children and our grandchildren by 
these massive deficits that we are racking up.

Instead, the President handed us a budget today, a pretty big stack 
of papers there, that claims to balance the budget, but does so by 
omitting some of the biggest costs within the budget.

At the top of the list is the cost of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They are not in that budget. Those are emergency 
expenditures, emergency appropriations, and so the President hasn't 
seen fit to incorporate those in the budget.

He also doesn't include the cost of fixing what is called the 
Alternative Minimum Tax, which is a tax that, if not repealed, it was 
supposed to be for the wealthiest taxpayers, but because we haven't 
made any adjustments over the years, this Alternative Minimum Tax is 
all of a sudden not going to be much of an alternative, because 
millions of middle class families throughout this country are going to 
have to pay it. So that is not in there either.

By the way, it also assumes that we are going to take in billions of 
dollars in revenue beyond what most reasonable economists will tell you 
we are going to bring in in the next 5 to 10 years.

So, Mr. Speaker, what we have is a budget that doesn't tell the whole 
story. I can balance my budget pretty easily at home if I just, for 
instance, don't include the cost of my mortgage. I could spend 
everything. I could buy five flat screen TVs for my house, I could get 
a caretaker to mow my lawn and cut my shrubs, so long as my budget 
didn't include my mortgage. But, do you know what? My family and your 
family and everybody else's family in this country has to make their 
budget meet, their revenues and expenditures meet, by incorporating all 
of their costs. The budget that you held up there doesn't do that. It 
only encapsulates parts of our costs.