# TRIBUTE TO DAN INOUYE
## `7572ba623539ed4516b1d18d3d3cad8e`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it is a pleasure for me to call 
attention to someone who rarely calls attention to himself. Today, our 
friend, Senator Inouye, reaches a very lofty milestone, and we honor 
him for his achievement. It is an opportunity to call attention not 
only to his dedication to the people of Hawaii but also to a remarkable 
American story.

Senator Inouye was only 17 when he heard the sirens over Honolulu and 
saw the gray planes flying overhead, but he was old enough to know 
nothing would be the same. At the time, he dreamed of being a surgeon. 
A few years later, a medic would be taking care of him after his heroic 
actions in the Italian mountains, for which he would later receive our 
Nation's most prestigious award for military valor.

Dan Inouye's dream of being a surgeon was not realized. There were 
other things in store. Instead, he became a member of one of the most 
decorated U.S. military units in American history and one of our 
Nation's longest serving and finest Senators.

We are periodically reminded of Senator Inouye's deep commitment to 
service, such as earlier this month when he traveled to Afghanistan and 
Pakistan to check in on our troops and ensure their well-being. It was 
an arduous journey for anyone, let alone a Senator who has served so 
long.

Senator, thank you for your service and for your example and 
congratulations on your achievement.
