---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7580945a7b96986792a9d5cf58fe7f36`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and 
while I certainly appreciate the sincerity of the people who are 
offering this amendment, I disagree with it, inasmuch as it ties the 
hands of the military.

I have had the opportunity to go to Iraq and Afghanistan several 
times, and I can say war is complicated. War does not always go your 
way. The enemy does not always cooperate with the best of our plans. 
And yet we here in the safety of the U.S. Congress can dictate to the 
commanders in the field what direction the war should go in and the 
timeframe and what should happen next, according to a political 
guideline and a political deadline as opposed to military guidelines 
and military deadlines.

When the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations visited General 
McChrystal and Ambassador Eikenberry and the rest of our leadership in 
March in Afghanistan, one of the things that they told us is that there 
had been a difference, some significant differences, in the war. Part 
of it was that the Afghan army was stepping up in a completely 
different way, a new culture, if you will. They were taking ownership 
in the war.

In Pakistan, troops had been shifted from the Kashmir border over to 
the Afghan border and they were being attacked themselves by Taliban 
terrorists, and so the Pakistanis were showing an interest and an 
energy which up until now they had not given us or given the Afghan 
people. They are no longer looking at this war as America's war in 
Afghanistan. They are seeing it as their war that has spilled into 
Pakistan, and it is causing instability in the region.

But I will say this, that our commander at the time, General 
McChrystal, said, I am not over here to waste our time and to waste 
soldiers' lives. I am keenly aware that the clock is ticking and we 
have to have a resolution on this.

The campaign in Marja had just been concluded. It went very well. The 
shift to the next campaign in Kandahar was already underway, and people 
were moving in that direction.

So, Mr. Speaker, I think it is very important for us to let the 
military make these decisions and not political representatives in 
Washington. I think, furthermore, bogging this bill down with all kinds 
of extracurricular amendments further sends a mixed signal to our 
troops and the international community.

I ask unanimous consent to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 4899, 
with the Senate amendments thereto, and concur in the Senate 
amendments.