# None
## `7585bcebcdbca1b54ea670c6a7fd4704`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be 
here for another session of the 30-something Working Group. We have had 
a very interesting week in Congress this week, and we want to share 
some of that with our fellow Members of Congress and those people 
paying attention for the record on the week of sunshine in the United 
States Congress.

In the past several days we have, as Democrats, continued to honor 
our pledge to try to open up government, knowing that the more 
information that we share, the more information that we have about the 
inner workings of government, the better off we are all going to be.

I think we have all seen over the past several years how a very 
closed, secretive government rules and what the end result may be of a 
very closed and secretive government. We are trying to fix that 
problem.

As you watch the news, Madam Speaker, as you watch the news every 
single day, it seems like we continue to hear stories about problems 
that we knew about many, many years ago, but we never did anything 
about it because you are not allowed to admit you make mistakes.

What we have tried to do this week is try to prevent the kinds of 
situations we have had with Walter Reed, try to prevent the kinds of 
situations we have had with Iraq, and try to prevent the kinds of 
situations we have had with Hurricane Katrina. All of these things were 
happening behind closed doors, and the people involved at the Pentagon 
or the Department of Defense, or whether it was in FEMA, the problem 
was people in the organization or in the agency or in certain 
departments knew things weren't going well or knew there wasn't a plan 
or knew we didn't have the proper people in place to execute whatever 
the exact role was of that agency, but nobody was allowed


to tell anybody or talk about it. And if you talked about it, you were 
fired.

We saw Hurricane Katrina on TV. We continue to see the war on TV, and 
we see what has happened at Walter Reed. Can you imagine people knew 
about what was going on at Walter Reed and didn't say anything? And 
then getting up in front of the TV cameras and say: We are for the 
troops, and you're not. That is a problem.

The new Democratic majority has begun the problem of fixing that 
problem this week. We are restoring accountability. This week we passed 
whistleblower protection and other government reform bills so that 
those people involved in the agencies who know how the agencies need to 
be run will not be subjected to the political whims of the day.

We want them to share with us what the problems are. We want them to 
share with us how we fix the agency or the department or the execution 
of the mission of a specific department. And I think it is important 
politically. As I am joined here by my good friend from Florida, Mr. 
Meek, I think it is important that we recognize what has happened since 
the Democrats have taken over.

Now we are not here to just say we are the only political party in 
the country and we are the best and this and that. We had a political 
situation in this country since 2000 where the presidency was 
Republican and for the most part the House and the Senate were 
Republican the whole time, and the Republicans have controlled this 
Chamber for 14 years. And a culture of coverup happened, to where the 
Republican majority in the House would not oversee or provide the 
proper oversight to what was going on in FEMA, in the war, and a lot of 
these other agencies.

And what has happened when the Democrats took over Congress and the 
American people said we need to bring a little balance to this 
situation, just look at what has happened. Walter Reed, who knows if 
that would have ever come up if the Democrats weren't poking around 
saying what is going on with veterans' health care?



All of the issues in Iraq. Today we passed a supplemental to begin to 
put the framework together to get our kids home from Iraq. And look at 
what is going on with Katrina and the oversight we are providing for 
that.

These are things that are happening because the American people put 
balance back into the government. And we want to continue to honor the 
pledges that we made previous to the last election. We want to make 
sure that it is not just the whistleblower protection, but it is the 67 
hearings that we have already had, Democrats have already had on Iraq. 
Sixty-seven. No, it's even more.