# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `7585cf251225509fb32b6d02410fa1ae`
`Ms. LEE — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, first let me thank Chairman Skelton for 
yielding, but also for his commitment to our Armed Forces, as the 
daughter, Mr. Skelton, of a 25-year Army veteran who loves you dearly 
and thanks you for supporting our troops.

As a cofounder of the Out of Iraq Caucus, I rise in support of this 
bill. The President has dug us deep into a hole in Iraq. By setting a 
clear timeline for the redeployment of United States troops, we are 
standing with the American people to stop the digging. If we are to 
climb out of this deep hole, we are going to have to make sure that 
when our troops come home that they all come home. That means no 
permanent bases. It means ending our blind commitment to arming and 
training Iraqi security forces. It also means that come September, we 
must use the power of our purse, and we must begin to fully fund the 
safe redeployment of our young men and women and our contractors out of 
Iraq.

The civil war in Iraq is raging within the very security forces we 
are arming and training. Our weapons and expertise are being used for 
sectarian violence and for killing Americans and Iraqi civilians. This 
policy only further endangers our troops and fuels a civil war.

We must end the Bush administration's failed policy in Iraq. It has 
failed. We must reconsider this blind commitment to arming and training 
Iraqi security forces.

Let us support our troops, and I mean support our troops in a real 
way, by bringing them home. This is the will of the American people. 
That is the goal of the Out of Iraq Caucus. That is in the national 
security interests of our country.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the chairman, once again, for his 
leadership and for yielding.