# HONORING FIRST SERGEANT JOHN BLAIR
## `758c9031afd0f9ffb1ffa71eb4978d87`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 23 June 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor an American 
hero and a patriot who gave his life in defense of our Nation while 
serving with the Georgia National Guard in Afghanistan.

First Sergeant John Blair from Calhoun, Georgia, in my 11th 
Congressional District, was killed in action on June 20, 2009, just 
this past Saturday, when a rocked-propelled grenade struck his vehicle 
during an hour-and-a-half-long firefight with enemy forces after the 
convoy, which he was leading, was ambushed. Eyewitness accounts from 
soldiers serving alongside Sergeant Blair credit his actions with 
saving the lives of many of his fellow soldiers during the ambush. And 
as a credit to his leadership, his men kept their cool and they did 
their jobs, even after their commanding officer fell.



Blair has been described as a true leader, Madam Speaker, both for 
the American troops who served with him, as well as the 1st Brigade of 
the Afghan National Army's 203rd Corps who he was in charge of 
mentoring.

I want to quote a couple of lines that were written about Sergeant 
Blair in the military publication, ''Stars and Stripes'': ''Blair was 
their leader. He was tough, unrelenting. He cursed and reprimanded and 
gained not just their respect, but their fondness during the months of 
training for their deployment in Afghanistan. He could be harsh, but 
was fair and imparted to his men a sense of their potential.''

Other soldiers have echoed these comments, describing how Blair 
pushed them beyond their comfort levels to be their best and was even 
like a father figure for many of them.

Madam Speaker, Sergeant Blair carried these same characteristics to 
his service as a Gordon County sheriff's deputy and a Drug Task Force 
officer for many years in Calhoun, Georgia. In addition to his great 
service to our Nation and his community, John Blair was also a 
dedicated family man who was looking forward to spending quality time 
with his grandson when he returned home. What an amazing example of 
courage, selflessness and a love of country that Sergeant Blair 
provided, not only for his young grandson but, Madam Speaker, for all 
of us.

My prayers go out to his family. My deepest gratitude goes out to 
First Sergeant Blair for his selfless sacrifice for our Nation. I ask 
all Members to join me in honoring the distinguished memory of First 
Sergeant John Blair.
