---
---

# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `759067dd93b1de30a88616f99a165018`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman. I have a remark I 
would like to make in a few minutes. I know our friend and colleague, 
the gentleman from Tennessee, has some comments he would like to make. 
But I was struck, in view of the discussion we are having right here, 
that today in that hearing that the gentleman was just talking about, 
the Joint House Armed Services Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee 
hearing, that General Petraeus was forced, I believe is the right word, 
to do something that I find absolutely extraordinary.



I have got his report right here to Congress on the situation in 
Iraq.

In the second paragraph, after he thanks the chairmen and ranking 
members, he says, ''At the outset, I would like to note that this is my 
testimony. Although I have briefed my assessment and recommendations to 
my chain of command, I wrote this testimony myself. It has not been 
cleared by nor shared with anyone in the Pentagon, the White House or 
Congress.''

To think, one of the finest officers in the American Armed Forces 
felt it necessary to put this in the opening two sentences of his 
testimony, I find shocking and distressing. I am sure we will have more 
to say about that later.

But it is not only in response to this scurrilous ad, unforgivable ad 
that moveon.org has written, but, frankly, as my colleagues here know, 
there have been comments made by some of our colleagues directly 
challenging and questioning the integrity of General Petraeus. And when 
I saw this today, I was just appalled that we have reached that point.