# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `759e7d3d5ce712e2a9d51a6152503850`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut â€” 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of 
H.R. 2642, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2008, the annual spending bill for 
military construction and veterans' programs.

Today, the House is considering a bill that would appropriate $109.2 
billion, with $64.7 billion in discretionary spending for military 
construction and veterans' programs, which is $4 billion more than the 
President's fiscal year 2008 budget request. The bill would provide 
$43.2 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), which is 
$6.7 billion above 2007 and $3.8 billion over the President's request 
for veterans' medical care, claims processing personnel, and facility 
improvements. This includes $28.9 billion in funding to improve access 
to medical services for all veterans, which is $1.7 billion above the 
President's request. This legislation also defeats the President's ill-
advised proposals to nearly double co-pays for prescription drugs for 
veterans and to increase TRICARE premiums by over $1,000 a year for 
military retirees.

The military health care system is understaffed and drowning in a 
backlog of cases and unable to provide our veterans with the benefits 
and resources they sacrificed a great deal to earn. In an effort to 
reduce the 400,000 claim backlog, the bill also includes $1.6 billion 
in funding to enable the VA to hire over 1100 more claims processors. 
This legislation is the largest single increase in the 77-year history 
of the VA and for the first time in 21 years that the House has 
exceeded the request of the veterans' Independent Budget.

There are over 251,000 veterans living in Connecticut and I am 
pleased the 110th Congress has made funding our Nation's military 
health care system a top priority. Since the previous Congress 
adjourned without passing a budget, the new Congress passed a 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution (P.L. 110-5) that provided $3.4 
billion over the fiscal year 2006 funding level to fund the VA in 
fiscal year 2007. In addition, the Supplemental Appropriations Act 
(P.L. 110-28) added $1.8 billion directly targeted at the needs of 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Part of the cost of war 
is to care for our servicemen and women when they return home and 
Congress has an obligation to ensure they receive appropriate care.

I applaud the leadership of Mr. Edwards, chairman of the House 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs, and Mr. Obey, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, 
and the members of the committee for their efforts and continued 
commitment to our Nation's veterans. Today's legislation takes us one 
step further in providing our veterans with the best health care and 
resources our country can provide and I encourage my colleagues to join 
me in voting for it and the President in signing it into law.