# IRAQ
## `759eabfcd5a05e91bf345127ad0cee4f`
`Mr. CONYERS — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, tonight members of the Congressional Black 
Caucus stand with the American people to tell the President once more: 
it is time to end the war in Iraq. As co-chairs of the Out of Iraq 
Caucus, two of my fellow CBC members, Representatives Maxine Waters and 
Barbara Lee, are among the preeminent leaders in Congress in the fight 
to end this misbegotten war. I want to thank them for their leadership 
and for their tireless efforts to bring our troops home.

Last week's much-anticipated testimony, report and ''new plan'' were 
just more of the same. Once again refusing to heed the facts on the 
ground and the wishes of the American people, President Bush simply 
reiterated his


stubborn commitment to continue his failed policy in Iraq.

The ''progress'' reported by the Administration is arguable. But what 
is not subject to debate is this: there is no such thing as ''winning'' 
an occupation. We cannot have a military ''victory'' in Iraq. The only 
way out of this quagmire is a political solution. And after more than 
four years, there has been no political progress in Iraq. The President 
seems to believe that another 10 years of occupation, to the tune of 
trillions of dollars and thousands more American lives, is worth 
wagering on this disastrous conflict. The American people and the 
Congressional Black Caucus disagree.

The White House and its emissaries continue to urge the Congress and 
the American people to view the disastrous conflict in Iraq through 
rose-colored glasses. But we know better. No independent assessment of 
the situation in Iraq aligns with the picture presented by the White 
House. The Government Accountability Office reports that the Iraqi 
government has failed to meet 15 of the 18 benchmarks for success in 
Iraq as articulated by the President himself. The Jones Commission 
concludes that the Iraqi National Police force that we have spent 
millions of dollars training and equipping is 'dysfunctional,' riddled 
with sectarianism, corruption and inefficiency, and should be disbanded 
altogether. The consensus of the nation's intelligence community, in 
the latest National Intelligence Estimate, is that the 'level of 
overall violence, including attacks on and casualties among civilians 
remains high' and 'Iraq's sectarian groups remain unreconciled.'

Furthermore, the Administration's use of statistics to reinforce its 
claims of success is problematic. According to a report in the 
Washington Post, U.S. military leaders and the White House are 'cherry-
picking' data to bolster their claims that the President's failed war 
strategy is working. In order to support this claim, military and 
Administration calculations are based on a system of categorizing and 
excluding statistics that 'selectively ignored negative trends' and 
'puzzled' senior intelligence officials and the nation's chief auditor 
and head of the Government Accountability Office. For example, people 
who were killed by a shot to the back of the head are included as 
'sectarian' casualties, but those killed by a shot to the front of the 
head are not counted because they are assumed to be dead from 
'criminal' activity, according to an intelligence analyst quoted in the 
article.

In fact, the death toll in Iraq is rising. The Associated Press 
reports that while the President's escalation has succeeded in bringing 
violence in Baghdad down from peak levels, the death toll from 
sectarian attacks around the country is running nearly double the pace 
from a year ago. The AP counted 1,809 civilian deaths in August, making 
it the highest monthly total this year. Though the administration 
continually cites a reduction in violence in Anbar province as evidence 
of the surge's success, in fact, the Marines had already established 
ties to local Sunni leaders long before the 'surge' strategy was even 
announced. June, July and August 2007 marked the bloodiest summer so 
far for U.S. troops in Iraq, with 264 soldiers killed.

This grim picture is further reflected in Iraqi public opinion. A 
BBC/ABC News poll conducted in August concludes that Iraqi opinion is 
at its gloomiest since the polls began in February 2004. According to 
this latest poll, between 67 and 70 percent of Iraqis say the 
escalation has made things worse in the key areas of security, the 
conditions for political dialogue, reconstruction and economic 
development. A majority (57 percent) of Iraqis believe that attacks on 
coalition forces are acceptable, including 93 percent of Sunnis and 50 
percent of Shia.

The token drawdown of troops proposed by General Petraeus and 
endorsed by the President, in which nearly a year would pass before 
troop strength returns to pre-escalation levels, is neither a political 
compromise nor a ''new plan.'' In fact, this drawdown has been 
scheduled to take place since the beginning of the ''surge,'' because 
to do otherwise would stretch our military beyond the breaking point. 
So, in effect, the President is offering nothing at all in response to 
the demand of the American people and the Congress to bring our troops 
home--except another 10 years of war and occupation.

The President continues to ask our troops to referee a civil war 
whose outcome depends entirely on the actions of politicians in 
Baghdad. As General Petraeus himself has pointed out, the conflict in 
Iraq cannot be solved militarily; only a political settlement by Iraq's 
leaders can bring this conflict to an end. Yet, despite the fact that 
Iraqi politicians have made virtually no progress toward this goal in 
four years, the President insists on a continuing American military 
involvement, with no end in sight. The American people understand that 
this policy has failed, and this Congress will continue to fight to 
bring an end to this disaster and to bring our troops home.
