---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `75a05ddc979ba527045edfbd0ca3fa87`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I want to thank Mr. Berman and my colleagues for this 
opportunity to engage in this important debate.

At the current estimated deployment rate, the number of troops in 
Afghanistan will increase from about 70,000 at the end of 2009 to the 
stated goal of 100,000 by July of this year. My resolution calls for 
the withdrawal of all U.S. Armed Forces from Afghanistan no later than 
December 31 of this year. And it can be done. Unlike Iraq, where we 
have significant infrastructure built in and around the country to 
support our presence there, prior to last year, the United States 
invested very little in permanent infrastructure for U.S. Armed Forces 
in Afghanistan.

President Obama has called on the logisticians for the U.S. military 
to triple the amount of troops we have had in the country since the war 
started. If the administration expects the U.S. military to figure out 
a way for a rapid increase of troops on the ground, we can figure out 
how to have a method of rapid withdrawal.

Getting supplies into Afghanistan is one of the biggest obstacles to 
providing adequate support for troops on the ground. Due to frequent 
attacks on U.S. convoys traveling to Afghanistan through Pakistan, the 
U.S. is forced to deliver most of the supplies by air.

Madam Speaker, we have, in the last 3 hours, talked about 1,000 troop 
casualties; we have talked about a cost of a quarter of a trillion 
dollars and rising; we have spoken of civilian casualties and about the 
incredible amount of corruption that is going on in Afghanistan; we 
have spoken of the role of the pipeline, which is sure to deserve more 
critical inquiry; and we have talked about the failure of doctrines of 
counterinsurgency. That strategy doesn't work, and there are logistics 
of withdrawal that we can pursue.

The question is should the United States' people continue to bear the 
burden of this war when we have so many problems at home, with 15 
million people unemployed, with millions of people losing their homes, 
with so many people without health care, with so many people not being 
able to send their children to good schools.

We have to reset our priorities. Our priorities should begin by 
getting out of Afghanistan, and then we can turn to getting out of 
Iraq.

Thank you very much for this debate. I urge approval of the 
resolution.