---
---

# CONGRATULATING ISRAEL ON ITS 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF INDEPENDENCE
## `75aef9a64aeba1841365be79048fddb3`
`Mr. McHUGH — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. McHUGH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate and commend 
the State of Israel on the 60th anniversary of its independence. On May 
14, 1948, Israel declared its independence. Within 11 minutes, the 
United States became the first nation to give de facto recognition to 
the State of Israel. America's friendship with Israel continues to this 
day. Having visited Israel several times, I know well that Israelis and 
Americans share the common values of peace, freedom and democracy.

The modem state of Israel is a safe haven for Jews from all corners 
of the world. Since its founding, Israel has been a home to Holocaust 
survivors and their descendants, as well as Jews fleeing oppression. 
While strides have been made to combat global anti-Semitism, I am 
disappointed that recent reports indicate a rise in anti-Semitism 
worldwide.

A strong and secure Israel is vital to America's national interest. 
Israelis know all too well the terror of indiscriminate homicide 
attacks by radical terrorists. The enemies of Israel have also targeted 
their attacks against Americans. The terrorist group Hamas is 
responsible for the deaths of at least 26 Americans, including 
teenagers and young children. In 1983 Hezbollah bombed the U.S. embassy 
in Beirut. Hezbollah was also involved in the bombing of the United 
States Marine barracks, in an attack that claimed the lives of 241 
American servicemen. These groups operate with support and funding from 
Iran, a country whose president has called for Israel to be ''wiped off 
the map.'' Hamas continues to launch rockets into Israel, terrorizing 
innocent civilians living near the Gaza border. However, Israelis have 
shown tremendous courage in the face of these hostilities. Despite the 
constant threat of annihilation, Israelis have made the desert bloom. 
They have created a flourishing culture and society. Israel has also 
developed a thriving economy and is the world's leader in the 
development of many cutting edge industries. Israeli technology has 
even been used to help keep our troops safe in battle in the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, I join my colleagues in congratulating the State of 
Israel on its 60th anniversary, and express my sincere hope that the 
next 60 years come with peace and security for our close friend and 
ally.
