---
---

# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `75b21897f4f3aade9808541aa37e038e`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. It's interesting on the day that reports are 
coming out about the 900-plus misstatements leading into the war that 
were made by this administration that the idea that this had been known 
for 5 years, that it had been very clear. And I would quote former 
Republican Senator Allen and current Republican


Senator Collins when he said, Protection of American POWs is a vital 
national security interest, and the goal of rebuilding Iraq should not 
be viewed as inconsistent with that goal.

Now, what the gentleman from Iowa has so clearly pointed out and the 
gentlewoman from New Hampshire alluded to is in this idea of this 
global war on terror, the winning the hearts and minds of the rest of 
the world, one of the things is what those core beliefs and core values 
of the United States stand for.

And the gentleman mentioned and talked about on the floor of this 
sacred ground of democracy, Members of this body have clearly 
articulated in the exact words that waterboarding is a useful tool; 
turning someone upside down, stuffing a rag in their mouth and pouring 
water in their mouth under a circumstance where they believe they are 
going to drown is acceptable.

Now the idea of me being a history teacher coming to this body out of 
the classroom that I would ever stand here and speak of things seemed 
incredible.

But to think that I would stand here and have to define what torture 
is to other Members of this body is incomprehensible to me. And I tell 
a story about why this is so important and why we understood Geneva 
Convention, why we understood that by adhering to these things, it 
pushed our values forward.

I was teaching a ninth grade history class, and one of the 
assignments was to go back and interview a family member who had had 
some type of context in the Second World War, if they could find a 
grandparent or great uncle or someone. And the ninth graders came back 
and reported. And I remember a young man named Bill Wilbrand came 
forward, and he was telling an incredible story of battle, of heroism, 
of incredible terror and talking to his grandfather, telling him the 
story where he was captured by the enemy and he was taken away and he 
was shipped a long distance and put into a POW camp.

And the other ninth graders are like, Wow. That was your grampa? What 
happened? Well, it was kind of cold and the food was not great but not 
too bad and, you know, things were okay. And they said, Well, what 
happened afterwards? Well, he stayed here. He was a German and he was a 
prisoner of the Americans, and they brought him to Western Nebraska to 
a prisoner-of-war camp. And he was treated so well, he said, I will 
stay here and bring my family here, and his family, of course, is 
American.

The idea was he saw the values. He saw the dignity. He understood 
what those American soldiers were. They disagreed with the tyranny of 
the Nazi regime. They disagreed with what was happening, and they would 
fight and give their lives to stop that. But when an individual came 
under their care, they were treated with dignity.

And there was a sense of, that word swept through. That's why you had 
entire units say this is what is happening. The rest of the world saw 
America as righteous in fighting for the right causes.

Now we are in a situation where we have absolved a stated terrorist 
state, the regime of Saddam Hussein, and those people who took and 
tortured American soldiers and said, You know what? It's okay. We will 
just brush it under the carpet and hope it goes away.

And those 17 families, well, you know, we can't repay up. We will say 
thank you a lot. We'll stand in front of flags, and we'll pat them on 
the back. But we won't let them go through the recourse of the courts. 
We won't let them adhere to the basic values that the gentleman from 
Iowa said that predated this country, the idea of being heard by a jury 
of your peers, by getting recourse no matter where you stand in the 
hierarchy, no matter where you are economically.

But not these 17. They volunteered. They fought to defend this 
Nation. They served honorably. And they endured some of the most 
excruciating things that have been described here. And in one easy 
stroke today, they have been let down.

I don't know what to say when I hear the story of Colonel Berryman. 
And I think of his family, Madam Speaker. I don't know what words can 
come off this House floor to tell them the wrong that has been done to 
them. And it's all going to be done in the name of supporting the 
troops. It's all going to be done in the typical fashion that it is 
just us not able to get anything done.

When we made that horrible decision to fund veterans health care, to 
fund the vehicles that will protect them in combat and to give them a 
pay raise, to maybe hope that that mother sitting at home can take kids 
out to the movie on Saturday while Dad is in Iraq fighting for the 
Nation, we weren't going to hold that up so that was the choice we were 
given. So I can tell the Berrymans and others like him, Madam Speaker, 
that I'm sure not proud of that decision, but that's what we are 
dealing with coming down from Pennsylvania Avenue.