# INTRODUCING A RESOLUTION CONDEMNING THE RECENT TERRORIST ATTACKS IN  ALGERIA
## `75ce617f9bf7872141893259d1d1175b`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, as Chairman of the Commission 
on Security and Cooperation in Europe, otherwise called the Helsinki 
Commission, I rise to introduce a resolution which condemns in the 
strongest terms, the terrorist bombing of the Algerian Supreme Court 
and United Nations offices in Algiers, Algeria on December 11, 2007.

These deplorable attacks upon civilian targets took the lives of 37 
people, including 17 United Nations employees, and injured numerous 
others. As a consequence of the destruction of the United Nations 
Development Programme office and the damage to the U.N. High 
Commissioner for Refugees office in Algiers, the capacity of the world 
body to carry out its operations in Algiers has been seriously 
diminished.

We subsequently learned that the December 11 attacks were the work of 
al-Qaeda in the Maghreb, a North African affiliate of al-Qaeda. This 
same organization claimed responsibility for several previous attacks 
in Algeria and Morocco, using tactics similar to those employed by 
their al-Qaeda brethren in Iraq, where they indiscriminately wreak upon 
civilians and military targets. These inhumane attacks are intended to 
sow insecurity and divisiveness, and, as in Iraq, can impede progress 
in the social and economic spheres.


The attacks illuminate al-Qaeda's determination to continue to spread 
its destructive aims globally by perpetuating violence against innocent 
civilians. But they should also reinforce the imperative of the 
community of civilized nations to stamp out terrorism in all its forms.

Algeria is a Mediterranean Partner of the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), within whose ambit the Helsinki 
Commission carries out its mandate. The OSCE has among its highest 
priorities a commitment to combating terrorism, and the Algerian 
Government has been unwavering in its efforts to defeat terrorism, a 
goal that the United States shares.

Through our recent experience with terrorism, Americans understand 
the pain now suffered by the Algerian people for the loss of so many 
innocent lives and the injury of numerous others. Today, we affirm our 
support for the people and Government of Algeria in their continued 
struggle against extremism and violence.

That is why, together with my good friend Congressman Bill Delahunt, 
Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on 
International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight, I am 
introducing today's resolution, which condemns the senseless acts of 
violence against the Algerian people and the United Nations on December 
11. This resolution also expresses our profound sympathy for the 
victims of the bombings; the support of the U.S. House of 
Representatives for the Algerian people in their continued efforts to 
secure peace for their nation; and support for the Algerian authorities 
in bringing the perpetrators of the attacks to justice. Chairman 
Delahunt's commitment to advancing peace, human rights, and security 
are laudable and long-standing. I am deeply proud to work with him on 
this resolution.
