# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `75e5d94020b7dc820ccf4b0303b5110e`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 26 April 2007`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, I would like to speak just for a few 
moments, not about the pending business, which I know is extremely 
important and that debate will go on throughout the day and perhaps 
over the next several days as we try to make decisions about 
supplemental spending for the Gulf of Mexico and the importance of the 
emergency that is still underway there, and as we try to debate the 
best way to find success in Iraq.

I wanted to take a moment to speak about another issue that is 
important today to many Americans. In fact, we are celebrating that day 
on Capitol Hill. It is called Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day.

I have been honored over the many years with my cochair, Senator Kay 
Bailey Hutchison, who is on the floor of the Senate today, to cohost 
this event for the Senate. We have many colleagues and staff members 
who participate in bringing their children and grandchildren and 
friends and neighbors to the Capitol to work to see the work of the 
Senate and the Capitol--how it happens, who makes it happen, and the 
significance of it. These children come from all over our country and 
take this experience back to their classrooms and into their homes and 
neighborhoods and share with their friends throughout the year.

I thank Ms. Magazine for starting this. Over 35 million adults and 
children will participate today. So in skyscrapers all over America, 
and on farms out in our rural areas, in small businesses and 
restaurants and small little boutique hotels, and even in home offices, 
children will be working with their parents or with their grandparents 
understanding the value of work, understanding and exploring options 
for themselves as they grow, and trying to make choices about how they 
can contribute significantly to this economy and to being part of the 
world community.

So I am pleased today to be able to submit for the Record the names 
of 14 young ladies who are with me today. I am not going to take the 
time to read their names, but I will submit them for the Record. They 
are from New Orleans, LA, and some from Manderville; some are from 
Washington, DC, friends of the family who are here; and others are from 
outlying areas such as Maryland and Virginia who have joined us today 
to be part of the Senate.

Already this morning some of these girls have participated in closing 
the gap with the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation that met on 
Capitol Hill out on the west lawn of our Capitol this morning to talk 
about the great effort that is being made to address breast cancer, 
particularly in this country, and to not only find cures but to offer 
preventive measures to help women and families stay healthy in our 
country. They have already participated in a press conference and will 
be joining us later today as we work through our offices in and around 
the Senate complex.

I wanted to welcome them to the Senate. I will submit their names to 
be printed in the Record, and I encourage anyone in the Capitol 
complex, if you are not participating today, to think about next year 
and what you could do to contribute to make this day a special day for 
some child in either your family or in your community who could use an 
extra boost or some insight into a possible career for themselves.

I thank Senator Reid for making the tour of the Senate possible today 
for the young girls and boys who got to spend some time on the floor 
earlier this morning, and I thank minority leader Mitch McConnell for 
arranging the special tours for that as well.

Mr. President, I again thank Ms. Magazine for an extraordinary 
effort. I know the children enjoy getting a day off from school, but it 
is more than that, and I have enjoyed participating these many years.

I ask unanimous consent that the list to which I referred be printed 
in the Record.