# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `75e74e21226941ed33b84f4f2c30fe5f`
`Mr. BERMAN — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the resolution, and 
I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, this is the second time in 4 months we are debating a 
resolution under the War Powers Act. I welcome congressional scrutiny 
of the commitment of U.S. forces abroad, and I appreciate the gentleman 
from Ohio's effort to focus attention on one of the most sacred duties 
of Congress.

But once again, I have to take issue with the invocation of Section 
5(c) of the War Powers Act as the basis for this debate. That section 
authorizes a privileged resolution, like the one before us today, to 
require the withdrawal of U.S. Armed Forces when they are engaged in 
hostilities and Congress has not authorized the use of military force.

Whereas the Afghanistan war powers debate focused on whether there 
was an authorization for U.S. military force, here we do not even reach 
that question because, based on everything I know, U.S. forces are not 
engaged in hostilities in Pakistan.

The Wall Street Journal article distributed by my friend from Ohio 
refers to the U.S. military's role in training and humanitarian 
assistance programs in Pakistan. That's not ''engaging in 
hostilities.'' In fact, our Armed Forces participate in these types of 
programs in dozens of countries around the world.

The gentleman refers to the terrible tragedy of three U.S. forces 
killed by an IED. They were on a humanitarian aid mission. We have 
people on such missions, people involved in military training, 
uniformed officers, who have been killed in many different parts of the 
world. From that, one does not draw the conclusion that the U.S. is 
engaged in hostilities with enemy forces. In fact, since U.S. forces 
are not engaged in hostilities in Pakistan, there is no factual basis 
for invoking the War Powers Act.

Mr. Speaker, Pakistan is an important partner in the fight against 
extremism.



Last year Congress demonstrated America's long-term commitment to 
Pakistan by passing the Enhanced Partnership with Pakistan Act of 2009. 
Any attempt to cut the military ties between our two countries would be 
counterproductive for our national security interest in the region.

No matter what your position on the situation in Afghanistan, whether 
you think we should withdraw tomorrow, shift from a counterinsurgency 
strategy to a counterterrorism strategy, or send in even more troops, 
there is no reason to automatically conclude that we should cease our 
efforts to help Pakistan address the dire threats to its security.

In 1990, we stopped providing military assistance and training to 
Pakistan for what seemed like a good reason at the time. But as a 
result, a whole generation of Pakistani military officers rose through 
the ranks without any connection or affinity with the United States, 
and that contributed to some of the suspicion and mistrust that we are 
still struggling to overcome.

Mr. Speaker, there is no question that Pakistan needs to step up in a 
number of important areas. We hope to improve cooperation on various 
security issues, strengthen the role of Pakistan's democratically 
elected government and achieve a greater parity between military and 
civilian assistance. The United States is aiding Pakistan because it is 
in our interest to ensure an economically and politically stable 
Pakistan does not provide sanctuary for al Qaeda and other terrorist 
organizations.

The reports in recent days that elements of the Pakistani 
intelligence service may have been aiding our enemies is nothing new to 
those of us who have been following this issue and is not a reason to 
abandon our many friends in Pakistan who are struggling to modernize 
their economy, their political system, and their military. The security 
forces of Pakistan are steadily taking on a Taliban-backed insurgency, 
taking direct action against those who threaten Pakistan's security 
instability, including military operations in the Federally 
Administered Tribal Areas and the North West Frontier Province.

Mr. Speaker, I am concerned that using the War Powers Act to call for 
the removal of U.S. combat forces, which do not exist, will only serve 
to inflame Pakistan's sensibilities and do nothing to strengthen the 
partnership that we need to achieve our goals in this critical region.

I urge my colleagues to oppose the resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.