# ENERGY
## `75ed55f2eeba8014a105787ccdf08cae`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 17 September 2008`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Mr. Speaker, I don't know how many people have been 
watching the last hour, and I don't know that I can straighten it out 
in the next hour. But I do want to start out with something that is 
kind of elementary, I guess, to most people, but I want to explain the 
makeup of Congress. And excuse my penmanship.



The House consists of 435 Members. The Democrats have 235, and that's 
because of the loss of the late Stephanie Tubbs Jones.

The Republicans have 199 Members.

You can see that the Democrat number is larger than our number.

To get anything passed in this body, it takes 218 votes. You can see 
that the Democrats have more than 218 votes. In the Senate, 100 
Members; Democrats have 51, Republicans have 49.

The Democrats have had the majority in Congress since January of 
2007. And so what that says to me is that all of the stuff that I have 
heard in the last hour, Mr. Speaker, if they've got all the answers, 
why haven't they been brought to the floor?

Now I'm sure that's a question that many of us are asking because if 
they are in control and they've got all of the brilliant ideas that's 
going to save the world, then why haven't they brought them to the 
floor and put 218 votes up to pass it out of the House? That's got to 
be a question on a lot of people's minds.

Now in order to gain the majority, there were some things said and 
some things promised during the campaign cycle that led up to the new 
majority.

Here is one of their promises: ''Members should have at least 24 
hours to examine bill and conference report text prior to floor 
consideration. Rules governing floor debate must be reported before 10 
p.m. for a bill to be considered the following day.''

This was Speaker Pelosi in a New Direction for America, 2006.

Let me say that the sham of an energy bill that was brought to this 
floor yesterday was presented the night before to the Rules Committee 
at 10:45. This is just a little example of what we've been faced with 
and the fact that the new majority won that majority by saying such 
things as this that the people believed that they would actually carry 
on.

I will tell you that this is not a rule. They did not make this a 
rule. This was one of those empty promises.

Let's look at something else. Speaker Pelosi in 2006 before they 
gained the majority: ''Bills should generally come to the floor under a 
procedure that allows open, full, and fair debate consisting of a full 
amendment process that grants the minority the right to offer its 
alternatives, including a substitute.''

Since the new majority has been in in 2007 and 2008, they have had 
over 60 closed rules, which means that there are no amendments, you 
can't bring your ideas here and have them openly debated. The last 
energy bill that was here was one of those rules. I might add in the 
109th Congress when Republicans were in control, we had just about half 
of that amount in closed rules.

Now here is the thing that I think that most people will get a grasp 
on, Mr. Speaker. This was by Representative Paul Kanjorski when he was 
in his hometown after becoming the majority. He was in his hometown, 
and he was asked about the Democrats' promise to bring back the troops 
from Iraq. And as he was talking--but this kind of relates to 
everything that has been said by them to gain the majority--before he 
said this, he said, ''In our desire to win back the majority, we sort 
of stretched the truth and people ate it up.''

Well, you know, that's something.

But then we got to the point where we're at today with the energy 
crisis. In 2007 when the Democrats took over, gas was about $2.10 a 
gallon. Unemployment was 4.5 percent. Today, gas is over $4 a gallon 
and employment is 6.1 percent, but yet they want to blame the 
Republicans. Now they're constantly blaming President Bush. I don't 
know, Mr. Speaker, but I have never seen President Bush in this body 
casting a vote.

In fact, if you've studied your government, you know that there's an 
executive branch, there's a legislative branch, and there's a judicial 
branch. The legislative branch is responsible for making laws.

Now if you go back to the first chart, you can remember that they 
have more than enough to pass anything that they want to in this body, 
and they control the Senate.

So what is the problem? We don't know. We want to understand why we 
are constantly being blamed. They talked about the economic problems. 
They've been in control since January of 2007. They passed a housing 
bill that gave Secretary Paulson the ability to do what he's doing with 
some of these bailouts. The majority of Republicans voted against that 
bill. So when are we going to take some responsibility and stop all of 
the blame shifting?



We've got some Members here tonight that might want to explain some 
of that to you because it's a problem when the people in control want 
to blame somebody else for their problems. I heard them mention the 
SCHIP. Why didn't they proceed with it, continue on with that 
leadership if they thought that was the right thing to do rather than 
caving? No idea. I have no idea.

Why have they not done some of the other things that they talk about 
that would help with the economic crisis that we find ourselves in 
today? Hopefully we will give you some of those answers.

Now I would like to recognize my good friend from the State of 
Tennessee (Mr. Wamp).