---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `75ef29f14e2013fe0208884c9cc9293f`
`Mrs. BIGGERT — 14 May 2009`

---


Mrs. BIGGERT. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this closed rule. I 
offered an amendment yesterday to address an injustice against the 
members of our armed services that were shut out by this proposed rule.

Briefly, my amendment would have increased the across-the-board 
military personnel pay for 2009 from 3.9 percent to 4.4 percent. This 
pay raise would have been effective retroactively from January 1, 2009.

According to estimates by the Congressional Research Service, the pay 
gap between military personnel and civilians in comparable positions is 
3 percent. Particularly during a recession, it is unacceptable that our 
men and women in uniform receive less than their civilian counterparts.

I was just in Afghanistan over the weekend and had the opportunity to 
meet and work with the wonderful committed and professional group of 
men and women in the military. They've been serving us to keep us safe 
and to establish the stability in the Middle East. But given this 
shortfall in pay, I thought it was appropriate to provide for our 
troops some supplemental income in this supplemental appropriations 
bill. Unfortunately this rule would not even allow an up or down vote 
on my amendment.

Mr. Speaker, I cannot support this continued abuse of process. I urge 
my colleagues to oppose this rule.