# None
## `75f3a9892fd098937d37edfc3c879c7a`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the gentleman for that clarification, because 
that is instructive when we do hear from the other side, the 
unproductivity alleged of this Congress.

How about this. The gentleman from Florida talked about the 
tremendous strain, as did the gentlewoman from New York, the tremendous 
strain our families of our men and women who are in the Guard and 
Reserve that are being deployed not once, not twice, but multiple 
redeployments, four, even five times now as we head into the sixth year 
of the war in Iraq, and we have been in Afghanistan since before that. 
So these families are left behind, and they have to struggle just to 
make ends meet.

What has this Congress done about it? We are being told on the other 
side we haven't done anything, we don't have any record. Well, let me 
tell you what this Congress has done about it. This has been signed 
into law.

We expanded the Family and Medical Leave Act for the first time to 
cover the families of our military Guard and Reserve, people who are 
putting their lives on the line for us with multiple redeployment 
overseas. And now, because of the action in this Congress, you can use 
Family and Medical Leave Act time to care for a wounded service man or 
woman when they come back, to use time to reassimilate as a family, to 
get to know your kids again and get to know your spouse again after 
being away for 15 months. And while they are gone, the spouse can use 
that time to attend these deployment briefings that happen often during 
the workday and they can't get time off of work, they can use it for 
child care, they can use it to get their economic house in order and 
deal with the household finances, things that weren't covered before.

That is a law that is going to directly impact people's lives. It is 
going to make it a little bit easier for the families of our military 
Guard and Reserve, and that is something that we did in this Congress 
after the previous Congresses had done nothing to address the issue.

So, I do take offense to the comment that the gentleman from Ohio 
relayed that had been made about how we had done nothing.