# PARTY INSTITUTES
## `75fa99a276cc80adcad827471bd884da`
`Mr. REID — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, many years ago the Congress created the 
party institutes to do development work across the world, building 
democratic institutions from Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa, to the 
Middle East. They have come such a long way in the time since they were 
created. Their workers serve in extremely tough and very dangerous 
situations and conditions. John McCain has been chairman of the 
International Republican Institute, and Madeleine Albright chairs the 
National Democratic Institute for International Affairs. We appreciate 
so much the work and service both these institutes perform throughout 
the world in developing and creating democracies.

I am so sad to report that yesterday in Baghdad a convoy carrying a 
team of NDI employees was attacked and four NDI employees were killed, 
including one American. This tragedy is a reminder that we have 
sacrifices of all kinds being made on behalf of democracy across the 
world. The Nation mourns the losses that occur in Iraq on


a daily basis. Yesterday, 170 Iraqis were killed that we know of, 4 
Americans. I haven't received the reports this morning on what happened 
last night. We also mourn for people like these gallant individuals, 
who were there trying to make the world a better place. Our thoughts go 
out to the families of these four individuals. Later today, their names 
will be spread across the Record of the U.S. Senate.
