# None
## `7618ba12a6bd7956f2a919c0d46ef7b6`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank Dr. Price for yielding and for really 
exerting the leadership to take the floor week after week and shine the 
light of truth on a lot of the obfuscation which, unfortunately, takes 
place on this floor and in this House.

We had the opportunity to chat a little bit today about the Democrat 
Party's plan here in the upcoming weeks with the supplemental funding 
and, in general, their plans for the war against Islamist extremists, 
the war, if you will, which is being certainly heavily fought in Iraq. 
And they do kind of have a plan. Their plan is not a plan for victory, 
however, and that is what I think we need to keep in mind. Their plan 
simply says: get out; get out of Iraq. And that is not a plan for 
victory.

There is a very interesting headline; perhaps you had a chance to 
talk about it before I made it down to the floor. In the Los Angeles 
Times editorial, it starts with a little headline that says: ''Do we 
really need a General Pelosi?'' I will quote: ''Imagine if Dwight 
Eisenhower had been forced to adhere to a congressional war plan in 
scheduling the Normandy landing, or if, in 1863, President Lincoln had 
been forced by Congress to conclude the Civil War the following year. 
This is the worst kind of congressional meddling in military 
strategy.'' The Los Angeles Times, not the place I would normally go to 
find criticism of the Democrat majority.

Well, I think that you and I would certainly concur that we don't 
need a General Pelosi. But we do have a general. We have a new general 
on the ground in Iraq, General David Petraeus, named by the Commander 
in Chief to execute this new strategy in Iraq, and confirmed, by the 
way, with no dissenting votes in the United States Senate.

Let me just go through a few quotes that the new commander has shared 
with us in the last couple of months. This is General David Petraeus, 
the commander of multi-national forces in Iraq, senior commander on the 
ground. In looking at what would happen if we precipitously withdrew 
from Iraq, he said, a number of other potential outcomes, none of which 
are positive, could occur: ''Sectarian groups would obviously begin to 
stake out their turf, try to expand their turf. They would do that by 
greatly increased ethnic cleansing.''

On another occasion he said: ''The very real possibility of 
involvement of countries from elsewhere in the region around Iraq 
entering Iraq to take sides with one or the other groups.''

A new quote: ''The possibility of an international terrorist 
organization truly getting a grip on some substantial piece of Iraq.''

New quote: ''There is the possibility of problems in the global 
economy, should in fact this cause a disruption to the flow of oil,'' 
and so forth.

We have a general on the ground, I would say to my colleagues, and it 
is General David Petraeus, and it should not be either General Pelosi 
or, for that matter, anybody else in this body. We cannot, we cannot 
prosecute foreign policy at all and certainly a military operation with 
535, or maybe it is 540 with the delegates voting, different Commanders 
in Chief. You cannot run an operation like this by committee. And I 
think it would behoove us, certainly as Members of this body, but as 
American people, to go with the Constitution, recognize that the 
Commander in Chief is in fact elected by the Nation to be that, and to 
abide by one of the fundamental principles of military operations, and 
that is unity of command. That is now being exercised by the Commander 
in Chief overall, and by General David Petraeus in Iraq.