# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `7622aff16239b2789140d2f02cb3e0b9`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 21 May 2009`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I rise to speak about the supplemental 
that is before the Senate in terms of the appropriations. Much of this 
bill is about supporting the men and women wearing the uniform of the 
United States who are serving this country around the world and acting 
as sentinels for America's freedom around the world.

The question is, Will we appropriate the resources necessary to match 
the challenge we have given them and the call to service we have asked 
of them? That is what this appropriations supplemental bill is largely 
all about.

In that context, there is one particular area of funding that doesn't 
go to where we have troops but where we, in fact, care about what is 
happening in part of the world, and that is Pakistan. We care about it 
because it is along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border; the area where, in 
fact, Osama bin Laden likely exists; the area al-Qaida is operating in, 
crossing back and forth along that border in order to attack our troops 
in Afghanistan; and also because of the Taliban. So we have clear 
national security interests as it relates to that part of the world.

We all agree the situation in Pakistan is probably at the top of the 
list of our most serious national security challenges because this is 
where al-Qaida has reconstituted itself, and this was the entity, along 
with bin Laden, that struck us on that fateful day of September 11.

Late last month, the Secretary of State warned us that Pakistan's 
government is facing an ''existential threat'' from Islamist militants 
who have established operations dangerously close to the capital city 
of Islamabad. These are militants who wish to do us harm, plot new 
terrorist attacks or, God forbid, seize control of that country's 
nuclear arsenal. There are plenty of reasons for the United States to 
be engaged. Since 2001, Pakistan has received more than $12 billion in 
assistance from the U.S. Government. The idea behind the assistance has 
been to support democratic institutions, human rights, economic 
development, along with counterterrorism operations to fight the 
Taliban and al-Qaida and create the conditions for stability in the 
country.

Unfortunately, under the lax oversight of the Bush administration, 
that assistance had very few strings attached to it, and under that 
administration it is hard to see what kind of results we actually 
achieved for the money we spent. Democracy and institutions of civil 
society are as fragile as


ever, the Taliban is expanding its reach, and we have heard reports 
about the Pakistani Government expanding its nuclear arsenal. So $12 
billion later, the way we sent assistance may or may not have worked 
for Pakistan, but it certainly didn't work for us.

So, Madam President, we have to constantly ask ourselves: How are we 
using our money in pursuit of our national interests and our national 
security interest, and what type of benchmarks and progress are we 
making so that we can, in fact, respond both as fiduciaries to the 
taxpayers of the country and, at the same time, in measuring benchmarks 
toward our national security goals?

It is our responsibility to see that there is transparency and 
accountability in whatever assistance we are providing, and as the 
administration makes the case to reverse what it acknowledges are 
''rapidly deteriorating security and economic conditions'' there, we 
have to make sure the funding we are sending over is actually doing its 
part to make the situation better.

We have to ask those questions about the Pakistan funding in this 
current supplemental bill as well. For starters, in this supplemental, 
I think when we look at it, it is pretty significant. There is over 
$1.6 billion in the supplemental for Pakistan, including $400 million 
for the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund, $439 million in 
economic support funds, and $700 million in coalition support funds.

I am concerned about the funding, but I want to specifically talk 
about the $700 million in coalition support funds. Those funds are used 
to reimburse the Pakistani Government for the logistical and military 
expenses of fighting Islamist militants.

As the Pakistani military increases these activities--and we have 
seen those military activities finally take place in a way that we 
think is moving in the right direction--those coalition support funds 
are expected to increase substantially as well. So if we are going to 
have a shot at the militants, we are going to need to provide support. 
And we are agreed on that, I think. But that does not mean we should be 
sending out blank checks.

Along with my distinguished colleague from Iowa, Senator Harkin, and 
several colleagues in the House, we suggested the Government 
Accountability Office look into the assistance we provided to Pakistan, 
including the $6.9 billion in coalition support funds it received. In a 
June 2008 report, the GAO found that the Pentagon did not consistently 
verify Pakistani claims for reimbursement, and additional oversight 
controls were needed.

Here is an example from that report. The United States was 
reimbursing the Pakistani Government $19,000 per month for each of 
about 20 passenger vehicles, about $9 million in total, even though we 
later found out that we were paying for the same 20 vehicles over and 
over.

A February 2009 report that we also asked for echoed and confirmed 
those findings and said that the Pentagon needed to improve oversight 
of coalition support funds reimbursements.

Earlier today at a Foreign Relations hearing I asked Admiral Mullen, 
and he acknowledged we have not had good controls in the past on 
coalition support funds, but he assured the committee the controls have 
improved and additional steps are being taken to make sure the funds 
are being used wisely.

The Deputy Secretary of Defense outlined these steps in a letter to 
Chairman Kerry last month, including new guidelines, additional face-
to-face meetings with Pakistani counterparts, and additional visits by 
the Department of Defense to Pakistan to refine the coalition support 
fund claim processing and validate procedures.

Personally, I have met with Ambassador Holbrooke, our special envoy 
to this region, as well as questioned Secretary Clinton yesterday 
before the Foreign Relations Committee, and they both assured me this 
administration is developing metrics to measure success and change the 
way we engage in Pakistan so we can defeat the militants and bring 
stability to the country and the region. I am pleased to see these 
steps being taken and I look forward to closely monitoring them as we 
move forward.

Let me conclude by saying we all realize that conditions on the 
ground make detailed reporting and accountability a major challenge. We 
cannot expect to be getting daily comprehensive spreadsheets e-mailed 
from every remote mountain region. But as best as we can, it is the 
responsibility of this Congress to ensure that all of our funds are 
being used in a manner that is advancing our national interests and our 
national security interests.

With these changes that have taken place, I think--partly because we 
have asked for these reports, partly because of the questioning at 
these hearings, partly because of the new leadership of the 
administration--I plan to vote for the supplemental. In doing so, 
however, I want to send a very clear message that it is not and should 
not be construed as a blank check. I have concerns with the coalition 
support fund program and concern about Pakistan's nuclear program. 
Money is fungible, and I am concerned as we send money to Pakistan for 
one purpose that frees up their money to be buying nuclear weapons, 
something that is not in our interest or in the interest of that part 
of the world. I am glad the Obama administration is taking steps to 
ensure accountability and in the future we need to do even more. We 
need to be sure we do not wind up right back here a year from now, 
having to say the same things. We cannot afford to yet again take one 
step forward and two steps back, and above all we cannot afford to be 
sending such resources without achieving the national goals of security 
and the interests we have. That is the best way to make sure we do not 
lose sight of our goal here and that is also the best way we keep 
America safe.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.