# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `7625e769d50565ba4e39988fd4e6c7a0`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for the 
opportunity to address this very important issue, and I want to 
congratulate and thank my colleague and friend, Congressman Boswell, 
for his persistence in seeing this bill to its conclusion and, again, 
thank the ranking member for the bipartisan support for this bill.

One of the most moving experiences I've had in this body is standing 
on the floor when we first spoke about this bill and heard overwhelming 
support and great personal testimony from people on both sides of the 
aisle.

I want to put a human face on the bill we are talking about. This is 
Joshua Omvig, and these are his parents, Randy and Ellen Omvig. I've 
known Randy and Ellen for almost 20 years. They're warm, caring, decent 
Iowans who loved their son and who are with us here in spirit as this 
bill makes its final journey through Congress on its way to the White 
House.

Joshua was a brave young man who served in a military police unit in 
Davenport, Iowa, which is in the First District that I happen to 
represent, and Joshua's face has become a national face for the issue 
and the crisis that brings us here today.

People who deal with post-traumatic stress disorder, especially PTSD 
involving veterans, will tell you this is the hidden combat wound. When 
these veterans return with PTSD, they can be walking on the streets of 
your city, your town, your community; and you will not know that they 
are suffering because of the nature of the disease.

What's even more significant is that people suffering from PTSD are 
frequently the last people to know they've got a problem, and that's 
why this bill is so important, so that people coming back and veterans 
who are suffering from PTSD get the resources, the early screening and 
the early prevention and intervention necessary to make a difference in 
their lives and to save the next Joshua Omvig who faces this struggle 
without the necessary resources and support.

I'm proud to be part of this overwhelming bipartisan effort in the 
House of Representatives to take care of our wounded veterans, our 
aging veterans, and our new veterans coming back from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. You've heard the statistics about the overwhelming nature 
of this problem among current combat veterans. That's why this bill is 
so important, and I ask my colleagues to join me today.

I rise to speak in support of H.R. 327, the Joshua Omvig Veterans 
Suicide Prevention Act. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this 
crucial legislation, introduced by my friend and colleague from Iowa, 
Congressman Boswell, and I am very pleased that the Senate has acted 
and that the House is again passing this bill today.

Named in honor of 22-year-old Joshua Omvig, an Army Reservist from 
Iowa who tragically took his own life after serving an 11-month tour of 
duty in Iraq, this legislation is an essential and overdue step in 
ensuring adequate mental health care for our troops who return home 
from serving in combat zones. The need for this legislation could not 
be more urgent, as more and more soldiers are returning home from Iraq 
and Afghanistan suffering from PTSD, TBI, and other combat-related 
mental health problems.

This bill is very near to my heart, as I know Joshua's parents, Randy 
and Ellen Omvig, very well. It is my hope that the passage of this bill 
in the House today means that the tragic death of their son will not be 
in vain.

I would like to thank Congressman Boswell for his leadership on this 
bill, and the Omvigs for their tremendous advocacy and commitment. I 
urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill today, and I 
urge President Bush to swiftly sign this bill into law so that we can 
give all of our returning veterans--who have sacrificed so much for our 
country--the mental health care and treatment that they deserve.