---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `7636b2cf15d233cc580b11703fce5516`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. I thank the gentlewoman.

I am proud to rise today in support of the Schakowsky amendment, and 
I thank my colleague for her leadership on this most important issue.

One of the most destabilizing aspects of our military involvement in 
Iraq is our unprecedented use of unaccountable private security 
contractors. By some estimates, there are 50,000 or more private 
security personnel working in Iraq. These contractors operate largely 
outside U.S. and Iraqi law, raising animosity toward Americans in the 
field and losing the hearts and minds of the people in Iraq.

The activities of one of the most prominent contractors, Blackwater, 
highlight why this amendment and the underlying bill come not a moment 
too soon. Two weeks ago, Blackwater personnel guarding a State 
Department group were involved in a shootout that involved the deaths 
of 11 Iraqis. Blackwater has been involved in 195 escalation of force 
incidents since 2005. In 80 percent of those, Blackwater fired the 
first shots, even though they are only supposed to use defensive force.

It turns out that Blackwater has terminated 122 of their security 
employees, 53 of which were for weapons-related incidents or drug and 
alcohol violations. An incident report from another contracting firm 
described a Blackwater contractor's killing of a vice presidential 
security aide as ''murder,'' and Blackwater itself determined that he 
should be fired and his clearance should be revoked.

I could go on, but I think you get the picture. How many more 
incidents are there? How many more allegations and actions to be 
brought? Congress and the American need to know.

The MEJA Expansion Act will go a long way toward stopping the most 
egregious behavior of misconduct by these contractors and make their 
activities subject to U.S. law.

The Schakowsky amendment will strengthen this bill by making sure 
that any charges or legal actions are brought to light by DOJ. This 
amendment is vital to helping us in Congress conduct effective 
oversight to rein in contractors in Iraq. I urge my colleagues to 
support it.