---
---

# None
## `76373e7c5b90e46e47dfaed1bebc870a`
`Ms. LEE — 15 September 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the life and 
legacy of Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones.

First, I would like to offer my deepest condolences to her entire 
family, especially her son Mervyn and her sister Barbara. I want to 
also offer my condolences to the constituents of Ohio's Eleventh 
Congressional District, to all of her many friends, her colleagues--
especially in the Congressional Black Caucus--and of course to her 
staff here in Washington and in Ohio.

On August 20, 2008 the people of Cleveland, this Nation and the world 
lost a giant in the fight for equality and justice when we lost my 
beloved friend and colleague Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones.

So many know Congresswoman Tubbs Jones for her exceptional work on 
behalf of her constituents and for the many barriers she broke and 
trails she blazed as the first African American woman elected to 
Congress from Ohio, as the first African American woman to serve on the 
powerful Ways and Means Committee, and as the first to chair the House 
Ethics Committee.

Congresswoman Tubbs Jones and I came to Congress about the same time. 
We worked closely together for a decade and she was one of the most 
remarkable persons I have ever known. Whether it was standing up for 
Ohio voters and fighting for election reform or fighting to end the 
unjust war and occupation in Iraq, she always stood on the right side 
of justice.

She was a political giant, a skilled legislator, an incredible 
orator, but she was much more than that to me. She was also my sister 
in arms, my confidant, and my friend. We spent many an evening in 
Washington together throughout our decade long friendship.

From attending events together, to just grabbing dinner or an 
occasional down moment, we've spent a great deal of time throughout the 
years. We also spent many mornings together. You see Stephanie was also 
my gym partner along with Congresswoman Laura Richardson.

Stephanie and I also had the chance to travel together on several 
occasions to places like Cuba and Israel. I will always treasure those 
times and memories. It was during some of our travel together, and our 
work together for the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, that I got 
the chance to know her husband, Mervyn Jones, whom she loved dearly and 
tragically lost in October 2003.

In the wake of his death, Stephanie created a scholarship golf 
tournament in his memory, which has become a successful annual event. I 
know she would be pleased that a scholarship has been now arranged in 
her honor.

Unquestionably, her passing has left a tremendous hole in the 
Congress, in the Congressional Black Caucus, and in my heart. I will 
miss my beautiful friend and sister, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones so very 
much.

My thoughts and prayers remain with the Congresswoman's entire 
family, her son Mervyn, her sister Barbara, her staff, her friends and 
her many supporters.

May her soul rest in peace..
