# SENATE RESOLUTION 673--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT IT  VALUES THE ACTIVE PARTICIPATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA AS THE  STATE PARTNER OF THE VERMONT NATIONAL GUARD OVER THE PAST 15 YEARS
## `764c590b5d85e3b30727bae310715e62`
`Mr. LEAHY — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce and bring to the 
Senate's attention today a resolution which recognizes the value of the 
defense relationship between the National Guard of the State of Vermont 
and the military services of the Republic of Macedonia, under the 
National Guard State Partnership Program.

Time and again, the Republic of Macedonia has contributed to 
important NATO-led missions, including several hundred troops currently 
deployed to Afghanistan along with the 86th Infantry Brigade Combat 
Team of the Vermont National Guard. This relationship has yielded 
tangible benefits for both our countries, and I am proud of the role 
that Vermont has played in strengthening and broadening a growing 
international partnership.

The Vermont National Guard began its relationship with the armed 
services of the Republic of Macedonia in 1994, shortly after the 
Department of the Army created the National Guard State Partnership 
Program in 1993. Since 1995, the Republic of Macedonia and the Vermont 
Guard have participated in more than 200 joint activities, and more 
than 4000 members of the Macedonian Ministry of Defense have been 
trained by the Vermont Guard.

Macedonia has participated in NATO-led and international military 
missions in Afghanistan since August 2002, increasing its troop levels 
there in 2010. Especially given its relatively small population, 
Macedonia has made a substantial, needed and welcome contribution of 
troops to the NATO International Security Assistance Force.

Macedonia's participation in international security efforts also 
precedes the Afghanistan deployment. During the Kosovo crisis of 1999, 
territory in Macedonia served as a staging area and main corridor for 
logistical support to the NATO Kosovo Force, commonly referred to as 
''KFOR,'' and the Government of Macedonia has led the KFOR Coordination 
Centre for logistical support in Skopje since 2006. In the interest of 
underscoring a faithful partnership with the United States, the 
Government of Macedonia even deployed troops to Iraq until 2008. 
Macedonian


soldiers have been recognized by the U.S. military with more than 120 
medals.

Given all of these valuable efforts, I believe it is time the United 
States Senate offered its commendation and appreciation to the 
Government and people of the Republic of Macedonia. I hope the Senate 
will heartily concur in this much-deserved recognition.
