---
---

# COMMENDING SENATOR NORM COLEMAN
## `76534e681af173d1038206752c9b5d80`
`Mr. CORNYN — 6 August 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I join my colleagues in appreciation and 
admiration of Senator Norm Coleman. Norm has been a faithful public 
servant to the people of Minnesota, a principled leader, and a good 
friend. He made a difference here in Washington, and I feel privileged 
to have served with him in the U.S. Senate.

Norm and Laurie arrived in Washington at the same time as Sandy and 
me. We experienced many of the same challenges and adjustments that 
freshman Senators face, and we encouraged each other by facing them 
together. Norm and I found we shared a common approach to solving 
problems, and partnered to advance legislation whenever we could.

Norm said his best ideas came from the people of Minnesota, and they 
can be proud of what he achieved in Washington. Norm supported 
conservation programs to protect his State's lakes, rivers, and 
woodlands. He had a real heart for children, especially those suffering 
from cancer or waiting to be adopted into loving homes. He was a 
champion of private-sector initiatives in alternative energy, including 
clean coal, wind power, and biomass technologies. Norm exposed fraud at 
the United Nations, waste in the Medicare Program, and tax evasion by 
defense contractors. Norm voted to put John Roberts and Samuel Alito on 
the U.S. Supreme Court. Norm consistently supported our troops in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and he believed in their mission.

Some of my strongest memories of Norm were formed during our trip to 
Iraq in January of 2008, about a year after President Bush announced 
our surge of forces there. Norm had joined many Senators in supporting 
the surge, despite the political risk that support entailed. He 
understood that the strategy and leadership of GEN David Petraeus was 
America's best chance to succeed in Iraq.

Norm and I, along with Senator Johnny Isakson, visited Baghdad 
together. We had dinner with General Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan 
Crocker, and discussed how we could facilitate political reconciliation 
in Iraq. We met with General Ray Odierno to discuss the new mission of 
population security, as well as the progress they were seeing in 
reducing violence and U.S. casualties. We toured a marketplace in 
western Baghdad, where U.S. and Iraqi forces had helped bring back 
shopkeepers and their customers by driving out insurgents and 
terrorists.

During our visit, I got to see the Norm Coleman that Minnesotans know 
very well. At Maverick Security Station in Baghdad, I saw Norm honor 
troops who hailed from the Twin Cities and throughout his State. At a 
meeting with Iraqi civilian leaders, I saw him offer encouragement to 
Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds working to build a free and democratic nation 
in the heart of the Middle East. And wherever we traveled, I saw his 
easygoing manner, his wry sense of humor, and his appreciation of the 
honor bestowed on him by his fellow Minnesotans.

Norm ran a tough race for reelection last fall, a race that lasted 
far longer


than the Minnesota winter. He mounted a legal challenge based on a 
clear principle: no Minnesotan should be disenfranchised. As chairman 
of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, I was proud to support 
Norm as he pursued his case in the courts. And once the courts had 
spoken, I respected the grace with which he conceded the race, and the 
optimism he has shown for his own future, and that of our country.

Norm accomplished much in Washington, but I think he remains proudest 
of what he achieved closer to home. After Minnesota's hockey team moved 
to my home state of Texas back in 1993, Mayor Norm Coleman of St. Paul 
led the effort to bring the National Hockey League back to the Twin 
Cities. Since the first puck dropped in 2000, the Minnesota Wild have 
sold out every game they have played, and every fan owes a debt of 
thanks to Norm Coleman.

I too am thankful for Norm Coleman, because he set a good example for 
all of us. He never let public service go to his head. He always put 
his faith and family first. He fought hard to keep his seat, but never 
failed to keep his cool.

I wish Norm and Laurie the very best, as their journey together 
continues.
