---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `76538178749342d8396265ae58a36d63`
`Mr. GARY G. MILLER of California — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. GARY G. MILLER of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
opposition to this resolution condemning the President's proposal for 
achieving success in Iraq and overall victory in the global war on 
terror. We are not formulating policy today. We are not offering the 
President an alternative. All this resolution is saying is that we do 
not support our Commander in Chief, and all it is doing is emboldening 
the terrorist enemies we are facing today.

I am the first to welcome an open discussion about our involvement in 
Iraq. But, without the opportunity to consider an alternative, this is 
not open discussion. Why isn't this an open discussion? Because 
although the majority party has the authority to govern, they have no 
plan to lead.

For over a year, the majority party criticized the President for not 
making changes in his strategy in Iraq. Well, the President has made 
changes, and the majority party still is not satisfied.

We can all agree that our progress has not been as swift and decisive 
as we once hoped. We all recognize that the war in Iraq has carried on 
longer than we wanted and consumed more resources than we expected. 
However, we all knew from the beginning that it would not be easy, that 
the war against terror would not be a quick fight.

But when the going gets tough, it does not mean that we should give 
in and come home. As we cannot and must not turn back, we need a fresh 
approach to move forward. The President, along with his generals on the 
ground, have proposed a way forward. He has put forth a strategy to 
suppress the sectarian violence in Iraq and allow democratic reforms to 
take hold and economic institutions to flourish.

His plan is the only plan that provides for a way forward in Iraq. 
For us in Congress, it is not our job to become involved in tactical 
decisions that will lead to success in our mission. It is our 
responsibility to help shape the parameters of the mission and to 
conduct oversight on our progress in achieving the mission.

Republicans in Congress have proposed setting verifiable benchmarks 
with which we may measure our progress in Iraq. Such benchmarks will 
help us hold the Iraqi regime responsible for the progress made towards 
democracy, stability and peace in the country. We should be discussing 
our responsibility as oversight today, but we are not. We are left with 
debate on an empty and nonbinding resolution.

I am a proud cosponsor of Congressman Sam Johnson's bill to ensure 
that funding is not cut off or restricted for members of the Armed 
Forces deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan. We must support every effort 
in our fight against terrorists. If the majority allowed us an 
opportunity, I would have gladly supported a vote on that bill to 
reaffirm that the House will not abandon our Armed Forces under any 
circumstance.

Whether the majority would like to acknowledge it or not, the fight 
we are engaged in against terrorists in Iraq is not a new fight. It has 
been waged for a decade. We have faced terrorists in Beirut, we have 
faced terrorists in Saudi Arabia, and we have faced terrorists here on 
our own soil on September 11, 2001.

We have learned it is absolutely essential to confront terrorists 
abroad before they attack us at home. Despite what some of you may say, 
our withdrawal will not end the terrorist threat. After all, it is they 
who have declared Iraq to be the central front in the struggle.

We cannot withdraw. We cannot send our troops and other allies the 
message that we will quit when the going gets tough. Instead, we must 
move forward with the operations in Iraq, with the Iraqi people, to 
ensure that peace and stability take hold. We must change our strategy 
as the situation in the field dictates. To do otherwise would be 
foolish.

But by maintaining our commitment in Iraq, we preserve the prospects 
of peace. By withdrawing, we surrender our chances of permanent 
stability in the Middle East.

This resolution in so many words says that we cannot be successful, 
and we are bound to fail. I refuse to agree. I refuse to undercut the 
brave work of our troops by questioning their abilities and refuse to 
allow terrorists to flourish and our enemies be emboldened and thereby 
let you, the American people, down.

Our brave men and women risk their lives to provide peace and 
security here at home, and we are all proud to know such patriots. 
These young men and women, full of promise, voluntarily defend our 
Nation wherever they are called.

It reminds me of a young man in my district, and I presented him with 
his Eagle Scout awards when he was 17 years old. It was in 2003. A 
little less than 2 years later than that, in 2004, I attended the 
funeral for Lance Corporal Abraham Simpson, who made the ultimate 
sacrifice in Fallujah. He was just 19 years old.

When I went to the parents of Abraham and presented a flag that was 
flown over our great Nation after the funeral, it was honestly one of 
the most moving experiences I have had, not only in my congressional 
career but of my life. When I looked at Abraham's father in his car, I 
couldn't talk. All I could say to him was, ''I voted to send him 
there.'' Abraham's dad looked me square in the eye, with as serious a 
look as he could get, and he said, ''Congressman, it was the right 
vote.''

Like so many families across our country, the Simpson family has made 
a great sacrifice for our Nation. This resolution, however, says that 
the world, that the men and women like Lance Corporal Simpson, gave 
their lives for, was worthless, that America cannot be successful in 
the pursuit of which they nobly sacrificed themselves. I believe that 
we can. I know that if we stand firm in our principles and remain true 
to our convictions, we can succeed.

For that reason, I am going to vote ''no'' on this resolution.

I rise today in opposition to this resolution condemning the 
President's proposal for achieving success in Iraq and overall victory 
in the Global War on Terror.
















 Flawed Process


I know I join many of my colleagues in lamenting the process by which 
we are considering this resolution. We are not formulating policy; we 
are not offering the President an alternative. All this resolution is 
saying is that we do not support our Commander in Chief and all it is 
doing is emboldening our terrorist enemies.

While the valiant men and women of our Armed Forces are fighting for 
freedom abroad, the majority party has cut off democracy here in the 
House of Representatives so that we may consider a partisan resolution.

I am the first to welcome an open discussion about our involvement in 
Iraq, but without the opportunity to consider alternatives, this is not 
an open discussion. And why is there no open discussion? Because 
although the majority party has the authority to govern, they have no 
plan to lead.

For over a year, the majority party criticized the President for not 
making changes to his strategy in Iraq. Well, the President has made


changes, and the majority party is still not satisfied. Today, the 
majority party still opposes the President's strategy, but they have 
not offered any alternatives. They continue to criticize--destructively 
and not constructively.














Winning the War in Iraq


We can all agree that our progress has not been as swift or as 
decisive as we once hoped. We all recognize that the war in Iraq has 
carried on longer than we wanted and consumed more resources than we 
first thought.

However, we all knew from the beginning that it would not be easy--
that the war against terror is not something that would be a quick 
fight, but that it would take years. As history has taught us, war is 
not an easy prospect and sometimes does not go according to plan.

But when the going gets tough, this does not mean that we should give 
in and come home. That is not the American way--that is not how America 
honors its commitments and carries out its obligations. And it is not 
how America pays respect to those who have fallen in its service.

As we cannot--and must not--turn back, we need a fresh approach to 
move forward. The President, along with his generals on the ground, has 
proposed a way forward. He has put forth a strategy to suppress the 
sectarian violence in Iraq to allow democratic reforms to take hold and 
economic institutions to flourish.


His plan is the only plan that provides for a way forward in Iraq. 
While the majority party proposes to stand still and do nothing, the 
President's plan aims to allow American forces to stand down as the 
Iraqi people stand up.

For us in Congress, it is not our job to become involved in the 
tactical decisions that will lead to success in our mission. It is our 
responsibility to help shape the parameters of our mission and to 
conduct oversight on our progress in achieving the mission.

Republicans in Congress have proposed setting verifiable benchmarks 
with which we may measure our progress in Iraq. These strategic 
benchmarks, concerning the transfer of military operations to Iraqi-led 
units, the development of democratic institutions and the rule of law 
in Iraq, and increased regional cooperation and stabilization, are 
important in moving forward in Iraq. Such benchmarks will help us hold 
the Iraqi regime responsible for the progress made toward democracy, 
stability, and peace in their country.

There is, however, no attempt at oversight in this resolution. Once 
again, all the majority party is doing is complaining without providing 
an alternative. We should be discussing our responsibility at oversight 
today. But we are not. We are left with debate on this empty and 
nonbinding resolution.













 Troop Support and Funding


No matter what, we must support funding for our troops that are 
serving in harm's way--with no ifs, ands, or buts. I am a proud 
cosponsor of Congressman Sam Johnson's bill to ensure funding is not 
cut off or restricted for members of the Armed Forces deployed in Iraq 
or Afghanistan. We must support every effort in our fight against 
terrorists.

If the majority allowed us the opportunity, I would have gladly 
supported a vote on this bill to reaffirm to our troops, our 
constituents, and our enemies that the House will not abandon our Armed 
Forces--under any circumstances. Unfortunately, Republican voices were 
shut out of this process and we are left to consider this empty and 
non-binding resolution.













 Consequences of Withdrawal


All we heard on this floor for the last year was talk about 
bipartisanship and cooperation. The talk was about the need to be more 
bipartisan. Boy, we sure do have short memories. Despite the partisan 
atmosphere here in the House, the fact is that we have to be successful 
in Iraq because the consequences of our withdrawal would be disastrous.

Whether the majority would like to acknowledge it or not, the fight 
we are engaged in against terrorists in Iraq is not a new fight--it has 
been waged for decades. We have faced terrorists in Beirut. We have 
faced terrorists in Saudi Arabia. And we have faced terrorists on our 
own soil--on September 11, 2001. We have learned that it is absolutely 
essential to confront terrorists abroad before they may attack us at 
home.

If we withdraw from Iraq, we give our terrorist enemies--and they are 
our enemies--a safe haven from which to plan their attacks against us 
and our allies. Despite what some of you may say, our withdrawal will 
not end the terrorist threat. After all, it is they who have declared 
Iraq to be the central front in this struggle. If we withdraw, it will 
only encourage the terrorists. They will not rest until their agenda of 
violence and hatred is advanced worldwide. We cannot withdraw. We 
cannot send our troops and our allies the message that we will quit 
when the going gets tough.


Instead, we must move forward with operations in Iraq--with the Iraqi 
people--to ensure that peace and stability take hold. We must change 
our strategy as the situation in the field dictates. To do otherwise 
would be foolish. But by maintaining our commitment to Iraq, we 
preserve the prospects of peace. By withdrawing, we surrender our 
chances for permanent stability in the Middle East.

















 Conclusion


The United States has a long and proud history of championing 
liberty. As a Civil War history enthusiast, I am reminded of the 
parallels between this generation's fight against terrorism and the 
Civil War. Both wars brought new and grave challenges to our people and 
our way of life. Both struggles were fraught with opposition in the 
press and in Congress. But imagine what would have happened to our 
nation if President Lincoln did not continue the fight to preserve our 
union.

Just as Lincoln fought against all odds and in the face of grave 
danger to ensure freedom for all people and to preserve democracy, our 
troops are doing the same today. Just as Lincoln was successful by 
standing firm in his commitment to liberty and democracy, I strongly 
believe that we can--and will--be successful in Iraq if we are to 
ensure our freedom for the future.

This resolution, in so many words, says that we cannot be 
successful--that we are bound to fail. I refuse to agree. I refuse to 
undercut the bravel work of our troops by questioning their abilities. 
I refuse to abandon our Iraqi allies when they need us the most. And I 
refuse to allow terrorism to flourish and our enemies to be emboldened 
and thereby let you, the American people, down.

Instead, we must go forward. We must continue to support our troops 
and their important work in Iraq. We must tell them loudly and clearly 
that the American people stand with them as they fight to bring liberty 
and security to Iraq.

Most importantly, we must honor our troops and the memory of those 
who have made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom by rejecting this 
empty resolution. These brave men and women risk their lives to provide 
peace and security here at home and we are all proud to know such 
patriots.

As members of Congress, we all understand the responsibility we have 
when our nation calls our best and brightest to serve in harm's way. 
These young men and women, full of promise, voluntarily defend our 
nation wherever they are called.

One such brave young man from my district was Marine Lance Corporal 
Abraham Simpson from Chino, California. In early 2003, I presented 
Abraham with his Eagle Scout award to recognize his achievement of the 
Boy Scouts' highest rank. A little less than two years later, in 
November 2004, Lance Corporal Simpson made the ultimate sacrifice 
during the Battle of Fallujah. He was just 19 years old.

When I presented his parents with a flag flown over the Capitol of 
this great Nation, it was one of the most moving moments not only of my 
congressional career, but of my life. All I could say to Abraham's 
father was, ''I voted to send him there.'' He looked me square in the 
eyes and he said, ''Congressman, it was the right vote.''

To honor his cousin's sacrifice, Marine Sergeant Jonathan Simpson, 
who had originally joined the Marines as a flight navigator, asked to 
be transferred so he could fight on the front lines. Jonathan Simpson 
was killed during combat operations in Iraq in October 2006.

Abraham and Jonathan Simpson, true American heroes, gave their lives 
in service to this Nation, and for that--and for all of our fallen 
heroes--I will always be humbled and grateful. Like so many other 
families across our country, the Simpson family has made a great 
sacrifice for our Nation, our ideals, and our freedom.

This resolution, however, says to the world that men and women like 
Lance Corporal Simpson and Sergeant Simpson gave their lives for 
naught--that America cannot be successful in the pursuit for which they 
nobly sacrificed. I believe we can. I know if we stand firm in our 
principles and remain true to our convictions we can succeed.

For this reason, I wholeheartedly oppose this empty resolution and 
strongly urge my colleagues to do the same.

