---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007--
## `76596019956b51c750d058a4270a4268`
`Mr. LOTT — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I have not spoken on this energy 
legislation. There is no question in my mind that we need a national 
energy policy. I do not think this bill, in its current form, does what 
we need to do. I have always believed what we need to do in America is 
produce more energy here at home. More supply--that is the answer--not 
try to do with less, try to shrink what we have in terms of energy or 
conserve ourselves into an energy policy. I want more. This is America.

We can produce more of everything. More oil? Yes. More natural gas? 
Absolutely, and do a lot of innovative things with it. More coal? I am 
for clean coal technology. I am for changing coal to liquids. I am for 
doing whatever we can with coal. I am for hydro. We should have more 
hydroplants, but we have people who have reservations about that. It 
has environmental or conservation problems. And more nuclear. It is 
clean. It is safe. But what are we doing to get more of them on line? 
Nothing.

This bill has turned out to be really about alternative fuels, 
conservation, and green policies.

Now, for years, I have said I do not want any of that. I want 
production. By the way, in my State, we can do it. We can have more of 
everything: oil, gas, coal to liquid, lignite coal, ethanol. We are 
trying to do it all. We are going to be energy independent. In fact, we 
are going to wield our power to other parts of the country. So that is 
what I wanted, but I am over that. I want a national energy policy. I 
am prepared to accept alternative fuels, some renewables if they make 
sense, if they are justified in the market but not paid for by 
outrageous tax credits that don't produce anything. I am for 
conservation. We should encourage that. Get different light fixtures, 
look at the utilities we have in our houses, the appliances, are they 
using too much electricity; insulation, I am for all of that.


So let's have the grand compromise on energy. Let's do it all. This 
bill doesn't do it. To my colleagues, I want to say I believe America 
is in great danger because of our inability to come together and do it 
all.

I was in Russia 3 or 4 weeks ago. I had a chance to see their 
transmission network of gas and to look at their fields in Siberia, the 
oil and natural gas. I met with the leadership of Gazprom, the Russian 
Government-controlled energy company. It was scary. I have no doubt in 
my mind they intend to use gas as a weapon. They are going to be 
shipping natural gas that provides the power to all of Europe, Eastern 
Europe, Western Europe, all the way to Ireland. By the way, if they 
don't get what they want, they will cut it off.

Here we are in America. We are dependent for our energy sources, 80 
percent on foreign oil. Is that good? No, that is bad. Look at whom we 
are depending on: Russia, Iraq, Iran, Nigeria, Venezuela, and then some 
who I guess are more stable for now: Saudi Arabia, Kuwait. Is that what 
we want? No, we don't want that. This is a dangerous situation.

So we should encourage and facilitate the whole package. Flexible 
fuels, I am for that. We should try to see what we can do with 
renewables. I don't believe for a minute we are going to get 15 percent 
of our energy needs from wind. Come on now. Wind and solar. There are 
people who think we are going to heat, power, and supply all our energy 
needs in the future from wind and solar. For heaven's sake, get real. 
We have already sunk billions of dollars into some of these ideas that 
might work or might not. I am willing to try them. I will buy the deal, 
but


this is not the deal. This is another tax increase: $28.6 billion. I 
thought it would be $15 billion.

By the way, let me make it clear. There is some good stuff in here. 
Some of it I supported, some of it I voted for. But overall, what we 
have is an energy bill that came out of the Energy Committee that now 
doesn't amount to very much; it is all about renewables and green 
policy. It is not going to produce another drop of oil, 1 cubic foot of 
natural gas. In fact, now, we are going to discourage oil and gas 
exploration in the Gulf of Mexico.

By the way, I should be able to talk about this because this is in my 
neck of the woods. I have lived in the shadow of oil and gas rigs for 
years in the gulf. The best fishing in the gulf is around the rigs. We 
have oil and gas out there. Our policy in America is we don't want to 
drill where it is. We don't want to drill in the gulf, we don't want to 
drill on the west coast, we don't want to drill on the east coast, we 
don't want to drill in ANWR. I have a novel idea of where we ought to 
drill: Drill where it is, and do it safely. We can do that. Finally, 
after a lot of huffing and puffing and stroking and scratching last 
year, we finally said: Yes, we are going to have more oil and gas 
exploration in the Gulf of Mexico. It is going to be in a defined area. 
It is not going to be close to the shore, which I think it should be, 
much closer to the Florida coast, for instance--and my coast, too, for 
that matter--but we did it for control in a responsible, acceptable 
way. The States, by the way, are going to get some royalties out of it 
for the first time ever, or for the first time in many years. We came 
up with a good deal.

Now, in this bill, we are going to go back, and we are going to levy 
a 13-percent tax on oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico that 
will cost $10.6 billion on the oil companies. Now, look, I am not going 
to cry any tears for oil companies. I have a populist streak in me. I 
don't like gasoline prices. But, buddy, let me tell you, this bill is 
not going to reduce anybody's gasoline prices. This bill is not a 
national energy policy.

This bill will lead to less American production in the critical areas 
where we could do something quickly. By the way, we are going to tax 
them. Are we never going to learn when you tax something, you get less? 
If you get less, what do you think it is going to do to the price of 
gasoline? By the way, we are going to ride these cats--these 
companies--offshore. They are not going to put up with all these taxes. 
They are going to go get it somewhere else. They can do business 
internationally. The biggest company in the world, ExxonMobil--they are 
not the biggest company in terms of oil or gasoline in America, no; 
there are other companies that fit that role--much of their business is 
overseas.

So there is about $21 billion more on the oil companies, and I think 
it is being done in the wrong way. But we can't come out and talk about 
how we are going to make such great changes and that we are going to do 
something about energy prices and the price of gasoline, when the 
reverse is true. This bill would say that--exactly, it would 
effectively strike all the tax increases unless and until such time as 
the Energy Secretary can certify they will not result in increased gas 
prices or increased dependence on foreign sources of energy.

You are right, you know, they would not be able to certify that. This 
would not be good for the country.

Yes, again, I wish to say the Wyden amendment is in there. I support 
it. I voted against the amendment awhile ago that Senator Kyl had. I am 
not pure either. I am over trying to be pure. But I do expect us to not 
do the wrong things on energy policy--don't do the bad things, even if 
we can't do the right things.

I am extremely upset about what we have come up with out of the 
Finance Committee and on the energy package as a whole. This is not 
going to do the job. It is not going to become law.

So here again, the Senate is spinning its wheels. Yes, well, we are 
making a statement. Maybe we will feel better. But in terms of 
addressing an energy policy, this will not do it.

I yield the floor. Thank you for the extra time.