---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `765f61b5c4d7e12096730efe56173a32`
`Mr. AKAKA — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I am pleased to discuss funding for VA in 
the budget resolution for fiscal year 2009. Chairman Conrad and his 
colleagues on the Budget Committee have done impressive work on this 
resolution.

They have demonstrated sound judgment in their funding recommendation 
to address the needs of our country.

Service members returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, like those who 
returned from Vietnam, Korea, World War II and all previous wars, bear 
the effects of their service.

They show us that the costs of war do not end on the battlefield. In 
crafting this budget, we are in a position to ensure that care for 
returning service members, of every war, is a top priority.

The Department of Veterans Affairs provides superior health care to 
millions of veterans every year.

It is widely regarded as one of the top health care systems in 
America. Today, VA faces a growing wave of new demands--veterans of 
past wars are aging and making greater use of the system, and younger 
veterans of the current conflicts require a new range of services from 
VA.

Congress must provide the resources for VA to meet all of these 
demands.

This budget resolution acknowledges the challenges facing VA. It 
meets our responsibility of caring for our Nation's service members and 
veterans.



In recent years, VA and Congress have made a tremendous investment in 
mental health services. I am pleased that this budget reflects an 
ongoing commitment to better serve the needs of veterans with mental 
health concerns.

Madam President, I remind my colleagues that battle wounds frequently 
manifest themselves as invisible wounds. These wounds can be just as 
devastating as physical wounds. Indeed, many mental health disorders, 
including substance use disorder and PTSD, have both physical and 
mental manifestations.

They impact the veteran's relationships and his or her ability to 
work and to interact in society. The effects of many mental health 
disorders can be limited or even avoided if they are caught and treated 
promptly, before long-term disabilities develop.

This budget resolution provides the funds to continue the essential 
task of providing timely access to mental health care for all veterans.

Families play a critical role in the well-being of veterans. As 
chairman of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I held a hearing 
yesterday on the role of families in veterans' lives, and on the 
support VA and DoD provides them.

Families are often the primary caregivers for injured veterans, and 
provide essential assistance in recovery and rehabilitation through 
reintegration into civilian life. The degree of support provided by 
family members is directly related to a veteran's ability to deal 
effectively with readjustment and mental health concerns.

Providing support to veterans' families is in VA's vital interest.

One of the harshest realities of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is 
the number of soldiers who have sustained complex and multiple injuries 
in combat.

Significant improvements in battlefield medicine have enabled many 
seriously wounded servicemembers to survive their injuries. These men 
and women are coming home with extraordinarily complex health care 
needs.

VA and Congress have focused on addressing the needs of these 
veterans. There have been improvements in screening and care for 
service members with traumatic brain injury, but much remains to be 
done.

In addition, Congress directed VA to establish specialized centers 
for rehabilitative care in response to the challenging medical and 
rehabilitative needs of veterans with multiple and complex injuries.

VA's four lead polytrauma rehabilitation centers are essential to 
meeting the needs of the most severely injured veterans and their 
families.

As we work to meet the needs of all returning servicemembers, we must 
pay close attention to the full range of war wounds--from eye trauma 
and damage to servicemembers' hearing, to PTSD and depression, to burn 
injuries.

Another important tool which VA is still developing is comprehensive 
health screening for returning servicemembers. This is absolutely 
essential. Without effective screening for mental health disorders, 
traumatic brain injury, hearing and vision loss and other injuries or 
disorders, VA will miss opportunities to help veterans in need of 
services.

Further, I believe comprehensive health screening before deployment 
is essential to help with the evaluation and understanding of the 
effects of combat on servicemembers. As chairman of the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs, I have worked to ensure that all veterans receive 
appropriate health screenings. I will continue to advocate for these 
screenings.

On the benefits side of the ledger, in the last year, Congress has 
provided a significant amount of funding to VA for much-needed staffing 
to adjudicate claims. Our Nation's veterans deserve nothing less than 
having their claims rated accurately and in a reasonable period of 
time. Now, the American people, especially veterans, will expect to see 
a decreasing backlog and increased timeliness and quality.

I pledge my continuing support to get veterans the benefits they need 
in an appropriate amount of time. Congress must now assure that VA has 
sufficient funding for technology and training initiatives to aid in 
its endeavor to reduce the backlog of claims. This budget resolution is 
certainly a step in the right direction.

The entitlement funding provided to veterans in this budget 
resolution reflects the Nation's continuing responsibility to care for 
he who has borne the battle, long after the last shots of war have been 
fired. Indeed, I view funding for veterans' entitlements as a 
continuing cost of war.

The administration's VA budget request proposed severe cuts to many 
essential programs and accounts. Research, the inspector general, the 
National Cemetery Administration, and grants for State home 
construction would all be unnecessarily cut.

I am particularly troubled by the proposed cuts of nearly 50 percent 
to the VA construction accounts. Over the past year, internal reviews 
identified widespread maintenance concerns, in addition to already 
planned construction projects. I find it unconscionable that in the 
face of the pressing demands across the country, the President would 
suggest such cuts. The budget proposal advanced by Chairman Conrad and 
his colleagues rectifies these mistakes in the President's request, and 
I appreciate their foresight on these issues.

I am pleased with the investment in veterans programs that is made in 
this budget resolution. I again commend Chairman Conrad and the Budget 
Committee for their thoughtful and responsible work. Care for our 
Nation's veterans is truly a cost of war, and it is our responsibility 
to meet their needs.

I urge my colleagues to support swift passage of the resolution 
before us.

I thank you, Madam President.