---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD AS THE HONORED SERVICE AT  MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY AT EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY
## `76752ad553f44b216d167c6f209d4cb9`
`Mr. BUTTERFIELD — 2 October 2008`

---


Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speaker, I rise today before you to pay 
tribute to the United States Coast Guard, who will be the honored 
service on October 18th, 2008, during Military Appreciation Day at East 
Carolina University's home football game against Memphis. East Carolina 
University, which is in my district, has long demonstrated an 
appreciation for the Armed Services and the incredible sacrifices their 
members make on a daily basis.

The United States Coast Guard operates several commands in Elizabeth 
City, North Carolina, which I have the privilege of representing. Among 
these commands is the National Strike Force Coordination Center 
(NSFCC), which is responsible for responding to chemical, biological, 
and radiological events, National Security Events, and Weapons of Mass 
Destruction events. The NSFCC is the command component of three 
subordinate teams and oversees operations of the Atlantic Strike Team, 
Gulf Strike Team, and Pacific Strike Team.

Coast Guard Air Station Elizabeth City is an Air Search and Rescue, 
Law Enforcement, Port and Waterway Patrols, and Homeland Security 
component. Air Station Elizabeth City also supports the Coast Guard 
Atlantic Area, and International Ice Patrol. Support Center Elizabeth 
City is responsible for providing logistical support for the tenant 
commands located on the Coast Guard base in Elizabeth City.

Coast Guard Station Elizabeth City deals with surface response for 
Search and Rescue, Law Enforcement, Port and Waterways Patrols, and 
Homeland Security. The Aviation Repair and Supply Center (AR&SC) is 
responsible for maintaining the parts and supply inventory, technical 
data and conducting repairs for Coast Guard aviation assets. The 
Aviation Technical Training Center (ATTC) is responsible for training 
mechanical and electrical aviation engineers and airmen.

During the ECU game, Rear Admiral Ronald Hewitt, Commander of 
Maintenance and Logistics Command Atlantic Area, will serve as the 
senior Coast Guard representative. Petty Officer Joseph Ruggiero will 
assist with the coin toss. Petty Officer Ruggiero received the Bronze 
Star Medal and Purple Heart Medal for his selfless service in support 
of Operation Iraqi Freedom. A Coast Guard fly-over will precede the 
action on the field, and the Coast Guard will display several small 
boats, a dive locker, and information tables to represent various 
service missions.

Madam Speaker, it is with tremendous pride that I ask my colleagues 
to join me today in paying tribute to all of our armed services, but 
especially the United States Coast Guard for their continued support 
and vigilance in defense of our Nation.
