# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `7677d13bda855230c313bb06b99e121c`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. I thank Senators Levin and Warner for their leadership on 
the Defense authorization bill and the Armed Services Committee which 
brings to us the Defense authorization bill. They held a hearing on the 
subject of Iraq contracting at one point in their committee, and I went 
to testify before that hearing. It is interesting that at that hearing 
my testimony about a range of issues with respect to subcontractors 
doing contracting in Iraq was contradicted by an Army general. That 
Army general is now under investigation because it is anticipated that 
Army general did not provide truthful testimony to the committee. One 
of the things I wanted to talk about today was about the issue of 
profound waste of money with respect to Iraq contracting. But then I 
want to talk about how much money we have committed and how much we 
have appropriated and, for that matter, authorized to Iraq at a time 
when the special inspector general for Iraq tells us that that country 
is pumping out about 2 million barrels of oil a day, selling it on the 
open market, amassing substantial cash for their own country, and the 
Iraqi treasury is now expected to have a surplus of around $50 billion. 
The Government of Iraq is accumulating a surplus of about $50 billion 
currently, and it is estimated to be $79, perhaps $79 billion by the 
end of the year.

Contrast that with this country. Iraq is pumping oil, 2 million 
barrels a day, selling oil. We go up to the gas pump and put gas in our 
cars and pay money that ends up in Iraqi banks. In fact, that Iraqi 
money is in the Federal Reserve Bank in the United States. Meanwhile, 
Americans are paying high prices for oil, part of which ends up in 
Iraqi coffers, and Iraq has about $50 billion, while we are up to our 
neck in debt. It is unbelievable. We have a fiscal policy that is 
wildly out of control. We are going to borrow $600 to $700 billion this 
year. We are spending money for reconstruction in Iraq.

Let me show a picture of something called the Whale. The Whale is a 
facility that has been built in Iraq, and it is a facility called the 
Kahn Bani Sa'ad prison. If we take a look at this picture, we see 
bricks falling all over, an unbelievable mess. This doesn't look like a 
building. It looks like a construction site that is under substantial 
disrepair.

Let me tell the story about the Kahn Bani Sa'ad prison. Our 
Government told them that they had to build this prison. We are going 
to build this with American money. The Iraqi said: We don't need this 
prison. We won't use this prison. If you are going to build it, it is 
built in the wrong location, but we don't want this built.

The American Government said: We are going to build this prison. They 
contracted with Parsons Corporation for $30 million. My understanding 
is that after spending $30 million, they actually got rid of that 
contractor and brought another contractor in and spent another $10 
million. Here it sits. They call it the Whale. It sits on the sands of 
Iraq, paid for with American taxpayer money, never used, will never be 
used. It is shoddy construction,


bricks are falling apart. It is unbelievable. It is a hood ornament on 
incompetence in my judgment, the Whale.

How much more of this should we do? I have spent a career on the 
Senate floor talking about how miserable the oversight has been with 
respect to these contractors. Here is one small but illustrative 
example. A contractor was supposed to be buying towels for the troops, 
little hand towels, Kellogg, Brown & Root, a subsidiary of Halliburton, 
buying hand towels for the troops. Henry Bunting, a purchasing 
employee, is told: Buy hand towels for the Army. So he orders some 
white hand towels.

His supervisor said: You cannot do that. You have to buy hand towels 
with ''KBR'' embroidered on them, the name of the company.

He said: That will triple or quadruple the price of these towels.

His supervisor said: That doesn't matter. This is a cost-plus 
contract. The taxpayers will pay for that.

So the towels ordered for American troops were towels with ''KBR'' 
embroidered on them--Kellogg Brown & Root--at triple or quadruple the 
cost to the American taxpayer.

There were $85,000 trucks left behind to be torched--brandnew $85,000 
trucks left beside the road in Iraq to be torched--because they had a 
flat tire, they did not have a wrench to fix it, or had a plugged fuel 
pump and they did not have the tools to fix it. These weren't dangerous 
areas where there was a concern about being attacked. These were 
pacified areas where a repair could have been made. But the decision 
was to just have the truck torched, because taxpayers could just buy 
new ones.

You think these are stories that are wild? No. That is just the 
beginning. I have held 17 hearings on it.

I say to Senator Warner, he will recall the day I came to the 
committee and testified about this issue. He will recall a General 
Johnson who testified just after me and said: Senator Dorgan is wrong 
about this. Then he told you what he thought the truth was. It turns 
out he deceived the committee.

That General Johnson is now under investigation by the Secretary of 
Defense. I asked the Inspector General to look into the testimony--my 
testimony and his. Several weeks before General Johnson came before the 
Armed Services Committee, the Inspector General had furnished a report, 
an interim report, to the military saying exactly the opposite of what 
General Johnson told the Armed Services Committee.

I appreciate the fact that Senator Warner held that hearing, and I 
also appreciate the fact that Secretary Gates is now investigating 
because, if anything, we desperately need people who come to this 
Congress to testify to tell the truth and not deceive the Congress. 
That particular issue was a water issue that was providing water--this 
was Halliburton and Kellogg Brown & Root providing water--to the 
military bases in Iraq. The allegation has been since sustained, by the 
way, by the inspector general's report.