---
---

# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `767ea0cc0a0c98149c93cd7dda253281`
`Mr. HOYER — 6 December 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for that question. As the gentleman 
knows, and I've been involved in this business for a long time, four 
decades about, and whether it was in the State Senate, which had a 
constitutional ending date, or in the House of Representatives, it's 
very difficult to predict the last days of a session.

Now, I will tell you that the Speaker and I are working around the 
clock, almost literally, to ensure that we can adjourn this first 
session of the Congress of the United States on the 14th. We had hoped 
the 13th, but we're letting Members know that the 14th, that's only 4 
days from now. We've just gone through some pretty heavy lifting in 
terms of the appropriation bills, in terms of the AMT, in terms of 
SCHIP, in terms of Iraq and in terms of other matters that we need to 
address before we leave here. But we think we can do it, and it is our 
intention to do it.

But, obviously, there are things that are pending that we cannot 
leave without doing, so that if we cannot get that done in that time 
frame, we will have to see where we go from there.

But I want to make it very, very clear to everybody that the Speaker, 
Senator Reid, and I have talked; and we are all very focused on the 
14th being the day that we adjourn. The following week is the week 
before Christmas. We believe that individuals need to be home. I need 
to do shopping and decorating because all my family's coming to my 
house from some parts of the country, so I need to be home. And I'm 
sure every other Member shares that view.

So all I can tell my friend, and he knows this as well as I do, that 
the unpredictability of the next 4 legislative days is such that I 
can't make any guarantees, other than we are doing everything we can to 
get the business that we've just discussed done. We may have some very 
late nights on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday; but we are hopeful 
that we will get this done and not have to ask Members to come back the 
week before Christmas.