---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7680c705f63dd08ff3f104c4c6d995dc`
`Mr. COBLE — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. COBLE. I thank the distinguished gentleman from North Carolina.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose deploying 20,000 additional troops to Iraq. Oh, 
if you oppose the surge, the troops will be demoralized, we are told. 
The five ''d'' words will be prominently exposed this week as my friend 
just mentioned: debate, dialogue, discipline, deliberation, and 
democracy.

The troop morale will be adversely affected because we are involved 
with these disciplines? I think not. I believe they would more readily 
be demoralized if we were willy-nilly rubber-stamping every issue 
confronting us.

I approved of removing Saddam Hussein because it is my belief, and I 
continue to believe it is the general consensus of this Congress, that 
Saddam was indeed an international terrorist. I regret that we were 
inept in formulating a post-entry strategy. I am not convinced that any 
particular strategy was ever in place.

It is unfortunate and, yes, unfair, that many people, strike that, 
some people, perhaps many people, are blaming President Bush, the 
United States, Great Britain, Australia, and our other allies for the 
civil unrest in Iraq. Saddam was removed and a free election was 
conducted, so the Iraqi people were given a choice between freedom and 
civil war. Unfortunately, they chose the latter. They rejected freedom 
and chose civil war. And the longer we maintain a presence there, the 
more they will rely upon us. The time has come, in my opinion, for the 
baton to be handed to the Iraqis.

Finally, permit me to discuss cutting and running. Oh, you cannot 
leave; you will be accused of cutting and running, we are told. If we 
had removed Saddam, which most Iraqis wanted, and then withdrew 4 or 5 
weeks later, or even 4 or 5 months later, that would have constituted 
cutting and running. But we have been there for years, Mr. Speaker. 
Over 3,100 of our troops have given the ultimate sacrifice, in excess 
of 25,000 have suffered injuries, many permanent disabling injuries. 
This is sacrifice, not cutting and running. And I insist that we do not 
maintain an eternal presence in Iraq if for no other reason than the 
cost to the taxpayers, which has been astronomically unbelievable.

In excess of 2 years, Mr. Speaker, I have stressed the importance of 
retaining troop withdrawal as a viable option. Early on, virtually no 
one was even remotely considering withdrawal. I believe withdrawal is 
not unsound for the reasons I have previously cited.

Some Americans and perhaps some in this body oppose the Iraqi 
operation because they dislike President Bush. I, however, do not march 
to that drum. I am personally very high on President Bush. But on the 
matter of troop escalation, I am not in agreement.

The noted British statesman Edmund Burke, while addressing Solicitors 
at Bristol many years ago said, ''As your representative, I owe you my 
industry, but I also owe you my judgment. And if I sacrifice my 
judgment for your opinion,'' he said, ''I have not served you well.''

Some of my constituents will embrace my vote as demonstrating sound 
judgment. Others will likely reject my vote as a result of flawed 
judgment.

Not only do I owe my best judgment to my constituents, but to our 
troops as well, who we continue to remember in our thoughts and 
prayers.

I thank the Speaker and I thank the distinguished gentleman from 
North Carolina.