---
---

# EXPRESSING SYMPATHY FOR THE PEOPLE OF POLAND
## `768327a1c7ce1009eb4f4c4eec4566e7`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 14 April 2010`

---


Mr. JOHANNS. Mr. President, let me start my comments today by 
thanking the senior Senator from Illinois. It has been an honor to join 
with him on this important resolution.

I rise today to pay my respects to the people of Poland, to 
acknowledge the great work of their President, President Lech 
Kaczynski, to acknowledge the death of his wife and 94 other Poles who 
died in the plane crash in western Russia this last Saturday, April 10.

They were traveling to Katyn, Russia for a memorial service to mark 
the 70th anniversary of the Soviet killing of more than 20,000 Polish 
officers in 1940.

Among the Polish leaders killed in the plane crash last Saturday were 
dozens of members of Parliament, revolutionary heroes from 1989, senior 
military commanders, and the president of the national bank. This is a 
terrible, heartbreaking loss, not just for Poland but for its close 
friend and ally, the United States.

The tight bond that has been forged between Poland and this country 
has been one of the most welcome results of the end of the Cold War. 
Since the fall of communism, in which the Polish Solidarity movement 
played a major role, Poland has led the way in building a pro-United 
States free market democracy. Poland's access to NATO in 1999 has led 
to invaluable Polish contributions to peace and stability around our 
world. Polish soldiers have fought side by side with Americans in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, including in key coalition leadership positions. We 
have suffered together when our troops took casualties, and today we 
grieve together.

The foundation of our close partnership was laid by many Polish 
immigrants to America. Today, over 9 million Americans of Polish 
descent reside in the United States, including the State of Nebraska. I 
am very proud to be one of them. My grandparents immigrated here from 
Poland many decades ago.

The Polish are an important part of this great country and have been 
since the earliest days of our Nation when they helped settle 
Jamestown, VA. I am very pleased to introduce this resolution along 
with the senior Senator from Illinois. The senior Senator may not know 
this, but he represents some of my relatives in Chicago, and represents 
them well. I joined with him and all of our colleagues in a moment of 
silence, as we have done today. I want to pay our respects to the 
Poles, both in this part of the country and across this great Nation, 
as well as in Poland. I also acknowledge the great contributions they 
have made to our country.

I yield the floor.