# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `768d0dd6f3037e89727dd64c3ec59ea5`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 15 November 2007`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
4156, the ''Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations 
Act,'' and I want to commend Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic 
leadership for bringing this bill to the Floor today.

The American people want a new direction in Iraq. By every measure, 
this war has cost Americans far too much--whether it's lives lost, 
dollars spent, or our reputation tarnished around the world.

H.R. 4156 would provide critical funding for the troops while also 
requiring that troops begin to redeploy from Iraq within 30 days of 
enactment with a goal of completion by December 15, 2008. The 
legislation would ensure that troops are not deployed to Iraq unless 
they have been fully trained and equipped. H.R. 4156 also would extend 
to all U.S. Government agencies and personnel the current prohibitions 
contained in the Army Field Manual against torture.

Just this week the Joint Economic Committee, of which I am a vice 
chair, released a study to examine the broader impact of the war on the 
American economy. So far the full economic costs of the Iraq war are 
about double the immense Federal budget costs that have been reported 
to the American people.

The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that Federal spending 
on the war could reach $2.4 trillion by 2017. Our JEC report finds that 
when you add in the ''hidden costs'' of the war, the total economic 
costs will rise by over $1 trillion to $3.5 trillion. The report 
reveals how we are all paying for this war one way or another--whether 
it's higher prices at the pump, lost business investment, rising 
interest payments on the debt, or fixing all the broken bodies and our 
stretched military.

The President has asked Congress for an additional $200 billion for 
Iraq, bringing the total request to $607 billion in direct expenditures 
since the start of the war. This is well over 10 times more than the 
$50 to $60 billion cost estimated by the Administration prior to the 
start of the war, with no end in sight from this President.

This legislation sends the President an important message: start 
bringing our troops home, now.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
