---
---

# None
## `76909fa7121dc4fefe4ffe93d10be759`
`Mr. POE — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, who do we fight against? We have been at war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan for years. We heard that we are fighting a war 
on terror. But what does that mean? Who are the people at war with 
America?

 Now, after all this time, our government has decided we must have a 
politically correct name for our enemy. No longer can we use the term 
''Jihadist,'' the primary meaning being a holy war to subject the world 
to Islam. After all, using that term might hurt our enemies' feelings.

 And certainly the most accurate term, ''Islamo-Fascists,'' is 
strictly taboo because it might further anger our enemies by 
insinuating they are a bit radical when they murder in the name of 
religion.

 So the government insists that we call the bad guys ''extremists'' 
or ''terrorists.'' The term terrorist is so general it could cover a 
multitude of individuals. My neighbor sometimes calls my Dalmatians 
''terrorists''. Does that mean our country is at war with my dogs? I 
really hope not. The term ''extremists'' could be applied to Global 
Warming Advocates, Health enthusiasts, NASCAR fanatics or anyone with 
strong opinions. Are we fighting all these people?

 Those terms: extremists and terrorists are so vague they don't 
indicate the war against us is waged in the name of a radical Muslim 
religious doctrine. But isn't that the reason for this war?

 The term ''Jihadist'' is not a reflection on all Muslims. After all, 
many Muslims are literally fighting these radical ideas.

 In a war, we must specifically define our enemy. Otherwise, we don't 
know who they are or why they fight.

 And that's just the way it is.
