# STUDENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE DURING A WAR OR OTHER MILITARY OPERATION
## `76a528eeeb413d93c75d23158beac37c`
`Mr. SESTAK — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3625, an act 
to permanently extend waiver authority to the Secretary of Education 
with respect to enrollment in post-secondary institutions and student 
financial assistance during a period of combat or national emergency.

This legislation recognizes the unique and unexpected situations that 
military personnel face when called to active duty to serve our 
country, as well as situations that many face in times of a national 
emergency, even here at home.

The intent of this legislation is simple: to provide the Secretary of 
Education with the permanent authority to ensure that active duty 
military personnel are not financially harmed by the service that they 
perform.

The Secretary is thereby granted the authority to take necessary 
actions which include, first, protecting borrowers from further 
financial difficulty when they are called to serve. This will ensure 
that when a student withdraws from college because of his or her status 
as an individual called up for service, Guard, Reserve or active, or, 
if they are affected by a disaster, that the requirement that grant 
overpayments be repaid would be waived, and collection activities on a 
defaulted education loan may be halted for the time period during which 
a borrower is serving.

Second, minimizing administrative requirements without impacting the 
integrity of the Federal Student Aid program. So, for instance, certain 
requests that previously required written documentation may now be made 
orally by an affected individual or member of the borrower's family 
when that member may actually be, while applying for school, actually 
in conflict overseas.

Third, adjusting the calculation used to determine students' 
eligibility for aid for those whose financial circumstances change 
because the student or his or her parents are called to serve, such as 
when a parent was about to give a large contribution to the son's 
education, is suddenly called up in the National Guard, and is unable 
to make that commitment.

This bill, therefore, encourages financial aid administrators to 
choose to use professional judgment as the proper method of determining 
financial need that is most beneficial to an affected individual and to 
his or her family; for instance, taking into account the most favorable 
tax period for the student's or the parents' recording period in order 
to be assessed on that year's tax recording period, a grant or aid.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague Mr. Kline for his leadership on 
this legislation in past Congresses and for the flexibility that our 
men and women in the service have received because of you. These 
provisions have been critical to our men and women serving in Iraq, 
Afghanistan and elsewhere. In addition, these provisions will provide 
critical relief to those who answer the call to serve in the future, 
including responding to national emergencies and natural disasters.

I am also pleased with the additional relief provided to men and 
women in uniform in the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, which is 
currently waiting for the President's signature. That piece of 
legislation included necessary provisions that recognize military 
service by allowing those called to service to serve on active duty, 
including National Guard and Reservists, to defer payments on their 
student loans not only while serving but for a period of time after 
leaving active duty.

Because of unforeseen national emergencies, such as Hurricane 
Katrina, as well as our continued military engagement overseas, it is 
important that we pass the legislation before us and allow the 
Secretary of Education to continue providing this needed relief. 
Without prompt passage of H.R. 3625, the Secretary's authority to 
provide this flexibility will expire at the end of this week. It is 
critical not only for those currently receiving relief from unnecessary 
financial burden while sacrificing for our country, but also for those 
who will serve our country in the future, that these provisions be made 
permanent.

I urge my colleagues to pass the resolution.



Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.