# HONORING WOMEN IN THE ARMED FORCES AND FEMALE VETERANS
## `76ab20a838e6c3136314c376d0131186`
`Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 1054, which honors 
the service and achievements of women in the Armed Forces and female 
veterans.

Mr. Speaker, throughout this great Nation's history, women have 
answered the call without hesitation to defend our democracy and 
freedom. Since the early days when we fought to gain our independence, 
women have served with distinction in every one of our Nation's 
conflicts. Before women were formally allowed to serve in our military, 
they served on battlefields as nurses, water bearers, cooks and 
saboteurs.

Frustrated by the gender restrictions of the day but fueled by ardent 
patriotism, many women found more unorthodox ways to serve. Often 
disguising themselves as young men, they joined the military and fought 
steadfastly alongside their brothers in arms.

Mr. Speaker, since 1901 when the Army Nurse Corps was established, 
formally granting women rank and military status, hundreds of thousands 
of women have served with honor in the Armed Forces. They have never 
shrunk from the tough jobs or hesitated to go in harm's way: 34,000 
women served in World War I; 400,000 in World War II; 120,000 in Korea; 
7,000 in Vietnam; and over 41,000 served in the first Gulf War.

Today, Mr. Speaker, over 350,000 women are serving in our Armed 
Forces. Over 190,000 have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan to help 
rid the world of tyranny and terrorism. They serve on land, at sea and 
in the air, doing dangerous jobs such as pilots, military police and 
convoy truck drivers.

Mr. Speaker, these women, just like the men in our Armed Forces, are 
volunteers. They have always been volunteers. They have chosen to 
serve, chosen to make the sacrifices that are inherent in military 
service. They endure long hours, long separations from their loved ones 
and the hardships and horrors of combat. And as so many who have served 
before them, these women have been wounded, imprisoned and have paid 
the ultimate price for their devotion and duty to this great country.

It is without question that our military forces are unsurpassed. It 
is also undeniable that women have played a significant role in 
developing the extraordinarily capable military we are so proud of 
today. Military women have been pioneers in computer science, space and 
undersea exploration and medicine. Through their accomplishments 
America has made great strides in technology, mathematics and 
engineering.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the gentlelady from California for 
introducing this resolution to honor America's extraordinary military 
women and veterans. I join her and all of my colleagues to celebrate 
the courageous women of our Armed Forces who serve today and who have 
served in the past. Their indomitable spirit and powerful sense of 
patriotism guarantee our freedom now and for generations to come.

I, therefore, strongly urge all Members to support this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.