# RECOGNITION OF MT. DIABLO PEACE AND JUSTICE CENTER 40TH ANNIVERSARY
## `76af9013be9d16148d40e62810af94f4`
`Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize 
the Mt. Diablo Peace & Justice Center, an invaluable institution in the 
San Francisco Bay Area that will be celebrating its 40th Anniversary on 
October 19, 2009.

Founded in 1969 by the late Andy Baltzo, the Mount Diablo Peace and 
Justice Center was initially known to most residents of Contra Costa 
County as simply, ''The Peace Center.'' Its goal was to provide 
residents of the East Bay with a voice against the escalating war in 
Vietnam as well as a focal point for issues of social justice.

After our troops returned from Southeast Asia, members of the Peace 
Center recognized that the quest for peace and justice is never ending. 
The Center turned its attention to issues of nuclear arms reduction, 
military disarmament, and avoidance of U.S. entanglement in the 
conflicts in Central America.

Instrumental in the early development of the Peace Center was the 
work of a core group of committed peace activists including Arne 
Westerback , Louise Clark, and Sheila Pedersen.

Over the years, the Center expanded its focus to include a wide range 
of programs that addressed raising peaceful children and race 
awareness. The larger community continued to have a voice through the 
Peace Center and has benefited from organized non-violent protests 
against military conflicts, including most recently the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. These protests take the form of peace marches, 
demonstrations, and a unique war memorial known as The Crosses of 
Lafayette. Much national and even international attention was focused 
on the local community when multi-denominational memorials were erected 
on a highly visible hillside one for each American military service 
member who has died in the current conflicts. It's a silent but 
powerful reminder to all who pass by of the human toll of war.

The Mt. Diablo Peace and Justice Center also provides inspirational 
classes in non-violence that continue to benefit the community as a 
whole. With its access to nationally known speakers, educational 
forums, and film series, the Center is able to promote peace and 
justice through a variety of mediums. Students, parents and teachers 
have access to a wide range of programs that include the Art and 
Writing Challenge and Youth in the Military, a counseling service for 
young people on national service alternatives to the military. Through 
local food collection and distribution, The Center also addresses the 
needs of the poor living in our local community.

As our world becomes seemingly smaller, the Peace Center is once 
again broadening its program. Currently, plans are underway for an 
International Peace Youth Camp which will bring outstanding teen 
leaders from around the world to the Center. Once at camp, they will 
have the opportunity to get to know each other and learn new methods of 
co-existence through cultural exchange.

Today, dedicated Peace Center leaders such as Barbara and Ed 
Tonningsen and Bob Hanson continue to bring the lessons of non-violence 
to our community and beyond.

I applaud the Mt. Diablo Peace and Justice Center for its strong, 
principled, and ongoing voice on the issues of peace and justice and I 
am proud to bring this organization to the attention of my colleagues. 
Congratulations to past and present members who have kept the Center 
viable and dynamic throughout the decades. As you celebrate 40 Years of 
Peacemaking, I wish you continued success.
