---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `76b044d7dd9a2598ac96f08ee7984b67`
`Mr. SIRES — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SIRES. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution 
on behalf of the 32,000 men and women from my State of New Jersey, and 
all the other servicemen and women that have been deployed since 9/11. 
I am so proud of their sacrifice and service to our Nation, and I will 
continue and always support them. After all, I am standing in front of 
you as a product of the sacrifices our soldiers have made in the name 
of liberty and freedom throughout the history of this country.

I also rise on behalf of my constituents, the people of New Jersey, 
and the people of this Nation whose tax dollars are paying for this war 
in Iraq. Since the beginning of the war, $379 billion has been 
appropriated. Another $235 billion is slated for the upcoming 
supplemental appropriations. We are currently spending $8 billion a 
month in Iraq, and the American people are footing the bill.

All this money could have been used to declare war on some of our 
domestic problems here at home such as poverty, improving our schools, 
ensuring access to health care and investing in affordable housing. 
This money could have been used to invest in our children, our family, 
our veterans, and especially our elderly. But it wasn't.

Instead, American taxpayers have also committed more than $38 billion


to Iraq reconstruction. About 33 percent of this money is targeted for 
infrastructure projects like roads, sanitation, water, electric power 
and oil production. However, I am concerned that only 25 percent of the 
Iraqi population has access to drinkable water.



I am concerned that of the 136 sanitation and water projects, only 49 
are said to be completed. I am concerned that the residents of Baghdad 
only have 4/1/2/ hours of electricity per day. And I am concerned that 
the current oil production in Iraq is half of what it was prior to the 
war.

Since the reconstruction project started, the Coalition Provisional 
Authority can't account for almost $9 billion of the taxpayers' money. 
Every year, $4 billion has been lost because of lack of oversight.

There have also been many problems with poor project and quality 
management. For example, the Baghdad Police College cost $75 million, 
and it was built without the proper plumbing for waste water. It has 
become a health and a structural hazard. The Basrah Children's Hospital 
is running $48 million over budget and is a year behind schedule. And 
after spending $186 million, Parsons has only 6 of the 150 planned 
health care centers completed and only 14 more will be finished. The 
list goes on and on.

Madam Speaker, the Iraqi Government says $100 billion is needed over 
the next 4 years to rebuild the country's infrastructure. Madam 
Speaker, the Iraqi Government seems to think they have open access to 
U.S. dollars. The Iraqi Government and the Iraqi people must take 
responsibility and help rebuild their country. Our support is not open-
ended, and neither are our tax dollars.

Madam Speaker, I support this resolution and this debate because our 
troops and our constituents can no longer afford to have this Congress 
support the administration's failed Iraqi policies. They failed to give 
us the necessary oversight for Iraq reconstruction efforts, they failed 
to listen to the advice of the military commanders, they failed to 
listen to the American people, and, as a result, they failed to provide 
a plan to success in Iraq.