---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `76c95763ee59816fe869d6594e2acc85`
`Mr. ALLARD — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. ALLARD. I also want to recognize Senator Bond, the Senator from


Missouri. He spoke before Senator Martinez. I thought he gave a very 
meaningful talk about the importance of FISA, along with Senator 
Martinez. He has a personal interest in what happens, not only as a 
Senator from the State of Missouri, but he has a son who serves in 
Iraq. So he gets a firsthand report, and I know he spends a lot of time 
studying it. He certainly has become one of the more knowledgeable 
people in the Senate as far as intelligence matters are concerned. I 
think it behooves all of us to listen to his presentation and the 
message he is sending.

I rise today to discuss S. 2634 in light of the current situation 
regarding the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The bill we are 
discussing calls upon the Secretaries of Defense, State, and Homeland 
Security, along with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Director of National 
Intelligence, to jointly submit to Congress a report setting forth the 
global strategy of the United States to combat and defeat al-Qaida and 
its affiliates. I can't imagine that this proposal would have any 
effect--given, for instance, that the Director of National Intelligence 
Mike McConnell has been calling for an extension of the Protect America 
Act, and the House refuses to listen. Director McConnell feels an 
extension is necessary to combat and defeat terrorists, including all 
al-Qaida, but that proposal doesn't seem to matter much.

As we all know, the existing authorities provided by the Protect 
America Act expired nearly 2 weeks ago. On February 16, the House 
Democratic leadership allowed these provisions to expire without a 
vote. So for the last 2 weeks, our intelligence community has lost out 
on opportunities to gather intelligence and to continue to keep our 
Nation safe.

As a majority of Senators know, the recently passed Senate version of 
FISA is a solid, workable, bipartisan bill that would greatly enhance 
the protection of this country. In addition, it would increase civil 
liberty protections and the protections of the privacy rights of 
Americans.

The Senate passed FISA modernization with bipartisan support. Since 
then, the House has failed to take up the provisions. What is most 
distressing, and quite frankly the most insulting factor in this 
situation, is that within the same week the House chose not to take up 
and make permanent essential provisions from the Protect America Act, 
the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform found time to 
conduct a hearing on steroids in professional baseball that amounted to 
nothing more than a media circus. It is for reasons such as these that 
Congress has some of the lowest approval ratings in history. To top it 
off, the House promptly adjourned for a week of recess as the FISA 
provisions expired. If nothing else, this action--or more correctly 
inaction--presents the appearance that House leadership is prioritizing 
media-friendly events above the hard work of keeping our Nation safe 
and providing our intelligence agencies with the tools they need.

FISA in its current form is not sufficient to fight the war on 
terror. This issue, as much as any issue brought before Congress, needs 
to be clarified in a timely fashion. Time is most certainly not on our 
side, and continued delays in the passage of this bill will simply 
prolong our existing vulnerabilities.

Director of Intelligence Mike McConnell and Attorney General Michael 
Mukasey wrote on February 22 that:




 We have lost intelligence information this past week as a 


 direct result of uncertainty created by Congress's failure to 


 act.


Mr. President, is this a comment we simply want to disregard? Are 
House Democrats under the impression the DNI and Attorney General are 
bluffing? These claims need to be taken seriously, and political 
posturing simply will not suffice at this point.

Our intelligence community must act quickly in order to be 
successful. As lives literally depend on their expeditious decisions, 
it is not in our best interests to deprive our intelligence community 
of the ability to collect necessary foreign intelligence information. 
Having the ability to collect and obtain correct information at the 
right time is of critical importance to our struggle against radical 
Islamic terrorists who have grown increasingly brazen in their tactics. 
Additionally, our enemies have become more adept to changes in 
technology. The world moves quickly, and we have no choice but to keep 
up with the changes if we are to keep our country safe. The absence of 
a legislative framework creates an ambiguous environment that presents 
our enemies with opportunities to exploit our weakened defenses.

Nearly 2 weeks later, these provisions are still surrounded with 
uncertainty, as the House has failed to act on the bipartisan 
legislation put forth by the Senate. The information that has been lost 
in the last weeks is lost forever. We will never know what happened 
and, hopefully, we will never learn what we missed during this time the 
hard way. If we think the enemy is not watching the actions of 
Congress, we are simply fooling ourselves. Simply put, this is too 
critical an issue to be playing politics.

We are only hurting ourselves and insulting the men and women of our 
military and intelligence community who risk their lives every day 
while gathering and acquiring certain intelligence data, if we are 
going to waste their efforts by bogging down the collection of critical 
information. We know full well we must do a better job of connecting 
the dots in our enemies' communications, and the challenge is only 
increased with the Internet, cell phones, and other forms of 
communication. We don't need to unnecessarily place Americans in 
greater danger. To needlessly fail to detect a terrorist plot is one of 
the most egregious disservices that our Government could commit. The 
fact is, we are not on the same playing field as our enemies. As 
Americans, we have higher standards. We abide by laws and protocols 
which our enemies do not follow.

Protecting the civil liberties of Americans has always been one of 
the cornerstones of our democracy. However, a balance must be struck 
between protecting civil liberties and protecting our citizens from 
foreign threats. I believe this balance has been struck through the 
Senate bill. The legislation strikes this necessary balance. In 
changing times, revision of our surveillance laws needs to occur.

In the time between the court ruling requiring the Government to 
obtain FISA Court orders for foreign surveillance and passage of the 
Protect America Act, collection of foreign intelligence information 
decreased by 66 percent. We cannot ignore that fact. We are not making 
our Nation safer if our intelligence-gathering capabilities are 
functioning at one-third of their capacity. As such, Congress addressed 
these concerns through the Protect America Act. But now we have 
essentially taken a step back, and that is inexcusable.

As it stands today, there currently exists a legal uncertainty for 
the telecommunications companies assisting us in this critical task of 
gathering intelligence. This simply makes it more difficult to collect 
the vital information needed to keep Americans safe. I cannot emphasize 
enough how paramount it is to have the assistance of private 
telecommunications carriers to carry out intelligence gathering.

The Senate bill provides protective immunity to those carriers whose 
cooperation will be needed in the future. It also provides retroactive 
immunity to private carriers from civil lawsuits arising out of their 
alleged cooperation with the National Security Agency in their 
terrorist surveillance program between September 1, 2001, and January 
17, 2007. Also, this immunity does not extend to Government officials 
or to any criminal proceedings that may arise in the future out of the 
terrorist surveillance program.

Thus far the House version does not offer immunity to the 
telecommunications companies. I hate to even allude to the fact that 
failure to offer this immunity stands to benefit only two groups--
terrorists who exploit our system and trial lawyers who file class 
action suits--but I feel I must.

Mr. President, the U.S. Government owes these patriotic companies and 
their executives protections based on the good-faith effort they made 
in working with our intelligence community, assisting in their efforts 
to discover and thwart attacks against our Nation. The Senate 
Intelligence committee found and stated in its report that, without 
retroactive immunity, the private sector might be unwilling to 
cooperate with lawful Government


requests in the future, resulting in what the committee calls ''a 
possible reduction in intelligence.'' This is simply unacceptable for 
the safety of our Nation.

Because the companies stepped up to help their country in a time of 
war, they have been the subject of over 40 lawsuits, and counting. It 
doesn't take an accountant to realize these claims and the litigation 
involved could end up costing hundreds of billions of dollars. These 
companies could end up in bankruptcy, and the trial lawyers will 
continue to get richer.

The bottom line is the FISA temporary provisions need to be 
reauthorized as soon as possible. The temporary provisions expired on 
February 16, almost 2 weeks ago, and since then leaders in the 
intelligence community have stated that we have lost important 
information as a result of Congress's failure to act. It is 
unacceptable and irresponsible to ignore the needs of our intelligence 
community at this stage of the legislative process. The House owes it 
to America to accept the Senate bill or expeditiously work out changes 
in a conference so we can provide the protection the American people 
deserve and demand.

I see my colleague from the State of New Mexico is prepared to make 
his comments. I publicly thank him for his service over the years. He 
is a great leader. I appreciate what he has done for America.

I yield the floor.


















 energy
