---
---

# THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA AND THE PRESIDENT'S AGENDA ON IRAQ
## `76d5f9f0f27077674d775bfc81da6b02`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Tennessee for his 
commitment to this country and the passion that he brings to everything 
he does. I point out, that meeting in Africa, we arrived from different 
locations and almost by coincidence, by providence, we arrived at the 
same location to address the things we were concerned about in South 
Africa at the time. I also note that Mr. Wamp shows up to address these 
issues spontaneously on occasion. I very much appreciate your 
leadership, Zach.

As we sit here tonight, I will review some of the things that Mr. 
Wamp addressed. He listed a number of books that he recommended that we 
read.


Among them was the book ''While Europe Slept'' by Bruce Bawer, and that 
is, I think, one of the most profound reads I have ever gone through. 
It tells the story how the author has traveled from New York City into 
Holland to make his life there, and realized he could never become a 
Dutchman in Holland the same way you can become an American in the 
United States. So he moved to Norway to become a Norwegian and found 
out that although he could develop his language skills and understood 
the culture and history of Norway, he would never be a Norwegian 
because they don't have a system of assimilation that we have or at 
least had in the United States.

So he traveled throughout the countries in Europe and gathered 
anecdotes and data and studies and compiled an understanding of what is 
happening with the ethnic enclaves that have been created in Europe, 
those enclaves that are Muslim enclaves.

Our idea has been in this country to promote assimilation. Everybody 
can become an American. That, we have considered to be 
multiculturalism. But the multiculturalism in Europe is different. That 
is, let us create an ethnic enclave here, and look at us. We are no 
longer this blue-eyed, blond society, or whatever it happens to be in 
the Scandinavian north or whatever the complexion might be in some of 
the other areas in Europe. We now have multiculturalism by ethnic 
enclave, and the ethnic enclaves being primarily Muslim have not 
integrated into the rest of society, and they have brought more and 
more from their home country and grown their enclaves to the point 
where Bruce Bawer's analysis comes down to that skepticism that France 
will ever be French again within the next generation, and that the 
takeover that takes place without the assimilation by rejecting the 
host country's culture and importing the culture of the newly arriving 
immigrants transforms these countries and explains why you can see 
second generation British of Pakistani descent setting off bombs in the 
subways in London.

It explains that, and it shows what is happening to the culture in 
Europe because they have opened up their borders and not promoted 
assimilation. When it is done, Bruce Bawer's analysis comes down to the 
choice for Europe will be either one of two things: total capitulation 
or mass expulsion. That is what Europe is faced with, and I am not 
optimistic that Europe will recover and come back to being a partner 
for the free world again because the people that are in those countries 
that are slowly by birth rate taking over don't believe in the freedoms 
that we believe in, Mr. Speaker. They reject them. They reject Western 
civilization and our Christian culture. The reject the Judeo-Christian 
belief system. The wahabists that Mr. Wamp talked about, they believe 
they have an obligation or at least a right to annihilate those who 
don't believe like they do.

That is the enemy that we are up against. And this geopolitical 
dynamic needs to be understood by the Members of this Congress, and I 
am thinking the best way they can understand it is when the American 
people study it and get their voice into the ears of their 
representatives, the 435 here in the U.S. States House of 
Representatives.

But to take on a little more of this, I would point out that a major 
question needs to be asked and answered, and I hope the President has 
asked the question and I hope he has answered the question, and that 
is: Can we live with, here in the United States, a nuclear armed Iran? 
That is part of this overall equation. It isn't just confined to Iraq.

As I spoke earlier, Iran is conducting a proxy war against the United 
States in Iraq by training and funding and harboring terrorists and 
sending them munitions and equipping them and also making IEDs and 
other munitions that go into Iraq that are being used against Iraqis of 
all stripes and being used against Americans. That has to stop.

But can we tolerate a nuclear-powered Iran, an irrational nuclear-
powered Iran that has Ahmadinejad who is fuming and making allegations 
about the annihilation of Israel and the annihilation of the United 
States.

All we have to do is listen to these tyrants and believe what they 
say. Every action that they make makes it clear that they will develop 
a nuclear bomb. They will develop more than one. They are developing 
the means to deliver it now, as they are developing a bomb now. Why 
would we disbelieve them? Why would we think that we could talk them 
out of it? When you go into negotiations, you never get something for 
nothing. You have to have something to offer.

I ask the President, and I hope he will tell us tonight, that he has 
put the cross hairs on Iran, and directly on their nuclear capability 
and sent through a back-channel message to Ahmadinejad and the mullahs 
that run him that Iran's nuclear days are numbered and that there is a 
decision that has already been made that they will not have a nuclear 
capability. And if they cease and desist from their proxy war against 
the United States that they are conducting within Iraq, then they will 
be allowed, perhaps, enough negotiation time that they can save some 
face before they dismantle their nuclear endeavor.

Should they proceed, then the decision needs to be made whether to 
take out Iran's nuclear capability. We saw 4 days ago, there was 
intelligence or I will say a press leak that came out of Israel that 
they have a contingency plan to take out Iran's nuclear capability with 
limited tactical nuclear weapons. If they have to do that, I am afraid 
there is an all-out conflagration in the Middle East, and all Arab 
countries will descend upon Israel. If somebody has to do it, it is 
better if we do it. It is better if Ahmadinejad dismantles his nuclear 
capability.

That is where I would start: Cross hairs on Ahmadinejad, put the 
cross hairs on their nuclear capability, and then if they back out of 
Iraq, then we can have a peaceful Iraq. We still have to remove Muqtada 
al-Sadr and some other militia leaders. If those two things happen, 
that shuts off the money, the munitions and the operations of violence 
that are there. As long as there is money there, somebody is going to 
set an IED. I can see that. But most is controllable by the Iraqis.

I have watched as thousands of Iraqi troops have been trained, lined 
up in ranks. I first saw them and reviewed those troops in October 
2003. Those troops were trained by General David Petraeus. He headed up 
the Iraqi military training operations when he was over there during 
the last deployment, and now he has been appointed to command all 
military operations within Iraq. He is the most impressive military 
person I have met in my life. If anyone can run this operation in Iraq 
successfully, it is David Petraeus. He has the love and respect of many 
of the Iraqis, the Kurds and Sunnis and Shias. And in Mosul, where the 
101st Airborne, which he commanded when they went in to liberate Iraq, 
there in Mosul, they went in and liberated Mosul in the latter part of 
March 2003. By the end of May 2003, General Petraeus had held open 
elections in Mosul in those three provinces there, and elected a 
governor and a vice governor, and I also recall a business 
representative at the table in those discussions that we had. That was 
an impressive means to win the hearts and minds of the people, and also 
from a military tactical perspective.

But to give you an understanding of how effective General Petraeus 
has been, there is a sign, and I have a picture of it as a street sign 
on a broad street in the city of Mosul in Iraq, and it said: 101st 
Airborne Division. They misspelled ''airborne'' and ''division'' so I 
was pretty sure that it was a sign put up by the Iraqi people in 
appreciation for the 101st Airborne led then by General Petraeus who 
will be taking over and commanding all military forces within Iraq.

We can win this. We must win this. We do not have a tactical threat 
against us. We can and will prevail. The American people need to stand 
together. Mr. Wamp said that, and I agree with him.



We need to stand with our Commander in Chief. It isn't really up to 
the President to convince the American people that we should move 
forward on this, but it is up to us to support our military. And if we 
are going to support our military, we must support their mission, Mr. 
Speaker.

So I look forward to the President's speech. It is a pleasure for me 
to have the honor and privilege to turn over, I will say this network, 
to the President of the United States as he lays out a


plan for victory in the battlefield of Iraq, which will take us on to a 
final victory in the overall global war on terror.

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Hunter), 
who was the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee.