---
---

# PEAK OIL
## `76d8a9f7b0d1030909e9d704c390978c`
`Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I believe that this is the 
38th time that I've come to the floor to talk to my colleagues and, 
through the miracle of television, to the American people about a 
phenomenon that is becoming more and more apparent and more and more 
important to us.

This phenomenon is what we call peak oil. When I first started 
talking about this, I wasn't even sure what we were going to call it, 
the great rollover at that point in time when we've reached our maximum 
production to produce oil and we're rolling over to slip down the other 
side of that slope, or peak oil. We decided to call it peak oil, and 
now that is a pretty well-known terminology around the world.



When I first started talking about this, oil was $40 a barrel. Now 
oil is over $100 a barrel. In our Frederick News Post, a local paper, a 
headline today says: ''Oil Spikes Above $102 a Barrel for the First 
Time.'' As I left my office, oil was above $101 a barrel and going up. 
The euro was, I think, $1.51; gold was about $960.

And America doesn't seem to be responding. I asked one of my 
colleagues why, and he said, well, it's a problem of addiction. We're 
addicted to oil. The President appropriately said that in one of his 
State of the Union messages. He said, when you're addicted, what it 
costs really doesn't matter. If you're addicted to alcohol or cocaine, 
if it costs you your marriage, your job, your house, meeting the 
demands of the addiction is the important thing.

The chart that I have here I think shows the problem. The disgruntled 
citizen is down here saying, ''Gee, just why is gas so expensive?'' 
More than $3 a gallon. And there it is, a tiny little supply and a huge 
demand. It's a matter of supply and demand. In the time that I have 
been talking about peak oil, when it has risen from $40 a barrel to 
over $100 a barrel, the production of oil worldwide has remained 
essentially constant while the demand has been increasing. And when 
that happens, of course, there will be an increase in price; and we 
have seen that increase in price.

The next chart kind of places this in a perspective, and what it 
shows is the enormous importance of energy from fossil fuels, 
particularly the energy from gas and oil, enormous importance to the 
economies of the world. In 8,000 years of recorded history, I show here 
about the last 400 years. If I went back the rest of the 8,000, it 
would be the same. So near zero you couldn't see the difference. And 
here we show the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. It began with 
wood and then coal, and it was stuttering a little with coal, and then 
we discovered gas and oil, and, wow, it took off. Look at that slope. 
Incredibly, during the Carter years and up to that time, every decade 
we used as much oil as we had used in all of previous history.

Mr. Speaker, if you reflect for a moment on what that means, what 
that means is that when we had pumped half of all the oil that would be 
pumped in the world, we then would have 10 years left. Now, we have 
become much more efficient since then, and that was induced by the oil 
price spike hikes of the 1970s and the world-wide recession that 
followed that and an attention to efficiency, and your air conditioner 
and refrigerator are probably three times as efficient as they were 
back then.

If we had a population graph, you would see the population following 
this, now nearly 7 billion people in the world, most of us living 
incredibly well. Each person in our country has a life-style that if it 
were not for fossil fuels would require the work of 300 faithful people 
powering the industry and manning your household to permit you to live 
the quality of life that you're living.

That's the amount of energy that we get from these fossil fuels. One 
barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year, 
25,000 man hours of effort. When I first saw that, I thought that can't 
be true. Just 42 gallons of oil and has the energy equivalent of 12 
people working all year? And then I thought about my Prius car and how 
far that gallon of gasoline, still cheaper than water in the grocery 
store if you buy it in the little bottles, how far that takes my Prius, 
47 miles averaging now over the last 15,000, 20,000 miles.

Now, I could pull my Prius 47 miles, but it would take me quite a 
while with come-a-longs and using the guard rail and trees and so forth 
to pull my Prius 70 miles. So I thought maybe that is true. And that is 
true, that each barrel of oil contains the energy equivalent of 12 
people working all year. So our use of this fossil fuel energy has 
produced for us an incredible quality of life.

The next chart is a history of how we got here, and this begins about 
51 years ago, a speech given by M. King Hubbert to a group of oil 
people in San Antonio, Texas, on the 8th day of March, when he 
predicted in 1956 that we would be peaking in our country in oil 
production by 1970. Nobody believed that. We were then king of oil, 
producing more oil than any other country in the world, consuming more, 
exporting more. But right on schedule, in 1970, we peaked in oil 
production.

In spite of two things, in spite of finding a good deal more oil in 
Alaska and a good deal more oil in the Gulf of Mexico, this is the 
Alaska oil and this yellow is the Gulf of Mexico oil, and in spite of 
finding considerable oil in those two places, we now are producing 
about half the oil that we produced in 1970. And that's also in spite 
of drilling more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. 
We have about 530,000 producing oil wells in our country, and that's 
more than all the rest of the world put together.

The next chart is an interesting one because it again shows what is 
referred to as Hubbert's Peak; and if you want to know a lot about 
this, you can do a Google search for Hubbert or Hubbert's Peak and a 
lot of this information will pop up for you.

The yellow triangles here represent M. King Hubbert's prediction of 
what oil production would be. The green is the actual production, and 
the red shows the total production from the United States including 
Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico, because M. King Hubbert had not included 
Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico in his analysis. This chart is presented 
by CERA to convince you that you shouldn't be too concerned about M. 
King Hubbert's prediction that the world would be peaking about now 
because he was wrong about the United States, and I think this is a 
statistician's debate because they're making the point that those green 
squares are materially different than the yellow triangles.

Now, I've had a course, an advanced course, in statistics; and I 
might, using the magic of statistical math, prove to myself that there 
is a meaningful difference there; but, boy, just looking at that, I 
think that the green curve looks pretty much like the yellow curve, 
doesn't it? We produced a bit more with Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico, 
but that was just a blip in sliding down the other side of Hubbert's 
Peak, and there we are today at about half of the production that we 
had in 1970.

The next graph shows us the reality of where we are. And if you had 
only one chart to look at, this would be that chart. It's said that a 
picture's worth a


thousand words, and this is worth more than a thousand words. The 
little bars here show when we found the oil. And you see we started to 
find a lot of it in the 1940s and the 1950s; and, boy, did we find it 
in the 1960s and another peak in the 1980s. And ever since the 1980s, 
in spite of ever better techniques for finding oil, it's been down, 
down, down.

The solid line here represents our consumption of oil. It's the same 
chart that you saw previously. And this shows what happened in the 
1970s. And it shows here dramatically the difference in the slope. We 
were increasing our use of oil at this rate. And you see if we had 
continued that, by now it would be off the chart, wouldn't it? Just 
extrapolate from this curve and you're off the chart. But we really 
learned how to be more efficient in the 1970s; so now the growth rate 
is about 2 percent a year and much slower than that.


Now, what will the future look like? Ever since 1980 we have been 
using more oil than we found. And the difference between what we found 
and what we used is made up from reserves. We're now pumping some of 
these reserves from the past.

What will future discoveries be like? These forecasters have 
indicated slowly declining production. It won't be smooth like that, 
but will probably average about like that because most experts that I 
know believe that we have probably found about 95 percent of all of the 
really recoverable oil that we will find in the world unless the prices 
are very high and we have technologies that are now only conceptual.

So what the future will look like will depend upon how quickly you 
think we can and ought to use these reserves because the difference 
between what we use, and, of course, you can't use what's not pumped, 
but the difference between what we use and what is available to use is 
this space in here, and that's going to be filled up by the reserves 
back here. With enhanced recovery and aggressive techniques of pumping 
live steam down there and sequestering CO2 down there and 
flooding it with seawater the way they're doing it in Saudi Arabia, we 
might get it more quickly and we might get a little more of it, but it 
won't dramatically change what the future looks like.

The next chart is a schematic, which I think shows where we are, and 
this is again what we've referred to as Hubbert's Peak. And it reflects 
a 2 percent growth and decline after that. Now, you can make this peak 
look sharp or flat. Here we have expanded the abscissa and compressed 
the ordinate so that it's kind of flat. You can make it a really sharp 
peak if you do the reverse, but that yellow area there represents 35 
years because, you see, 2 percent growth, just 2 percent growth, which 
is so small that our market really doesn't like that, if it's only 2 
percent growth, Wall Street doesn't do very well. But 2 percent growth 
doubles in 35 years. It's four times bigger in 70 years. It's eight 
times bigger in 105 years. It is 16 times bigger in 140 years.

Now, we've been here a long time, and I hope we're here another 140 
years; and if we have only 2 percent growth, we would be using 16 times 
as much energy in 140 years from now. I will tell you categorically 
there will not be 16 times as much energy to use so things in the 
interim will need to change. I think we're about here, and I will 
present evidence from a number of sources that corroborate that.

And most people are now concentrating on how do we fill the peak. 
Because with our addiction to these fossil fuels, this is what we would 
like to use, but we're only going to have this much available; so we 
have got to somehow fill in that peak. I will tell you that as far as 
liquid fuels are concerned, I don't think there's a prayer that we can 
fill in that gap. I think that we will be more than lucky if we can 
continue with a plateau, that what we can get from oil will be this 
curve and we can now have some renewables which will fill in to give us 
a plateau. We can live very comfortably with that. A chart a little 
later will show that.

The next chart is an interesting one. It's by a major organization, 
CERA, and they're one of the few entities in the world now that still 
is kind of in denial on peak oil. Although they say that, undulating 
plateau versus peak oil, but what they're showing there is a peak. And 
what they're showing here is that if we don't find much more oil, 
because we've found roughly 2 trillion barrels of recoverable oil and 
we've used a trillion barrels of those and that's just 1.92 trillion, 
and so if we find oil as depicted in that earlier chart we showed, then 
peaking would occur about here, which is imminent, is it not?

Now, if we find as much more oil as all the recoverable oil that 
still remains to be pumped, then that moves the peak out to this point. 
That's my kids. That's not even my grandkids. That's my kids that will 
have to deal with that. Even if that is true, then there's some 
unconventional oil, and I have no idea how much of that we can exploit. 
There are huge reserves in the Canadian tar sands and our oil shales of 
the West, Utah and Colorado. Heroic attempts are being made to exploit 
those. We're getting about a million barrels a day. That seems big, but 
the world is using more than 84 million barrels a day, and I just don't 
know what the potential will be. It is very uncertain what that 
potential will be. They are huge potential amounts of energy, but so 
are there huge potential amounts of energy in the tides. Because it's 
in the tides doesn't mean it's in the gas tank of your car, and the 
same thing is relatively true of these alternative sources of 
unconventional oil. Now, that also includes the heavy sours, and those 
we are converting and can convert; so there's some of that there too.

The next chart is a very recent one and very informative.



There are two major entities in the world that track production and 
use. And, of course, the use and production are essentially the same 
thing because we have no big reserves of oil in the world. We are kind 
of using it as we produce it because we are hungry for oil in our 
economy. One of those is the IEA, the International Energy Agency, and 
El Baradei, and that is the one that is keeping track of what is going 
on with the nuclear thing in Iran, and you see them frequently in the 
news. And the other is our own Energy Information Administration, a 
part of our Department of Energy. And I would caution you to be kind of 
suspect on their predictions for the future because they are using what 
I think, and what a good many think, are highly speculative 
prognostications by USGS as to how much more oil we are going to find. 
But they do a very good job of tracking.

And look what they have found. Look what they have found. If you 
smooth out the ups and downs of the red and the green, the red for IEA 
and the green for the EIA, we have been essentially plateaued in oil 
production for the last 30 months. Now, in the same 30 months, that is 
about the time it took oil to go from $40 a barrel to $102 a barrel. 
And isn't that what happens when you have a static supply and an 
increasing demand? If there is inadequate supply for the demand, the 
price goes up. The little blue line here shows the cost of oil. And it 
is now above $100 a barrel there, and it shows how dramatically the 
cost of oil responds to the availability of oil. There are a number of 
experts.

The next chart shows a quote, a very recent quote from Shell Oil 
Company, ''By the year 2100, the world's energy system will be 
radically different from today.'' It will indeed be radically different 
from today's. The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering 
room. We are experiencing a step change in the growth rate of our 
energy demands. And Shell estimates that after 2015, that is just 
around the corner, supplies of easy-to-access oil and gas will no 
longer keep up with demand. That is Shell Oil Company saying that we 
are going to peak out in the very near future in the production of gas 
and oil. We will not be able to meet the world's demands.

The next chart is a quote from our Secretary of State, Condoleezza 
Rice, noting the incredible geopolitical consequences. ''Yes, we do 
have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that 
nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of the State than 
the way the politics of energy is. I will use the word warping 
diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something now 
about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for 
energy supply.'' In 2006. We are now nearly 2 years later, and I will 
submit this was a very appropriate warning. We have done little.



The next chart is a really illustrative one, and this chart shows 
what our world would look like if the size of the country was relative 
to the amount of oil reserves that it contained. And you see in this 
chart that Saudi Arabia dominates the landmass of the world. Indeed, 22 
percent of all the oil reserves in the world we believe are in Saudi 
Arabia. And notice how large Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and the United Arab 
Emirates, just little dots on the map in the Middle East, and look how 
large they are in terms of how much oil they have. Venezuela, in our 
hemisphere, dwarfs the United States.

Here we are with 2 percent of the oil in the world, and the yellow 
indicates that we use a whole lot. Why, we are the only yellow one in 
the world, aren't we? We have 2 percent of the oil. We use 25 percent 
of the world's oil. This is a shocking picture.

The next chart shows the concerns of some of our leading thought 
people in our country on the implications of this for national 
security. Jim Woolsey, McFarland, and Boyden Gray and 27 other 
prominent Americans, several Four Star retired admirals and generals 
among them, about 3 years ago wrote a letter to the President saying, 
''Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's 
reserves of oil and we consume 25 percent of the world's oil and import 
almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national 
security exposure. We really have to do something about that.'' The 
President mentioned that in his State of the Union that we were 
addicted to oil, much of it coming from people, as he said, that don't 
even like us very much. And we really need to do something about that. 
Tragically, we have not done much about that.

We represent less than 5 percent of the world's population, one 
person out of 22 in the world. We use a fourth of the world's oil. That 
statistic is not lost on the rest of the world, by the way. They note 
that, that they're paying $8 a gallon for gasoline in France. We are 
still paying $3 in our country. Note that although we have only 2 
percent of the world's oil reserves, we are using 8 percent of the 
world's oil. What that means, of course, is that we are pumping our oil 
four times faster than the average in the world. That is understandable 
since we have more oil wells in our country than all the rest of the 
world put together.

The next chart really is an illustrative one. It has two bars. And 
the bar on the right, the top ten oil and gas companies on the basis of 
oil reserves, and notice that 98 percent of all of the oil reserves, 
this is among the top ten, 98 percent of all the oil reserves are 
Middle East. Lukoil, Russia, has only 2 percent. So that is who has the 
oil.

Now, who pumps the oil? Gee, we think that ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch 
Shell, and BP and so forth are huge companies. They are huge companies. 
But look, 78 percent of the top ten producers of oil, again, are these 
countries in the Middle East that are big giants, produce only 22 
percent of the oil.

The next chart is a quote from a speech given 51 years ago the 14th 
day of this May by Hyman Rickover to a group of physicians in St. Paul, 
Minnesota. And if you do a Google search for ''Rickover energy 
speech,'' it will pop up, an enormously prophetic speech. He noted that 
at that time we were about 100 years into the age of oil, and he had no 
idea how long the age of oil would last, but this is a quote. ''There 
is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They 
were created by solar energy a very long time ago and took eons to grow 
to their present volume.''

In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, 
they are indeed finite. They are not inexhaustible. The exact length of 
time these reserves will last is important in only one respect: The 
longer they last, the more time that we have to invent ways of living 
off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to 
the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift.

He had no idea how long the age of oil would last. We were then 100 
years into it. Now we pretty much know. With some confidence, I can 
tell you that the age of oil out of 8,000 years of recorded history 
will occupy about 300 years. As Hyman Rickover noted, this is but a 
blip in the long history of man. He said, ''Fossil fuels resemble 
capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use this 
capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as 
possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will 
squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring 
will fare.'' I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids, and two great grandkids. I 
am really concerned about their future relative to energy.


Do you know what we should have done when we found this incredible 
wealth under the ground, a barrel of which equaled the work output of 
12 people working all year? We should have stopped to ask ourselves, 
what can we do with this to provide the most good for the most people 
for the longest time? That clearly is not what we did. With no more 
responsibility than the kids who found the cookie jar or the hog who 
found the feed room door open, we have just been pigging out.

And incredibly, with all the evidences that we have been going 
through here and more, that we are either at or very near peak oil, we 
still want to rush to drill and pump the last little reserves that we 
know might be out there. If we could pump ANWR and the offshore oil 
tomorrow, what we would do the day after tomorrow? And that is the plea 
that Hyman Rickover makes in his speech. There will be a day after 
tomorrow.

The next chart is an interesting one, and it shows some of the 
misconceptions that are out there. These are projections by our Energy 
Information Administration as to what production will be in the future. 
And we don't have time to go through the interesting transformation 
from frequency to probability, but somehow from USGS data to EIA 
charts, we went from a frequency to a P, which is a probability, and 
there they are making the bizarre statement that a 50 percent 
probability is greater than a 95 percent probability. And of course 
that can't be true. And this is the 95 percent probability. This is the 
50 percent probability.

And their projection is that world oil production, this is, by the 
way, a smoothing out that chart we saw before with a lot of discoveries 
around the 1970s and 1980s and they have just drawn a relatively smooth 
curve over that. They were projecting that we were going to find more 
and more, and we were going to follow the green line. But look what has 
been happening since they made this projection, what you would expect 
might be happening: 95 percent probable is more than 50 percent, and it 
has been following the 95 percent probability.

The next chart is an interesting observation from Jean Laherrere, who 
is an expert in this area. And he is looking at the prognostications 
that are used to project that green curve that we are going to find 
more and more, so don't worry about the future. He says that the USGS 
estimate implies a five-fold increase in discovery rate and reserve 
addition for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in 
performance is, in fact, utterly implausible, given the great 
technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, 
computer modeling and 3-D seismic, the worldwide search and the 
deliberative effort to find the largest remaining prospects. Indeed, it 
really is quite implausible.

The next chart shows that even if that happened, even if that 
happened, even if we found as much more oil as all the known 
recoverable reserves today, it still wouldn't make that much 
difference. Because here we are, and here is that recession in the 
1970s and our slower rate of increase because we are now more 
efficient. And the red curve indicates that we will find another 
roughly trillion barrels of oil, as much more oil as all the oil that 
we now know can be reasonably recovered. And if that happens, it pushes 
the peak out to 2016. Big deal, 9 years from now. That is the power of 
compound growth.

When Albert Einstein was asked, after the discovery of nuclear 
energy, Dr. Einstein, what will be the next big force in the universe? 
He said that the most powerful force in the universe is the power of 
compound interest. And you see that here.

And by the way, if we now use heroic efforts with enhanced recovery 
and we get it out quicker and maybe a little more, then it follows this 
curve, but then you pretty much fall off a cliff. You can't pump what 
is not there.

There have been four studies. The next chart is a quote from one of 
those


studies. There have been four studies. The chart just up was a chart 
from that same study. There have been four studies paid for by your 
government, and pretty much ignored by your government. The first of 
these studies was the big study done by SAIC, known as the Hirsch 
report, published in 2005. And this is SAIC, a big prestigious 
organization of worldwide respect. He said that the world has never 
faced a problem like this. World oil peaking is going to happen. World 
production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline 
thereafter. That happened in our country in 1970.



The same man who predicted it would happen in our country in 1970 
predicted it would be happening in the world about now. If he was right 
about our country, why shouldn't we have been concerned about the 
probability he might have been right about the world? The world has 
never faced a problem like this.

The next chart shows a couple of more quotes from the Hirsch Report. 
''. . . will present the United States and world with unprecedented 
risk management problems, but the economic, social and political costs 
will be unprecedented.'' There is nothing in history to prepare us for 
this.

The three other reports, I mentioned that there were four, three 
other studies, actually, two reports from the Hirsch study, the second 
one was done by the Corps of Engineers, also in 2005. They said 
essentially the same thing in different words, that the peaking of oil 
is either present or imminent, with potentially devastating 
consequences.

The third one was by the Government Accountability Office in 2007, 
just last year, and they said essentially the same thing, in different 
words.

The last one was by the National Petroleum Council, again last year, 
saying essentially the same thing. ''The peaking of oil is either 
present or imminent with potentially devastating consequences.''

I have here I think a couple of more references to this very recent 
reference. Here is one. This is just out from the Deutsche Bank. There 
are several quotes in that, and you can pull this up and look at it. 
The 100 million barrels per day peak oil market, we are now somewhere 
84 and 88 million barrels a day. We use about a fourth of that, 21-22 
million barrels a day. I am not sure we will ever get to 100. But many 
people are prognosticating 120-150 million barrels a day. There is 
little probability that will happen.

Several CEOs are quoted in this of the large oil producing companies, 
and they are all saying essentially the same thing, that we are 
probably at peak oil.

Now, what do we do about that? I want to use the remaining time to 
talk about that.

The next chart is a chart of where we get our energy from today. 
Well, this was in 2000. That isn't quite today, and there have been 
some changes since then. But you can see we were getting, according to 
this chart, 24 percent of our energy from natural gas, 30 percent from 
petroleum, and from coal we got 23 percent. That adds up to 85 percent 
of all the energy that we are consuming comes from fossil fuels, and 
they are finite. They will not last forever.

Only 7 percent of that energy comes from true renewables, of the 
additional energy, to make up to 100, and 8 percent comes from nuclear 
electrical power. Now, that is 8 percent of the total energy in our 
country. That is almost 20 percent of our electricity is produced from 
nuclear power.

We are very much like the young couple whose grandparents have died 
and left them a big inheritance, and they now have established a really 
lavish lifestyle, where 85 percent of the money they are spending comes 
from their grandparents' inheritance and only 15 percent of it from 
their income. They look at what they are spending and how old they are 
and when they will retire, and, ''gee, the inheritance is going to run 
out before we retire, so we really got to do something. Either we got 
to spend less or make more.'' And that is precisely where we are.

This 85 percent, because we are reaching the maximum production of 
oil and gas, we will be tailing off, so there will be the necessity of 
replacing that. Just as this young couple would have to replace the 
limited resources in their grandparents' inheritance with more money or 
spend less money, that is where we are.

Now, these roughly represent the renewables. This was the picture in 
2000. It has changed a little. But in terms of the big picture, the 
dramatic changes since 2000 are really pretty trifling.

At that time, solar represented 1 percent. Solar has been growing 20-
25 percent a year. That is really big growth. But 1 percent of 7 
percent is .07 percent. So it is five times bigger, 0.35 percent. Still 
trifling, isn't it? Still way down, kind of in the noise level.

Wood. This is the paper industry and timber industry wisely using 
what would otherwise be a waste product, waste to energy. You can do 
several things with your public waste, and burying it is probably the 
least productive thing you ought to do with it. You can recycle it, and 
that ought to be done, to the extent that it is rational. Or you can 
burn it to produce energy.

But be cautious. This is not a solution to our fossil fuel problem, 
because most of that waste stream represents the profligate use of 
fossil fuel energy, and in a fossil fuel deficient world, it just won't 
be there. So for the moment it makes imminently good sense to do that, 
but recognize that will be a diminishing resource. As the world has 
less and less fossil fuels, we are learn to live with less and less 
waste.

Wind. Boy, that one is growing, maybe 40 percent a year. Denmark is 
the world leader in that. They have now freed themselves from the need 
of imported oil. Their huge wind machines produce electricity at about 
1.5 cents a kilowatt hour. We are doing it for about 2.5 cents a 
kilowatt hour. That is very competitive. And there is the potential for 
a lot of growth. Again, in 2000, that was only 1 percent of the 7 
percent renewables, which is 0.07 percent. So to get to be a really 
meaningful percent of our total energy production, we have to have a 
long time and huge growth there, don't we.

Conventional hydro, you see that is a big part of the renewables. 
That is truly renewable. As long as the sun shines and the water 
evaporates and it is carried up to the clouds and it drops on the 
mountains and flows down to the rivers, we have conventional hydro. 
That probably can't grow much in our country. But we could grow micro 
hydro. The big macro hydro, we probably tapped out on it. But the rest 
of the world has some potential for growth in hydro.

Alcohol fuel, just spend a moment talking about that. This seems like 
such a great idea. Our farmers are so good at growing these grains, and 
you can ferment the sugar and corn to make alcohol. The first cars that 
Henry Ford built ran on alcohol, so we are kind of just going full 
cycle if we turn back to alcohol.

We produced a fair amount of alcohol, and it doubled the price of 
corn. So our farmers, recognizing they could make more money growing 
corn than they could soybeans and wheat, they diverted land from 
soybeans and wheat at the same time that the world population is 
growing and the demands for these things are increasing.

So now we have an increase, double the price of corn, and a huge 
increase in the price of wheat and soybeans. And what that means is 
that three of the world's staple foods for people, corn, wheat, 
soybeans and rice, three of those have gone up because of our corn 
ethanol program. A UN official, noting what we had done and the 
consequences of this and the world increase in corn, wheat and soybean 
prices, said what we have done is a crime against humanity.

The National Academy of Sciences, now, this isn't Roscoe Bartlett 
saying this, I am just repeating the National Academy of Sciences, 
although we did some back-of-the-envelope computations and came to 
essentially the same conclusion, the National Academy of Sciences says 
if we took all of our corn and converted it to ethanol, and discounted 
it for fossil fuel input, which you really have to do to be fair, you 
can't be using fossil fuel energy to produce ethanol and pretend you 
are displacing fossil fuels, that we would in that case displace 2.4 
percent of our gasoline.

That is trifling. In fact, it is so trifling that they noted that if 
you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, you would save as much 
gas as converting all of our corn to ethanol.



They further said that if we converted all of our soybeans, no 
soybean oil for your salads, no soybean oil meal for your pigs and 
chickens and cows, converted all, but you still have the soybean meal 
left that you could use, but all the oil, convert all the oil to soy 
diesel, it would displace 2.9 percent of our diesel.

The reality is that these fossil fuels are incredibly rich in quality 
and quantity of energy. They have been easily exploitable. You put in 
our big oil fields one unit of energy and you get out 100 units of 
energy. It is the energy-profit ratio. In many of our wells today, we 
put in 1 and get out 1.5 or 1.2, but it is still profitable, so we 
still do it.

Geothermal. Now, that is true geothermal. That is not tying your heat 
pump to the ground temperature, which we really ought to do. When I got 
up this morning it was 18 degrees. If you had a heat pump, what you 
were trying to do to heat your house was to cool that 18 degrees 
outside. You had to take heat from out there and put it in your house.

Now, if you were tied to the ground, here it is 56 degrees. That 
looks really warm compared to 18, doesn't it? And the reverse in 
summer, of course. Your air conditioner in summer is trying to heat up 
that 102 air outside to cool your house. It would be a whole lot easier 
to work against a 56 degree ground temperature, wouldn't it? But this 
is talking about the true geothermal. That is where you are tapping 
into the heat produced in the molten core of the Earth.

Now, for all practical purposes, that is inexhaustible. It is not, of 
course, but you are talking in terms of millions and millions of years, 
so as far as we are concerned, it is inexhaustible. We have some real 
potential for that. There is not a chimney in Iceland that I saw, 
because they run everything there on geothermal. We have some places in 
our country where we can do that, and we can and should.

The next chart is a look at all of the potential substitutes, 
supplements, for fossil fuels. The first of these are some finite 
solutions, and that is the tar sands and the oil shales and coal. It is 
worth just spending a couple of minutes talking about those, because 
there are potentially huge, huge reserves there.

Conservatively, there are probably 1.5 trillion barrels of oil at 
both the tar sands and the oil shales, in each of those. There are 
potentially about 1.5 trillion barrels of oil in both the oil shales 
and tar sands. That is 3 trillion barrels between the two. And we have 
about 1 trillion barrels of recoverable oil in the known oil fields in 
the world. That is a huge amount, and some people will tell you, don't 
worry about the future, because we have all that oil there and we will 
get it out.

Well, they are working very heroically in Canada to exploit the tar 
sands. They have a shovel up there which lifts 100 tons at a time, they 
dump it into a truck which hauls 400 tons, and they haul it to a cooker 
that uses natural gas and cooks this really stiff oil so it will flow, 
and then they add some chemicals to it to keep it flowing when it 
cools.

They are producing about 1 million barrels a day. But they know what 
they are doing is not sustainable, because they are going to run out of 
the water it takes to do it, they are going to run out of the natural 
gas that they are using, and they are talking about building a nuclear 
power plant. And this seam, if you think of it as a seam, it is pretty 
much on top of the ground, but soon it ducks under an overlay and it 
would be prohibitively expensive to remove the overlay, so they will 
have to determine how to do it in situ, and they don't know how they 
can do that in situ. So because it is there doesn't mean it will be in 
your gas tank. But we really need to work at that.

But with these heroic methods, it is 1 million barrels a day. That is 
just a little over 1 percent of all the oil we use. So don't become too 
sanguine about the future because it is there, because there are huge 
engineering challenges in exploiting it.

The oil shales of our West, and conservatively there is 1.5 trillion 
barrels there, but to date nobody has found a way to competitively get 
that out, even with oil near $100 a barrel. There are several companies 
and consortiums working on some breakthrough technologies that may make 
exploitation of that possible. But there is still an enormous amount of 
uncertainty in that, and to bank on that solving your energy problems 
would be sort of the equivalent of banking on winning the lottery to 
solve your personal economic problems. It would be real nice if that 
happened.



But I wouldn't bet the ranch on it. You ought to have a plan B, so I 
think we ought to have a plan B here.

Whoa, some people will tell you, no problem about the future, because 
we have 500 years of coal. That isn't true. There is nobody I know who 
believes we have 500 years.

But for a long time the figure 250 years was tossed about. That's 250 
years at present use rate. There may be a chart later that shows this, 
but I will just go through the numbers now because they are really 
simple to understand. That 250 years shrinks to 85 years if there is 
only 2 percent growth.

Again, that's the power of compound growth. Then if you convert that 
coal to a gas or liquid and use the energy from coal to do it, which is 
the only fair thing to do, you have now shrunk to 50 years. If you 
share it with the world, and if you think about it, you think about it, 
there is no way you can avoid sharing it with the world. Because if we 
use oil produced from coal, then the oil we might have bought from the 
Middle East is available to somebody else.

So the end result is just as if you had sold three-fourths of that 
oil to the rest of the world, the oil they would get from coal, because 
they will be buying that three-fourths you didn't use from the 
countries from which you would have bought it. In that case it lasts 
12/1/2/ years.

But just recently, the National Academy of Sciences has said that we 
haven't really looked at coal reserves since the 1970s. And they have 
looked at coal reserves, and they say it's not 250 years of reserves, 
it's 100 years of reserves.

So if we use that same dynamic of compound growth, that 100 years 
shrinks to something probably less than 5 years if you convert it to a 
gas or liquid, use energy from coal to do that, and share it with the 
world.

Now, there is a lot of coal out there, and we are fortunate in being 
one of the major repositories of coal in the world, and you can convert 
it to a gas or a liquid. Germany did that during World War II. South 
Africa learned to do it when their trade was restricted with the rest 
the world. But this is not a panacea. It's there, and we will use it. 
But we need to use that as a bridge to get the true renewable, nuclear.

Now, nuclear is kind of in a class by itself. There are three basic 
types of nuclear power plants; two of them we have, one of them is a 
dream. The two that we have is the light water reactor using 
fissionable uranium. That's the only one used worldwide to produce 
electricity. France produces about 75 or 80 percent of their 
electricity from nuclear. We still produce more electricity with our 20 
percent than the total amount they produce because we are so much 
bigger than them.

By the way, and that uses fissionable uranium, and there is a finite 
amount of that in the world. It is not infinite. I get wildly divergent 
estimates of how much remain, but it's not in hundreds of years. It's 
in decades, not in hundreds of years.

A second type of nuclear energy is the breeder reactor, which, as the 
name implies, produces more fuel than it uses. That has been used in 
producing nuclear weapons in our country and other places in the world. 
It has big problems in transporting weapons, potentially weapons-grade 
materiel to enrichment and so forth, and of storing away some products 
that will be hot for a quarter of a million years.

Now, just intuitively, something so energetic that I can't get near 
it for a quarter of a million years just ought to have enough energy in 
there to do something useful with it, and they now are working at that, 
and there are now some exciting new technologies that may permit us to 
get a whole lot more energy out of these fuels than we were getting in 
the past. So there is a real opportunity for nuclear to kind of take up 
the slack, but note that that produces electricity.

Unless you are going to go to electric cars, that doesn't help much 
in liquid


fuels, and the real crisis in the future, the real challenge for the 
future, is going to be liquid fuels. Now, the only silver bullet that I 
know of, and, again, this is not liquid fuels, but you can have 
electric cars, was some challenges in producing batteries and with the 
raw materials necessary for those and disposing of the batteries and so 
forth.

Fusion is inexhaustible, if we get to it. That's what the sun is 
doing. It's a huge nuclear fusion plant. We may get there. We spend 
about $250 million a year doing that, and we are always about 30 years 
away from a functioning fusion power plant.

I gladly support the $250 million, but I will tell you that I think 
the odds of getting there are relatively small. The rewards are so huge 
that it's worth the investment even if the chance of success is small, 
so I happily vote for this.

But please have a plan B. If we get there, wonderful. But the 
probability that we will get there is, I think, quite small, so we 
really need a plan B. You can't count on that as the future energy 
source for your kids and your grandkids.

Now, here are the renewables that we have been talking about. Let's 
see if there are some here. Ocean energy. Lots of potential from energy 
from the oceans, the ocean waves, the ocean tides. The Moon lifts the 
whole ocean, three-fourths of the Earth's surface, several feet a day.

I carry two 5-gallon buckets of water, that's heavy. When I think 
about the huge amount of potential energy in just those tides, it's 
more than we are using, but it's disbursed, very difficult to capture. 
There is an old axiom that says, energy, to be effective, must be 
concentrated when the tides are just so disbursed. Very difficult.

There is ocean thermal gradients. Some places the surface of the 
ocean is very warm, the deep waters are very cold, and you can, with 
the principle of the thermocouple, get energy from that divergent 
temperature difference. So there are a lot of opportunities, potential 
opportunities from energy from the ocean, and we ought to be exploiting 
all of those.

Methanol. Methanol is simply an alcohol made from wood rather than 
grain. Grain alcohol has two carbons, wood alcohol has one carbon, but 
it burns with roughly the same amount of energy.

A biomass, and a lot of talk about biomass today, and you look out 
there at all of that wasteland and those trees and that grass, and, 
gee, if we could just take that and convert it into alcohol. You can do 
that with some little organisms that we have bioengineered that mimic 
what the organisms do in the gut of the sheep or the goat or the cow or 
the cecum of the horse and the guinea pig. They can break down the 
cellulose molecule into the constituent glucose molecules. Then, of 
course, you can ferment those glucose molecules. But we have not yet 
perfected that technology so that it is amenable to huge, large-scale 
production, but maybe we can get there.

I have a major concern that Hyman Rickover talked about in his great 
speech, and again, I would urge that that's a very instructive speech. 
Hyman Rickover, energy speech, Google, search it. It will pop up for 
you.

He noted in that speech that we shouldn't be competing with food for 
energy. That's corn ethanol, biodiesel. We should be careful in 
competing with a humus for fuel, because, you see, the weeds that grow 
today in that vacant lot, that will grow this summer, are in at least 
some measure growing because last year's weeds died and are fertilizing 
them.


I remember back, I was born in 1926, so I lived during the 
Depression, and I remember farmers in the Depression which said, gee, I 
have now worn out my third farm. What they did was to go in and mine 
the farm simply by planting crops that drew from the soil far more 
energy than he or the plants put into the soil. So soon, the soils were 
nonproductive and there were few of us in a big country, and he just 
moved on.

You can't move on today, and so we have to have sustainable 
agriculture. I don't know the extent to which we can exploit what might 
be a huge potential from energy from biomass, but I would caution that 
we really need to look at sustainability.

If you have ever gone to the tropical rain forest that looks to be a 
hugely rich dynamic, and, gee, if I only could get all of that stuff 
off of there, I could grow tremendous crops on that soil.

But when they did that, there was bitter disappointment, because what 
they found was that essentially all of the nutrients in that ecosystem 
were involved in the growth, death, decay, regrowth. When they took 
that material off the soils, for what they called laterite soils, they 
baked like a brick. It would take a very long time by secondary 
succession to come back to a rain forest. We need to be very careful 
about sustainability.

I have been a big proponent of what we call ARPA-E, and we voted 
that. It's not been funded, and the administration is not recommending 
funding it, and I hope they reconsider.

ARPA-E kind of mimics our DARPA, which has been an enormously 
successful organization in exploiting leading-edge technologies, and 
the net out there is their creation. They have been the creator of a 
lot of really exciting technology, because what they do is to fund 
leading-edge things that are so far out there and so risky that 
business rationally can't do it, and probably in terms of fidelity to 
their stockholders should not be doing it.

We think the future demands very creative approaches to selecting 
which of these alternatives we invest our limited amount of time and 
money and energy in.

My wife tells me that I shouldn't be talking about this. She said 
that don't you remember that in ancient Greece they killed the 
messenger that brought bad news. I tell her this is really a good news 
story. It's a good news story in two respects. One is that the sooner 
we start, the less bumpy the ride will be.

Now, we should have started at least 28 years ago. I say that because 
by 1980 we knew absolutely that M. King Hubbert was right about the 
United States. We were already 10 years down the other side of 
Hubbert's peak. We have now blown 28 years when he should have been 
doing something, but if we start today, the ride will be smoother than 
if we start tomorrow.

But even more importantly, I think this challenge is just 
exhilarating. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting 
and overcoming a huge challenge, and, boy, this is a big one.

A year ago, the holiday season, I was privileged to lead a codel of 
nine Members to China, and we went there to talk about energy. 
Incredibly, they began their discussion of energy by talking about post 
oil. Gee, you know, in our country, we tend to think in terms of the 
next quarterly report, and the next election. We are kind of dominated 
by what's called the tyranny of the urgent, which frequently sweeps the 
important off the table. But in that part of the world they seem to 
think in terms of generations and centuries. And so with that 
perspective, they were talking about a post-oil world, and they talked 
about post oil, and they had a five-point plan.

Number one, conservation. That's where it has got to begin is 
conservation. That will buy some time and free up some energy because 
we have run out of time. There is no surplus energy to invest in 
alternatives. Their oil wouldn't be $100 a barrel.

The second and third points of their five-point program was find 
alternatives, and as many of those as you can from their own country.

The fourth one will interest you, it's be kind to the environment, 
and they know that they are big polluters.

The fifth one is international cooperation. They are pleading for 
international cooperation.

What we need, and I will close with this brief statement, what we 
need is a program that has a total commitment of World War II, the 
technology focus of putting a man on the Moon, and the urgency of the 
Manhattan Project. We are the most creative, innovative society in the 
world. We are up to the challenge. We need leadership. We can do it.
