# THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA AND THE PRESIDENT'S AGENDA ON IRAQ
## `76d9e171499e8f714683974b1053e69d`
`Mr. WAMP â€” 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman very much for yielding.

And I just want to open by saying how encouraging it is to see a 
Member like yourself take such a hands-on interest in the affairs of 
the Middle East, and I think anyone here tonight or watching these 
proceedings would understand your perspective and how informed it is. 
Plus you approach it from the purity of an Iowan. And I am very 
grateful for your due diligence and for the work that you have done and 
the way that you understand these threats.

I was reminded, as you were speaking, that just a couple of years ago 
you and I were in Africa together talking about these threats and how 
we were concerned that Africa was also at risk with some of the areas 
like Somalia, which is in the news again this week, where these 
international terrorist networks are, frankly, looking for another 
sovereign nation from which to


operate, as they had with Afghanistan, and how global this threat 
really is.

I did not come, Mr. Speaker, to the floor tonight to in any way 
alienate or accuse anyone here or the other party in this case, because 
if ever there was a time in my life where we need Democrats and 
Republicans to come together on an issue of national/international 
importance, it is this issue. This is where I hope that there are never 
partisan motives attached to anyone's position on matters of war and 
peace.

I want to go back to the very time when we voted in the House and the 
Senate to remove Saddam Hussein by force and remind everyone that over 
half of the Democrats in the Senate voted to do so and almost half of 
the Democrats in the House voted to do so. And they can say now, oh, 
but we didn't have good information or whatever their rationale is for 
wanting to pull out abruptly now, but the truth is we are where we are 
and this situation is as it is and we are in it together. And if ever 
there was a time where Americans need to meet again at the water's 
edge, it is now.

I don't want to preempt what the President says tonight. The 
President is in a very difficult place because the war has not gone 
well. We have made mistakes. We have not implemented certain policies 
to the best of our ability. And I think it is important for him to 
recognize those flaws and those shortcomings with the mission to this 
point because, in my opinion, all great leaders at some point say we 
are on the wrong road and we need to get to this road or we have made 
this mistake or that mistake and if you will join me, we can rectify 
this problem. Because the stakes are enormous, as you said.

The great football coach Vince Lombardi, and football is just 
meaningless compared to these matters of war and peace and life and 
death, but he said once that fatigue makes cowards of us all. We need 
to remember that as a people, as a Nation, because we are all tired of 
this. I mean, I am weary of attending funerals in my district. I 
attended one with my wife again Monday, another one of a young soldier 
who died in Iraq over the holidays. His son was born the day after he 
died. We are all sickened by this sacrifice and this loss. But I have 
got to tell you if that collectively causes us to lose our passion for 
freedom or our will to carry on our way of life, it will be a tragedy 
in American history, and these are the decisions of the moment.

Now I know that our friends from time to time quote people, but one 
of the people, ironically to me, that serves as kind of the conscience 
of some of these international issues is Senator Lieberman of 
Connecticut, who ran against, with my fellow Tennesseean Al Gore, the 
President and the Vice President. He just returned from this area and 
he came back in support of not only continuing our efforts until we can 
prevail in Iraq but, if necessary, and I am not endorsing increased 
troops tonight and I think the President is going to make his 
presentation and he has got a long way to go to convince the country 
and the Congress that this is necessary, so I am not endorsing that. 
But I am saying that Senator Lieberman came back and effectively 
endorsed, in order to control these areas of insecurity particularly 
within the 30-mile radius of Baghdad, increasing troop strength and he 
talked about ''greatly advancing the cause of moderation and freedom 
throughout the Middle East and protect our security at home.'' And I am 
very concerned that if we retreat into the 1990 style complacency that 
9/11s will continue.

One of the problems is that we did not have enough troops on the 
ground, and one of the expressions I wish hadn't been uttered was 
''Mission Accomplished'' because there were many difficult days ahead 
of us following that unfortunate time. We didn't have enough troops to 
secure the area in and around Baghdad, and that is where 80 percent of 
the violence is taking place.



Sending more troops to Iraq will not help unless it is coupled with a 
concrete and feasible plan and a new strategy that requires the active 
participation of the Iraqi government. And the goal should be clear, an 
Iraq run by, secured by and governed by the Iraqi people.

Frederick Kagan from the American Enterprise Institute wrote this 
week that, ''The real choice we face is this: Is it better to accept 
defeat than to endure the pain of trying to succeed.''

I will say it again. ''The real choice we face is this: Is it better 
to accept defeat than endure the pain of trying to succeed.''

I don't think we can accept defeat. I don't think we can be seen as 
in retreat, and I want to explain why. For one, all of those troops 
that have given their lives that I have been with the families of say 
to me, We must prevail. We must continue on. My son, my husband, my 
father, believed very much that this was a just cause and the right 
thing to do, and we must succeed. They have suffered great loss, and 
they believe that it is the right thing to do.

But I want to say this, this cannot be George W. Bush's war. This 
must be America's fight. We must see people in a bipartisan way come 
together around a plan. I don't know if 20,000 troops is the right 
number, or 5,000 or 100,000; but we need to come back together because 
we are where we are and it is what it is, and if we are ever going to 
bring troops home in victory in 18 months or 24 months, we may have to 
put our foot down in the short run. Senator Lieberman believes so. The 
President believes so. And I hope that the case is made clearly so that 
more and more Americans understand this.

Over the last few days, Zawahri, who is now the commander effectively 
of al Qaeda in the Middle East, has encouraged these terrorists to go 
to Somalia, as I said earlier, in northern Africa to fight the fight. 
The truth is this: If we were out of Iraq tomorrow, this threat 
continues. This threat did not just happen. September 11th was not the 
beginning of this. It was the culmination of them attacking us and our 
interests around the world and our sovereign land around the world, at 
our embassies. The same people, the jihadists, the extremists.

Read the book ''Hatred's Kingdom'' about wahabism, Qutubi and Azzam. 
In the 1950s, they began indoctrinating people on this unbelievably 
radical element in Islam to oppose anyone who did not believe as they 
believed, and that is the Hezbollah foundation out of Iran, as you say.

When people say these connections were not in place before September 
11th, these connections with these terrorist elements have been in 
place for years. Don't deny that. You are burying your head in the 
sand. Read ''Londonistan'' and how they have infiltrated London. Read 
''While Europe Slept'' and how they have infiltrated Europe. Read 
''America Alone'' or ''Looming Towers'' and understand that these 
threats are our generation's call to courage, and we cannot grow weary 
such that we retreat. Too much is at stake.

The President is trying to get us back on the right road. One speech 
is not going to do it. Tonight is not going to do it. But I am hopeful 
for our country's sake, not my party's sake, not the Democrat's sake, 
but for our country's sake so we can find a path forward together. This 
cannot be the President's war. It has to be our country's fight against 
the jihadists wherever they go, and Iraq is one theater, and they want 
to fight us, and we need to defeat them. Let's meet together and send 
them back to their caves or into eternity so that our way of life is 
carried forward to the next generation.

This is a generational challenge. We can't deny from time to time in 
history you have to step up and these brave sons and daughters have 
done just that, and they have volunteered to serve. We honor their 
sacrifice, but please, House and Senate and country, come together and 
find a path forward as one Nation.