---
---

# HONORING MUHAMMAD ALI ON HIS 65TH BIRTHDAY
## `76e1406d88600dc4e6d8b982aa8f031b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 17 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 
58, which honors Muhammad Ali on the occasion of his 65th birthday. 
Muhammad Ali, who transformed the sport of boxing with his unparalleled 
physical gifts, social commentary, and poetry, is one of the world's 
most beloved athletes. Muhammad Ali has been a fixture on the world 
stage since the 1960, when he won the gold medal at the 1960 Olympics 
in Tokyo. He would go on to win such legendary bouts as ''The Rumble in 
the Jungle'' against George Foreman, and ''The Thrilla in Manila'' 
against ''Smoking Joe'' Frazier.

Since his retirement in 1981, Muhammad Ali has engaged in many 
humanitarian endeavors, including a 1990 journey to Iraq to negotiate 
the release of 15 hostages. Muhammad Ali may be out of the ring but 
interest in him has not waned, 3 billion television viewers around the 
world watched him light the torch that opened the Olympic Games in 
Atlanta in 1996. In 1984 Ali was stricken with Parkinson's disease. 
However true to form, Ali has not let his illness stop him from being 
free to do what he wants.

Never has a sports figure inspired so many people in so many 
different ways. Ali has shown that a sport can be more than 
entertainment; it can also be a cultural event with the power to change 
social values. Muhammad Ali is one of the most recognized sportsmen of 
all time. His legacy is one that inspires both in the ring and through 
his humanitarian work.

Outside of the ring Ali was a tremendously important figure and ally 
in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s. Ali refused to fight in the 
Vietnam War due to his religion and because he said, ''Ain't no Viet 
Cong done nothing to me.'' He has won countless awards for his 
humanitarian efforts, including the Medal of Freedom. If anyone is 
deserving of the accolades that are bestowed on him, Muhammad Ali is 
certainly that person.

The Muhammad Ali International Centre opened in Ali's home town of 
Louisville, Kentucky in November 2005. The Centre holds exhibits and 
provides learning initiatives. It was established to represent and 
promote the values by which Muhammad Ali has lived his life: 
confidence, dedication, respect, compassion, charity, and spirituality. 
It is hoped that the Centre will provide those that visit the 
enlightenment and ability to become the greatest they can be. Ali's 
wife Lonnie said of the initiative: ''the Muhammad Ali Centre is all 
about searching for common ground and establishing peace.''

On behalf of the citizens of the State of Texas and my constituents 
of the 18th congressional district I would like to join my colleagues 
in honoring Muhammad Ali, a global humanitarian, on the occasion of his 
65th birthday and extend best wishes to him and his family. Muhammad 
Ali reminds us all that ''learning to love yourself is the greatest 
love of all.''

Happy Birthday, champ! As you often said after your many victories, 
you are the ''Greatest of all time!''