---
---

# NATIONAL MONTH OF THE MILITARY CHILD
## `76e9e476cfc064f122a01439545d7b12`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 7 April 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I urge support for S. Res. 500, which 
honors military children. The children of our servicemen and women in 
the Armed Forces have been deeply affected by the invasion in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Thousands of children have lost a parent serving in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom, and tens of 
thousands more must deal with the daily pressure of their parents' 
deployment. Military children clearly deserve our support.

Even in times of peace, these children pay a high price as they are 
typically required to move to many new locations several times during 
their formative years. The Department of Defense agrees that these 
multiple moves can make it more difficult for military children to do 
well in school, form lasting relationships with peers and adults, or 
cope with emotional issues ranging from loneliness to anger to 
depression.

In spite of all the challenges facing military children, they 
persevere. Children attending Department of Defense schools continue to 
have some of the highest test scores in the country. They rank 8th or 
better in all categories in comparison to the states in every national 
test, and they rank first or second in all categories for African-
American and Hispanic students. Military children also have high school 
graduation and college enrollment rates significantly higher than the 
rest of the Nation's children. One study estimates that about 75 
percent of children who graduate from high school with one or both of 
their parents in the military go on to college. That's significantly 
higher than the national average of 67 percent.

These are all accomplishments to be proud of. Military children 
unquestionably deserve our support, and the resolution offered by 
Senator Bayh recognizes them and pays tribute to their commitment, 
sacrifice and unconditional support for their parents and


their country. These youth are the children of our national heroes and 
their perseverance, patriotism and achievements make them heroes in 
their own right.

Despite all the obstacles they face, military children continue to 
succeed. I commend Senator Bayh for his leadership in offering this 
important resolution and urge the Senate to support it.
