# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2009
## `76f513c938a642b574e1b5be1a6ef6b8`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, I told the President that when he does 
what we agree with, in terms of what is right for the American people, 
we would be there to support him. The President has made very 
responsible decisions with regard to this mission in Iraq and a gradual 
withdrawal of our troops, and I believe that his decisions with regard 
to his plans in Afghanistan are sound. It is clear that the President 
listened to the commanders on the ground and our diplomats and is 
engaged in an effort to win our battle against the terrorists who 
threaten the United States and our citizens.

One of those decisions that he also made was a decision to send up to 
the House a clean bill asking for funding for our troops. I believe 
this bill provides those resources and, just as importantly, does not 
include politically motivated restrictions that would hamstring our 
commanders in the field.

Republicans support the underlying bill, and I think it deserves 
support from Members on both sides of the aisle. But let's be very 
clear; we will be watching very closely in the weeks to come as some 
may try to load this bill up with unrelated spending or language that 
would undermine our troops. That includes potential money for the 
International Monetary Fund. That should be debated on its own merits, 
and not as part of a troop funding bill for our men and women who are 
in harm's way.

I am also pleased that the $80 million in funding to transfer 
Guantanamo prisoners from the United States was removed from this bill. 
It deserved to be removed. And I will once again ask a very important 
question: What is the administration's plan for those prisoners who are 
being held at our detention facility? Will they release or transfer 
them and allow them to come to American soil? I don't know of any 
community or neighborhood in America that would want them.

The language inserted by Chairman Obey in this bill on this issue, I 
think, is inadequate. It will do nothing more than to provide cover, 
pure and simple. And the fact is, there is nothing in this legislation 
that will keep Guantanamo terrorists out of America, nothing. And I 
think that we can and should do better.

Our solution is the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act. Our plan, I 
think, does what the American people overwhelmingly want. It ensures 
that those terrorists are not transferred or released into our 
communities, and Members on both sides of the aisle have spoken out 
against the release of those prisoners in our country.

The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wolf) offered similar language in 
the Appropriations Committee where it was defeated. I believe, as we 
get into the previous question on this rule, that we also defeat the 
previous question and allow the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wolf) to 
offer his language on this bill.

So I would encourage Members to vote ''no'' on the previous question. 
Let's have a fair and open debate on this issue and allow Members the 
opportunity to allow the House to work its will, but I understand that 
the underlying bill does, in fact, deserve our support.