# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `7732b146425876f875464a6a94c96ec8`
`Mr. WYDEN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I begin by commending Senator Conrad and 
Senator Gregg for doing an exceptionally good job bringing 
extraordinary professionalism and thoughtfulness to this debate, 
particularly because Chairman Conrad and Senator Gregg have focused on 
what are the big issues for this country. Relating to the domestic side 
of the budget--we all know the big international issue is Iraq--the big 
issues are taxes and health care. One of the most attractive parts of 
the Conrad budget is that it lays the foundation for this country to 
look at big fixes to our tax system and to health care.

If we listen to all the technical lingo that comes up over the course 
of this discussion--pay-go, firewalls, reserve funds; perhaps the staff 
director, who does such a terrific job, Mary Naylor, may know about 
some of the intricacies of these terms--it is a complicated world of 
''budgetese.'' What we do understand, however, are taxes and health 
care. The Bush tax cuts expire at the end of 2010. One of the reasons I 
support the Conrad budget is that it lays the foundation for meaningful 
tax reform. The Presiding Officer certainly hears this across the 
country: The tax system is broken. We now have three changes in the Tax 
Code for every working day. There have been more than 14,000 changes to 
the Tax Code since the last comprehensive tax reform. We are all 
getting ready to do our taxes again. Americans this spring will spend 
more money filling out tax forms than our Government spends on higher 
education. Senator Conrad has pointed out the problem of tax havens and 
tax scams. There is an opportunity, as a result of this budget, to come 
together in a bipartisan way and fix the tax system. We know what needs 
to be done.

First, we to have clear out all the clutter, the thousands and 
thousands of loopholes that have been added since the last tax reform 
effort. Second, we have to simplify the system. I have brought to the 
Chamber a one-page 1040 form that is in my fair flat tax legislation 
that I will be reintroducing, and I have had a number of good 
conversations with our friend from New Hampshire about it. This is a 
chance for Senators to work together in a bipartisan way. The people at 
Money Magazine, the financial magazine, took my 1040 form and filled 
out their taxes in 15 minutes. It will bring about a dramatic change in 
American taxation. So we clean out the clutter, make the system 
simpler, and then keep progressivity.

There is a model for the Senate to follow. Senator Gregg and I heard 
a bit about it in the Budget Committee. Senator Grassley and I heard a 
lot about it in the Finance Committee, when then-Chairman Grassley held 
hearings on tax reform during the last session. That is to take those 
principles I outlined--clear out the loopholes, hold


down the rates, simplify the system, and keep progressivity--and once 
again, because of this budget, fix American taxation in a bipartisan 
way.

It is worth noting that every witness who came before the Senate 
Finance Committee during the last session to talk about taxation said 
building on the principles of the 1986 Tax Reform Act were the way to 
go. Witnesses came to the Budget Committee earlier this year. They all 
said this was the right direction, to build on the principles of 1986. 
I have indicated to Senator Gregg--and I am interested in working with 
him; he was part of the discussions that took place in the Budget 
Committee--it is worth wrapping this subject up by way of saying the 
budget that is before us now, the Conrad budget. It allows for the 
Senate to come together in a bipartisan way to fix the tax system. This 
is eminently doable.

The President had a commission on taxation. My one-page 1040 form is 
30 lines long. The President's is 34 lines long. For purposes of 
Government work, the two are equivalent. Democrats and Republicans can 
come together on this, simplify the tax system, do what was done in 
1986 to clean out the clutter, hold down the rates, and keep 
progressivity so that everybody has a chance to get ahead.


We have heard a lot of talk about class warfare. I am sure the 
Presiding Officer hears a great deal about this topic as he travels 
around the country. What Americans want is a system that gives 
everybody the opportunity to get ahead. That is what we ought to be 
working on. That is what this budget allows.

In addition to taxes, this legislation allows for a bipartisan effort 
in this Congress to fix American health care, because of the reserve 
fund that is in the bill and constructive efforts that are going on in 
the Senate. In all deference to the Presiding Officer, the 
distinguished Senator from Illinois, and our other colleagues who are 
running for President of the United States, there is a feeling that 
this question of fixing American health care is something that will be 
dealt with in 2009. I am here to tell the Senate, I believe there is a 
good chance the Senate will come together in 2007. Five Democratic 
Senators and five Republican Senators sent a letter to the President, 
an important letter that involved both sides coming together. The 
Republicans who signed the letter said: If you are going to fix health 
care, you have to get everybody covered. If you don't get everybody 
covered, the costs for those who are uninsured get shifted to those who 
are insured. That is a statement about universal coverage. It is about 
100 percent coverage. Our colleague from South Carolina, Senator 
DeMint, and others, have some good ideas about how to accomplish that. 
Republicans moved in a way that is going to allow for a comprehensive 
bipartisan effort to fix health care. Democrats did as well because the 
Democrats who signed the letter said: We need to modernize the 
marketplace. We have a tax system for health care that made sense for 
the 1940s; it doesn't make sense for 2007. The Tax Code for health 
coverage disproportionately rewards the most wealthy and promotes 
inefficiency. That is how the Federal government is spending $250 
billion. The Democrats and Republicans came together and said: We want 
to work in a bipartisan way. Republican Senators such as Trent Lott and 
Mike Crapo and Bob Bennett and Jim DeMint and John Thune, Democrats 
such as Kent Conrad, Ken Salazar, Senator Cantwell, Senator Kohl, and 
myself said: With all due respect to our good friend from Illinois and 
our colleagues who are seeking the highest office in the land, we are 
going to do our best to fix health care in this Congress. We have an 
opportunity with our letter.

The Presiding Officer knows I have introduced S. 334, the Healthy 
Americans Act. When I introduced that bill, the CEO of Safeway stood 
with me, Steve Burd, with more than 200,000 employees, as did Andy 
Stern, the president of the Service Employees International Union, with 
almost 2 million members. Back in 1993 and 1994, business and labor 
were fighting each other. Now they are coming together. What a 
remarkable transition. In 1993, the business community said: We can't 
afford health care reform. In 2007, the business community is saying: 
We can't afford not to fix health care.

We have laid a bipartisan foundation in the Conrad budget for 
Democrats and Republicans to come together in this session to fix 
health care.

An issue came up as we were going forward on the reserve fund that 
highlights that while I think a comprehensive fix of American health 
care can be done, there are going to be challenges along the way. One 
of them is how to deal with the CHIP program, the program that helps 
our youngsters. There is great support on both sides of the aisle for 
the CHIP program. But there have been some in the Senate who have said: 
We have to do CHIP and health reform together. We have to do both 
together, and that is the way to approach it. The universal coverage 
legislation isn't quite ready to go. I am hopeful it will be ready 
before too long and that it will be bipartisan. The Conrad budget makes 
it possible for Senators to come together through a reserve fund for 
universal coverage.

I also want to make sure that the millions of youngsters who need 
health care now are not forced to wait. We should not deny those 
youngsters justice right now, when the need, as the distinguished 
Senator from Illinois knows, is so great.

What we said in the budget is that after SCHIP is resolved--and I 
hope it will be very shortly--and we meet those urgent needs of 
millions of youngsters, then we proceed to the question of bipartisan 
efforts to ensure there is comprehensive health reform.

Those are the two big issues of our time--tax reform and health 
care--that relate to the domestic side of the budget. The Conrad budget 
leaves space for Democrats and Republicans to come together and fix our 
tax system and fix American health care.

(Mr. BROWN assumed the Chair.)