---
---

# ESSAY BY MR. ANDREW O'ROUKE
## `773f644558664fd61ac2c3dd5232cf2a`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is my distinct pleasure to 
congratulate Mr. Andrew O'Rourke for his articulate essay on the impact 
of the recent mid-term elections on the current U.S. policy in Iraq. 
Andrew is a 20-year-old sophomore at the University of Marquette, where 
his studies have focused on communications, business, and political 
science courses. His hard work in school has resulted in good grades, 
and he plans on attending law school after gradation. I am truly 
impressed by his insights, as well as the quality of his work.

Andrew's essay encapsulates much of the frustration with America's 
direction that has been felt by my constituents in the First District 
of Indiana. His essay also expresses the desire for positive change in 
America. Andrew compels his readers to think hard about what this 
country means to them. He writes of the pitfalls of shortsightedness in 
foreign policy, as well as the importance of protecting our civil 
liberties here at home. Finally, he calls on the need for 
bipartisanship in order to form a strong-willed consensus for the road 
ahead.

Madam Speaker, Andrew O'Rourke is an example of the great potential 
exhibited by the young people of northwest Indiana. Below, you will 
find the text of his essay, which I would like to have included in the 
Congressional Record. At this time, I ask that you and all of my 
distinguished colleagues join me in commending Andrew O'Rourke for his 
well-written essay. I wish him continued success in all his endeavors.



 While Democrats are better equipped now to make some 


 difference in President Bush's foreign policy, no force will 


 be able to influence the President more than a united 


 Republican thrust in favor of U.S. troop withdrawal.



 President Bush has proved rather stubborn on the subject of 


 his foreign policy, specifically the aspects of said policy 


 pertaining to Iraq and well, the entire Middle East in 


 general. Despite the sweeping restructuring of the House and 


 Senate during the mid-term elections, President Bush appears 


 still to have no intent on altering the current policy in 


 Iraq. An excerpt from a recent New York Times editorial 


 summarizes my argument quite well. The like-minded author of 


 this article believes that the President, ''for all of his 


 professed pipe dreams about democracy in the Middle East, 


 refuses to surrender to democracy's verdict at home.''



 It seems an indictment of our system, supposedly the best 


 in the world, that a mid-term election could serve the 


 umbrella purpose of a referendum on one specifically 


 controversial and pivotal policy, only to have




 the said election results have absolutely no effect on the 


 policy. That does not fit the definition of representative 


 democracy I was raised to believe in since grade school. 


 Elected officials do not possess the right to represent the 


 people when and if they chose, as though they know best. We 


 do not live under a benevolent dictator, where the power of 


 decision is placed in the hands of a ruler whom we must trust 


 to make a conclusion we are otherwise deemed incapable of 


 making ourselves. Nor do we live in a country where the 


 wealthy elite enjoy all of the authority, sending young men 


 and women of the poor and middle classes off to become maimed 


 Purple Heart veterans and dead Medal of Honor heroes, 


 fighting in an utterly fruitless quagmire of a war. 


 Especially of late however, the aforementioned possibilities 


 seem likely explanations for the current shameful, stubborn, 


 and painfully simplistic foreign policy utilized by our great 


 nation, with its outrageously gigantic economy, 


 technologically superior mechanized army, and not to forget, 


 insatiable thirst for pure, unadulterated, according-to-hoyle 


 victory. Although many would love to believe such a naive, 


 black-and-white definition of victory, sadly like most things 


 in this world it is not that simple. Victory is a word that, 


 for every conceivable variable, from the largest, most holy 


 mosque destroyed by American artillery fire to the youngest 


 Iraqi girl whose parents were brutally murdered by either a 


 Sunni or Shiite deathsquad, has numerous definitions. You 


 cannot limit yourself to one characterization of what victory 


 is, for that is a direct route to complete failure and 


 disappointment, as we see everyday on CNN, when we are told 


 the story of another Joe Everyman 21-year-old private-first 


 class from anywhere USA who was killed on a humvee patrol 


 mission aimed at securing the other ninety-five percent of 


 Iraq not secured over three years ago when we triumphantly 


 declared mission accomplished, and were immediately showered 


 with flowers by the Iraqi people. And to those within this 


 country who believe that to withdraw will be a crushing blow 


 against American pride and standing in the world, expound 


 such blind patriotism when it is your son or daughter 


 walking the streets of Baghdad with no idea whether the 


 next street corner will be populated by a nearly invisible 


 IED, exactly like those that have crippled so many young, 


 promise-filled Americans, or one of the many deceivingly 


 well-hidden snipers who make steady sport of firing 


 potshots from a spire outside of an untouchably holy 


 Mosque, hitting our young men and women when they least 


 expect it. It is for these American heroes that I, along 


 with most Americans must hope President Bush's current 


 policy is a success.



 Because I know in my heart of hearts that this 


 administration is too prideful to consider taking a hint from 


 the American people, or the 9/11 Commission, or the Iraq 


 Study Group, I am forced to cheer for any alternative to the 


 current policy of ''stay the course'' while simultaneously 


 hoping that the abovementioned ''course staying'' rises like 


 the Phoenix from the ashes and succeeds. If Mr. Bush's 


 strategy is a success, which it appears as though, barring 


 some unforeseen circumstance, it most definitely will not be, 


 it will be a victory for the American fighting man and woman, 


 because until the next pre-emptive war, they will be safe. 


 But will the next be somewhere in Asia, Northern Africa, or 


 most likely the Middle East yet again? Iran and Syria both 


 seem hell bent on becoming America's Tour of the Arab World 


 stops two and three.



 Most likely it will take Republican pressure and lots of it 


 to revise in any way the single-minded policy of this 


 administration. Nevertheless, it is a heartrending day for 


 democracy when the resounding message of the American people 


 is deemed secondary to the egocentric and stubborn strategy 


 of a few white men (and black woman) who call a giant, white, 


 house on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington D.C. their office.



 To reiterate an earlier point, the leaders of this nation 


 are not free to choose what is in our best interest, when we 


 the people have clearly and resoundingly spoken against the 


 current ideals and strategies. The current policy quite 


 simply costs too many Americans and Iraqis their lives 


 without a foreseeable goal or proverbial light at the end of 


 the tunnel. Rather, they have a solemn obligation to 


 represent the views of the people of this country. But who 


 knows? Maybe a benevolent dictator would make things a whole 


 lot easier for most people in this country. Who likes freedom 


 anyways?
