---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `774ca27659fdac21df402ef09bd0764d`
`Mr. HILL — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, our brave men and women in Iraq have answered 
every call, accomplished every task, won every battle. Our brave men 
and women in Iraq have fought valiantly. They have executed their 
mission with quiet dignity and with honor that is worthy of our praise.

In looking back at all that our military has done, there has been no 
task that these brave men and women have not accomplished. They have 
risen to every occasion. However, we are not here today just to applaud 
our troops' performance. We are here today to ask if the surge 
direction that the President is taking us is the right direction for 
these brave troops. Is it the right direction for our country, and is 
it the right direction for the people of Iraq? The answer is 
unequivocally ''no.''

For the last 4 years of this conflict, the President has relied on 
the judgment of his military to execute this war and to follow their 
advice. Now at this critical hour, he has chosen to ignore their 
expertise and advice. The Joint Chiefs have unanimously disagreed with 
the surge.

General James Conway, commander of the Marine Corps, is quoted as 
saying, ''We do not believe that just adding numbers for the sake of 
adding numbers, just thickening the mix, is necessarily the way to 
go.''

General John Abizaid has met with every divisional commander and 
asked, ''If we were to bring more American troops now, does it add 
considerably to our ability to achieve success?'' They all said ''no.''

General Colin Powell has said the surge will not work. General Wesley 
Clark, Ambassador Holbrooke, Oliver North, Michael Vicker, Lawrence 
Corb, Richard Haas, have all said the surge will not work. And the list 
goes on and on and on.

Why does the President, Mr. Speaker, choose to ignore expert after 
expert, soldier after soldier, who say the surge will not work? Even 
General Petraeus has said, and I quote, ''The way ahead will be neither 
quick nor easy, and undoubtedly there will be tough days. We have a 
determined, adaptive barbaric enemy. He will try to wait us out. Any 
such endeavor is a test of wills and there are no guarantees.''

Mr. Speaker, former Secretary of State James Baker has said, ''There 
is no magic bullet to solve the problem of Iraq. No single answer. No 
quick fix.'' From this microphone over the last 2 days, my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle have tried to frame this debate about 
success and failure in Iraq.

That debate is for another day. Today and tomorrow, the debate is 
about the wisdom or the lack of wisdom for the surge. The President and 
the members of his party today need to listen to the experts who they 
have relied upon in the past. To do otherwise, casts doubts about who 
the President is listening to.

Mr. Speaker, I firmly believe that this surge in the troops is the 
wrong policy at the wrong time, in the wrong war. The actions that need 
to be taken to help the Iraqi people and ultimately bring our brave men 
and women home safely is not as simple as rushing more troops to the 
front lines.

Mr. Speaker, a while ago I heard my good friend and colleague from 
Indiana speak about how the Iraq Study Group actually said that a surge 
is something that probably is necessary.

But there is more to the story than just a military surge. They also 
recommended that there has to be economic surge, and diplomatic surges, 
not just military. I talked to one of the Iraq study members just 
yesterday, who told me that a military surge by itself will not work.

The military has done all it can do, and they have done it very well. 
Now is the time to move in a different direction, Mr. Speaker. Vote for 
this resolution. Vote ''no'' to the surge.