# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `774d88cba657ceb60c8227cd444326e8`
`Mr. BUYER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

There was a peculiar comment a bit ago from the gentleman from Ohio 
when he said, well, I didn't call you unpatriotic when you sent troops 
into battle and they didn't have their up-armored Humvees. What a weird 
statement to say.

You see, we prepare our force. So, for example, when myself and 
Colonel Phillips in the first Gulf War, those Hummers that we took in, 
they didn't even have doors on them. We didn't have doors on the side 
of those. We didn't go in with all the side plates and front plates, 
groin plates, neck plates, shoulder plates. We didn't do all that. Most 
of that, the body armor, was reserved for special ops. When you move in 
to counterinsurgency and then the enemy begins to use roadside bombs to 
attack our Hummers, what do we have to do? We respond. That is why I 
made the comment of what does our military do? They improvise, they 
adapt and they overcome, and that is exactly the same thing which our 
enemies do. So it was a very peculiar comment to say, well, we didn't 
attack you because. I don't know. It's so peculiar, I don't even want 
to comment anymore on it.

What I would like to comment on is the nature of the enemy and the 
significance of Iraq and the global war against militant Islamists.

Mr. Speaker, at this time I would like to turn our attention to the 
nature of the enemy we face and the significance of Iraq in the global 
war against militant Islam. We often use the term ''global war on 
terrorism'' to describe our efforts since the September 11 attacks. I 
believe this is a misnomer. In reality, we are engaged in a campaign to 
counter a global, radical Islamist insurgency, a global jihad. This 
global insurgency is, in fact, a diverse confederation of Islamic 
movements that uses terrorism as only one of its many tactics in their 
war against the West.

On February 23, 1998, Osama bin Laden, leader of al Qaeda, declared 
war on the United States, Israel and the West in his statement ''World 
Islamic Front Declaration of War against Jews and Crusaders.'' 
Subsequently, bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, issued a statement 
after September 11 announcing a two-phase strategy for al Qaeda's war. 
First, reestablish the Islamic Caliphate, the historical and temporal 
authority of all Muslims that existed from 632 A.D. until 1924 A.D, 
and, second, use the Caliphate as a launch pad for a jihad against the 
West.

No one believes that Osama bin Laden directly controls this worldwide 
insurgency. Rather than a single monolithic movement, al Qaeda is but 
one movement that symbolizes a broad and diverse confederation of 
militant Islamic movements that operate around the world. This 
insurgency includes such wide-ranging organizations as the Egyptian 
Islamic Jihad, the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, the Islamic Army of 
Aden, al Qaeda in Iraq, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, the Abu 
Sayyaf Group in Malaysia and the Philippines. In addition, Iran, a 
majority Shia country, backs numerous radical Islamic groups, including 
Hezbollah and Palestine rejectionist groups such as Hamas and the 
Palestinian Islamic Jihad. These wide-ranging and disparate groups are 
loosely linked ideologically, linguistically and culturally. They use 
family ties, personal relationships and financial links to coordinate 
their efforts. Thus, the global jihad plays out in a variety of 
theaters around the world. These include:

The Americas, where in North America we saw the September 11 attacks 
and as a House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence report 
stated, Federal authorities have shut down at least 25 charities 
contributing to terrorist activities since September 11. That is here 
in our own country.

In South America there is a strong al Qaeda presence in the tri-
border area of Argentina, Paragiau and Brazil.

In Western Europe, where there have been recently uncovered plans for 
attacks against Great Britain and the United States and where insurgent 
financial networks and planning cells flourish throughout Europe 
supporting insurgent activities.

In the Southern Pacific, where the Bali bombings in October 2002 were 
attributed to an al Qaeda-linked cell.

In the Ibernian Peninsula and North Africa where North Africans were 
blamed for the May 2004 Madrid bombings and where there have been 
bombings in Casablanca, Morocco and Tunisia.

In the greater Middle East, where there are ongoing Islamic 
insurgencies in Iraq, Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Turkey, 
Lebanon and Israel/Palestine.

In East Africa, where simultaneous bombings in October 1998 in Kenya 
and Tanzania were coordinated from the Sudan.

The Caucuses and European Russia, where nationalist insurgencies in 
Chechnya, Georgia, and Azerbaijan have been co-opted by Islamic 
militants.

South and Central Asia, where the Taliban and al Qaeda continue to 
operate in Afghanistan and in Pakistan's federally administered tribal 
areas.

And in Southeast Asia, where Islamic insurgencies continue in 
Indonesa, the Philippines and southern Thailand.

These Islamic insurgencies share a common goal. They are oriented 
toward the overthrow of the current world order and its replacement 
with a pan-Islamic Caliphate. They wish to change the status quo using 
violence and subversion in order to initiate a clash between Islam and 
the West. They use terrorism, subversion and propaganda to further 
their goals and initiate open warfare.

It will come as no surprise that most of the active Islamic 
insurgencies take place either within the historical bounds of the 
Caliphate, meaning North Africa, Spain, Turkey and the Middle East, or 
in areas claimed by the new broader pan-Islamic Caliphate, South Asia, 
Southeast Asia and Indonesia. These insurgencies contribute to what is 
called an arc of instability that reaches from Indonesia across South 
Asia and the Middle East to North Africa.

Where does Iraq fit into this global jihad? Iraq has become the front 
line in the open warfare of the global insurgency. In many ways, Iraq 
is a microcosm of the complex worldwide Islamic


insurgency. The centrality of Iraq to the insurgency became clear in a 
July 2005 letter to the late Abu Musab al-Zarqawi from al Qaeda's 
deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri. In discussing Iraq, Zawahiri stated:

''I want to be the first to congratulate you for what God has blessed 
you with in terms of fighting battle in the heart of the Islamic world, 
which was formerly the field for major battles in Islam's history, and 
what is now the place for the greatest battle of Islam in this era.''

Zawahiri went on to outline the larger strategy for Iraq. First, 
expel the Americans from Iraq. Second, establish an Islamic authority 
and reestablish the Caliphate. Third, extend the jihad neighboring 
secular Islamic countries. Fourth, eliminate Israel. Thus we see a 
clear statement from the number two man in al Qaeda that Iraq is 
centrally important to the global jihad.

Al Qaeda is not alone in operating in Iraq. There have been extensive 
Iranian involvement that has been alleged recently. On March 14, 2006, 
General John Abizaid told the Senate Armed Services Committee that 
''Iran is pursuing a multitrack policy in Iraq, consisting of covertly 
supporting the formation of a stable, Shia Islamist-led central 
government while covertly working to diminish popular and military 
support for U.S. and Coalition operations there.''

While the full extent of Iranian support is unknown, it appears that 
at a minimum Iran is supporting the 20,000-man Badr Brigade as well as 
the 2,000-man Wolf Brigade which is an offshoot. Just this week, 
administration officials announced that Iran was the source of deadly 
explosive form projectiles being used in Iraq.

Iraqis also grasp that Iraq is central in this global struggle. Iraqi 
Prime Minister Maliki told us here in a joint session of Congress, ''I 
know that some of you here question whether Iraq is part of that war on 
terror, but let me be very clear. This is a battle between true Islam, 
for which a person's liberty and rights constitute essential 
cornerstones, and that of terrorism, which wraps itself in a fake 
Islamic cloak.''

The centrality of Iraq in the larger global Islamic insurgency cannot 
be disputed. Our enemies and our friends in the region grasp its 
significance. To fail in Iraq is to fail in the larger struggle. And 
our enemies are watching. They remember what America did not grasp the 
scope of the threat posed by radical Islam. Yet the signals were there:

In 1979, 66 American diplomats taken hostage, held in Iran for 444 
days.

In 1983, a truck bomb kills 241 Marines at their barracks in Beirut.

In 1988, Pan Am flight 103 bombing kills 270, including 189 
Americans, over Lockerbie, Scotland.

In 1993, six killed at the first World Trade Center bombing by 
militant Islamic terrorists.

In 1996, 19 U.S. servicemembers were killed at Khobar Towers.

In 1998, 225 people killed in bombings at our U.S. embassies in 
Tanzania and Kenya.

In 2000, al Qaeda's attack on the destroyer USS Cole kills 17 
American sailors.

In 2001, September 11, killed 2,973.

Until 2001, we failed to properly react to this threat. The enemy 
perceived us as weak and believed that we lacked the will to fight.

This resolution before us, if approved, will signal our lack of 
resolve and I am troubled. It will be interpreted, I believe, by the 
forces of the global jihad that the United States lacks the will to 
persevere against the forces of radical Islam. It will give comfort to 
their thoughts, for they will know that we in Congress are uncertain 
and irresolute. In a war where information and willpower are more 
important than firepower, we must continue to send the signal that we 
cannot and will not cease to fight the enemy's vision of the world. You 
see, even if you have your way and you say we are going to withdraw the 
troops, whether they come back to the United States or whether they go 
to an over-the-horizon position and this new infancy government fails, 
we cannot cower to the security of America. This front continues.

The Bible states, ''If the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who 
shall prepare himself to the battle?'' If the trumpet is uncertain, who 
will follow? This resolution, I think, sends the wrong signal to our 
friends and to our enemies and I urge my colleagues to support those 
troops, sound the certain trumpet, and defeat the resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.