---
---

# None
## `775660c4dfa621f07e1c6ec0fdf8bc97`
`Mr. OBEY — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I won't take the 5 minutes. But let me say 
that I find it rather humorous that our good friends on the other side 
of the aisle would utter not one peep when this President decides to 
spend over $600 billion on a war in Iraq which he misled the country 
into, which he didn't have a clue of how to get out of, and now he's 
asking us to make a commitment that will lead over the next 20 years to 
the expenditure of at least $1 trillion more for that same misguided 
cause. Not a peep; most of their buttons wired right to the White 
House, wired right to Karl Rove's desk.

And yet, it's the same crowd that will then make a Federal case out 
of the fact that when we cut the President's budget for foreign aid we 
didn't cut it quite enough. And so they're making a Federal case out of 
one-half of 1 percent.

My good friend, Archie the Cockroach observed once, ''Remember the 
importance of proportion. Of what use is it for a queen bee to fall in 
love with a bull?''

Think about it. If you do, you'll realize just how silly and 
misguided this debate is, because this is a crowd who spent willingly 
$600 billion on the most damaging war in recent American history, and 
yet are now objecting to the President's request to fund a bill which 
is traditionally meant to repair our relationships around the world and 
to pay a little bit of the cost of citizenship on a planet where many 
millions of people are a whole lot less fortunate than we are.

I'm also amused by the fact that we hear a constant cry from the 
other side of the aisle, ''We need bipartisanship. Politics ends at the 
water's edge.'' And then when we try to demonstrate a little 
bipartisanship by giving the President most of what he asked, but not 
all, we then get the White House complaining because we've cut this 
bill too deeply, and we get their supporters in this House crying that 
we didn't cut it deeply enough. I get whiplash trying to follow the 
direction of a party that is that schizophrenic.

So with all due respect, we understand that this is a marginal 
debate. It is a debate ginned up to try to find any excuse whatsoever 
to bring down this bill.

It's not going to do it. Let's get on with the public's business. 
Let's be responsible. Let's reject this amendment.