---
---

# HONORING 111TH FIGHTER WING
## `77585249d6c61ecb6c98cc857704cac5`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 20 July 2010`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 1411, as 
amended, which honors the service and commitment of the 111th Fighter 
Wing, Pennsylvania Air National Guard. I would like to thank the 
gentlelady from Pennsylvania for introducing this resolution.

I am honored to pay tribute to the current and former Members of the 
111th Fighter Wing who have steadfastly and courageously defended and 
served this great country on our shores and in distant lands.

With roots that date back to the 103rd Observation Squadron, 
operating out of the Philadelphia Airport, the unit first saw action in 
World War II patrolling for submarines off the east coast of the United 
States. The squadron then deployed to the China-Burma-India theater to 
support the war operations there.

A second parent organization, the 391st Bombardment Group (Medium), 
earned the Distinguished Unit Citation for its service in the European 
Theater in support of the Normandy invasion and the Battle of the 
Bulge.

Later designated the 111th Composite Wing, the unit supported the war 
effort in Korea, and as the 111th Air Transport Group the members flew 
numerous airlift missions to support military operations during the war 
in Vietnam.

More recently, the 111th Fighter Wing has participated in Operation 
Southern Watch in Kuwait, supporting joint combat flight operations. 
During Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi 
Freedom in Iraq, the 111th has directly supported coalition ground 
troops despite extreme conditions and at times unremitting enemy 
shelling.




Madam Speaker, I would also like to read into the Record today the 
aircraft flown and operated, maintained, armed, and fought with during 
the proud history of this group. Just the names of these airplanes will 
invoke memories and wonderful nostalgic feelings about some of them 
just by saying their names out loud.

The 111th Fighter Wing has flown the JN-4 Jenny, PT-1 Trusty, the BT-
1, the Curtiss 0-1 Falcon, the Douglas 0-2H, the Curtiss 0-11 Falcon, 
the Douglas 0-38, the North American 0-47A and 0-47B, the Stinson 0-49 
Vigilant, the Curtiss 0-52 Owl, the Taylorcraft 0-57 Grasshopper, the 
Piper L-4 Grasshopper, the Stinson L-1B Vigilant, the Lockheed P-38 
Lightning, the Douglas A-26 Invader, the Boeing RB-29 Superfortress, 
the North American F-51 Mustang, the Lockheed T-33 Shooting Star, the 
Republic F-84 Thunderjet, the Lockheed F-94 Starfire, the Northrop F-89 
Scorpion, the Boeing C-97 Stratofreighter, the Cessna U-3A Blue Canoe, 
the Cessna 0-2 Skymaster, the Cessna OA-37 Dragonfly, and the Fairchild 
A-10 Thunderbolt II.

Madam Speaker, I would be remiss if I did not pay tribute today to 
the incredible families of these brave airmen who waited at home while 
their loved ones answered our Nation's call.

The entire Nation joins the citizens of Pennsylvania to say thank you 
to the members and the veterans of the 111th Fighter Wing Pennsylvania 
Air National Guard. We are all proud of their service and, therefore, 
Madam Speaker, I strongly urge Members to support this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.