---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `7759efb68391d6f0edd76fe05d6ea7d2`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank my friend for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, I would just respond to my friend from New Jersey in 
this way: It says that you can't plan for a major contingency. I am 
looking at scenarios, and if you have a scenario where you have convoys 
of IED material being moved from Iran into Iraq and you want to send a 
team over and make a strike and close a canyon or close a mountain pass 
or hit that convoy with a major strike, I think many people would 
classify that as a major action, a major contingency.



So I think that we blurred the line here in that we may have to take 
what I would consider and many Members here would consider to be major 
contingencies. The problem is, you have to take those things very 
quickly.

This war against terror is an era when time is truly of the essence, 
when hours are important, when minutes are important, when days are 
important. The idea we have to come back, if you have got to close a 
pass to keep IEDs that are killing Americans in Iraq from going across 
that line, we have to come back and get permission from Congress to do 
that, I think that is not a good advertisement or a good statement of 
impunity to communicate to the other side, where they think they now 
have an insulation between an immediate reaction by American Armed 
Forces.

That is the essence of our resistance to this amendment, and I think 
it is still very solid.