# CONSOLIDATED SECURITY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE, AND CONTINUING
## `7767d72b57f414b3d64fd83e08577b36`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, it is encouraging that Congress today 
passed the Wartime Enforcement of Fraud Act of 2008 as part of the 
Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing 
Appropriations Act. This is a modest but important commonsense measure 
that will help restore accountability and deter fraud in the many 
billions of dollars worth of contracts in connection with the two wars 
we continue to fight.

The failed legacy of the Bush administration is clearer today than 
ever before, as our Nation faces unprecedented crises at home and 
abroad. The financial markets are in turmoil as a result of 
mismanagement of the economy and neglect of the regulatory process that 
helps maintain confidence in the market. Americans are losing their 
homes to foreclosure at record rates. Our country remains mired in 
Iraq, fighting a war that President Bush should never has started, that 
continues to cost too many lives and billions of dollars each month, 
with no end in sight.

As part of this legacy, the Bush administration has further failed to 
meet one of its most important obligations during wartime--to protect 
American taxpayers from losses due to fraud and corruption in war 
contracting. Fraud and corruption in contracting are all too common in 
times of war, and these problems have been particularly pervasive in 
Iraq.

New reports just this week have confirmed that corruption and fraud 
have robbed billions from the American taxpayers during the Iraq war. 
The former chief investigator of the Iraqi Commission on Public 
Integrity, Salam Adhoob, testified before Congress this week that $9 
billion in U.S. taxpayer funds have been lost to corruption and fraud 
in Iraq.

Mr. Adhoob described how senior Iraqi defense officials set up 
fraudulent front companies that were supposed to buy airplanes, armored 
vehicles, and guns with $1.7 billion in U.S. funds. But these companies 
failed to deliver most of the military equipment, and what they did 
provide was mostly junk, including defective ammunition and unsafe 
bulletproof vests. These companies also overcharged for military 
helicopters and aircraft, delivering useless decades-old equipment. 
Most of the money ended up in German bank accounts controlled by these 
Iraqi defense officials.

The Iraqi chief investigator prepared a full report based on this 
investigation, and thousands of others, and submitted the documentation 
to the Iraqi government, as well as to U.S. investigators. Yet so far, 
neither the Bush administration nor the Iraqi government has taken 
action in these cases. Instead, the Iraqi government has passed laws 
giving immunity to many of its corrupt officials, and the U.S. 
investigators have too often stalled trying to find witnesses and 
review documents in the midst of a war zone.

These examples of fraud and corruption are not isolated, or new. Over 
the past 2 years, I have chaired hearings in the Appropriations and 
Judiciary Committees focused on the billions of dollars that have been 
lost to contracting fraud, waste, and abuse during this war. The 
testimony at those hearings has also exposed the Bush administration's 
failure to take aggressive action to enforce and punish wartime fraud. 
These hearings have shown how difficult it can be for investigators to 
uncover and prosecute fraud amidst the chaotic environment of war.

These persistent problems have been made worse by the Bush 
administration's use of ''no-bid'' and ''cost-plus'' contracts that 
have been awarded with little, if any, oversight or accountability. 
Billions in cash--physical, paper money--have been flown to Iraq and 
handed out in paper bags, often without records of who received what, 
and when. Billion-dollar contracts for training services cannot be 
audited because the records are incomplete, lost, or in disarray. As a 
result, time and time again, the government has paid for services that 
were never needed or never provided and for equipment that was too 
often substandard or actually defective.

But as we found again this week, too often we do not learn about 
wartime fraud and corruption until years after the fact. What we do 
know is that billions of dollars are unaccounted for, and likely lost 
to war profiteers and corrupt officials. Fraud investigators from the 
offices of several inspectors general, as well as the Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, are working to figure out where the money has gone and 
who has taken it. But they have told us it will take a long time, in 
some cases years, to figure out exactly what has happened with the 
billions of dollars in fraud related to war contracts.

In the meantime, the statute of limitations that bars Federal fraud 
prosecutions after 5 years threatens to make this work meaningless and 
essentially immunize those who are responsible. The wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have gone on for far more than five years, and with each 
passing day, we are losing the authority to prosecute fraud committed 
early on in the wars. As time passes, we are effectively granting 
immunity to these criminals and letting them get away with taxpayers' 
money.

I introduced the Wartime Enforcement of Fraud Act of 2008 to correct 
this problem once and for all. Passage of this legislation today is an 
important step forward to make sure all those who have committed fraud 
will be held to account. Put simply, this bill will give the government 
more time to continue investigating these massive wartime frauds and, 
in time, this provision should save American taxpayers untold millions 
and help punish those responsible for the fraud.

Our country has faced this same problem in past wars and taken 
similar action. During World War II, President Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt spoke out against ''war millionaires'' who made excessive 
profits exploiting the calamity of war. President Harry Truman, when he 
served in the Senate, held historic public hearings to expose gross 
fraud and waste by military contractors during the war.

In 1942, President Roosevelt signed the Wartime Suspension of 
Limitations


Act, which made it possible for criminal fraud offenses against the 
United States to be prosecuted after the war was over. President Truman 
made that law permanent in 1948.

Everyone understood then that it was unrealistic to believe that all 
wartime fraud could be tracked down immediately in the midst of a war. 
The law provided an extension of the statute of limitations until the 
war was over. Congress supported this law overwhelmingly, as they had 
with a similar provision during World War I. President Roosevelt wrote:




 The crisis of war should not be used as a means of avoiding 


 just penalties for wrongdoing.


Unfortunately, this Roosevelt-era law does not appear to apply to the 
ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Current law only applies 
''when the United States is at war,'' but the military operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan were undertaken without formal declarations of 
war. As a result, this law technically does not apply to these ongoing 
conflicts.

This bill simply amends current law to make clear that extending the 
statute of limitations during wartime applies to the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. In doing so, we will give investigators and auditors the 
time necessary to continue their efforts to uncover the wartime frauds 
and prosecute those who are responsible. Without this bill, fraudulent 
conduct by war contractors and corrupt officials will go unpunished, 
and the government will have no ability to recover taxpayer money lost 
to these criminals.

The statute of limitations is an important check on the proper use of 
government power, and we should suspend it only in extraordinary 
circumstances. Wars provide exactly such circumstances, as Congress and 
Presidents have recognized in the past. It would be wrong to exempt the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan from this common sense law, and passage of 
this bill will close that loophole for the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, 
as well as any future wars.

With passage of this bill today, Congress has taken action, as it has 
in the past, to protect the American taxpayer and make sure the money 
spent to support the troops is not wasted through fraud and corruption. 
The President should now sign this bill to show the American people 
that we will do all we can to investigate and prosecute those who would 
undermine our troops and steal from the taxpayer during times of war.