---
---

# None
## `7769bb8d852748aea7960471be4e7cf1`
`Mr. DORGAN — 23 September 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, this afternoon we will vote on energy tax 
extenders or tax incentives for renewable energy. I wanted to make a 
comment about the importance of this legislation. I believe this will 
be our tenth vote to try to extend the tax incentives for renewable 
energy. It has been previously blocked nine times, which is almost 
unbelievable to me.

But at a time when we face a very severe energy problem in this 
country, and when we need to incentivize and begin developing 
additional renewable sources of energy to make us less dependant on 
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Venezuela, Iraq, at a time when we need to be 
less dependent and produce other kinds of energy, we have been blocked 
in extending these energy tax credits. It makes no sense at all to me.

If you are going to address the energy problem in this country, we 
need to do a lot of things. We need to conserve more. Yes, we need to 
drill more, and we need much greater energy efficiency. We need to do a 
whole lot of things, but this country needs to move ahead with respect 
to renewable energy on a much more aggressive path.

A substantial amount of energy comes every day from the Sun, and we 
use precious little of it. A substantial amount of energy is available 
from the wind, and we use too little of it.

How does this compare to other energy resources? Now, here is what we 
have done in the past for those who look for oil and gas. In 1916 this 
country said: If you are searching for oil and gas, we are going to 
give you a big fat set of tax breaks, because we want you to find oil 
and gas. That has existed for nearly 100 years, those tax incentives 
for those who search for oil and gas. Contrast that with what we have 
done for those who want to proceed with renewable energy such as wind 
and solar.

In 1992, we put in place the production tax credit. These were short-
term and rather shallow tax incentives. They have been extended short 
term five times. They have been allowed to expire three times. We have 
seen projects to put up new wind turbines and new solar projects put on 
the shelf because these tax incentives have been in a start-stop, 
stutter step approach. It makes no sense. It is a pathetic, anemic 
response.

This country should be saying: Here is where we are headed for the 
next decade. For the next decade you can


count on this. We are going to develop wind resources and solar energy 
all across the country that will make us less dependent on Saudi 
Arabia, Kuwait, and others. That is what this country should do.

We have had great difficulty getting a 1-year extension from these 
production tax credit for wind energy, as an example until December 31 
next year. I am going to celebrate today, if we pass this legislation. 
I believe we will. It is an achievement, but it is not a giant step 
forward. It is a baby step in the right direction because we have been 
blocked nine times by the minority from passing this legislation during 
this Congress. My hope is that today, finally, we will get it done and 
get this finally sent back to the House and to the President for 
signature.

We have had a lot of time on the floor of the Senate in recent weeks, 
a lot of wringing of hands, mopping of brows and gnashing of teeth 
about energy. This country's economy runs on energy. Sixty-five percent 
of the oil we use comes from overseas. We are unbelievably dependent on 
foreign sources of energy. How do we overcome that dependence to make 
us less vulnerable? We can do that by producing more here, which means 
drilling and by substantial amounts of conservation. We are prodigious 
users of energy, and we waste a lot. So while we produce more, we need 
to conserve more too. In everything we use every single day, from the 
time we turn the light switch on in the morning, to all of our 
appliances like refrigerators, air-conditioners, dishwashers, and more, 
we must make them more efficient. Many of these machines are more 
efficient now than they were in terms of all appliances. But we can 
impose even greater standards and create greater efficiency. So 
production, conservation, and efficiency--all are elements of an 
important national energy program.

I believe most important is the decision to pursue renewable energy. 
We do it with ethanol by taking alcohol from corn and extending our 
energy supply. We do it with biodiesel too. We do it with a range of 
areas. Especially in the area of biomass, wind, solar, and geothermal 
energy, there is such great potential. We have had so much difficulty 
providing certainty about where America is going to head with renewable 
energy.

I have introduced legislation saying we ought to do this for a full 
decade. We ought to say to the world, to investors and businessmen and 
women: Here is where America is headed. You can count on it. We will 
produce a lot of energy from renewable sources. We will maximize the 
opportunity to receive energy from the Sun. We have some projects that 
are interesting, but we have fallen far behind on solar energy. We are 
not anywhere near where we ought to be in producing solar energy. We 
are not near where we can be in producing energy from the wind. We have 
unbelievable turbines now that are much more powerful. They can take 
energy from the wind and use that energy to extend America's energy 
supply.

This is a very important vote, but it is only a small step forward in 
the right direction. It needs to be followed by a much larger step that 
tells the world where America is going. Yes, we will drill, conserve, 
all those things, but this country needs to decide that we want 
substantial amounts of additional renewable energy to make this economy 
less dependent on Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq and Venezuela. They 
provide us energy that comes from off our shores. Using more renewable 
energy and using this energy wisely are very important elements to 
sustain our country's economic strength and opportunity in the future.

I yield the floor.