---
---

# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `777fb6cd42b1a025806c35cca38b8214`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. You're starting us off on a bad note.

It's good to be here this evening and to engage in conversation and 
dialogue certainly on the situation that we are in today in Iraq, and 
certainly in this country.

I want to deviate just a little bit and talk a little bit about my 
study hall period. Folks say that Members of Congress had recess. When 
I was in school and we had recess, we played most of the time; but I 
can assure you for the last several weeks of the month of August I did 
a lot of traveling in the district I represent, listening to a lot of 
people, the chamber of commerce, business people, individuals on the 
street, country stores, wherever I might have been, restaurants, coffee 
shops. We talked about a lot of things. People are worried about the 
war in Iraq. People are worried about the war in Iraq to the point 
where we know we can't lose there or we can't allow this nation to go 
into anarchy, but how do we prevent that from happening?

And as I listened to those debates and those dialogs, I realized that 
people were seriously concerned about what we're doing and how we're 
engaged. I hear people talking about whether we should have gone or 
not. That's legitimate, and I think historians, probably political 
scientists over the next several years, next decades and next centuries 
will obviously gauge that and will judge that. We can talk about 
whether the war was prosecuted right or not; and, quite frankly, I 
think there are some questions there as to whether or not this 
administration, Mr. Speaker, and whether this White House, Mr. Speaker, 
has engaged the way that would bring about a quicker resolution to 
where it would win much quicker in Iraq.

But when I went home on Sunday, I drove back down through the 
Shenandoah Valley, down Highway 81, hit Interstate 40, went across the 
Cumberland Plateau, and I realized what a beautiful Nation we have. 
When you look at those hills along the Blue Ridge down through the 
Shenandoah Valley and then the Cumberland Plateau near the Cumberland 
Gap and realize the beauty of this vast Nation that we have and the 
people who live here.

I had an opportunity, my first day off, to spend about 7 hours 
fishing at a great warrior's old mill, Sergeant Alvin C. York, in 
Palmyra where I live.

