# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `778e2d5c3ee3f6ad98dde87eda99b9e1`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN â€” 9 January 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, it is an honor to take the floor today 
as the new chairman of the Senate Rules and Administration Committee to 
help lead the battle for meaningful and credible ethics reform. In the 
last election, the message was loud and clear: It is time to change the 
way business is done in the Nation's Capitol. Passage of this ethics 
reform package is the most direct action we can take to show the 
American people that tighter rules and procedures are in place and that 
the corrupt practices of the few will no longer be permitted. Strong 
criminal sanctions for these practices will henceforth be in place.

Passage of this bill will demonstrate once and for all that we care 
more about representing the American people than the perks of power.

I am especially pleased to be joined in this effort by my new ranking 
member, Senator Bennett, with whom I look to work very closely in this 
new Congress. I am also pleased that Senator Lieberman, the new 
chairman of Homeland Security and Government Affairs, and Senator 
Collins, the ranking member of that committee, have agreed to join us 
on the floor as comanagers of this bill.

On March 29, 2006, by a 90-to-8 vote, the Senate passed S. 2349, the 
Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act, which has now been 
introduced by the majority and minority leaders as S. 1. This 
legislation was a combination of separate bills reported by the Rules 
Committee and the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
It came to the floor early last year, at a time when Americans were 
becoming increasingly concerned about corrupt and criminal practices by 
a group of lobbyists, administration officials, congressional staff 
and, yes, even Members of Congress.

Also, various questions were raised about the K Street Project, in 
which lobbyist firms, trade associations, and other business groups 
were told they


would encounter a closed door in Congress unless they hired members of 
the then majority party.

The Senate-passed bill was a strong ethics, earmark and lobbying 
reform package. Unfortunately, the House voted instead to soften the 
provisions, lift the limits on party expenditures in general elections, 
and regulate 527 groups. A stalemate ensued and no conference report 
was returned. Now, with a new Congress under Democratic leadership, the 
Senate's first bill, S. 1, is essentially the same text as the Senate-
passed S. 2349.

I believe one message that was very clear in the last election was 
the need for Congress to immediately take steps to restore the public's 
trust. I would like to briefly outline the major provisions of the base 
bill and then follow up with some discussion about the improvements 
that are being considered in a bipartisan leadership substitute.

This is now the base bill. It prohibits gifts and travel paid for by 
lobbyists. Section 106 bans all gifts and meals from lobbyists. Section 
107(a) bans travel paid for by lobbyists or in which lobbyists 
participate. Section 107(b) requires full disclosure of travel by 
Members or their staffs on noncommercial airplanes. It closes the 
revolving door. Section 241 extends the existing lobbying ban for 
former Members and senior executive branch personnel from 1 to 2 years. 
That is a consequential change. Sections 108 and 241 toughen the 
existing lobbying ban for senior staff--those making 75 percent of a 
Member's salary or more--by prohibiting them from lobbying anyone in 
the Senate, not just their former boss or committee, as is presently 
required.

Section 109 requires public disclosure by Members of any negotiations 
for private sector employment.

Section 105 strips floor privileges from former Members who become 
registered lobbyists so that no former Senator can come to the Senate 
floor to lobby.

Section 110 bars immediate family members from lobbying a Member or 
his or her office, though they could still lobby other offices.

Section 103 requires that a sponsor of an earmark be identified with 
the additional spending requests in the earmark on all bills, 
amendments, and conference reports.

Section 104 requires conference reports, including the sponsors of 
earmarks in these reports, be posted on the Internet at least 48 hours 
before a vote unless the Senate determines by a majority vote that it 
is urgent to proceed to the legislation. So there is a hiatus in which 
names of sponsors will be published on the Internet for at least 48 
hours.

Section 102 subjects any out-of-scope matter added by a conference 
report to a 60-vote point of order. What does ''out of scope'' mean? It 
means a matter not approved by either body of the Congress. If you have 
a matter not approved by either body, and you want to bring it up in a 
conference report, you would have to withstand the test of a 60-vote 
point of order if a Member saw fit to bring that point of order. The 
Parliamentarian tells me that would not include earmarks added in 
conference which were not approved by the House or Senate. Members 
should know that. Earmarks are not included, just out-of-scope issues. 
We might want to take that into consideration.

As I have said before, I strongly believe such earmarks which have 
been added without being voted on by the subcommittee, committee, House 
or Senate, should be subject to a 60-vote point of order. I am 
interested in working with any colleagues on this matter.

The provision at issue was based on a stand-alone bill I introduced 
with Senator Lott last year, but it was changed as it moved forward. 
Even though it may not include earmarks, it is an important provision 
which will go a long way toward stopping controversial provisions often 
added in the dark of night.

Transparency in the Senate: Section 111 makes the K Street project--
that is, partisan efforts to influence private sector hiring--a 
violation of Senate rules.

Section 232 requires ethics training for members of staff.

Section 234 requires the Ethics Committee to issue annual reports on 
its activity--not to name names but to give the public a better idea 
about how active the committee has been.

Section 114 of the bill requires Senators to identify holds they 
place on legislation. This is an important improvement. All too often, 
important legislation has been blocked by an anonymous hold, and nobody 
knows who it is. Here, one person can stop a bill that has been 
dutifully passed out of the committee and passed by the Senate. This 
measure does not prevent such holds but requires that the Senator doing 
this file a public report in the Congressional Record within 3 days.

My colleagues from the Homeland Security and Government Affairs 
Committee will have much to say about the lobbyist disclosure 
provisions because they fall within the jurisdiction of their 
committee.

Let me go into a few major provisions under discussion that would 
likely come with a substitute amendment. The first is sporting and 
entertainment events. The substitute requires the proper and full 
valuation of tickets to sporting and entertainment events. No more cut-
rate tickets to combat the below-market prices being charged Members 
and staff as a way of getting around the gift ban. It would close the 
revolving door. The substitute prohibits Members from negotiating for 
private sector employment that involves lobbying activity while still 
holding office. Senior staff would have to inform the Ethics Committee 
if they enter into negotiations for private sector employment.

The substitute will also have a repeal on the current exception to 
the revolving door lobbying ban for Federal staffers hired by Indian 
tribes, something my office has worked on with Senator Reid.

Now, earmarks. Over the last 12 years, the number of earmarks have 
tripled to 16,000, worth $64 billion a year. The process has clearly 
gotten out of control. An important first step is disclosure. The 
substitute provides much more vigorous transparency. In the bill 
approved by the Senate last March, an earmark is defined as ''a 
provision that specifies the identity of a non-Federal entity to 
receive assistance and the amount of that assistance.'' The term 
''assistance'' means budget authority, contract authority, loan 
authority, and other expenditures and tax expenditures or other revenue 
items.

In the substitute, earmarks will be defined much more broadly to 
include not only non-Federal entities but any provision that benefits 
only one non-Federal entity even though the original funding is routed 
through a Federal agency. This is meant to get at the kind of earmarks 
notoriously offered by former Representative Cunningham that 
effectively directed funds to a non-Federal entity but did not directly 
name the entity.

We will also include targeted tax benefits and targeted tariff 
benefits in the definition of earmarks.

Another section is a provision sponsored by Senators Conrad and 
Gregg, chairman and ranking member of the Committee on the Budget. This 
amendment requires a Congressional Budget Office score for all 
conference reports before they are considered by the Senate. In 
emergencies, this could be waived by 60 votes.

The substitute will express the sense of the Senate on fair and open 
conference committee procedures. What that means is for the majority 
party not to exclude the minority party from the conference. We 
Democrats know what this is like. We would like to end that and have 
conferences open for the free discussion of Members of both political 
parties. This is a sensible provision. We should put an end to the 
practice that existed in this last Congress.

There will also be a ban on dead-of-night additions to conference 
reports after they have already been signed by Members. I actually 
couldn't believe this went on, but it does, and we should end it.

There are two important areas on which no agreement has been reached. 
Our majority leader had proposed broadening gift reform in S. 1 to 
prohibit gifts not only from lobbyists but also from organizations that 
employ or retain lobbyists, which makes sense. He had proposed 
broadening the travel provisions of S. 1 to prohibit travel paid for 
not only by lobbyists but also by organizations that employ or retain 
lobbyists and prohibit lobbyists' involvement in that travel. I also 
think that makes sense.



The minority leadership did not agree on the two proposals, so I now 
expect to see our majority leader offer an amendment on this 
separately. I will be pleased to support it.

In conclusion, a USA Today Gallup Poll last month said that only 15 
percent of those polled gave our House high marks for honesty. That was 
down from 25 percent in 2001 when Members got their best score since 
1976. When one looks at the scandals that were exposed last year, that 
is not surprising. The ties between lobbyists and lawmakers must be 
broken. Yes, the public has a constitutional right to petition 
Congress, but that right should not be limited to those who seek any 
special access.

The 2006 election saw the largest congressional shift since 1994. 
Even with the war on Iraq on voters' minds, polls showed Americans more 
concerned about ethics in government. The stakes are high. It is 
imperative we act. We have a vehicle to do so before the Senate. I hope 
we will.

I yield to the distinguished ranking member.