---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `77a3f05b68a7ad2393037312d52f7344`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 11 July 2007`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to reassert 
my support for a change of course in Iraq and to briefly address some 
of the


amendments we are going to consider in the next few weeks concerning 
Iraq policy.

Two weeks ago, I had the honor of experiencing firsthand one of the 
more memorable events to occur in this Senate in the 6 months since I 
have been here. It was late on a Monday evening, and just as you are 
right now, Mr. President, I was sitting in the Presiding Officer's 
chair. It was around 10 o'clock at night, and I was thinking that maybe 
the day's events had been about concluded. Well, OK, I was thinking 
maybe I was the only Senator left at the Capitol and that it was time 
to go home. Then onto the floor came Senator Lugar.

In my short time in the Senate, I have come to know the senior 
Senator from Indiana as a man with the deepest respect both from and 
for his colleagues, a leader who always puts principle above politics, 
and a Senator who earned the right to speak and be heard long before I 
came to Washington.

For the next 15 minutes, I listened to Senator Lugar--standing right 
over there--as he delivered a poignant, pragmatic assessment of our 
Nation's position in Iraq. Rising far above the partisan crossfire that 
too often fills this Chamber, the Senator from Indiana urged his fellow 
Members of Congress and members of the administration to suspend their 
party differences and to come together.

As he said that night:




 In my judgment, the costs and risks of continuing down the 


 current path outweigh the potential benefits that might be 


 achieved. Persisting indefinitely with the surge strategy 


 will delay policy adjustments that have a better chance of 


 protecting our vital interests over the long term.


I hope all of my colleagues will recognize that our current strategy 
in Iraq is not working, that a new strategy based on the drawing down 
of U.S. forces is necessary, and that this strategy must be implemented 
now.

After 4 years, over 3,600 American soldiers have been killed; over 
25,000 have been wounded; and almost $450 billion has been spent. We 
cannot wait until next year or even next month to change strategy.

After 4 years, we cannot wait for the Iraqi Government to demonstrate 
progress before we begin bringing our soldiers home, when it has shown 
no indication of a commitment to compromise and reconciliation.

And after 4 years, we cannot ask our men and women in the field to 
continue to risk life and limb indefinitely in pursuit of a policy that 
is not working.

As Senator Lugar said that night:




 A course change should happen now, while there is still 


 some possibility of constructing a sustainable bipartisan 


 strategy in Iraq.


Well, certainly, what we saw today on the floor of the Senate did not 
demonstrate that kind of bipartisan strategy. I personally thought it 
was obstructionism that we were not allowed to at least continue the 
debate and to vote on Senator Webb's amendment. I believe we have to 
have a change of course.

Our troops have done what we have asked them to do. They deposed an 
evil dictator. They guaranteed free elections in the country of Iraq. 
They gave the Iraqi people the opportunity to vote and to establish a 
new government.

We all know there can be no purely military solution in Iraq. This 
has been agreed on by so many military commanders, experts, and Members 
of this body on both sides of the aisle that it does not need to be 
argued anymore. And we all recognize true stability in Iraq will only 
come through political and economic compromises between Iraq's main 
ethnic groups, and only the Iraqis themselves can reach these 
compromises.

Given this, shouldn't our strategy be focused on transitioning to 
Iraqi authority now, not at some undefined time in the future?

We must push the Iraqi Government to assume the duties it was elected 
to perform and to lead the process of meaningful negotiation and 
dealmaking. Our open-ended commitment is impeding this process and 
inhibiting the will and the ability of the Iraqi people to stand up and 
take responsibility for their own country.

Nine months ago, the Iraq Study Group proposed a pragmatic change of 
course that focused on political and economic initiatives, intense 
regional and international diplomacy to tie all nations with an 
interest in Iraq together, and the beginning of a phased redeployment 
of U.S. forces from Iraq.

Since the issuance of the Iraq Study Group report, some conditions on 
the ground have remained the same, and a number have gotten worse. In 
the last 3 months, more U.S. troops were killed than in any other 3-
month period during the entire war.


I urge my colleagues to set aside differences, to forget about past 
disagreements or voting records, and to focus on what is best for our 
troops in the field going forward. We owe it to these brave men and 
women in the field to get this policy right.

I believe the best thing we can do--for our troops, for our national 
interest, and for the Iraqis themselves--is to begin bringing our 
troops home and to remove the bulk of the U.S. combat forces by the 
spring of next year. We would still maintain a presence capable of 
protecting U.S. personnel, training Iraqi forces, and conducting 
counterterrorism and other specific operations.

Keeping the 150,000 U.S. soldiers in Iraq is undermining our ability 
to achieve our objectives there and in the region. We need to start 
bringing them home. As Senator Lugar said that night:




 A diplomatic offensive is likely to be easier in the 


 context of a tactical drawdown of U.S. troops in Iraq. A 


 drawdown would increase the chances of stimulating greater 


 economic and diplomatic assistance for Iraq from multi-


 lateral organizations and European allies, who have sought to 


 limit their association with an unpopular war.


In March, I visited Baghdad and Fallujah and saw, firsthand, the 
bravery and commitment of our troops. Of the 22,000 troops involved in 
the surge, 3,000 of them are from my State of Minnesota. I met a number 
of these troops. Some of them just came up to me in cafeterias or on 
the street, and they were from Minnesota. I can tell you that they did 
not complain. They did not complain about their tour extensions. Some 
of them--in fact, nearly all of them--had been set to come home in 
January. They did not complain about that. They did not complain about 
their equipment. They did not complain about the heat. All they asked 
me was--first of all--what was the score of the State high school 
hockey tournament, and then they asked me if I would call their mom and 
dad, and if I would call their husband or wife when I got home to tell 
them they were OK.

My most lasting memory of that trip was standing on the tarmac at the 
Baghdad Airport, when nine Duluth firefighters called me over to stand 
with them. And they were there in front of their firetruck for one 
purpose, and that was to salute as six caskets, each draped with the 
American flag, were loaded on a plane.

They did not know who the brave soldiers were who died, but they knew 
when they were sent home, and when their families were there to meet 
them, their families' lives would never be the same. And they were 
there to show their respect.

Whenever I speak with the moms or dads or husbands or wives of 
soldiers who were killed, I always ask them how they are doing. When I 
asked this question of a mom recently from western Minnesota, she said: 
You know, people keep asking me that. They keep asking me how I am 
doing. And, you know, I really don't know what to say. She said: Do you 
have any ideas about what I should say? And I told her: Well, I can 
tell you what the other mothers have been saying. They have been saying 
that they wake up every morning, and they try so hard to hang together 
for their family, and then something happens--they see a picture or 
they remember something--and they are never the same for the rest of 
the day. And they have their good moments, but their lives will never 
be the same.

We owe it to these families to honor the sacrifices their sons and 
daughters have made and to begin bringing our troops in Iraq home so 
that other families do not experience similar anguish.

This is a different kind of war we are fighting. It has made demands 
on the National Guard that are unprecedented. At times, up to 40 
percent of the troops fighting in Iraq have been members of the 
National Guard and Reserves. In many respects, this war has involved a 
different kind of soldier.

In Vietnam, the average age of an American soldier was 19 years old. 
In


Iraq and Afghanistan, the average age of Active-Duty soldiers is 27, 
and the average age of National Guard members over there is 33 years 
old.

Three-fourths of all soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan have 
families of their own, and fully one-half of those who have been killed 
have left families behind.

Almost 22 percent of all Reserve and Guard members have had multiple 
deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. I have met some of these families. 
When I was up in Duluth, I met a brother and a sister--teenagers. Both 
of their parents had been in Iraq, and they were both going back again.

For 4 years, these citizen soldiers have gone above and beyond the 
call of duty and made extraordinary sacrifices. It is time to begin 
bringing them home.

We are finally starting to see some of our National Guard and Reserve 
members in Minnesota coming back, just as others across the country are 
taking their place. These men and women from Minnesota are completing 
one of the longest deployments of any U.S. military unit since the war 
began. They were originally scheduled to return home at the beginning 
of this year, only to find out weeks before they expected to ship back 
home that their tours had been extended as part of the President's 
surge strategy. Already a few hundred of these Guard members have been 
reunited with their loved ones, and by August the entire unit should be 
back in Minnesota, reconnecting with friends and family, beginning the 
process of transitioning to normal life. Having served and sacrificed 
for 16 months, these men and women have earned their rest and the right 
to live their lives in peace.

That is why I cosponsored and voted for the amendment offered by my 
friend from Virginia, Senator Webb, also cosponsored by Senator Hagel. 
This amendment, as my colleagues know, would require regular units 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan to remain at home at least as long as 
they were deployed and give Guard and Reserve members 3 years at home 
for every 1 year they are deployed.

The President's policies have placed unprecedented demands on our 
military in the 4 years of this war. Our forces are exhausted and 
overstressed. It is critical, both for morale and for operational 
safety, that units be given proper time to rest, recuperate, and 
retrain before redeploying. America's Armed Forces have a proud history 
and tradition that is unparalleled in the world, but when their ability 
to function properly is in danger, Congress must step in and address 
this situation.

I am disappointed that most of my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle chose to block this responsible proposal rather than allowing a 
simple majority vote. This amendment would begin the process of 
repairing and rebuilding our military, while maintaining our Nation's 
ability to meet any threat to our Nation's security. We owe this to the 
members of the National Guard and Reserve and to their fellow soldiers 
across the country.

Since I have been in the Senate, I have joined many of my colleagues 
on countless occasions in asking when this war's supporters would 
publicly acknowledge the realities on the ground and finally allow a 
change of course that begins bringing our forces home. Each time we ask 
this question, we are told to be patient, that progress is just around 
the corner, and that it would be counterproductive to establish a 
timetable for withdrawal. After my trip to Iraq, I met with the 
President with three other Senators, and I talked to him about this. He 
said he supported the Iraq Study Group, but he didn't believe in the 
timetables. He didn't want the deadlines. Again, we were told it will 
be counterproductive to establish a timetable for withdrawal.

Now we have reached a point where the patience of many of even the 
most loyal supporters of this war--and I am someone who opposed this 
war from the beginning--but the patience of even the most loyal 
supporters of this war has been exhausted.

We have reached a point where Senators who have dedicated their lives 
to serving our national interests cannot stand silent as America's 
strength and standing in the world is continually undermined. We have 
reached a point where the necessary changes in our strategies in Iraq 
may finally be possible. I urge my colleagues to vote for these 
changes. We simply cannot wait any longer.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.