# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `77ca5c2a12cb517d8cf6da0ad224742d`
`Ms. CASTOR — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, House Resolution 403 provides for consideration of 
H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
under a structured rule. The rule provides 90 minutes of general 
debate, equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Armed Services. The rule waives all 
points of order against the bill's consideration, except those arising 
under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. The rule makes in order and provides 
appropriate waivers for 50 amendments. The rule also permits the Chair 
of the Committee on Armed Services or his designee to offer amendments 
not earlier disposed of en bloc and debated for 20 minutes, equally 
divided and controlled by the Chair and ranking member of the Armed 
Services Committee. The Chair of the Armed Services Committee also may 
request that amendments printed and ordered in the Rules Committee 
report be offered out of that order with appropriate notice on the 
floor.

Madam Speaker, today the new Congress, under Democratic leadership, 
will chart a new direction for a stronger and safer America through the 
adoption of the Defense authorization bill, H.R. 1585, and this rule. 
As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am pleased to 
report that our committee, under the leadership of Chairman Ike 
Skelton, passed the bill out of committee unanimously in a bipartisan 
way, 58-0.

The Defense bill provides $648.6 billion to support our brave 
American men and women in uniform, but it does much more. The 
provisions in the bill would repair the damage done to America's 
national security by this White House by improving the readiness of our 
Armed Forces, requiring accountability from the White House in its


Iraq policy and making more strategic investments for the protection of 
the American people and our interests across the globe.

On readiness, we are going to take care of our troops and their 
families. We are going to fully fund the needs of our armed services. 
We are going to strengthen the National Guard and Reserves.

Here are a few details. We have authorized $1.2 billion for body 
armor; $2.5 billion for up-armored Humvees; $1.2 billion for vehicle 
add-on armor; and $509 million for the armored security vehicles. We 
are going to increase the end-strength of our armed services with 
36,000 new soldiers in the Army, 9,000 new troops in the Marine Corps 
and 1,300 troops in the Army National Guard.

This bill authorizes $4.5 billion to fund the anti-IED, improvised 
explosive device, efforts of the Joint Improved Explosive Device Defeat 
Organization.

In addition, Madam Speaker, although the President called for only a 
3 percent pay raise for our brave men and women in uniform, we have 
gone far beyond that because we recognize the sacrifice that they are 
providing for the benefit of the American people, and we have provided 
a pay raise in this bill for our troops of 3.5 percent.

Inexplicably, in this time of conflict and war the Bush 
administration also proposed increases in health insurance premiums for 
our military retirees and troops under TRICARE and proposed cuts to 
active military medical services. We have blocked that measure. It is 
the wrong time for the White House to propose health insurance premium 
increases, when we are asking so much of our brave American men and 
women in uniform.

Madam Speaker, in this bill we have also included provisions that we 
passed last month, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, because we 
remain committed to seeing that our wounded servicemembers receive the 
best health care possible. Indeed, Madam Speaker, under that Wounded 
Warrior Assistance Act, we are answering the call of the American 
people. This new Congress is demanding, through this rule and through 
this legislation, that the executive branch move beyond the rhetoric of 
''support our troops'' to concrete actions that sustain our brave men 
and women in uniform and their families by providing the quality health 
care they deserve when they return from the battlefield.

Supporting our troops does not mean that you simply salute and send 
them off to war, ask them to serve and sacrifice for our great country. 
But it also means that they are supported when they return home, their 
families are respected and our wounded warriors receive superior health 
care for their physical injuries and mental health care.

We are going to improve the health care-mental health care for our 
wounded warriors in this bill. We are going to tackle the bureaucracy 
that has blocked their access to health care. We are going to require 
expedited action, provide medical advocates, improve support services 
for families and really tackle the traumatic brain injuries and aid the 
polytrauma centers and VA hospitals across this country that are 
serving the most crucially wounded.

Madam Speaker, this bill also calls for greater accountability from 
the White House. In this bill, we are requiring more in-depth reports 
on operations in Iraq. We want to know what is truly happening on the 
ground with the Iraqi security forces.

There has been so much waste and fraud in contracting in Iraq and 
under this White House that we are not going to put up with it any 
longer. The Department of Defense, the Department of State, USAID, must 
have additional oversight of the multibillion dollar contracts that 
have been approved during this war in Iraq. We require reports on the 
proficiencies of the Iraqi Army, the police, and all security forces 
there.

To the credit of this Armed Services Committee, we have not forgotten 
about Afghanistan. In fact, in this bill, as an additional 
accountability measure, we have established an Inspector General for 
Afghanistan Reconstruction, as we cannot sanction the waste and fraud 
that has accompanied the administration's Iraq reconstruction.

Madam Speaker, we are also going to be more strategic in the defense 
of our national security. Like I said, Afghanistan cannot be the 
forgotten war. In fact, in this bill we direct more attention to 
operations there, in addition to the Inspector General that will 
oversee the reconstruction efforts. This bill contains a detailed plan 
to achieve long-term stability in what has been an unstable country in 
Afghanistan for many years.

Madam Speaker, we will hear debate today about missile defense. Now, 
this bill provides great investment in the protection and missile 
defense of this country. It also reinvigorates the nonproliferation and 
threat reduction initiatives that have suffered under the Bush 
administration. We are going to refocus our efforts strategically on 
terrorism and the true threats to our national security.

I am very proud to say that the headquarters of Special Operations 
Command is located in my district in Tampa, Florida, at the McDill Air 
Force Base. This Defense bill, under Democratic leadership, not only 
fully funds our Special Operations Forces, but it went beyond the Bush 
administration's budget request, and we have funded their five unfunded 
needs under the Bush proposal.

We have also authorized a 25 percent increase in Special Forces by 
the year 2013, because we recognize that we cannot rely solely any 
longer on the conventional threats to our country. We have got to be 
smarter, we have to be more strategic, and the Democratic Defense bill 
authorizes the increase in Special Forces and also a new emphasis on 
indirect action.

Oftentimes, to win the hearts and minds, you don't go in with guns 
blazing. In fact, you institute a smarter policy where you work with 
folks on the ground to prevent any terrorist initiative from ever 
developing. And this bill does that.

We have reinvested additional resources to improve education and 
analytical intelligence surveillance. We harness the science and 
technology innovation in this country by investing in information 
technology and other technologies to make sure that our troops on the 
ground have the best technology available across the globe.

Yes, Madam Speaker, this Defense bill charts a new direction for true 
readiness, accountability and more strategic investments to protect our 
national security.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.