---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `77d364b5674f61fad9cbcdf97bd125b9`
`Mr. BISHOP of New York — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of New York. I thank Congressman Israel for yielding, and 
I also thank him for organizing this special order, something I think 
that is long overdue. And let me also thank my friend and colleague 
from New York's Second Congressional District for his leadership role 
in the Center Aisle Caucus.

In a Congress that is, at times, bitterly divided along partisan 
lines, and that partisanship obscures the kind of discussion that we 
need to have on this issue as well as so many other issues, the Center 
Aisle Caucus stands for civility. It stands for honest and reasoned 
debate, and it stands for shared decision making. I say qualities that 
are often in short supply in this Chamber but qualities that are 
desperately needed, both in this Chamber and in our country.

Let me also start by offering my deepest sympathy and condolences to 
the family of Specialist James Lundin of Bellport in the First 
Congressional District, who also gave his life last week in Iraq. He 
represents, as you know, the 26th Long Islander to lose his or her life 
in the service of our great country in Iraq. His wake was today, and he 
will be buried tomorrow in Calverton National Cemetery.

And like you, Congressman Israel, I called his father on Monday, and 
I spoke with his father. And one of the things that struck me was the 
remarkable dignity with which he and his family were dealing with what 
has to be unspeakable pain. It is that kind of dignity that we need to 
honor in the way we do our jobs, and it is that kind of dignity that we 
need to bring to what will hopefully be a fruitful discussion of how we 
move forward in Iraq.

And, as I say, this kind of debate is a debate that must take place. 
It must be an honest debate; and it must be a debate that, above all, 
is absent in the often inflammatory and pejorative characterizations of 
those who offer differing views. And we all engage, at one time or 
another, in these inflammatory characterizations.

As you said, Congressman Israel, there is not a soul in this Chamber 
that does not support our troops. And, in fact, the evidence of that is 
over the course, the 4/1/2/ year course of this conflict, the fact that 
with overwhelming bipartisan majorities we have consistently given the 
troops each and every dime that this administration has asked for them 
and in some cases increased the amounts of money that we will make 
available to them.

We all want us to succeed in Iraq, in Afghanistan. We may have 
differing versions or different interpretations of what constitutes 
success, but that, again, is the kind of debate that ought to take 
place in a healthy and vibrant democracy.

But the debate thus far has been compromised, as you and others well 
know, when those of us who think that a time line is something that we 
ought to seriously consider. When that time line is characterized as a 
surrender date, that obscures the kind of discussion that we need to 
have.

When those of us who believe that we must change course in Iraq, when 
that is characterized by the questioning of our patriotism, that 
obscures the kind of debate that we need to have.

When looking for time lines or looking for benchmarks or talking 
about the way in which we fund our troops is characterized as 
abandoning our troops, that's the kind of thing that obscures the kind 
of reasonable debate that we need to have.

And with respect to supporting our troops, my own view, and I think 
this view is shared by a great many in this Chamber, that the best way 
to support our troops is to put them in positions where they can 
succeed and get them out of positions in which they cannot succeed. And 
I think we all agree on both sides of the aisle that what has taken 
place thus far has put our troops in positions in which it has been 
very, very difficult for them to succeed. So that, if nothing else, 
motivates an impetus on the part of a great many of us to urge a change 
of course in Iraq.

I want to speak just for a second, Congressman Israel, about one of 
the shared principles. And, by the way, those shared principles are the 
kind of principles that all reasonable people should be able to embrace 
and support. But one is the issue of standing up the Iraqi security 
forces. It is a subject about which we have spoken in the past, and I'm 
proud to be a cosponsor of the legislation that you have introduced, 
along with Chairman Skelton, that would create, in effect, a one-for-
one exchange; that for each Iraqi brigade or battalion that we stand 
up, we would withdraw one of our own.

I think that that kind of approach has several advantages. One, it 
would be true to the goal that the President himself has set out, and I 
believe set it out as going as far back as January of 2004, that as the 
Iraqi stand up we will stand down.

Since January of '04, we have spent about $15 billion to train and 
equip and outfit Iraqi troops, and we have several hundred Iraqi troops 
right now in uniform under arms, and yet we continue to increase our 
own complement of troops.

I think it is a perfectly reasonable, sane, rational proposition that 
we impose obligations on the Iraqi troops; and as they step up to those 
obligations, we relieve our own troops of those obligations.

As I say, I think the legislation that you and Chairman Skelton have 
filed and that, as I say, I am proud to cosponsor, I think that that is 
very reasonable legislation. I hope to see that legislation receive the 
kind of debate and discussion and attention that it ought to.

We're not done yet. As you know, we have a report coming to us in 
September; and at that point the Congress is going to need to make 
another set of


decisions. Hopefully, that kind of reasoned response to a situation 
that none of us can support in terms of how it has gone thus far is the 
kind of direction in which we need to head.

So, with that, I'm happy to yield back to you.