---
---

# HEALTH CARE REFORM
## `77dfd4981e9bd078ac24029d4b11f996`
`Mr. SNYDER — 17 March 2009`

---


Mr. SNYDER. I have seen that myself as a family practice doctor. I 
never owned a clinic, I worked at other people's clinics and met some 
wonderful people. But health care providers are business people too. 
They have got to pay their employees. Some health care programs don't 
reimburse as well as they would like.

Some clinics are in places that they may end up giving free care or 
have a group of patients that are not able to pay so well, and so it's 
like any business. It can be a strain to find the money for health 
care. It's one of the challenges we have to have.


You mentioned the economic issue, the one of our ability to compete 
internationally. I think that's an important one.

I want to also mention the national security issue, and I don't think 
this one has gotten as much attention as it probably deserves. We have 
had a lot of discussions about, you know, mental health coverage for 
our young men and women that come back that we think needed their 
families. The reality is we are expecting the military health care 
plan, or military health care programs and the VA health care programs 
to solve a national problem, which is we do not have a good network of 
mental health care in any of our States, particularly rural areas. But 
it's just difficult to find the kinds of providers you want for that 
kind of care.

I want to go before they go over. We had an issue, when we first 
started mobilizing our troops to go to Iraq and Afghanistan. When we 
were mobilizing our reserve component forces, about one-third of our 
troops were on some kind of a medical hold.

Now, a lot of it was for dental, a lot of it could be taken care of 
reasonably quickly. But the reality was, we had a situation. These are 
men and women who have been going on their weekends once a month for 
their training.

They go every 2 weeks in the summer and yet they are showing up on 
mobilization orders. We are finding out that they were not, under 
military standards, medically fit to be mobilized. I think for a lot of 
us that were on the Armed Services Committee, that was a bit of a wake-
up call too.

Because one of the issues for dental, although I was in medical and 
not dental school, I actually think my teeth are part of the body and 
should not be divorced from the whole system, because we know it has 
tremendous ramifications on the overall health. Dental health is part 
of this overall picture.

And here we have a situation where you make a pretty good argument, 
our national security efforts were slowed down and more inefficient 
because of the kind of health care plans that we have.

Now, having good health insurance doesn't necessarily get everybody 
to the dentist, but I guarantee you, if you don't have good health 
insurance or dental insurance you are much more likely not to get 
preventive care. So that's an issue too.