# TRIBUTES TO SENATORS
## `77e56778501dc2cb60c7b8078b27f678`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 12 December 2008`

---

 Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise today to honor an undeniable, 
universally-acknowledged legend of the U.S. Senate, an outstanding 
public servant who has been a legislative master of this institution 
and its most labyrinthine but pivotal and influential procedures, and a 
U.S. Senator who, with passion and verve, brilliantly grasped the 
complex nuances of legislation without losing the broader perspective 
driving the national issues of the day. I am referring, of course, to 
the Senior Senator from New Mexico, Pete Domenici.

In his 36 years serving the people of New Mexico in this venerable 
institution, Senator Domenici embraced and confronted the most 
difficult or consequential of matters regardless of opposition or the 
complexity of the subject. Indeed, Mr. President, as our country faces 
myriad challenges, it is with a heavy heart that we lose not only an 
exceptional colleague and friend to many of us, but one of the Senate's 
finest legislators.

I had the distinct privilege of witnessing Pete Domenici's sterling 
leadership and political acumen firsthand when he chaired the Senate 
Committee on the Budget from 1995 to 2002 in three successive 
Congresses. Having been a member on the House Budget Committee, I can 
tell you that serving on the Senate Budget Committee during Pete's 
chairmanship represented a magnificent opportunity for a freshman 
Senator--not to mention the fact that Pete empathized with me as he had 
been offered a seat on the committee as a freshman Senator as well.

Although Pete was quoted as saying that he joined the committee in 
1973 ''because it was available to me as a freshman, when other 
committees were not,'' history will show that the Senate Budget 
Committee, the U.S. Senate, and the country were all well-served 
because of Pete Domenici's undaunted command of the budget process and 
the esteem and respect with which he was held by his colleagues.

As I joined the Senate Budget Committee in 1995 with Chairman 
Domenici at the helm, we worked hand-and-glove to reprioritize our 
Federal budget, instill greater fiscal discipline, and pass a balanced 
budget for the first time in 26 years. Success was going to require 
dedication and pragmatism or in Pete's words, ''guts.''

I well recall standing on the floor of the Senate as we were debating 
the budget resolution, and, referencing Winston Churchill's famous 
remark, I said, ''I feel we finally have reached the 'end of the 
beginning' of what I hope will eventually be known as the first seven-
year budget to reach a balance in over a generation.'' And the force 
behind that legislative and budgetary milestone was the Senator we 
honor today, Pete Domenici. The ramifications of our work on that 
budget resolution, along with our strong bipartisan 92 to 8 victory on 
the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, represent a historic template for how 
this institution tackles budgetary issues today and likely will in the 
future.

However, what has resonated the most through the years--and what is 
certainly one of the crowning hallmarks of his monumental legacy--is 
how Pete reminded us that the Senate can indeed achieve resolution by 
bridging the partisan divide and forsaking polarizing acrimony in favor 
of substantive action advancing the public good.

Senator Domenici brought this same constancy of purpose and tireless 
commitment to the common good to his advocacy for mental health parity 
in healthcare coverage. Vigorously working across the aisle with 
Senators Wellstone and Kennedy, Senator Domenici demonstrated that 
building bipartisan coalitions based on common objectives and good will 
were not only possible but fundamental to creating good policy.

As Senator Domenici made his compelling case against the inequality 
of mental healthcare to the White House and to each Member of the 
Senate, his personal history with the disease was conveyed in a manner 
that could not have been more poignant and powerful. The story of 
Clare, Senator Domenici's daughter, mirrors that of millions of 
Americans afflicted with a mental health disorder, and Senator Domenici 
courageously recognized that he was uniquely positioned to help 
shepherd the message that health care coverage should not financially 
discriminate on the basis of this disease.

Although Senator Wellstone characterized his partnership with Senator 
Domenici as, ''an odd couple,'' where their political philosophies 
diverged, there common allegiance to making a difference paved the way 
for enormous strides that engendered an effective bond. And with 
stately leadership, Senator Domenici and Senator Kennedy rallied the 
Senate, which at that point had mourned the tragic loss of Senator 
Wellstone, to action, passing the Mental Health Parity Act which the 
President signed into law. Once again, Mr. President, Senator Domenici 
confounded the status quo and fought for meaningful change.

I believe we ought to have more, not fewer, ''odd couples'' and 
alliances in the Senate, given that compromise and conciliation are the 
true and necessary lifelines to achieving real results. To that end, my 
hope is that the Domenici-Wellstone-Kennedy example will constitute a 
model for generations to come of bipartisanship and comity. And I 
couldn't have been more pleased, having been a longtime leader on this 
issue myself, to work in accord with Senator Domenici in bringing this 
matter to fruition in the 110th Congress.

Lastly, I cannot help but applaud Senator Domenici for his 
indispensable role in championing the 2005 Energy Policy Act. And while 
we had some differences on policy, once again, true to his relentless 
work ethic, his can-do optimism, and dogged determination, what was 
most conspicuously vital and on display was Senator Domenici's 
pragmatism in crafting this legislation.

Advancing this measure required Senator Domenici to compromise with 
his own colleague from New Mexico, Senator Bingaman. Yet they sought, 
found, and maximized the common denominators that would, in the end, 
allow this bill to be signed into law. It stands as an enduring 
testament to Senator Domenici that the final energy bill in 2005 passed 
with 71 votes, and Congress took a serious step forward in addressing 
our energy crisis.

Time and again, Senator Domenici has placed legislative performance 
above political posturing, and a desire for concrete results above the 
din of discord and rancor. And in the process, Senator Domenici leaves 
a formidable legacy of establishing the standard for facilitating the 
budget process, providing mental health parity for millions of 
Americans, and forging a critical first step toward altering the course 
of our long-dormant energy policy.

For well more than three decades, this institution has been blessed 
to have among our ranks one of the giant legislators of his generation 
and our time, and we will miss you Pete and all you brought to the 
Senate, to public service, and to the people of New Mexico. As the son 
of Italian immigrants, who worked in your father's whole grocery 
business, and who would later become a minor baseball pitcher, math 
teacher, lawyer, and then a legendary Senator--you truly exemplify the 
very best of the American story and dream. To Nancy and the entire 
Domenici family, thank you for sharing Pete with us and our country. We 
are all the better for knowing him, working with him, and calling him 
our colleague and friend.

















john warner


Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to my good friend and 
colleague, a true giant of this institution, and a consummate public 
servant, the gentleman--and I use that term with every fiber of the 
true definition of the word--the gentleman from Virginia, Senator John 
Warner.

Mr. President, in delivering these remarks, and most especially in 
considering Senator Warner's impending retirement from the Senate, I 
have chosen not to focus on the tremendous loss to this body that will 
occur with John's departure--though the dimension of that loss is 
indisputably monumental. Rather, I prefer to recall the incalculable 
contributions John has made to enhancing this institution since his 
arrival here nearly 30 years ago--and his unparalleled commitment to 
the state and the Nation he has served so honorably and so well.



John and I both came to the Congress at the same time--albeit to 
different chambers. I had long been familiar with Senator Warner's 
outstanding reputation as a man of strength, character, knowledge and 
integrity from my days in the House. And it didn't take long for me to 
find out why when I joined him in the Senate.

Among many memories is my service on the Senate Armed Services 
Committee as Chair of the Seapower Subcommittee under John's leadership 
as chairman--and the command and the focus and the vision that he 
brought to that critical panel. I can tell you, with his long service 
on the committee--and of course as a former Secretary of the Navy, 
there wasn't anyone who instilled greater confidence when it came to 
meeting the challenges of limited defense dollars and the reality of 
that post-Cold War period than John Warner.

I certainly well recall that at a time when our foreign policy had 
quite frankly made our Navy into America's ''Emergency 9-1-1'' force, 
with a 331 percent increase in contingency operations at that time from 
the previous ten years, at a time when the branches of the services 
weren't meeting their recruitment goals and the Air Force and Navy were 
woefully short of pilots, at a time when China was continuing to make 
quantum leaps in military technology, Senator Warner's expertise and 
leadership didn't arrive a moment to soon.

I remember an instance when he called our allies to account on 
Kosovo--when he saw that our European partners had deployed only 722 of 
the 1,264 policemen they had promised to provide as part of the Kosovo 
Police Force, he held them to their commitment. He exposed that 
inequity and thanks to his hand at the helm they began to change their 
course.

From day one as chairman, Senator Warner was relentless in 
scrutinizing existing defense programs as well as articulating a vision 
for the future. And no where was that more in evidence--or more 
prescient, for that matter, than when he created the Emerging Threats 
Subcommittee, to address everything from cyberterrorism to terrorist 
threats here at home.

Indeed, as I said at an event at the time, ''the fact is, since 
Soviet power has receded from the heart of Europe, the United States 
faces more regionally diverse and unpredictable challenges to its 
national security than ever before. And John knew we must be prepared 
to respond.'' Well, that was and is the John Warner I know--always 
looking ahead, always anticipating the next challenge, and always 
working to meet those challenges head on.

And above all else, no one, no one, is more concerned about the 
welfare and well-being of our brave men and women in uniform than John 
Warner.

Interestingly, Senator Warner was Undersecretary of the Navy while 
the late Senator John Chafee served as Secretary. And might I just say 
as an aside, what an extraordinary duo would come out of the Pentagon 
to subsequently serve side-by-side in the United States Senate. And 
like John Chafee, John Warner earned the unwavering respect of our 
military men and women because of his unflagging respect for each and 
every one of them.

Certainly, Senator Warner has always had unlimited enthusiasm and 
commitment for the men and women of the Navy and Marine Corps. In fact, 
I understand that, in a time before there were elevators and escalators 
in the Pentagon, he was known for quite literally bounding up the steps 
''two by two'' in the mornings, and that he did so every morning to get 
to his office to serve the officers, sailors, and Marines for whom he 
cared so much.

I am certain it is that very spirit that explains why he is so 
beloved by our members of the armed forces of the United States. I am 
certain it is also that spirit that's made him so beloved by members of 
this United States Senate.

It's a spirit not only of ''can do'', but of ''must do''. It's an 
honor-bound dedication to the notion that we all have a sworn duty to 
our constitution and to our country to leave a better nation for having 
acted in our country's best interests.

It's a quality we witnessed once again during historic debates on our 
course in our war in Iraq. Senator Warner consistently brought to bear 
his credibility, his gravitas, and his experience to elevate the 
Senate's deliberations and rise above the din of partisanship. What 
John Warner said on the matter of Iraq--or on any military issue of 
vital import--carried the weight of an intellect pledged solely to the 
concept and pursuit of doing what is right.

And at no time was John's sense of the greater good more evident than 
in John's leadership in the so-called ''Gang of 14''--at a crossroads 
when the very institution of the Senate was caught in the cross-hairs 
of a struggle over judicial nominations. As we recall, at the time, the 
repeated, systemic filibuster of the President's nominees had been a 
corrosive force on the Senate. At the same time, the repeated, 
systematic filibuster of the President's nominees had been a corrosive 
force on the Senate. At the same time, exercising the so-called 
''nuclear option''--that would have jettisoned the traditional rules 
governing these nominations--would truly have had longstanding 
consequences for the future of the Senate.

But we set aside partisan differences to help forge consensus to 
safeguard a body constituted to be neither a rubber stamp nor a 
personalized veto. Just when we were about to cross a political 
Rubicon, this watershed compromise embraced and preserved the essence 
of our Founding Fathers' vision to achieve results through 
accommodation--and embodied the best traditions of the Senate. And John 
Warner was instrumental in standing up and leading that charge--once 
again, lending the gravity of his standing in the Senate to advance 
that crucial cause.

So when I think of John Warner, I think of an embodiment of what our 
forefathers quite likely had in mind when they envisioned a U.S. 
Senator. Someone who is learned, who is deliberative, who is 
compassionate, who is considered, who is experienced, who is reasoned 
and measured in approach--but who is most undeniably unafraid to act 
decisively when circumstances demand.

That is the caliber of the man to whom this institution is about to 
bid farewell. And as we do so, I also cannot help but recall the proud 
tradition of extraordinary thinkers and leaders that the great 
Commonwealth of Virginia has produced over centuries--the ranks of 
which John Warner is most unquestionably fit to occupy. What a credit 
he has been to his State, what a legacy he contributes to Virginia, and 
certainly to America. The people of Virginia could not have asked for a 
more eloquent and powerful voice in the U.S. Senate--and it was a 
powerful voice not for the brashness of its volume or tone, but because 
of the credibility and thoughtfulness behind the words and thoughts 
that voice delivered.

Quite simply, he is truly one of the best--deeply respected, highly 
regarded, a principled, independent-minded voice of reason. He is what 
we need more of in government. And he sets an example for us all.

He has also been a great friend to me--as he has to so many of us. I 
will miss the firmness and sincerity of his warm ''hellos''. I will 
miss running into him in the hallways, on the Senate subway, on this 
floor. I will miss his institutional wisdom and depth and breadth on 
the issues. I will miss his kindness and comradery. And, I imagine, 
there are 98 others in this Chamber who feel likewise.

So let me just say, farewell, John Warner. And while none of us want 
to see you go, there is certainly unanimous consent that--as you yield 
the floor for the final time--no one is more deserving of this time to 
now spend with your family, your friends, and with whatever personal 
pursuit you may choose--than you, John, as a public servant of so many 
years, a public servant of great accomplishment, and a public servant 
of such positive and indelible consequence to the Senate, and to 
America.