# IRAQ RESOLUTION FILIBUSTER
## `77f3e62641060191273925279b7543f6`
`Mr. REID â€” 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, all across America this past weekend, and 
even this morning in schools, cafes, pool halls, I am sure, churches, 
synagogues, military bases, and all offices, people are talking about 
this war in Iraq. They are talking about President Bush's plan to 
escalate the war in Iraq--or ''augment,'' as the amendment of the 
Senator from Virginia talks about. But if you look in the dictionary, 
''augment'' and ''escalate'' have the same definition. So every place 
in America people are talking about Iraq--every place, that is, except 
in the Senate. I say that because in press conferences held, in 
statements made by the Republican leader, they have stated there will 
be no ability to proceed to the debate on this most important issue.

According to my counterpart, the Republican leader, the Republican 
Senators are going to say no and, he says, without exception. What does 
this mean? That we are not going to be able to move to proceed to this 
debate? What is more important than what we are trying to do here 
today; that is, move forward on a debate on Iraq? As I said, they are 
doing it every other place in America. Why shouldn't we be able to do 
it here in the Senate? We learned on Friday--it was continued over the 
weekend--that the minority is going to do everything in its power to 
block an Iraq vote. Are they so worried that a bipartisan majority of 
Senators might voice their opposition to this escalation; so worried 
that these Senators are going to prevent any Iraq debate?

Remember, this is a very delicate time in the history of our country. 
Not only do we have the Iraq debate to worry about, but we also, 
because of the mess, frankly, that was left by the prior majorities in 
the House and Senate, have no ability to fund this Government after 
February 15. We have to do that. This has to be completed by a week 
from this Friday.


I received letters from Republican Senators. They are going to 
filibuster the continuing resolution, which


means I have to move forward on this to keep the Government from 
shutting down. Our inability to go forward on the Iraq debate means we 
may not have the Iraq debate. Remember, we have lost, already, several 
days. We should be debating this right here today rather than having to 
vote at 4:30 on whether we can proceed on it.

What is the excuse--and I say excuse--that they are not going to let 
the American people hear the Senate debate the escalation of the war in 
Iraq? This claim--and I might say, it is a feeble claim--that they 
haven't been guaranteed a vote on amendments is not credible. It is 
simply not true. They have rejected, through their leader--they, the 
Republicans--three compromises that would have permitted the Senate to 
vote on the President's plan. I have done this privately. I have done 
it publicly.

I offered to schedule an up-or-down vote on McCain--that is a 
resolution supporting the President's plan--and on the Warner-Levin 
resolution in opposition. That is votes up or down on these two 
amendments. This offer was rejected.

We then offered the Republican leadership up-or-down votes on those 
two resolutions I just talked about and they had another one. The 
Republican leader had another one. I read it. It is the Gregg 
amendment. So we said let's go ahead and vote on that. I was turned 
down there also.

I don't know what more we can do. I even went one step further and 
said we will hold supermajority votes, 60 votes, on Warner and on 
McCain, two separate votes, 60 each. What more could we do? These were 
rejected. I have said this publicly, but I said it privately--and there 
were all kinds of witnesses to my conversation with the Republican 
leader--the Republican leader obviously can't take ''yes'' for an 
answer. They have been given all they asked. It is clear their actions 
are not driven by getting votes on Republican proposals, they are not 
being driven by getting votes on Republican proposals; they are driven 
by a desire to provide political cover.

The majority can't rubberstamp the President's policies on Iraq 
anymore so they decided to stamp out debate and let the actions in Iraq 
proceed unchecked. America deserves more than a filibuster on the 
President's flawed plan to add 48,000 troops to Iraq. It is not 21,000. 
The war in Iraq has taken a great toll on our country. Well more than 
3,000 American soldiers have been killed, 24,000 or 25,000 of them 
wounded, a third of them missing eyes--head injuries. We have 2,000 who 
are missing limbs.

The war has strained our military. I have been told by leaders at the 
Pentagon that we do not have a single Army unit that is nondeployed 
that is battle ready.