---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `780d969e4a016f156ab6c90a04169d23`
`Mr. HUNTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, once again, these Status of Forces 
Agreements, which are pretty run of the mill, do not manifest security 
commitments by the United States to protect the countries that they are 
made with. They talk about the treatment and describe the treatment of 
Americans with respect to getting licenses, licensing their vehicles, 
how they're going to be treated in cases of civil or criminal actions. 
Basically how the American who is in that particular foreign country, 
and again we have got 80 of them that we have done, how they are going 
to be treated by that host country.

Now, they are not security commitments, and if you have something 
that does, in fact, commit the United States to a security agreement 
with another country, and in this case Iraq, I have no dispute with my 
colleagues, that at that point you have a treaty, and a treaty, because 
it manifests commitments, has to be ratified.

But I don't understand why we are saying that the Status of Forces 
Agreement, which is going to talk about how our troops are treated in 
the same way that we talk about how American military personnel who are 
in Germany or Japan or 80 other countries are treated, how that now 
becomes something special because it's Iraq and, in the case of Iraq 
alone, we have to have a ratification by Congress.



I would reserve the balance of my time.