---
---

# None
## `7825e2126e6b1d8d8ac0b9f6e70158aa`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be here 
again to spend a small amount of time on behalf of the Speaker's 30-
something Working Group. I thank the Speaker of the House for allowing 
us this opportunity to come and share with our colleagues and share 
with the American people some, I think, very important thoughts on what 
is happening today.

It was interesting, I got to hear the end of our colleagues' remarks 
from across this side of the aisle; and one of the things they have 
asked of this Congress, and you hear it over and over again as we talk 
about this war in Iraq, is that we have to finish the job. And I think 
there is a question that has to come before that subject. We have got 
to start asking a little bit more in this place what that job is. I 
think that is what this debate is about, in part, this week, and the 
debate that we have renewed here since we have brought the House under 
new leadership. What is the job that we need to be doing in order to 
keep this country safe?

The answers to that have come in piecemeal fashion, in dribs and 
drabs over the past year. But maybe the most substantial piece of 
information, new information that helped us decide what that job is, 
was when we got last summer evidence through the National Intelligence 
Estimate that started to tell us that if our job is what we think it 
is, which is to do everything we can to keep this country safe, then 
our own Intelligence Community, the dozens of intelligence officers and 
organizations that contributed to that report came up with one 
unfortunately startling conclusion, and that was that our efforts in 
Iraq are on more days making us less safe as a Nation than making us 
more safe.

Why? Because we have not only destabilized the region, but we have 
created what that report called a cause celebre in that country, where 
extremists and terrorists around the world now see Iraq as their 
proving ground, as their training ground, and as their breeding ground.

So what we are debating here today is, I think, exactly the question 
that is posed by the other side of the aisle: Let's start talking about 
finishing that job. That job is ridding this world of fundamentalism 
and terrorism and extremism that poses a threat to us no matter where 
it is. It is not confined by the borders of some country in the Middle 
East that we occupy today. It doesn't know the borders of nation 
states. It poses a threat to us in all forms and from all places.

And so this debate this week, the supplemental bill which this House 
will vote on shortly, is about refocusing our mission, starting to deal 
with the realization and the reality of a conflict against terrorism 
that goes far beyond the borders of Iraq.

Part of what this bill is going to do is not only redeploy our 
forces, but also bring our troops out of harm's way in that country. 
You can't ask them to be a referee in what has become a religious 
conflict in that country, one that military leader after military 
leader, our own commanding general on the field there, General 
Petraeus, has said himself just earlier this month that there is no 
military solution to what has become a civil and religious conflict on 
the ground.

Job number one is to recognize the limits of our brave men and women 
in Iraq. They do an unbelievably admirable job every day. We are so 
grateful, especially those of us in the 30-something Working Group who 
consider those men and women our contemporaries, that they have chosen 
to defend this Nation so that others of us are able to serve this 
country in a different way. In order to honor them, in order to support 
those troops, we need to bring them out of a fight that our military 
forces cannot win alone.

But this is also about refocusing that effort, and I think that is 
what we have to keep on coming back to here, is there are fights still 
worth fighting in other parts of the world, such as Afghanistan, where 
we are on the verge of losing control of that country back to the very 
forces that gave cover and umbrage to the people who attacked this 
Nation on September 11. Remember, it was not Saddam Hussein that flew 
planes into tall buildings in New York, it was Osama bin Laden's 
organization called al Qaeda that used Afghanistan and the Taliban as 
its place and center of operation. And that country, as we have shifted 
more forces away from Afghanistan into Iraq, is now falling back into 
chaos, and part of our mission here has to be a realization that there 
are places worth fighting, and there are places in which military 
forces cannot quell ongoing violence. Afghanistan is still a fight 
worth fighting.

But it is also about focusing our efforts back here at home. And one 
of the secrets starting to come out, and thanks in part to the work of 
Representative Wasserman Schultz and


Representative Meek and Representative Ryan, the work they did here on 
the late nights on the floor of the House, we were able to hear a 
little bit about this in the past year, was that this Congress over the 
last several years wasn't doing justice to the issues of homeland 
security, wasn't doing everything that we should be doing in order to 
protect our own people and our own borders here at home.


So this supplemental bill that everybody hears about that the 
Congress is going to vote on is not only going to finally do exactly 
what the will of the people have asked for in the election of last 
November, which is set a new course in Iraq, but it is also to start 
refocusing and redoubling our efforts back here at home.

The $2.6 billion in this bill will be rededicated to the efforts to 
make sure that terrorism does not find harbor on the shores of this 
Nation. Over $1 billion for aviation security, $90 million for advanced 
checkpoint explosive detection equipment, $160 million to increase air 
cargo screening, $1.25 billion for new port transit and border 
security, $150 million for nuclear security. We can go on and on and 
on. We are going to finally step up to the plate as a Congress and make 
sure that we are spending money to win the fight that matters to finish 
the job.

That job, Mr. Speaker, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, has to be done with the 
recognition that Iraq has become now a place that, on more days than 
not, presents a greater danger to this country by creating a hotbed, a 
training ground, a proving ground for terrorists. We need to start 
refocusing our efforts on fights that matter.

This is going to be one of the more important pieces of legislation 
that will come before this Congress, and I think it will honor that job 
that we are entrusted with, which is to protect this Nation from those 
that would do harm to it.