# EXPRESSING SYMPATHY TO THE PEOPLE OF POLAND
## `782e45c89125fd8292cedb00fab2c085`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 14 April 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Speaker, I am saddened by the need for this resolution. The 
death of Polish President Lech Kaczynski, his wife Maria, and 94 other 
Polish officials and citizens in the plane crash in Russia on April 10 
was sudden, unexpected, and truly a tragedy for the nation of Poland.

We have all seen the outpouring of grief and tributes since then by 
the citizens of Poland in support and in honor of their late President 
and all who died with him.

There is little that we can here do today to add to the honors 
bestowed upon the departed by their very own countrymen, but we can, 
however, offer our condolences to the strong and proud nation of 
Poland, which has been and remains a friend and an ally of the United 
States.

Despite the loss of their President, we can be certain that the 
Polish people will continue on the road toward democracy, prosperity, 
and security, the road that they have traveled since they broke free of 
the grip of Communist authoritarian rule in 1989.



How proud we were, when they regained their freedom, that America has 
stood by the people of Poland during those times when they suffered 
under a Communist dictatorship and domination by the former Soviet 
regime in Moscow. Similarly, the people of Poland now offer their 
solidarity with those who seek freedom in my native homeland of Cuba. 
Having suffered in the not-too-distant past under the crushing yoke of 
the Soviet regime, many in Poland sadly know all too well the struggles 
that the people of Cuba face each and every day under the stranglehold 
of the Cuban dictatorship.

Poland's support for human rights and democracy in Cuba illustrates 
it has not forgotten its past suffering nor the strength that it 
received from the solidarity of others. And how proud we are today that 
Poland has become an important member of both the North Atlantic 
Alliance and the European Union and that it has become a strong voice 
for those countries in Eastern Europe that are working to ensure that 
they never again fall victim to the domination by a more powerful 
neighboring state.

President Kaczynski was, in fact, an important leader in an effort to 
ensure that the hard-won liberty and democracy today enjoyed by Poland 
and other nations of Eastern Europe is not bartered away. He recognized 
the temptations faced by other European states which eagerly expand 
their commercial and military exports to Russia while increasing their 
reliance on energy supplies from Russia. He would not succumb to those 
Russian manipulations and coercions.

The late Polish President was a voice that may have been unwelcome 
among some in the councils in Brussels, but it was a voice that was 
heeded.

Moreover, Madam Speaker, under his leadership, Poland continued as a 
strong friend and a staunch ally of the United States, supporting 
military operations against extremists in Iraq and in Afghanistan, 
supporting America's efforts to create long-range missile defenses for 
both Europe and the United States, participating as a full partner in 
NATO, and supporting the expansion of democracy everywhere.

There are those in Europe who, while enjoying the security commitment 
provided by the United States through NATO, nevertheless feel free to 
criticize America's initiatives to fight extremism and address threats 
around the world. President Kaczynski was not one of those voices. In 
fact, during his trip to the United States 3 years ago, he made a 
special trip to visit the Reagan Library as a sign of his country's 
appreciation for our former President's leadership in the efforts to 
free his country from Communist domination. President Kaczynski valued 
this support and offered Poland's support in return.

Madam Speaker, we express our condolences to the people of Poland on 
the loss of their President, his wife, and so many of the leading 
officials and countrymen. At this time, and in the future, America will 
forever remain a friend of Poland.

With that, Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.