# None
## `7830615ac6e4329f9f1f89cd781900e0`
`Mr. COBURN — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. COBURN. As we approach the end of the year, Congress once again 
finds itself on a last-minute spending spree, approving billions of 
dollars of new spending with few questions asked, no amendments 
allowed, and little debate, discussion, or inspection permitted.

The U.S. national debt now exceeds $9.13 trillion. That means almost 
$30,000 in debt for each and every man, woman, and child in the United 
States. The U.S. debt is expanding by about $1.4 billion a day, or 
nearly $1 million a minute. The unfunded liability placed on a child 
born today is $400,000.

The ''Financial Report of the United States Government'' released 
this week found that the Federal deficit would be


nearly 70 percent higher than the $162.8 billion reported 2 months ago 
if the Government used the same accounting practices as private firms. 
Accounting for such liabilities as pensions and health care costs when 
they are incurred rather than when they are paid would have boosted the 
deficit to $275.5 billion, the report noted.

It is completely irresponsible for Congress to add to this debt that 
threatens the retirement security of our senior citizens and the 
economic prosperity of our children and grandchildren who will inherit 
the debt that results from the spending decisions Congress is making 
today.

The Omnibus appropriations bill, which combines the 11 unfinished 
appropriations bills to fund the Federal Government's operations in 
fiscal year 2008, provides approximately $515.7 billion in 
discretionary spending. The bill also adds approximately $11 billion in 
emergency spending, of which $3.7 billion is contingent emergency 
spending for veterans programs.

This bill was approved by the House of Representatives last night, 
and the Senate will vote on it today, even though it has only been 
available now for 36 hours. The bill is more than 3,400 pages, and I am 
fairly certain that not a single Member of either chamber of Congress, 
or anyone else, for that matter, has read it in its entirety. What is 
most shocking, however, is that the eagerness of Members of Congress to 
recess for the year and to satisfy the desire to secure pork projects 
has taken precedent over our responsibility to properly manage the 
Nation's finances and set national spending priorities.

While this bill does not provide the funding that is needed for our 
brave men and women in uniform fighting on the front lines in Iraq, it 
does contains over 9,000 special interest pork projects, known as 
''earmarks.''

''An earmark Christmas, Lawmakers deck out omnibus with many a 
spending project,'' proclaims the front page of the Hill newspaper. 
''Earmark Extravaganza, Nearly 9,000 Requests in Omnibus,'' exclaims 
the front page of Roll Call.

Nearly 300 of the earmarks in this bill costing over $800 million 
were air dropped into this bill during closed- door meetings not open 
to the public or most Members of Congress.

Among the thousands of earmarked projects tucked into this bill are:

$113,000 for rodent control in Alaska;

$213,000 for olive fruit fly research in France;

$1,645,000 for the City of Bastrop, LA. According to Bastrop Daily 
Enterprise, ''The money is officially earmarked for the purchase of 
bulletproof vests and body armor. Bulletproof vests only cost about 
$700-800, however, so $1.6 million would appear to be overkill.'' 
Police detective Curtis Stephenson agrees, conceding ''There's no way 
we'd need that kind of money just to put all our people in vests.'';

$200,000 for a Hunting and Fishing Museum in Pennsylvania;

$150,000 for a Louis Armstrong Museum in New York;

$700,000 for a bike trail in Minnesota;

$1,000,000 for river walk in Massachusetts;

$200,000 for a post office museum in downtown Las Vegas;

$1,000,000 for an earmark requested by a House Member who has been 
indicted on Federal charges of racketeering, money-laundering and 
soliciting bribes;

$824,000 for alternative salmon products;

$146,000 for an aquarium in South Carolina;

$1,000,000 for managing weeds in Idaho; and

$37,000 for the Lincoln Park Zoo in Illinois.

It is hard to argue that any of these are national priorities or more 
important than funding the troops in Iraq or worth increasing the 
national debt. Members of Congress have, however, learned to 
rationalize the practice of earmarking, but the truth is every earmark 
diverts funds away from more important national priorities.

I filed two amendments to this bill that would have demonstrated this 
point that I had hoped to offer but was blocked from doing so. These 
amendments would have given Congress the opportunity to choose between 
improving deficient roads and bridges and providing health care to 
women and children before steering funds toward special interest 
earmarks.

The first amendment, 3860, would have allowed the Department of 
Transportation to redirect earmarked funds to improve unsafe roads and 
bridges.

On August 1, 2007, the Interstate 35 West, I-35W bridge over the 
Mississippi River in Minneapolis, MN, collapsed during rush hour, 
killing 13 people and injuring another 123. This tragedy exposed both a 
nationwide problem of deficient bridges as well as misplaced priorities 
of Congress, which has focused more on funding earmarks than improving 
aging infrastructure.

According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, one out of every 
eight bridges in our Nation is structurally deficient. Of the 597,340 
bridges in the United States, 154,101 bridges are deficient. Yet, 
instead of addressing needed bridge maintenance, Congress has 
prioritized earmarks for politicians' pet projects, many which do not 
even involve roads or bridges.

The $286 billion, 5-year Transportation authorization bill approved 
by Congress in 2005, for example, included 6,373 earmarks, totaling $24 
billion, including the infamous ''Bridge to Nowhere'' in Alaska.

An investigation by the inspector general of the Department of 
Transportation found that ''Many earmarked projects considered by the 
agencies as low priority are being funded over higher priority, non-
earmarked projects.'' The IG notes that ''Funding these new low 
priority projects added to the already substantial backlog of 
replacement projects and caused [Federal Aviation Administration] to 
delay the planning of its higher priority replacement projects by at 
least 3 years.''

Earmarks have siphoned away tens of billions of dollars that could 
and should have been spent to upgrade deficient bridges or improve 
aging roads rather than being spent on politicians' pet projects.

The Senate has already rejected a similar amendment in September, and 
this bill shows once again that Congress is more interested in securing 
earmarks than securing our Nation's roads and bridges.

The second amendment, 3861, would have allowed the Department of 
Health and Human Services to redirect earmarked funds to the Maternal 
and Child Health Block Grant Program.

Congress has spent much of this year posturing about who cares most 
about providing health care for children and the uninsured. Yet 
Congress has failed to enact any reforms to expand health care access. 
According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, in this country there were 
9.5 million children who lacked health insurance for at least part of 
last year, and over 17 million women are uninsured.

This amendment ensures that many of these uninsured women and 
children would receive services from the Maternal and Child Health 
Block Grant, which provides funding for urgent health needs for 
pregnant women, mothers, infants, children, and adolescents. It is 
shameful that Congress has diverted tens of millions of dollars in the 
health title of this bill towards special interest pork projects when 
millions of children and women do not have access to critical health 
care.

The Senate rejected a similar amendment in October, and this bill 
demonstrates once again that while Congress may talk about prioritizing 
children's health care, the real priority of Congress is its own 
special interest pork projects.

There are plenty of other examples in this bill of Congress's 
misplaced priorities. The bill, for example, terminates the Baby AIDS 
Program that provides resources to prevent perinatal HIV transmission 
and care for mothers with HIV, while ensuring that San Francisco 
receives funding for deceased AIDS patients. The bill provides another 
$100 million for the 2008 political party conventions. It allows the 
Department of Justice to again provide Federal financial support for 
groups linked to terrorism by removing the prohibition passed by the 
Senate in October.

Who know what other travesties are hidden within this 3,400 page 
omnibus spending bill that Congress is expected to pass without having 
time to read, review, or amend? Members of Congress may never know, and 
apparently few seem to care.



It should come as no surprise to anyone that the approval ratings of 
Congress have reached alltime historical lows.

Congress has ignored the needs of our troops in combat, the looming 
bankruptcy of Social Security and Medicare, and the nearly 
insurmountable national debt that threatens the future prosperity of 
our Nation while showing virtually no restraint on spending, especially 
for parochial pork projects.