---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `783a020cd6794f10d0df1b1f1329385c`
`Mr. OBEY — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I did not want to get into this subject yet 
again, but I guess we have to.

I would like to put in perspective why we are here under these 
circumstances. As everyone in this Chamber understands, we have, for 
the last 4 months, been dealing with a national economic emergency, and 
an absolute crisis in terms of the war in the Middle East, especially 
in Pakistan and Afghanistan. So this Chamber has been hugely occupied 
for 4 months.

And now, finally, after finishing our major economic leftovers from 
the previous year, we're now turning to the appropriations bill. The 
hard fact is that everyone says they want appropriation bills to be 
finished individually, not collectively, in an omnibus. And yet, we 
only have 6 weeks to accomplish that. We have to pass 12 major 
appropriation bills in 6 weeks and still leave enough time on the 
calendar to deal with health care, to deal with climate change, to deal 
with the military authorization bill, and several other crucial issues.

So Mr. Hoyer, the majority leader, and I, went to our friends on the 
Republican side of the aisle, went to both the minority leader and the 
ranking member of the committee, and asked whether or not we could 
reach agreement that would enable us to meet that schedule. And we 
pointed out that the schedule that we have set requires that we set 
aside no more than about 8 or 9 hours to debate each of the bills with 
all of the amendments thereto.

We were told that they did not believe that they could participate in 
that kind of a tight schedule. So then we tried to proceed anyway.

We asked Members to prefile amendments so that every Member of this 
House would know what they were expected to vote on. We confronted the 
fact that 127 amendments were filed. That will take at least 23 or 24 
hours, just to debate those amendments. And that blows the entire 
schedule for the entire 6 weeks.

One Member today said, ''Well, what's wrong if it takes 40 hours to 
pass this bill?'' The fact is that that would be one-third of the time 
remaining on the schedule for all 12 appropriation bills.

We've got an obligation to get our work done. And so what Mr. Hoyer 
and I did was even offer the minority leader the opportunity, in a 
compressed number of amendments, to select their own amendments, any 
amendments they wanted. But they did not want to be limited in number 
or time. I don't fault them for it. I'm simply stating facts.

Now, we have one misunderstanding around here. We have the impression 
that somehow appropriation bills have always been considered in open 
rules. The fact is, I have a sheet here which shows 25 previous 
occasions where appropriations have been continued under structured or 
modified, or even closed rules. And this is only when Republicans were 
in control. This does not count the more than a dozen times under 
Democratic control, when we had significantly limited rules for 
appropriation bills, including the Foreign Operations bill, D.C., the 
Defense Bill, Interior and the Legislative Appropriations bill.

So I simply state this, not to get into a perennial argument, but to 
make clear we have tried every way we can to involve the minority. 
We've asked


them several times if they could participate in a compressed schedule.

I don't think that it's necessary to debate all of these bills for 40 
hours. But we are giving--there are going to be 33 amendments offered 
to this bill under the rule, and only nine of them are Democratic 
amendments. The rest are Republican amendments. I think that's treating 
the minority especially fairly.