# THE FALLEN STARS MEMORIAL MURAL
## `7843b357b103f2c9a89ed1641904996c`
`Mr. ARCURI — 22 April 2009`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight the efforts of 
the Herkimer Lions Club, Mohawk American Legion Post 25, Frankfort 
Kiwanis Club, Little Falls Rotary Club, and the Herkimer Polish 
Community Home in creating the Fallen Stars Memorial Mural to honor the 
memory of New York State's fallen soldiers who gave their lives in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

The Fallen Stars Memorial Mural was unveiled Memorial Day 2008 at 
Herkimer County Community College's Veterans Memorial Park, in 
Herkimer, NY. This memorial recognizes 229 brave men and women who 
selflessly and honorably made the ultimate sacrifice for their country 
and this Memorial Day, a second mural will be dedicated to further 
recognize their life and our loss.

I am proud to inform Congress and the nation that each fallen hero 
has been remembered by either a service project improving the quality 
of life in Central New York, or by a donation to a veterans' service 
organization. As a Member of Congress and as a New Yorker, I am forever 
grateful for the commitment and valor of our veterans, and I am touched 
by the spirit of their communities as those they left behind work to 
improve the quality of life for so many in the name of these heroes.

I would like to recognize the following individuals in particular for 
their dedication to this initiative: RJ Lenarcic, Chairman of Special 
Projects for the Herkimer Lions Club; Mimi Martin, spokeswoman for the 
Fallen Stars Tribute whose husband was tragically lost in Iraq in 2007; 
Kay Lenarcic; Kelly Brown; Devin McDonald; Dan Ferguson; Paul Scanlon; 
Elmer Heston; and Bob Critser.

Madam Speaker, it is with great privilege and honor that I recognize 
here today the Fallen Stars Memorial Mural and the individuals who have 
worked so tirelessly to make this memorial a reality, while paying 
respect to the American heroes we have lost too soon.
