# TRIBUTE TO COMMAND SERGEANT MAJOR MICHAEL W. GLAZE
## `78432e046024361e1c4e51346ad24e26`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 31 July 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize and pay tribute 
to Command Sergeant Major Michael W. Glaze, the Regimental Command 
Sergeant Major of the Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States 
Army, for his many years of exceptionally meritorious service to our 
country. Command Sergeant Major Glaze will retire from the United 
States Army on September 1, 2009, having completed a distinguished 32-
year military career. We owe him a debt of gratitude for his many 
contributions to our Nation and the legal profession, particularly 
during operations in support of the Global War on Terror.

He was born in Frankfurt, Germany in 1960, where his father was 
stationed at the time, his father retired from the U.S. Army with the 
rank of Sergeant Major. He enlisted in November 1977, completed Basic 
Training at Fort Knox, Kentucky, Advanced Individual Training at Fort 
Benjamin Harrison, Indiana and Airborne School at Fort Benning, 
Georgia. His initial assignments as a Legal Specialist were at Fort 
Bragg, North Carolina, and Schofield Barracks, Hawaii. He then returned 
to Fort Bragg as a Legal Noncommissioned Officer. Recognized for his 
superior performance, he then served in the Office of the Chief of 
Staff of the Army, where he deployed to Kuwait. Following redeployment, 
he served at the Chief Paralegal at the Fort Belvoir legal office and 
at the United States Army Special Operations Command at Fort Bragg. In 
July 1998, Command Sergeant Major Glaze was selected as the Chief 
Paralegal for XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, where 
he deployed on several occasions to Iraq and Afghanistan to check on 
the welfare of his Soldiers.

Command Sergeant Major Glaze was selected to be the 10th Regimental 
Sergeant Major for the Judge Advocate General's Corps in 2004. On the 
2nd day of October 2006, he was appointed to Command Sergeant Major, 
the first Command Sergeant Major in the 234-year history of the United 
States Army Judge Advocate General's Corps. As the Command Sergeant 
Major of the Judge Advocate General's Corps from March 2004 to 
September 2009, he was the principal advisor to the Judge Advocate 
General of the Army and the Deputy Judge Advocate General regarding all 
enlisted matters for a multi-component force. Additionally, he expertly 
managed the final stages of the Noncommissioned Officers Academy at the 
Judge Advocate General's Legal Center and School, and directed the 
final process for professional accreditation.

Command Sergeant Major Glaze's military awards and decorations 
include: Meritorious Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Army 
Achievement Medal, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, 
Southwest Asia Service Medal, Armed Forces Service Medal, Humanitarian 
Service Medal, Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal, 
Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Ribbon, Army Service 
Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon, the Kuwait Liberation Medal and he is 
also authorized to wear the Parachutist Badge.

A Soldier who embodies the very best of Army Values and the 
Noncommissioned Officer's Creed, Command Sergeant Major Glaze trained 
and mentored a Noncommissioned Officer Corps that truly is the backbone 
of the Judge Advocate General's Corps. His integrity is impeccable, his 
counsel is widely sought, and he remains deeply committed to his 
Soldiers and their families. He is a leader whose honor and candor were 
the hallmark of a career spent in selfless service to the Judge 
Advocate General's Corps, and the United States Army. I know all my 
colleagues join me in saluting Command Sergeant Major Michael W. Glaze 
and his wife, Debbie, for their many years of truly outstanding service 
to the Judge Advocate General's Corps, the United States Army, and our 
great Nation.
