---
---

# None
## `78499e7b428d44c799ef1ef76591e550`
`Mr. FARR — 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. FARR. Mr. Chairman, this is an issue that came up when our 
committee traveled to the border and had discussions with the Border 
Patrol. And what you are talking about here is striking language that 
gives some ability for comparing the expenditure of costs on one piece 
of intelligence equipment versus the other. And what the gentleman 
didn't tell you is that of all the assets on the border, this is the 
most expensive, $10 million, $8 to $10 million per unmanned vehicle. 
The other assets that are on the border, which everybody agreed was 
much more effective, is the new radar system, which costs about 
$700,000, that are portable.

We have others. We have balloons. We have helicopters. We have as 
many assets looking at the border as there are in Iraq. And what the 
language in the bill says is that before you go out and just buy more 
Predators at 8 million bucks, there is already $50 million in the 
account and we want to know before you spend that whether it is cost-
effective compared to other issues that you have to do.

You have on the border not only the Customs and Border Patrol, and I 
would submit that the arrests were not made by that unmanned vehicle, 
and I don't think that was the only system they used to discover that. 
It was just one. It happened to be a very, very expensive one. The 
radar systems are the most effective. The most effective. And you have 
responding to that Customs and Border Patrol that are in aircraft, in 
different kinds of helicopters, including Black Hawk helicopters, you 
have all-terrain vehicles, you have Border Patrol on horseback, you 
have Border Patrol with SUVs, with four-wheel-drive vehicles. You have 
all kinds of response mechanisms and all kinds of detection mechanisms.

But to suggest that we shouldn't even ask the question of whether an 
$8 million expense is more cost-effective than another kind of assets, 
I think, is just ridiculous.

And, frankly, that is one thing the committee found out, that there 
isn't all the money you always want to spend on everything here. There 
have got to be some priorities. And if you have made the priority that 
of the Customs and Border Patrol, this is not what they would spend it 
on.



So I think the amendment and the language in the bill is particularly 
appropriate. It doesn't prohibit the expenditures. It just says before 
you come back and spend up to another $8 billion, compare this to what 
other assets you can buy, and you make the suggestion to us as to what 
is the best expenditure of limited public funds.