# None
## `785c60c9f1e26202e916dc0d51053b4d`
`Mr. WAMP â€” 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. The words we hear in Washington run almost in denial of the 
words of our enemy, of Zarqawi when he was still alive, of Zawahiri 
about expanding the caliphate, reestablishing the caliphate, from 
Morocco to Indonesia, this huge part of the world, to come back with 
Islamic rule. And this is dangerous because they don't believe in a 
theocracy as we do. They don't believe in pluralism. They don't believe 
in the freedom of religion. We believe everyone should have the right 
to worship as they please. This is a Shariah. This is Islamic law they 
are calling for. This is Islamic rule they are calling for, and this is 
where politics, the military and religion all come together. And we 
didn't do that, they are doing it. That's the truth.

Frankly, the left has misled and twisted and distorted and run a PR 
campaign that is driven by politics, denying even the weapons of mass 
destruction realities. Hans Blitz said, Where did the 8,500 liters of 
anthrax that we knew were in Iraq go? Two tractor-trailer loads. 
Probably Syria.

I have news for you, those are weapons of mass destruction. For 
people to say over and over again there weren't weapons of mass 
destruction in Iraq is one of the greatest lies ever told in this 
country.

He gassed his own people. They came running out with their eyes 
bleeding out of their face. Weapons of mass destruction were in Iraq. 
The threats were real. Over half the Democrats of the United States 
Senate voted to remove Saddam Hussein by force, almost half the 
Democrats in the House voted, and now it is convenient to say we should 
retreat, we never should have gone. This was a misguided war.

These men and women in uniform, they know that these threats are real 
and we have to stand up and face these threats. I pay tribute tonight 
to the Guard and Reserve from my State, the 181st where my nephew is at 
Fort Bliss training to go to Iraq right now. And the 278th that just 
came back, the might battery of the Marine Corps Reserve; Colonel Brett 
Hale who just commanded the Dragonslayers in Iraq for a year, my 
constituent, my patriot, my hero, who says in the public square in 
Chattanooga, Tennessee: I have been there and I have seen what we are 
doing. I know that it is important.

These are the people who have been. These are not the people at home 
saying things about the ones who have gone.

Eight brave men from my district have given their life in defense of 
our freedom; and when some people say they have died in vain, it makes 
me angry because they didn't die in vain, nor has any patriot who has 
ever given their life in defense of freedom for this country died in 
vain. Freedom comes with a huge price, and these men and women are 
willing to put their life on the line for us, and we come to the floor 
tonight to honor them so they know we stand behind them.

And there is widespread bipartisan support for our troops. But our 
troops are in harm's way on our behalf. You can't say they shouldn't be 
there, we are not for them; and then say, oh, we are for them. It is a 
paradox. It is just wrong-headed sometimes for the leader of the United 
States Senate to say the war is lost while they are in harm's way 
fighting for what they believe in. They know these threats are real.

We can leave Iraq tomorrow and this threat is not going away. This 
threat is a greater threat to freedom in the world than Nazi Germany 
ever was. It is growing all over the world. Read these books. If you 
haven't read to understand the threat, there is no way you could be 
there to know what is happening in Europe and all across the country. 
The radical elements of Islam have infiltrated through the mosque and 
trained people up all over the world. That is the truth. And they are 
in this country. Nobody wants to hear it because it is not politically 
correct, but that is the truth. I hope, I hope that God showers us with 
his grace so we don't get hit hard again like we did on September 11, 
but the threats are real.

I come to the floor tonight and say ''thank you'' to the men and 
women in uniform on our behalf. All of them. We came to honor General 
Pace tonight, but every one of those Guardsmen and Reservists whose 
families didn't know that they were going to have one or two or even 
three deployments, thank you families for allowing your son or daughter 
or husband to go, or wife to go, on our behalf.