---
---

# None
## `786a5c66c5fdd52b76198131a7cd47b0`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the leadership for 
allowing me to come to the floor of the House this evening and spend 
another hour of The Official Truth Squad, a group of individuals who 
come to the floor at least once a week, we try to, at least, to try to 
shed a little light, a little correct view on the situations that occur 
here in our Nation's Capital and especially here on the House floor.

This group grew out of some frustration by Members on the Republican 
side of the aisle who felt that there was less light and less 
truthfulness being spoken here on the floor of the House, and that so 
often, because of the constrained rules on the floor of the House, we 
and others were prevented from bringing those instances to light. So we 
started what we call The Official Truth Squad, and the leadership has 
been very kind in allowing us to shed that light, bring that truth to 
the Members of the House and hopefully set the record straight so 
often.

We have many favorite sayings. One of them that I enjoy most is one 
from Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who said that everyone is 
entitled to their own opinion, but they are not entitle to their own 
facts.

When you think about it, it's so very true here that if we were to 
deal more in fact that we would have a much better debate, a much 
better discussion, a discussion that would be much more appropriate for 
the American people, and live up to the charge that we have all been 
given, that is, to represent our constituents to the best ability that 
we have.

But facts oftentimes don't hold the day here. But, hopefully, during 
this hour we will be able to bring some light to some very interesting 
matters that have been brought before the House and some that are yet 
to come in the days and the weeks ahead.

It has been a curious time here in Washington since the beginning of 
the year. It's a time of what I have called and dubbed Orwellian 
democracy, Orwellian democracy, because so often what we see is the 
party in charge, the majority party, says one thing and then does 
something completely different. So it harkens back to the author, 
George Orwell, and the double speak that he highlighted.

It's, sadly, distressing that the leadership on the other side of the 
aisle seems to be all politics all the time. It's a shame, because we 
both have just gotten back in town from a week of district work period, 
and I know that you likely heard what I heard at home, and that is that 
folks are frustrated and oftentimes disgusted with the kind of activity 
that goes on here in Washington, the kind of lack of debate, the lack 
of open and honest discussion. The all politics all the time is very 
frustrating to my constituents, and, I suspect, to those of yours as 
well.

Tomorrow is one of those days that will be a classic example of all 
politics all the time. The majority party has seen fit to bring forth, 
and you have heard a lot of folks talk about the issue this evening on 
the other side of the aisle, but they have seen fit to bring forth 
another resolution on the war in Iraq. It's curious that it comes 
literally just hours after the Speaker of the House had an individual 
stand up, who is known to folks far and wide across this Nation, and 
say that she was going to challenge the Speaker in the next election. 
So it appears that the timeliness of this resolution may be, again, all 
politics all the time in response to an electoral challenge that may be 
coming upon the Speaker of the House.

But the sad part about all of this, as it relates to the war in Iraq, 
and we are going to talk about a number of issues tonight, but the sad 
part about the resolution that's coming up tomorrow is that it is all 
just politics. It's not anything about real policy debates for the 
American people; it's not about real action. This Congress, this House 
and the Senate, said relatively recently that we were going to allow 
the reinforcements to run their course in Iraq, that we are going to 
allow General David Petraeus, who is on the ground there, along with 
credible fortitude and gallantry on the part of the American men and 
women, that we were going to allow the increase in the reenforcements 
of the American troops to run their course and see whether or not there 
was progress being made.



Now, just a few short weeks after the number of individuals have 
increased in Iraq, the majority party says, oh, no, we really didn't 
mean that, we need a new bumper sticker, we need a new headline, so 
they are going to bring a resolution on Iraq tomorrow. It is really a 
shame and very sad, because it, again, doesn't add anything to the 
debate, doesn't do anything other than highlight the politics of this 
majority party and the fact that they are having extreme difficulty 
getting any real accomplishments. So they bring another very 
politically motivated resolution on the war in Iraq, Orwellian 
democracy, saying one thing and doing another.

We have been told this is going to be the most open and honest 
Congress, most open and honest Congress ever. Well, the facts of the 
matter, the facts of the matter are that this is one of the most closed 
and clandestine Congresses ever to grace the American public. It is 
really a shame, again, really a shame, because issues aren't being 
debated the way that they should. We will talk very specifically about 
one of those issues tonight.

I want to highlight a couple areas where Orwellian democracy is 
holding forth and living and surviving well with this new majority. As 
you know well, this new majority came to power, and they said we are 
going to cut spending, we are going to decrease spending; we are going 
to be more responsible with spending hard-earned taxpayer money out 
there.

What does this new majority do? They increase spending. They couldn't 
wait to criticize all the spending that went on under the charge of the 
Republican Party when we were in the majority. So what they said, in 
essence, you spent so much, and it was so awful, that we are going to 
spend more. That's what they have done. They have increased spending by 
over $25 billion, $25 billion in the appropriations bills so far, and 
we are barely halfway through, if that, of the appropriations bills.


I would suggest to the American people that it's time to put your 
hands squarely on your wallet, because the true tax-and-spend majority 
is back in charge, and it's of great concern, I know, to my 
constituents and, I suspect, if you talk to yours as well.

When they adopted their budget, they adopted a budget that includes 
the largest tax increase in the history of our Nation, nearly $400 
billion tax increase. Again, not what they said they were going to do, 
and not what they said they have done, as a matter of fact. That's why 
it's Orwellian democracy, because they won't even fess up and own up to 
the fact, the fact that they have passed a budget that includes the 
largest tax increase in the history of our Nation.

Then they go on and they talk about fiscal responsibility. In fact, 
many Members have posters outside their offices up here in Washington. 
Some constituents may have come by the Halls of Congress and seen the 
posters. The posters look wonderful. They talk about the need for 
fiscal responsibility, and the amount of the debt, the amount of the 
deficit. But, in fact, when given the opportunity to decrease the debt, 
and to decrease the deficit, what happens is that they continually say 
no. Orwellian democracy is alive and well.

Just today, just today we passed a bill that was the reauthorization 
of the higher education act for our Nation. But it didn't just 
reauthorize the act and provide more money for students of low-income, 
and ''low'' means to be able to attend colleges and universities. No, 
it didn't just do that. What it did in addition to that was to create 
nine new entitlement programs, nine new entitlement programs.

Now, entitlement programs are really a misnomer. They are programs 
that are on automatic pilot here. They are mandatory spending. They are 
programs that get started, and they never, ever end, because they are 
not able to be touched by the kind of discretionary spending that 
Congress has more control over. They just spend on and on and on, year 
after year.

Yes, this majority created nine new entitlement programs that will 
spend upwards of $18 billion in just a few short years, a new $18 
billion. So there are nine new entitlements, no reform, no reform 
listed for the entitlement programs, which brings me to this issue of 
mandatory spending growth that we have seen in our Nation.

It's comprised of all sorts of mandatory spending programs, 
entitlement programs; but there are three that kind of highlight the 
major problem that we have. Of the nine new ones that they passed 
today, however, they may grow into being as important as these three, 
but the three are Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Those three 
programs, in and of themselves, comprise about 54 percent of our 
Federal budget right now, about 54 percent of our Federal budget. Our 
mandatory programs are mainly Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.

The reason that's important is because these programs are mandatory, 
because they are on kind of automatic pilot, the amount of money, hard-
earned American taxpayer money that comes to Washington that is spent 
on those programs increases gradually every single year.

So what this chart here shows, these pie charts here show is that in 
1995, those three programs comprised about 48.7 percent of the Federal 
budget, about half of the Federal budget just 12 short years ago. Now, 
as I mentioned, about 54, 55 percent of the Federal budget is comprised 
of these mandatory, automatic-spending programs.

In a few short years, 2017, it will be about 62, 63 percent of the 
Federal budget. That's important because one would think that if you 
looked at that slope of increase in spending, slope of increase in 
total spending of the mandatory programs, as it relates to the Federal 
budget, in a relatively short period of time, it's true, as you know, 
that those three programs will comprise the entire Federal budget, the 
entire Federal budget, about 2030, 2035, somewhere in that range, which 
is within the lifetime of most of us here in this Chamber and certainly 
the vast majority of the citizens in our districts.

That's important because something has got to change. You can't have 
these programs continue as they are without appropriate and responsible 
reform.

So one would think that the party in charge would say, well, we have 
got to look at these, and we have got to make certain that we reform 
these programs, otherwise we are going to have all of the Federal money 
going to these three programs.

When our party, my party, was in charge, what we attempted to do was 
to appropriately reform these programs and work diligently to make that 
happen.

So in 1997, with the Balanced Budget Act, we passed entitlement 
reform. We decreased the slope of that line. Now, we didn't end it, 
because of the difficulty in doing that, there are ways to do that, but 
it's extremely difficult both politically and financially to do that.

But in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, we increased by about $137 
billion the entitlement mandatory spending over a period of time. In 
fact, in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2 years ago, of 2005, it was 
about $40 billion in reform, reform spending in those entitlement 
programs. It makes it so that the hard-earned taxpayer money is more 
responsibly spent, that it makes it so that we work diligently to 
decrease the deficit and to decrease the debt.

One would again believe that looking at the previous charts, and 
realizing that these programs are expanding exponentially, and that 
they are very, very soon to comprise a much greater portion of the 
Federal budget, one would say, well, the party in charge probably, when 
they adopted a budget, they would bring about some appropriate reform 
to mandatory programs. That's what I expected. It's what my 
constituents expected.

Frankly, I think it's what the American people expected when they 
went to the polls and voted last November. They expected a more bold 
process for reform of automatic mandatory spending. Many of us on our 
side of the aisle would have been in support of that.

But what happened? You see over on the far right of this chart, it 
shows the amount of entitlement reform under this new leadership. Do 
you remember Orwellian democracy, the talk about fiscal responsibility, 
the talk about importance for entitlement reform, the talk about 
reforming the Federal Government, making it run more efficiently?



Well, what happened is that the budget was adopted by this new 
majority that had no entitlement reform, none. In fact, as I mentioned 
earlier today, nine new entitlement programs adopted, put into place, 
one could make an argument that that not ought to be zero, that ought 
to be minus, that this new majority is going in the wrong direction. 
When they talk about a new direction for America, there is a new 
direction for America, but it's the wrong direction. It's the direction 
of greater debt and greater deficit and greater fiscal 
irresponsibility.



That is not what the American people bargained for. I have no doubt 
about it. Which brings us to the issue that I would like to spend a 
fair amount of time on this evening.

There is a proposal coming forward later this month, within maybe 
just a few short days, that will address the SCHIP program, the State 
Children's Health Insurance program. This is a program that is near and 
dear to my heart. Mr. Speaker, as you may remember, before I came to 
Congress, I was a physician. I was an orthopedic surgeon. I spent over 
20 years practicing orthopedic surgery in Atlanta. And one of the 
things that drove me in to politics, to stand up and say, I would like 
to serve my constituents in the public in this way, was a belief that 
there were individuals both in my State capital and in Washington that 
thought they had a better idea, about almost anything, but especially a 
better idea about health care; that they thought that they could make 
better decisions about health care than the people involved; that is, 
patients.

So the SCHIP program, the State Children's Health Insurance Program, 
is one of those that I think highlights one of the fundamental 
differences, one of the fundamental flaws in this Orwellian Democratic 
leadership, which is that they say one thing and then do something 
completely different. Because what they will say is that they are 
interested in reforming the system and bringing greater health care, 
more health care for more children across our Nation, and, Mr. Speaker, 
what they will do and what they will propose is in fact a program that 
will move us one step closer, one step further down the road to a 
nationalized health insurance program and also one step closer to a 
program that will make it so that patients, parents, doctors are unable 
to make health care decisions. It is not what the American people 
bargained for, there is no doubt about it.

This new majority is obviously driven by the left in our Nation, 
driven by, I think, a small minority of individuals who firmly believe, 
again, that the government knows best; that the government knows best 
how to make all sorts of decisions. But in this instance it is 
personal. It is personal for every single American. Certainly it is 
personal for the children in these programs; because what this program 
is saying and what is being proposed is that the government, that 
Washington knows better what kind of health care you need, and we make 
better decisions. We, politicians, bureaucrats here in Washington, make 
better decisions than individuals, than individuals, than children and 
their parents together.

I think it is helpful that we are having this debate because I think 
it provides that great contrast, that wonderful contrast between the 
party of individual responsibility, and the party that believes that 
patients and parents and their doctors ought to be able to make medical 
decisions, and the party that believes that the government ought to be 
making those decisions.

So I am looking forward to the debate. It is a difficult issue 
because the consequences are so great and the consequences are so 
personal to each and every American. I don't know anybody that believes 
truly that the government can make better health care decisions for 
themselves. I don't know anybody that believes the government can do 
that. So I am looking forward to the debate as we move forward on the 
SCHIP program, the State Children's Health Insurance Program.

I am going to talk a little bit more about that as we go on, but I am 
pleased to be joined by my good friend from Tennessee, Congresswoman 
Marsha Blackburn, who is a leader in so many areas, but especially in 
the area of health care, and serves on the Energy and Commerce 
Committee. I am so pleased to have you join us this evening and share 
your concerns and your knowledge and information about the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program.