---
---

# BUSH BUDGET
## `786c426d69a43e0d12b1cfbe6cec1e52`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Madam Speaker, I would like to speak about the 
budget this morning and the concern that I have that the budget 
President Bush has proposed makes it very clear that his priorities are 
out of touch with everyday Americans. President Bush would rather 
maintain his tax cuts for the wealthiest in our communities, while 
leaving seniors, veterans and working families behind.

He also believes that his budget will rid our Nation of debt in 5 
years, even though he wants to keep spending billions of dollars in 
Iraq and maintain these tax cuts for the most wealthy.

Further, President Bush continuously fails to be up front with the 
American people about the true cost of the war. Even in the 
supplemental that he proposed, he fails to acknowledge the additional 
cost of the troops and support personnel that will be required by the 
troop surge. Folks, the numbers simply don't add up.

I am disappointed that the budget fails to include ample funding for 
the Everglades restoration and beach renourishment, which are an 
important asset and resource in our country. The Everglades and our 
beaches in Florida are not only important to Floridians, but also 
national treasures enjoyed by millions of Americans each year.

It is time for our government to step up to the plate and fulfill its 
commitment to the Everglades, our beaches, and all our other natural 
assets; I am going to fight to make this happen.

President Bush's priorities are out of step, and as we continue to 
debate his budget, I am confident Congress will restore funding to many 
of the programs our American families deserve and depend on.
