---
---

# RECOGNIZING MILITARY WORKING DOG PROGRAM
## `78766c3498348572a93fa3c30c8fbe6d`
`Mr. JONES — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 812, which 
recognizes the significant contribution of the Military Working Dog 
Program to the United States Armed Forces. Dogs have long been known as 
man's best friend. They are brave, loyal, and trustworthy. It is not a 
coincidence that these are the same traits so valued by the United 
States military services. It is these qualities that have made our 
Armed Forces unsurpassed. It is no wonder that the natural bond between 
man and dogs and these shared


characteristics have made military working dogs vital to the success of 
our Armed Forces since the K-9 Corps was established during World War 
II.

Prior to the Second World War, the only dogs employed by the military 
were sled dogs used by the Army in Alaska. War dogs, as they were 
called in World War II, were trained to be sentry dogs, scouts or 
patrol dogs, messenger dogs, and mine-detection dogs. Today, military 
working dogs provide critical services in explosives and narcotics 
detection, sentry, patrol, and tracking, not only to the military 
services but to the Secret Service, Central Intelligence Agency, and 
the Transportation Security Administration.

Currently there are over 2,000 military working dogs serving at 
military bases throughout the world. Over 250 are serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan alongside our troops fighting to rid the word of tyranny 
and terrorism. These dogs are credited with saving countless American 
and coalition lives by their actions and are recognized as a true force 
multiplier and enabler.

Sadly, military working dogs experience the same hardships and 
horrors of combat as the men and women they work to protect, including 
paying the ultimate price with their lives. Since the beginning of the 
program, hundreds of dogs have been killed in action, 281 in the 
Vietnam War alone.

On a brighter note, Madam Speaker, today's military working dogs are 
retired after their lifetime of military service. With the help of the 
countless charitable and community agencies working with the Department 
of Defense, these dogs are placed for adoption after their active duty 
service is over. They bring joy to their adoptive families and serve as 
ambassadors for the Military Working Dog Program.

Madam Speaker, I would like to thank the gentleman from New Jersey 
for introducing this resolution to recognize the extraordinary military 
working dogs. I join him and all of my colleagues to honor these 
incredible dogs and their military handlers and to support adoption of 
military working dogs who have served this Nation so well. I therefore 
strongly urge all Members to support this resolution.

Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman who introduced this 
legislation, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Lance).