---
---

# TEXAS MILITARY VETERANS POST OFFICE
## `787d45c05217329ec97c84ad382c0e17`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 5517, to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 7231 FM 1960 in Humble, Texas, as the ''Texas 
Military Veterans Post Office.'' I would like to thank my colleague, 
Mr. Poe, for introducing this important bill, and Chairman Waxman of 
the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for bringing this 
legislation to the floor today. I strongly support honoring veterans of 
our armed forces, and I am proud to join my colleagues in the Texas 
delegation as an original cosponsor of this legislation. I hope my 
colleagues will join me in designating this facility as the Texas 
Military Veteran Post Office as a token of our appreciation.

The American men and women who serve in our armed forces are one of 
our Nation's most precious resources. Their service to this Nation 
could never be repaid, but we can ensure that our veterans who have 
faithfully served our country receive the recognition they are due and 
the services they need. Passing this resolution will send a strong 
message to our veterans that we appreciate their service. Our Nation 
has a proud legacy of appreciation and commitment to the men and women 
who have worn the uniform in defense of this country. We must show 
every soldier, sailor, airman, and marine that we honor and continue to 
respect their service to our Nation.

Currently, there are 25 million veterans in the United States. There 
are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 
veterans living in my Congressional district alone. I firmly believe 
that we should celebrate our veterans after every conflict, and I 
remain committed, as a Member of Congress, to both meeting the needs of 
veterans of previous wars, and to provide a fitting welcome home to 
those who are now serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Veterans have kept 
their promise to serve our Nation; they have willingly risked their 
lives to protect the country we all love. We must now ensure that we 
keep our promises to our veterans.

Because I feel it is time that we recognize the success of our 
Nation's armed forces, I have introduced H.R. 4020, the ''Military 
Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 2007.'' This legislation 
recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in 
achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq as 
expressed by the Congressional mandate allowing for use of force, 
encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the 
people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration 
commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq.

Most importantly, my legislation provides affirmative and tangible 
expressions of appreciation from a grateful nation to all veterans of 
the war in Iraq. It authorizes the Secretary of Defense to award grants 
to State and local governments ''to conduct suitable activities 
commemorating military success in Iraq'' and ''to create appropriate 
memorials honoring those who lost their lives securing military success 
in Iraq.'' My legislation sets up grants for veterans of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom, stating ''the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall award 
to each veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom a grant in the amount of 
$5,000. The purpose of that grant is to facilitate the veteran's 
transition to civilian life.'' I am pleased that thirteen of my 
colleagues have already signed onto this important legislation.

Renaming this post office facility to honor our veterans is a small 
but important step toward giving veterans the full accolades that they 
deserve. At various points in our Nation's history, we have sent our 
sons and daughters overseas to fight in defense of the great values and 
principles our Nation was founded upon. At times when the need is 
greatest, America's soldiers have always stepped up to protect our 
Nation. Let us show them our gratitude by presenting them with a postal 
facility that stands as a symbol of their dedication and sacrifice. Let 
us never forget that one of the things that makes our Nation truly 
great are the young men and women who have fought to defend it and our 
way of life.

I firmly believe that we must commend the men and women of our 
military for their exemplary performance and success. When World War II 
finally came to an end in 1945, celebrations erupted on the streets of 
cities and towns across our Nation. One of the most enduring images of 
that war is not a picture of bombs or destruction, but of a jubilant 
soldier kissing a woman in New York City's Times Square. The veterans 
we continue to honor as the ''Greatest Generation'' returned home not 
only to open arms, but also to the G.I. Bill, which offered them 
college or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment 
compensation. It also provided loans for returning veterans to buy 
homes and start businesses.

This Congress has begun to show our appreciation through legislation. 
We have already enacted significant increases in veterans' health care 
funding--increasing it by $5.2 billion. The increase will go for 
veterans' health programs, including mental health care for returning 
veterans, especially for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ''As we express our 
gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to 
utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the 
praises of our Nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must 
demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes. I 
strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 5517, to 
designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 
7231 FM 1960 in Humble, Texas, as the ''Texas Military Veteran Post 
Office.''