---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `7883386385770bb3723b8b0a04f4c7a3`
`Mr. DENT — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. DENT. Well, it is a very fair point in many respects. I just want 
to point out something. When I first read this report back in December 
when it was first released, I had some concerns too, like many people, 
about some of the recommendations, particularly the recommendation 
about directly engaging Iran, for all the reasons we have identified. 
Ahmadinejad is a virulent anti-Semite. He has made such inflammatory 
comments. I think we all agree he is a menace.

After listening to Jim Baker and Lee Hamilton talk about the issue, I 
don't think any of us expect there to be any real process in a dialogue 
with Iran at a sub-cabinet level, but I think we also realize that you 
need to have that kind of a conversation initially and let the Iranians 
be an obstruction themselves, so we can then isolate them 
internationally and also perhaps drive a wedge between the Iranian 
Government and the Syrian Government.

I think it makes absolutely no sense for the Syrians to be engaged in 
destructive behavior in Iraq, given the fact that they have more than 1 
million refugees, primarily Sunni, who are in Syria. Of course, Syria 
is ruled by Allawites, who represent about 10 percent of that country. 
So it is clearly not in Syria's interest to have protracted instability 
in Iraq.

So, again, I just wanted to thank the gentleman from Connecticut for 
his thoughtful idea about getting the Iraq Study Group back over there, 
perhaps hearing what General Petraeus says and make some 
recommendations on what he has said, and maybe give us a bipartisan way 
for us to move forward.

I think Americans want a solution. They don't want an issue in Iraq, 
but they want a solution. I think that is one of the great things about 
this dialogue tonight.



I yield back to the gentleman from New York.