---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `7897e3359f85780101a83a8561e95bf9`
`Mr. MARKEY — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. MARKEY. Madam Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I come to 
the floor today to debate funding for President Bush's war in Iraq, yet 
again, as more innocent Americans and Iraqis fall victim to a horrible 
and debilitating violence that has not only torn Iraq apart, but 
threatens the stability of the entire Middle East.



We should not be having this debate at all, because the President 
should have changed course long ago. The President has had so many 
opportunities to reevaluate his policies in Iraq that his failure to do 
so can only be explained by an absolute unwillingness to admit that he 
has made a grave mistake. He continues to act as if nothing is wrong, 
even as Baghdad burns and the body count of dead Iraqi civilians and 
dead American troops continues to rise. He continues to send more 
troops to Iraq even as the Army, Marines, and National Guard are all 
straining to the breaking point. He continues to ignore the will of the 
American people who want an end to this war, even as public opinion 
turns ever more decisively against his failed war policy

Madam Speaker, it is far past time for a new direction in Iraq. The 
American people do not want to be there, and the Iraqis do not want to 
have us there. Only the President and his dwindling cadre of head-in-
the-sand advisors believe that the United States is on the right course 
in Iraq.

I am tremendously disappointed that the President, in the face of the 
utter collapse of his policies in Iraq, refuses to change course. I 
supported the first supplemental bill we passed this year for a simple 
reason: It contained language to force an end to this disastrous war. 
But in his legendary stubbornness and his inability to see reason, the 
President vetoed that bill. I also supported the House version of the 
second supplemental appropriations bill, because that bill established 
strict benchmarks for progress by the Iraqi Government and military and 
required the President to certify that progress to the Congress, or 
else face a cutoff of funds to pursue the war.

But the supplemental that we will vote on today does not require the 
troops to come home, and does not establish strict benchmarks to ensure 
accountability, and for these reasons I will oppose it. But today's 
vote does not end the effort in Congress to end the war. There will be 
future votes, and I believe that as the public continues to make its 
opposition to this war clear, there will be continued pressure on the 
White House and on congressional Republicans to change course. We will 
end this war eventually, but today I must oppose this appropriations 
bill because it fails to take the steps needed to advance the goal of 
bringing our valiant troops home.