# RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AS AN  INDEPENDENT MILITARY SERVICE
## `7897534e517cd0f5e20cd914b63fe3aa`
`Mr. STEARNS — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution. And 
as a former Air Force officer and veteran and one of the co-founders of 
the House of Representatives Air Force Caucus, I know firsthand how the 
Air Force provides our Nation a unique military advantage, obviously, 
indispensable in war and peace, to know what is happening around the 
globe, to lend a hand with humanitarian assistance, to deter nations 
that would use aggression to bully their neighbors, and to defend our 
Nation when we are attacked and dealt a decisive blow to our foes.

But I bring to your attention, my colleagues, something that perhaps 
would not be talked about, that this supremacy could be threatened. And 
so I wish to, in this short amount of time talk about, although the Air 
Force has an overwhelming advantage right now, we are now at a point 
where a lot of the equipment is growing old.

Our Air Force flies the oldest aircraft that we have ever had to 
support, and they will be getting older and more costly to maintain if 
nothing is done to reverse this trend.

Both our B-52s, our KC-135s average 46 years old today. In 2030 
they'll be 68 years old. Our A-10s average 26 years old today. In 2030 
they'll be almost 50 years old. Though the Air Force is the youngest 
service, it has the most to lose in the fight against complacency.

Our Air Force is constantly in demand by combat commanders around the 
globe, but the size of our Air Force is the smallest it's ever been in 
decades. The Air Force had approximately 4,400 fighters in 1985. Today 
we have 2,500.



In 2030 it will have fewer than 1,400. Despite technological 
improvements, the Air Force cannot fulfill its global missions without 
sufficient force structure. Aircraft simply cannot be in two places at 
once, whether in Korea or Afghanistan or above New York City.

So for all of its immense accomplishments, the Air Force still faces 
formidable challenges as it enters the seventh year of the global war 
on terrorism. Losing our airpower edge is not a responsible option. We 
must ensure this does not happen.

In closing, let me leave you with the words of one of the Air Force 
founders, Five-Star General Hap Arnold. His words still ring true today 
and are especially poignant as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the 
United States Air Force:

''Our Air Force belongs to those who come from ranks of labor, 
management, the farms, the stores, the professions, and colleges and 
legislative halls . . . Air power will always be the business of every 
American citizen.''

I rise today to honor and celebrate the 60th anniversary of the 
United States Air Force. The Air Force is the world's dominant source 
of air and space power. America can rightly claim to be the greatest 
military power--a power that affords us prosperity and security. This 
status is due in no small part to our overwhelming supremacy in air and 
space. However, what is most impressive is the integrity and dedication 
of the men and women of the Air Force who work hard everyday to ensure 
air supremacy.

The Air Force is the youngest of our Nation's military branches. It 
is able to adapt in time and space by changing position. The effects 
the Air Force can achieve through perspective, range and endurance are 
those no other military instrument can execute. Our Nation's ability to 
gain an advantage over our enemies by exploiting air and space is 
unsurpassed.

The overwhelming advantages afforded to our Nation by the Air Force 
can be lost through inattention to modernization or by under-funding 
force structure. We are now at a point, after 17 years of continuous 
combat--from Desert Storm, Bosnia and Kosovo to Iraq and Afghanistan 
today--where our Nation's continued superiority in air and space is at 
risk.

Our Air Force flies the oldest aircraft that we have ever had to 
support--and they will be getting older and more costly to maintain if 
nothing is done to reverse the trend. Both our B-52s and KC-135s 
average 46 years old today; in 2030, they will average 68 years old. 
Our A-10s average 26 years old today; in 2030, they will average 49 
years old. Though the Air Force is the youngest service, it has the 
most to lose in the fight against complacency.

Our Air Force is constantly in demand by combatant commanders around 
the globe but the size of our Air Force is the smallest it has been in 
decades. The Air Force had approximately 4,400 fighters in 1985, today 
we have around 2,500, and in 2030 it will have fewer than 1,400. 
Despite technological improvements, the Air Force cannot fulfill its 
global missions without sufficient force structure--aircraft simply 
cannot be in two places at once, whether in Korea and Afghanistan or 
above New York City.

Never before has the Nation's ability to project military power 
depended so heavily on air and space capabilities. Whether it is the 
principal actor or a supporting force, the Air Force brings to the 
fight unsurpassed air, space, and cyberspace capabilities--adding 
strength, flexibility, and resilience to the joint force. In many 
cases, other U.S. military branches would not be able to carry out 
their missions without the Air Force.

Much has changed over the years. The Air Force is flying unmanned 
aircraft over Iraq and Afghanistan controlled by airmen from bases in 
the United States and other remote locations around the world. 
Moreover, investments in air and space technologies have produced 
precision that would have been unimaginable even 15 years ago. Accuracy 
of weapons is now measured in mere feet from the target.