# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `78a4e03853dcc4148712c4bc4a1c7f89`
`Mr. INHOFE — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, today I rise to remember the life of one 
of America's heroes, Marine CPL Jeremy David Allbaugh. Corporal 
Allbaugh came from Luther, OK, and graduated from nearby Harrah High 
School. Before graduating, he was chosen to be a U.S. marine, becoming 
a member in the 1st Battalion, 4th Marines. Tragically, Jeremy died on 
July 5, while conducting combat operations in Al Anbar Province near 
the city of al-Qa'im, when his humvee was struck by an improvised 
explosive device.

There are no words that can truly express the dedication and 
selflessness of this young marine. There are no words that can 
adequately convey our thoughts for their loss to his family, who are 
here with us today. They have given everything to our country, 
something many find it difficult to comprehend and a sacrifice fewer 
will ever face. But I will say these words so as to honor Jeremy's last 
request, a request which America will always oblige her heroes, which 
was: ''Remember me.''

Before deploying to Iraq with his Marine unit, Jeremy had a 
conversation with his brother, Army 2LT Jason Allbaugh, in which Jeremy 
made two simple requests. He said: If something happens to me, do me a 
favor. Jeremy said: Do two things for me. Take care of mom and dad, and 
remember me.

Jeremy, today we do that. We remember your life of service and thank 
you for giving the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our Nation.

Growing up, Jeremy seemed destined to become a marine. His brother 
Jason--and I visited with him--said as far back as he could remember, 
Jeremy wanted to be a marine. Most kids had the conventional costumes 
on Halloween but not Jeremy. He wore fatigues. Jeremy also wore a 
camouflage backpack to school. His dream became reality 3 years ago 
when, 2 months shy of his 18th birthday and prior to graduating from 
high school, Jeremy joined the Marine Corps. His father Jon and his 
mother Jenifer, seeing how much Jeremy loved his country and his desire 
to serve, supported his decision and gave their permission.

That decision could not have been an easy one. All parents can 
understand their concern, especially parents of our servicemembers who 
face the possibility that their son or daughter could see combat in 
Iraq, Afghanistan or anyplace else in the world. Although their concern 
was great, I am sure it was surpassed only by the enormous pride they 
felt for their son Jeremy.

Jeremy, driven by a sense of duty, was willing to leave the comfort 
of his family and friends and the life he knew and answer the call for 
his country. Jeremy arrived in Iraq this past April. Jenifer said in 
Jeremy's weekly phone calls he gave the family a much different picture 
of what was going on in Iraq compared to what was being reported in the 
media. There were a lot of good things being done there, Jeremy told 
his family. There were Neighborhood Watch programs, new schools, 
hospitals, clinics being built in the area where he was assigned. I 
know this is true because I was there when Jeremy was there, and I saw 
this for myself in some 15 trips to the area of operation in Iraq.

When asked how the local Iraqi people treated the marines, Jeremy was 
upbeat. ''They appreciate what we do,'' he said. Jeremy believed in the 
positive changes he saw happening in Iraq, and he loved being a part of 
it.

Jenifer wishes so desperately that the American people knew and 
understood the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform. She hopes 
that more people will start to talk firsthand to our troops who are 
over there, not only to politicians in Washington. I, too, wish more 
people would talk to our troops who are over there and see their pride, 
their courage, their sense of honor and duty. Jeremy exemplified these 
qualities.

Maybe that is why Jenifer wishes people would talk to the troops, 
because she knows they would be talking to men and women similar to her 
own son.

Similar to so many of America's fallen heroes, Jeremy was young, only 
21-years-old, when an IED took his life. Jeremy joined the Marine Corps 
after
9/11 and after the beginning of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He knew what 
it meant to serve. He knew what it meant to be a marine. He knew what 
chances he was taking. Jeremy's courage and selflessness are common for 
someone of his young age serving over there. Perhaps Jeremy's last 
wish, the wish that he be remembered, was his most selfless act.

When we remember Jeremy, we remember that which is great about our 
country, and his death will force us to remember the sacrifices of 
those throughout our history who have given their lives in defense of 
the Nation. We remember; we will always remember.

Rev. Jeff Koch, Pastor of the First Christian Church of Blackwell, 
OK, where Jeremy was honored before being laid to rest, said Jeremy 
''paid the ultimate sacrifice so tonight we can sleep easy.''

I, too, believe this. Because of Jeremy's sacrifice, America can 
sleep easier. But I will rest easier knowing Jeremy lived and that, 
though they are rare, men and women similar to Jeremy are out there 
right now, protecting our lives and freedoms and our liberties. In this 
long war against terrorism and tyranny, America will continue to rely 
on men and women such as Jeremy, men and women who have been called to 
duty, men and women willing to put service before self.

We remember the life of Jeremy David Allbaugh, a marine, a friend, a 
brother, a grandson, and a son. We remember and pray for his family, 
father Jon; mother Jenifer; brothers Jason and Bryan; sister Alicia; 
and his grandparents, John, Dorothy, and Peggy.

Today, on the floor of this great deliberative body and in the annals 
of our Record, we mourn Jeremy's passing and forever honor and remember 
his life. Jeremy Allbaugh is a living memory to us, of what is great 
about America.

So we say: Rest easy, Jeremy. Semper Fidelis.
