---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `78ad71778443e9240092f441fd6e3e02`
`Mr. McCAUL of Texas — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCAUL of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of our 
troops and in support of victory in Iraq.

It is hard to ignore the inconvenient truth that this ill-timed 
measure will aid the terrorists and depress the morale of our soldiers 
who are fighting to defeat them. It also sends a wrong message to our 
troops at exactly the wrong time. They are carrying out their mission, 
as I speak, while we here in the Congress are condemning them.

It amazes me that at the same time General Petraeus was confirmed by 
the Senate, this resolution was introduced condemning his 
counterinsurgency plan for victory.

Never in our history has this country sent a war leader into battle, 
while condemning the very mission that he and the Armed Forces will be 
leading.

Make no mistake, this resolution is the first step towards cutting 
off funding for our troops. As a consultant to the Iraq Study Group, I 
supported the findings that failure is not an option, and that a troop 
surge is necessary for security and stability. I also supported the 
recommendation that a political and diplomatic surge is essential for 
peace.

The time for evaluating the success or failure of this endeavor will 
come soon enough, but now is not the time to be sending a message to 
friend and foe alike that we no longer believe in the mission.

But many in this country and many in this Chamber insist it is in 
America's interest to surrender and retreat from our obligation to help 
Iraq build a stable democracy. They say that, knowing full well the 
consequences of an early American withdrawal.

And what are those consequences? Chaos, instability in the region, 
and, in al Qaeda's own words, a threat that America has never seen 
before.

Recently, the ambassadors from Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia told me 
that ''if the U.S. fails here, it will be catastrophic. We are in this 
together. They will come after us and then they will come after you.'' 
And then they will come after you.

Recently, after meeting with them, I had to say to myself, how will 
history then judge us; that when we stood at the brink, we chose 
retreat over advancement, surrender over victory, and defeatism for our 
children and for future generations?

Let us remember the words of President Kennedy, when he said: ''Let 
every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay 
any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, 
oppose any foe, to assure the survival and success of liberty.''

Where is the party of President Kennedy today? This resolution sends 
a clear message across the Islamic jihad world that we will not bear 
any burden, that we will not oppose any foe, that we have lost our 
will, that they have won, and that they can come and they can get us.

I believe Abraham Lincoln summed it up best by saying that from these 
honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they 
gave the last full measure of devotion, that we here highly resolve 
that these dead shall not have died in vain.

As Members of Congress, the most sobering job that we have is to 
comfort the families left behind in a time of


great loss and a time of war. I have stood by, like many of my 
colleagues, to honor those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for 
freedom. We all stand here today indebted to those brave Americans and 
their families.

And because those heroes and those families cannot speak on the floor 
of the House, I would like to share some of their words here with you 
today. And these are the words of Janet Norwood, a constituent, a Gold 
Star Mother, whose son, Byron, was killed in Fallujah while serving in 
Iraq. And she said: In the past I have always had great hope for this 
country. But, for the first time, during the State of the Union address 
last month, I had real doubts. I had doubts about our winning this war 
on terrorism. She said, When President Bush used the word ''victory,'' 
only half of the room stood to applaud. My heart sank. It was obvious 
to me at that moment that party affiliation was more important to some 
than victory over evil and the sacrifice our son and other sons have 
made.

Well, to Janet and all the other Gold Star Mothers, I say, I couldn't 
agree more. And as Abraham Lincoln said, a house divided cannot stand.

September 11 changed our lives forever. But the war on terror started 
long before that. The year 1979 changed the world. When Iran took our 
embassy hostage, the seeds of Islamic jihad were spread all over the 
Middle East.

These seeds planted hatred and contempt for freedom in the souls of 
men like Osama bin Laden. In 1983, they murdered our marines in Beirut. 
In 1993, Ramzi Yousef and his al Qaeda associates bombed the World 
Trade Center. They were supposed to fall that day, but that day would 
come later.

They struck the Khobar Towers in 1996. They bombed our embassies in 
Africa. They defeated us in Somalia. And they deliberately attacked the 
USS Cole.

Each time we failed to respond. And then came September 11. It was as 
if the United States was a sleeping giant. And not until the bloodiest 
alarm of 9/11 did the giant finally awake. And America cannot afford to 
go back to sleep again.

''It is hard to ignore the inconvenient truth that this ill-timed 
measure will aid the terrorists and depress the morale of our soldiers 
who are fighting to defeat them.'' It also sends the wrong message to 
our troops at the wrong time. They are carrying out their mission as I 
speak, while we here in Congress are condemning it.

The time for evaluating the success or failure of this endeavor will 
come soon enough, but now is not the time to be sending a message to 
friend and foe alike that we no longer believe in this mission.

It amazes me that just as General Petraeus was confirmed by the 
Senate, this resolution was introduced condemning his counter-
insurgency plan for victory.

''Never in our history has this country sent a war leader into battle 
while condemning the mission that he and the armed forces he will be 
leading have been asked to complete.''

Make no mistake; this resolution is the first step towards cutting 
off funding for our troops. As a consultant to the Iraq Study Group, I 
supported the findings that a troop surge is necessary for security and 
stability. I also supported the recommendation that a political and 
diplomatic surge is essential for victory.

But many in this country, and many in this chamber, insist it is in 
America's interest to surrender and retreat from our obligation to help 
Iraq build a stable democracy. They say that, knowing full well the 
consequences of an early American withdrawal.

And what are those consequences--

Chaos. Instability in the region. A threat that America has never 
seen before. A threat that we will not be able to blindly put our head 
in the sand and wish it to go away.

Al Qaeda has openly said that they consider Iraq the central front in 
the ''Third World War.'' Their goal is to create a Caliphate with 
Baghdad as its capital. Their plan is to then conquer the rest of the 
world and force all humanity to submit to Radical Islam.

The National Intelligence Estimate released last month stated, ''If 
Coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly . . . this almost certainly 
would lead to a significant increase in the scale and scope of 
sectarian conflict in Iraq.''

Our allies agree. The Ambassadors from Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia 
recently told me, ''If the U.S. fails it will be catastrophic. We are 
in this together . . . they will come after us and then they will come 
after you.''

How will history judge us then? That when we stood at the brink we 
chose retreat over advancement, surrender over victory, and defeatism 
for our children and for future generations.

Let us remember the words of President Kennedy when he said:




 Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, 


 that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any 


 hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the 


 survival and the success of liberty.''


Where is the party of President Kennedy today? This resolution sends 
a clear message across the Islamic Jihad world--that we will not bear 
any burden--that we will not oppose any foe--that we have lost our 
will--that they have won--that they can come and get us.

We are better than that.

We are Americans--the same Americans who defeated the most powerful 
country in the world at the time to win our independence.

We are the same Americans who defeated Fascists in Japan, Germany and 
Italy.

We are the same Americans who defeated the scourge of the Soviet 
Union, liberating millions more.

Now we face yet another challenge--defeating the jihadists and an 
ideology of hate. But our colleagues on the other side of the aisle say 
''We will support the War on Terror, except where the terrorists have 
chosen to fight it.''

Our previous struggles were not easy, they were hard and required 
great sacrifice. Yet all of these challenges were met, and victory was 
won, and the world is a better place because of it. This struggle is 
the same. If we give up now, we betray not just the Iraqi people, and 
not just our place in history, but those who have paid the ultimate 
sacrifice.

I believe Abraham Lincoln summed it up best by saying:




 .
.
.
that from these honored dead we take increased 


 devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full 


 measure of devotion--that we here highly resolve that these 


 dead shall not have died in vain
.
.
.



As Members of Congress, the most sobering job we have is to comfort 
the families left behind in a time of great loss, in a time of war. I 
have stood by, like many of my colleagues, to honor those who have paid 
the ultimate price for freedom. We all stand here today indebted to 
those brave Americans and their families. They are true heroes.

Because those heroes and their families cannot speak on the Floor of 
the House, I would like to share some of their words today. These are 
the words of Janet Norwood, a constituent and Gold Star Mother, whose 
son Byron was killed serving in Iraq. She said:




 In the past, I have always had great hope for this country, 


 but for the first time, during the State of the Union Address 


 last month, I had real doubts about our winning this War on 


 Terrorism. When President Bush used the word ''victory'' and 


 only half of the room stood to applaud, my heart sank. It was 


 obvious to me at that moment that party affiliation was more 


 important to some than victory over evil and the sacrifice 


 our son and others have made.


To Janet and all of the other Gold Star Mothers, I say, ''I couldn't 
agree more.'' As President Lincoln once said, ''A House Divided Cannot 
Stand.''