# None
## `78ca7734305f5ce18bb484bd39a632eb`
`Mr. TAYLOR — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. TAYLOR. Let me begin by thanking our chairman and ranking member 
for the phenomenal job they've done.

Let me begin by telling the gentleman from Virginia that I agree with 
much of what he said. I would also remind the gentleman from Virginia 
that, like him, I voted to send those young men and women to Iraq and 
Afghanistan. With that vote came my commitment to equip them, to pay 
them, to take care of their families should something bad happen to 
them, to provide them with the very best equipment.

The one thing that every American can agree on is we have the world's 
best Army. We have the world's best Navy. We have the world's best 
Marine Corps. We have the world's best Air Force. This bill keeps it 
that way.

I regret that the other body, by a vote of 87-7, put some language in 
there that should never be in this bill. But the bottom line is, come 
November, sometime between Thanksgiving and Christmas, I'm going to be 
visiting at least 7,000 Mississippians, to the best of my ability 
trying to see every one of them that I voted to send there. And when I 
look them in the eye, I want them to know that I voted in support of 
them over the reservations of one small part of this bill.

The bill does a lot of good things for our Navy. It pays for seven 
new ships: a DDG-51 class destroyer, the best Destroyer in the world, 
one that we're going to build for at least another decade; two Littoral 
Combat Ships; two T-AKE dry cargo ships; a Joint High Speed Vessel; and 
a Virginia class submarine.

It includes language to see to it that our next generation of 
carrier, with the all-important electromagnetic launch system, will 
have the proper oversight so that it is delivered on time and on 
budget. It includes language to see that the Littoral Combat system 
that, to date, has been poorly handled will be done better in the 
future with a 10-ship buy, followed by a 5-ship buy, at the best price 
for whoever is willing to make that ship.

It funds the F-18E/F program, the world's best fighter, except for 
the F-22, and, quite frankly, a lot more affordable fighter than the F-
22.

Lastly, it includes $6 billion for the most important weapon in our 
inventory at the moment, and that is the next generation of mine 
resistant vehicles. Look at the casualty list from Afghanistan. Almost 
every casualty is a result of an improvised explosive device on a 
vehicle that is not mine resistant.

The magnificent vehicles that we have built that work so well in Iraq 
and have saved so many lives in Iraq were, unfortunately, too big and 
too bulky for the terrain in Afghanistan. That's why we have to come up 
with a second-generation vehicle. This bill funds 5,000 of those 
vehicles that when they are delivered, from day one, will start saving 
lives and bring our friends and our family members back home with their 
limbs.

So, Mr. Speaker, again, like many of you, I have very, very, very 
deep concerns and, in fact, anger over some language that was included 
in this bill. But that is not enough to keep me from voting for funding 
the troops that serve our Nation so well, giving them the equipment 
they deserve.