---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `78ddc177db35559fa0c22747592f2a86`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. To the gentleman from Arkansas, 
thanks very much for your leadership on many of the issues that our 
Blue Dog Coalition championed here in the House. We championed them for 
many years, about 1994, 1995, when the Blue Dogs were established.

Basically, this group of individuals initially offered both sides, 
both caucuses, the opportunity to participate in the Blue Dogs, 
Republican and Democrats alike.

I have always continued to feel very confident that in America today 
we need American Democrats and American Republicans more than ever. 
What I mean by that is that we need Americans first and political 
parties next. Certainly those two political parties have done a 
tremendous job in driving many of the debates on many of the important 
issues important in America.

It has also given America a history as being the country in the world 
that championed civil rights, individual rights, and civil liberties; 
and we continue to do that. In many cases, as we


have engaged in battlefields throughout history, it has been to bring 
about democracy and freedom.

But as we talk about this, I want to digress just a moment and talk 
about a particular situation that is being considered today, which will 
be what's called combat training for our airmen. In many cases we put 
our soldiers who are in the Air Force in the battlefield, the battle 
zones, in places like Afghanistan and Iraq, in my opinion, without 
proper training for EMS, in the event there is something that happens 
that they are in the battlefield, they may be injured. I don't think 
they are properly trained, and, in many cases, we need to do that. So 
we are actually talking now about locating CBAT, which will be combat 
training for airmen in different areas.

I want to read a comment that I have prepared for the potential 
location of this particular facility.

From the Manhattan Project to TVA to the Apollo project to the 
Spallation Neutron Source and so much more, the Tennessee Valley 
Corridor and its key institutions, communities, businesses, and 
congressional leaders have always exemplified the phrase, ''National 
Leadership through Regional Cooperation.''

Key leaders in our region continue to support our Nation by working 
to enhance and advance the corridor's key science technology and 
national security assets.

With that, one of the big challenges in warfare is adequate training 
for our combat troops. Afghanistan and Iraq have placed a new demand on 
the airmen of our Air Force for needed combat air support. These 
increased demands include prison guard duty, combat convoy support, and 
significant expanded security force duty.

With these additional responsibilities, the Air Force has 
acknowledged its airmen are lacking the ground combat skills necessary 
to meet today's demands. To address these needs, the Air Force has 
proposed, as former Air Force Secretary Roche has described it, a new 
program to ''bring together our battlefield airmen under a common 
training and organization structure to strengthen the combat power they 
bring to the fight.''

Weapons training, tactical field cooperation operations and land 
navigation training, basic combat skills, physical fitness training and 
basic medical training will be a part of the core curriculum provided 
by new Common Battlefield Airman Training (CBAT) program.

The proposed location for this new Common Battlefield Airman Training 
program has now been narrowed down to three potential sites, one of 
which is in my district, Arnold Engineering Development Center in 
Arnold Air Force Base near Tullahoma, Tennessee.

Key leaders in the Tennessee Valley Corridor and I are convinced that 
establishing CBAT at Arnold Air Force Base would be the best course of 
action, an exceptional investment for the Air Force and the Nation. 
Arnold Air Force Base and the Arnold Engineering Development Center are 
already home to the world's premier flight simulations testing facility 
and continue to be vital national resources in the development of many 
of the Nation's top priority aerospace and national defense programs.

Arnold, with its history of extensive combat training during World 
War II, had abundant land available for CBAT training, with a dedicated 
200-acre campus, small arms firing range and 9,000 acres for additional 
required training. In short, middle Tennessee and the Tennessee Valley 
Corridor have a world-class facility ready and willing to house this 
important new training operation.

The Coffee County community, the middle Tennessee/north Alabama 
region and, indeed, the entire Tennessee Valley Corridor strongly 
support our Nation's Armed Forces and their training needs as they 
continue to serve and defend our Nation. A better trained corps of 
airmen will not only give them the ability to operate more effectively 
in a combat zone and a better chance of survival, but will also help 
them better defend the United States in our post-9/11 world.

I strongly support and encourage all others to support Arnold Air 
Force Base's pursuit of this new CBAT program.

As we continue to train our soldiers who are on the battlefields 
throughout the world, certainly in the two hot spots today, perhaps we 
should say three, which would also include the area around the Balkans, 
we need to adequately train them. It's not right; it's not American to 
send someone into the battlefield without being properly trained.

I know we have others who want to speak here tonight; but I would 
like, if I could, before I yield to the gentleman from Arkansas, I 
would like to read an editorial that I sent to one of our local papers, 
and it deals with PAYGO, as we will address our deficits here in 
Congress:

''At a time when the White House is attempting to position the 
Republican Party as fiscally responsible, former Federal Reserve 
Chairman Alan Greenspan bluntly said in his new book 'The Age of 
Turbulence: Adventures in a New World' that his party over the past 
several years put politics over fiscal discipline and lower government 
spending.'' At least one honest Republican.

''During the past several years while we were witnessing the largest 
growth of government since the 1960s and a ballooning deficit, Mr. 
Greenspan was correct in advocating for a return to pay-as-you-go 
rules. These rules, re-enacted earlier this year after they helped 
restore fiscal discipline in Washington during the 1990s, require 
Congress to offset the cost of new spending or tax cuts with savings 
elsewhere.

''The Blue Dog Coalition, a growing band of deficit hawk Democrats 
with a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security 
of the United States, has been pushing to reimplement PAYGO for several 
years. Their bark was finally heard earlier this year when they pushed 
the new congressional leadership to enforce the policy.

''When PAYGO was in place in the 1990s, spending as a percentage of 
gross domestic product (GDP) declined from 22.1 percent to 18.5 percent 
by 2001. As a result, huge budget deficits became a budget surplus. 
Shortly after President Bush took office, the Congress unwisely let 
PAYGO expire, causing an explosion in government spending and yearly 
budget deficits. Our national debt grew by $3 trillion over this 
period, and by 2005, spending had clawed its way back to 20.1 percent 
of GDP.''

Let's think about that a moment: $3 trillion increase since this 
President has been in office. What does that mean?

We roughly spend $450 billion a year today on interest alone. That's 
$1.2 billion a day. But let's just take the last 5 years since 2001, or 
6 years since 2001, and look at how that $3 trillion is impacting our 
budget.

For instance, today, if we had continued down the path and just had a 
balanced budget, not necessarily a surplus but just a balanced budget, 
we wouldn't be spending $150 billion-plus extra in interest. Think of 
what that would do. We are spending today over 125, $130 billion in 
Iraq, supposedly, in Iraq, probably more than that. But, in essence, 
what we have done in the last 6/1/2/ years, or last 6 years and 9 
months of this administration, under control of the Republican White 
House and under the control of the Republican leadership on the other 
side of the aisle, we have increased just our portion of the interest, 
not retiring the debt, by over $150 billion a year. That in itself, 
that figure itself, alone, is over six times what the entire budget of 
the State of Tennessee is in one year.

So I think it's time that we again reclaim for this Nation fiscal 
responsibility and continue to be the strong defense hawks that our 
caucus, our Blue Dogs, has been.