# None
## `78efc71e8b33c5dbde1e24e5c6b9384c`
`Ms. GRANGER — 19 April 2007`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of our 
troops fighting in Iraq and the plan put forth by General Petraeus to 
win this war.

Democrat Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he believes the war 
is lost and the surge is failing. What a terrible message for our 
troops fighting this very minute. Instead of a road map to success, we 
are being asked to support a plan for defeat. We are being asked to 
announce to our enemies a date for surrender. Do we think the 
terrorists will lay down their weapons and go their merry way if we 
leave? History reminds us otherwise. When the Soviet Union left 
Afghanistan in the 1980s, the radical Islamists did not lay down their 
weapons; in fact, they demolished the Afghani Government and took 
power.

So what can we expect when we announce today that we are closing, 
that we are losing, and announce tomorrow that we will leave? Al Qaeda 
leaders have publicly declared their mission is to expel the Americans 
from Iraq and establish an Islamic emirate in Iraq. So we have taken 
them at their word with this surge and showed a new determination to 
win. In the seven weeks since the surge began, the number of weapon 
stockpiles we have found has doubled. More tips are coming in from 
Iraqis who want peace and stability to take hold of their country. 
Sunni leaders are turning against al Qaeda and Iraqi troops are 
standing up. Just yesterday, the Iraqi troops took charge of security 
in the southern province of My Soon, the fourth province to come under 
full Iraqi security patrol.

General Petraeus is coming next week to brief the Congress on our 
progress. How are we going to greet this brave general, good morning, 
General Petraeus, we've decided to run the war? What we need to do as 
responsible Members of Congress is to exercise our oversight, fund and 
support our troops, ensure that we give them what they need as they 
fight for our freedom, what they and their families need as they 
return, and give this plan a chance, paying close attention to its 
progress.

There is too much at stake in Iraq for responsible leaders to 
advocate allowing the region to spiral into chaos, and we can't ignore 
the threat of failure for our country and our citizens.