---
---

# HONORING SEEDS OF PEACE
## `7904c62bbecf609f5f7754bc80d59c81`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Con. Res. 337, ''Honoring the Seeds of Peace for its 15th 
Anniversary as an Organization.'' I would like to thank my colleague 
Congressman


Allen for introducing this important resolution, which I am proud to 
cosponsor, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
Congressman Berman, for his leadership in bringing this resolution to 
the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, fifteen years ago, in 1993, Seeds of Peace hosted its 
first international conflict resolution camp. In that first year, 
amidst regional conflict and fighting a history of hatred, the 
organization brought together Israeli, Palestinian, Jordanian, and 
Egyptian youth. Founded by journalist John Wallach, Seeds of Peace 
initially brought together 46 Israeli and Arab youth. Since that time, 
Seeds of Peace has offered summer camps for youths from conflict 
regions around the world and from the United States, involving young 
people from the initial countries as well as from Greece, Turkey, 
Cyprus, the Balkans, India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. These summer 
camps have made enormous strides toward fostering cultural and 
religious understanding.

Seeds of Peace empowers a new generation of leaders with the tools 
they need to overcome prejudice and to communicate and negotiate 
effectively. The summer camps help these youth to develop empathy, 
respect, and confidence, while giving their ''enemies'' a human face. 
The young people who attend these summer camps are the same people who 
will grow up to build a future of peace and stability. There are now 
nearly 4,000 young Seeds of Peace leaders who are working to make a 
positive difference in some of our world's most troubled regions.

As Chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I strongly believe 
in investing in our children. By doing so, we are investing in our 
future. Long-term peace between warring parties, including Arabs and 
Israelis, Indians and Pakistanis, and Afghans and Pakistanis, is 
dependent on the emergence of a new generation of leaders able and 
willing to engage in constructive dialogue.

By bringing young people from different backgrounds together in a 
recreational environment, Seeds of Peace lays a foundation for 
sustainable peace by facilitating interaction among young leaders 
before their fears, mistrust, and inherited prejudices have permanently 
shaped their vision of their ''enemy.'' After spending a summer at camp 
in Maine, participants and teachers continue to interact through 
regional and international programming, furthering the dialogue among 
and across nationalities. Seeds of Peace supports the development of 
future leaders.

In addition to these summer camps for children from conflict regions, 
Seeds of Peace now operates a domestic program called ''Maine Seeds,'' 
addressing ethnic and racial tensions between diverse communities in 
Maine. Also, in 2004, Seeds of Peace launched its ''Beyond Borders'' 
initiative, bringing teens from additional Middle East countries, such 
as Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait, to participate in a cultural 
exchange program between American and Arab youth.

Mr. Speaker, while the Arab/Israeli peace process has moved forward 
haltingly since 1993, Seeds of Peace has grown into a major 
organization that continues to foster interaction among thousands of 
young leaders and educators from around the world. It continues to 
build upon the basic premise the prejudices dispelled during youth will 
be prejudices dispelled for life.

I strongly urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
resolution, honoring Seeds of Peace for its fifteen years of promoting 
reconciliation, coexistence, and peace among youth of the Middle East 
and other conflict areas.