---
---

# None
## `790cdcc18b9699ea4de82042ae14d7f9`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Before Mr. Meek talks about readiness, let 
me just make one more point on top of that. It seemed that for years 
this Congress, the Republicans who set the policy for this war, didn't 
view the cost of the war as including taking care of the soldiers when 
they came back from Iraq and Afghanistan, that the cost of the war was 
just the money for the Humvees and the salaries and the missiles and 
the rifles. No, the cost of the war is all of what it takes to actually 
conduct that war on the battlefield, but it also is about putting forth 
every single dollar that is necessary to take care of those brave men 
and women when they come back to the United States.

Now, used to be in World War I, World War II, wars in the middle of 
the century that you would have about three injured soldiers for every 
soldier that was killed in action. Now, with improvements in technology 
in armor and medicine, we now have a 16-1 ratio. That is great news. 
That is great news, more people are coming back alive, but they are 
coming back with more difficult injuries, more complex medical issues. 
We haven't built into that war the cost of taking care of those 
veterans.

That is what this bill does. That is what this bill does. It is going 
to fund the withdrawal. It will fund the redeployment of our forces to 
fights that we still can win. It will also for the first time, for the 
first time, recognize that the cost of the war includes taking care of 
the veterans, not just average health care. In fact, we found out in 
many cases, in Walter Reed substandard health care, but with gold 
standard health care. Our veterans system should be the best health 
care available in this country.

With $1.7 billion in defense health care, $1.7 new dollars for 
veterans health care, we will finally live up to that commitment to our 
veterans and our soldiers when they get back here, like we should when 
they are over fighting for us.