---
---

# None
## `7910ace6b6ce3fd44658cce21c85edae`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I agree. And there are so many different aspects 
for us to talk about here, but I think our friend from Cleveland has 
hit the nail right on the head; this is about us competing as a 
country. This is about us only having 300 million people in the United 
States, many of them poor, many of them living in your community, my 
community, Congressman Meek, Congressman Murphy, our communities. And 
what we're saying is, if we want these kids to be able to compete 
against 1.3 billion people in China, 1.2 billion people in India, 
you're not even going to get on a field unless you're healthy. And 
we're saying that this is a modest investment. This is $35 billion over 
5 years. This is 41 days in Iraq. Now, when you think of it that way, 
and this has been the contrast of this whole debate; the President, 
over the past 6 years, has raised the debt limit for our country to go 
out and borrow money five times and increased the debt by over $3 
trillion; $9 billion a week in Iraq; no end in sight; borrowed more 
money than every President before him combined, from China, from Japan, 
from the OPEC countries. And now, all of a sudden, in the early days of 
October he says he is going to, and he does, veto a bill that provides 
children's health care for a few million poor kids. Now, I know when I 
go back to my district and I talk to constituents, they cannot believe 
it.

And we have our friends on the other side, Mr. Speaker, telling us 
that this is socialism. It wasn't socialism when a Republican Congress 
in the 1990s put this law into action, signed by President Clinton. It 
was a Republican Congress controlled by Newt Gingrich, a Republican 
Congress.