---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `791678206f3ab5df9ecd16aeb0193d2d`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise to speak for a son of Kentucky 
who journeyed to Iraq to save the lives of his fighting brethren, only 
to tragically lose his own. On May 7, 2005, PO3 Jeffrey L. Wiener of 
Louisville, KY, died in combat operations near a hospital in western 
Iraq. The hospital corpsman was 32 years old.

''My son was a hero and died doing what he loved, helping people no 
matter who they were,'' says Jeffrey's mother, Diana Wiener. An 
emergency medical technician in civilian life, Petty Officer Third 
Class Wiener dedicated himself to healing others.

For his bravery in uniform, Petty Officer Third Class Wiener received 
numerous medals and awards, including the Purple Heart and the Navy and 
Marine Corps Achievement Medal.

Jeffrey moved to Kentucky later in life, after growing up in 
Lynbrook, NY. He settled on his life's calling at an early age and 
began volunteering with the local fire department at 13.

Always helpful, Jeffrey eagerly assisted everyone at the firehouse 
with any task. What little free time he had left when not volunteering 
went to the school wrestling team. Jeffrey graduated from Lynbrook High 
School.

As an adult, Jeffrey worked in New York's Nassau County EMS and 
served as captain of a volunteer fire department. Jeffrey was committed 
to his profession as a paramedic and constantly pursued the latest 
training activities.

Jeffrey eventually settled in Louisville, moving to help his mother 
raise his younger brother David. He got a job with Jefferson County EMS 
and made an immediate impact on his new friends and coworkers.

Jeffrey ''was always real gung-ho, straightforward, no beating around 
the bush,'' says John Cooney, a Louisville paramedic who partnered with 
Jeffrey. ''That was his demeanor.''

Jeffrey proved his value in short order when he suggested to his 
supervisor that the Louisville paramedics use something called a Reeves 
stretcher, which is more maneuverable in tight quarters than the 
standard carrying board. Jeffrey was familiar with it from his time in 
New York.

Jeffrey's supervisor agreed and put him in charge of training 
everyone on the new device. Major Rockey Johnson, Jeffrey's supervisor, 
told family and friends gathered at a memorial service for Jeffrey that 
to this day the Louisville paramedics call the device ''the Wiener 
board.''

After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Jeffrey was moved 
to serve his country in uniform, and joined the U.S. Navy Reserve in 
2002. He then underwent special training to become a hospital corpsman.

The Navy hospital corpsman is a respected and revered position in our 
Armed Forces, and the most decorated rating in the U.S. Navy. Hospital 
corpsmen are often attached to Marine units and are trained to handle 
emergency medical procedures near the front lines of battle. For the 
man who had been eager to heal since age 13, it was the perfect 
mission.

Jeffrey was assigned to the II Marine Expeditionary Force and 
deployed to Iraq. ''He took care of his troops,'' says LT John Rudd, a 
Navy chaplain who served with Jeffrey.

Jeffrey made friends with his fellow sailors as easily as he had with 
coworkers in Louisville or New York. One fellow corpsman, who hailed 
from Lexington, KY, knew Jeffrey but couldn't remember his name. 
Jeffrey told him to call him ''Louie,'' because he was from Louisville.

Hospital corpsmen are often affectionately called ''Doc'' by the 
Marines they serve alongside, and Jeffrey soon earned the nickname 
''Doc Wiener.''

As much as Jeffrey relished the opportunity to serve, he dearly 
missed his family. Jeffrey married his high school sweetheart, Maria, 
in 1998, and together they raised two beautiful daughters, Mikayla and 
Theadora.

Jeffrey's older brother Joshua also served in Iraq and was there when 
Jeffrey arrived. Today, Joshua is in the Marine Forces Reserve and a 
fireman in New York City.

Jeffrey's younger brother David is also a marine and currently on his 
second deployment.

Jeffrey was looking forward to what life would hold for him and Maria 
when he left active service. He was considering continuing his EMS 
work, or going to the Department of Homeland Security. And many in his 
family believe his true calling was to become a doctor.

Jeffrey was buried in Calverton National Cemetery in Calverton, NY, 
on


May 16, 2005. Many friends from the Navy and the fire departments and 
EMS departments he had worked in over the years attended. Jeffrey was 
posthumously promoted to the rating of Hospital Corpsman Second Class.

I know I speak for all of my colleagues when I say our prayers go to 
the Wiener family for their terrible loss. We are thinking today of his 
wife Maria; his daughters Mikayla and Theadora; his mother Diana; his 
father Wayne; his brothers Joshua and David; his sisters Wendi, 
Jessica, and Delayne; the Barberio family; and many other beloved 
family members and dear friends.

''Jeffrey's desire to serve in the military was prompted by his 
desire to be a part of bringing peace,'' says his mother, Diana.

Mr. President, no one can doubt Jeffrey Wiener's compassion after he 
chose to dedicate himself from an early age to relieving the suffering 
of others.

And no one can doubt his bravery after he donned his uniform and 
volunteered to tend to our fighting forces in Iraq.

This Senate is humbled by PO3 Jeffrey L. Wiener's service and 
sacrifice. His family and friends are blessed for knowing him in life. 
And his State and Nation are stronger for his efforts in freedom's 
cause.












Louisville Sculptor Ed Hamilton


For more than 30 years, Americans have set aside one month every year 
to remember in a special way the contributions of African Americans to 
our national life. Black History Month has its roots in an old February 
tradition of celebrating the life and work of Frederick Douglass, the 
great writer and abolitionist. But its expansion over the years has 
given us an opportunity to recall the many other Black men and women 
whose personalities enliven our Nation's history but whose stories were 
often overlooked by those who recorded it.

Today, Black History Month is also an occasion to draw attention to 
outstanding African Americans of our own day--people like Ed Hamilton, 
one of America's great artists I and one of Kentucky's favorite sons.

As a boy growing up on Walnut Street in Louisville, Ed learned the 
value of hard work and the importance of family from his Dad, a 
businessman and a World War I vet. And from his Mom, he learned to 
think big. ''You can do anything,'' she always said. And so, roller-
skating around the tight-knit neighborhood around the Hamilton family 
home at Walnut and 7th, Ed would learn to dream.

It is one of the ironies of history that so many great artists and 
thinkers barely ever left their hometowns. The whole world opened up to 
Shakespeare in a tiny town in England. Rembrandt saw all of history on 
the faces of merchants in Amsterdam. The Divine Comedy was written in 
exile. And for Ed Hamilton, Louisville has always been enough.

Ed and his family have lived in the same house on 43rd Street for 
decades. And all of his sculptures--from the Amistad memorial in New 
Haven to the African American Civil War Memorial monument here in 
Washington--were brought to life in the same Shelby Street studio. 
''Louisville has been my lifeblood,'' he says.

Ed's memories of post-war Louisville are vivid--right down to the 
sharp smell of the stockyards and the sweet smell of hops that floated 
from the breweries. He remembers spending too much time at the Lyric 
Theater--and being fascinated as a young boy by a bronze statue of 
Abraham Lincoln at the public library on 4th and York. It was the seed 
of his life's calling. Next year, more than half a century after Ed 
gazed at that bronze statue of Lincoln outside the public library, 
Kentucky will celebrate the bicentennial of Lincoln's birth with a new 
statue of Lincoln, this one by Ed, at Waterfront Park in Louisville.


Ed's life didn't always follow a straight path. As a kid, his mom 
wanted him to be a doctor. But a teacher at Parkland Middle School saw 
his talent as an artist and decided she wasn't going to let him waste 
it. So she called his Mom at home. ''I think Ed's got something,'' she 
said, ''and I want to help him develop it.''

At Shawnee High School, other teachers did the same. Ed developed a 
love for sculpture--and for a pretty girl named Bernadette--during his 
time at the Art Center School. They got married. And for the last 40 
years, Bernadette has been his confidante and special muse.

Early on in their marriage, Ed taught ceramics and sculpture at 
Iroquois High School. He enjoyed the work. It was a stable job. But 
everything changed after a chance encounter in 1973. That's when Ed met 
Barney Bright, the only man in Louisville who actually earned a living 
as a sculptor. ''Barney invited me into his studio,'' Ed later 
recalled, ''and my entire life changed.''

Channeling the entrepreneurial spirit of his parents, Ed decided to 
set out on his own. And after a few years of working on abstract pieces 
and some impressive but minor liturgical art, the big breakthrough 
came. It was a commission for a bust of Booker T. Washington at Hampton 
University in Virginia. Ed always told Bernadette they didn't need to 
move to a big city for his work. If he was good enough, he said, they 
would come to him. Now they were.

When the Hampton commission came, in the early 1980s, Ed had never 
been on a plane before. So when it came time to visit the school, he 
took a Greyhound bus. It stopped in every town and hamlet for 600 
miles. When they told him he had the job, he called Bernadette to tell 
her the good news and to tell her he was coming home in a plane.

Other important commissions followed: a statue of Joe Louis in 
Detroit; the Amistad Memorial in New Haven; York, the slave who 
accompanied Lewis and Clark on their western expedition, in Louisville; 
and then, the Spirit of Freedom monument in Washington, an epic work 
that teaches thousands of Americans each year about the vital role the 
slaves played in the Union victory in the Civil War.

The movie ''Glory'' focused on a single regiment of Black soldiers. 
The Spirit of Freedom honors all 200,000 of them, including nearly 
24,000 from Kentucky alone. This fighting force of former slaves made 
up about 10 percent of the Union Army. Twenty percent of these brave 
soldiers and sailors died in battle.

The Spirit of Freedom was 6 years in the making. Ed says he used to 
dream about it in his sleep. The final product features 3 soldiers and 
a sailor on one side. On the other side are the grandparents and 
parents of 3 children, one of whom is on his way to battle. Another 
child is an infant.

The message of the statue is clear: When the war began, everyone in 
the family it depicts was a slave. When the war ended, they were free. 
Some had lived their entire lives in bondage, but their children would 
not. Black men had helped secure a life of freedom for themselves, 
their families, and future generations and helped unite a country.

The Spirit of Freedom is a tribute to the soldiers who fought. It's 
also a special gift to their descendents. One woman, who came from 
Seattle to see it, sent a letter to the museum's director when she got 
back home. Here's what she wrote: ''I don't know what I expected when I 
came to see the memorial, but when I came up out of the escalator and 
this statue rose in front of me my eyes were filled with tears.''

Ed has two big binders of letters just like these at home. This one, 
from a woman in Louisville, is typical: ''Dear Ed: How wonderful for 
you to make history come alive for generations to come. Now you are 
making history yourself as a sculptor and an African American. It is 
all wonderfully earned and deserved.''

Ed's gotten a lot of awards. In 1996, he was given the Governor's 
Artists Award in the Arts. In 2000, he was made an honorary doctor of 
Humane Letters at Spalding University. In 2001, he was inducted into 
the Gallery of Great Black Kentuckians. In 2004, he was made an 
honorary doctor of arts at Western Kentucky University.

But he wears his fame lightly. Locals are surprised to see him 
walking down the aisles at Kroger. And he always answers his own phone. 
''I don't believe my own press,'' he says. ''This is all fleeting.''

Speaking once about the Spirit of Freedom statue, Ed called it an 
''honor'' for him to pay tribute to the thousands of Black men who gave 
their lives in the service of freedom but who were not allowed to march 
in the victory parades after the war was over.



In this Black History Month, it is an honor for me to pay tribute to 
Ed Hamilton on behalf of all Kentuckians and on behalf of the many 
thousands of people across the country who have been touched by his 
special gift.

I yield the floor.