# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `792b7302ce87563d034c436bcf75253d`
`Mr. SAXTON — 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I happen to believe that this motion to instruct is extremely 
important. I think it is extremely important for two reasons. First, as 
Mr. Hunter pointed out, this provision provides instruction to 
authorize the full $192 billion supplemental for the war spending bill 
without strings or date certain to withdraw American forces from Iraq. 
I think that is important. And I will say why a little bit later here. 
But I also I think it


is important to recognize, as this provision also does, that there are 
consequences for not carrying out our actions in Iraq and in other 
places in the world, for that matter, in a responsible fashion.

This measure instructs the House conferees to accept a provision that 
has already been passed by the Senate. It is known as provision 1536 
which states that it is the sense of Congress that a failed state in 
Iraq would become a safe haven for Islamic radicals, including al Qaeda 
and Hezbollah, and others, who are determined to attack the United 
States here at home and our allies.

Let me speak to the first point to say why I think it is important 
that we go forward to authorize the full $192 billion supplemental war 
spending bill. All of us should be students of history, particularly 
recent history. I know that the chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee is a great historian himself. But recent events I think are 
extremely important. Perhaps some of our colleagues here have not 
watched this as closely as perhaps some of us on the Armed Services 
Committee, but as we saw progress begin to take place in Iraq, many of 
us asked why. And I think it was universally accepted that one of the 
reasons was that the Sunni tribal leaders, for a couple of reasons, I 
believe, began to cooperate with our forces and our personnel who are 
there. One reason was in their own self-interest. They recognized that 
the time of wishing each other, that is Sunnis and Shias ill, was 
drawing to a close because the Iraqi people themselves were tired of 
the violence. So just like any of our neighbors here would be tired of 
violence under those circumstances, the Iraqis grew tired of it as 
well.

But the second reason I believe we began to make the progress that we 
see today is very simply that the Iraqi people became convinced, in 
spite of many days of rhetoric on this floor, became convinced that we 
weren't going to leave them, that we were going to stay and finish the 
job. And so the commitment that would be expressed by the passage of 
this language I think is extremely important.

But I also think it is important to recognize that the provision 
notes that a failed state in Iraq could lead to a broader regional 
conflict. There was a lot of talk here this morning on this floor and 
yesterday in the news media about the state of Iran, and why was it 
that in 2003 we now believe that they discontinued their effort to 
create nuclear weapons. Could it have been something that happened in 
their neighborhood? Could it have been the determination that our 
soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines showed next door in Iraq? And 
could it be that the Iranian leadership recognized that there were 
actions that they needed to take in their best interest which perhaps 
included the discontinuation of their effort to create nuclear weapons?

Senate provision 1536 concludes by stating that the Congress should 
commit itself to a strategy that will not leave a failed state in Iraq, 
that will continue the progress that we have seen in recent months and 
should not pass legislation that will undermine our military's ability 
to prevent a failed state in Iraq.