# IMPROVING SCRA AND USERRA PROTECTIONS ACT OF 2008
## `792ccaec85db5b2662315a1180baec40`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of the 21st Century Servicemembers Protection Act and to 
address the problem that my buddy and fellow paratrooper in the 101st 
Airborne Division brought to my attention, one that affects our 
deployed troops overseas when they return home.

Mr. Speaker, some cell phone companies and Internet service providers 
are not allowing deployed troops to suspend or terminate their 
contracts. Some troops, many troops, have had their credit reports 
damaged. We owe our brave troops better than this, and we need to do 
better for folks like Sergeant Patrick Campbell, who spent, on his 
first day back from deployment, 8 hours in a mall cell phone store the 
day he got back from Iraq trying to sort out his cell phone contract so 
he could call his loved ones and straighten out a wrongful credit 
report.

Mr. Speaker, our servicemen and -women must focus on completing their 
mission and returning home safely. They should not have to worry about 
creditors harassing their family or if a cell phone company is ruining 
their credit.

This bill also allows our heroes to keep their cell phone numbers so 
they can better reconnect with their loved ones once they return home. 
This is crucial when you look at one in five Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans have symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder or TBI, 
traumatic brain injury, the two signature injuries of the Iraq and 
Afghanistan war.

Mr. Speaker, this is not a Democrat or a Republican issue. This is 
about doing what is right for our troops.

With that, I would like to thank Chairman Filner. I would like to 
thank Mr. Buyer. I would also like to thank Chairwoman Herseth Sandlin 
and Mr. Boozman for their leadership and bipartisan efforts on behalf 
of our veterans, and for including my bill in their legislation.

I am a proud Member of the 110th Congress, a Congress that worked in 
a bipartisan fashion for our veterans, the one that passed the largest 
increase in veterans benefits in the VA history; the one that passed 
the new GI bill for our troops, so they get 4 years of college 
education or technical school, and a Congress that now passes this 
great bill in the Halls of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6225.

I would like to thank Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer as 
well as Chairwoman Herseth Sandlin and Ranking Member Boozman for their 
leadership on behalf of veterans and for including my bill, the 21st 
Century Servicemembers Protection Act, in this great legislation.

Mr. Speaker, my bill addresses a problem that a JAG attorney in the 
101st Airborne brought to my attention soon after my election to 
Congress.

He alerted me to the disturbing fact that some of our troops have had 
their credit reports damaged during their deployments overseas.

They are having trouble suspending or breaking their contracts with 
cell phone companies or internet service providers--even if they 
present deployment orders.

In fact, the JAG attorney who called me was able to suspend one of 
his own contracts during his deployment, but to do so he was forced to 
pay a costly fee.

Looking into this further, I also discovered that some financial 
institutions are slow or unwilling to reduce servicemembers' interest 
rates during deployments . . . even though these creditors are already 
required to do so by law.

Mr. Speaker, we owe our brave troops, and their brave families better 
than this. While facing the strain of long deployments, they should not 
have to face repeated harassment by collection agencies.

As we continue to send a new generation into harm's way, it is our 
duty to protect these brave troops and do right by their families.

Our servicemen and women should be allowed to focus on completing 
their mission and returning home safely--they should not have to worry 
about creditors harassing their family, or if their cell phone company 
is ruining their credit.

Mr. Speaker, my portion of this bill expands the existing 
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to cover 21st century service contracts 
such as cellular phones, utilities, cable television, and internet 
access.

Quite simply, my measure will allow troops with deployment orders to 
terminate or suspend their service contracts without fee or penalty and 
it will force creditors who knowingly or negligently fail to reduce 
interest rates to face penalties.

While I believe this to be a serious problem faced by our troops, 
most service providers take steps to allow servicemembers facing 
deployment or change of station to terminate or suspend service without 
penalty, and I appreciate the input I have received from a variety of 
industries on this bill.

Most companies have programs in place, and train their customer 
service representatives to deal appropriately with these situations. 
However, I recognize that mistakes do happen, especially in large 
companies with millions of customers and many thousands of employees.

My intention is not to use the most severe penalties available under 
this bill to punish occasional innocent mistakes. Instead, the 
penalties that are included in this bill should be applied 
proportionally with consideration given to the frequency, severity, and 
intent of the violation or violations.

In instances where a servicemember is only minimally inconvenienced, 
and the serviceprovider promptly rectifies the situation, no criminal 
penalty may be necessary at all. However, when the violations are 
intentional and repeated, the full penalty available should be applied.

Mr. Speaker, as a veteran of the United States Army and the war in 
Iraq, I know how important it is that our troops be able to focus on 
accomplishing their mission without worrying about credit trouble back 
at home.

This is not a Democratic or Republican issue. This is about doing 
what's right for our troops. With that, I would again like to thank 
Chairman Filner and Mr. Buyer for their leadership.