---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `79432ec749202f2b6100c01807d50d48`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes.

I applaud my colleagues for speaking with such passion. I wish they 
had the same passion for addressing the tools that the leadership in 
the intelligence community have said that they have needed, that our 
intelligence professionals who are in the field have said that they 
have needed to keep America safe. And this leadership has been 
unwilling to bring it up for almost 30 days.

The tool that they want, the tool that they need, and the tool that 
has proven to be so effective is the Terrorist Surveillance Program, 
which is an updated version of FISA legislation. It takes the FISA 
legislation, it moves it forward, and it updates it. But for almost 30 
days, that tool has been eroding, putting our troops at risk, putting 
our homeland at greater risk, putting other U.S. personnel who are 
oversees at greater risk, and putting our allies who depend so often on 
the work of our intelligence community, putting them at greater risk. 
As al Qaeda in Iraq has said they want to attack Jerusalem, as 
Hezbollah has said that they intend to retaliate for the death of 
Mughniyah 3 or 4 weeks ago, as the radicals seek to destabilize the 
regimes in the Middle East of modern Islamic countries, people that are 
working with us in the war and the threat against radical jihadists, 
our answer to them is we're going to curtail our intelligence 
activities, and as a result, you will be at greater risk because we are 
going to be of less assistance. We are not going to be able to give you 
the intelligence that you've been receiving for the last 5 years 
because our techniques are limited.

Mr. Speaker, with that I reserve the balance of my time.