---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3867, SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING  PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS ACT
## `7947503e07a6963bc999c712943d9551`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 30 October 2007`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Small 
Business Contracting Program Improvements Act.

Small business, as we all know, is the lifeblood of our communities. 
Small businesses are responsible for creativity, innovation, and 
community investment. I honestly believe that a community that has 
strong small businesses is a strong and vibrant community.

This legislation is going to give small businesses in my home state, 
southern Arizona, a chance to be competitive with federal contracts, 
whether it's in Oro Valley down to Green Valley or Tucson all the way 
to Bisbee and to Douglas.

For example, OfficeSmart in Sierra Vista, was founded in 1993 by 
Glenn McDaniel, a veteran, along with his wife, Diane. OfficeSmart has 
12 employees and nearly 1,000 commercial customers in southern Arizona. 
They compete for federal contracts and to provide office supplies to 
Ft. Huachuca.

This bill is going to keep federal contract benefits targeted at 
local small businesses like OfficeSmart in local communities. It also 
honors our commitment to disabled veterans.

We know with the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan there will be more and 
more veterans. This legislation also kick-starts the SBA's Women's 
Procurement Program.

As a former president, CEO, and small business owner myself, I know 
the importance of small businesses and how difficult it is to compete. 
I strongly support passage of this bill and I urge Members on both 
sides of the aisle to support it.

Thank you, Madam Chairwoman for your hard work on this committee.