---
---

# None
## `795b388ed2a94f6795465fb17baf1bf0`
`Mr. SHAYS — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, as I walked into this Chamber, Congressman McGovern said 
we need to work together to bring our troops home. He is right. But the 
resolution we will be debating today does not allow us to consider 
bipartisan proposals. There were a number of amendments presented to 
the Rules Committee, and they rejected all of them.

The gentlewoman from New York, Ms. Slaughter, can say, when 
Republicans were in control, they didn't do that, they didn't allow 
bipartisan amendments. That is about the most insignificant and 
meaningless statement she could make, because Democrats are now in 
charge, and they are in charge in part because of the war in Iraq and 
because they promised to be different and have open debate and allow us 
all to say what we needed to say and from that find consensus.

There are two things I agree on: we need to bring our troops home, 
and we need a deadline to do that. But this deadline begins in 120 days 
and concludes by April of next year, guaranteeing absolute failure, 
laying waste to all the investment we have talked about.

We need to bring our troops home, but not by the deadline that has 
been offered. It is the only deadline. So when I vote against what I 
think is a foolish deadline, the media is going to say exactly what my 
Democratic colleagues want them to say, that we voted against a 
deadline and that we are not sincere about bringing our troops home.

Give me a deadline I can support, and I will vote for it. Give me an 
opportunity to at least debate a deadline that I could support.

We are going to bring our troops home because we can't maintain this 
level of engagement in Iraq without extending troops from 15 months to 
18 months. We are not going to allow that to happen. Our troops will be 
coming home, but not by April. They will be coming home in a more 
thoughtful way.

I urge defeat of this resolution. In particular, it did not allow for 
the Wolf amendment, which was the Iraq Study Group proposal. This is 
what we need to be voting on. We all say that we agree with it and 
support it. Well, why not bring it to the floor? What are we afraid of?