---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `7969f2c51e472a138e4c9c44ae36fd3d`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the title of this bill, ''The U.S. Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act,'' doesn't say 
much for the contents of this legislation because it has gone way 
beyond that with a lot of material that has nothing to do with the 
title. The Finance Committee matters definitely don't fit into this 
bill.

As the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee, 
Senator Byrd has said on so many occasions the Founding Fathers vested 
the great power of the purse in the Congress. Likewise, the other great 
power, the power to raise taxes, is vested in Congress. The power of 
the purse, appropriations, is our power. We are directly accountable to 
our constituents for our spending actions. In that vein, I deeply 
respect the deep traditions of the Appropriations Committee.

As former chairman and now ranking member of the Finance Committee, I 
also deeply respect the division of power. The power to tax is our 
power as a committee, and we are directly accountable to our 
constituents for our taxing actions. We should mix the jurisdiction of 
the two great money committees--Finance and Appropriations--rarely, if 
at all. It should only occur if at all when the senior members of the 
tax writing and appropriations committees agree. Mixing tax writing and 
appropriations jurisdiction should not occur. As a leadership power 
play, those kinds of actions demean the committees.

Fortunately, the leadership respected this division of jurisdiction 
between the tax writers and appropriators over the last 6 years. 
Unfortunately, early on in the tenure of this new Democratic majority 
and their leadership, we have seen a dramatically different course of 
action for purely partisan reasons.

The Democratic leadership inserted into this sensitive supplemental 
appropriations bill two major matters that involve Finance Committee 
jurisdiction. So the first lesson we have learned is that the line 
between the tax writing committee jurisdiction and appropriations 
jurisdiction will not be observed. That will only undermine each 
committee and break down the committee process. The second lesson is 
the ''I told you so.'' Shortly after the Senate acted on the minimum 
wage and small business tax relief bill, I said I had learned something 
from the Democratic leadership, as they were in the minority over the 
last 6 years. It was a lesson the Democrats taught us while they were 
in the minority. That lesson is, get a preconference agreement. Put 
another way, if you are in the Senate minority, as we are now, don't 
agree to a conference unless you secure an agreement for fair treatment 
in advance. That is something that worked well for the Democrats while 
they were in the minority, something we ought to have learned, and we 
have learned.

Now let me say I appreciate all the consultation and courtesy that 
Chairman Baucus has given me. He worked with me and I worked with him 
to get the minimum wage, small business tax relief bill through the 
committee. But the composition of the final package that is before us 
is heavily weighted toward an extension and modification of the work 
opportunity tax credit--and I support that credit--and the benefits of 
that policy are delayed. Small businesses need tax relief to be in sync 
with the time of the minimum wage kicking in. Both of these outcomes do 
not reflect a proportionate agreement between the House and Senate 
bills. The arbitrary ceiling on the amount of tax relief was not a fair 
balance. This agreement confirms that a preconference process--learning 
that from the Democratic minority of the last 4 years--is necessary to 
ensure that a conference agreement will reflect the priorities of both 
bodies. I will reiterate my point to the Republican leadership again on 
that. This process proves that we need a preconference agreement before 
agreeing to go to conference in the first place.

Now I will return to the substance of the deal, Mr. President. I am 
hearing from a lot of small business folks who are going to be paying 
the minimum wage. They want to retain their current workforces, hey 
have to look to the bottome line. They are very disappointed that the 
arbitrary $5 billion limit meant that important tax relief measures 
were tossed out. I am referring to a simplification of the cash method 
of accounting. That proposal would cut down on a lot of paperwork small 
businesses currently have to do. I'm also referring to faster 
depreciation rules for new restaurant buildings, and I am referring to 
faster depreciation rules for retailers and owner-financed building 
improvements. All of these proposals would help with the coming cash 
crunch that these small businesses will be facing.

I am not hearing from a lot of the big business folks who were 
targeted by the loophole closers and antitax shelter measures. Because 
of House opposition and fealty to the $5 billion number, those 
reasonable revenue raisers were tossed out the window.

This was a missed opportunity. It was a missed opportunity for a 
Congress that started with a supposed reform mission to send a message 
to K Street in DC and Wall Street in New York City. That message 
would've been simple. Don't engage in tax shelters like the so-called 
''SILO'' transactions. Don't move your company headquarters offshore to 
minimize your American tax responsibilities like the so-called 
''inversion'' transactions. For high-paid CEOS, don't rely too much on 
non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements. Nope, you can kiss 
that opportunity goodbye.

When it came to the small business tax relief package, K Street and 
Wall Street big business won and Main Street small business lost. Not a 
good outcome. Hopefully, once this bill is vetoed and we return to the 
minimum wage/small business tax relief package, Main Street small 
business will come out on top.

Now I am going to turn to the other Finance Committee material in 
this time-sensitive appropriations bill. I am referring to Medicaid 
proposals in the conference agreement. There is a provision in the 
conference agreement that would prevent CMS from implementing the cost-
limitation rule.

Certainly, a one-year moratorium is an improvement over the two-year 
moratorium that was in the bill as passed by the Senate, but the 
language in the bill still encourages states to push the envelope on 
payment schemes.

If CMS gets a waiver or state plan amendment that has authority to do 
with the rule, I don't think CMS has the authority to turn it down. 
Neither does CMS.

And after trying to work it out with the sponsors of the provision 
for the last couple of weeks, I don't think they want CMS to have any 
authority either.

Why? This is a provision written for the benefit of a special 
interests so they can avoid real scrutiny of their financing 
arrangements.

This provision will encourage states to offer payment schemes that 
CMS has previously disallowed as being inappropriate.

It will encourage litigation if CMS tries to assert that they do 
still maintain jurisdiction.



This is just bad public policy.

The inspector general has investigated and reported to congress on 
why there are problems in the areas the rule addresses.

We have not had the first hearing on why the rule doesn't work and 
must be stopped.

This is a tremendous mistake and should not be in the bill.

The way that this provision is paid for is equally noxious.

The extension of the Wisconsin pharmacy plus waiver is an unnecessary 
earmark. Every State but Wisconsin has changed their pharmacy 
assistance program as the MMA required.

But why hasn't Wisconsin? It's very simple. They want the Federal 
dollars that Medicaid provides and the rebates they get from drug 
companies.

That it is an earmark is bad. But the way the language is written is 
really offensive. The language is written in a way that games 
Medicaid's budget neutrality test. It's written to guarantee that it 
appears to save money.

The reality is that Wisconsin will be providing many poor seniors 
with less of a benefit than they could get through part d. Wisconsin 
charges greater cost-sharing than Medicare for low income seniors.

It truly is another missed opportunity. They could have paid for this 
with a provision we would have gladly supported.

But again, the special interest won out. We could have struck a 
provision that the House Rules Committee stuck in the tax bill in the 
middle of the night last December that creates an unfair advantage for 
certain private fee-for-service Medicare Advantage plans.

Senator Baucus and I thought this was terrible policy, we said so on 
the floor, and have wanted to change it. Plans based in Illinois and 
Nevada are among the plans it advantages most. So for some reason, 
striking the provision didn't make it into the bill. It's a corporate 
giveaway that should be eliminated.

Legislating to prevent CMS from cleaning up intergovernmental 
transfers scams on this appropriation bill sets a bad precedent. That 
is clear. It's legislation on Medicaid and, that is a basic part of the 
jurisdiction of the Finance Committee.

If the Senate proceeds in this manner, then nothing then would 
prevent the Senate legislating changes on other Medicaid and Medicare 
issues on appropriation bills without the benefit of hearings or 
committee action on those subjects.

Invading the Medicaid and Medicare jurisdiction of the Finance 
Committee is a mistake.

It is almost impossible to cope with Medicaid and Medicare 
legislation on appropriation bills. These are complex issues that are 
best dealt with by the committee of jurisdiction.

This bill is going to be vetoed. The Appropriations Committee will 
return to its work to fund the troops in the field. We ought to focus 
on that. On minimum wage/small business tax relief, we need to go to 
regular order. Let's arrive at a pre-conference agreement on the House 
and Senate bills and go to conference and hash it out with a real 
conference. Unlike this situation, the chairmen and ranking members of 
both tax writing committees should be conferees. In that setting, we 
can arrive at a bipartisan agreement that passes the House, Senate, and 
be signed by the President. On the Medicaid provision, it ought to be 
crafted by the committees of jurisdiction and incorporated in a vehicle 
controlled by those committees.

After the veto, let's get this right. I would ask the leadership to 
get out of the way of the tax writing committees and let us do our work 
on our schedule in line with our committees' objectives.

I yield the floor.