# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `796cac12a9bc00ecdcd9f6660c3aace0`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER â€” 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, while I support the efforts of 
Democratic leadership to fund vital programs like the Veterans 
Administration and health care for our serving military, I cannot 
support the FY08 Defense Appropriations bill. This final draft provides 
too much money for the wrong priorities and enables the administration 
to continue its tragically misguided Iraq policy.

I made a pledge to vote against any further funding for the Iraq war 
unless it is used for immediate troop redeployment. I will honor this 
pledge, and I will continue to fight against funding for major weapons 
systems that have little to do with current security threats.

Programs like the Future Combat System's fighting vehicles and the 
National Missile Defense system would be justifiable if the major 
threat to our security was a modern version of the Soviet Union. It is 
not. I applaud the Democratic cuts to the funding levels requested by 
the President, though we must do better.

Continuing to pour billions of dollars into these programs is a waste 
of money and a threat to our readiness. We must invest in personnel and 
systems that confront the real and looming threats of terrorists and 
rogue states.

This bill contains glimmers of hope that we are moving in the right 
direction on defense spending. But I will not vote for a bill that 
funds a Cold War-era military and approves any additional funding for 
the war in Iraq.