# None
## `79714c4b66e8c88bd90e88cdcbd5e841`
`Mr. DODD â€” 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, let me, first of all, begin by thanking the 
majority leader, Senator Reid, and the Republican leader, Senator 
McConnell. We would not be where we are at this moment without their 
leadership. So any discussion of where we are on this matter begins 
with them and their staffs for helping us organize the effort over the 
last number of hours, beginning earlier this week, as we returned from 
the 2-week Easter break, to try to fashion together a proposal, at 
least on matters with which there was common agreement.

As the leader has pointed out, there are many matters here with which 
there is significant disagreement. They are not part of the pending 
substitute. Senator Shelby and I and our respective staffs, along with 
many others--certainly the Finance Committee, because there are 
portions of this that are exclusively the jurisdiction of the Finance 
Committee--have worked over the last 2 days to find those issues upon 
which there was common agreement, or at least levels of spending on 
which there was common agreement, to move forward on as the 
centerpiece, with the full understanding our colleagues will offer 
various other ideas either to increase amounts of money or to add 
additional provisions to this bill.

What is important here is we are finally working on this issue. As I 
pointed out earlier this week, we have close to 8,000 foreclosures a 
day occurring in this country, not to mention, of course, the residual 
effects spreading across the economy of our Nation--the contagion 
effect affecting students loans, car loans, people who are current in 
their mortgage but are watching the value of their house decline 
because their neighbor's house is in foreclosure, watching home sales 
drop. This is in the midst of an economy that is stumbling along, to 
put it mildly, with a fiscal situation in dire straits. The dollar has 
been weakened. Inflation is rising. Unemployment rates are increasing. 
Consumer confidence is at a low point, the lowest it has been in years.


So it has been critical, in my view, aside from the specifics which 
you will hear about over the coming days, that we do everything 
possible to remind the American people that in this body Democrats and 
Republicans can come together to try to take intelligent steps to move 
against the flow of the economy heading in the wrong direction.

This proposal we bring to you as a substitute this morning on behalf 
of myself and Senator Shelby, along with the leadership, is that first 
major step. Is it the end game? Absolutely not. Are there ideas I would 
love to have had included in this bill? Absolutely. Are there matters 
here the Senator from Alabama would like to have included or excluded? 
Absolutely. But we realized we were not going to be able to do that in 
this discussion over the last 2


days, that we needed at least to come up with a core group of issues 
around which there was general agreement, and then from that move 
forward. That is the good news.

A month ago, we had a cloture motion on going to a housing debate. It 
was defeated. You could not even get to a debate on this housing 
crisis. That now is behind us. There are matters that occurred over the 
last several weeks that I think probably had a lot of influence on what 
has caused us to come here this morning. The Bear Stearns, JPMorgan 
situation, which we will be hearing about later this morning in the 
Banking Committee, was certainly one. I suspect the other major event 
was the fact that we went home for a couple weeks.

There is nothing like going home and to get a message. Members went 
back home--Democrats and Republicans--and they heard from their 
constituents. They watched what happened on Wall Street in New York 
when all of a sudden there was an arrangement, which I think was the 
right one, probably, with some minor differences, that saved a major 
collapse in our financial institutions.

But they asked the very legitimate question: If it was good enough 
for people to get together to solve a problem on Wall Street, what 
about the problem on Main Street? What are you doing here to see to it 
that I can stay in my home, that our neighborhood is not going to 
collapse--that our taxes and properties and neighborhoods are not going 
to further deteriorate? So I suspect more than anything else going home 
made a big difference, and we are here this morning to then talk about 
what we can do.

Two days ago, the majority leader and the Republican leader asked 
Senator Shelby and myself to put together a consensus package to move 
this process forward, and I am pleased to say we have complied with the 
wishes of the two leaders in crafting a compromise proposal that we 
believe merits the full support of this body.

Again, I thank the majority leader and the Republican leader for 
their leadership and support in this effort.

We worked very intensely through Tuesday night until yesterday 
evening to put together this package that is before us. This effort 
built on the considerable time that we have spent in the Banking 
Committee over the past 15 months, I might add, in hearings, meetings, 
and briefings, on the causes of and remedies to the current economic 
crisis. Senator Shelby and I said yesterday that at times of crisis 
such as this, inaction is not an option. With more than 7,000 Americans 
going into foreclosure every single day, true leaders cannot simply 
turn passively away. Our agreement takes important action to address 
symptoms of this crisis in a constructive and sensible manner.


I would be remiss if I did not also mention Senator Baucus and 
Senator Grassley, who did very good and important work in the Finance 
Committee over this same period of time, the fruits of which are also 
reflected in the package that is now before us in the substitute. This 
package includes a number of important provisions:

Foreclosure mitigation fund--$4 billion for towns and cities to 
acquire foreclosed and abandoned properties, renovate them, and put 
them in the hands of qualified home buyers or turn them into rental 
housing as the local markets dictate. That is important because when 
you have a foreclosed property in the neighborhood, every other 
property in that neighborhood declines in value immediately. So trying 
to do something about foreclosed properties to put them back on the 
market and get them back with people living in them, either by purchase 
or rental, which will also benefit the neighbors in that community, not 
to mention property taxes, services, and the like--it is a major 
provision, one which I am glad is included.

Foreclosure prevention counseling--$100 million of additional funding 
in fiscal year 2008 to bring borrowers and lenders to the table to work 
out terms that will prevent foreclosures. This brings the budget for 
foreclosure prevention counseling to $280 million for this fiscal year. 
That is up from $42 million last year. Now, would we have liked to have 
done more? Absolutely, we would have liked to have done more. Senator 
Schumer and Senator Murray wanted $200 million. My colleague from 
Alabama will tell you there was not a lot of appetite for this proposal 
here, to put it mildly, so we compromised between $200 million and 
virtually zero and got it to $100 million. I am told by the nonprofits 
that there are adequate funds here now in the calendar year to assist 
in the counseling effort, which can make a huge difference.

FHA modernization. The bill also includes the FHA modernization 
legislation which passed this body 93 to 1 last fall, with some 
improvements. For example, we increased the FHA loan limits from the 
current $362,000 to as high as $550,000. This will make FHA more 
available and usable to people who live in higher cost States. It would 
also strengthen the solvency of the FHA fund. FHA can help an awful lot 
of people seeking safe, solid, affordable, fixed-rate mortgages. We 
think it is a very important component to our comprehensive strategy.

Better disclosure. Senator Jack Reed has included a provision in the 
legislation that improves disclosure. It updates penalties for lenders 
who fail to make disclosures. These kinds of disclosures might have 
helped prevent some abusive lending if they had been in place in years 
past. I would point out that I think another Senator also had 
disclosure provisions in this bill, and this is a compromise between 
Senator Reid and a Republican Senator who was also interested in 
disclosure language.

Tax provisions. Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley worked out a 
package of tax provisions as well. I will mention them briefly and let 
them describe the provisions more fully themselves. They include a home 
buyer tax credit to incentivize the purchase of foreclosed properties, 
the Isakson-Stabenow-Cardin proposal. No. 2 is a property tax deduction 
to help people offset rising mortgage payments. We will provide a 
modest tax cut to middle-income families of $100 to $250 who don't 
already itemize their deductions. Senator Bayh and Senator Baucus 
offered that idea. Mortgage revenue bonds to help communities raise 
resources to invest in affordable mortgages and rental housing--it goes 
right to the heart of the problem we are talking about. Net operating 
loss carryback will help businesses ride out the current downturn.

This package is a good start. I wish to thank as well Senator Kerry, 
Senator Akaka, and Senator Norm Coleman for talking about veterans and 
making sure those serving our country in Afghanistan, Iraq, and 
elsewhere are not going to have their properties foreclosed in the 
midst of all of this.

There are other provisions as well that I am not going into here, but 
needless to say, again, these are items upon which we could agree, both 
Democrats and Republicans, to serve as the core of the coming debate. 
Our action today does not preclude, as I have said, further legislative 
action by the Senate. In fact, I am committed to going forward and 
doing more. In fact, I will hold a hearing next week on the home 
preservation idea that a number of Democrats and Republicans are 
attracted to. Senator Shelby, to his credit--I appreciate his 
willingness to be a part of that debate and discussion during the 
coming days. There was a reluctance, and I would have loved to have 
included that in this package. There is resistance to that idea at this 
juncture, but I am still determined to do everything I can in the 
coming days to have that included as well, to see to it that we really 
get a floor and a bottom on this issue as quickly as we can.

My colleague from Alabama is here. We are both going to be going over 
to chair a hearing, so I want to give him some time to discuss this.

Let me thank Senator Reid and Senator Durbin for their efforts. They 
will be offering ideas as well to improve and strengthen this 
legislation. Some of these ideas we will welcome, others we will 
oppose.

Senator Shelby and I will consult with each other in that process to 
determine how to go forward, but we want to stick with this core idea 
if we can. Other ideas that come to the table we will certainly 
consider and may, in fact, be added to the package, but I think we want 
to try to keep this core package whole and together if we can, rather 
than having it unravel.

So with that, I thank the majority leader, the Republican leader, and 
I


thank my colleague from Alabama. He and I work closely together. Last 
year, we did 35 hearings and 17 bills in the Banking Committee, half of 
which became the law of the land, and some others are still pending 
here. Our committee is a good committee with good working members who 
care about these issues, and we are determined to make a difference.

With that, I yield the floor.