# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `798455ca50990f6eca091232a59c16d1`
`Ms. PELOSI — 24 May 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding, the distinguished 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee.

Thank you, Mr. Obey, for your brilliance in bringing the legislation 
to the floor that we have today so we can express ourselves on the 
direction of this war, and at the same time, we have the opportunity to 
meet the emergency needs of the people of America, the Hurricane 
Katrina survivors, our farmers suffering from natural disasters, 
children without health insurance, our veterans. Thank you for the 
strong commitment you and Mr. Murtha and others have made to military 
health, to veterans health and to BRAC. After 10 years of indifference, 
we are raising the minimum wage for millions of our hardest-working 
Americans. And with the passage of the provisions in the first piece of 
this bill, the first amendment, we strengthen our country and address 
the health and well-being of millions of Americans who have been 
ignored again for too long. The new direction of Congress is keeping 
its promise to them.

Mr. Speaker, we have two amendments before us, and I just spoke about 
one of them. The other resolution, the other amendment about the war, 
the President's request plus the Warner resolution, is really an 
inkblot. We are all familiar with the Rorschach test; you look at it 
and you see what you see. Some will see one thing; some will see 
others. Some will see an opportunity, for the first time, for the 
Republicans to say that accountability is needed on the part of the 
President of the United States and on the part of the government of 
Iraq. And so there are these benchmarks. But these benchmarks by no 
means meet the obligation that we have to our men and women in uniform 
if they can be as easily waived as they can be in this resolution.

The resolution that the Republicans put forth, I am really glad that 
they finally admitted that there is a need for accountability. But what 
they haven't done is met that need with something appropriate. This is 
like a fig leaf. This is a token. This is a small step forward. 
Instead, we should have a giant step forward into a new direction. So 
when I look at this inkblot, I see something that does not have 
adequate guidelines and timetables; something that does not have 
adequate consequences; and something that does not have my support. 
Democrats are proposing something much better.

Instead of a missed opportunity, we had hoped that the President 
would have accepted our proposals, which we sent to him over and over 
again, over and over again, meeting his request, and even doing more 
for our troops, for our veterans, and for strengthening our


military in ways beyond the President's request.

We now have our troops engaged in a civil war. There are reports that 
the Department of Defense has declared what is happening in Iraq to be 
a civil war. The American people do not think that it is necessary for 
us to be refereeing a civil war in Iraq. They want our focus to be on 
fighting terrorism, retraining the Iraqis, protecting our diplomats and 
our forces there, and that is exactly what Democrats have proposed. 
Instead, we have a situation where, in refereeing and engaging in 
combat in the civil war in Iraq, as the President has us doing there, 
we have lost thousands of Americans. The number is hard to measure, but 
everyone agrees, easily over 100,000 Iraqis. The cost to our reputation 
and our military readiness is incalculable, but it is huge.

We think there should be a new direction. We think what we should be 
talking about here today is a different vision for stability in the 
Middle East and how our role in Iraq contributes to that. The generals, 
including General Odierno, recently stated that any strategy for 
success in Iraq must begin with the redeployment of our troops out of 
Iraq. That is a general, a retired general, and his voice is echoed by 
other generals as well. That, again, is what we are proposing, a change 
of mission, a redeployment for a different purpose, fighting terrorism, 
which is the threat to our national security.

The focus on Afghanistan must be reemphasized as that situation 
becomes more tenuous.

If we went down the path that General Odierno suggests and which 
Democrats have proposed over and over again, we would have a 
drastically reduced need for American troops in Iraq. Our troops have 
performed their duties excellently, excellently. Every opportunity we 
get, we must honor them for their patriotism, their courage and the 
sacrifices they and their families are willing to make. Time and again, 
we do this. And as we go into Memorial Day Weekend, we do it again. And 
we convey our condolences to those who have lost a family member in 
Iraq, in Afghanistan or any of the other wars we have been engaged in.

And we have honored our veterans not just with words but with 
actions. In the last couple of weeks, under the leadership of Chairman 
Ike Skelton, Democrats put forth our Department of Defense 
Authorization bill. And in that bill, it was dedicated to troop 
readiness, with training and equipping our troops so that we don't send 
them into harm's way at a disadvantage.

Mr. Skelton's bill also calls for a 3.5 percent raise in military pay 
and a $40 survivor benefit to survivors of those who were lost in 
battle. Do you know what the President said about that in his statement 
of administrative policy? That that increase was unnecessary.

While yesterday, we had representatives of the veterans' 
organizations, especially the survivors, telling us that a $40 increase 
doesn't nearly go far enough to be commensurate with the sacrifice. We 
could never match the sacrifice, but we should at least make a 
respectable attempt at it. And for the White House to say a $40-per-
month increase for survivors of those who gave their life in battle is 
unnecessary, unnecessary to whom? So if you want to talk about 
supporting the troops, how about supporting the troops, our veterans 
and their families?

Around the same time, Chairman Spratt brought to the floor the 
Democratic budget. This budget has a $6.7 billion increase for our 
veterans; $6.7 billion more than the previous budget; historic in its 
increase, making veterans a priority, an investment in those who 
sacrifice so much for us, an investment in honoring our commitment to 
our veterans. And just this week, Chairman Chet Edwards of the 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs put forth the largest increase in the VA in the history of the 
Veterans' Administration, 77 years. This is to make up for some 
promises not kept, but it is also to say, in our spending priorities, 
even within the context of PAYGO, no new deficit spending, no increases 
in the deficit; we put veterans at the top of the list and our military 
at the top of our list.

This isn't about whether we support our troops. Of course, we support 
our troops. We all demonstrated that over and over again.



But it is about opposing this war.

This is not the end of the debate. We have to be here to bring this 
bill to the floor so we can go forward. But this debate will go on. 
There will be legislation on the floor in the next several months to 
change the mission once again from combat to fighting terrorism, 
training and diplomatic and force protection. Again, that would require 
a greatly reduced U.S. force in Iraq, and coalition force as well.

We will have legislation to repeal the President's authority for the 
war in Iraq, to repeal the authority that the President has for the war 
in Iraq. We will have that vote.

We will have votes on Mr. Murtha's defense appropriations bills: one 
of them the regular order defense appropriation bill; another one, the 
supplemental that has been requested by the administration.

Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today sad that the opportunity we 
have has been missed. There is a recognition that we need 
accountability, because the American people are demanding it. At least 
70 percent of the American people say we have to have accountability. 
So instead of putting accountability into the bill, we make a gesture 
at it. We could have taken a giant step in a new direction. Instead, we 
are taking a baby step. But, as I said, this is not the end of the 
debate.

As we think about all of this, I would like to recall the words of a 
philosopher. Hannah Arendt once observed that nations are driven by the 
endless flywheel of violence, believing that one last, one final 
gesture will bring peace. But each time they sow the seeds for more 
violence.

That is what President Bush is doing in Iraq. That has been the 
deeply flawed policy of President Bush.

Again, Democrats are proposing a new direction. I urge my colleagues 
as we go forward, however you see the inkblot, however you decide your 
vote, to join in listening to the American people in the coming days, 
weeks and months, and bring this war to an end.