# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3074, TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN  DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `799012d88a7a9e708e5b4b4d6867323f`
`Mr. KNOLLENBERG — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. KNOLLENBERG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, my colleague, Chairman Olver, has already detailed many 
of the aspects of the fiscal year 2008 conference report. I am pleased 
to say that I will support the conference report. The conference report 
has much to commend. I want to thank John Olver; John and Joe I guess 
is what it amounts to. But we have worked together very hard on this, 
along with the staffs on both sides, and I commend him for working with 
us to bring this product forward.

We meet the majority of the transportation funding guarantee as 
mandated by SAFETEA-LU, plus included some wise legislative provisions 
such as raising the airline pilot mandatory retirement age to 65 and 
prohibiting towing on Federal roads in Texas.

We didn't go overboard on funding Amtrak and kept the reforms we put 
in place 2 years ago in hopes of bringing the railroad into the modern 
age. One unfortunate point I would like to make is one of the Transit 
New Starts Project, a project for the Chicago area's commuter rail, 
Metra, the UP West Line, was inadvertently not included in the bill. It 
was funded in the House bill, and in the negotiations all sides 
supported conference funding, and I am very hopeful we can work a 
little magic to get that included.

In housing, we provided more than $100 million for about 11,000 new 
incremental vouchers for three of our most vulnerable populations: 
veterans, including those returning from Iraq who might face 
homelessness without rental assistance; nonelderly disabled 
individuals, the so-called Frelinghuysen vouchers; and vouchers to keep 
families together when facing homelessness rather than forcing the 
children into foster homes.

Further, the bill insists that these vouchers retain their use and 
purpose upon turnover when the current individuals and families no 
longer need them.

The vouchers for veterans are important and will certainly be 
welcomed throughout Michigan as well as the rest of the country. I want 
to note the intent here is not just for HUD to administer these 
vouchers, but for HUD and VA to work together so that the full array of 
eligible services are coordinated and administered jointly.



Along that same line, I strongly support a new demonstration in the 
homeless program to avoid forcing children through the trauma of 
homeless shelters by rapidly rehousing these families in secure rental 
units and providing the care and training in that setting, rather than 
through the shelter plus care process. We need to be sure, however, 
that in doing so we do not end up subsidizing drug or other illegal 
activity.

I want to also express my appreciation for the provision in the bill 
that waives the Medicaid cap on income and allows citizens in Michigan 
to voluntarily pay more and still receive rental assistance. This has 
made a tremendous difference in my district, and the new statewide 
provision will apply to all Michigan residents. Obviously, it is 
available for consideration in other states, too.

As many of my colleagues know, Michigan has been facing a severe 
credit crunch due to defaults and foreclosures resulting from the 
subprime lending boom a few years ago. The resets are around the corner 
and the problem may well get worse for Michigan before it gets better. 
But no one wants to see foreclosure, not the homeowner, not the banks, 
and certainly not the Federal Government which has insured many of 
these loans.

As a result and through extensive collaboration with my colleague, 
Chairman Olver, and our Senate counterparts, we included a provision 
that I am sure will go a long way towards stemming if not reversing the 
trend in the home mortgage market. We have included $200 million in new 
funds for intensive and extensive loan foreclosure mitigation guidance 
plus counseling and targeted funds to those areas which are facing the 
largest threat of foreclosure.

We have ensured that the funds will be in the hands of the expert 
counselors and State housing finance agencies before the loan resets 
dates hit homeowners who will find it difficult to meet the higher 
payments. We have not placed the funds in HUD, or created a financial 
handout for mortgage companies or homeowners. Instead, we are using the 
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, which is in itself expert and 
has a network of expert loan counselors throughout the country. As a 
federally chartered corporation, they will be able to avoid the many 
delaying regulatory hurdles that would result if funded through HUD, 
but still must meet all the requirements to ensure the integrity of the 
funds provided to expert counseling agencies. I firmly believe that 
Michigan will benefit greatly from the one-time funding being provided 
in this bill to help at-risk homeowners get through this difficult 
period.

Having said that, there are clearly areas in the bill that could and 
should be reduced in funding or for which funding should be allocated.

All of us have heard about the shortfall that HUD now faces in 
meeting contracts with longstanding low-income assistance providers 
under the project-based section 8 program. While better than the Senate 
bill, let's face it, we did not solve the problem. We only delayed the 
date at which the crisis will occur. Yet at the same time, the voucher 
program has $300 million in excess funds based on the new methodology 
instituted by the majority as part of the 2007 continuing resolution. 
Apparently the majority does not trust their new methodology that much, 
yet those funds could have further reduced the shortfall that HUD faces 
with project owners under the project-based program, or reduced the 
cost of the bill itself.

Furthermore, the Department continues to receive funds for a long 
list of small boutique and duplicative programs, all of which could be 
eliminated as the administration requested without harming any of the 
program.

Finally, I want to emphasize that there are no new air-dropped 
earmarks from the House minority.

I want to thank my colleague and chairman, Chairman Olver, for his 
work on this bill. I have to say he was most fair. This was a very 
inclusive conference and, because of his cooperation and the highlights 
of the bill, I will be voting ''yes'' on passage of the conference 
report.

I reserve the balance of my time