# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `799968ef9741e271b8a080bf43cc1e59`
`Mr. DODD — 19 April 2010`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I rise with a heavy heart today to mark 
the passing of Marine LCpl Tyler Griffin.

Lance Corporal Griffin was just 19 years old when he died serving our 
country in Afghanistan. He was born and raised in Voluntown, a small, 
close-knit community of just 2,600 in eastern Connecticut that today is 
struggling with the loss of one of its finest young citizens.

He graduated from Griswold High School, where he played on the 
football team, and attended the Voluntown Baptist Church. Athletic and 
intelligent, he could have devoted himself to any career, but chose to 
serve his country with great pride.

Neighbors recall him as a community fixture who always had time for 
younger kids. One says that they always knew when Tyler was home on 
leave, because a Marine Corps flag would fly proudly at his house. His 
friends and neighbors remember him not only for the example he provided 
through his selfless service, but also for his kind manner and friendly 
demeanor.

He was the product of a community that took great pride in their 
courageous marine. Bill Martin lives next door to Lance Corporal 
Griffin's mother and stepfather. He told the New London Day that he 
would often see Lance Corporal Griffin running around the neighborhood, 
getting in shape for basic training. ''We'd see him out there on Route 
49,'' Martin said. ''He'd always wave.''

In short, Lance Corporal Griffin was everything you would raise your 
son to be. I join his family, his neighbors in Voluntown, and all 
Americans in deep appreciation for his service and mourning for his 
loss.
