---
---

# CONGRATULATING GENERAL PETRAEUS AND AMBASSADOR CROCKER
## `79ad3e56afbdc4ebd30850fda94a687b`
`Mr. REID — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, 71 percent of the American people believe 
that invasion of Iraq was a mistake, a foreign policy blunder, some say 
the worst this country has ever done, the worst foreign policy 
blunder--71 percent. During that poll, there were a few percentage 
points where people had no opinion. So about 15 percent of the people 
think the invasion of Iraq was the right decision. We must get our 
troops home. The sooner we do that, the better off we are.

I look forward to General Petraeus's and Ambassador Crocker's hearing 
today before the two relevant committees in the House. When this is all 
over and done with, we will be able to assess when we can have a better 
opportunity of bringing our troops home. As we indicated earlier today, 
it seems difficult--when the violence is up, we need more troops and 
when it is down we need more troops. We can't have it both ways.

The military is at a breaking point. I am not saying that; I am 
repeating what others have said. General Cody, who is a four-star 
general on Active Duty, has said he has never seen our military in such 
a state of disrepair as it is now. So things aren't glowingly good. We 
have to work together to try to rebuild our military, and one way we 
can do that is focus on getting the right number of troops to 
Afghanistan and rebuilding our military, which is, as General Cody 
said, in very bad shape.