# IRAQ
## `79b3456f9ede46541946fb2c98c102d4`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from 
Missouri for being so understanding. I will make my comments quite 
brief.

The entire success of the President's plan of escalation is 
predicated on the fact that the Iraqi Army is, in fact, reliable. 
Therefore, in every one of our hearings in our committees--be it the 
Armed Services Committee, be it the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, 
be it the Senate Intelligence Committee--I have asked that question of 
the various witnesses, most of whom are representatives of the 
administration or representatives of our U.S. military. Up to this 
moment, not one of the administration witnesses can tell us that the 
Iraqi Army is, in fact, reliable in a plan that is essential that they 
are, which is to clear the area, hold the area, and then rebuild the 
infrastructure. In the clear phase, it is not only the Iraqi Army and 
the U.S. military--by the way, not in a single unified command but in 
dual commands of which the Iraqi Army will be the most force in 
personnel--and I have heard that 60/40 is the ratio; maybe it is more 
than that--60 percent Iraqi Army and 40 percent U.S. Therefore, it is 
essential that the Iraqi Army is reliable.

Yet every witness has not been able to tell us that, including up to 
today's witness, the Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates, who I think 
is doing an excellent job. But when I laid this out to him in front of 
our committee--in this case, the Senate Armed Services Committee--
today, his answer was, as of this morning, that we have to wait and 
see.

Well, I am just a little country lawyer, but doesn't it seem logical 
that if the President's whole plan is predicated on the reliability of 
the Iraqi Army, and at this moment we still have to wait and see on the 
reliability of the Iraqi Army, then is that reason for us to escalate 
our troops in Baghdad out of 21,000, with some 17,500 going into 
Baghdad, on a plan that we do not know is going to work?

It is on that basis that this Senator from Florida opposes this troop 
increase. I have said on this floor several times that the Marine 
generals in the west of Iraq, in Anbar Province, convinced me that an 
escalation of troops there would help them, since that is all Sunni, 
and since the main enemy there is al-Qaida. But that is western Iraq; 
that is not Baghdad where the sectarian violence is.

Mr. President, I will just conclude my remarks by saying that I think 
it is our only hope of stabilizing Iraq, that it depends on three 
successful initiatives: No. 1, an aggressive diplomatic effort led by 
the U.S. with Iraq and its neighbors to quickly find a political 
settlement between Iraq's warring factions; two, Iraqis taking 
responsibility for providing for their own security; three, a massive 
and effective international reconstruction program.

With regard to the first of these initiatives, an intense diplomatic 
effort aimed at helping Iraq with a political settlement has been 
discussed many times by most of our Senators. This Senator believes it 
must include sufficient autonomy for Iraq's various regions and 
communities but a stake for all in the central government; an oil 
revenue sharing law; a reversal of debaathification--partial reversal--
and a revised constitutional amendment process.

The lack of a major diplomatic effort to build an international 
coalition to support a political settlement is truly baffling. Iraq is 
in a full-blown crisis.

So we need at least one, if not several, high-level special envoys 
empowered by the President and endorsed by congressional leadership. 
Working together, they need to be on the ground every day, throughout 
the Middle East, in Europe and Asia, and at the United Nations.

The goal should be--within a month--to assemble an international 
conference at which all of Iraq's neighbors and other key nations would 
endorse the framework of a political settlement.

It became painfully evident to me during my last trip to Iraq that 
Prime Minister al-Maliki either lacks the will or the nerve to take on 
the Shiite militias on whose backing he depends for power. For example, 
his rushed execution of Saddam Hussein--certainly justified, but 
horribly carried out--spoke


volumes about his insensitivity to the concerns of the Sunnis.

Initiative No. 2: As for Iraqis taking responsibility for their own 
security, this will only take place if U.S. troops begin to pull back 
from the primary combat role they now play and shift to an advisory 
capacity.

Where are those words ringing familiar, Mr. President? From the Iraq 
study commission, Jim Baker and Lee Hamilton's commission. They offered 
this recommendation.

Rather than increasing our forces in Iraq, as the President has 
proposed, we should be transitioning the troops to training and 
advising Iraqi troops, training and advising antiterrorism missions and 
border security.

Finally, the third initiative: The massive reconstruction effort 
requires a reconstruction czar, a person of the highest integrity who 
will cut through the redtape, demand our agencies produce the results 
working together and deliver construction assistance quickly and 
directly to Iraqi communities.

Concurrently, this official should convene a donors conference to 
elicit pledges of assistance from our international partners and to 
hold them accountable for delivering this aid quickly.

In short and in summary, the cost of failure in Iraq will be 
catastrophic in growing threats to us and to our allies and in more 
American and Iraqi lives lost if we do not awaken to the reality that 
diplomacy, not a military solution, is what is needed to end the 
sectarian violence in Iraq.

I wish to paraphrase what the President of the United States, when I 
was a student in college, President Kennedy, said in 1961: We must 
always be ready and willing to bear arms to defend our freedoms, but as 
long as we know what comprises our vital interest or our long-range 
goals, we have nothing to fear from diplomacy.

I thank the Chair.