# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `79bf061fed7d954def6f3210ad7dfca7`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Chairman, I have the honor to serve as the 
chairman of the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of our Armed Services 
Committee. I would like first to thank my own personal archbishop, Doug 
Roach, and all the acolytes on the Air and Land subcommittee, the 
subcommittee staff. They do a terrific job working with Ike Skelton's 
overall staff, led by Erin. I cannot tell you what a pleasure it is 
every day to be working with them in the manner in which they conduct 
themselves; professional, disciplined, focused, something I wish I 
could say about myself more often than I do.

Again, on the personal comment side, I want to thank my good friend, 
Duncan Hunter. Always, without fail, in all these years, attentive, 
polite, always welcoming commentary and seeking advice. We may say 
farewell to you, Duncan, but we will not be saying goodbye.

Finally, Mr. Jim Saxton, whom I don't see on the floor today. Jim 
Saxton may have his position taken, but no one is going to replace him 
in this Congress. He has been my friend. He has been my mentor. I have 
served as a ranking member on various committees, not just here, but on 
other committees, as well as having the opportunity to chair. I never 
considered myself a ranking member or a chairman where Jim Saxton was 
concerned. We were colleagues.

This bill is about balancing the capabilities and readiness of our 
current military forces with future required military capabilities. Our 
military personnel is at risk each and every day. The first priority is 
to make sure the men and women in uniform are properly supported by 
ensuring our military programs adequately support current military 
requirements.

We cannot short-change our personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan in their 
need for adequate equipment and the needs of our National Guard units 
here at home for what they may require to respond to potential national 
disasters. Promised future capabilities that have already been delayed 
because of overly optimistic and unmet schedules cannot subsume meeting 
today's demonstrated needs.

The Air and Land Forces Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes $90 
billion in Army and Air Force programs. Our objective, Mr. Chairman, is 
clear, to ensure that our military personnel get the best available 
equipment as soon as it has been properly tested, equipment like 
armored vehicles, body armor, improvised explosive device jammers, 
unmanned aerial vehicles, small arms, and night vision devices.

We address key requirements: An increase in Army procurement and 
research of $557 million over the budget request, procurement and 
research where it's needed now, demonstrating the commitment of the 
Armed Services Committee to meeting these many needs. The Army in 
particular is carrying the heaviest burden of all the services in the 
war in which we are now engaged. This bill shifts funding to critical 
Army priorities now; $2.6 billion to fund sustainments costs for the 
tactical vehicle referred to as the MRAP, Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected Vehicle, to better protect our personnel against mines and 
improvised explosive devices; $2.7 billion for counterimprovised 
explosive device programs, $949 million for Humvees, $783 million for 
body armor; $800 million for funding for much-needed National Guard and 
Reserve equipment.

Yes, we have reallocated funds in this budget where we have to meet 
the needs of the serving Army and Air Force today.

Fifteen C-17 strategic airlift aircraft added, at a cost of $3.9 
billion dollars. It maintains the C-17 production line and sustains the 
strategic airlift fleet. Joint Strike Fighter competitive engine 
program has been funded for $526 million to provide necessary 
competition of two producers of engines for that program; $246 million 
added for systems to counter rocket and mortar attacks on our forces.

To fund these priorities, we had to make reallocation choices to fund 
the highest priorities. Some programs will have to make adjustments. No 
program is adversely compromised. On the contrary, increased 
accountability and increased oversight are the result.

In closing, I want to thank the distinguished chairman, all the 
ranking members of the full committee and the subcommittees, and may I 
say, Mr. Skelton, as I close, that it is a particular pleasure and an 
honor to serve with you. As I stand here today, I am thinking of Suzie 
Skelton. I know how proud she is of you.