# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `79c7801360e351d43049056e8a77f5b3`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 5 January 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Six years, $3 trillion in new debt. The largest 
accumulation of debt in the shortest period of time in American 
history. That is the legacy. And the one thing you can say about George 
Bush and this economy is we will be forever in your debt. That is the 
one thing that is clear.

Now, folks, I am glad that you have the sentiment to be for this, but 
you had the inability to do it. We are going to do something you talked 
about, but we actually are going to walk the walk and not just talk the 
talk. We are going to put this fiscal house in order.

And you did get handed a surplus prior to total Republican control. 
You got handed a surplus. It wasn't illusory. Nobody could not find it. 
We knew exactly where it was. And you spent it. You did something no 
American President and no Congress had ever tried in American history. 
Three wars, three tax cuts, $3 trillion in new debt. I don't know what 
your fixation is about that. You have got a fixation for the number 
three. I have no idea why. But that is what you did. You had a war in 
Iraq, a war on terror, a war in Afghanistan. You tried three major tax 
cuts, and you got $3 trillion in new debt. And on day number two, the 
Democrats have said enough is enough with running up the debt and the 
deficit of this country. We are going to begin to take steps to put our 
fiscal house in order.

And let's start with number one, and that is earmark reform. When the 
Republican Congress took over in 1995, throughout the entire Federal 
budget, 1,400 earmarks. At the end of the Republican Congress, there 
were 13,997 earmarks. Now, I know your kids know the explosion on those 
numbers from 1,400 to nearly 14,000 earmarks. And we are going to use 
the disinfectant of sunlight. And everybody is going to know everything 
they need to know about these earmarks.

Now let me use one quote over the years when we were dealing with 
earmarks. A famous lobbyist called earmarks ''an ATM for lobbyists.'' 
Well, folks, that is part of ethics and lobbying reform, and we are 
going to change that. It is not going to be an ATM machine for the 
special interests anymore because this Congress, that gavel, is going 
to open up the people's House, not the auction house. And that is what 
has happened here over the years.

Number two, pay-as-you-go rules. I worked for an administration that 
had pay-as-you-go rules. It created discipline not just for 
Republicans, not just for Democrats. For the government. For the 
American people's money. And we created a surplus through hard work and 
discipline. These two steps, pay-as-you-go rules, no new spending 
without the revenue to pay for them; and earmark reform, will actually 
change our fiscal house and also the attitude in which we deal with 
things, and there won't be this insidious relationship between 
lobbyists and the American people's money. We will do what we need to 
do. And step one is lobbying and ethics reform, to change how 
Washington does the people's business; and step two is to put their 
government's fiscal house in order. That is what we are doing, and I 
know in your heart of hearts because I know you as individuals, and I 
see a number of Members here who are nodding their heads ''yes,'' you 
would like to be for this, but you just can't seem to find that little 
green button. So this is a chance to vote for it.

Remember all the rhetoric and all the speeches you gave on earmark 
reform, fiscal discipline. You believe what is going on here is the 
right thing to do. You know it is the right thing to do. But because of 
party loyalties, you won't do that. That is exactly what we applauded 
yesterday was to put partisanship aside and join us in the act of 
patriotism. I know you would like to vote ''yes.'' In your heart of 
hearts you would like to vote ''yes.'' And I am proud that we are doing 
what you have only talked about because we will not just talk the talk. 
We will walk the walk.