---
---

# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `79cf9701e6830978af90101b418be2e8`
`Mr. ROSS — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Colorado for joining me this 
evening here on the floor to talk about restoring accountability to our 
government and demanding responsibility from the Iraqi people.

The American people spoke loud and clear on election day: they are 
ready for a new direction in Iraq. They don't want more of the same; 
they want a new direction. And that is what will be voted on on the 
floor of the House tomorrow. There will be a lot of 
mischaracterizations of what we are voting on.

Here is the bottom line: we are giving the President every penny he 
asked for for Iraq. Above and beyond that, we are going to provide 
funding for Walter Reed Army Hospital and for other VA hospital 
facilities to ensure that this new generation of veterans coming home, 
not only from Iraq, but also from Afghanistan, receive the very best in 
health care available to them, because we owe it to them. We owe a huge 
debt of gratitude to our brave men and women in uniform who have done 
everything that has been asked of them.

What this bill also does, I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, that 
people understand this, the other thing this bill says is that we will 
have troops in Iraq for another year. And even after the year is up, we 
will continue to have troops there; but instead of having our men and 
women in uniform from America on the front lines getting shot at and 
wounded and killed, we will be there in an advisory role to train 
Iraqis and demand, a year from now, demand that they step up, that they 
step up and provide the police and military force for their country.

I think it is very important that the American people understand we 
are going to send our brave men and women in uniform every dime the 
President has asked for them, but we are also going to demand 
accountability and responsibility by the Iraqi people and tell them a 
year from now it is their turn.