# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `79d76c4d9ce94a8be4267b73cbf168da`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, when I am completed talking about the 
economy, we will return to the Indian affairs business and debate the 
bill on the floor. If there are those who wish to offer amendments, I 
certainly hope we can bring them to the floor and debate them and vote 
on them.

As I mentioned, I would like to talk for a moment about the economy. 
There is the 24/7 news hour all across this country talking about what 
is happening: What on Earth is going on in this country's economy? What 
is happening in the stock market, which is moving up and down like a 
yo-yo--not so much up anymore but down substantially in recent weeks 
and months.

So what is happening? There are many pieces of evidence to suggest 
this economy is in very big trouble, including a substantial reduction 
in the stock market, an increase in unemployment, and a dramatic drop 
in housing starts. As a result of all of that,


there has been frenzied activity, both at the White House and in the 
Congress, to talk about something called a stimulus package. We need to 
do a fiscal stimulus package.

In fact, the President announced a stimulus package of $145 billion 
to $150 billion. That is a stimulus package of about 1 percent of our 
gross domestic product in this country.

Yesterday, the Federal Reserve Board took action in monetary policy 
to cut a key interest rate by 75 basis points. That was a significant 
and aggressive move by the Federal Reserve Board. This Congress and 
this President will want to make some aggressive moves with a stimulus 
package that are complementary to what has been done in monetary 
policy.

I make this point that is very important: If that is what we do, and 
all that we do, we fundamentally misunderstand what is wrong. I think 
most of the American people understand what is wrong. Certainly, most 
of the people around the world who look at this country understand we 
have gone off the track. If we don't fix our trade policy and fiscal 
policy, and if we don't fix things that need regulating that have 
largely been outside of the view of regulators, we are going to 
continue to be in very big trouble. Let me go through just a couple of 
these items.


We have the largest trade deficit in human history. Every single day, 
7 days a week, we import $2 billion more than we export. That means 
every single day we add another $2 billion to the indebtedness of this 
country. That is over $700 billion a year. We are hemorrhaging in red 
ink. We have to fix it. Warren Buffett, a remarkably successful 
investor in this country, said it quite clearly: This is unsustainable, 
this cannot continue.

The fact is, the President and the Congress act as if nothing is 
wrong. We have the most unbelievably inept trade policy in the history 
of humankind--$2 billion a day we import more than we export. That 
means we are putting dollars that we pay for those goods in the hands 
of foreigners, and they are coming back to buy part of America. We are 
literally selling part of this country. But the fact is, you cannot 
hemorrhage in red ink like that for any great length of time without 
having significant consequences. It is what undermines your currency. 
It undermines confidence in your economy.

You add to that $700 billion-plus a year trade deficit a fiscal 
policy that is reckless and ill-considered. It is as if we think people 
cannot see. It is like a drunk who thinks they are invisible. The fact 
is, we have an unbelievable fiscal policy deficit. They say: Well, it 
is $200 billion, $300 billion. Nonsense. Take a look at what we have to 
borrow for fiscal policy every year. The reason they show the lower 
deficit is because they are misusing the Social Security revenues. Take 
a look at the real deficit. It is likely to be over half a trillion 
dollars this year. You add that to the trade deficit and then ask 
yourself, if you were looking from the outside into this country, do 
you think this is off track, the fundamentals are out of line? Do you 
think they have to be fixed? The answer is yes. We have very serious 
abiding problems. You add to that an unbelievably inept fiscal policy 
hemorrhaging in red ink and is way off track.

By the way, it is not just the normal budgetary Presidential requests 
and congressional actions on spending and taxing. The President, in the 
last year, sent to the Congress, in addition to outside-the-budget 
system, he said: I want you to appropriate money for me, $196 billion--
that, by the way, is $16 billion a month, $4 billion a week--and I 
don't want any of it paid for; I want it added to the debt because I 
want it for Iraq, Afghanistan, and other activities with respect to the 
war. That takes us to over two-thirds of a trillion dollars this 
President has asked for, none of it paid for. We will send our soldiers 
to war, but we will not do anything that requires any effort on our 
part to begin to pay for it. We will send soldiers to war and say: Come 
back and you pay for it later.

In addition to a fiscal policy that just does not work, we are now 
engaged in a war in which we borrow the money. Even as we borrow the 
money for the war, we have a President who says: I want more permanent 
tax cuts, mostly for the wealthy. It is not a secret. Everyone sees 
what is going on--everyone, apparently, except those in the White House 
and those in the Congress.

We have to fix the fundamentals, and if we do not, there isn't any 
amount of fiscal policy stimulus or any amount of activity by the 
Federal Reserve Board that is going to set this straight. It just is 
not.

You add to that inept trade policy and the hemorrhaging of red ink on 
fiscal policy that is reckless and out of control these issues: 
regulators who really do not care. They come to the body of regulatory 
responsibility bragging that they don't like government. What happens? 
We have what is called a subprime lending crisis. What does that mean? 
What it means is no one was watching and no one cared very much, and 
what we had was an orgy of greed with respect to an industry that is 
essential to this country--that is, providing loans so people can buy 
homes.

We had a bunch of highfliers decide: What we really want to do is to 
sell you a loan, and we want to put you in a new home. To do that, we 
will give you rates that you will not even believe. We will give you a 
home loan at a 2-percent interest rate--2 percent. We will quote the 
payment. That looks good, a 2-percent interest rate. What they don't 
tell you is the interest rate is going to reset in 3 years, it is going 
to reset way up, and then you will not be able to make the payments, or 
they do not tell you there also is an escrow you have to pay every 
month on top of that.

Here is what was going on. This was an advertisement on television:




 Do you have bad credit? Do you have trouble getting a loan? 


 You've been missing payments on your home loan? Filed for 


 bankruptcy? Doesn't matter. Come to us. We've got financing 


 available for you.


We have all heard these ads and probably scratched our heads and 
wondered: How on Earth can this happen? The fact is, it can.

I will give an example. The biggest mortgage lender is Countrywide, 
which now is being purchased by Bank of America, apparently. The CEO of 
Countrywide, Mr. Mozilo, made off now with hundreds of millions of 
dollars. They had brokers cold-calling people saying: We want to put 
you in a subprime loan. Then they sold these subprime loans. They 
packaged these subprime loans with other good loans. They were enticing 
people into these loans at teaser interest rates that were going to 
reset in ways people could not afford to pay. Then they decided, just 
as in the old days when the discussion was about meat-packing plants 
and they put sausage and sawdust together--when you make sausage, you 
need a filler. So they put sawdust in sausage. These companies that 
were hawking these loans decided to put good loans with bad loans, 
subprime with other loans, and then mix them all up like a big-old 
sausage, and they would slice them up, securitize them, and sell them.


Who wanted to buy them? The rating agencies were sitting there dead 
from the neck up: This looks OK. We don't understand it, but it looks 
good to us. Hedge funds were saying: I like these new pieces of 
financial sausage because they are sliced up in a way that has a big 
yield. Why a big yield? Because they had prepayment penalties for the 
loans, loans that would reset to much higher interest rates that people 
couldn't make. This new piece of financial sausage shows a very high 
yield. So the hedge funds, liking high yields and liking big money, are 
buying all these securitized loans, and then all of a sudden, it goes 
belly up. And we wonder why. It is because people were advertising on 
television: You have bad credit? Have you filed for bankruptcy? Come to 
us; we want to give you a loan. Then they package this up in an 
irresponsible way.

One might ask the question: How could that all have happened? Weren't 
there some regulators around? No, no. The regulators were first 
ignoring them and then actually giving them a boost. Alan Greenspan now 
stands around scratching his head thinking: What on Earth happened? It 
happened on your watch, my friend. The Federal Reserve Board did 
nothing. In fact, part of this housing bubble that occurred was part of 
the air that comes from these unbelievable subprime loans that boosted 
that bubble. Again, Warren Buffett said: Every bubble will burst. And 
this one did. It shouldn't


have surprised us. But regulators sat by and said: That doesn't matter.

Did anybody care about those brokers placing a $1 million jumbo 
subprime loan, making a $30,000 commission on that loan? Did anybody 
say: Wait a second, what you are doing is misleading the folks who are 
going to borrow the money; you can't do that. Did anybody say to the 
rating agencies: You can't be rating as top-grade securities this 
sausage with sawdust, these financial instruments that have stuck 
together bad loans with good loans; you can't do that. Did anybody say 
to the hedge funds: You are buying a pig in a poke here; you are buying 
something you think is high yield, but you know better than that. What 
happened was all of this went out over the transom, and nobody even 
knows where it is or how much it is. Now they can't untangle it to find 
out where all these subprime loans exist. Nobody knows.

The next time somebody talks about regulation, understand, sometimes 
regulation is very important. The danger to this economy, as a result 
of the subprime scandal, is very significant. It is having consequences 
all across this country. You add this subprime scandal and its 
consequences to a fiscal policy that is reckless, to a trade policy 
that is inept, and then add this final factor: We have a circumstance 
where a gambler goes into a casino in Las Vegas and, in most cases, the 
sum total of what they will lose is the money they have carried into 
the casino--that is the risk of loss.

Here is the other fact about what is happening in our economy that 
nobody wants to talk about. We have hedge funds--yes, they are called 
hedge funds, mostly unregulated--to the tune of about $1.2 trillion. 
Some would say that is not so much, $1.2 trillion. There is $9 trillion 
of mutual funds. There is something like $40 trillion of the total 
aggregate value of stocks and bonds. So $1.2 trillion in hedge funds, 
that is not so much, except one-half of all the trading on the New York 
Stock Exchange is done by those hedge funds. And those hedge funds have 
created, among other things, derivatives. There was something like a 
notional value of $26 trillion in credit default swaps at the end of 
2006.

It sounds very much like a foreign language when I say it, but the 
product everyone is worried about at the moment is something called 
credit default swaps, trillions of dollars of credit default 
derivatives--fancy financial instruments, much fancier than sausage 
with sawdust but in many ways the same thing. The interesting thing 
about these hedge funds is the dramatic amounts of borrowing, so they 
are not going to lose just what they go into the casino with in their 
pocket money. They are so heavily leveraged and so deep in credit 
default swaps that this could have significant consequences for our 
economy.

I and others have spoken on this floor for several years about the 
need for regulation of hedge funds. I have spoken on this floor many 
times about the issue of derivatives and the total aggregate notional 
value of derivatives and its potential consequence to the economy in a 
downturn.

A friend told me there is a saying on Wall Street that you will never 
know who is swimming naked until the tide goes out, and then it might 
not be very attractive. When the tide goes out with respect to this 
economy's difficulties and we evaluate who in the hedge funds, in the 
investment banks, who in all of these enterprises is left who cannot 
pay the bills because they were so unbelievably leveraged in financial 
interests most Americans have never heard of, credit default swaps, 
what are the consequences to our country's economy?

If this does not sober up our Government on trade policy and fiscal 
policy and regulatory requirements with respect to hedge funds and 
derivatives, then nothing will. If this does not alert all of us that 
we are no longer operating behind a screen somehow--the world sees what 
is happening when there is a subprime loan scandal, the world 
understands it, and its consequences are felt all across this country 
and all across the globe.

I understand we are going to do something called a stimulus package. 
We have a roughly $13 trillion-plus economy. We are going to do a 
stimulus package probably of $140 billion, $150 billion--1 percent of 
our economy. I understand the Federal Reserve has taken substantial 
action, 75 basis points yesterday. That is a big deal for the Fed, and 
I understand why. It is to try to calm the nerves and say this country 
stands behind its economy, and we should. I believe in this country's 
economy. This engine of opportunity and engine of growth is unusual in 
the world. On this planet, we circle the Sun, and there are about 6.4 
billion neighbors, half who live on less than $2 a day and half who 
have never made a telephone call, and we have the opportunity to live 
in this country. This is a wonderful place. We have built something 
unusual on this planet, but we have run into difficulty. No one seems 
to want to admit it, and we have to fix the fundamentals. Yes, we can 
do stimulative packages, but if we don't fix the fundamentals, we will 
not solve the problems for the future, we will not expand opportunity 
for the future.

There is so much to say and so much to be concerned about, but there 
is so much hope for the future if--if--we understand that a stimulus 
package is not our only responsibility. We have to fix trade and fiscal 
policy, and regulatory responsibility. We need to begin regulating 
hedge funds and be concerned about the notional value of derivatives. 
If we do not start doing that, we are not going to fix this issue, and 
we are not going to have a better future.

I feel very strongly, if we do what is right, that we can provide 
substantial opportunity for this country, but the right things will 
include much more than a stimulus package.

Mr. President, I would like, in concluding my portion of morning 
business, I would like to talk about the underlying bill on the floor 
of the Senate, that is the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.

I spoke yesterday at some length, but I wish to again talk a little 
bit about why we are here and what all this means because I think it is 
so important. Some might say: Well, why is there an Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act? Why not a Norwegian or a Lutheran Health Care 
Improvement Act?

The Indian Health Care Improvement Act is designed that way, with 
that name, for a very specific reason. This country, for a long period 
of time, told American Indians: Look, we are going to take your land, 
we are going to force you to a reservation someplace, and we will write 
a treaty for you. Our treaty is going to tell you we are going to take 
care of your health care. We are going to meet our obligation. We have 
a trust responsibility for you.

So we will take your land, we will move you off to reservations, but, 
trust us, we are going to provide for your health care because that is 
our trust responsibility. Chief Joseph from the Nez Perce Tribe said:




 Good words do not last unless they amount to something. 


 Words do not pay for dead people. Good words cannot give me 


 back my children. Good words will not give my people good 


 health and stop them from dying.


He was concerned long ago about the inability of this country to keep 
its word on these trust responsibilities. We are here today because, 
finally, back in the early 1970s, President Nixon, President Ford, and 
every President succeeding them understood we have a trust 
responsibility for Indian health care. That is a fact.

In 1970, President Nixon noted we had 30 licensed Native American 
physicians in all our country. Thirty. And we created back then a self-
determination policy. In 1976, President Ford signed into law the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act. That is what we discuss today on 
the floor of the Senate.

I spoke yesterday, and I wish to again briefly about the challenge. I 
have held a lot of listening sessions on Indian reservations, and, 
frankly, the challenges we face are daunting.

Indian reservations see unbelievable health challenges. On a good 
many reservations, you will find one-half of the adult population who 
are suffering from diabetes. On the northern Great Plains, the rate of 
death from suicide among teenagers on Indian reservations is not double 
or triple, not 5 times the national average, but 10 times the national 
average of teen suicide.

I have held hearings about that. I have sat down with Indian 
teenagers on an Indian reservation, no other adults present, to say: 
What is going on in


your lives? What is happening? What is causing those clusters of 
suicides? There are so many problems of diabetes and suicide and so 
many other issues on reservations, dealing with health care. Part of it 
is because this system is so dramatically underfunded.

I wish to mention Ardel Hale Baker. Ardel Hale Baker is a woman on an 
Indian reservation who allowed me to use her photograph. Ardel Hale 
Baker was having a heart attack, diagnosed as a heart attack at a 
clinic. She didn't want them to call an ambulance. The nearest hospital 
was an hour and a half, hour and three-quarters away. She was lucky she 
got to the clinic when it was opened because the clinic, I believe, is 
open from 9 o'clock until 5 o'clock or 4 o'clock, with an hour closed 
for lunch hour. It is not open on weekends, but that is the health care 
on that reservation.

But she went there when the clinic was open. She was diagnosed as 
having a heart attack. She did not want them to call an ambulance 
because she knew that if the ambulance was not paid for by the Indian 
Health Service, she did not have any money and it would ruin her 
credit, because they would come after her.

So they said: No matter what you want, you are getting an ambulance. 
They put her in an ambulance, drove her about an hour and three-
quarters to the nearest hospital. As they unloaded this woman from the 
ambulance gurney to a hospital gurney to pull her into the emergency 
room, they discovered a piece of paper attached to her thigh with a 
piece of tape.

I want to show you the paper that was attached to the thigh of Ardel 
Hale Baker as she was being wheeled into a hospital with a diagnosis of 
a heart attack. This is from the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services. It is a letter attached to this woman's leg with masking 
tape. It says on the letter that: You should understand that you have 
received outpatient medical services from your doctor at so and so. And 
this letter is to inform you that your priority one care cannot be paid 
for at this time, due to funding issues.

What they were saying is, as they wheeled this Indian woman into the 
emergency room, they were saying to the hospital: Understand this. That 
whatever care you give her is not going to be paid for, because we are 
out of contract health care funds.

On that reservation, everyone knows the refrain: Do not get sick 
after June because they are out of contract health care funds. What 
does this do? Well, if they treat this woman, then they have a bill 
that they go after this woman on. She does not have the ability to pay 
it. So it ruins her credit rating quickly, just like that. I cannot 
tell you the number of adults I have run into on these reservations who 
have had their credit ratings ruined because contract health care would 
not pay for health care.

They did not have the money. They were treated anyway, but then it 
ruined their credit rating. This is an example of what is happening 
over and over. It is happening today, on Wednesday.

Yesterday, I spoke about a beautiful young woman named Ta'shon Rain 
Littlelight. I was on the Crow Reservation in Montana. And Ta'shon Rain 
Littlelight's grandmother stood up at a meeting on health care. And 
this little 5-year-old girl, with the bright eyes and the beautiful 
traditional dress, loved to dance at age 5. And she apparently was a 
good dancer.

Ta'shon Rain Littlelight is dead. She lived the last 3 months of her 
life in unmedicated pain. This little girl was taken again and again 
and again and again to the Indian health clinic. And she was treated 
for depression. Depression.

At one of the visits, her grandparents said: Well, she has a bulbous 
condition on her toes and her fingers which suggests maybe she is not 
getting oxygen or something else is wrong, can you check? Treated her 
for depression.

One day she was airlifted to Billings, MT, to the hospital. In 
arriving at the hospital in Billings, MT, she was very quickly then 
airlifted to the Children's Hospital in Denver, CO, and diagnosed with 
terminal cancer.

Now Ta'shon Rain Littlelight was a 5-year-old child. She would not 
have known the challenges of this issue of Indian health care. When 
diagnosed with a terminal illness, she told her mother what she wanted 
to do was to go see Cinderella's castle. And the Make-A-Wish Foundation 
folks made that happen.

A few weeks later, she was in Orlando, FL. The night before she was 
to see Cinderella's castle, in the hotel room, in her mother's arms, 
she died.

And Ta'shon Rain Littlelight told her mother that night before she 
died: Mommy, I will try to get better. Mommy, I am sorry I am sick.

This little girl lived in unmedicated pain with an undiagnosed 
illness for many months. Would that have happened in our families? 
Would it?

A woman goes to a doctor on an Indian reservation, with so much pain 
in her leg because her knee is bone-on-bone, unbelievable pain. And she 
is told: Wrap it in cabbage leaves for 4 days and it will be fine.

The doctor who subsequently treated her off the reservation said it 
was unbelievable. This is the woman who had a knee condition with such 
unbelievable pain that any of us or our families would immediately have 
wanted to have a new knee, a replacement. But she was told to wrap it 
in cabbage leaves for 4 days and it will be okay.

Now, if I sound angry about what is going on, I am. Because this 
country has a responsibility to do better. We have a responsibility for 
health care for two special groups of people. One, Federal prisoners 
whom we send, incarcerated, to Federal prisons because they have 
committed crimes. When they are in a Federal prison, it is our 
responsibility for their health care, and we provide it.

We also have a responsibility because we promised and made a solemn 
trust oath to provide health care for American Indians. We even signed 
that into treaty after treaty. Now, all these years later, I find we 
are spending twice as much per person to provide health care for 
incarcerated Federal prisoners as we are to provide health care for 
American Indians.

That is why Ta'shon Rain Littlelight loses her life or at least does 
not have the kind of care and diagnosis we would expect for ourselves 
or our families or other Americans. That is why we have to fix it.

So having said all that I--I am sorry to go through it again--but I 
feel so strongly that this Congress has to take responsibility. Having 
said all that, there is much we can do. We have put together a piece of 
legislation that is 10 years too late. Ten years this Congress has 
delayed in reauthorizing this bill.

Finally, we are on the floor of the Senate to reauthorize this bill. 
This legislation is not perfect. It is a step forward, a step in the 
right direction. One of my colleagues will come and say: I demand 
reform. Well, he cannot demand it more than I demand it. But if you 
cannot get the first step done, how are you going to talk about reform 
10 years after this should have been done?

I am looking for amendments that can be brought to the floor that can 
strengthen this. I am for those amendments. As soon as this passes, our 
committee is going to immediately begin a much broader reform of Indian 
health care.

But first and foremost, we have to move forward. We expand cancer 
diagnosis and treatments, we expand the opportunities for dialysis, we 
expand the opportunity for diabetes programs, we expand the 
opportunities to recruit doctors and nurses on Indian reservations. We 
do a lot of things in this bill that advance the interests of Indian 
health care.

It is not all I would like to do, but it is a significant step 
forward, that will improve the lives of people who today are not 
getting what was expected and what was promised by this country. This 
country has a responsibility to meet this, and I am determined, 
somehow, someway, we are going to meet it.

It appears, toward the end of this afternoon, the majority leader has 
indicated we have to go to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 
because we have a February 1 deadline on that. We likely will not get 
this bill done by the end of this afternoon. We will then turn to FISA 
and work on FISA, I believe, perhaps today, tomorrow, perhaps Friday 
and Saturday, according to the majority leader.

But when the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act is completed, the 
majority leader told our caucus a bit ago, then we will pull this back 
on the floor and finish this piece of legislation.



So I ask my colleagues to come to the floor with amendments. Let us 
debate amendments, talk through amendments, improve this bill, if we 
can. But most importantly, let us get to the end, get it passed and 
have a conference with the House and, finally, after 10 long years, 
send this to the President for signature.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.