---
---

# None
## `79ee0dca2d480ca277c9f218c4b9bb6e`
`Mr. HUNTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Reserving the right to object, Madam Chairman, I will not 
object, except I want to talk to my friend about what he calls 
earmarks.

A couple of years ago when our guys started to get hurt with roadside 
bombs in Iraq, we realized that there were no jammers to jam those 
electronic signals that detonate the 155 rounds that were blowing up 
American Marines and soldiers, no portable jammers. That means while we 
had the big jammers we carry in the trucks to protect convoys, there 
were no jammers to protect that squad of Marines or soldiers working 
through a courtyard in Ramadi or Fallujah.

This committee put in $10 million for 10,000, jammers which we 
researched and developed, manufactured and deployed in the field in 70 
days. Those were earmarks.

Now, if the gentleman's assertation is true, and the whole theme of 
his argument here is if the Pentagon doesn't request it, it's not 
needed, I disagree with it. This is what the Pentagon had for portable 
jammers for our troops: zero.

I can tell the gentleman about the system that we put in that has had 
a very salutary effect on the ability of the enemy to hurt our troops 
with mortars, also so-called earmarks. I can tell the gentleman about 
our surveillance programs that we added to, also so-called earmarks. I 
could tell the gentleman that I put in the defense budget a couple of 
years ago, along with my good friend Ike Skelton, an increase in U.S. 
Marine Corps, taking them up at that point to 180,000. Today nobody 
suggests that we should somehow discharge those Marines because we 
added them above and beyond the President's budget. In fact, the 
President now has come back and said, you know, you guys in the Armed 
Services Committee were right, and because of that, they put in a 
request this year for 7,000 more Army troops and 5,000 more Marines.

So I would just say to the gentleman it's our job, our responsibility 
under the Constitution, to build this defense budget. It's not the 
Pentagon's. In fact, the Constitution doesn't mention the Pentagon.

Now, what I do with the initiatives that I put in, I put them on the 
Internet. How's that for disclosure? I think at least a couple hundred 
people see that. Now, with respect to how many people see these, we put 
out the directive report language. Everybody sees that. But you mark up 
your subcommittees only a few days, sometimes as much as a week but 
rarely longer, before you go to full committee. And so the tables that 
have all of the numbers in them, and it's got hundreds and hundreds of 
entries, are available to any Member that wants to come by and ask for 
them. But we're not going to put those out to the press and cause a 
massive circus of contractors and media people swarming the committee 
when we're trying to get our job done. We have never done it like that.

But the disparaging way in which the gentleman talks about things 
that we put in, some of which are crucial to the survival of your 
constituents, the young men and women who joined the Marine Corps and 
the Army from your district, I think is misplaced.

The building of the defense budget is a very important thing. It's a 
thing that we do often in disagreement with the Pentagon. We have put 
in additional aircraft carriers when you had Presidents who didn't want 
to put them in because we thought they were important to the survival 
of this country, and we turned out to be right. We have increased end 
strength in the Army and Marine Corps. We have done most of the work on 
UAVs, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. That means you don't get pilots shot 
down. That means you're able to disperse many more platforms that can 
gather information.



The things that we put in the defense budget are generally done after 
a lot of thought, a lot of analysis and, generally speaking, they have 
been very good for our troops.