---
---

# RETIREMENT OF VICE ADMIRAL BARRY COSTELLO
## `79f1bb3a58d9033fd09530f45d7ce244`
`Mr. LEAHY — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, In the opening days of the war in Iraq in 
2003, before ground forces moved into the country, I received an e-mail 
at a particularly suitable moment. Just when I was about to step into a 
meeting with President Bush at the White House, in came a message from 
my friend and colleague, then two-star Rear Admiral Barry Costello.

Admiral Costello was in command of Cruiser-Destroyer Group One, based 
in the Persian Gulf. Its flotilla, including the aircraft carrier USS 
Constellation, was launching cruise missile and air strikes, while its 
contingent of over 7,000 marines waited to move into the country. Barry 
poignantly said, ''we are in the forefront--and are working hard to 
make America proud.''

I showed that note to the President. He and I disagreed on pretty 
much everything in the runup to the war, but at that moment we had a 
shared pride in Barry and the men and women under his command. The 
expertise, dedication, and sheer patriotism on display there in the 
gulf was beyond question. That moment crystallized the depth of 
gratitude that not only we elected leaders in Washington but also every 
Vermonter and American feel for our Armed Forces.

Barry Costello has recently retired from the Navy after a stellar 36-
year career. At every stage, before and after his command during the 
second Iraq war, professionalism and pure competence have been deeply 
etched in Barry's career. Whether in postings on the Joint Staff or on 
the USS Elliot, which he commanded, Barry has impressed those above and 
below him in the chain of command. His knowledge of the Navy--its 
organization, its mission, its capabilities is unrivaled.

That thoroughgoing command of his surroundings, that superb ability 
to contribute to the larger organization made him a natural to serve as 
a legislative liaison here in the Senate and Congress as a whole. 
Whenever I or any of my colleagues had a question about some program, 
however obscure, Barry could answer it or get us answer in pretty short 
order. He was a strong conduit in the other direction too, providing 
insights to the senior Navy and Department of Defense leadership about 
the concerns of Congress. In short, he was the perfect liaison.

It was fitting that Barry capped his career with command of the 
Navy's Third Fleet, based out in San Diego. One of the most powerful 
forces in our military's arsenal, the Third Fleet established itself 
with distinguished service under the legendary ADM William


F. ''Bull'' Halsey. Barry's leadership combines the steadfastness of 
Halsey and the eagle-eye vision of a Nimitz. At the Third Fleet, he 
showed himself a Navy officer's officer.

At 56, Barry still has ample contributions to make to our country, 
whether in industry or further public service. He has already served as 
an inspiration to the Navy and Vermont, and I have no doubt that he 
will continue make enormous strides on behalf of others in whatever 
endeavors he pursues.

I know I will run across Barry very soon, but I want to congratulate 
him, his loving wife LuAnne, and their two sons Brendan and Aiden. The 
Senate, Vermont, and the country join me in expressing our deep 
gratitude. Thank you.
