---
---

# None
## `79f798e4a244717d6030f0ffc8838408`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise in full support of House 
Resolution 78, which would grant a measure of symbolic participation 
for the Delegates in the Committee of the Whole.

Our chairman referred to General Blaz earlier. He was a distinguished 
Delegate representing Guam, and he was a member of the Republican 
Party. But the participation is neither Democrat nor Republican here; 
it is American.

Let me say a few words about my district, the island of Guam. Some 
would point out that Guam's population is small, with only about 
160,000 residents. I would point out that Guam has lost seven soldiers 
in the Iraq war, far more per capita than most communities other than 
maybe American Samoa. If our Nation had the same percentage of deaths 
in the Iraq war as Guam, the death toll would be more than three times 
the current toll. In other words, when it comes to joining the military 
and dying for our country, Americans from our island have more than 
contributed our share.

Some would say that Guam does not deserve this new level of 
participation. I would respond that you have not met the people of Guam 
who survived a brutal enemy occupation during World War II. You have 
not heard their stories of loyalty to our Nation. You have not learned 
of their confinement in concentration camps, of their being beaten and 
beheaded. You have not seen and felt their patriotism.

Our ability to participate in the Committee of the Whole would make 
these sacrifices all the more meaningful for us as Americans. It means, 
Madam Speaker, that my colleagues will recognize us for who we are, 
members, members of the American family.

Some would say that the test for our participation is our level of 
taxation. I say that you surely misunderstand the promise of America 
and the meaning of democracy. Democracy is founded on voting and 
participation. Would you teach this lesson to the Iraqis? Have we 
become this cynical as Americans that even symbolic participation is 
tested by the taxes that we pay? Is the greatest test the willingness 
to defend the Nation or the 1040s? Is the greatest sacrifice that made 
by our troops and their families or that made by our tax accountants?

If you would deny your fellow Americans, the people of Guam, this 
small bit of symbolic participation, the greater loss is our Nation's 
loss of its promise to the world of a democracy that is inclusive and 
that values all of its citizens. The loss is the ideal of American 
democracy, however imperfect. The loss is the recognition of a cynical 
Congress that wants to know how much taxes you have paid, not how much 
sacrifice that you have made for this great land. The loss, ladies and 
gentlemen, is not Guam or the territories or the District of Columbia. 
It is the Nation's.