# None
## `79fb0590b9e53e8655c0977f847bf92f`
`Mr. McCAIN â€” 3 October 2007`

---

 Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, the Defense Appropriations Act 
for Fiscal Year 2008 is one of the most important of the appropriations 
measures that we will consider this year. This legislation will provide 
critical funding for the men and women in our Armed Forces who, at this 
very moment, are in harm's way. Because we must continue to support 
them, I support the passage of this bill, but I have serious concerns 
over the earmarks contained in the committee report accompanying this 
bill.

The bill reported out of committee appropriates over $448 billion. 
This is more than $3.5 billion below the President's request and, 
notably, does not include any additional funds for ongoing operations 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. As is the case with so many of the 
appropriations bills that come to the floor, the report accompanying it 
contains numerous earmarks that were neither requested nor authorized, 
to the tune of over $5 billion. During a time of war, we should be 
making every effort to support the President's budget request instead 
of slashing it and then adding earmarks for favored projects.

Every day, we ask the brave men and women who fight for freedom on 
behalf of our great Nation, and their families, to make sacrifices. 
They sacrifice in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere throughout the 
globe. We in the Congress should exercise some degree of self-restraint 
and sacrifice, as well.

Let me mention a few of the add-ons that were included in the bill's 
accompanying report: $2 million for a project involving brown tree 
snakes; a total of $3 million for an electronic futures trading 
program; $2 million for research on high-pressure microwave processing 
for meals-ready-to-eat; $2 million for the Marines to buy boot socks 
cushioned with merino wool; $2 million to buy extended cold-weather 
gloves for the Army; $2 million for research on a technology that 
extracts pure water from the air; $2 million for research on a 
multispectral fingerprint device; $4 million to study the Northern 
Lights; $6.5 million for small instrument development for Magdalena 
Ridge Observatory; and $10 million for Eielson Utilidors.

Once again, there are also many earmarks that may be for worthy 
causes, but there is no compelling national defense reason for these 
items to be funded through this legislation. These earmarks include 
$150 million for a peer-reviewed breast cancer research program; $80 
million for a similar prostate cancer research program; $10 million for 
ovarian cancer research; $27.5 million for the Hawaii Federal Health 
Care Network; $10 million to a program called Ceros, for river and 
oceanic research; $6.1 million for research on a new engine called 
homopolar hybrid drive; $2 million for research into putting humans 
into a state similar to hibernation so they can be kept alive long 
enough for doctors to administer treatments; and $3 million for 
research for a 2D-3D face-recognition system.

As we are engaged fully in the global war on terror, it is imperative 
that we get the most out of each and every defense dollar. The money 
that is being diverted to projects like the ones I have mentioned could 
instead be used for body armor or other critical needs to protect our 
troops and help win the war on terror. The earmarks I have mentioned 
are just a small sampling of the many unrequested earmarks that fill 
the accompanying report. These earmarks are draining our precious 
resources and are not vital to our long-term national security. I 
strongly encourage the Federal agencies affected to use their judgement 
to ensure they are not allocating resources to projects that are not 
legislatively mandated or authorized but rather, are merely the wish 
lists of the committee.

In the report accompanying the bill, there are several authorizing 
provisions, which by their nature have no place in an appropriations 
vehicle, including language directing the Air Force to provide funding 
to continue the operation of the 36th Rescue Flight assigned to 
Fairchild AFB in Washington State and a provision requiring funding for 
Naval archeology programs in the Lake Champlain Basin.

Similarly, in the bill, a provision directs the Air Force to complete 
upgrades and additions to Alaskan range infrastructure and training 
areas, as well as at Hickman AFB in Hawaii. A similar provision calls 
for $3 million to be spent on upgrades and maintenance at the Pacific 
Missile Range Facility. Another provision prohibits the 
disestablishment of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron in 
Mississippi.

Some of these authorizing provisions are outside of the scope of 
defense policy, including language providing for the Navy to transfer 
up to $20 million


to the Interior Department for any expenses associated with the 
construction of the USS Arizona Memorial Museum and Visitors Center.

I would also like to discuss the ''Buy America'' restrictions that 
cost the Department of Defense and the American taxpayers. Like in 
previous appropriations bills, this year's bill imposes a number of 
''Buy America'' restrictions. For example, the bill would prevent the 
Defense Department's purchase of particular welded shipboard anchor and 
mooring chain; carbon alloy or armor steel plate; ball and roller 
bearings, unless they are manufactured in the United States. It would 
put similar restrictions on the Department's buying public vessels, 
food, certain textile materials, particular Navy supply ships, as well 
as its purchase of coal as a fuel source for certain military 
installations in Germany. Another ''Buy America'' provision prohibits 
the Department's buying any supercomputer that is not manufactured in 
the United States.

I continue to be very concerned about the potential impact on 
readiness of our restrictive trade policies with our allies. From a 
philosophical point of view, I oppose these types of policies as 
protectionist. I believe free trade is an important element in 
improving relations among all nations and essential to economic growth. 
From a practical standpoint, ''Buy America'' restrictions, such as 
those contained in this bill, could seriously impair our ability to 
compete freely in international markets and also could result in the 
loss of existing business from long-standing trade partners.

I have no doubt that some of these provisions may be important while 
others are questionable at best. What is important is that we follow 
the authorization process and restrain ourselves from using 
appropriations bills to authorize projects on this bill that have not 
been requested by the Department of Defense, nor approved by the 
authorizing committee.

Mr. President, there can be no doubt that this legislation is very 
important to the ultimate success of our ongoing war on terror. Yet I 
believe it is important to point out to the American taxpayer where 
some of their money is going and some of it is not going to projects 
that have anything to do with our defense.