# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR  FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `7a0b3a6cb52981fcf4d9681840840b64`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 
conference report and, in particular, in support of Section 327 of the 
report, which prohibits interrogation techniques not authorized by the 
Army Field Manual on Interrogation.

Despite White House claims that the United States does not torture 
prisoners, we continue to learn about administration actions that seem 
to condone the use of coercive techniques in questioning prisoners.

A few months ago, we learned about a classified Justice Department 
memo from February 2005 allowing waterboarding and other coercive 
techniques. Then there was the Executive Order signed in July of this 
year that effectively opened a loophole for the CIA to practice 
interrogation techniques that go beyond those allowed by the U.S. 
military.

Reports this week of destroyed interrogation tapes showing CIA 
operatives using waterboarding and other ''enhanced'' techniques are 
deeply disturbing, and suggest a double standard, whereby these 
techniques are approved for use by the CIA but not by the Department of 
Defense and its intelligence agencies. All this points to the need for 
a common standard for humane and effective interrogation techniques 
across the Government, which is what this conference report provision 
calls for.

Senator John McCain has called the Army Field Manual techniques 
''humane and yet effective,'' and has argued for a policy by which ''we 
will never allow torture to take place in the United States of 
America.'' In May 2007, General Petraeus wrote to U.S. troops serving 
in Iraq that ''our experience in applying the interrogation standards 
laid out in the Army Field Manual . . . published last year shows that 
the techniques in the manual work effectively and humanely in eliciting 
information from detainees.''

There is no reason why interrogation techniques that work effectively 
and humanely for our military interrogators cannot also work 
effectively and humanely for CIA and other intelligence agency 
interrogators. Section 327 of the Intelligence Authorization report 
sends a message that the United States believes no part of its 
government is above the law, and that no interrogation method is 
acceptable that could not also be used on Americans in enemy custody.

I strongly urge passage of this important legislation.