---
---

# IMPROVING HEAD START ACT OF 2007
## `7a158c7dc96241f68b49f45e35d10662`
`Mr. PRICE of Georgia — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from 
Delaware for allowing me to come and chat on a little different topic, 
a topic that we tried to bring to the floor today on this bill, and a 
topic that I think would truly expand and protect children in the Head 
Start program, but a topic that wasn't allowed to be brought to the 
floor because an amendment wasn't allowed. I think this issue truly 
demonstrates where the priorities of the majority party are.

This issue that I attempted to bring to the floor would have resulted 
in significantly greater safety for the children who are transported in 
Head Start programs.

In 1992, Mr. Chairman, Congress required the issuance of regulations 
that related to rear-door emergency exits and safety restraints on Head 
Start transportation. That was in 1992. Since the final rule for these 
new regulations was published, the effective date has been delayed 
three times.

Last week, buried deep in H.R. 1591, the emergency supplemental for 
Iraq, was language that delays these transportation safety requirements 
for Head Start programs once again. The fine print reveals that the 
rear emergency exit requirements are delayed for another year, and a 
seat belt safety requirement is delayed until another study is done.

Well, Congress required these regulations to ensure the safe 
operation of vehicles by Head Start agencies; and currently, the 
leading cause of death for children ages 3 to 7 is motor vehicle, 
traffic crashes. The reason why these transportation requirements were 
put forth is that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
does not approve of the use of vans or cars or vehicles of other types 
for the purpose of providing planned transportation services. School 
buses are the safest form of transportation because they include many 
special features. Further delaying these requirements means authorizing 
that Head Start grantees can transport children using vehicles that are 
not designed specifically for the purpose of the safe transportation of 
children.

My amendment, which wasn't allowed, would have ended this delay and 
make the regulations for emergency rear-door exits and seat belts on 
vehicles used to transport children effective immediately.

Mr. Chairman, as you know, on the first day of this Congress, 
children were paraded in front of the American people, and the new 
majority claimed that the House would come to order for the children. 
Well, today, if it is truly about the children, then the majority would 
have allowed this amendment to be entertained. Any further delays 
endangers lives of children.

So I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that the hypocrisy of this process is 
telling, and that if we truly are interested in making certain that our 
greatest resource, our children, the future of our Nation, are 
protected, then we would have allowed this amendment, and I am 
distressed it wasn't allowed. I encourage through the process the 
majority party make certain that we address this as this bill moves 
forward.