# SERVICE MEMBERS HOME OWNERSHIP TAX ACT OF 2009
## `7a296205717f28fd925ed5c11b723e71`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 7 October 2009`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Thank you, my friend, Mr. Blumenauer. I stand before 
you to discuss H.R. 3590, the Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act of 
2009. I want to congratulate Mr. Rangel, Mr. Camp, Mr. Blumenauer. This 
body stands tallest when we work together for our servicemembers. It 
really reflects the dignity of this body.

And I say this emphatically, that Mr. Rangel and Mr. Camp are always 
there, not only because they have a deep affection for their country, 
but because they have a deep connection with our service folks who 
defend us every day. This is the least we can do.

This legislation would extend the first-time homebuyer credit, the 
time limit by 1 year, for our military members serving outside the 
United States in 2009. The extension would allow servicemembers 
currently serving overseas to take advantage of an important tax credit 
offered to all citizens by the Recovery Act.

Our legislation would protect servicemembers from having to repay the 
credit if they are called up for service overseas and forced to sell 
their home within 3 years of purchasing.

Think of this, Mr. Speaker: this bill comes at a time when our 
servicemembers are challenged with the dual strain of war and economic 
strife. Taking care of the responsibilities in Iraq and Afghanistan and 
trying to take care of familial needs--just imagine, just imagine that 
stress.

The first-time homebuyer credit has already provided tax benefits to 
a million and a half families. Congress should do everything we can to 
ensure our servicemembers are also able to take full advantage of the 
programs we enact to benefit all Americans. And they need to know about 
it. We have an obligation to communicate to our service folks and our 
veterans what is available out there, because I think in the past 8 
years we have surpassed in attempting to reach out to them so that they 
know what their benefits are.

I hope this bill sees swift passage in the House and the Senate. It's 
the right thing to do, Mr. Speaker.