---
---

# SERGEANT CHRISTOPHER R. HRBEK POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `7a40ad19115b6f4974eb69357d21f7c2`
`Mr. LYNCH — 15 March 2010`

---


Mr. LYNCH. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, as chairman of the House subcommittee with 
jurisdiction over the United States Postal Service, I am proud to 
present H.R. 4628 for consideration. This legislation, when passed, 
will designate the United States Postal Service facility located at 216 
Westwood Avenue in Westwood, New Jersey, as the Sergeant Christopher R. 
Hrbek Post Office Building. Introduced by my friend and colleague 
Representative Scott Garrett of New Jersey on February 22, 2009, H.R. 
4628 was favorably reported out of the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee on March 4, 2010, by unanimous consent. In addition, this 
legislation enjoys the support of the entire New Jersey House 
delegation.

A native of Westwood, New Jersey, Sergeant Christopher Hrbek proudly 
served our Nation as a field artillery cannoneer with the Third 
Battalion, 10th Marine Regiment, Second Marine Division, Second Marine 
Expeditionary Force out of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Regrettably, 
Sergeant Hrbek was killed in action on January 14, 2010, by an 
improvised explosive device while supporting combat operations in 
Helmand province, Afghanistan. Sergeant Hrbek was 25 years old at the 
time of his death and on his fourth tour of duty with the United States 
Marine Corps.

As recalled by his family and friends, Sergeant Hrbek's enlistment in 
the United States Marine Corps evidenced his lifelong dedication to 
serving his community and his country.

At the age of 16, Sergeant Hrbek, who came from a family of 
firefighters, joined the Westwood Fire Department as a cadet and 
continued to serve his local community as a firefighter for the next 9 
years. In addition to his dedication to the Westwood Fire Department 
and the town of Westwood, Sergeant Hrbek also aspired to serve in the 
United States military, and in particular, the United States Marine 
Corps. As noted by his loving stepfather Jaymee Hodges, Sergeant Hrbek 
''knew in his soul he wanted to be
a Marine . . . and Christopher ate, drank, and slept the Marine 
Corps.''



Accordingly, on his 18th birthday, Sergeant Hrbek asked his 
stepfather to take him to the Marine recruitment office in Hackensack, 
New Jersey, in order to enlist in the Marine Corps. Shortly thereafter, 
Sergeant Hrbek left for basic training at Paris Island, South Carolina. 
Sergeant Hrbek's subsequent and distinguished career in the United 
States Marine Corps included four tours of duty, three tours of duty in 
Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, and then most recently, his 
last tour of duty in Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom. In recognition of his service and sacrifice on behalf of our 
grateful Nation, Sergeant Hrbek has been posthumously awarded the 
Purple Heart.

Additionally, Sergeant Hrbek has also posthumously received the 
Bronze Star with Valor device. This was awarded for his heroic service 
during combat operations several weeks before his death. Specifically, 
in December of 2009, in the midst of hostile gunfire, Sergeant Hrbek 
rushed to save the life of a fellow marine, Sergeant Major Raymond 
Mackey, who had lost his legs as a result of an improvised explosive 
device attack. Sergeant Hrbek and a Navy corpsman carried Sergeant 
Major Mackey to safety and quickly applied tourniquets in order to stop 
the bleeding. This past Christmas Eve, Sergeant Hrbek was informed that 
he had been nominated for the Bronze Star with Valor device in 
recognition of that heroism.

In addition to the distinction and honor with which he served in the 
United States military, Sergeant Hrbek will be equally remembered for 
his steadfast devotion to his family and his friends. As noted by 
Westwood Fire Chief Mark Fedorchak, Sergeant Hrbek would do anything 
for anybody. He will be sorely missed. It is a huge loss for our 
community.

While Sergeant Hrbek is no longer with us, his memory will continue 
to live on through his devoted family and friends, his loving community 
and the dedicated servicemen and women who were fortunate to serve with 
him.

Madam Speaker, the life of Sergeant Christopher R. Hrbek stands as a 
testament to all the brave servicemen and women who have offered the 
ultimate sacrifice in defense of our Nation.

Let us join with Congressman Garrett from New Jersey and honor this 
outstanding soldier and American hero through the passage of this 
legislation to designate the Westwood Post Office in his name. I urge 
my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 4628.

I reserve the balance of our time.