---
---

# MOST AMERICANS SAY WAR IN AFGHANISTAN IS NOT WORTH FIGHTING
## `7a4ee7cfdc71c6677205547af7cb5e0d`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 8 September 2009`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to express my deep concern about 
the recent developments in Afghanistan. Sadly, 51 American troops were 
killed in August, making it the deadliest month for the United States 
since the conflict began 8 years ago.

August also was the deadliest month of the war for the combined 
coalition force. Many innocent civilians were tragically killed in the 
air strikes during the month of August, and there is growing evidence 
that the recent elections may have been marred by fraud.

Madam Speaker, for over 8 years we have relied almost exclusively on 
the military to stop violent extremism in Afghanistan. But these recent 
events show that this strategy isn't giving us a victory on the ground 
or political solutions to the problem. The American people are 
beginning to recognize that relying on the military option alone isn't 
the best way to go.

The latest Washington Post-ABC poll shows that 45 percent of the 
American people want to reduce our forces in Afghanistan, while only 24 
percent want to increase our forces. This latest poll from the 
McClatchy Newspapers came up with similar results.



It is clearly time, Madam Speaker, to develop a new strategy and a 
new mission for America in Afghanistan. We must begin to use all of the 
tools of ''smart power.''

Smart power means improving police and intelligence work in the 
communities where extremists hide. Well-trained Afghan policemen, who 
are familiar with local people, with customs and conditions, can often 
do the best job of hunting down extremists. Smart power also includes 
regional diplomatic efforts, education, better governance, and a 
civilian surge of experts and workers to support economic development 
in Afghanistan. These are the things that will give the Afghan people 
real hope for their future and eliminate the root causes of violent 
extremism.

As National Security Advisor James L. Jones has said, This war will 
not be won by the military alone. We tried that for years. The piece of 
our strategy that has to work in the next year is economic development. 
If that is not done right, there are not enough troops in the world to 
succeed.

I know that President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton agree that 
improving the lives of the Afghan people is the key to victory. They 
have pledged to do everything they can to help rebuild Afghanistan and 
show the Afghan people that we offer them a better future than the 
Taliban.

Madam Speaker, I and other Members of the House who oppose our 
occupation of Iraq watched for years as Congress did nothing to prevent 
that disaster. But we still have time to get it right when it comes to 
Afghanistan. This time, let's use smart power. It will save lives, save 
money, and make our country safer.
