---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `7a540348694841aab8f697a0d3028b01`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 4 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we have before us--last week and this 
week--two measures that are overwhelmingly bipartisan. We have a FISA 
proposal--Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act proposal--we tried 
repeatedly last week to get some votes on, and to no avail. That came 
out of the Intelligence Committee 13 to 2--the Rockefeller-Bond bill--
overwhelmingly bipartisan, which would be signed by the President. That 
would be a significant accomplishment on a very important issue to the 
American people.

With regard to the stimulus, the American people witnessed something 
they rarely see. They saw the Speaker of the House--a Democrat--the 
leader of the House Republicans, and the Secretary of the Treasury have 
a joint press conference among the three of them, indicating they had 
an agreement on a stimulus package that we could pass rapidly.

Senate Republicans have been prepared to do that. It came over to us 
January 29. The majority leader felt that the Senate Finance Committee 
needed to reconvene and do it a different way.

This was a situation where you had the Democratic leader of the 
House, the Republican leader of the House, the Republican leader of the 
Senate, and the President of the United States all on the same side. 
That is pretty close to bipartisan. But, no, my good friend, the 
majority leader, said the Senate needed to do it differently, in spite 
of the fact that everyone was saying the two most important things to 
do with regard to a stimulus package were to keep it targeted and do it 
quickly. We had an opportunity to do that. We may have an opportunity 
to do it again. But make no mistake about it, no amount of finger-
pointing or no suggesting that just because you file cloture motions, 
that amounts to a filibuster. Nobody believes that. You can't just run 
around routinely filing cloture motions on everything and then claim 
there are filibusters going on.


In fact, the message from the last session was: When you meet in the 
middle, you get things done. It finally happened in December: an 
omnibus spending package that met the President's top line, $70 billion 
for Iraq and Afghanistan without strings attached, an AMT without 
raising taxes on anybody else, and an energy bill that neither raised 
taxes nor raised rates in the Southeast. All of that was accomplished 
at the end by meeting in the middle.

Now, in spite of all of this back-and-forth between my good friend, 
the majority leader, and myself, we are pretty close on these two 
issues as well. The American people are expecting us to cooperate. But 
I repeat: We are going to read the proposal which we got some 15 
minutes ago. I don't think anybody in America would think that is an 
unreasonable request. When we get through reading the new stimulus 
proposal, which I was told we would get last Thursday night, we will 
respond to my good friend, the majority leader, and we will see how we 
can go forward to accomplish two important things for the country. In 
the end, they will be done and must be done on an overwhelmingly 
bipartisan basis.

I yield the floor.