---
---

# None
## `7a5a3e74c6442eade1ff04ad74312adc`
`Mr. INSLEE — 1 April 2008`

---


Mr. INSLEE. Coming back, it is not just cost, it is capability. 
Bigger is not always better, and I am very concerned here that the Air 
Force has been lulled into the sense that bigger is always going to be 
better.

Frankly, when I found out that the Boeing tanker can serve in twice 
as many airfields, it can refuel the V-22, which is our tilt rotor 
aircraft, this aircraft they have can't refuel one of our aircraft, we 
are going with a company that has no boom experience, they have never 
built an airplane commercially with a boom.

We have decided to reject a company, Boeing, that delivered a 767 to 
Japan, one February 19, 2008, a second one March 5, 2008, they are 
flying, they are in the air, they are a known quantity. And we are 
taking this risk, an uncertain risk, just for this apparent decision 
that all of a sudden bigger became better, which is very interesting, 
because Boeing could have competed a larger airplane, an airframe of 
the Boeing 777, and didn't, essentially because they understood that 
this was a satisfactory size component to deliver.

It made sense when Boeing made that decision and when Air Force led 
them to that decision, because when you look at the loading, the range 
of loading and what it has done historically, the Boeing 767 is a 
perfect fit. If you look at the offloading potential, the Boeing 767 is 
significantly greater than the average offloading in any of either the 
Vietnam, the Iraqi Freedom or the Southwest Asia conflicts.

So we are concerned that this decision of this deciding bigger was 
better was, A, not fair to a bidder, Boeing, which was not told that 
that apparently was now the Air Force's brand new criteria; B, exposes 
American taxpayers to greater risk with an uncertain contractor, with 
an uncertain plan in multiple locations; C, causes significant loss of 
jobs; and, D, violates international law, or at least awards folks who 
are receiving illegal subsidies violating international law.

This is not a good thing for the American warfighter, the American 
taxpayer or the American worker, and that is why we are here tonight 
suggesting that this contract has to be redone one way or another, and 
we are going to be talking about ways to do that.

