# HONORING SENATOR TRENT LOTT
## `7a5c34321a0c7f55962f161df31a6f44`
`Mr. CORKER — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to a 
distinguished colleague from the great State of Mississippi, Senator 
Trent Lott.

As a reformer, a defender and a leader, Trent Lott leaves behind a 
legacy in the U.S. Senate, the fruits of which we will reap for years 
to come. In 1996, Trent joined with colleagues to enact an historic 
welfare reform bill. He pushed for reform again when he supported 
President Bush's tax cut package early on in the administration. Trent 
has never been afraid to step forward in faith toward what he knows is 
right.

A champion for a strong national defense, Trent supported the 
President's military action in Iraq as well as increased defense 
spending. As a defender himself, Trent understands the importance of a 
strong military and the value of rewarding those who valiantly serve 
this country. In 1998, he urged Congress to raise the pay for our 
military men and women, an act that hadn't occurred in a decade.

As the first man to serve as the whip in both the House and the 
Senate, Trent could not have accomplished


any of the aforementioned achievements and many others without his 
innate ability to lead. Leadership is not easy. The weight of good 
leadership is often a difficult load to bear, but Trent Lott upheld his 
roles as senator, majority leader and whip with an admirable level of 
dignity and integrity throughout his tenure.

As a new Senator, I have been touched by Trent's candor, patience, 
unique charm, and by observing the tremendous relationship he has with 
his wife Tricia. Professionally, I have benefited greatly from his 
knowledge and experience about how to effectively make a difference in 
the U.S. Senate. He is a gifted negotiator, and his strong leadership 
will be greatly missed. For more than three decades, Senator Lott has 
been a great public servant to the people of Mississippi in Congress. I 
extend my best wishes to Trent and Tricia as they begin the next phase 
of their lives together.