# AFGHANISTAN
## `7a5d75fb0982926904bcf3639ed136c9`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Well, the one thing I can tell you is Admiral Mullen is 
going to be reappointed with probably every person in this body voting 
for him because he has gained our trust, and it speaks well of the 
President that he would renominate him. So he has obviously gained the 
President's trust.

I am not a military commander. But I do not have to be much of a 
military expert to understand his testimony. His testimony was pretty 
clear: We have lost momentum. The Taliban is reemerging, stronger than 
ever, and the capability of the coalition forces and the Afghan Army 
and security forces combined cannot reverse the momentum. Something new 
has to happen.

When we put on the table training the Afghan Army without additional 
combat power, how long would it take before they could have enough 
numbers to change things? Two or three years.

What would happen during that training period? It would deteriorate 
further.

What did he tell us? The pathway forward is that we have a new 
strategy, it needs to be properly resourced. I think what he was 
telling us more than anything else is that time is not on our side. 
Casualties in July and August were at an all-time high. We have 68,000 
people wearing our uniform in Afghanistan who are getting killed in 
larger numbers than ever, and the dynamic on the ground will not change 
the momentum. To do nothing puts them in an environment where they are 
going to get killed in higher numbers, and what Admiral Mullen is 
telling us, and I hope the President will listen, is that time is not 
on our side, but, more importantly, it is not on their side.


This decision about troops, to me, is pretty easy. We need more, but 
troops alone will not fix Afghanistan. But without more troops in a 
hurry and with a sense of urgency, we are going to let the Taliban get 
stronger, the Afghan people are going to get weaker in their resolve, 
and more Americans are going to die than if we had more troops.

That is what I got out of the hearing. I hope the President is 
listening.