---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE VETERANS
## `7a6d9e6d8acc7b40b7644971be8f2cba`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as the chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and 
Maritime Transportation, I am honored to take this opportunity afforded 
by National Maritime Day to pay tribute to our Nation's merchant 
mariners and to the entire maritime industry.

I also honor the tireless work of the men and women of the United 
States Coast Guard, who ensure the safety and security of our Nation's 
ports, who protect our economic interests in the maritime environment 
around the world and who, every year, save the lives of thousands of 
mariners in distress.

In 1933, the United States first honored our merchant mariners 
through the designation of May 22 as National Maritime Day. Seventy-
four years later, we again pause to honor the service and sacrifices of 
our merchant mariners by considering H. Res. 413, offered by my 
distinguished colleague, Congressman Bob Filner, the chairman of the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

H. Res. 413 pays special tribute to the estimated 250,000 Americans 
who served in the War Shipping Administration, moving 95 percent of the 
goods and materiel used by the allies used during World War II.

The Congressional Research Service report said more than 50 percent 
of those who served in the Merchant Marine in World War II were under 
the age of 25, and some 20,000 of these men were killed or wounded in 
the war, yielding among the Merchant Marine the highest casualty rate 
of any service, according to the U.S. Maritime Service Veterans.

Despite their gallant service, World War II-era U.S. merchant 
mariners have still not received many of the benefits given to those 
who served in the other U.S. military forces engaged in World War II. 
U.S. merchant mariners have still never been made eligible for the GI 
Bill or for the housing, educational or unemployment benefits that the 
bill provided for other U.S. veterans.

Not until 1988 were World War II-era merchant mariners made eligible 
for services from the Veterans Administration. Not until 1998 were they 
made eligible for burial and cemetery benefits. While these are 
important benefits long overdue to World War II-era merchant mariners, 
many of these mariners were no longer with us when these benefits were 
extended. Even fewer of the World War II-era mariners are with us 
today. For many, therefore, any benefits granted now come too late.

Further, even for those who are still with us, it is too late to give 
them the opportunities that they might have had, had they been eligible 
for the benefits of the GI Bill at the conclusion of their service.

I urge my colleagues to take this opportunity to honor all of those 
who served in our Nation's Merchant Marine during World War II, and I 
hope that the experience of these mariners will be a lesson to ensure 
that we never, never again deny any veteran who has served the United 
States any of the benefits he or she has earned.

As I close, I also honor the vital role that our merchant mariners 
continue to play in responding to our Nation's emergencies. Most 
recently, the U.S. merchant mariners help evacuate an estimated 160,000 
people from Manhattan on September 11, 2001, and provided aid and 
emergency assistance along the gulf coast to the victims of Hurricane 
Katrina and Hurricane Rita.

Merchant mariners also continue to provide the sealift capacity that 
keeps our Armed Forces equipped to fight the global war on terrorism. 
More than 8,000 merchant mariners serve in the Military Sealift 
Command, and the Seafarers International Union has written that 
civilian crews and military support ships have moved some 79 million 
square feet of cargo to United States troops in Iraq and throughout the 
world since 9/11. Without these highly trained men and women, we will 
likely be unable to equip our Armed Forces with the supplies they need 
to defend our Nation.

I honor all of the members, past and present, of the United States 
Merchant Marine. I urge the passage of H.R. 413 and again commend my 
colleague, Congressman Filner, for his tireless efforts on behalf of 
our World War II-era merchant mariners.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.