# MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES ON H.R. 2194, IRAN REFINED PETROLEUM  SANCTIONS ACT OF 2009
## `7a70afe9587b4587ae795057b505c467`
`Ms. HARMAN — 22 April 2010`

---


Ms. HARMAN. I thank my California colleague for yielding to me, and I 
commend him for his leadership on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, in the course of my service on virtually all of the 
security-related committees in this House, I have visited some of the 
most dangerous and austere places on the planet--rugged, remote areas 
that provide sanctuary to the most ruthless and cunning terrorists. As 
a result, I am often asked to name those countries which I think pose 
the greatest threat to the security of our country and to the world. 
Iraq? Pakistan? Afghanistan? Yemen?

My answer every time is: Iran, Iran, Iran.

Given the zeal with which it promotes and supports instability in the 
Middle East, given its myopic obsession with the destruction of Israel, 
its arming of and financial assistance to Hezbollah and Hamas, and its 
implacable, duplicitous march towards a nuclear weapons capability, in 
my view, no other country comes close.

The question that confronts us is how to cause Iran's government to 
abandon interest in a nuclear weapons program.

Most agree--certainly, I do--that a multilateral approach is most 
likely to succeed. Our efforts with the EU, led by the indomitable 
Stuart Levey, have been effective, but they haven't yet changed Iran's 
course.

Our country must continue its leadership role. Our efforts at 
diplomacy and at unilateral sanctions must drive stronger multilateral 
diplomacy and sanctions. That is why Congress must move to conference 
on Iran sanctions legislation and why it must enact by an overwhelming 
bipartisan vote the strongest package. That package should include 
divestments, and it should expand sanctions on individuals, 
institutions, as well as on nongovernmental entities, and it must 
cripple Iran's ability to import refined petroleum products.

Let me be clear, Mr. Speaker. Our problem is not with the Iranian 
people but with its government's reckless policies. Iran with nuclear 
weapons not only poses an existential threat to Israel; it poses an 
existential threat to us and to countries everywhere which espouse 
Democratic values.