---
---

# None
## `7a721905f6caae572046ee478769396c`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the 
House once again. I am glad to be here with my good friend Mr. Altmire.

As you know the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor 
weekly, talk about issues that are facing the Nation, and also give a 
report on


what's happening and what's not happening. We are hoping to do good 
things on behalf of the American people, and we hope that we can build 
a relationship with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the 
Republican side of the aisle, to help pass the American agenda.

Mr. Altmire and I usually have some opening comments, and then we 
usually get into a conversation about some of the issues that we are 
facing this week, about some of the ongoing issues.

Over the weekend, I took the opportunity, because Mr. Altmire, Mr. 
Ryan, Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Murphy, who are part of the 30-
something Working Group, we do meet, and we talk about issues that we 
want to bring before the Members.

I can tell you there are 47 major measures that have passed this 
floor with a bipartisan vote of 79 percent, so that means that 75 
percent of the issues that have passed this floor have had bipartisan 
support.

I see that we have one of our charts here to show, under the 
Democratic Congress, that Republicans all along, we were saying in the 
109th, 108th Congress, some of them really wanted to vote for the 
priorities of America and move this in a new direction.

But obviously the Republican leadership in the 109th, 108th, going 
back even further, did not want to bring those issues to the floor. But 
when they were brought to the floor, the 9/11 Commission 
Recommendations, H.R. 1, passed with 299 votes with 68 Republicans 
voting affirmative; raising the minimum wage, H.R. 2, again, passed 
315, passed with 315 votes here with 82 Republicans voting along with 
Democrats.

The funding to enhance stem cell research, H.R. 3, 257 and 37 
Republicans; making prescription drugs more affordable, H.R. 4, 24 
Republicans joined the majority of Democrats, passing that measure by 
255; cutting student loan interest rates in half, H.R. 5, 356 votes in 
favor, passed the House with 124 Republicans joining the Democratic 
leadership on that vote.



And creating long-term energy initiatives, H.R. 6, 264, with 36 
Republicans.

And Mr. Speaker, I think it's also important to be able to outline 
the fact that we want to move in a new direction. And so far, the 
President has signed the following: The first increase in the minimum 
wage in almost a decade, which will take effect on July 24 of this 
year. This is not fiction; it's fact. And it will be fully phased in. 
It will mean a raise of $4,400.

And also, we passed tax incentives to be able to help small 
businesses; $3.7 billion in additional emergency funding for veteran 
and military health care. This is $3.4 billion in additional funds for 
military readiness also, including armored vehicles and also to meet 
the National Guard shortfalls that they have been experiencing over 
some time.

Emergency funding to keep hundreds and thousands of children in 11 
States from losing their health care. That's very significant.

Overdue funding to repair and complete flood areas of Louisiana and 
Mississippi, and also, assisting other gulf coast communities, schools 
and universities to rebuild and recover from Hurricane Katrina Rita and 
also Wilma.

Overdue disaster aid to American families and ranchers, more than 80 
percent of the funding that they were looking for they were able to 
receive through this Democratic Congress.

Emergency wildfire funding, to be able to assist communities that 
have been waiting on Federal response, and also benchmarks for the 
Iraqi government and requiring the President to report the progress of 
the war to the Congress more than two times.

I think it's important to also state the many of the things that 
we've done here in the House, Mr. Speaker, without needing Presidential 
approval. We restored pay-as-you-go budget discipline for the first 
time in 6 years in Washington and received praise from major fiscal 
watchdog groups.

Also, passed a budget balanced by 2010 with no more deficit spending 
and no taxes after 2 years of Republican leadership failure to agree on 
a budget.

I think it's also important that we outline that we've imposed very 
strict ethics rules in the history of the House; also guaranteed that 
the House will operate as a green Capitol. I'm glad we have the chair 
of the Appropriations Committee that deals with the House, House 
Administration with us, the chairwoman.

Also, the Speaker has convened a National Summit on America's 
Children, and we're beginning to link Federal policy and law and 
cutting-edge research as relates to bring development; and also 
restored Congressional oversight, saving tens of millions of dollars 
that are being wasted here.

I think it's important that we also outline that stem cell research 
bill, supported by two out of three Americans, which offers hope for 
many, many families, is sitting on the President's desk right now 
waiting for action, Mr. Speaker.

And also, a bill ending the politicizing of the appointments of U.S. 
attorneys.

I can go on and on, but I think, as it relates to an opening, I think 
we're off to a great start, Mr. Speaker. And I think it's also 
important for the Members to realize that, for us to not only end the 
war in Iraq, but for us to be able to fulfill the dreams and the needs 
of the American people and those that are in harm's way, that we have 
to move in a bipartisan way. And when we can't move in a bipartisan 
way, then we have to take the majority of this Democratic majority that 
we have now to be able to get 218 votes to be able to carry out the 
will of the people.

Later on, since Ms. Wasserman Schultz has joined us, and I know Mr. 
Altmire has something to add, too, I want to talk a little bit about 
the President's address, the President's radio address, because I think 
it's important that we address these issues as they come up. We should 
not allow any statement or any speech to go unchallenged because I 
think the American people, it's time for them to be leveled with. And I 
can't wait until this thing rolls around again, when we get into open 
discussion, because this is the good part about the 30-Something 
Working Group is that we do get an opportunity to kind of volley the 
ball around.

Mr. Altmire, Happy Father's Day, belated Father's day, sir.