# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008-- MOTION TO PROCEED
## `7a74ac2e74d7da6c20270e36c7fdb513`
`Mr. SALAZAR â€” 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come here at 7:30 p.m. eastern time one 
more time to implore my colleagues, when we get to the cloture motion 
tomorrow on the 2007 farm bill, that we vote yes on that cloture 
motion. I fear if we do not move forward with that cloture motion on 
the farm bill tomorrow, there is a great possibility that the farm bill 
is, in fact, dead.

So many people have worked on this farm bill for such a long time--
Senator Harkin, who has led the effort as chairman of the committee; 
Senator Chambliss, who has worked on this now for 3 years; Senator 
Baucus, who led the efforts in the Finance Committee with Senator 
Grassley to provide a very robust package that is very important for 
the future of America. It is important that we move forward and we 
bring this matter to a close. The only way we are going to do that is 
if we get cloture tomorrow where people voted yes.

When we do that, what that will then set up is a postcloture 
timeframe where germane amendments can then be considered to the farm 
bill, and we can move forward through an orderly process to bring the 
farm bill to a just conclusion.

For me, what is at stake, when I think about the farmers and ranchers 
in the San Luis Valley, across the eastern plains of Colorado and Weld 
County and Adams County and across the western slope, is the future of 
family farmers and family ranchers, many of whom work much harder than 
anybody in Washington, DC, or in America; for those farmers and 
ranchers know the day does not end at 5 or 6 o'clock in the 
evening. For most farmers and ranchers, their day ends at 10, 11, 12 
o'clock at night. Their day begins long before people go to work here 
in Washington, DC. Their day begins at 4 and 5 in the morning when they 
get up to tend to the cows or when they get up to make sure they are 
baling their alfalfa, with dew still on the leaves of their alfalfa so 
that they have a quality product at the end of the day. Those are the 
men and women who really are the salt of the earth of America.


Those are the men and women, when you shake their hands, you know 
they are the hands of working men and women because you feel the 
calluses and the cuts. These are the men and women who, after they have 
worked for an entire year, wonder whether they are going to have enough 
money to pay off their operating line at the bank. These are the men 
and women who know the weather better than anybody here in Washington, 
DC, will ever know the weather and will be able to understand the 
seasons and the days better than most people who stand here on this 
floor and debate about the issues of the farm policy because these are 
the men and women who know, when they see a cloud of a certain color 
coming in their direction, that there is a hailstorm on the way, and 
they wonder whether or not that hailstorm is going to hit their field 
or their neighbor's field. They wonder whether they are going to be 
able to have enough at the end of the day to pay their operating 
expenses or their mortgage at the bank.

So it is the farmers and ranchers of rural America in all our States, 
Democratic States and Republican States--South Dakota, the State of my 
good friend who served with us on the Agriculture Committee and has 
contributed mightily to the content of this bill. It is all of those 
men and women in farm country whom we owe this to, to move forward with 
a process that brings about a conclusion to this farm bill, that sets 
an orderly process for us to consider amendments, both Republican and 
Democratic amendments, so that we can bring this legislation to a 
close.

For me, it is personal because I know many of these people. Many of 
these people are my family. I spent a lot of my own time as an 
irrigator on a farm, on a Heston windrower, on John Deere tractors and 
John Deere balers. I spent


a lot of time on a horse. So I know what the life of a farmer and a 
rancher is all about. But this legislation on the farm bill, Mr. 
President, is much more to America than just about these farmers and 
ranchers. Yes, it is important to stand up for them and for them to 
have champions here on the floor of the Senate, both on the Democratic 
side as well as on the Republican side. That is why it should not be 
even close as an issue in terms of us getting to a 60-vote margin 
tomorrow. It ought to be done easily because we ought to be champions 
for these people.

But it is more than about the farmers and ranchers in America. It is 
about a lot of other things. It is about making sure we embrace the 
clean energy economy of the 21st century. Nowhere in America is there 
more excitement and enthusiasm than there is in rural America today 
about how rural America will help us pioneer our way to energy 
independence the same as with Brazil, a Third World country, through a 
20-year dedication to the cause of energy independence, to become 
energy independent. There is no reason why we in America cannot do the 
same thing if we put our minds to it and we have the courage to put the 
right policies in place. And rural America will play a very significant 
role in creating that energy independence.

This legislation we have brought to the floor of the Senate from both 
committees, the Finance Committee as well as from the Agriculture 
Committee, makes a very significant step in the right direction of 
getting us off the addiction of foreign oil and opening a new 
opportunity for energy security for America. When I look at the issue 
of energy, yes, we will be debating and be having votes on the issue of 
Iraq tomorrow, but part of why we are involved in these issues in the 
Middle East is because of the fact that oil has been a driver in our 
foreign policy. We ought not to let that ever happen again in America. 
We ought not to let oil be a driver in our foreign policy.

So as we embrace this ethic of a clean energy economy for the 21st 
century, that is part of what is at the heart of the farm bill in title 
IX. As we look at dealing with the environmental security of our globe, 
of this planet, that also is at the heart of this legislation. When we 
look at creating a new economic opportunity, a new tomorrow for rural 
America, that is also in this legislation.

But it goes beyond energy. It also deals with nutrition. We need to 
keep reminding the people who are critical of this farm bill that they 
are wrong because they are aiming at the wrong parts. They aim at the 
14 percent of the bill that creates the support, the safety net for 
farmers and ranchers who are out there in the fields, but we have to 
recognize that it is almost 67 percent of the money that is set forth 
in this bill that goes into all the nutrition programs. Those nutrition 
programs help our children make sure they have the food in their 
stomachs to be able to learn while they are in school. Those nutrition 
programs are the ones that help the most vulnerable here in America.

It goes beyond nutrition. It also deals with the issue of 
conservation and how we take care of our land and water. This bill is a 
very important step and makes a very important statement in making sure 
we help take care of the crown jewels of America with the best stewards 
of our land and water.

So if you are a champion of the farmers and ranchers of this country, 
you are going to vote yes on cloture on this bill tomorrow. If you are 
a champion for the new clean energy economy, you are going to vote yes 
on this cloture motion tomorrow. If you are a champion of taking care 
of those who are most in need, the most vulnerable in America in our 
nutrition programs, you are going to vote yes on this cloture motion 
tomorrow. If you are a champion and a fighter in protecting our land 
and water, then you will vote yes on this cloture motion tomorrow. 
Because it is only by getting to yes on this cloture motion tomorrow, 
with 60 votes, that we can then create the orderly process that can 
have us consider amendments that will improve this farm bill and get it 
across the finish line and then moving forward with the rest of the 
process to get it to the President's desk for signature.

Mr. President, tonight, I urge my colleagues to think about their 
vote tomorrow, and I ask them to vote yes on this very important motion 
that will come before us.
