# None
## `7a760783e2723218370c7573bc0d9e0c`
`Mrs. CHRISTENSEN — 5 May 2008`

---


Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3658, to 
amend the Foreign Service Act of 1980 to permit rest and recuperation 
travel to United States territories for members of the Foreign Service, 
sponsored by my good friend and neighbor, Mr. Fortuno of Puerto Rico.

Mr. Speaker, the Foreign Service Act unfortunately is not consistent 
in the way it treats citizens from the mainland and those from the 
territories. While it allows for the State Department to pay for 
Foreign Service members to return home, to any of the 50 states or U.S. 
territories, after being posted abroad, it only permits residents of 
the 50 states who are at hardship posts, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, 
to be granted R & R for a period of time while posted.

This bill, at its core, is about equal and fair treatment for 
residents of the U.S. territories. When most of us hear the word home, 
we have a clear picture in our head of where that is. But for these 
Foreign Service members, it is not that simple. Under current law, 
these diplomats must pay their own way if they want to visit their 
family and friends back home in the territories, while diplomats from 
the states have their travel costs covered.



Although these members are from a U.S. territory, they are our fellow 
citizens and commit their lives to the diplomatic causes. They join for 
the love of their country and risk their safety in dangerous posts.

The bill before us today would eliminate this unequal and unfair 
treatment between Foreign Service members who reside in the territories 
and those that reside in the states. I urge my colleagues to support 
passage of H.R. 3658.