# JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF
## `7a765b2bd22f4ceab4803158e152278d`
`Mr. MARIO DIAZ-BALART of Florida â€” 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. MARIO DIAZ-BALART of Florida. Madam Speaker, this motion to 
recommit is frankly very simple. All it basically says is that 
countries that have business relationships with Iran are not eligible 
to be considered under this debt relief program. Let me repeat that.

This motion to recommit is frankly very, very simple. It just states 
the following, that countries that have a business relationship with 
Iran are not eligible to be considered under this debt relief program.

Now, the underlying bill in front of us today has a very noble goal, 
Madam Speaker. It is to work comprehensively to ensure that poor 
countries that have heavy international debt are able to relieve these 
debts through certain responsible actions. But the question is, should 
we separate these goals, these noble goals, from our broader foreign 
policy interests?

The Iranian regime, we all know, has a very active program to acquire 
weapons of mass destruction, and therefore, it makes it one of the most 
dangerous regimes in the entire world.

In addition, Madam Speaker, as we heard just recently, just last week 
from General Petraeus, we are increasingly concerned by the Iranian 
terrorist regime's efforts on behalf of terrorist elements in Iraq and 
elsewhere. The lives of our troops are at stake, and any country that 
assists Iran economically should not benefit from the bill in front of 
us today.

Our country, obviously the United States, does not have diplomatic or 
financial ties to Iran, and I don't think it's unreasonable to expect 
that countries that choose to participate in our debt relief program 
should shatter whatever economic ties they currently have with that 
terrorist regime. And if they don't have them now, if they don't have 
those ties now, they clearly should not develop them as long as they 
want or expect debt relief from us through this program.



Let's send the right message today, Madam Speaker. Americans are very 
generous and responsible in regard to the treatment of countries that 
owe us great debt. But we are also extremely concerned with the very 
dangerous actors abroad, around this world.

So that's why, Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask to pass this motion 
to recommit today and make sure that our friends abroad appreciate how 
seriously we take this matter.

I yield back the balance of my time.