---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7a77681c1c4936ffb3874dfbcab7aaaa`
`Mr. BURGESS — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time. I appreciate him letting me go out of order. I am not a member of 
his committee. But when my committee has time on Thursday night, I am 
hoping to be able to attend the memorial service for our comrade, 
Charles Norwood, whom we lost today.

Madam Speaker, I rise to speak against H. Con. Res. 63. I think it is 
a mistake. It is the first step of this new Congress, the first step 
this new Congress is going to make towards cutting off the funding for 
our troops.

You do not have to take my word for it. Yesterday's CQ Today, a 
magazine widely read up here in Washington, and I am quoting, ''It is a 
foot in the door toward limiting military involvement in Iraq. The 
Democrats want to do this by the Congressional power of the 
checkbook.''

Further in the article it says, ''Democrats are well on their way 
toward planning more aggressive measures in an attempt to force 
redeployment beginning by blocking funding, and ending in the 
supplemental spending request.

And then finally, Democrats said, ''The resolution would just be a 
first step in the process that could result in a reduction or 
reconditioning of funds slated for our troops in Iraq.''

Well, we do not have to go too very far back in our past to see the 
consequences of that type of action. When I was in Iraq in August of 
2005 General Casey told myself and a group of us who were there that 
there is no group in the world that can stand up to the American 
military. In fact, the only organized body in the world capable of 
defeating the American military was the American Congress.

I believe he was right. The CRS has done a report for this Congress, 
a report for Congress about restrictions of military operations in 
Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Somalia and Kosovo, funding and non funding 
approaches. I reference particularly, I urge my colleagues, this is 
easy to download from the Internet on the CRS, simply type in Cooper-
Church amendment, and you will get this well-researched product.



It details the Mansfield amendment, the Cooper/Church amendment of 
1970 and 1973, the Cranston amendment, the McGovern/Hatfield amendment. 
It also talks about the funding for Somalia. In fact, in this House, in 
1999, when President Clinton was President, a bipartisan group in this 
House came together to defeat a motion to block funding for the troops 
in Kosovo. So congressional actions regarding funding do have a real 
world impact.

And I would submit that much of the chaos that ensued after we left 
Vietnam, and I would include the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in that 
chaos, I would include the militant jihadist takeover of our Embassy in 
Iran in that chaos, much of that ensued because of congressional action 
that was taken on the floor of this House in cutting off funding for 
our troops.

And I am not a big one on process. I haven't been here that long. I 
don't know that I understand process all that well. But why in the 
world would we not allow a vote or even a motion to recommit on, say, 
Sam Johnson's bill, H.R. 511. Sam Johnson's bill, a simple two-page 
bill that details all of the fine things done by our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and ends with this simple paragraph: Faithful support of 
Congress. Congress will not cut off or restrict funding for units and 
members in the Armed Forces that the Commander in Chief has deployed in 
harm's way.

Wow, that is pretty simple. I don't understand. I frankly, do not 
understand why this House could not vote on this simple measure 
submitted by my fellow Texan, Sam Johnson, a legitimate war hero in his 
own right. I simply do not understand why we wouldn't have an 
opportunity to vote on that bill or offer it as a motion to recommit 
before we vote on the resolution.

And the resolution itself, it is a shame that we weren't offered a 
chance to amend the bill, to amend the resolution, to perhaps make it 
better. I urge people to go on line and read it for themselves. It is 
only two lines. It is not a very heavy lift to read this particular 
piece of legislation.

Line 1, Congress and the American people will continue to support and 
protect Members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving or 
who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq. That is sentence one. 
Remarkable for what it leaves out. What about a comma, and who will 
serve? Would it be so wrong to include those individuals who will serve 
in whatever time is left in the country of Iraq, to include them in as 
being worthy of our support in Congress?

Line 2 is so vague as to almost defy description. Line 2 reads: 
Congress disapproves of the decision of President George W. Bush, 
announced on January 10, 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 additional 
troops.

Well, would 19,995 troops be okay? Would Congress then not cock an 
eyebrow to say we don't like that either? Well, what does that second 
statement actually, what point are we trying to make by that second 
statement, other than we don't support the Commander in Chief, we don't 
support the mission, and as a consequence, you do have to ask if we 
support the troops.

Now, we are all sent here in Congress, we are all elected by 600- to 
700,000 people, back in our districts, back in our States, to make hard 
decisions. We are not sent here to read the polls, stick our fingers in 
the wind and then decide which direction to go. We are not sent here to 
shift tactics because we think we may become more


popular back home if we do that. I fully recognize that by voting 
against this resolution, I put myself in jeopardy of reelection, and I 
am willing to do that because I believe a vote for this resolution puts 
my country's fate in significant jeopardy for decades to come.

Now, I was not here when this House voted in October of 2002 to give 
the President the power he needed to deploy the troops. But I have 
always voted for funding for the troops. And I appreciate so much the 
chairman standing up here and offering his telephone number to any 
family who is concerned whether or not their loved one will have access 
to body armor in Iraq.

I remember those first hearings when I came here in March of 2003, we 
were instructed on how quickly our men and women in the field could get 
into their chemical suits. This was an object of great concern to 
everyone in this body. In fact, most of us sit on top of a chair which 
has a gas mask underneath it, just in case we need to leave this body 
in a hurry because of the deployment of chemical weapons. We were all 
concerned about chemical weapons back in 2003.

Now, I have made five trips to Iraq, and I know that what is reported 
on our television news services here in the States is not always 
accurately reflective of what is happening on the ground back in Iraq. 
I referenced Dr. Norwood a moment ago. My last trip to Iraq was in July 
of 2006. Dr. Norwood, Chairman Deal and I, and Gene Green from our 
Health Subcommittee went over to see the status of health care for our 
troops. I was very impressed with what I saw that day.

But, Madam Speaker, I think everyone in this body has to answer two 
fundamental questions on this resolution before us: Is it in our broad 
national interest to win this fight? The second question: Can we 
prevail? Can we provide a modicum of security in the country of Iraq? 
Can we provide a modicum of sovereignty in the country of Iraq? For me, 
the answer to those two questions is yes. Yes and yes. And I recognize 
that people of goodwill can disagree about these issues. But if your 
answer is no, and no, then please stand up, show some courage.

This is a nonbinding resolution, for crying out loud. Even a 
Democratic Presidential candidate said it is equivalent to standing in 
the corner and stomping your feet.

We have heard a lot about moral obligations tonight. Well, I would 
submit that we have a moral obligation that if we can't answer both of 
those questions in the affirmative, bring the troops home now. Don't 
wait till April. Don't wait till September. If we haven't the resolve 
to see this thing through, or if we no longer feel that it is in our 
broad national interest to continue this fight, why in the world would 
you ask any man or woman to continue to serve in that country under 
those conditions?

It is our moral obligation to ensure that our troops know our 
intentions and they know that we are going to provide continued support 
for them, and that continued support, whether it is bullets for their 
gun, whether it is the M-16, whether it is the Humvee, or whether it is 
reinforcements, we are going to continue to provide the things that the 
generals on the ground say they need for their men and women to get the 
job done.

When the President invited me down to the White House right before 
his Oval Office speech, he asked me what the constituents in my 
district would say. And I said, Mr. President, it is pretty clear. My 
constituents would say to you, if they were standing here today, fight 
the war or bring the boys home.

The rules of engagement sometimes, frankly, I don't understand. If we 
capture someone in Sadr City and we get a call from the Prime 
Minister's Office and we have got to take him back and let him go, that 
doesn't make sense, good sense, if you are fighting a war.

Well, it looks as if a lot of those restrictions have been removed. 
In fact, on the Drudge Report on Fox News earlier this evening they 
broke the story that Moqtada al-Sadr is now living is Iran. That is a 
good thing. That reflects the change in tactics on the ground brought 
to you by our men and women who are fighting for our freedom abroad.

Madam Speaker, I suggest that we commit together to support the 
future, the future support of our troops in the country of Iraq, or 
simply get them out of harm's way now. Again, Moqtada al-Sadr has fled 
to Iran.

I think we can prevail. I think it is in our broad national interest. 
I think the price of defeat is simply too steep, not just for us today, 
but for generations in the future.














 Parliamentary Inquiry
