# None
## `7a84766bcaf85eb913f2918aa8686791`
`Mr. POLIS — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for this report. I look 
forward to reading it, to discussing it and, hopefully, to imposing 
some best practices for future processes.

I would point out that there are, of course, distinctions in the type 
of work that we do here; between the critical, philosophical, 
democratic bases of our country and the discussion and debate around 
the Bill of Rights, and the work of the House that we need to conduct 
in a bipartisan way.

The gentleman will recall that, yesterday, Ranking Member Young and 
Chairman Murtha appeared before our Rules Committee and discussed how 
there was a strong bipartisan consensus on the bill. In fact, I believe 
that Ranking Member Young indicated that the bill would look 
substantially the same regardless of which party were in the majority, 
which shows the dedication of both parties in our country to protect 
our people.

I have to admit that, as somebody who was against the Iraq War and as 
somebody who is very skeptical of our ongoing operations of Afghanistan 
and, indeed, as to what our exit strategy is, it was actually 
disconcerting to me that the bill would look the same with regard to 
whichever party were in the


majority. I would like to address some of the issues relating to the 
exit strategy in Afghanistan and where we see that going.

I would like to yield 3 minutes to my colleague, the vice chairman of 
the Rules Committee, the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern).