# ENCOURAGING HUNGARY TO RESPECT THE RULE OF LAW
## `7a8d31e3b509139e44ced658f9d38d63`
`Mr. ENGEL — 8 December 2009`

---


Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution, and I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I thank my good friend from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) for 
introducing this important resolution.

Let me just say in 1989 Hungary joined its Central and Eastern 
European neighbors in throwing off the mantle of communist rule. By 
taking the brave and unprecedented decision in that year to open its 
borders to Austria and to allow East Germans to travel freely to the 
West, Hungary played a decisive role in bringing about the end of the 
Cold War. In the 20 years since, Hungary has become a member of NATO, 
the European Union and a strong partner of the United States.

Hungary is working side-by-side with the U.S. in Afghanistan, where 
it leads the provincial reconstruction team in Baghlan Province, and it 
has been a partner in conflicts in Iraq and in the Balkans. We greatly 
appreciate Hungary's staunch support in these and many areas.

However, we have become concerned about recent reports of possible 
unfair treatment of foreign investors in Hungary and possible efforts 
to inject politically motivated demands into the commercial process. In 
particular, we are concerned by the actions of the Hungarian National 
Radio and Television Board, ORTT, in deciding not to renew the national 
radio licenses for two foreign companies, one of which is American-
owned, and to award them instead to two local bidders.

In 1997, the ORTT awarded to the foreign companies the only two 
licenses to provide commercial, rather than state-owned, nationwide 
broadcast services. Those licenses expired on November 19 of this year.

According to widespread media reporting, the two foreign companies 
have alleged that before their renewal bids were due, they were 
approached by representatives of Hungary's two leading political 
parties, offering to ensure their licenses would be extended if they 
agreed to the representatives' demands for a percentage of the 
company's equity and a say in editorial content.

The two foreign companies refused, and the ORTT awarded the licenses 
to the two local bidders instead, who had submitted tenders that many 
outside experts have said are not commercially viable.

The day following the award, the chairman of the ORTT resigned in 
protest, claiming that the two local bidders' contracts were flawed and 
economically unsound. Numerous commentators have indicated that on the 
face of it, the ORTT's decision clearly appears to have been 
politically motivated and have ignored the economic feasibility of the 
two local bidders' tenders.

Madam Speaker, American companies have invested over $9 billion in 
Hungary since 1989. Hungary's economy, as with every other country, has 
been severely affected by the global economic downturn. We support U.S. 
companies' investment in Hungary, but we note that events such as this 
case give rise to questions about the fairness and transparency of 
doing business in Hungary.

We welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to investigate any 
complaint relating to foreign investments, and the decision by the 
Hungarian Parliament's Constitutional and Justice Committee to set up a 
body to examine the radio license transaction.

Hungary is a close friend and ally of the United States, and we urge 
the government to take all necessary steps to ensure that foreign 
investors are treated fairly. I urge all of my colleagues to support 
this important resolution.

Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to split the time evenly in 
favor of the resolution with my colleague, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen of Florida.














 Parliamentary Inquiry
