---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `7a922fdb2895021618500816a43018e6`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 12 March 2009`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, today I am pleased to introduce 
legislation that would make a tremendous difference in the lives of the 
millions of Americans suffering from neurological illnesses, injuries, 
or disorders.

An estimated one in three Americans suffers from some kind of 
neurological condition, from Alzheimer's to Parkinson's to multiple 
sclerosis. An increasing number of our troops and veterans suffer from 
disorders such as Traumatic Brain Injury, TBI, and Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder, PTSD.

Yet, despite this, we still have only a limited understanding of how 
the brain works, or how best to treat, diagnose, and cure neurological 
diseases and conditions. It is taking a terrible toll on our families 
and communities.

I know from experience how devastating these brain injuries and 
disorders are for victims and their families. My own father developed 
MS when I was young, and when he became too sick to work, my family had 
to rely on food stamps for a time just to get by.

Every day, we hear heart-wrenching stories of Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans suffering from TBI and PTSD. Veterans with these disorders are 
more likely to struggle with joblessness, homelessness, substance 
abuse, and depression. Many are in pain, desperate for help, but unsure 
where to find it. And, tragically, an increasing number are taking 
their own lives as a result.

A recent study by the Institute of Medicine, IOM, found that the 
long-term health consequences of TBI alone include dementia, 
Parkinson's-like symptoms, seizures, and problems related to 
socialization and unemployment. Clearly, TBI and related disorders will 
affect our servicemembers and veterans far into the future, and we owe 
it to them to develop better treatments and understanding of these 
injuries and disorders.

The Neurotechnology Initiative Act of 2009, which I am introducing 
today, would coordinate our efforts to support new developments in 
research, speed up our understanding of the human brain, and help lead 
to treatments for all victims of neurological disorders.

The legislation would make needed improvements to the research system 
in our country, which now is disjointed, often limiting the ability for 
life-altering research to reach patients in need. For example, it costs 
nearly $100 million more--and takes 2 years longer than average--to 
bring a drug that treats a neurological disease to the market. The 
combined economic burden of these illnesses and disorders is estimated 
at $1 trillion annually.

The National Neurotechnology Initiative Act would increase funding to 
the National Institutes of Health, NIH; help remove bottlenecks in the 
system to speed up research; coordinate neurological research across 
federal agencies by creating a blueprint for neuroscience at NIH; and 
streamline the FDA approval process for life-changing neurological 
drugs--without sacrificing safety.

The act also has economic benefits. It will help create jobs in the 
emerging field of neurotechnology. By developing better treatments, we 
can reduce health care costs for everyone.

This research also has the potential to transform highly specialized 
areas of medicine, computing, and defense. Most importantly, it could 
save or improve the lives of millions of Americans.

I am proud that this bill has support in the House, and I look 
forward to working on it with my colleagues here in the Senate.