# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `7aa047db2082d7ef4e202b082100fa2e`
`Mr. KERRY — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I support this budget resolution. For the 
last few years, I have not been able to support the budget resolution 
because it focused on the wrong priorities. I would like to commend 
Senate Budget Committee Chairman Conrad for crafting a budget 
resolution that focuses on the right priorities.

Today, we have before us a resolution that restores fiscal sanity to 
the budget process. It recognizes the realities of our current and 
future financial situation. This resolution eliminates the deficit by 
2012 and unlike the Bush administration's budget it does not leave out 
important costs like the funding of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and addressing the individual alternative minimum tax, AMT.

This budget resolution returns discipline to the budget process. It 
restores the pay-as-you-go-rule which was essential to reducing the 
deficit in the 1990s. It includes a provision which requires the 
reconciliation process to be used for deficit reduction. The 
reconciliation process was designed to set-up a procedure to expedite 
the passage of legislation. It was used successfully to reduce the 
deficit, but in recent years it was used to pass debt-financed tax 
cuts. Today, we are restoring the reconciliation process to its 
original purpose--deficit reduction.

The priority of the Administration's budget is to make permanent the 
2001 and 2003 tax cuts--at the expense of hard working families. This 
budget puts families first; it puts education first; it puts health 
care first. It is a resolution we can and should be proud of, 
particularly because we will be reauthorizing the Higher Education Act 
and No Child Left Behind this year. Now we know we will have enough 
money to make a difference with our legislation.

This resolution specifically and substantially addresses one of my 
legislative priorities--providing health insurance to children. In 
2005, 361,000 children under the age of 18 were added to the rolls of 
the uninsured, the first time in almost a decade that the number of 
children without insurance in this country increased. This brings the 
total number of uninsured children under the age of 21 to a staggering 
11 million. Thankfully, this budget begins to put kids first.

Under the resolution, the State Children's Health Insurance Program, 
S-CHIP, will be funded with an additional $50 billion over the next 
five years. This will maintain coverage for all currently enrolled 
children and enable coverage to be expanded to the estimated six 
million children that are eligible for, but not enrolled in, public 
health insurance programs. I will continue to work on this issue to 
ensure that every child in America gets the health care coverage they 
deserve: Their health and our future depend upon it.

This budget resolution includes many deficit-neutral reserve funds 
which will allow us to address our priorities in a fiscally responsible 
manner, including a fund for small business health care. Recently, 
Senator Snowe and I held a hearing on this issue in the Committee on 
Small Business and Entrepreneurship. This hearing provided a blueprint 
for how we can move forward to provide small business owners the relief 
they need from rising premium costs while also ensuring that more 
employees of small firms have access to affordable, meaningful health 
care coverage.

I have introduced legislation that would provide small businesses 
with refundable tax credits to help with the cost of providing their 
employees with coverage. I am also working on reinsurance legislation 
that would help small businesses with catastrophic costs. Small 
business health care needs to be addressed this year. I look forward to 
working with my colleagues on this issue.

This budget makes veterans a priority. Our veterans have admirably 
served their country and should receive the best health care that we 
can provide them. To follow through on this promise this budget 
resolution includes a deficit-neutral reserve fund to make sure that 
veterans receive necessary treatments and services.

I offered an amendment which ensures that this reserve fund addresses 
the needs of low-vision and blinded veterans. More and more of our 
brave soldiers returning from Iraq are coming home with serious eye 
injuries, mainly caused by traumatic brain injury. We must do our best 
to provide vision rehabilitation and screening services to try and save 
the sight of these veterans. The statistics are staggering: from March 
2003 to April 2005, 16 percent of all causalities from Iraq had direct 
eye injuries. Between Walter Reed and Bethesda Naval Hospital they have 
performed over 1,200 emergency eye surgeries. I am pleased that my 
amendment passed so that low-vision and blinded veterans will get the 
services they deserve.

I am pleased that this budget resolution puts an end to the myth that 
tax cuts pay for themselves. During the debate on this budget 
resolution, many of my colleagues argued that this resolution 
represents a tax increase. That is wrong. This budget provides a 
deficit-neutral reserve fund for tax relief. This will give the Finance 
Committee the opportunity to evaluate the tax cuts and extend them in a 
revenue neutral manner.

This budget addresses the individual AMT for 2007 and 2008. The 
Administration's budget only addresses this AMT for 2007. The 
resolution will prevent new taxpayers from being impacted by the AMT 
for the next 2 years and gives us time to work on a fiscally 
responsible solution. We need to address the AMT so it no longer 
punishes families with children that live in high tax States. Without 
addressing the AMT, there will be a hidden tax increase on the middle 
class.

I urge my colleagues to vote for this fiscally responsible budget 
resolution that puts families first.