---
---

# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `7aba4bcd5e5542d0976007a7829f16c1`
`Mr. REED — 7 May 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I take the floor today to talk about an 
amendment which I have been working on with Senator Scott Brown of 
Massachusetts. I am very fortunate to have Senator Brown's help, 
insight, and advice because of his extensive experience not only as a 
public servant but as a member of the Massachusetts National Guard. As 
a lawyer, as a company commander, and as someone who has served in 
various capacities within the Guard, Scott Brown knows from firsthand 
experience that young troops


particularly, men and women of our Armed Forces, can be exploited by 
unscrupulous business practices, and that it is essential when we 
create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency that there be a 
particular and explicit liaison for military issues.

Many of these young men and women are not in their home towns. In the 
context of today's operations, they are returning from duty in Iraq or 
Afghanistan. They have not been spending a lot of money in Afghanistan 
because there is not a lot to buy, and they come home and they want to 
buy a new car or they want to do something, and they can be exploited. 
That exploitation is particularly hard to bear when it is at the 
expense of a young person who is risking their life in service to his 
country.

Senator Brown and I are working on a joint amendment which would 
create an office of military liaison within the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau. The office would educate and empower servicemembers 
and their families to make better and more informed decisions, and it 
would work closely with existing personnel with the Department of 
Defense and the particular services so there is not only a place to go 
with a complaint, but also proactive information to avoid some of these 
missteps.

It would help monitor and respond to complaints by servicemembers and 
their families, and it would also coordinate efforts among Federal and 
State agencies, and that I think is absolutely critical. You have local 
insurance regulators, you have local attorneys general, you have the 
Better Business Bureau, you have the Department of Defense offices. We 
have all of these things, but often, particularly for a young soldier, 
where to go and get comprehensive one-stop help is hard to figure out. 
Many times they will approach an office and they will be told, well, 
you have a good case but we don't do that, and they are sent away. 
Given the time and commitment they have to devote to their service, 
this is another burden they have to bear, and we hope we can reduce 
this burden.

Senator Brown and I are working to develop the details of this 
office. I think it is absolutely necessary.

We have looked at--and I have been looking at this problem for years 
now, and communicating with the Department of Defense, Secretary Gates, 
and others at the Department of the Treasury about how to protect 
better our service men and women. We think this initiative will help us 
in that regard.

The Department of Defense and the Government Accountability Office 
have found that servicemembers are particularly vulnerable to expensive 
and often abusive products. I will take off my Senate hat and put on my 
old company commander hat in a paratrooper company. You have 18- and 
19-year-old men and women. They receive an enlistment bonus of 
sometimes $20,000. They don't have a home. They have bought the most 
expensive stereo equipment they already can buy. What they are looking 
for is something they can call their own, and usually that is a big, 
expensive car or truck. When they walk in the door, I think some of 
these dealers are aware of their vulnerability: lack of information, 
the short time they are back from an overseas deployment, the time 
before they are moving on to a deployment. So they are vulnerable. They 
are also vulnerable in another sense, not just with respect to products 
but there are so many families now where one of the spouses is in the 
military and the other spouse is in the military, and that other spouse 
is deployed overseas. So you have a member of the U.S. military with 
children, with a father or mother overseas, and they are struggling. 
Even with the pay they receive at the end of the month, it is a tough 
go. They are looking for good deals. There are too many people out 
there who are looking for people who are vulnerable to good deals. That 
is the reality today in the military. It is a different military force 
in terms of Operation TEMPO where I served where you were rather 
stabilized in one area for 3 years at least and then moved to another. 
Now you have families where the husband returns and 3 months later the 
wife deploys. That is a huge burden on the children, but it creates a 
kind of uncertainty and turmoil where financial problems are much more 
likely to occur. That is another factor of vulnerability, and we have 
to recognize that.

We also understand too that some of the more unscrupulous operators 
out there know these soldiers are getting steady paychecks, but they 
might not last all the way through the month. So they are a good sort 
of subject for some of these ploys. They have steady pay. You can go 
after them legally to try to attempt to do something, subject to the 
Servicemembers Civil Service Relief Act and all the other laws we try 
to protect them with. This is a target population in some respects, I 
hesitate to say, but unfortunately I think it is true.

The Under Secretary of Defense Clifford Stanley, who has been charged 
to be the champion for quality of life for protecting service families, 
has stated recently: ''The personal financial readiness of our troops 
and families equates to mission readiness.'' He reports that 72 percent 
of military financial counselors surveyed--these are the individuals at 
DOT, all the personnel whose job is to talk to troops about their well-
being--72 percent surveyed had counseled servicemembers on auto lending 
abuses in the past 6 months. So this is not an isolated incident in one 
part of the country; this is across the country, across the Department 
of Defense, and that is a significant situation.

It is not just auto abuses. Payday loans, for example. As I said, 
anybody who is working around a military base knows that come the end 
of the month, that paycheck will probably be deposited into the 
checking account, so that is a good bet to lend money to. But the 
interest rates they are lending at, sometimes the APR is up to 800 to 
900 percent. That is staggering. But they are doing it, and they are 
doing it to young soldiers who have their heads, some of them, looking 
forward to a deployment. Some of them have not even gotten over the 
last deployment, and we have to be conscious of that.

Rent-to-own loans. This is where you go to a shop and you say I would 
like to rent a TV for 30 days because you am deploying in 45 days. Then 
you don't deploy so you keep it, and in some cases you end up paying 
two to three times the retail price of the appliance. At least 
individual soldiers have to be informed of those practices and know 
about it. We have to be sure they are getting that information.

Refund anticipation loan is a classic. You are going to get your tax 
refund and if you let us give you a loan right now, we will take that 
tax refund. These turn out in some cases to have APRs reaching as high 
as 250 percent as you are borrowing against your prospective tax 
refund.

Automobile title pawns. Short-term loans are given to soldiers--and 
again, as a company commander, I never--well, let me see. It was more 
common to see a soldier in debt than to see a soldier investing in 
bonds and safe investments. It is the nature of being 18 years old, 
with some money and the feeling that you have to spend it. But 
automobile title pawns, short-term loans with very high interest rates 
to give the title of their car to the lender as collateral. Again, the 
whole notion to some youngsters in the military about what is a title, 
what is collateral, when they are looking at $2,000 or $3,000 on the 
table, that is only details. But when the time comes to pay the loan, 
they don't, and they lose their $25,000, $30,000 car or truck, and then 
it is a reality.

I think we have to be conscious of this. All of this is compelling in 
the abstract. It becomes even more compelling when you listen to the 
stories of individual soldiers.

Three years ago, Army SPC Jennifer Howard bought a car while she was 
stationed at Fort Riley, KS. As it turns out, the dealership that 
arranged her financing charged her for features on the car that she 
never got, such as a Moon roof and alloy wheels. You may say to 
yourself, how could anybody be so gullible? If you are a young soldier 
who just got back or is getting ready to go and you look at a shiny car 
and you know you didn't order the alloy wheels and Moon roof but you 
are not going to take time checking the manifest to see what you are 
charged with--that has been my experience. A dealer should know that, 
but apparently, in this case, they charged her anyway.

She says:




 The dealership knows that we're busy, we're tired. We don't 


 take the time, because




 we don't have a lot of time. It's like get in, get out, do 


 what we got to do. If we get taken advantage of later we'll 


 deal with it then.


SGT Diann Traina bought her car from a dealership that didn't 
actually own it. When it was repossessed, she was stuck with a $10,000 
bill. She said:




 Trying to concentrate on my job and the mission in Iraq and 


 then trying to figure out stuff that's going on at home, it 


 was really stressful.


She goes on to say:




 If there's some type of regulation or agency that's out 


 there to back you up, you know who to go to to complain about 


 somebody if you're experiencing a problem.


That is what we want to do--coordinate these activities through a 
military liaison at a consumer financial protection agency. We want to 
do that because it is the right thing to do and because if we cannot 
protect the men and women who are protecting us, then we have to ask 
seriously whether we are doing our job. I know they are doing their 
job.

With that, I yield the floor.