# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `7aca9ad9b72e7981c7da01b4b988380a`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as 
I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we've heard from a number of sources in the last hour or 
so that this is the 500th day since the President sent this request for 
absolutely crucial funding for our troops who are fighting in the 
Middle East. It's been heard enough that I don't think we need to dwell 
upon that a lot.

Mr. Speaker, today is the 500th day since the President's fiscal year 
2008 emergency supplemental request first arrived on the Hill. Oft 
times we make the mistake of assuming that we're doing the Lord's work 
in this body. But I remind my colleagues that the Good Lord created 
Heaven, Earth--and far more--and it took Him 493 fewer days to get it 
done.

It's no secret that I've had misgivings about the manner in which the 
majority leadership developed and moved earlier versions of the 
supplemental, without consideration by the Committee on Appropriations 
and under a closed rule.

While the regular order process was never followed, today I'm happy 
to report that the House has worked in a bipartisan fashion--and come 
to an agreement--on a funding package that will provide immediate 
support to our troops in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan.

This supplemental is long overdue and comes at a time when the 
Pentagon has already issued guidance to employees on potential 
furloughs. Clearly, our agreement on this legislation comes not a 
moment too soon.

A whole array of legislative provisions had been a part of the 
earlier version of the supplemental, including a massive tax increase 
on American small businesses. While several legislative provisions 
remain, the tax increase as been removed.

This is now a better package, one that provides an educational 
benefit for our returning troops and their families without placing an 
additional tax burden on small business--the economic engine that 
drives our national economy.

This package also includes unemployment insurance language that 
provides far more accountability than earlier versions considered by 
the House. The new provision includes an additional 13 weeks of 
coverage but requires that recipients work for 20 weeks in order to 
qualify for the benefit. From this Member's perspective, I believe this 
provision has been dramatically improved because it now requires that 
the recipient earn the benefit.



I'd like to make one additional observation as I close my remarks. 
Our friends and neighbors in the Midwest need to know this: Congress is 
prepared to help you get back on your feet as you respond to the great 
floods affecting your region. This legislation provides needed, 
targeted funding to address the many challenges you are now facing.

Mr. Speaker, this is a package that should receive the bipartisan 
support of the majority of our Members today. It is a package the 
President will sign. I urge its immediate passage.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield to the gentleman who played the 
key role in bringing that conference that we had together yesterday 
together in a fashion that caused us to be able to be here this 
evening.

I would recognize the Republican leader, John Boehner, for such time 
as he might consume.