---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `7ad45e7ce532451c1d5957768ff2f5cf`
`Mr. LEVIN — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Just very briefly, let me say that the Senate has adopted 
hate crimes legislation on a defense authorization bill, I believe, 
three times. This is not the first time we would do this. It is not the 
second time we would do this. So it is not unique. It is not unusual. 
It is not unprecedented.

It is important that we provide the same kind of protection for the 
additional groups who are being protected under this legislation, 
including groups who would be attacked physically based on sexual 
orientation.

It would protect men and women in uniform for the first time from 
these kinds of hate crimes. That is something in which the Armed 
Services Committee has a special interest. The language has been 
written to ensure that it does not intrude on first amendment rights, 
that State and local law enforcement retain primary jurisdiction over 
investigations and prosecutions. It would punish violent acts


only, not beliefs. No Federal prosecution could take place under the 
provision unless the Justice Department certifies that the State in 
which the hate crime occurred either does not have the jurisdiction, 
has asked the Federal Government to assume jurisdiction, or has failed 
to vindicate the Federal interest against hate crime motivated violence 
or that a Federal prosecution is necessary to secure substantial 
justice. Senator Kennedy was the champion of this provision. Over and 
over again, he attempted successfully in the Senate to get this kind of 
language adopted. He pointed out, and I think with eloquence that is 
unmatched, that the values men and women in uniform fight for are these 
kinds of values: the value of diversity, the value of 
nondiscrimination. To say this has no place on this bill, it seems to 
me, is wrong for that reason as well as a number of other reasons.


We have had strong support for this provision from the Department of 
Justice and from law enforcement groups across the country that want 
this kind of support. The Senate, again, has authorized this 
legislation on the Defense authorization bill and has supported it 
twice before. This is at least the third time now that it is part of 
this bill. There are good reasons for it being part of Defense 
authorization, one of which is the values that are reflected here that 
when the men and women put on the uniform of our country, they fight to 
protect.

This would be a real tribute to Senator Kennedy for this language to 
be included. I remember going over with him to urge the House to adopt 
this language a couple years ago. The House did not do it then, 
although we in the Senate did do it. But now the House has adopted it. 
The Senate voted on this language just a few weeks ago with, I believe, 
63 votes to incorporate this language into the Defense authorization 
bill. So we have already voted to do this. There is nothing unique or 
unprecedented about doing it again.

I hope we will invoke cloture. The stakes are huge. When I spoke 
before, I was quoting some of the things this bill will provide which 
are essential.

Now, some of the things in this bill required an appropriation. The 
Appropriations Committee hasn't acted on--excuse me--we haven't adopted 
an appropriations bill yet. Those things are not going to be held up if 
we don't pass this bill today, but there are a few things that will be 
held up. Our veterans are going to have to pay more for prescriptions 
and copays if we don't act on this bill, and acting on this bill will 
prevent that increase in copays without an appropriation.

We all talk about the importance of getting to Afghanistan equipment 
that is in Iraq. This bill has language which will permit that to 
happen. There is great disagreement as to what the right policy is in 
Afghanistan, but there seems to be no disagreement that we ought to 
strengthen the Afghan Army. One of the key ways to strengthen the 
Afghan Army is to get them equipment that is currently in Iraq which, 
if we don't pass this bill, is going to have to be shipped back here 
not only at great expense but also denying to the Afghan Army that we 
are trying to build up the kind of equipment that will make it possible 
for them to assert greater control for the security of their own 
country. That equipment cannot be transferred until this bill passes 
because that is nonexcess equipment. The moment this bill passes and is 
signed by the President, that equipment can be shipped to Afghanistan. 
That will protect our troops.

To try to pass another bill--have the House pass another bill, have 
another conference created if we can get one, have the conference, go 
through the process of conferees--is going to deny and delay an 
essential item going to Afghanistan to help protect our troops and our 
interests.

We talk a lot about: Why can't we do in Afghanistan what they did in 
Iraq? Why can't we have the Sons of Iraq be the Sons of Afghanistan? 
Why can't we put a policy in place which will attract those young 
Afghans who are on the payroll of the Taliban not because they believe 
in the extreme religious fanatic position the Taliban takes, but 
because it is a check or, more importantly, more accurately, cash they 
can put in their pockets?

With the Sons of Iraq we were able to wean away from the attackers, 
the people who hated us, 100,000 young Iraqis because we had a program 
which would help to fund that. This bill contains the authorization for 
our commanders to use CERP funding for that purpose. That is going to 
support our troops. Those funds can't be used until the President puts 
his name on this bill. Delaying that jeopardizes our troops, 
jeopardizes our interests, and it is one of the many essential 
provisions in this bill, and until they become law cannot be put into 
effect. But the moment it does become law, if and when it does, it can 
be placed into effect.

So the stakes on this first vote are great. If we delay adopting this 
bill by not adopting cloture, we are going to be taking a step 
backwards in terms of the support of our troops and our interests in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. The delay is unacceptable. I hope our colleagues 
will vote for cloture.

I note the absence of a quorum.