# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7ad973e2658c4ef9f2f529957eea41c8`
`Mr. ELLSWORTH — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ELLSWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, every day I am inspired by the unwavering will and 
determination of our fighting men and women who continue to serve with 
valor in Iraq and Afghanistan. Their commitment to serving our country 
represents the very best America has to offer and we owe them our debt 
of gratitude.

Mr. Speaker, I, too, wondered how this resolution would affect our 
troops. In recent hearings of the House Armed Services Committee, of 
which I am a member, when asked about the impact of this debate on our 
troops, General Peter Pace, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
a man I hold in very high regard, said, ''From the standpoint of our 
troops, I believe that they understand how our legislature works and 
that they understand there's going to be this kind of debate.'' But 
most importantly he told us, ''There is no doubt in my mind that the 
dialogue here in Washington strengthens our democracy. Period.''

Mr. Speaker, I had two Iraqi war veterans in my office this afternoon 
and I asked them about this resolution. They said, ''Congressman, let 
me tell you


what the guys over there think about. They think about doing their job, 
they think about staying alive, and they think about getting home to 
their families.''

General Pace and these soldiers are right. Our democracy is 
strengthened when we engage in vigorous debate about solutions to the 
challenges that we face, and there is not a more pressing, more 
important challenge before us than this war right now.

But let me be perfectly clear: I strongly and I unequivocally support 
our troops, and I challenge anybody that questions my patriotism. As a 
result, we must provide the equipment and the resources that our troops 
on the ground need to meet their mission safely. Their safety should 
never be compromised by our disagreements here in Washington, D.C.

Despite our differences, I believe the President is sincere in his 
desire to bring a successful end to the war in Iraq, but he has failed 
to convince me that sending these 21,000 additional troops represents a 
new or successful strategy. We went to Iraq under a failed plan in 
2003, and we can't afford to take the same failed path.

More importantly, we owe our fighting men and women better than what 
we are giving them. We need to know the goals for success are well-
defined; that benchmarks are in place for both the Iraqis and for 
America; and that the Iraqi government will live up to their end of the 
bargain. So far they have not, and there is no indication that says 
they will now.

For too long, Mr. Speaker, our country has gone without questioning 
whether there is a better way forward in Iraq, and before we send these 
21,000 men and women into harm's way, we must ask ourselves these 
questions. And I remind you, I asked General Pace these questions 
myself and asked him to look me in the eye and answer these. Does this 
plan produce less violence and fewer roadside bombs? Does it ensure our 
military can meet the other threats to our security and homeland across 
the country? Does it move us closer to the day when our fighting men 
and women can come home and America is at peace? I don't believe this 
plan answers any of those in the affirmative or with a yes.

Over the last few weeks, I have listened to generals, I have heard 
from constituents and talked to military families, and after countless 
hours of consideration, my gut tells me that I can't believe that this 
plan is the answer.

Unfortunately, this plan still gives no clear indication of the 
consequence if the Iraqis fail to meet their commitment that they made 
to us over the last few years. To date, our military has done 
everything we have called on them to do. Yet the Iraqi leaders have not 
lived up to their commitments.

I believe the time has come for the Iraqi government to step up and 
halt the sectarian violence, find the political will to solve their own 
problems and take charge of their own destiny. That is ultimately the 
key to finding a successful conclusion to this war and bringing our 
brave men and women home.