---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7adf6cb60cf2823600c784e5f37d5832`
`Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, with regard to the current 
debate on the floor on Iraq policy, I would like to offer the following 
observations.

First, I respect the President's constitutional role as Commander in 
Chief of the Armed Forces, and I appreciate President Bush's offer to 
entertain suggestions from Congress regarding Iraq policy.

I understand that success in Iraq depends on bipartisan support at 
home.

I applaud U.S. troops who are serving in Iraq with professionalism 
and bravery. They deserve the support of all Americans.

It is becoming self-evident that multiple, extended deployments to 
Iraq and Afghanistan have strained the military. Current deployments 
and those to come will have lasting impacts on recruiting, retention 
and readiness of the all-volunteer military.

Unfortunately, sectarian violence in Iraq between Sunni and Shia 
Muslims is increasing, and the failure of Iraqis to reach political 
settlements and support a unified government greatly contributes to the 
increased violence.

I believe it is time for Iraq's government and security forces to 
step forward and bear primary responsibility for internal security.

As the gentleman from North Carolina noted, the former head of the 
U.S. Central Command, General John Abizaid, told Congress last November 
that sending in more U.S. troops would not contribute to success in 
Iraq because it would prevent the Iraqis from taking more 
responsibility.

It is clear that Iraqi public sentiment opposes the continued U.S. 
troop presence.

In November, the Iraq Study Group called for new diplomatic and 
political efforts in Iraq and the region and a change in the primary 
mission of U.S. forces that will allow the United States to ''begin to 
move its combat forces out of Iraq responsibly.''

Unfortunately, the Iraqi Government has made little progress toward 
assuming more responsibility for security, disbanding militias, 
reconciling sectarian differences and improving essential services.

Therefore, I have reluctantly concluded that I have to disagree with 
the President's plan to send in an additional 21,000-plus combat 
troops. While I applaud the President's reassessment of U.S.-Iraq 
policy, I joined with several of my colleagues in January in informing 
the White House that I did not support an expansion of American troop 
strength on the ground, and


nothing that I have learned since has caused me to reconsider my 
position.

Nevertheless, Congress should not take any action that would endanger 
U.S. military forces in the field, including the elimination or 
reduction of funding for troops in the field.

Most Americans fundamentally understand the long-term security 
interests of the United States would be best served by an Iraq that can 
sustain, govern and defend itself and serve as an ally in the war 
against extremists.

Overall U.S. military, diplomatic, and economic strategy should not 
be regarded as an open-ended commitment but should be conditioned upon 
the Iraqi Government's meeting benchmarks, including the deployment of 
additional Iraqi troops in Baghdad, equitable distribution of resources 
without regard to sect or ethnicity, the use of oil revenues to benefit 
all Iraqi citizens equitably, and granting military commanders 
authority to make decisions without political interference.

Mr. Speaker, with very minor edits, the remarks you have just heard 
from me summarize the resolution on Iraq offered by Senator Warner in 
the other body. It is one of the alternative resolutions we should be 
debating here today. Unfortunately, the majority leadership does not 
want to allow a full and fair debate on Iraq.

When the Democrat leadership in the other body tried to force a vote 
on the resolution without an opportunity to offer meaningful 
amendments, the minority was able to insist on their right to a real 
debate rather than this phony pretense. Unfortunately, we do not have 
that ability in this Chamber.

So I will vote in favor of the resolution before us as offered, as 
narrow and as inadequate as it is, but I cannot help but express my 
frustration that the leadership of the House has squandered an 
opportunity to allow a full and fair debate with real amendments, not 
just to Republicans, but to all Members of the House, including their 
own Members whose voices are stifled by this decision to put political 
calculations ahead of the national interests and a robust debate.

I am not sure what the leadership of the majority party is afraid of. 
If they have the votes to reject alternatives, then they lose nothing 
by allowing them to be offered. If they do not, they will quickly 
learn, as we did, that if you need to use procedural games to avoid a 
tough vote, you have already lost on the underlying issue.

I thank the gentleman from North Carolina for allowing me to be a 
part of this debate.