# HOMELESS EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE AND RAPID TRANSITION TO HOUSING ACT OF
## `7ae58ec236e9293b79f0dba77b79bae8`
`Mrs. BIGGERT — 2 October 2008`

---


Mrs. BIGGERT. Mr. Speaker, as an original cosponsor of this bill, I 
rise in support of the Homeless Emergency Act and Rapid Transition to 
Housing Act of 2008, or the HEARTH Act. I would also like to thank 
Congressman Geoff Davis of Kentucky and, if she were here today, the 
original House version sponsor, the late Congresswoman Julia Carson for 
introducing this bill, H.R. 840. In addition, I would like to thank 
Chairman Frank, subcommittee Chairwoman Waters, and Ranking Members 
Bachus and Capito for working together with Congressman Davis and me to 
give homeless children a fighting chance in this country.

I would also like to thank all of the staff on both sides of the 
aisle for all of their hard work: Scott Olson, Jonathan Harwitz, Cindy 
Chetti, Tallman Johnson, Lauren O'Brien, Aaron Spurck, Andre Stevens, 
Kathleen Taylor, Clinton Jones, Nicole Austin. A tremendous thanks for 
all they have done.

Mr. Speaker, for inclusion in the Congressional Record, I would like 
to submit additional views authored by Congressman Geoff Davis, 
Congresswoman Capito, and me. These views were filed as part of our 
committee report to accompany H.R. 840, but they apply to this bill, 
H.R. 7221, as amended, as well.















Additional Views




 Mr. Davis of Kentucky, Mrs. Capito, and I acknowledge the 


 significant work that the Chairman, Ranking Member, and other 


 Members and staff have done to address many of the concerns 


 we raised about addressing the needs of homeless 


 unaccompanied youth, children, and their families in H.R. 


 840, a bill introduced by the late Rep. Julia Carson as well 


 as Rep. Geoff Davis.



 There are inconsistencies in the definition of homeless for 


 programs administered by the Department of Housing and Urban 


 Development (HUD) as compared to those administered by the 


 Departments of Education, Justice, and Human Services. In the 


 education section of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 


 Act, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 


 and the Head Start Act, the same homeless definition is used. 


 The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act program uses a similar 


 definition. However, the housing component of the McKinney-


 Vento Homeless Assistance Act uses a different definition, 


 which excludes a majority of the unaccompanied youth, 


 children, and families recognized as homeless by non-HUD 


 federal homeless programs.



 As a result, hundreds of thousands of homeless students, 


 homeless and disabled children, homeless infants, and 


 homeless children running away from domestic violence, unsafe 


 housing, or unstable living conditions are denied HUD 


 homeless housing and services.



 Several witnesses, including Dr. Ellen Bassuk, an Associate 


 Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, testified 


 before our Committee that many homeless children who are 


 currently excluded from HUD's homeless definition are prone 


 to health and developmental problems. Dr. Bassuk said that 


 there is documented evidence that almost 90 percent of 


 homeless families end up doubled-up, which results in severe 


 overcrowding and dangerous situations. The homeless children 


 in these families are at significant risk of physical and 


 sexual abuse, have seen people shot and killed, or have had 


 their own lives threatened. Highly mobile homeless students 


 suffer academically, are less likely to graduate, are sick 


 more than the average child, and are more likely to have 


 behavior problems.



 Homelessness among children is only becoming more 


 pervasive. A study conducted by First Focus and the Brookings 


 Institute determined that almost 2 million children will be 


 affected by the foreclosure crises. Many of these children 


 will become homeless, but, tragically, they will not qualify 


 for HUD homeless housing assistance or services.



 H.R. 840, as introduced, would reconcile the definitions of 


 homeless used among HUD and the other federal programs that 


 serve homeless unaccompanied youth, children, and families. 


 In addition, as introduced, the bill would recognize as 


 homeless many individuals and families that are not 


 recognized as homeless by these other federal programs.



 For many months, we have worked with Members of the 


 Committee, staff, and government and non-government 


 organizations representing various homeless constituencies to 


 craft a new HUD definition of homeless that would allow 


 homeless unaccompanied youth, children, and their families 


 served by other federal programs to also be recognized by 


 HUD as homeless and therefore qualify for HUD homeless 


 housing and services.



 On July, 31, 2008, during the Committee's consideration of 


 H.R. 840, Rep. Biggert and Rep. Davis offered an amendment to 


 allow all children and youth considered homeless by four 


 other federal programs to be considered homeless by HUD. They 


 withdrew the amendment because of an agreement with the 


 Chairman that they would: (1) continue to work on language to 


 amend HUD's definition of homeless as the bill moved out of 


 Committee toward full House consideration; and (2) send a 


 joint letter requesting that GAO examine the issue of 


 homeless definition discrepancies and related matters.



 Between July 31, 2008 and today, we and our staff have 


 worked with the Chairman and Housing and Community 


 Opportunity Subcommittee Chairwoman Waters, Education and 


 Labor Committee Chairman Miller and Ranking Member McKeon, 


 and their staff on a letter to GAO and new language to expand 


 HUD's definition of homeless to include more homeless 


 unaccompanied youth, children, and their families.



 On September 23, 2008, we joined the above-mentioned 


 Members and sent a letter to GAO. In recent days, we offered 


 language to Senate and House Members and staff negotiating 


 the final language of H.R. 840 and S. 1518 to include 


 homeless children, unaccompanied youth, and their families in 


 HUD's definition of homeless. We are pleased that Senate and 


 House Members have agreed to include the following language 


 as part of HUD's definition of homeless:



 Unaccompanied youth and homeless families with children and 


 youth defined as homeless under other Federal statutes who--



 (A) have experienced a long term period without living 


 independently in permanent housing,



 (B) have experienced persistent instability as measured by 


 frequent moves over such period, and



 (C) can be expected to continue in such status for an 


 extended period of time because of chronic disabilities, 


 chronic physical health or mental health conditions, 


 substance addiction, histories of domestic violence or 


 childhood abuse, the presence of a child or youth with a 


 disability, or multiple barriers to employment.



 It is our hope that by expanding HUD's definition of 


 homeless in this way, local, homeless service providers will 


 have the flexibility to provide homeless housing and services 


 to unaccompanied youth and children in involuntary and 


 unstable shared living arrangements, such as those living 


 temporarily in motels or hotels or ''couch surfing'' from 


 house to house. The ultimate goal is to break the cycle of 


 poverty, violence, and homelessness in our country by 


 providing homeless unaccompanied youth and children with the 


 opportunity to qualify for safe and stable housing so that 


 they have a better chance of being healthy, performing better 


 in school, and having a chance for a brighter future.


In addition, I would like to submit a New York Times article from 
September 16, 2008, entitled ''Capitol Strives to Define 'Homeless.' ''








 [From the New York Times, Sept. 16, 2008]









 Capitol Strives to Define ''Homeless''













 (By Rachel L. Swarns)




 Washington--With unemployment and foreclosures rising and 


 growing numbers of families struggling to find affordable 


 housing, lawmakers in Congress are debating who should be 


 considered homeless.



 For more than 20 years, federal housing law has counted as 


 homeless only people living on the streets or in shelters. 


 But now the House and the Senate are considering an expansion 


 of the definition to include people precariously housed: 


 those doubled up with friends or relatives or living day to 


 day in motels, with money and options running out.



 In the House, which is expected to vote on the issue this 


 month, lawmakers are discussing whether to expand the 


 definition to include about a million additional people--a 


 subset within the group of children and their families in 


 desperate need of stable housing--or to add a much smaller 


 group that would include only people fleeing their homes 


 because of domestic violence and those who can prove they 


 will lose their housing within 14 days.



 The Senate is considering a still narrower expansion that 


 would include only those forced to move three times in one 


 year or twice in 21 days. Congressional aides say senators 


 are willing to expand the definition




 further in consultations with the House that are now under 


 way, but the Senate legislation is not expected to pass 


 before lawmakers recess this month.



 The outcome of the discussions will most likely broaden the 


 categories of people eligible for emergency shelter, housing 


 and other services provided by the Department of Housing and 


 Urban Development's $1.7 billion budget for the homeless, 


 which accounts for most federal spending on homelessness. 


 Bush administration officials support the narrow expansion 


 under consideration in the House.



 But none of the bills come with any additional financing. 


 And with too few shelter beds and services available to help 


 the homeless who are already living on the streets, the 


 debate over whether to expand significantly the pool of 


 people eligible for such limited aid has sharply divided 


 advocates for the homeless and upended political alliances.



 In the House, Democratic leaders who pride themselves on 


 their commitment to the poor find themselves arguing that 


 there is simply too little money available to accommodate a 


 broad expansion of the definition, and too little time left 


 in the current Congress to accommodate any realistic 


 expectation that new money can be added.



 Some House Republicans, meanwhile, accuse the Democrats of 


 turning their backs on hundreds of thousands of struggling 


 families who are forced to move from couch to couch and from 


 house to house to keep a roof over their heads.



 Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who 


 heads the House Financial Services Committee, said, ''It's 


 one of the saddest things that we deal with, and it's 


 entirely the result of inadequate funding.''



 ''When there's not enough money to cover 'all of the 


 above', you have to do priorities,'' Mr. Frank said. ''The 


 question is, Which category of people are you going to leave 


 unhelped?''



 He and other Democrats blame President Bush and Republicans 


 in Congress, saying they have directed critical resources 


 toward tax cuts and the war in Iraq instead of making 


 programs for the poor a priority.



 Still, Mr. Frank has promised to keep negotiating with 


 Republicans to reach agreement on a definition before the 


 bill goes to a vote. And to help ease the strain where strict 


 definition intersects with limited federal money, the bill 


 would also give communities some flexibility in spending 


 those dollars on people who do not meet the definition.



 The issue is particularly complicated because HUD's narrow 


 definition of homelessness is not the only one used by the 


 government. The Education Department, for instance, which 


 assists homeless students, counts as homeless those children 


 who live doubled up with other families or in motels.



 In the 2006-07 school year, the Education Department 


 categorized 688,174 children as homeless. But only 32 percent 


 of those children lived in shelters or outdoors. The rest 


 failed to meet HUD's criteria for homelessness and so were 


 ineligible to receive emergency shelter or priority on 


 waiting lists for public or subsidized housing.



 Several advocacy groups, including the National Coalition 


 for the Homeless, argue that the HUD definition should more 


 closely mirror the Education Department's. Their efforts have 


 been championed by two House Republicans, Representatives 


 Judy Biggert of Illinois and Geoff Davis of Kentucky, who 


 would like those children identified as homeless by the 


 Education Department or other federal agencies to be eligible 


 for HUD's homelessness services.



 These advocates note that many families live in communities 


 where shelters are full or nonexistent. In other places, some 


 say, shelters sometimes bar large families, families with two 


 parents or those with boys older than 10.



 ''I think we have to take care of our most vulnerable,'' 


 Ms. Biggert said. ''Shouldn't children as well as the others 


 be a priority?''



 Barbara Duffield, policy director at the National 


 Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth, 


 echoed those concerns. ''This is really about our nation 


 acknowledging the extent of the housing crisis and the 


 devastation it wreaks on children, youth and family,'' she 


 said. ''The housing crisis is bigger than the emergency 


 system put in place to address it 20 years ago.''



 Opponents of a broad expansion of the definition counter 


 that demand for shelter beds already exceeds supply. About 


 700,000 people live in shelters or on the streets on any 


 given day, housing officials say. But federal dollars finance 


 only 170,000 beds.



 Some advocates also fear that communities would shift 


 resources from single, mentally ill or addicted people to 


 doubled-up families who were newly classified as homeless. 


 Such families are typically easier to serve and politically 


 more appealing.



 ''Nobody thinks that these families are having an easy time 


 of it,'' said Steve Berg, vice president for programs and 


 policy at the National Alliance to End Homelessness. ''But 


 when push comes to shove, when you've got people in 


 apartments and people in shelters and on the streets, the 


 people in the latter group need the help more.''



 No one knows precisely how many additional families would 


 be helped by the modest expansion proposals under 


 consideration in Congress, particularly since in practice, 


 HUD already allows for a bit more than the current 


 definition: it permits families who are doubled up to be 


 considered homeless if they can show that they will be losing 


 their housing within seven days.



 Whatever the number, ''we need to deal with the most 


 desperate the best that we can and keep working'' toward 


 greater expansion, said Representative Maxine Waters, the 


 California Democrat who heads the House Financial Services 


 Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. ''We don't 


 want to create competition and have people at each other's 


 throats for limited space.''


Mr. Speaker, homelessness among children has become more and more 
pervasive as we face increasing economic challenges. A study conducted 
by First Focus and the Brookings Institute determined that 2 million 
children will be unfairly affected by the foreclosure crisis. Many of 
these children will become homeless. But without this compromise bill, 
HUD's very narrow definition of ''homeless'' will prevent many of these 
children from qualifying for housing assistance or services.

It's hard to believe that anyone would argue the issue of ''who is 
homeless'' when it comes to homeless children, but believe it or not, 
that for the past 15 years has been the crux of the debate on this 
bill.

As it stands today, HUD's definition includes those individuals on 
the street or in a shelter, but it excludes hundreds of thousands of 
children living in involuntary and unstable conditions, shared living 
arrangements such as those living temporarily in motels or hotels or 
''couch surfing'' from house to house.

Mr. Speaker, there is no question that these children are homeless. 
When you hear them describe their lives, you can't help but understand 
why local homeless providers desperately want the flexibility to offer 
them services. Here's one story from Kentucky:

''I have lived in many homes and shelters. Just this past year, I 
have lived in 12 different homes. I have lived with classmates, 
teachers, friends, and strangers. Anyone who would accept me was better 
than the street . . . I have always dreamed of being free. I want the 
freedom to know where I am going to sleep, the freedom to know where my 
belongings are, and the freedom to know that I won't be asked to leave 
in the morning or the end of the week.''

Mr. Speaker, it's because of a story like this that last fall we 
began working with members of the Financial Services Committee, staff, 
and government and nongovernment organizations representing various 
homeless constituencies to craft a new definition that includes 
homeless unaccompanied youth, children, and their families.



These are families that are already considered homeless by all other 
Federal programs, but not recognized by HUD as homeless, and therefore 
do not qualify for aid.

I am pleased to report that the legislation we are considering today 
contains a compromise definition that will allow many more homeless 
unaccompanied youth, children, and their families, to access HUD 
services. There's still some things to work out with this bill, which 
is why I support a 2-year reauthorization of the program. During that 
time, we can work towards fixing provisions in this bill that don't 
seem to line up.

For example, there is a provision that explicitly excludes from HUD's 
official count of the U.S. homeless population all the homeless 
children and their families that fall under the bill's new definition. 
That doesn't make much sense.

In addition, the bill directs HUD to issue new regulations relating 
to the newly defined homeless children and families. I had hoped that 
this provision would include a negotiated rulemaking process so that 
all of the stakeholders involved could reach a consensus before a new 
rule is proposed. However, HUD is not required to do so, and could 
dismiss one side, the children's side, during the rulemaking process. 
It is my hope that our committee will continue to review this matter.

Finally, the bill sets funding restrictions on homeless children and 
families. It sets up a 10 percent cap on the funds that local homeless 
providers can use to serve these newly included populations. Were a 
local homeless provider to reach the limit, they would be forced to 
arbitrarily turn away homeless children and families. Clearly, this is 
an issue worth revisiting.



Mr. Speaker, despite these flaws, the legislation before us today 
will allow HUD to far more effectively complement the efforts of 
educators, service providers, and people like my friend and 
constituent, Diane Nilan, of Naperville, Illinois, who has worked so 
hard on this issue, as well as Barbara Duffield and Jeremy Rosen.

Mr. Speaker, this Congress has supported increased housing 
availability and affordability for many low-income individuals, 
families facing foreclosure, and disaster victims. I ask Members to 
continue that trend, and at least allow homeless children to qualify 
for safe and stable housing by voting for H.R. 7221.

With that, I would reserve the balance of my time.