---
---

# THE NEW DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS
## `7aeb9192335819311a1b3c258dde65af`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. The gentleman's point, one of the things that 
is very well taken is that the genius of our system lies in the system 
of checks and balances, the oversight that should have been provided. 
Now, those of us who were expressing grave misgivings about the 
President's plan to basically simply trust him that he had a plan for 
Iraq, to trust him that he had a plan on this, and any of us who spoke 
out and said, the responsibility for enacting foreign policy lies 
between the Congress and the President, carrying out the military side 
of it will always be done with great professionalism.

But as we ask the questions, what is the step beyond the military? 
What is the step for political gain in Iraq? What is the bigger 
picture, the geopolitical picture, of the Middle East? When we started 
asking those questions for 3 years prior to this Congress coming, we 
were told we were unpatriotic, that we were somehow undermining the 
troops. Forget that we funded them in terms of the VA and everything 
else at a historic level once we got here. We were told that. This 
oversight and this ability to check the executive branch is exactly 
what the American people are looking at.

I stress it and say it again. I do not believe that the American 
public were enamored strictly with Democratic ideology. But I can tell 
you what they were disgusted with; the belief of the sense of 
righteousness that was coming that there could be no room for debate, 
there was no room to compromise, there was no room to listen to the 
experts, and there was no reason to back off and say, ''Perhaps we were 
wrong.'' That's what we heard. That's what we heard for 6 years from 
this administration. That's what we heard with a Congress that provided 
this President no reason to veto. None. Zero. Why should he? They were 
writing the legislation. The President has been using the word ''veto'' 
in almost every sentence since we came here. That tells me the system 
is working beautifully. That tells me that the system is providing 
those checks and balances.

In this idea of oversight, there are a couple of important pieces of 
legislation that I would like to bring up and


then talk about how bills are now being written here, how laws are 
being enacted, and how the rhetoric that gets to the American people is 
all based on spin and politics. It is not based on reality.

The first of these is the Rail Safety Act. We had a sense in this 
country over time, and it was fought for by our grandparents and by our 
great-grandparents, it was fought for by every generation, to provide 
safe working conditions for our workers, to provide child labor laws, 
to provide good, safe ability of our people to make a living and return 
home to their families at the end of a hard day. The Rail Safety Act 
was to be authorized by Congress to oversee the operations of our 
railroads. Well, for the last 12 years, Congress has basically said, 
''We should just let the rail industry determine their own safety''. 
That is pretty much how we did it with airlines prior to September 11. 
''They'll provide it.'' No thought that maybe the purpose of business 
is to provide returns to their investors. No thought that maybe they 
would try and save a little money by cutting off safety at the expense 
of what might happen. So for 12 years, we have sat around and we have 
done nothing to reenact the Rail Safety Act.

This year we have already held three hearings. There will be a 
reauthorization of this. I have sat in those hearings in the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and watched rail workers 
come up and talk about how many long hours they are being forced to 
work, how their grievance process is held up and never listened to, how 
we are simply running on borrowed time before we are going to see a 
major accident, and how we have seen the data that has shown we are no 
safer. I have listened to people from the railroads testify in front of 
our committee and tell me how safe it was and how the numbers are 
comparable to previous years. And I have to note, ''but your numbers 
only went to October of last year. We had 3 more months that you didn't 
include.''

''Oh, yeah, sorry about that.''

That's the type of thing that went on. The American public doesn't 
expect us to take one side or another. They expect us to stand here, 
look at data, be fair, work with our colleagues across the aisle, hold 
firm to our convictions, disagree on issues, but do it agreeably, and 
come to a consensus that works. Don't try to figure out what the 
talking point is. Don't try and figure out how you can make the other 
side look bad. I spend a lot of time down here watching how much time 
goes in watching my colleagues make sure they say ''Democrat'' instead 
of ''Democratic.'' If it weren't so sad, it would be funny. But the 
problem is that's one small area that is a much bigger problem, that 
it's about the message, not about the effectiveness.

The second one I want to talk about is a very important one. Maybe 
many Americans don't know about it, but we have been waiting 8 years to 
get a reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act, the WRDA 
bill. The WRDA bill deals with everything from transportation, clean 
water, everything in this country dealing with how we work with one of 
our most precious natural resources, our lakes and rivers. In my State 
of Minnesota, one of the most important assets economically, 
environmentally and culturally is the Mississippi River. It is 
something that is so inherently ingrained in who we are as Americans 
and those States that are on that river that how we treat it and how we 
deal with it is critically important. Well, the locks and dams that 
make Minnesota a major shipper of our grain in the breadbasket of 
America are over 70 years old. They're in decay. We need to invest in 
the upkeep of these. That can only be done, the locks and dams on the 
upper Mississippi, through the Water Resources Development Act. We need 
to pass that. We need to move it forward so that our economic vision 
will extend to our children.

For 8 years, nothing was done. Nothing was invested in. And now, 
today, taking it one step further, I sat in a hearing in the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee dealing with the state of 
the bridges in our country. Now, it's obviously very timely. It has 
obviously been driven by the catastrophic and horrific collapse of the 
I-35W bridge in Minnesota. But when you see a map highlighting the 
thousands of structurally deficient bridges across this country, and I 
watch the administration's representatives say, ''We've got plenty of 
money to take care of this. We don't need to find a new revenue 
source,'' the aversion to speaking together and taking something off 
the table before we've had a chance to debate it is absolutely 
something the American people will no longer tolerate. This Congress 
has said, ''We need to figure out how to get these bridges funded.'' If 
it is through a Federal gas tax, then let's talk about it. And if it is 
through public-private partnerships, let's talk about them. If it is 
through reprioritizing how we use the resources we have, let's talk 
about them.

But we don't get that. What we get is slogans and radio ads talking 
about Democrats want to tax. Democrats don't want to tax. Democrats 
just want a country that works. This new Congress wants to have that 
discussion. We have sat here and watched bill after bill after bill go 
through subcommittees, committees, the full House, and minutes before 
we are to vote on it, the other side brings up a motion to recommit, 
which means a new piece of legislation. Most of the time, I have 
already got it down pretty well, is this one immigration or is this one 
felons? Which one are they going to bring up? They bring these up so 
they can go to the American people and tell them, ''They didn't vote 
against giving benefits to illegal immigrants.'' Well, one of the 
reasons we didn't do that was because they're not telling you the whole 
story. First is, it's already illegal and it doesn't happen. Secondly, 
the little part of the line that they don't say is, it would totally 
gut the funding of the piece of legislation we put out there.

That type of politics has the American public frustrated beyond all 
belief. Those two pieces of legislation, Rail Safety Act and the WRDA 
bill, should be absolutely nonpartisan. They should have maybe some 
philosophical differences on how you administer that or possibly how 
you pay for it. But here was the solution we had: ''Let's not regulate 
it. Let's not provide oversight. Let's let the corporations themselves 
do so. That's the best way to do that.''

Well, the American public has rejected that. The American public has 
said, no. The American public says, We're not against regulation. We're 
against excessive regulation.



We are against regulation that doesn't make sense in terms of safety 
and the ability of our railroads to profit. But somehow because we are 
asking for these pieces of legislation to go through, that we are not 
supportive of economic growth, is ludicrous, especially on the WRDA 
bill.

Everybody agrees that the WRDA bill will be a major economic driver. 
It will put billions of dollars into the economy in terms of rebuilding 
and rehabilitating the locks and dams and other resources, as well as 
speeding up the transportation time. The Mississippi River has such a 
bottleneck near St. Louis that we can barely move cargo through that. 
We have an aging infrastructure, bridges that are unsafe, roads that 
are clogged.

The solution from the administration, they are talking about 
congestion pricing. That means we will charge a higher toll on roads 
that are busy in order to force people off them. I guess they assume 
that some of us are just driving around in the mornings, not taking our 
kids to school, not going to work; that we just like driving and 
clogging the roads. So the best thing is those of us who can't afford 
us, get us off the roads so those lanes will be nice and wide open for 
the people who can afford to pay to go down them.

The American public said that is not a solution. Get something else 
and debate it. That is what we are trying to do.

Now I would like to take a minute to explain to you how I believe and 
what I have seen and what I was hoping when I left that high school 
classroom, when I came to this building, when I came to this sacred 
floor, how I was hoping legislation would work. I live in southern 
Minnesota. It is one of the most productive agricultural lands in the 
Nation; in the world, I should say.

The county I live in is called Blue Earth County. People on the 
prairie are pretty literal. When they call towns Plainview, that is 
because that is what you see. When they called that


county Blue Earth, that is because the soil there is so black and so 
rich that when the sun shines on it on the summer days, it literally 
looks blue. This is land that can produce 200 bushels an acre of corn. 
This is land that feeds the world.

The farm bill is an important piece of legislation to that district 
but also across the country. The farm bill is a big piece of 
legislation that has historically been very, very bipartisan. That is 
because 66 or so percent of the farm bill deals with nutrition 
programs; how we feed our children in schools, how we feed our seniors, 
how we feed those who are not fortunate enough or need to use food 
stamps or other programs. That is 66 percent of it.

About 12 percent deals with the safety net that keeps our farmers in 
business, that provides this country the cheapest, most abundant, 
safest form of food at the least expensive disposable income of any 
nation in the world. That farm bill does that. It also provides things 
like rural development. It also provides conservation measures.

Well, here is how the farm bill was written. When I got here to 
Congress and was placed on that committee, we were given the 
instructions by the chairman of that committee in January to spend the 
next 2 months going out and listening to everybody, holding sessions, 
holding hearings, soliciting information, doing whatever you could to 
let people start writing that farm bill, because here was the 
directive. The farm bill would be written by the people through the 
subcommittee, to the full committee, to the House of Representatives, 
and then we would get a piece of legislation that we could be truly 
proud of.

So we did it. I went out and held 14 listening sessions throughout my 
district. It varied in attendance from maybe 50 to 150 people. It 
varied from teachers to social workers, of course farmers, agribusiness 
people. And as they came there, they came with a lifetime of ideas. 
They came with a vision of what agriculture should look like in 
America, and they wanted to be part of the process.

So they came and told me this: Congressman Walz, the average farmer 
in the first district is 58 years old. We are getting old and our 
children are leaving. It is very difficult to get into farming.

So groups as diverse as the American Farm Bureau and the Land 
Stewardship Project and the Farmer's Union got together, and each of 
them had proposed different ideas on beginning farmer and rancher 
legislation. Their members came to these meetings and explained the 
need for this.

We, myself, my staff, the ag committee staff, got together and helped 
write legislation. That legislation was taken into and offered up in 
the subcommittees as amendments to the farm bill. My colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle debated both for and against this piece of 
legislation and offered secondary amendments to change it, which we 
debated, accepted some, rejected some. When we were done, we had a 
piece of legislation that was heralded by most farm groups as a major 
step forward in making agriculture accessible to future generations.

That piece of legislation got added in. It was not written by special 
interest; it was written by people who care about this. Did special 
interest have their say? Of course they did. Our job was to sort that 
out.

Well, that piece of legislation in the farm bill happened in all the 
subcommittees, and that piece of legislation was debated in the full 
committee and that piece of legislation passed out of the full 
committee and came to the House floor. My colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle, I can guarantee you this, many of them, especially those in 
farm country, said this is a good piece of legislation.

Bipartisan groups, groups that were on the spectrum of politics about 
as far apart as you could get from one another, from environmental 
groups to production ag groups, were saying: You know what, I think 
they got it right. And then as we brought it to the floor, one of the 
things that we had to do was figure out how this thing is going to be 
paid through the whole process. Because commodity processes have been 
high in past years, we did not pay about $60 billion in subsidy 
payments, whether it be direct payments, contra-cyclical payments.

So what happened was when we budgeted under PAYGO, our budget for 
this year's farm bill was $60 billion less. So when we got to the end 
it became apparent, because Democrats wanted do make sure we did 
something as simple as this, we let the Food Stamp Program, senior 
feeding programs and some of our nutrition programs that had been 
underfunded for years, we wanted to do something as simple as boost 
them up to a level that people could get the caloric intake they needed 
to have a healthy diet, and then we wanted to peg it to inflation to 
make sure that what we put in the bill this year isn't eaten up by 
inflation next year. Doing any budgeting without considering inflation, 
to me, seems disingenuous.

So we did that. The way we came up paying for it was a suggestion 
given to us by President Bush and his budget director. They had 
identified several years ago approximately $7/1/2/ billion in 
uncollected taxes from companies, in the President's own words, that 
were inappropriately using the U.S. Tax Code to shift their tax burden 
by shifting profits to offshore entities, mainly in the Caribbean, 
Bermuda being the one, meaning foreign corporations doing business in 
America, making a profit here, shifting that profit to Bermuda 
and reporting zero in tax liability.


The President said it was inappropriate, as did his budget director. 
We agreed with him. We closed that loophole, asking them to do the 
thing that is most American of all, pay your fair share and take that 
money, put it in to enhance our nutrition programs.

Well, that was unacceptable because now that is considered a tax. 
That was the rhetoric that was coming. So now a decision has to be 
made. Are the American public, when they listen to this farm bill that 
needs to pass, and, by the way, we told them in January that we would 
have it done by the end of July, and there wasn't a single person that 
thought that was possible. Well, it was done. It was done by the end of 
July. We took it home.

I went to Farmfest, Redwood Falls, Minnesota to wide acclaim for this 
piece of legislation. It is not perfect. Nothing here is. It is a 
compromise. But it is a good one. It is good for rural America. It is 
good for our nutrition programs. It is good for our economy.

Well, that thing is now under a veto threat by the President. So the 
President has a decision. He can stand in front of the American public 
and say ''I am going to veto a really nice piece of legislation that 
was worked on from the grassroots level,'' exactly how you would hope 
the American democratic system works, ''and I am going to veto that 
because I believe that those foreign corporations have the right to 
avoid paying their taxes,'' or he can tell the American public, ''You 
know what? This was worked on bipartisanly, this was done correctly, 
and we should vote together on this.''

We should tell the American public, this isn't about politics. This 
isn't about trying to get a campaign ad that says the Democrats are 
trying to raise taxes. This is about doing the right thing that we can 
all take credit for. That needs to happen. Now I would say the ball is 
in the President's court. The ball is in his court when it comes from 
the Senate to do exactly that. This Congress will continue to do that.

The last thing I would like to talk a little bit about is this new 
direction. One of the things that I think Democrats are rightfully 
proud of, it is the first piece of legislation many of us got to 
cosponsor, that was the small business tax relief and the raising of 
the minimum wage.

This piece of legislation, we know it has been over a decade since we 
saw a raising of the minimum wage. Some of my colleagues say, what's 
the big deal? I have got many names and many stories I could tell them 
why it is a big deal to raise the minimum wage, why the 3 million 
children living in families with parents with minimum wage, it is 
probably a pretty big deal to them.

But part of the story is focusing on the small business tax relief. 
The rhetoric that will come out is always one or the other, either/or, 
the false dichotomies. ''Well, Democrats are for raising the minimum 
wage, but they are not for helping business.'' Nothing could be further 
from the truth. In fact, we passed this and it was signed into law.



Here are a couple things that it did, just to let you know. It was 
endorsed, by the way, by the Chamber of Commerce and the National 
Federation of Independent Businesses. I don't hear my colleagues on the 
other side talking a whole lot about this. I think they should. It 
would be a good one for them to talk to their constituents about.

It extends a tax provision that lets small business owners write off 
more equipment each year for use in their trade or business, 
understanding that small businesses have a need for the infusion of 
capital purchases and things that they need to get started with their 
business, making sure they are able to write those off. Absolutely 
appropriate, absolutely the right use of the Tax Code, and absolutely a 
sense of investment in the future.

If we give these tax cuts, and some of them are pretty substantive, 
about $4.84 billion total, it ensures married couples who jointly own a 
small business both receive credit for paying Social Security and 
medicare taxes.

I am at a loss to understand why over the last 12 years of Republican 
control that was never fixed. This is a pretty important fix, and it is 
one that small businesses understand is important. It includes enhanced 
tip credit to ensure employers don't lose current tax benefits when the 
minimum wage goes up; S Corp provisions to keep tax benefits of being a 
small business even as they grow and expand; and extends the Work 
Opportunity Tax Credit through August of 2011.

These are things that are going to impact positively on small 
businesses. Seventy percent of our jobs are created in small 
businesses, employers with 50 or less employees. Those are the things 
that we have taken to do.

So those who would say nothing positive is being done, this Congress 
is not moving anything forward, would be remiss to look at the facts, 
what the facts have been. The most significant increase in veterans 
care that we have seen in the 77-year history, probably I think it is 
safe to say in this Nation's history; an ending of a 10-year period 
without a raise to the minimum wage for millions of American workers; a 
small business tax package that is going to enhance their ability to 
compete in the world; an ethics reform package that independently has 
been hailed as one of the most significant since Watergate, to bring 
back the dignity, to bring back the trust of the American people in 
this institution.

You heard some of the things about energy, focusing on energy 
independence. We have got a farm bill that is going to be one of the 
best we have seen. And when the President decides he is going to choose 
our farmers over foreign companies that avoid paying taxes, we are 
going to get a great farm bill.

We have got a Water Resources Development Act that is going to 
enhance our ability to compete in the world while adding billions of 
dollars in investments to our infrastructure.

We are going to clean up the Rail Safety Act. We have seen packages 
to education to make college more affordable, the most significant 
increase to Pell Grants. We have cleaned up what has been an absolute 
debacle in private lending, moving away from government-subsidized, 
low-interest loans to get our children through college by saying, gee, 
we have this vast pool of American kids who need to go to college to 
compete. Why shouldn't we profit from that? Why shouldn't we let 
private lenders make a whole bunch of money of them? That would be a 
good thing to do.

Now, that is quite a difference from what she said when I went to 
school, when future generations invested in me and said we are going to 
keep college as affordable as possible. We are going to make sure we 
use grants as much as we can, and we are going to make sure that the GI 
Bill can be used by these young people who are willing to sign up and 
they are able to get their education. That was wisdom. That was vision. 
That was nonpartisan.

Many of those accomplishments can be attributed to ideas coming from 
the Republican side of the aisle. Unfortunately, for the last few 
years, that hasn't been the case. But we have got a new direction. We 
have got a new optimism.

As I started speaking today, I talked about the changes each one of 
us have seen. We have been here for 8 months. In my home State of 
Minnesota, I am happy to tell you that I think I have witnessed change 
that all us want to know.

On August 19, as we talked a little bit about it, my district saw 
some the worst flooding that they have ever seen; 17 inches of rain in 
a 24-hour period. We had entire towns wiped out, towns of 2,500 to 
3,000 people. I went into that town riding on a boat as people were 
leaving their second story windows as people were picking them up. We 
have seen catastrophic displacement of large numbers of people.

As I said, on Sunday, the rains were falling, and I was there with a 
Republican Governor. On Monday, a Republican Senator and a Democratic 
Senator, a Republican Governor and a Democratic Congressman toured 
together and promised to do everything that was possible. On Tuesday, a 
Republican President was in Minnesota pledging to the help of the U.S. 
Government. On Wednesday, a Republican Governor requested that help. 
And on Thursday, the administration delivered on that. By Sunday, FEMA 
was in the district caring for our people, taking care of the needs, 
and showing that, you know what? When we work together, there is 
nothing this Nation can't accomplish.

I am proud to be a member of this new class. It has been 8 months of 
change. The new direction we are going in is one that the American 
public wants.
