---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2200, TRANSPORTATION SECURITY  ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT
## `7af289b04ef8bafb2b9dce9d01bdbc75`
`Mr. SOUDER â€” 4 June 2009`

---


Mr. SOUDER. I thank the gentleman and my friend from Florida for 
yielding time. I speak in opposition to the rule. I want to thank 
Chairman Thompson, Subcommittee Chair Sheila Jackson-Lee for their 
bipartisan effort. In fact, this is a bipartisan bill and one that 
there's really no fundamental reason to vote against.

In fact, some of the amendments we're voting on today, such as people 
being able to retrieve their cell phones, are very nice. The one on 
people with hip replacements is very important to me. I have three of 
the four biggest orthopedic companies in the United States--in fact, in 
the world--in my district. And Chairman Oberstar and others who go 
through the machinery with hip replacements have concern on how we do 
that.

But, you know, it doesn't matter very much if you can find your cell 
phone or get through security easier if you die. And one of the 
problems here is I had offered an amendment before the Rules Committee 
that would have had added an important layer of security for the U.S. 
commercial aviation to the TSA Authorization Act. Unfortunately, on a 
party line vote my amendment was not made in order.

My amendment was very simple. In fact, I was shocked. I thought the 
debate in committee was going to be whether we were going to ask for 
just a voice vote or a recorded vote to make sure everybody was 
recorded. Instead, it was challenged. So I brought it to the committee.

It's very simple. It requires TSA to place any detainees held at 
Guantanamo Bay on the No Fly List. Now I think they ought to stay at 
Guantanamo, but it looks like I have lost that debate.

They may be coming in the United States. We have released some around 
the world. Many of them have already committed terrorist acts since 
then or reaffiliated.

But whether you agree with it or not, it seems so simple and 
fundamental that, if they're released in America, they ought to go on a 
No Fly List. For crying out loud, we have all kinds of people on the No 
Fly List. Why would we not automatically place somebody who is released 
in the United States on the No Fly List?

It is essential that we guarantee the security of the American 
people. The TSA Authorization bill is one of the first opportunities we 
have to take meaningful steps to ensure that any Gitmo detainee 
released in the United States is a threat to the American public and 
doesn't get on an airplane.

My amendment closes a potential terrorist loophole. Actually, it's 
not a loophole. It's a fly hole. It is so huge that it puts all of us 
at risk.

I offered this amendment during committee markup. Unfortunately, it 
was gutted by a second degree amendment. It wasn't compromised, it 
wasn't changed. Basically, it went right back to the current policy we 
have. It was totally gutted.

The Gitmo prisoners released in the United States may or may not be 
added to the No Fly List under this bill. It's an interesting thing. 
There's an option that they could be added to the No Fly List, but 
there's no guarantee under this bill. It was not a compromise 
amendment. It was a gutting amendment.

So the committee never had a choice of whether to vote. They voted 
unanimously on the majority side to not allow my amendment to be voted 
on and gutted it, saying it would be up in the air.

The transfer or release of any of these detainees is a matter of 
homeland security. We need to have a serious debate about whether it's 
appropriate to bring them on U.S. soil, where they will be kept, what 
will happen if they're released in the United States. But even 
the President's own administration has noted that any Gitmo detainees 
released in the United


States would need additional security and monitoring.


In May, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano stated before 
the Committee on Homeland Security that DHS would take efforts ''to 
ensure that Americans are confident in their safety'' and recognized 
that the Department had a role ''to provide information on what 
protections are needed in the homeland should Gitmo detainees be 
released.''

That same day, FBI Director Robert Mueller testified before Congress 
that bringing Gitmo detainees into the U.S., even to maximum security 
prisons, poses significant security risks, including radicalization of 
other inmates.

All I'm asking is they be placed on a No Fly List. Why wouldn't we? 
Maybe my amendment should have said at least they get denied an aisle 
seat. I mean, I don't understand this at all.

Despite earlier confirmation by Defense Secretary Gates that the 
Chinese Uyghurs would be released in the U.S. as soon as the final 
details are complete, the Solicitor General filed a brief with the 
Supreme Court on Friday arguing that these individuals should not be 
brought into the United States since they are associated with a 
terrorist group. They were associated with the East Turkistan Islamic 
Movement and they were funded and trained by al Qaeda in Afghanistan, 
yet they were going to release these 11 in northern Virginia so they 
could get on the airplanes going out of Reagan Airport. What is wrong 
with this? We need a guarantee that that's not going to happen.

Despite the concerns of the public and the uncertainty within his own 
administration, the President is forging ahead with a plan to bring 
some of these detainees to the United States. Even if they are 
transferred from Gitmo to a U.S. prison, they could fall under 
constitutional protections allowing for their release. And this is a 
very real possibility with existing precedent. Then it will be even 
harder to put them on a No Fly List.

Based on a Supreme Court ruling, DHS is forced to release illegal 
aliens, including many dangerous ones, after 180 days.