---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `7af77a63177fc1c4e5ec84ed07c19a61`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 10 May 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

President Ronald Reagan said, ''We must realize that no arsenal or no 
weapon in the arsenals of the world is so formidable as the will and 
moral courage of free men and women. It is a weapon our adversaries in 
today's world do not have.''

This courage and this commitment are most clearly evident with our 
men and women serving our Nation in Iraq. I see it in my stepson Doug 
and my daughter-in-law Lindsay, who were Marine officers flying 
missions in Iraq. Lindsay is now serving in Afghanistan. I see it in a 
valued member of my committee staff, Matt Zweig, who just returned from 
a 1-year tour of duty in Iraq. They believe in, and have fought for, 
our mission. And their courage is palpable.

And I think of the Parsons brothers in my congressional district. You 
have heard me speak about them before. All three of them were my West 
Point nominees. I have known them since they were just young boys. Bill 
Parsons is serving his second tour in Iraq. The youngest boy, Charlie, 
is on his first deployment in Iraq. Huber Parsons is on his third 
deployment to Iraq.

But today Huber, and his Stryker Brigade, was hit by a deeply buried 
IED. The Stryker caught on fire, and Huber thought that he was going to 
burn to death as the Stryker fully caught on fire. They were battling 
small arms fire as they pulled him away. Their driver was killed. Huber 
suffered a broken leg and a broken ankle, but his spirits are high. He 
will soon be in a military hospital in Germany. But his commitment to 
the mission, unwavering.

The father, in deep pain, wrote to me in an e-mail just a few hours 
ago, and he said, ''We are but man and only know in part. But we know 
that we have a great God, and we give Him praise in all things.'' He 
said, ''Yes, even in this.''

He adds, ''Please pray for the families of those who have paid the 
greatest price, for Huber's complete and speedy recovery . . . and for 
the men whom they command and lead and for all the men and women who 
serve our Nation.'' And he says, ''And pray for the wisdom of our 
President, all policymakers, and all commanders.''

Yet we stand here today, Mr. Speaker, faced with a supplemental that 
seeks to put these valiant efforts on an installment plan as they face 
a brutal, ruthless enemy that seeks to kill Americans wherever they 
are, as this supplemental ties the hands of our military commanders, as 
it doles out funds in pieces, and yet it provides millions to the 
United Nations and other international organizations through next 
September. This cannot, this must not, stand.

For the Parsons brothers and for all who serve our Nation and risk 
their lives every day, let's succeed and let's vote against this 
supplemental.