---
---

# IMPROVING COMPENSATION BENEFITS FOR VETERANS IN CERTAIN CASES OF  IMPAIRMENT OF VISION INVOLVING BOTH EYES
## `7afc2d2d3cb3f682b383802430462e85`
`Ms. BALDWIN — 21 March 2007`

---


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 797, the Dr. 
James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act.

This bill fixes an inequity that has resulted in the denial of 
appropriate disability compensation to blinded veterans.

I wanted to share, first of all, the story of Dr. James Allen after 
whom


this legislation is named. Dr. Allen is a distinguished, caring 
professor of ophthalmology at the University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine. He has worked at our veterans hospital for nearly 33 years 
and treated countless eye patients, including many veterans who are 
blind.

One such patient is a Mr. Donald May. Don is a World War II veteran 
who lost his right eye in a hand grenade explosion. A few years ago, 
Mr. May began losing vision and ultimately became legally blind in his 
other nonservice-connected eye. He applied to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for help, but was denied further benefits. He was told 
that the current law in regard to paired organs did not apply to him 
even though he was legally blind in both his service-connected right 
eye and his nonservice-connected left eye.

After Dr. Allen brought the plight of Don May and many other patients 
to my attention, I began to research why these veterans were being 
denied the benefits that I felt they deserved, benefits that I believed 
Congress intended to grant them. Through my work with the Blinded 
Veterans Association, we discovered that while the current paired organ 
statute covers blindness in theory, in practice few if any veterans 
have been able to qualify for the additional disability compensation 
under its terms.

Congress has rightly recognized that some human organs and limbs are 
designed to work in pairs: our legs, our kidneys, our lungs, our ears, 
and of course our eyes. In the instance of eyes, blindness in one eye 
profoundly affects depth perception, even if sight is fully retained in 
the other eye.

The paired organ statute was written to assist those veterans who 
experience a service-connected loss of a paired organ or limb. This 
statute recognizes the interdependency of paired organs, and endeavors 
to treat the combined disability created by a nonservice-connected loss 
and injury or degeneration of the remaining paired organ or limb as 
though it, too, were the result of a service-connected disability. In 
general, the paired organ statute accomplishes this task except its 
treatment of loss of sight.

With regard to eyesight, the statute does not adequately define the 
term blindness, nor is any provision made for the impairment of vision 
in the nonservice-connected eye short of blindness.

Rather than using a visual acuity of 20/200 or a loss of field of 
vision 20 degrees, as is the definition of legal blindness that has 
been adopted by all 50 States and the Social Security Administration, 
the Department of Veterans Affairs uses a much more restrictive 5/200 
rating for legal blindness. I was asked to describe exactly what that 
5/200 means. Really, in layman's terms, it is the equivalent to having 
light perception only, but the specific definition is somebody with the 
ability to see at 5 feet what most of the rest of us could see at 200 
feet.

As a result, few if any blinded veterans are able to qualify for 
additional compensation under the paired organ statute.



H.R. 797, the Dr. James Allen Veteran Vision Equity Act, fixes this 
problem. It defines blindness as impairment of vision where the 
impairment is to a visual acuity of 20/200 or less or a peripheral 
field loss of 20 degrees or less. This change in the law would only 
affect a small percentage, estimated to be roughly 5 percent, of the 
13,000-plus veterans who are service-connected for loss of vision in 
one eye.

Yet, such a change would send a powerful signal to our Nation's 
blinded veterans that their hardships are not forgotten. Indeed, our 
Nation's blinded veterans face significant challenges in the labor 
market.

The National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research 
found that for individuals with visual impairments, to the extent they 
are unable to read letters, that the employment rate is only 30.8 
percent compared to 82.1 percent for people without disabilities. Given 
this employment trend, and the unique socioeconomic experiences of our 
veterans, it is even more urgent that Congress correct this one last 
inequity in the current paired organ statute and address the life-
altering impact of blindness on our veterans.

I want to mention also that in compliance with our pay-as-you-go 
rules, section 2 of H.R. 797 fully offsets the cost of additional 
vision benefits. It directs the Veterans Secretary and the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services to match and compare VA needs-based pension 
benefits data, parents' dependency and indemnity compensation data, 
health care services data and unemployment data with the National 
Directory of New Hires maintained by HHS for the purpose of determining 
eligibility for such benefits and services. According to the GAO, the 
General Accountability Office, such data-matching project would help 
reduce fraud and waste within the VA system as it determines 
eligibility and benefits to those veterans thought to be unemployable, 
but who are indeed working.

I would like to thank Chairman Filner, Subcommittee Chairman John 
Hall, as well as Congressman Boozman, Congressman Snyder and 
Congressman Miller for their unwavering support of this bill. I also 
want to thank the staff of the Veterans' Affairs Committee for helping 
advance this legislation.

H.R. 797 is a modest but very important step in restoring fair 
treatment to those blinded due to their service to our country and to 
further our commitment to them. Their sacrifices and service to this 
Nation should be matched by our desire to improve the quality of life 
for them and for their families.

I want to note that the Blinded Veterans Association has identified 
over 200 soldiers returning from Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom who are blinded in one eye due 
to service-related injuries and could perhaps in the future benefit 
from this legislation.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support H.R. 797.