# None
## `7b03b916119bdb64b109f8da977f6d52`
`Mr. DREIER — 19 June 2008`

---


Mr. DREIER. I want to begin for the second time today by expressing 
my great appreciation to my very good friend and colleague, the 
distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules, for yielding me the 
customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, it was interestingly enough on February 5 of 2007, 
February 5 of 2007, which is exactly 500 days ago--500 days ago 
President Bush made a request of this Congress to provide supplemental 
funding for our troops to ensure that they have all the tools necessary 
to prosecute these struggles going on in both Iraq and Afghanistan, 500 
days, a long period of time. But Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to say that 
I believe that we've finally gotten there.

As I listened carefully to the statement of my good friend from 
Rochester, the distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules, I have to 
say that I completely concurred with the first third of her statement 
in which she went through a very accurate description of exactly what 
this supplemental appropriations bill consists of. I could not disagree 
with her more on the second third of her presentation, and on the last 
part, I have sort of a mixed view.

When it comes to the first third, I will say that, again, I 
completely concur. This measure is designed to ensure that we get to 
our men and women in uniform the tools that they need, the resources 
that they need to continue this struggle. It ensures that the request 
and the directive by Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, raising very serious concern about the prospect of not being 
able to have the resources necessary is addressed.

She also in her remarks talked about the need to deal with the 
economic challenges that we face, and I completely concur. When we saw 
the largest increase in the unemployment rate in 22 years, a half a 
percent increase in the unemployment rate, it's clear that we want to 
ensure that those Americans who are very much in need are going to be 
able to have their concerns addressed by providing with that 20-work 
week requirement, which we've gone back to and which we supported in 
the early part of this decade in 2001 and 2002, that that requirement 
will


continue to be in place. So I wholeheartedly support that effort for 
the 13-week extension.

And she also talked about the need to ensure that we provide the 
resources for the veterans. For those men and women who have been 
engaged in this struggle and have come home, it is absolutely crucial 
that we do everything that we can to provide those very important 
resources for those brave and courageous men and women who have served 
in our Armed Forces.

Now, Mr. Speaker, when it came as I said to the second third of Ms. 
Slaughter's presentation, I could not disagree more vigorously. She 
referred to the term ''political progress'' as being one of posturing. 
Well, I've got to say if we look at the independent assessments that 
have been provided by even some of the most harsh critics, some of the 
harshest critics of this war, there has been acknowledgment that this 
surge has worked.

All one needs to do is this week look at lead articles in both the 
Washington Post, hardly an entity that has been sympathetic with this 
effort, and the Associated Press. Both of those entities have strongly 
come forward and pointed to the tremendous progress that has been made 
not only, not only militarily but the political progress which has been 
made as well.

And so I have to say, Mr. Speaker, I congratulate my colleagues who 
have worked in a bipartisan way. I see Mr. Obey here. He just testified 
before the Committee on Rules and talked about his concerns, and he 
talked about the need to make sure that we move forward.

Our Republican leader, Mr. Boehner, has also worked very, very 
diligently on this, and I have to say it's interesting as we mark today 
the 500th day since the President made this request for supplemental 
funding for our troops, it's fascinating that this all came together 
within what is just about a maybe 28-, 29-, 30-hour period of time.

So I think that it's important for us to get this done. It's 
important for us to address these concerns which include the much-
needed relief to those victims of the floods in the Midwest and the 
strengthening of the levees following Hurricane Katrina, and I believe 
that we have a wonderful indication of bipartisanship at its best here.

I am very pleased to finally take up a Rule for a Supplemental 
Appropriations bill that is based on bipartisan compromise that gets 
our troops the funding they need. And most important, it is a bill that 
the President can actually sign. I just wish we could have done this 
months ago.

Mr. Speaker, the request for supplemental funding for our troops came 
to us on February 5th of 2007--exactly 500 days ago. Since that time, 
we have heard hours of testimony from our military commanders, warning 
us in clear terms of the strains on our troops from the failure to fund 
them. For months, we have heard of impending layoffs of military 
contract employees. Of vital programs getting cut off or put on hold. 
The message was very clear: our armed forces in harm's way needed 
emergency funding in order to effectively continue their jobs.

But what did they get from the Democratic Leadership? Endless 
political posturing. Funding bills that were purely political 
documents, with no hope of being enacted. I find it very troubling that 
this partisan process could drag on for so long.

I find it very troubling that it took so long before there was an 
attempt at bipartisan negotiation to craft a good bill that provides 
for our troops and will be enacted into law.

After months of posturing, once the Democratic Majority finally 
reached across the aisle so that real progress could be made--how long 
did it take to reach a workable compromise? Mere hours. Once the 
dialogue began, Republicans and Democrats quickly came to a solution--a 
bill that funds our troops, while also addressing other priorities in a 
responsible way.

Today's underlying bill fully funds our armed forces. It will provide 
a new education benefit to veterans, without raising taxes. And it will 
extend unemployment insurance in these uncertain economic times, 
without eliminating key provisions to prevent fraud and abuse. This is 
a compromise that Republicans and Democrats can support, fulfilling our 
duty to the men and women who are in harm's way. This is a duty that we 
as a body must take far more seriously than the last few months have 
demonstrated.

When we are bogged down by the Democratic Majority's political 
gamesmanship, there are real-world consequences to these actions--or 
lack of action.

As we have heard from our military commanders over the past weeks and 
months exactly what these consequences are, one of the most troubling 
revelations came just last week. Adm. Mullen, chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, testified that our commanders had run out of funds to 
pay for development projects in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is perhaps 
the most perverse outcome of the Democratic Leadership's failure to 
fund our troops.

Regardless of where you stand on the war, we all know and agree that 
the fight against extremism demands more than a purely military 
solution. Our armed forces are working to provide a security 
environment that allows for development to take place--and they are 
succeeding. But if we squander this opportunity, we will never succeed 
in the long term. We will fail to win hearts and minds, and we will 
fail to provide an alternative to terror and extremism.

The people of Iraq and Afghanistan need to see that our fight is not 
against them. They need to see that we support democratic institutions 
and the good governance that ensures peace, liberty and opportunity. 
Without our development efforts, our military efforts can have no hope 
for sustainable success. By stonewalling the troops' funding, the 
Democratic Leadership not only shortchanges our troops, they are 
blocking our efforts to assist in the development of the foundation for 
lasting peace.

This is an unconscionable policy. Especially at the very time that 
the seeds of reconciliation are starting to take root. For months we 
have known that the surge has succeeded in reducing violence. Even the 
war's harshest critics have begrudgingly conceded that violence has 
been significantly reduced. But they called it an empty victory, saying 
that the improved security situation has failed to bring about 
political progress.

But today, that is changing. Monday's lead AP story was ''Iraqi 
violence down, confidence in government up.''

Tuesday's Washington Post announced ''Calm in Iraq Spurs Debate; 
Decline in Violence, Focus on Politics May Signal Turning Point.'' 
These are stories not just of reduced violence. They tell of the 
political reconciliation and progress that is now being made possible 
by the increased security. Iraqis are gaining faith in the Maliki 
government. And minority Sunni parliamentarians are heartened that a 
Shiite government would go after Shiite terrorists with the same zeal 
they go after Sunni terrorists.

Of course, this progress is fragile. Tuesday's terrible attack in 
Baghdad reminded us that while violence is diminishing overall, the 
danger of large-scale attacks remains very real. Furthermore, the 
political progress is still in its infancy. The Post story goes on to 
say ''analysts question whether the limited political accommodation 
among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds can be sustained if the U.S. withdraws 
its forces quickly.'' It points out that Iran would love to fill any 
void that we create, and that Iraqis fear today's calm is simply the 
calm before the storm. Clearly, our mission is not complete.

But demonstrable progress is being made. After years of terrible 
violence, setbacks and enormous challenges, many of us have become 
desensitized to any signs of progress and improvement. But they are 
there. The tragic part is that any delay in providing critical funding 
puts this fragile progress in jeopardy. Today's underlying bill is 
urgently needed. While I am deeply sorry it has taken this long, I am 
truly pleased to finally have a bipartisan bill that will deliver our 
troops the vital resources they need.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.