---
---

# ENERGY
## `7b093312b906090fd439e664ad91897a`
`Ms. LEE — 23 June 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Thank you for yielding, Mr. Towns. I thank you again for 
your leadership for bringing us together, but it's going to be through 
your leadership and others here on the floor tonight, our great 
Speaker, and bringing together Members of this body to make sure that 
we can have a bipartisan national energy plan.



I said earlier, and I hope we will always remember, that the jobs 
that are going to be created by the development of new, innovative 
energy independent industries, such as the green industry, will be 
millions of jobs for our young people. And we have to also remember, as 
I talked earlier, about the long-term public health consequences and 
the environmental concerns as we move toward energy independence and 
clean energy, green energy, wind, solar, all of the alternatives that 
will provide for a much better quality of health for all Americans, as 
well as for a cleaner environment.

So we do have a chance for a win-win-win. We can create millions of 
new jobs, we can create a trillion-dollar industry, we can create a 
cleaner environment, we can create livable communities throughout our 
country if we would just understand the moment we're in and be honest 
with the American people and be serious and do some of the things we 
talked about.

But also I think it's important, as I close, to also remember that 
the occupation of Iraq, the bombing and invasion of the country of Iraq 
that was a country that was not an imminent threat to the United States 
of America where there were no weapons of mass destruction, the havoc 
that we have wreaked on the country of Iraq and Iraqi civilians and our 
brave troops, this is a big part of why, when the war started, we were 
paying about $1.35 per gallon, $35 per barrel; now we are paying $4.50, 
soon to be $5 a gallon, close to $140 per barrel.

So we can not forget the economic impacts of this occupation of Iraq 
and remember that we have to include a demand that we end it and we 
bring our young men and women home.

Mr. Speaker, I would first like to thank Representative Towns for 
holding this special order tonight on an issue that is on the minds of 
so many of my constituents.

As the Democratic Majority works to reduce skyrocketing prices at the 
pump, we continue to face opposition from the Bush administration and 
my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who appear content to 
subsidize the Big Oil Company's record profits quarter after quarter 
rather than adopt real solutions to meet the energy needs of people 
across the Nation.

More specifically, we have proposed legislation that would invest in 
truly clean and renewable energy sources.

Our proposals would also bring much-needed accountability to the 
energy, markets in order to eliminate the price gouging and market 
manipulation and speculation that have inflated energy prices to record 
levels.

This week, we will also take up legislation to expand the use of 
public transit systems to save energy and reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions.

But, Mr. Speaker, in light of this growing energy crisis, I cannot 
help but also reflect upon the Bush administration's determination to 
squander our resources on the immoral occupation of Iraq that has 
directly contributed to the current economic downturn and the high gas 
prices the American people are seeing at the pump.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake, we are in the middle of the Bush Iraq 
recession. The economic hardship that Americans face today is the 
direct result of this administration's failed and flawed policies--at 
home and abroad.

When President Bush was signed into office in January of 2001, the 
price of oil was $23 a barrel and gasoline cost as little as $1.35 per 
gallon.

Now, after more than five years of bombing and bloodshed in Iraq, oil 
has topped $130 a barrel and gasoline is averaging more than $4 per 
gallon.

By some estimates, the war and continued occupation of Iraq could 
cost the United States more than $3 trillion. That's a $3 trillion bill 
for this administration's failed policies in Iraq that our children and 
grandchildren will be paying for years to come.

The American people recognize the toll this immoral occupation has 
taken on our economy. They are in dire need of assistance. Many face 
the impossible choice of buying food for their families or purchasing 
the gasoline they need to go to work.

If we want to see gas prices go down at the pump, one of the first, 
and most essential steps we can take, is to end to the war and 
occupation of Iraq.

We must also focus on transitioning our economy away from fossil 
fuels to the greener alternative fuels of the future. This will be a 
long term process that will affect communities throughout our Nation in 
different ways.

But it is important to note that as we continue to forge new 
frontiers to achieve energy independence and safeguard the environment, 
communities will face many complex environmental and public health 
challenges.

The drastic acceleration of greenhouse gas emissions has often been 
concentrated in low-income and minority communities, putting these 
vulnerable populations on the ''front lines'' of the fight against 
environmental degradation and global climate change.

The communities in my district face the severe consequences of 
pollution, urban sprawl, and enviromnental injustice--which harshly 
affects people of color and low-income families.

Sadly, this epidemic is hitting our children the hardest. Back home 
in my district, children growing up in West Oakland are seven times 
more likely to be hospitalized for asthma than the average child in 
California.

None of us can afford to take this lightly. The health of our 
community and our neighbors affects all of us.

As the Representative of California's 9th Congressional District, I 
would also like to take a moment to recognize the role that 
California's East Bay is playing at the forefront of the green jobs and 
green industry movement.

One of the most exciting and inclusive solutions to the many issues 
facing environmental health is the possibility afforded to us by 
promoting green jobs training and the growth of the green economy in 
America.

A true green economy, one that is sincere in its mission and deeply 
rooted in local communities and businesses, can provide innovative 
answers to many of the problems our environment faces.

Green jobs provide pathways out of poverty for those most affected by 
environmental injustice, namely minorities and our urban youth.

To that end, my office has been working closely with the Ella Baker 
Center, and the Apollo Alliance in my district, to expand green jobs 
and green job training programs.

I am also working with the mayor of Oakland on a new initiative to 
support the development of green model cities that focus on economic 
development through green job training academies and to create a 
national green institute to serve as a clearinghouse for the green 
movement.

While we are convincing long-standing businesses to go green and new 
businesses to start green, we must ensure that we are also funding 
opportunities to train our local youth and qualify our existing work 
force to be able to work in these industries.

I want to end by saying what so many of us deeply understand: over 
the last eight years the Bush administration has been openly hostile to 
the environment.

His administration has repeatedly cut funding for the EPA and put 
forth disastrous environmental policies that have rolled back 
environmental protections and undermined the safety and well being of 
our Nation and our planet.

Most recently, the Bush administration has threatened to veto the 
House passed H.R. 5351, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation 
Tax Act of 2008.

This legislation makes critical investments in clean, renewable 
energy and energy efficiency that will create hundreds of thousands of 
new jobs and help to maintain the United States' position as a leader 
in innovation as we move toward true energy independence.

I urge my colleagues to help bring an end to policies that place 
corporate profits ahead of the long-term interest of public health and 
the environment, and instead work toward a greener and more prosperous 
future for the United States and the world.