# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2701, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION
## `7b0983d7f86152cd2b80b46f7efa5358`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.



Mr. Speaker, the resolution, as announced by our Clerk, provides for 
consideration of H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
fiscal year 2010, under a structured rule. The resolution waives all 
points of order against consideration of the bill except those arising 
under clause 9 of rule XXI. The resolution provides 1 hour of debate on 
the bill, makes in order only those amendments printed in the rule, and 
the resolution waives all points of order against such amendments 
except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI.

The resolution provides one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions and provides that the Chair may entertain a motion to rise 
only if offered by the Chair of the Intelligence Committee or his 
designee and provides that the Chair may not entertain a motion to 
strike the enacting words of the bill.

The resolution provides for a motion to consider the Senate bill and 
substitute its text with the text of H.R. 2701 as passed by the House. 
The resolution waives all points of order against the Senate bill and 
its consideration. It also makes in order a motion that the House 
insist on its amendment and request a conference with the Senate and 
waives all points of order against such motion.

The resolution waives a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a 
two-thirds vote for same-day consideration of a report from the Rules 
Committee through the legislative day of Friday, February 26. It also 
permits the Speaker to consider motions to suspend the rules through 
the legislative day of Friday, February 26. The Speaker shall consult 
with the minority leader on the designation of any matter under this 
authority.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the rule providing for 
consideration of H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010.

As vice chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence, I know that the intelligence community is the first line 
of defense against terrorists, proliferators of weapons of mass 
destruction, and other rogue elements who wish to do us and our allies 
harm here at home and across the globe.

This legislation provides policy guidance for 16 agencies of the 
intelligence community while also improving oversight and helping to 
prevent disastrous consequences that faulty intelligence and a 
misinformed Congress can have on national security.

Mr. Speaker, I have the honor and privilege of meeting many of our 
intelligence professionals in over 50 countries around the world during 
my oversight travel as a member of the Intelligence Committee. I cannot 
overstate how much I and the members of the committee, and I am sure 
all Members of this body, appreciate them and are humbled by their 
service. Their dedication and commitment became more evident when seven 
Americans made the ultimate sacrifice during a terrorist attack in 
Khost, Afghanistan, this past December.

But the attempted terrorist attack on Northwest Flight 253 on 
Christmas Day was a startling reminder to all Americans that in spite 
of our best efforts we are still under attack, and we still have much 
work to do to get it right. The constant threat from violent extremists 
reinforces that now more than ever, and we must give the intelligence 
community the resources and flexibility it needs to thwart the 
continuing and emerging threats to United States national security.

For the last 4 years, our country has gone without an intelligence 
authorization bill. I find it very distressing that the House 
Intelligence Committee, which was created to ensure proper oversight 
and accountability of our intelligence community, has worked diligently 
every year to pass a bill but has not seen one signed into law in 
recent years.


As we have seen, the intelligence community is in dire need of 
independent oversight. Sadly, when we created the Director of National 
Intelligence, we did not create an independent Inspector General. This 
bill would remedy that flaw by making clear that the Inspector General 
does not serve at the whim of the Director of National Intelligence and 
also has an independent responsibility to keep Congress informed.

Some of my colleagues on the other aisle have argued against the 
creation of a new Inspector General. I would respectfully disagree with 
their assessment. It is clear that this provision will help to 
streamline and coordinate oversight.

This bill also contains a provision in the manager's amendment 
providing sensible reforms to the Gang of Eight process. As vice 
chairman of the committee, I have seen that process abused in the past, 
and I am glad that we are taking a careful step towards reform. I 
believe that the administration has a statutory and constitutional duty 
to keep members of the Intelligence Committee, all members of the 
Intelligence Committee, fully informed on certain intelligence matters. 
Therefore, by reforming this process, the bill enhances transparency 
and bolsters Congress' capacity to conduct important oversight.

The bill also clarifies the responsibility of the Director of 
National Intelligence to cooperate with GAO investigations initiated by 
Congress. GAO can provide the Congress with valuable expertise and 
assist with oversight functions, especially in areas of auditing and 
security clearance reforms.

I have stated time and time again that the intelligence community is 
not diverse enough to do its job of stealing and analyzing foreign 
countries' secrets. Diversity is a mission imperative. When I came on 
this committee, I came on after the legendary Lou Stokes, who served on 
this committee and advanced many measures that are in law today dealing 
with intelligence. My good friend and my good friend from California's 
good friend, Julian Dixon, who has departed life, carried that banner, 
as did Sanford Bishop when he was on this committee.

I, along with many other members of the committee, particularly 
Chairman Reyes, Anna Eshoo and others countless throughout the years, 
Jane Harman included, we have fought for continuing diversity on this 
committee. We need people who blend in, speak the language, and 
understand the cultures in the countries that we are targeting.

As my colleagues on the committee and I have mentioned on many 
occasions, when the intelligence leadership comes to testify, we don't 
see a lot of diversity at the table. We don't see enough women at the 
table. It is time for the community to get serious about improving 
diversity for the sake of our national security.

A real diversity effort means more than just staging recruitment 
drives at colleges with a lot of black students or Latino students. 
Diversity means hiring, hiring more Arab Americans. It means hiring 
more Iranian Americans, more Pakistani Americans, more Chinese 
Americans and more Korean Americans. If the intelligence community is 
to succeed in its global mission, it must have a global face.

I have offered an amendment on diversity in the intelligence 
community to the underlying bill. My amendment contains a requirement 
for the Director of National Intelligence to report to Congress on a 
comprehensive plan to improve diversity in the intelligence community. 
It calls on the Director to report on specific implementation plans for 
each element agency in the community. It also requires information on 
plans to improve minority retention, not only at the junior and mid-
grade levels, but at the senior and management levels as well.

Finally, it requires that the Director of National Intelligence 
report to the congressional Intelligence Committees on the efforts 
being made with diversity training and how improvement in diversity 
will be measured. This amendment, along with many other important 
provisions in this bill, will make our intelligence community more 
effective, more efficient, and more accountable.

Given the immense security challenges facing our Nation, it is vital 
that Congress pass this legislation so that we may continue to fulfill 
our commitment to the safety and well-being of the great American 
people.

I reserve the balance of my time.