---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `7b0f8c813ad5efd3cde934c07fff8315`
`Mrs. JONES of Ohio — 22 October 2007`

---


Mrs. JONES of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, over the past 9 months, the 
Congressional Black Caucus has been at the forefront of many major 
issues here in Congress, from raising the minimum wage, to the Don Imus 
debacle, to the upcoming Southwick nomination vote that will be taken 
up in the Senate this week. We have been at the forefront of raising 
the issue about the need to cover 10 million children under SCHIP. And 
we've been at the forefront as well raising issues with regard to the 
war in Iraq and the number of people who have been killed, as well as 
the recent Jena Six situation.

Tonight, however, we will be focusing in on the Southwick nomination. 
And as we focus in on that nomination, we always remember that for 
people of color the court has been the place of last resort. Many of 
the opportunities that we've had to raise issues with regard to school 
desegregation, civil rights, economic opportunities, equal employment 
opportunity, have come through the courts. And it is that reason that 
we are particularly raising our voices with regard to this nomination.

I am joined this evening by my colleague and good friend, the Chair 
of the Homeland Security Committee, Mr. BENNIE THOMPSON. And Judge 
Southwick, the nominee, actually is a resident of Mississippi and being 
considered for that seat which oversees Mississippi and several other 
States where the population of people of color is significant.

I yield such time as he may consume to my colleague and good friend, 
the Chair of the Homeland Security Committee, BENNIE THOMPSON.