---
---

# MAJOR GENERAL DOUGLAS BURNETT, FLORIDA'S ADJUTANT GENERAL, RETIRES  AFTER 47 YEARS IN UNIFORM
## `7b11cb7eef30909077dff742da1e3f9a`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 23 June 2010`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Madam Speaker, our state of Florida and our 
nation will lose one of our nation's uniformed heroes Friday when 
Florida Adjutant General, Major General Douglas Burnett, retires after 
serving our state as Adjutant General for almost nine years.

In fact his 47 years, four months and 12 days in uniform make him our 
nation's longest serving Air Force officer. That is correct, General 
Burnett led the Florida National Guard while wearing a blue Air Force 
uniform. He was the first Air Guard officer selected by a Governor to 
lead Florida's National and Air Guard.

General Burnett led his troops with passion and compassion. He rose 
through the ranks of a life-long National Guard career, beginning as an 
enlisted aircraft radio repairman in 1963 and securing his officer's 
commission and flight wings in 1969. Throughout his career, he served 
at all levels of the Florida Guard, including five tours as Assistant 
Adjutant General Air and Commander of the Florida Air Guard.

Florida Governor Jeb Bush recognized this strong and steady record of 
leadership when just two months after one of our nation's darkest days, 
September 11, 2001, he selected General Burnett to serve as Florida's 
Adjutant General. It was a tall task for any officer but the right task 
for this General.

General Burnett quickly established the respect and confidence of his 
troops as he over saw a force of 11,000 soldiers and airmen who 
deployed to two wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, responded to 14 
hurricanes, five dangerous years of forest fires, untold tornadoes, and 
even a mission to secure the U.S.-Mexico border. In fact, the current 
deployment of Florida Guardsmen in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom is the largest deployment of Florida troops since World War II.

Despite this hectic pace of operations over the past nine years, 
General Burnett never lost site of his mission to ensure the readiness 
of his troops and availability of the equipment they would need to 
carry out their missions safely and successfully. First and foremost, 
though, was the morale of his guardsmen and their families. As he told 
the Florida Air National Guard publication The Eagle's Eye, ''I felt 
that when you get to know the people and you get to know their mission 
and you get to know their needs, you can lead them better. I really dug 
in to know the culture, the needs.''

Following my remarks, Madam Speaker, I will include the full story 
about General Burnett entitled ''A Leader's Legacy'' written by Master 
Sergeant Thomas Kielbasa because it captures the essence of a leader 
who carries out his duties equally focused on his mission and the needs 
of his troops.

My wife Beverly and I know of General Burnett's commitment to 
standing up for the needs of his troops. We took many of his calls and 
e-mails in the middle of the night when others tried to deploy his 
troops with insufficient equipment, when they left his troops sitting 
on a tarmac without an aircraft waiting to return home, or when they 
readied his troops for deployment by putting them in inferior housing. 
Together we solved those problems but only because General Burnett had 
the courage to stand up for his troops and their families.

As a career guardsman, General Burnett knew that there is no 
distinction between the abilities and professionalism of guard and 
active duty troops. And he always made sure that our nation's military 
leadership knew that and respected the special skills of our Citizen 
Soldiers.

Throughout his life in uniform, General Burnett served side by side 
with his wife Judy who shared his commitment to taking care of the 
needs of his soldiers and particularly their families. She understood 
the stress of long deployments on spouses and children. This included 
financial and emotional strains.

Madam Speaker, Major General Douglas Burnett has raised the bar to a 
new level when it comes to leadership. He has devoted his life to 
securing our state and securing our nation. He has helped shepherd us 
through some of our most difficult and dangerous times and done it with 
great skill. He has also trained his replacement, Major General Emmett 
R. Titshaw, Jr., well as this Air Guardsmen will step right in prepared 
to lead Florida's troops wherever their mission takes them.

Our nation owes a tremendous debt of gratitude to Major General 
Douglas Burnett for his lifetime of service to our state and our nation 
and to the cause of freedom and liberty. He has followed in the 
greatest tradition of all those who have worn our nation's uniform from 
the Minutemen, our nation's earliest citizen soldiers, to the heroes 
who continue to carryout the international war on terrorism.

In behalf of the people of Florida and the United States of America, 
and all those General Burnett has served with and led these past 47 
years, thank you for a job well done.













 [From The Eagle's Eye]

 A Leader's Legacy: Major General Douglas Burnett, Adjutant General of 








Florida, Reflects on 47 Years of Service











(By Master Sgt. Thomas Kielbasa)




 St. Augustine, FL (June 17, 2010).--It's been a long, fast 


 flight for Douglas Burnett. His career took off on a sunny 


 morning nearly 50 years ago when he was a young Airman 


 climbing into the cockpit of an F-102 fighter jet to repair a 


 pilot's radio.



 In what felt like just a few heartbeats to the Florida 


 Guardsman and aspiring jet pilot, his career sped by like a 


 supersonic fighter.



 Now the 65-year-old major general and current Adjutant 


 General of Florida knows his 47 years of military service are 


 nearly over.




 On June 26 Maj. Gen. Burnett will retire from the Florida 


 National Guard, but he clearly remembers that day he first 


 sat in a fighter jet and decided to make a lifetime 


 commitment to the National Guard.



 ''It seems like yesterday,'' the general said during a 


 recent interview at his home in St. Augustine. ''I came back 


 from tech school as an electronics specialist and I went out 


 onto the flight line to repair a radio. I had to get into the 


 cockpit to make sure it worked, and there was something about 


 it that was bigger than anything I had seen in my life. Just 


 sitting in that airplane . . . that was just a really big 


 deal.''



 That moment in 1963 jumpstarted the young Burnett's career 


 as an Air Force officer and fighter pilot, and when that 


 career ends after 47 years, four months and 12 days, it will 


 set a record making him the longest serving Air Force 


 officer.















 A career takes off




 A native of Jacksonville, Fla., Burnett grew up interested 


 in electronics and developed a strong respect for the 


 military that led him to enlist in the Florida Air National 


 Guard. Shortly after high school he attended basic training 


 at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas, and then the U.S. Air 


 Force Electronics School at Keesler Air Force Base, Miss. For 


 the next six years he served at the 125th Fighter Group in 


 Jacksonville as an aircraft radio repairman.



 ''Being around folks in the Air Guard was just a joy to 


 me,'' he recollected. ''I was into drag racing at the time; 


 the guys that had the best looking cars and the fastest cars 


 were in the Air Guard as well.''



 With his sights set on being a fighter pilot and an 


 officer, he earned a degree in Business Administration from 


 the University of Southern Mississippi and received a direct 


 commission in 1969. After fighter pilot training he was no 


 longer just dreaming of flying the F-102 Delta Dagger, but 


 was actually a full-time alert pilot and later a commercial 


 pilot for Pan American World Airways and United Airlines.



 After holding several key positions in the Florida Air 


 National Guard and accumulating more than 20,000 flying hours 


 in everything from the F-102 Delta Dagger to the 


 C-130 Hercules, Burnett was selected as the Adjutant General 


 of Florida in late 2001.















 Engaged leadership




 For the first time in the history of the Florida National 


 Guard an Air Guard officer had been chosen to lead the more 


 than 12,000 Soldiers and Airmen in the state. This broke the 


 tradition of only Army general officers serving as The 


 Adjutant General (TAG) of Florida.



 ''I had spent many years in the Florida Air National Guard 


 and I knew my service--the 'blue suit' side--pretty well,'' 


 the general explained. ''As the new TAG I knew I had to get 


 knee-deep into Soldier things--right down to the equipment 


 our Soldiers used--everything.''



 Burnett admitted he had a learning curve to familiarize 


 himself with every aspect of the Army National Guard; he 


 studied everything from basic Infantry tactics to even 


 learning the proper usage of the word ''Hooah.''



 ''I learned the Army language,'' he said. ''It's almost 


 like being bilingual . . . you come to appreciate the Army's 


 culture, which is the rugged business of 'fieldcraft.' ''



 Throughout the next nine years Maj. Gen. Burnett would be 


 seen jumping into a foxhole next to a young private to test a 


 .50-calibre machine gun, looking under the hood of a mud-


 speckled Humvee, and even donning a Kevlar helmet to watch 


 engineers rig explosives. Soldiers throughout the state would 


 stare wide-eyed as the two-star general approached them, 


 asked about their jobs or families, and discussed the 


 similarities between the Army and the Air Force.



 ''There are a lot of similarities,'' Burnett said. ''That 


 crew chief on the flight line is just as committed to working 


 in tough conditions as that Army Infantry Soldier who is out 


 there in the foxhole and crawling through the mud.''



 He admitted that some people might call his leadership 


 style ''micromanagement,'' but he calls it ''engaged 


 leadership.''



 ''I felt that when you get to know the people and you get 


 to know their mission and you get to know their needs, you 


 can lead them better,'' he explained. ''I really dug in to 


 know the culture, the needs.''

















Wartime TAG




 When he assumed the role of Adjutant General in November 


 2001, Maj. Gen. Burnett knew he was taking charge during an 


 unprecedented time in the Florida National Guard. The Sept. 


 11 terrorist attacks were fresh wounds on the American 


 psyche, and no one could exactly predict how that would 


 affect those serving in uniform; during the next nine years 


 the ''Global War on Terrorism'' would draw the talents of 


 more than 11,000 Florida Army National Guard Soldiers and 


 Airmen to locations and combat zones around the world.



 ''Not only were we engaged in combat operations in two wars 


 in Afghanistan and Iraq and other places in harm's way, but 


 we responded to 14 hurricanes, five firefighting seasons, 


 major tornadoes, and we've done it all at the same time,'' 


 the general noted. ''And while we were doing this we also 


 sent Florida Guardsmen to the U.S.-Mexico border security 


 mission called 'Operation Jump Start.' ''



 Burnett said this showed the Department of Defense, the 


 Departments of the Army and Air Force, and the National Guard 


 Bureau, that ''Florida can fight major wars, respond to 


 natural disasters and still perform domestic security 


 operations at the same time. The nation has a right to expect 


 us to step up in all three venues.''



 But as the Florida National Guard moved into the uncharted 


 territory of a 21st century battlefield, the general met the 


 challenges and pressures of being a ''wartime TAG.''



 ''I can think of many occasions that kept me up at night,'' 


 Burnett admitted. ''The rapid deployment of the 53rd Brigade 


 to Iraq in 2002 was one of the roughest periods, because we 


 literally called Soldiers the day after Christmas and in five 


 or six days we were moving them to Fort Stewart.''



 He said the biggest question he kept asking himself was 


 whether the more than 1,500 Florida National Guard Soldiers 


 were trained enough for combat operations against Saddam 


 Hussein's forces.



 ''I was concerned if we had the right weapons,'' he 


 explained. ''For example, body armor: we did not start with 


 the Interceptor body armor that the Active Duty had. And we 


 didn't know if we were going to have it until right before we 


 went through that berm between Jordan and Iraq. I was very 


 concerned we weren't going to have it.''



 Thanks to support by congressional leaders, National Guard 


 Soldiers and Airmen throughout Florida were equipped and 


 ready, Burnett noted.



 ''Our congressional delegation has been magnificent in our 


 support of the Florida National Guard, particularly in the 


 funding of new equipment,'' he said. ''The Constitution says 


 that the Congress will equip the Guard, and they've done 


 that. Congressman C.W. Bill Young has been an absolute hero 


 in leading the charge for the modernization of equipment and 


 facilities for the Florida National Guard. Our senators and 


 the rest of the delegation have been superb as well.''



 Later in 2003 uncertainty about the redeployment dates of 


 the Florida Infantry units serving in Iraq brought a storm of 


 media coverage and outcry from concerned family members. The 


 general's answer was to address the concerns of the families 


 and the public directly during a series of unprecedented and 


 personal ''town hall meetings.''



 ''Initially our Soldiers believed they would only be gone 


 for six months,'' Maj. Gen. Burnett recollected. ''As it 


 became obvious they would spend a year of 'boots on the 


 ground' our families were frightened and they were 


 frustrated. I felt the only way to get the message to them 


 was to do it personally.''



 In a little over a week he participated in ten meetings 


 from South Florida to the Panhandle, meeting with family 


 groups and letting them know why the Soldiers would continue 


 to serve in the combat zone.



 ''It was a pick-up game at that point; things were changing 


 daily,'' he said. ''I was working on behalf of the governor 


 to carry facts to these families. And it was a very difficult 


 mission because the senior leaders in Iraq were telling 


 Guardsmen that they were going to be going home at the six-


 month point. And the information I was getting from the 


 Pentagon was that we were going to be there for a year. I had 


 to go out and deliver that news, and it was very difficult to 


 look these families in the eyes and tell them their Soldiers 


 would be gone another six months.''









 ''Not your grandfather's National Guard''




 The extensive deployments for the Soldiers and Airmen of 


 the Florida National Guard after 2001 demanded a commitment 


 to a tenet that the Adjutant General addressed throughout his 


 career: Readiness.



 ''Readiness and high states of readiness are confidence 


 builders,'' he explained. ''These successes ensure 


 (Department of Defense) support and Congressional funding. 


 You just can't operate a National Guard with anything less 


 than the highest standards.''



 Burnett's mantra of the Guard moving from ''a force in 


 reserve to a force in being'' was echoed throughout the 


 Florida National Guard during his tenure and evidenced each 


 time an Army or Air unit left for deployment. He said Active 


 Duty counterparts and Florida citizens deserved to know how 


 ready and reliable the Florida National Guard actually was, 


 especially during high-profile missions like Operations Noble 


 Eagle, Iraqi Freedom, or Enduring Freedom.



 ''I think we've been able to transcend a lot of concerns 


 about Guard readiness in the past, because over seven years 


 of combat operations in Afghanistan and Iraq they have found 


 the Guard highly capable,'' he said.



 The general pointed to high ratings by the Florida Air 


 National Guard on Operational Readiness Inspections, and by 


 the Florida Army National Guard on Command Logistics Review 


 inspections, as proof of this.



 ''That's the way to send the signal that we 'get it','' he 


 said. ''This is not your grandfather's National Guard.



 ''I really hope the commitment to excellence that I've 


 tried to instill, has become a mindset in our Soldiers and 


 Airmen,'' Burnett added. ''If you don't want to be part of 


 the best National Guard state in America, you probably don't 


 want to serve here. And I can assure you that almost all of 


 our people feel that way. We have fighter pilots wanting to 


 join the 125th Fighter Wing because of its high standards of 


 excellence. We have young people that stay with us on the 


 Army side because they want to be on a winning team. And we 


 are a winning team.''
















Legacy of people




 When he entered the military during the heyday of the Cold 


 War, Airman Burnett was




 working with equipment and aircraft that now can probably 


 only be seen in military museums. Almost half a century later 


 the Guard's equipment has changed, but the high level of 


 commitment and service found in its people has remained.



 According to the Adjutant General, he believes his own 


 commitment to those members of the Florida National Guard's 


 enlisted and officer corps will serve as his lasting legacy.



 ''I would hope that my biggest legacy is that I was a 


 leader who was engaged in the full spectrum of our missions, 


 but was mostly concerned about people,'' he said. ''Because, 


 it is the people that make the National Guard what it is. 


 We've always done the missions even though we haven't always 


 had the best equipment. We've got good equipment now, but 


 it's the same great people we've always had.''



 Burnett lauded the non-commissioned officers (NCOs) he has 


 served with during his long career, noting that while their 


 professionalism has remained high, they have become 


 increasingly ''technically and professionally proficient'' 


 over the years.



 ''I still hold in awe the NCOs that led us during the 60s, 


 the 70s and the 80s; they were absolutely astounding,'' he 


 explained. ''We've always had strong NCOs, but they've 


 stepped up, they're taking on more responsibility earlier, 


 they're exerting strong leadership skills earlier.''



 He noted that as a senior leader he always tried to focus 


 his own energy on meeting the needs of the junior enlisted 


 and junior officers.



 ''I've been concerned with making sure our leaders 


 understand how important it is to reach out to every 


 individual Guardsman so that they know how important we think 


 they are,'' he said. ''And they are very important to us.''



 The general and his wife Judy were also ever-present 


 supporters of the Guard's expanding Family Readiness 


 initiatives; whether it was at a unit deployment or a 


 welcome-home ceremony, the Burnetts could be found meeting 


 with Soldiers, Airmen, and their Families.



 ''I've been honored to serve alongside some unbelievable 


 people, both Army and Air,'' he said. ''I've tried to shift 


 our focus from simply taking care of Soldiers and Airmen to 


 actually meeting our service members' expectations. Let me 


 tell you, there's a big difference between taking care of 


 Guardsmen and meeting their expectations. You have to think a 


 little more and you certainly have to work a lot harder.''
















 Final approach




 Each generation of Guardsmen has a leader that represents 


 its period of service, and those Florida Soldiers and Airmen 


 who served during the first decade of the 21st Century will 


 see Burnett as this generation's leader. After Maj. Gen. 


 Burnett hangs up his uniform for the final time, he will 


 stand among those leaders who helped carry on a tradition of 


 military service in Florida that stretches back to 1565.



 ''I'm going to miss the people,'' Burnett said. ''That is 


 what this business is all about; being around Guardsmen has 


 been my life.''



 He said he won't miss the status or the rank that went with 


 being the Adjutant General, but rather will miss wearing his 


 military uniform and interacting with his fellow Guard 


 members.



 ''I'll miss wearing the uniform because it identifies you 


 with people who have a similar commitment to something bigger 


 than yourself,'' he added. ''For me the National Guard has 


 been my passion. I loved to fly, but being able to make a 


 difference and make the lives of our people better is a 


 passion that has consumed me. That is what I'll miss.''



 As his 47-year-long sortie comes to an end, and he pushes 


 back the cockpit canopy of an historic career one last time, 


 Douglas Burnett will know the flight lasted just a few 


 seconds--nearly 1.5 billion seconds.



 And the Florida National Guard is grateful for every second 


 he has given to our state and nation. Well done, sir . . . 


 well done!
