# HONORING THE 28TH INFANTRY DIVISION FOR SERVING AND PROTECTING THE  UNITED STATES
## `7b1278e493ca86129fd32b708a2d4995`
`Mr. COLE of Oklahoma — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. COLE of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 390, as 
amended, which honors the 28th Infantry Division for serving and 
protecting the United States of America.

I am honored to pay tribute to the current and former members of the 
28th Infantry Division, the Keystone Division, who have steadfastly and 
courageously defended and served this great country on our own shores 
and in distant lands.



With roots that date back to the Continental Army, the 28th Infantry 
Division fought valiantly in several campaigns during World War I, 
earning the title ''Iron Division'' from General John J. Pershing.

Again, during World War II, victory was won in hard-fought battles in 
places like the Huertgen Forest on the western front and in the Battle 
of the Bulge because of the tenacity and the perseverance of the brave 
soldiers of the 28th Infantry Division. These battles earned them 
another title, Bloody Buckets, this time given to them by German forces 
because of the fury of the 28th Infantry Division assaults.

More recently, the 28th Infantry Division has participated in 
Operation Desert Storm, deployed troops to oust the Taliban in 
Afghanistan, and has played a vital role in the successes of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. Closer to home, Mr. Speaker, the Division has responded 
in the aftermath of natural disasters to provide aid and comfort to 
fellow Americans during hurricanes, blizzards and devastating floods.

It is important to note that the soldiers of the Division have 
distinguished themselves by earning 10 Medals of Honor, four Legions of 
Merit, and 258 Silver Stars for their outstanding service to the 
Nation.

Sadly, Mr. Speaker, the valiant service of the 28th Infantry Division 
has not come without enormous sacrifice. Throughout its history, the 
members of the Division have paid the price to ensure our freedom. 
Still today there are over 2,600 soldiers from the 28th Infantry 
Division missing in action in both world wars of the 20th century.

Mr. Speaker, if I did not also pay tribute today to the incredible 
families of these brave soldiers, who waited at home while their loved 
ones answered our Nation's call, I would be remiss. The entire Nation 
owes the soldiers and veterans of the 28th Infantry Division and their 
families a debt of gratitude. We are all proud of their service. 
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge all Members to support this 
resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.