---
---

# HONORING COLONEL PAUL J. KENNEDY
## `7b15061860853bab2d64f2b3904df2a6`
`Mr. DREIER — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, today I would like to honor Colonel Paul 
J. Kennedy. Colonel Kennedy is taking command of the Second Marine 
Regiment, Second Marine Division, Camp Lejeune North Carolina on July 
17, 2008 after serving two years as the Director of the Marine Corps 
House Liaison Office.


Since June 2006, he has very ably served as a direct link between the 
Marine Corps and the House of Representatives, providing Members of 
this body the information necessary to effectively equip, maintain and 
support the United States Marine Corps, and ultimately provide and 
ensure the nation's security. I know that everyone of my colleagues who 
had the pleasure of working with him shares the deep respect I have 
come to hold for Colonel Kennedy, and has trusted his straightforward 
and dependable assistance. His candor and knowledge have been key in 
maintaining superb relationships on both sides of the Potomac. He has 
demonstrated a unique ability to translate the language of the House of 
Representatives to the language of the Marine Corps and vice versa, 
enabling him to provide Members of Congress with a keen understanding 
of the issues that affect the men and women who wear a Marine uniform.

Over the course of two very busy years, Colonel Kennedy successfully 
planned, coordinated and escorted over 30 international and domestic 
Congressional and Staff Delegations. I had the opportunity to work 
closely with the Colonel on many of these Congressional Delegations as 
part of the House Democracy Assistance Commission, as we have worked to 
strengthen legislatures in emerging and re-emerging democracies around 
the world. HDAC works directly with the Members and staff of these 
institutions, and our Members must travel to places as diverse as 
Afghanistan, Mongolia and East Timor to conduct these programs. The 
technical and logistical support he provided in traveling often to 
remote or dangerous regions ensured that our delegations were always 
conducted safely; professionally and effectively, and afforded us the 
ability to focus entirely on the quality of our programs with these 
legislatures in burgeoning democracies. But just as important were his 
insights into conflict and post-conflict regions, based on his first-
hand observations from the field. They were an invaluable asset to our 
delegations.

Colonel Kennedy also took a number of delegations to Iraq and 
Afghanistan, helping to educate Members of Congress on the successes 
and challenges facing our service men and women who are currently in 
harm's way. Due to his professionalism, dedication, experience and 
knowledge, Colonel Kennedy became the most sought-after military escort 
for delegations traveling into Central Command. He has made lasting 
contributions to the House of Representatives. I wish the Colonel the 
very best as he pursues other duties within the Marine Corps. He will 
be missed tremendously.

Colonel Kennedy's 23 years of service have included: Executive 
Officer of a Weapons Company; Instructor at The Basic School and the 
Infantry Officer Course in Quantico, Virginia; a Weapons Company 
Commander and Battalion Operations Officer in Camp Pendleton; 
Recruiting Station Commander in San Francisco, California; Plans 
Officer for Pre-Operation Iraqi Freedom and Plans/Future Operations 
Officer for the First Marine Division during Operation Iraqi Freedom; 
Battalion Commander for Operation Iraqi Freedom II; and Director of the 
House of Representatives, Marine Corps Liaison Office. Colonel Kennedy 
has received the Legion of Merit with combat ''V'', Bronze Star, two 
Meritorious Service Medals, two Navy and Marine Corps Commendation 
Medals and the Combat Action Ribbon.
