---
---

# END THE OCCUPATION IN IRAQ
## `7b1525fd9d75c21ca90f890d4f970236`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, yesterday I began to circulate a plan 
among Members of Congress to establish a path towards the United States 
exiting Iraq.

As we know, the administration is prepared to escalate the conflict. 
They intend to increase troop levels to an unprecedented number without 
establishing an ending date.

It is important for Congress to oppose the troop surge, but that is 
not enough. We must respond powerfully to take steps to end the 
occupation, close U.S. bases in Iraq and bring our troops home. These 
steps are necessary preconditions to the U.S. extricating itself from 
Iraq through the establishment of an international security and 
peacekeeping force.



Congress, as a coequal branch of government, has a responsibility 
here. Congress, under Article I, Section 8 of the United States 
Constitution, has the war-making power. Congress appropriates funds for 
the war. Congress does not dispense with its obligation to the American 
people simply by opposing a troop surge in Iraq.

It is simply not credible to maintain that one opposes the war and 
yet continues to fund it. And this contradiction runs as a deep fault 
line through our politics, undermining public trust in the political 
process and in those elected to represent the people.

If you oppose the war, then don't vote to fund it. If you have money 
which can be used to bring the troops home or to prosecute the war, do 
not say you want to bring the troops home while appropriating money to 
keep them fighting a war in Iraq that cannot be won militarily.

That is why the administration should be notified now that Congress 
will not approve of the appropriations request of up to $160 billion in 
the spring for the purposes of continuing the occupation and the war. 
Continuing to fund the war is not a plan. It would represent a 
continuation of a disaster.

In addition to halting funding of the war, a parallel process is 
needed, and I have offered such a comprehensive plan to this Congress. 
And I am asking Members of Congress for their thoughtful consideration.

I would like to review some of the aspects of that plan. First and 
foremost, the United States must announce that it will end the 
occupation, close military bases and withdraw. The insurgency has been 
fueled by the occupation and the prospect of long-term presence as 
indicated by the building of permanent bases. A U.S. declaration of an 
intent to withdraw the troops and close bases will dampen the 
insurgency which has been inspired to resist colonization and fight 
invaders and those who help support U.S. policy.

Furthermore, this will provide an opening where parties within Iraq 
and in the region can set the stage for negotiations towards peaceful 
settlement.

Now, it is urgent that Congress take a stand now to take a new 
direction. The President last night articulated a plan for more war. He 
will have our troops fighting door to door with greater intensity. We 
will be in Iraq longer.

But there is another thing the President did, and this is another 
reason why it is urgent for us to act. This President, and I want 
everyone here to listen very carefully to this: This President is 
setting the stage for a war against Iran. We all know this. It is not a 
secret. He is talking about moving an aircraft carrier into the region, 
giving Patriot missiles to our allies in the region. He has rattled the 
saber with respect to Iran. He doesn't want to talk to their 
government; doesn't want to deal with Syria.

This President has only one talent, and that is the talent to make 
war and an illegal war at that, I might add.

Congress has to assume its power again to defend the American people, 
to defend the international community.



This administration is on the rampage. That the President, at the 
delicate condition of things in Iraq, would rattle the saber against 
Iran shows you the extent to which the administration has no intention 
of working to achieve peace. That is why Congress has to push now for 
the administration to end the occupation, close military bases and 
withdraw.

We have to announce that we are going to use the existing funds to 
bring the troops home and bring the equipment home. We have to order a 
simultaneous return of all U.S. contractors to the United States and 
turn over all contracting work to the Iraqi Government.

When we do that, when we take those steps, then the world community 
can be inspired that there is a new America that they will cooperate 
with. But until we do that, we are on our own, and our troops are on 
our own, caught in the middle of a civil war.

I will continue this in the next hour with Congresswoman Waters.
