---
---

# None
## `7b291b9d219c3089d9208a7ffee8c282`
`Mr. HATCH — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to speak about an amendment that 
would ensure funding for an extremely important program, the Federal 
traumatic brain injury--or TBI--program. This is the only Federal 
program that helps the 3.5 million Americans living with TBI and their 
families.

In 1996, when I helped to create the Federal TBI program along with 
my colleague, Senator Kennedy, most people had probably never heard of 
a traumatic brain injury. Many more people now are familiar with the 
term TBI because it has been increasingly highlighted in the media, but 
they may still not fully comprehend the gravity of such a condition.

TBI can strike anyone of any age without warning and with absolutely 
devastating results. For this reason, it is often called the ''silent 
epidemic.'' TBI is defined as brain damage from externally inflicted 
trauma to the head resulting in significant impairment to an 
individual's physical, psychosocial, and cognitive functional 
abilities. According to the CDC, brain injuries are among the most 
likely types of injury to cause death or permanent disability.

People ages 15 to 24 years and those over age 75 are the two age 
groups at highest risk for TBI. Motor vehicle accidents, sports 
accidents, falls, and violence are the major causes of TBI. TBI is 
particularly common among young males and people of both sexes who are 
75 years and older. Because of its unique nature, TBI affects the whole 
family and often results in huge medical and rehabilitation expenses 
over a lifetime.

TBI may also be caused by explosives, and medical experts have 
described it as the signature wound of the Iraq war. Up to two-thirds 
of injuries in the Iraq war may be brain injuries.

TBI affects people like no other condition simply because it affects 
the brain. Just imagine what the consequences could be if the brain did 
not work properly. The brain is the control center of the central 
nervous system and is responsible for behavior and information 
processing. It controls cognition, perception, memory, and the ability 
to pay attention. The brain is also in command of posture, reflexes, 
movement, and coordination, as well as motor skills and other forms of 
learning. It performs a variety of body functions automatically, such 
as coordinating blood pressure and body temperature and breathing.

Given this, it is clear that an injury to the brain is unpredictable 
and has the potential to cause catastrophic results. TBI can be mild, 
moderate, or severe, depending on the extent of the damage to the brain 
and the actual location of the injury. TBI can cause a host of 
physical, cognitive, emotional, and social effects. Results can be 
anything from complete recovery to permanent disability or death.

As I mentioned, TBI is different from other disabilities due to the 
severity of cognitive loss. Most rehabilitation programs are designed 
for people with physical disabilities, not cognitive disabilities. 
Cognitive disabilities require more specialized accommodations than 
physical disabilities. Finding needed services is typically a 
logistical, financial, and psychological challenge for family members 
and other caregivers, because so few coordinated systems of care exist 
for individuals with TBI.

The program comprises surveillance and research activities at the CDC 
and NIH, respectively, as well as grants through HRSA to fund State 
demonstration projects to improve access to health and other services 
and for protection and advocacy systems.

The passage of the original Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 1996 has 
improved TBI service systems at the State level and also increased the 
overall visibility and awareness of TBI. However, more work needs to be 
done at both the national and State level to build an effective, 
durable service system for meeting the needs of individuals with TBI 
and their families. There are still too many dots that need to be 
connected. We must not stop now. We must sustain this program.

That is why I have been working with my colleague, Senator Kennedy, 
to reauthorize the program once again. I am pleased that our TBI 
reauthorization bill--S. 793--passed the Senate by unanimous consent on 
December 11, 2007. Just this week, the House Energy and Commerce 
Subcommittee on Health acted on its companion bill, H.R. 1418, and 
amended it with language from our Senate bill. I am hopeful that we can 
secure a timely passage of this reauthorization and thereby reaffirm 
our commitment to helping the TBI community.

Under the President's fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, funding is 
eliminated for this program. I support my President, and I support the 
goals of funding programs with proven performance accountability while 
reducing the deficit; however, I disagree with the proposal to cut this 
important program--the only program that helps this vulnerable 
population.

And I know that I am not the only one. This is not the first time 
elimination of the program has been proposed--but it keeps getting 
funded because others also feel it is an incredibly important program. 
It is a relatively small program, budgetwise, but that should not be a 
reason to ignore its significance or to let it fall by the wayside. 
That is why I have crafted this budget-neutral amendment to create a 
reserve fund of $9 million for the TBI program. This amendment will 
ensure the sustainability of this essential program, and the 
availability of services for individuals with TBI, and I urge my 
colleagues to support it.















 amendment No. 4270
