---
---

# GIVING TERRORISTS A TRIAL BY JURY IN NEW YORK CITY
## `7b2c422dd8c2e450b89dd685a33c11aa`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

I want to follow up on what my colleague from Texas was talking 
about, as the ranking member on the Homeland Security Subcommittee on 
Terrorism. And actually, I'm the ranking Republican member on the 
Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Subcommittee under the 
Judiciary, so we have some overlapping space there.

I know my friends, the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Burton) and the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. McCaul), in their hearts are very much 
concerned about the safety and the well-being of this country. This is 
some serious stuff that's going on here when the President of the 
United States says that we need to bring at least some of the most 
feared terrorists in the world into the most densely populated area in 
America.

Now, having been a judge and a chief justice, having had to work out 
logistics for major trials that had a lot of publicity, nothing, 
nothing like this trial will be--I understand perhaps some of the 
ramifications that our fine President, with his experience in community 
organizing, may not quite understand. You can't bring terrorists--and 
the reason I say ''terrorists'' instead of ''alleged terrorists'' is 
because they've admitted it. You can't bring them to the most densely 
populated area in our country and not expect there to be terror to 
follow. I mean, I've tried felony cases, death penalty


cases, and I know there are other friends here in Congress that have 
also. Death threats arise in those types of cases. I had them. I didn't 
worry about them when it was me. I worried about them when it was my 
family, and that happens.

If you think about the consequences logistically of bringing admitted 
terrorists to the most densely populated area in America, New York 
City, where they've already struck at least twice. They tried to blow 
up the World Trade Center. It didn't work the first time. They did some 
damage, but nothing like the second time, and we're going to bring them 
right back. We know, thank God, that most Muslims are not jihadists 
like you find here with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.

But when you read the six-page pleading that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, 
the guy that they want to bring to New York for trial, said in his own 
pleading--and as I understand it, he did his own interpretation to 
English. He would make statements, and he would back them up by a 
reference and a quote in English from the Koran. He says, ''We ask to 
be near to God''--this Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who our President is 
inviting to come to New York City. ''We fight you and destroy you and 
terrorize you.'' Khalid Sheikh Mohammed said this in his pleading. And 
it wasn't just for him. It was on behalf of the other four defendants 
in this case.

But he says, ''The jihad in God's cause is a great duty in our 
religion. We have news for you. The news is you will be greatly 
defeated in Afghanistan and Iraq, and America will fall politically, 
militarily, and economically. Your end is near, and your fall will be 
just as the fall of the towers on the blessed 9/11 day. We will raise 
from the ruins, God willing. We will leave this imprisonment with our 
noses raised high in dignity as the lion emerges from his den. We shall 
pass over the blades of the sword into the gates of heaven. We ask from 
God to accept our contributions to the great attack, the great attack 
on America, and to place our 19 martyred brethren among the highest 
peaks in paradise.'' Now, this is the guy we want to bring to New York.

Now, having logistically set up major cases for trial, I can tell you 
that you have jailers who are going to be responsible for these people 
in jail 24 hours a day. Those shifts change constantly. You will have 
to be very attentive not only to every single jailer, but to every 
single jailer's family, because these forces will look for weak links 
in the jailer and the jailer's family.

You will have bailiffs in the courts who will also be responsible for 
their safekeeping and security. The bailiffs and their families will 
have to be viewed as potential weak links to be utilized by the 
terrorists.

You'll have to think about the clerks who may be marshaling evidence. 
They and their families will have to worry about being targets.

You will have to think about potential jurors. Even though the names 
supposedly would be kept secret, you have to worry about them and their 
families.

And the judge, his name will not be kept secret. The judge and his 
family will be open targets the rest of their lives.

This is scary stuff from a President who knows how to community 
organize better than any President we've had, but I don't believe he 
knows the organizational efforts and the weaknesses that will be 
brought out.

I would yield to my friend from Arizona (Mr. Shadegg).