---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `7b2d4ca61706b68e461e2457a6088f3b`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this whole debate regarding what the 
Senate should do and how to send the right


messages regarding Iraq war policy is important, but the most important 
message the Senate can send, to me, would be to our troops and to our 
potential enemies.

Everybody in America understands the war is not going well. Those who 
don't understand it are in denial because it clearly has not been the 
success we were hoping for.

The new strategy we are about to embark on, the Petraeus doctrine, 
for lack of a better word, I do believe has the best chance left for us 
to succeed, and additional troops in Iraq can make a huge difference. 
We have been able to clear in the past but never hold. We don't need 
any more combat power to clear. We have won every battle we have ever 
been in with the insurgents. But we have been unable to hold the 
territory. Mr. President, 17,500 more troops in Baghdad would allow us 
to hold territory for the purpose of political reconciliation.

The ultimate question for the body is how to bring out the best in 
the Iraqi political leadership. Some say we need to send a strong 
message that we are going to leave at a date certain, threaten to cut 
off funding for the Iraqi military, quit providing security to 
political leaders in Iraq.

My answer is that democracy is hard without being shot at. The reason 
we don't solve immigration, Social Security, and other emotional 
problems is because in our own country we get locked down by pretty 
extreme voices who have political action committees and run 527 ads.

The problem the Iraqi political leadership has to deal with is a 
violent country, to the point where it is hard to get political 
compromise. It is tough to go to Baghdad and do an oil-sharing revenue 
agreement among Sunnis, Kurds, and Shias when 100 of your constituents 
have been shot in the head and left out in the street that day.

So I believe precondition to political reconciliation is better 
security and the better security can only be achieved by going into 
militia strongholds that were previously off limits, by more combat 
capability on the ground to hold territory cleared, and by putting the 
Iraqi troops out front with a sufficient support network behind them 
and American hands to give them the capacity they are lacking today to 
deal with the insurgency.

The McCain-Graham-Lieberman resolution understands a million troops 
won't matter if the Iraqi political leadership doesn't reach political 
consensus on oil, rule of law, and on a million other problems they 
have. But the benchmarks in our resolution are an acknowledgment that 
it takes political compromise in Iraq to bring about stability, but we 
cannot have that political compromise with this level of violence.

The resolution also talks about a failed state in Iraq and the 
consequences to this country. They are long lasting and far reaching. A 
failed state in Iraq is partitioned, where the civil war environment 
spreads to the region, as a disaster. So if you throw in the towel on 
Iraq, you don't stop the fight; you guarantee a larger fight.

The debate for the Senate is how many votes should we have to express 
the differences we have in this body? If the Warner-Levin resolution--I 
respect both authors, but I just disagree with the message it sends--if 
Warner-Levin is ever adopted by this body, the headlines throughout 
this world will be: Senate condemns surge. Baghdad lost.

The resolution disapproves of sending more troops. I believe we need 
more troops in the short term to bring about political reconciliation. 
But it is not only me saying it. It is General Petraeus, the commander. 
I think the message from the resolution considers his efforts lost 
before they have had a chance to be implemented. It is a lack of 
resolve in terms of the enemy. The enemy will see this as a lack of 
resolve on our part, and no good comes from it because it doesn't stop 
the troops.

Secondly, it says you can continue operations in Anbar, the Sunni 
area where al-Qaida is operating, but you can't go into Baghdad. 
Baghdad is a mess. Baghdad is a very violent place where they have 
sectarian violence occurring. The question is: Do we stop it now or let 
it grow bigger? There are 6 million people in Baghdad. The nightmare I 
worry about is an open civil war, where we have a bloodletting that 
will bring in Sunni Arab nations to come to the aid of their Sunni 
brothers, Iran will get involved in the south of Iraq, and nothing good 
will come of that.

The reason we are having this sectarian violence is because al-Qaida 
struck the mother lode when it bombed the Golden Mosque in Samarra, the 
third most holy religious site in the Shia religion. That has created 
sectarian fighting that has gotten out of control.

For decades, Sunnis and Shias married and lived together in Baghdad 
and other places. The Shia population was terribly oppressed during the 
Saddam Hussein regime, but the Shia majority had remarkable restraint 
up until the bombing of the mosque, which was al-Qaida inspired. I 
don't want to give in to acts of terrorism that bring out the worst in 
people.

Our goal is not to get the oil from Iraq; it is not to create a 
puppet state for the United States in Iraq. It is to bring out the best 
in the Iraqi people, to allow the moderates in the region a chance to 
conquer and defeat the extremists who have no place for anybody other 
than only their way of doing business, including us.

We can't kill enough of the terrorists to win, but we surely can 
empower the moderates so they have a chance of winning.

I am glad we did not take a vote in isolation on Warner-Levin. It 
would have been 50-something votes, less than 60, and the headlines 
throughout the world would read: Surge condemned. Baghdad lost. It 
would have been embarrassing to the President. This is not about 
President Bush being embarrassed. It is about the message we send to 
our troops and our enemies.

The reason the Senate is not the House is because we have a chance 
for the minority; we have a chance to have a healthy, full debate. We 
were asking for two votes, not one. If you are going to vote on Warner-
Levin, fine, I will come to the floor and take the responsibility for 
opposing it, vote against it, and argue vehemently that it undercuts 
our efforts in Iraq. But there was another vote being proposed on the 
Judd Gregg amendment that simply said we will not cut off funding, we 
will not cap troops as a statement of this body. It would have gotten 
70 votes. And the reason we couldn't have those two votes, in my 
opinion, is because the Democratic left--and we have them on the 
right--would have ginned up and gone nuts over the idea that the 
Democratic caucus would not cut off funding for a war that the 
Democratic left thought should have ended last week.

I know what it is like. I have been through this on immigration. Once 
your base gets mad at you, it is not pleasant, but you can't build 
policies around bloggers.

So I am glad the Senate did not take a single vote that was designed 
to embarrass a single political element in the country. If we are going 
to debate Iraq on the floor of the Senate, we should be willing to take 
more than one vote. Two votes is not too much to ask.

Where we go from here, I don't know. I can't promise success from 
this new strategy, but I can promise the consequences of failure, and 
these young men and women who will leave to go off as part of this new 
strategy, I know every Member of the Senate wishes them well and prays 
for their safety. But I do hope as they leave, we do not take any 
action to undercut their efforts because of 2008 politics. The war in 
Iraq is much bigger than the next election.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.