---
---

# None
## `7b37d3ea922fd42e5e72c8c39975ada0`
`Mr. CARDIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I welcome the debate on the U.S. role in 
Iraq, and I urge my colleagues to allow us to vote on the issue. I 
think each of us was elected to cast our votes and this is the most 
critical issue that is facing this Nation and we should be able to cast 
a vote on this issue, hopefully tonight.

I urge my colleagues to support the amendment offered by Senators 
Levin and Reed to the Defense authorization legislation. It is similar 
to the provisions Congress originally passed on the emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill that President Bush vetoed.

We now have more information than we did 3 months ago when we acted 
on the supplemental appropriations bill. We know the President's surge 
policy has not worked. By the President's own assessment, the Iraqis 
have failed to meet the most important interim benchmarks required for 
stability in Iraq. The Levin-Reed amendment would change our mission in 
Iraq to limit U.S. involvement to conducting counterterrorism 
operations, protecting U.S. forces and military infrastructure during 
redeployment, and training Iraqi forces.

It would set a deadline of April 30, 2008, for all U.S. combat troops 
to be removed from attempting to quell the civil war in Iraq. We should 
not wait a single additional day in changing the U.S. mission in Iraq.

I have opposed the war from the inception. In October 2002, I voted 
against giving President Bush the authority to use U.S. troops in Iraq. 
I have likewise opposed the President's management of this war. The 
administration misrepresented or ignored intelligence about Iraq. The 
administration's effort to garner international support for the war was 
totally inadequate. Our troops went to Iraq without adequate equipment. 
The President failed to prepare for the insurgency. The leadership in 
the White House wrongfully ordered the dismantling of the internal 
Iraqi police, putting the local communities at the mercy of the 
insurgents.

Our Nation and the Iraqis have paid a heavy price for the 
administration's mistakes. To date, over 3,600 U.S. soldiers have died 
and over 23,000 have been wounded, many sustaining life-changing 
injuries. Seventy-seven of the brave men and women who have lost their 
lives have been from Maryland. U.S. taxpayers have spent at least $320 
billion so far. According to the Congressional Research Service, the 
war in Iraq currently costs $10 billion per month.

These expenditures represent lost opportunities in our own country.

Tragically, we have lost our focus in the war against terrorism. 
Afghanistan is not secure, and Osama bin Laden is still at large. For 
over a year, there has been a significant increase in the level of 
violence in Iraq. The main reason for this escalation has been 
sectarian violence.

U.S. military commanders have confirmed that the Sunni-Shiite 
conflict is the greatest source of violence in Iraq. Iraq is in the 
midst of a civil war, and the presence of American troops in the middle 
of a civil war is counterproductive. In fact, there is not one civil 
war raging in Iraq, there are many civil wars in Iraq. In Baghdad, 
Sunnis are fighting Shias. In Anbar and Diyala, Sunnis are fighting 
each other. In southern Iraq, Shiites are fighting each other. And 
around Kirkuik and Mosul Kurds are fighting Sunnis.

Our first priority should be to remove our troops from the middle of 
these civil wars. The Levin-Reed amendment will do just that. In order 
to bolster our military and refocus its attention on the global 
terrorism threat, this Congress has attempted, on more than one 
occasion, to redeploy U.S. forces and change the mission of our 
operations in Iraq.

President Bush and a minority in Congress have rebuffed this effort. 
Instead, President Bush proposes a strategy he claimed would improve 
the situation in Iraq: increasing the number of troops deployed, and 
stepping up traditional counterinsurgent operations.

According to President Bush, increased U.S. troops would stabilize 
the country so that its national leaders could operate in a safe 
environment in which to reach political agreement on oil and revenue 
sharing laws and amend their constitution. Furthermore, so the theory 
went, increased U.S. troop levels would enable us to accelerate 
training initiatives so that the Iraqi Army and police force could 
assume control over all security in the country by November 2007.

President Bush sent over 28,000 more soldiers into Iraq with the hope 
of fulfilling the goals of his plan. President Bush insists on 
continuing this surge policy. But the so-called surge is not working. 
Some of the most brutal acts of sectarian violence have occurred during 
the surge.

For example, in March of this year, a truck bomb in a Shia 
neighborhood killed 150 people. The Shia-controlled police units 
responded by systematically kidnapping and murdering 70 Sunnis. This is 
not an isolated episode.

Approximately 600 U.S. soldiers have died during the surge, and more 
than 3,000 have been wounded. Violence in many sectors of Iraq has 
increased. Despite the valiant effort of our troops, terrorist attacks 
in Iraq and around the world continue to rise. Tensions between 
countries in the Middle East region are growing.

Middle East autocrats have an even firmer grip on power. The Arab-
Israeli conflict has deteriorated. Our military is stretched thin. And 
the most recent intelligence analysis reports that the al-Qaida group 
that attacked our Nation, the al-Qaida in Afghanistan and Pakistan, is 
stronger now than at any time since September 11, 2001.

The 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations bill required 
President Bush to report to Congress and the American people on the 
progress Iraqis are making in achieving certain benchmarks. These 
benchmarks were established so there could be a new way forward in Iraq 
with regard to securing civilian populations, establishing the Iraqi 
security force's capacity, and supporting an Iraqi Government that 
would have credibility and confidence at the national and provincial 
levels.

We now have received the first report from the administration. This 
assessment confirms the failures of the President's policies in Iraq by 
his own objectives. The Iraqis have failed to make satisfactory 
progress in key areas. For example, it is critical, critical for the 
Iraqi Parliament to pass legislation ensuring equitable distribution of 
the hydrocarbon oil revenues. Without such legislation, it is difficult 
to believe that the ethnic communities will have confidence in their 
central government. The Bush administration's assessment on this 
benchmark: not satisfactory.

Another benchmark concerns disarmament of the militias. We have heard 
about the militias and how they run their own affairs and take over 
ethnic communities. It is necessary that the Iraqi security forces be 
the national military. Eliminating militia control of local security is 
an additional benchmark. The Bush administration's assessment on those 
key benchmarks: not satisfactory and unsatisfactory.

Our goal has always been for the Iraqi commanders being able to make 
tactical and operational decisions without political intervention to 
uncover and pursue all extremists on all sides. The Iraqi security 
forces provide even-handed enforcement of the law. That is critical if 
the Government is going to have the confidence of its people. The Bush 
administration's own assessment on these benchmarks: unsatisfactory.

It is critical that the Iraqi security forces be able to operate 
independently. This benchmark is particularly important if we are going 
to be able to


draw down on the U.S. troops in Iraq. The Bush administration's 
assessment on this benchmark: not satisfactory.

The interim report the administration released last week confirms 
that Iraqi security forces still cannot be trusted to enforce the law 
fairly. Some have taken part in sectarian violence, and some even have 
turned on American troops.

In order to have national reconciliation and the political elements 
for stability in Iraq, it is necessary to enact and implement 
debaathification reforms; another critical benchmark that was 
established with the United States and the Iraqis. The Bush 
administration's assessment on this benchmark: not satisfactory.

Most troubling, the Iraqi Government is seriously weakened, and many 
predict its collapse. The major Sunni party is currently boycotting the 
Government. Without Sunni participation, meaningful progress on any key 
political benchmarks is impossible.

Whatever progress the President's interim report claims, it is clear 
that our military has not curbed sectarian violence, nor has the troop 
escalation provided sectarian influence over and infiltration of the 
Iraqi security forces, or forced Iraqi political leaders to make the 
tough decisions necessary to move forward toward peace.

I think it is time to acknowledge that President Bush's troop 
escalation has failed. It has failed to make Iraq more secure. The 
Iraqi Government remains incapable of organizing its security forces or 
its legislature to achieve a semblance of stability or political 
reconciliation.


It is time to change the mission in Iraq. The cost of further delays 
in lives, material, treasure, standing in the world, is just too great. 
President Bush's strategy has put this Nation at greater risk, a risk 
that metastasizes each day that we sit by and wait. Wait for what? For 
new evidence of failure to accumulate, for news that more American 
soldiers have died and Iraqi civilians have been killed?

It is critical for the United States to change policy in Iraq, and it 
starts by removing our troops from the middle of a civil war. The 
Levin-Reed amendment would do that. Our new mission must recognize that 
the opportunity for sweeping regional change, if it ever existed, has 
passed.

Instead, we need to focus on realistic objectives which include 
preventing the conflict in Iraq from igniting a broader regional war 
and preventing genocide.

Unfortunately, we cannot rewrite history. The United States does have 
a responsibility toward assisting the Iraqis and working for peace in 
that region. It is in the interests of our country to do that. There is 
no easy path to achieve the objectives of stability in Iraq and 
protection of all of its ethnic communities.

As the bipartisan Iraq Study Group noted:




 There is no action the American military can take that by 


 itself can bring about success in Iraq.


The efforts will most certainly include stepped-up diplomatic 
efforts. Iraq's neighbors have a stake in Iraqi stability. The war in 
Iraq has produced hundreds of thousands of refugees. An escalation of 
the conflict will mean even more refugees, which is a major concern to 
Iraq's neighbors.

An escalation in the conflict means the spread of fundamentalism and 
sectarian violence, and an increase in basic crime and lawlessness, not 
just to Iraq but to the region.

We must support and broaden efforts made to create the International 
Compact for Iraq, a 5-year plan launched this past April under the 
auspices of the United Nations with benchmarks for Iraq's national 
reconciliation and economic reconstruction.

That compact includes formal commitments of support from the 
international community. But we must begin to have a broader diplomatic 
and economic vision in the Middle East that includes engaging both the 
United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe, OSCE, in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The various agencies of the United Nations are best suited to tackle 
the myriad problems plaguing Iraq. Matters of security, training, 
economics, and community development and providing electricity, water, 
and sanitation service are all areas where the United Nations has 
expertise.

Just as important, the United States should request OSCE to assist 
Iraq as a partner for cooperation. There is precedent for this. 
Afghanistan has already moved in that direction. Afghanistan has begun 
participation in OSCE proceedings under this program. This status could 
allow OSCE to assist Iraq with collective border security, police 
training--which is desperately needed--immigration and religious 
tolerance efforts.

Engaging the UN and OSCE could help initiate much needed multilateral 
and bilateral engagement with both friendly nations such as Turkey and 
with hostile nations such as Iran and Syria.

Engagement of the international community to deal with Iran and 
Syria's destabilizing regional policies is a critical factor that is 
needed and a renewed effort to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict.

Iraq should request assistance from the United Nations and other 
international forces to help prevent continued ethnic cleansing. 
According to the United Nations 2005 World Summit, a high-level plenary 
meeting of the 60th session of the General Assembly, states have a 
responsibility to protect their population from genocide, war crimes, 
ethnic cleansing, and crimes against humanity. This is an international 
responsibility, not solely a U.S. responsibility.

I believe the strategy I have just outlined presents the best chance 
of helping the Iraqis negotiate a government and a governmental 
structure that has the confidence of its people, that protects the 
rights of all of its citizens, and builds the democratic institutions 
such as an independent judiciary and a market-based economy that are so 
vital to a successful country.

There is a difference between being resolute and being stubborn. We 
can no longer ignore overwhelming evidence or recoil from the cold 
reality the facts on the ground reveal. President Bush's policies have 
failed. The world has an interest in a safe and secure Iraq. I believe 
efforts to rebuild the country must be a shared responsibility among 
nations.

There is no more time for delay. It is time to change the mission, 
redeploy our troops currently stationed in Iraq, and internationalize 
the effort to bring stability to that country and to the Middle East. 
Such a strategy could give the Iraqis a real hope for peace and give 
Americans the best chance to achieve our objectives in that region of 
the world.

Our soldiers have honored our country by their incredible service. We 
owe it to our soldiers to change our mission now so we have the best 
chance to achieve these objectives.

I yield the floor.