---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `7b4a017de1181648c6794d15b4701f93`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am glad this long and unfortunate 
political process has apparently come to an end, so we can now provide 
the funding for our troops that has been needed for some time. The 
failure to do so has created uncertainty and ambiguity and has, I 
believe, undermined our policies in Iraq in a number of different ways. 
Historically, politics have stopped at the water's edge. That was a 
cardinal rule of American foreign policy that you might agree with or 
not, but you would not criticize fundamental decisions made by the 
United States while things are ongoing in various places in the world 
and, certainly, you would not take steps and actions that would 
undermine our troops in combat someplace in the world.



Vigorous debate is absolutely a part of who we are as a Nation. A lot 
of people who have been critical of our war efforts in Iraq have made 
suggestions that have been good. A number of their criticisms have been 
correct, and it is certainly welcome and a part of our heritage that we 
would have that kind of debate. I don't mean to suggest otherwise. But 
the delays we have been seeing now in actually providing the funding 
necessary for our military men and women in harm's way has been too 
long. I believe it has had a tendency to embolden our enemies and raise 
questions in the minds of our own soldiers.

So as I have said a number of times on the floor of the Senate, those 
soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan today are there for one reason, and 
that is because we sent them. They are doing tough, hot, demanding, 
dangerous work. I have been there six times. I have to tell you, I have 
never been more impressed. They don't complain. They do their work with 
professionalism. They care about what they are doing. They believe in 
what they are doing. They want to succeed, and I tell you that with 
every fiber in my being. It is their desire to help the country of Iraq 
achieve stability and progress.

They are executing lawful policies of the U.S. Government. That 
includes the Congress--the House and Senate--as well as the President 
of the United States. We have, through lawful processes, deployed them 
to execute policies that we have decided on. This Congress, of course, 
has the power to bring them home at any moment that we desire. I think 
people are wrestling with that. Some think they should come home now. 
Some think that is not the appropriate decision. The President believes 
that is not the appropriate decision. We have accepted and have 
fundamentally affirmed the surge that has sent additional troops there. 
They are there to execute our mission. That is all I wish to say. They 
are there to execute our mission.

I talked to a mother not long ago whose son was killed in Iraq. She 
told me her son told her he believed in what he was doing. He told me 
when they went into neighborhoods, the women and children were glad 
they were there. They wanted them in the neighborhoods. That is all I 
am telling you. You can read what you want to in the newspaper. But 
because it brought a sense of security there, they wanted them there. I 
know there are limits to our ability to achieve what we would like to 
achieve, no matter what we would like to achieve; I know we are not 
unlimited in our ability to achieve it. We have to be realistic, and we 
cannot commit a single soldier to an effort a single day longer than we 
conclude is an appropriate thing for them to be doing. If we think it 
is not justified and worthwhile, we need to bring them home. I 
certainly agree with that.


This is a serious discussion we have been having, and I don't dispute 
the people who have different views of how this ought to occur. I will 
say again that real support of the soldiers in harm's way means we 
affirm them and their mission as long as we fund their mission, as long 
as we order them there. You may say we didn't order them there, but we 
did order them there. We have funded them to stay there, according to 
the President's tactical decision. But we authorized him to do so, and 
we can end that authorization as we choose.

But the truth is, we have invested a tremendous amount in Iraq. 
General Petraeus--what a fabulous general he is--told us the truth, I 
believe. The truth is it is hard, but it is not impossible. He also has 
said what we are doing there is important. It is important that a 
stable, decent government be maintained in Iraq. That is not a little 
thing; it is a very important thing. The soldiers who have been there--
the soldiers who serve--would be, indeed, in pain and be hurt if we 
prematurely give up on what they have sacrificed to achieve and what so 
many of them truly believe in, if you talk to them.

I have to tell you that the surge of troops into Iraq was a bitter 
pill to me. I remember distinctly when General Casey said in late 2005 
he believed we could start bringing home troops in 2006. That was 
absolutely music to my ears and what I wanted to hear. Then he said he 
had to delay the troops coming home because the sophisticated, 
sustained effort by al-Qaida to attack Shia individuals in holy places 
had created a reaction by Shia, with the formation of a Shia militia, 
and they were killing Sunni individuals and that broke out into a spate 
of violence in Baghdad, the capital city, the central focus of Iraq, 
and that was extremely unfortunate.

So my thinking is this: Benchmarks for the Iraqi Government--if we 
write that correctly and don't do it in a way that is unwise and 
counterproductive, as I believe this language is, at least it would be 
language the President can accept, and I would be prepared to accept 
the demand that they do certain things. That is all right with me. Our 
commitment is not open-ended. We cannot continue to try to lift a 
government that cannot function effectively. We want them to function. 
We want them to have a healthy, prosperous government. There are some 
good things that have happened--really and truly, there have been good 
things. But there are very difficult things also that are not going 
well. This is a challenge to the Iraqi Government.

I truly hope the benchmarks and language in this funding resolution 
will be such that it will be a positive spur to the Iraqi Government to 
confront their reconciliation difficulties, spur them to reach 
agreements on other constitutional questions that are critical, and be 
an effective step in helping that Government stand up and assume 
responsibility for its own fate.

I have to say I am not comfortable and am indeed uneasy with high 
troop levels sustained in what would be considered an occupation or a 
stand-in for the democratically elected Government of Iraq. That 
Government has to stand up and assume greater and greater 
responsibility. I do hope and pray that they will because it is 
exceedingly important that they do.

I yield the floor.