---
---

# CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `7b60a239f529fc16e625565ae42c1ee1`
`Mrs. HALVORSON — 3 February 2010`

---


Mrs. HALVORSON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.

I rise to urge my colleagues to support my amendment to H.R. 4061, 
the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2009. This amendment is simple, 
necessary, and beneficial to veterans. It will add veteran status as an 
additional item of consideration when selecting individuals for the 
Cyber Scholarship for Service program.

In light of recent attacks on both government and commercial 
technology infrastructure, it is critical that America be on the 
forefront of cybersecurity. Our veterans and servicemembers have a 
proven track record of successfully protecting American interests at 
home and abroad. The experiences and skills that our veterans have 
gained through their service are exactly what we need to improve our 
cybersecurity.

My amendment helps veterans continue their service to our country by 
increasing the likelihood that a veteran or servicemember will be 
selected for this competitive scholarship. The scholarship program will 
provide funding to individuals seeking B.A.s, M.A.s, and Ph.D.s in the 
field of cybersecurity. This amendment will allow our veterans and 
servicemembers to afford a better education and continue to serve their 
country.

Additionally, many veterans and servicemembers have already received 
cybersecurity and other relevant training during their service in the 
military. They are uniquely qualified to defend our Nation from 
cybersecurity threats we face. Furthermore, upon successful completion 
of their degree, scholarship recipients will be eligible for Federal 
employment in the field of cybersecurity. With thousands of veterans 
returning from service in Iraq and Afghanistan, and more than 20 
percent of veterans under the age of 24 unemployed, it is critical that 
they are given every opportunity to continue serving their country.

Our veterans and servicemembers have sacrificed to protect our 
country and our freedom. We owe them all the assistance we can give 
them in helping them to better education and job opportunities in their 
civilian lives.

I would like to thank the committee and the chairman for working with 
my colleague from New Hampshire and me to introduce this amendment. 
Once again, I rise in strong support of the amendment, and I urge my 
colleagues to vote in support of it.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.