# CZARS
## `7b62840f9ebbf0ba0125f13f0fd0b74e`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 17 September 2009`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. I want to make it clear to the White House Press 
Office that we are focused on those 18 new czars. We recognize there 
have been czars before, that for the reasons Senator Byrd, Senator 
Hutchison, Senator Collins, and others have described. We believe this 
is too many, and we take seriously our responsibilities under Article 
II of the Constitution to confirm officials who manage the government, 
to ask them questions, to approve their appropriations, and to withhold 
their appropriations when it's appropriate.

We have these positions in the Executive Office of the President; 
there are 10 of them: central region czar, Dennis Ross; cyber-security 
czar, domestic violence czar, economic czar, energy and environment 
czar, and health czar. Those are some of the biggest issues facing 
Congress, and here are these czars with authority for policy close to 
the President but unaccountable to us. We have a senior director for 
information sharing policy, urban affairs czar, WMD policy czar, a 
green job czar, who resigned recently. Those are the positions in the 
Executive Office of the President, 10 new ones. Then there are eight 
more that are in departments or agencies, including: Afghanistan czar, 
auto recovery czar, car czar, Great Lakes czar, pay czar, Guantanamo 
closure czar, international climate czar, and the border czar.

I described on Monday, as Senator Byrd has said more eloquently, the 
problems with too many czars. The first problem is the constitutional


checks and balances described by Senator Byrd. The second problem is 
that this is a poor way to manage the government. When I was a young 
White House aide, I was taught that the job of the White House staff is 
to push the merely important issues out of the White House so you can 
reserve to the President the handful of truly Presidential issues for 
his attention. His job is to set the country's agenda, to see an urgent 
need and devise a strategy, meet the need and persuade at least half 
the people he is right. He can do that more effectively if the 
government is managed by Secretaries and Cabinet officers.

Finally, czars are anti-democratic. Czars are usually Russian, not 
American. Czars are usually imperialists, not Democrats. The dictionary 
says czars are autocratic rulers or leaders. That is not consistent 
with the kind of government we want. It is alien to our way of 
thinking.

Czars are becoming the most visible symbol of this administration's 
determination to have an increasing number of Washington takeovers: 
banks, insurance companies, student loans, car companies, even farm 
ponds. Some want to take over health care. Many Americans believe we 
have a runaway government with too many Washington takeovers, and the 
last thing we need are 18 new czars unaccountable to elected officials 
whose job it is to check and balance that government.

I am glad in a way that the White House has noticed my comments and 
those of Senators Collins, Bennett, Hutchison, and others. I hope they 
will respond to Senator Collins' letter, to Senator Feingold's request, 
and to other admonitions. We call on the administration to answer 
questions posed by these Senators: Who are these czars? What is their 
role? What is their responsibility? How were they vetted? What 
limitations are on their positions to make sure they don't encroach on 
legitimate statutory responsibilities of other executive branch 
officials, and will they agree to a reasonable request to appear before 
Congress?

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1





 U.S. Senate, Committee on Homeland Security and 





 Governmental Affairs,















 Washington, DC, September 14, 2009.


 Hon. Barack Obama,


 President of the United States, The White House, Washington, 