---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7b63563a6d7d0fa9e5ce8c79eb350ecd`
`Ms. WATERS — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support, strong support, of 
Congresswoman Barbara Lee's amendment to the 2010 Supplemental 
Appropriations Act. This amendment would limit the funds appropriated 
within the supplemental to the continued protection of our military and 
civilian personnel in Afghanistan, while a plan is implemented to begin 
their safe and orderly withdrawal from the region.

Despite nearly $300 billion spent on a predominantly military 
operation, by the way, resulting in the loss of over 1,000 U.S. troops 
in Afghanistan, we have not been able to successfully address 
Afghanistan's economic depravity, political corruption, or social 
divisions that have significantly impeded our military efforts within 
the country.

The American public is tired of this long, drawn-out war. Moreover, 
many of us in Congress do not see the logic in investing further funds 
toward training the Afghan Army, when all methods utilized to this 
point have failed to achieve tangible gains.

Furthermore, charges of corruption within the Karzai government have 
negatively impacted our credibility among Afghans, forcing them to 
choose between two different groups of terrorists.

The counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy is failing in Afghanistan and 
the Afghan government remains corrupt and illegitimate in the eyes of 
many of the Afghan citizens. The critical appropriations being offered 
in other Amendments (disaster relief, education funding, black farmer 
settlements) today underscores why we can no longer afford to continue 
our expensive military strategy in Afghanistan.

Deploying more combat troops to Afghanistan and continuing Bush 
wartime engagement strategies will fail to help Afghanistan build long-
term sustainable institutions and a credible democratic government. 
Despite nearly $300 billion spent on a predominantly military operation 
(resulting in the loss of over 1,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan), we 
have not been able to successfully address Afghanistan's economic 
depravity, political corruption, or social divisions that have 
significantly impeded our military efforts within the country. The 
American public is beginning to tire of this long drawn-out war. 
Moreover, many of us in Congress do not see the logic in investing 
further funds towards training the Afghan army when all methods 
utilized to this point have failed to achieve tangible gains. 
Furthermore, charges of corruption within the Karzai government have 
negatively impacted our credibility among Afghans, forcing them to 
choose between two different groups of terrorists--the Taliban or the 
corrupt Karzai government comprised of former warlords, responsible for 
some of the same atrocities the Taliban currently inflicts upon 
civilians.

A strengthened Taliban has resurfaced and is engaged in violent 
attacks throughout the country so that now is the deadliest time for 
American soldiers since the war began. Booming opium production helps 
fund the Taliban, which also receives aid from al Qaeda networks in 
Pakistan. The fledgling Afghan army and police are not ready to defend 
the country from insurgent attacks and operate independently from U.S. 
military involvement, training, and support. The highly organized and 
determined insurgency has continued to exploit the weak central 
government. Although the main insurgent groups may not have the same 
operational structure or long-term goals, they are inherently united in 
their efforts to drive the U.S. out of Afghanistan and unravel the 
central Afghan ''democratic'' government.

Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to vote yes on 
Representative Lee's Amendment so that we can begin the process of 
bringing our troops home!

