---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `7b8aed086927ed11f071cd3ad845a49e`
`Mr. LEAHY — 21 January 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator and 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee from Massachusetts. It is 
interesting, this is the first day after the inauguration of President 
Barack Obama--my ninth inauguration, by far the most impressive--and I 
have the great pleasure to speak in support of the confirmation of my 
friend and colleague, Hillary Rodham Clinton, to be our next Secretary 
of State.

Secretary-designee Clinton's stature, intellect, her experience make 
her uniquely qualified to take on this role, a role which comes at a 
critical time in our history.

As chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that funds the State 
Department and our foreign assistance programs, I look forward to 
working closely with her and President Obama as they embark on the 
critical task of restoring America's leadership and image abroad.

I appreciate the conversations I have had with both of them in this 
regard. Some 8 years ago, President Bush inherited a balanced Federal 
budget. We were actually paying down the national debt. We had the 
biggest surplus in history. The U.S. economy was strong, and the 
country was at peace.

Now, 8 years later, his successor, President Obama, has inherited 
from him the largest deficit in our Nation's


history, an economic crisis and unemployment rate unlike any this 
country has experienced since the Great Depression, a budget deficit 
greater than any nation on Earth has ever had, Osama bin Laden has yet 
to be captured, more than 180,000 U.S. troops are fighting wars in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, the Middle East peace process is in shambles, the 
country is more dependent than ever on foreign oil, and the country's 
international reputation has been badly damaged as a result of policies 
that were contemptuous of the values of which this Nation was founded. 
That is the good news for the new President and the Secretary of State-
designee.

I do not envy President Obama for the multitude of misguided policies 
and problems he has inherited, but all the more reason he needs the 
best men and women to work with him. Secretary of State-designee 
Clinton is going to serve him and the country well as they take on 
these challenges.

During the election, I remember saying to President Obama that we 
needed him to reintroduce America to the rest of the world. I have, in 
conversations with Senator Clinton, told her, what better person to go 
around the world than Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State to 
reintroduce America and the great core values of this Nation. What 
better person to do it than Hillary Clinton?

In her confirmation before the Foreign Relations Committee last week, 
she discussed the need to use ''smart power,'' including ''the full 
range of tools at our disposal.''

I am glad to see her support for foreign assistance reform. We need 
that, and we have learned over the past several years we cannot take 
for granted the unwavering allegiance of any country in the world. We 
have to work at keeping those relationships. It is not amateur hour, 
and I appreciate Secretary-designee Clinton's recognition of the value 
and experience of dedicated international affairs public servants and 
her plans to support and enhance that capacity.

She is going to become immersed in the immensely difficult problems 
that were ignored or badly mishandled by the outgoing administration: 
the Middle East, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Sudan, Mexico, Somalia 
and central Africa. All these pose particularly vexing challenges which 
she has to confront immediately, and the sooner she is there, the 
better.

I will mention a couple of other items. The Federal law prohibiting 
U.S. assistance to units of foreign security forces that violate human 
rights was first enacted a dozen years ago. The State Department is 
still struggling with implementing it, particularly with regard to the 
monitoring of military equipment provided to foreign governments.

This law, known as the Leahy amendment, has been applied unevenly 
depending on the country, and I urge Secretary-designee Clinton to 
review the Leahy amendment to ensure its vigorous and consistent 
implementation.

Ten years ago this March, the Convention on the Prohibition of the 
Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and 
on Their Destruction came into force. Today, there are 156 countries 
that have signed this treaty. The most powerful Nation on Earth, the 
United States, has not.

The U.S. military has not used the types of antipersonnel landmines 
prohibited by the treaty since 1991, and it has no plans to do so. I 
would urge her to go back to that.

Mr. President, like President Obama, Secretary-designee Clinton 
recognizes the need for strong United States leadership in an 
increasingly complex, dangerous, and interdependent world. She 
understands that most global and regional problems cannot be solved by 
the U.S. alone, that we need to act boldly and change the status quo 
when it no longer serves our interests or reflects our values, 
strengthen and expand our alliances, help the poorest countries develop 
effective and accountable institutions, and pursue policies that 
enhance our image abroad.

Today, as we leave the troubled policies of the past 8 years behind 
us, the American people should feel fortunate, as I do, that Hillary 
Rodham Clinton will be our new Secretary of State.

I commend the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. I will be 
joining with him proudly to vote for the confirmation of Hillary Rodham 
Clinton to be our next Secretary of State.