# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `7b9d20b8db248c15ad3a2d0872a847a9`
`Mr. AKAKA â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, for the last few weeks, the administration 
has increased its rhetoric about a looming budget shortfall at the 
Department of Defense unless Congress passes an emergency spending 
bill. Most recently, the President threatened to lay off hundreds of 
thousands of Federal workers at DoD to make up for any shortfalls. This 
is simply unacceptable.

The Pentagon said as late as last week that the Department has 
sufficient funds in order to keep our fighting men and women in Iraq 
and Afghanistan supplied through late February to mid-March of next 
year. Nonetheless, the administration continues to threaten to layoff 
workers to make up for a non-existent gap in funding. The Department of 
Defense should not use Federal employees as pawns because the White 
House is playing politics with the budget.

As Chairman of the Governmental Affairs Oversight of Government 
Management and Federal Workforce Subcommittee and the Armed Services 
Readiness Subcommittee, I have made oversight Government contracting a 
priority. In several hearings, I have heard officials and 
whistleblowers testify about the systemic waste, fraud and abuse, in 
many contracts. If the administration wants to save money, it should 
start increasing oversight over contracts and drop those that are not 
performing.

Rather than increasing their efforts to eliminate waste, fraud, and 
abuse in contracting that costs us billions every year, this 
administration would rather lay off patriotic civilian Federal 
employees who have dedicated their careers to the Federal Government. 
The Federal Government is already facing looming crisis in retirements 
and is working hard to recruit new workers to fill vacancies. Using 
Federal workers to make a political statement is wrong. It sends a 
negative message to prospective employees and hurts recruitment efforts 
in the long run.

Instead of looking to cut the Federal workforce to save money, the 
President should be holding contractors accountable to reduce costs and 
ensure


that our fighting men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan have the 
supplies they need.

Today, I am introducing a bill that would send a clear message to the 
administration that Federal workers are not bargaining chips.

The idea behind this legislation is simple, rather than laying off 
Federal workers to close a budget shortfall, the Pentagon should 
suspend contracts for non-essential services. Many service contractors 
work side-by-side with Federal workers. There is no reason that Federal 
workers should get a pink slip for Christmas while the Pentagon 
continues to spend millions on contractors.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.