# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `7ba8efdc55446d46b527b634b58ea485`
`Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend 
from California for the time.

I rise to strongly oppose this rule and the underlying legislation 
that is being brought to the floor. For obviously substantive grounds, 
I oppose the legislation being brought to the floor.

I think that we are at a decisive time, more even than a critical 
time, a decisive time in the conflict in Iraq. And I think that now to 
be substantively, as this legislation does, tying the hands of our 
military personnel and, in effect, saying, well, if things don't go 
totally appropriately, totally correctly, if they don't go right, then 
you must withdraw.

And I think about other wars in the past and what would have happened 
if we would have had those kinds of requisites. If we had tied the 
hands of the military leaders in the past, there would have been 
disaster then. There would be disaster now if this legislation passes.

And for procedural reasons also, Mr. Speaker, I am strongly against 
this legislation. As strongly as I oppose some of the amendments that 
were brought forth to the Rules Committee, I supported the right of 
Members to bring forth those ideas and have them considered, but the 
majority in the Rules Committee rejected them.

During the time that we were in the majority, we never brought a 
wartime supplemental bill to this floor with a closed rule. It is 
unfortunate that the majority is doing so today.

For the substantive reasons that I have mentioned and many others, 
Mr. Speaker, as well as the significant procedural reasons that I have 
touched upon, that this House is being closed down with regard to the 
ability to present amendments today, I urge rejection of this rule as 
well as of the legislation being brought forth today.