---
---

# THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `7bb1c69a7153258644ef7ee1f8199215`
`Mr. HOEKSTRA — 6 March 2008`

---


Mr. HOEKSTRA. Unbelievable. But now 5 weeks ago, when we started into 
this process one more time, we said exactly what my colleague was 
highlighting, both my colleagues, the terrorists have not stopped. They 
continue their attacks in Pakistan. Five weeks ago is when they had 
some major bombings in Pakistan just before the elections. They had the 
major bombing in Afghanistan. But we also then started hearing from al 
Qaeda in Iraq saying they wanted to use Iraq to do what? Do you 
remember? Al Qaeda in Iraq said, we want to use it as a base to attack 
Jerusalem.

And then a major terrorist died in Lebanon. We're not sure exactly 
what the circumstances were. Some think it's Israel, some others say it 
might have been Hezbollah itself. But one of the key leaders of 
Hezbollah passed away, and the statement from


Hezbollah then was, ''we're going to hold Israel accountable.'' And 
what happened today? Martyr Mughniyah, within the last hour, a TV 
station affiliated with Hezbollah, said this group may not be 
affiliated with Hezbollah, but the group, Martyr Mughniyah, as far as 
we can tell, a new terrorist group, along with the Gaza Martyrs' Group, 
which may also be a new terrorist group, claim responsibility for the 
Jerusalem operation.

So, with the events of the last 5 weeks, some new identified 
terrorist groups have popped up. And most likely, if there is any 
intelligence that our allies, because we said, who is going to be 
vulnerable by our diminished capabilities? It's going to be America's 
homeland. It's going to be our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is 
our embassies around the world, and potentially our allies. With what 
al Qaeda in Iraq and what the various organizations have now said after 
the death of Mughniyah, these are new terrorist groups.