# DEMOCRATS WORKING TO SOLVE AMERICA'S PROBLEMS
## `7bc0f1725148cc1dc11917be90b44c12`
`Mr. YARMUTH â€” 14 May 2008`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. It's a reasonable question which we are addressing in 
legislation. And I think the American people are totally justified in 
demanding that the Iraqi people pick up some of the tab when they're 
running a $70 billion surplus per year.

And I was actually encouraged to hear one of the representatives of 
the government over the weekend talk about the fact that they intend to 
do that. But just their intentions don't seem to be much because, 
again, as you said, there is no accountability method in place.

But I want to reference one other thing. And it's getting off on a 
little tangent, but you talked about the merger between Delta and 
Northwest, and that's being examined by the Transportation Committee 
now, and I'm glad it is.

One of the things that I've been talking about more and more when I'm 
talking to the good people of Louisville, Kentucky is, you know, we've 
allowed, over the last couple of decades, maybe 3 decades, companies to 
get bigger and bigger and bigger in this country. We really haven't 
enforced the anti-trust laws in this country in 30 years. And we did it 
because they said, oh, you know, it's a global economy. We need to be 
able to get big so we can compete.

Well, unfortunately, what they generally mean when they say they want 
to get big is they want to get big in revenues. They don't want to get 
big in job creation. They don't want to get big in many things that are 
the goals that we hold for this country. And when they want to get big, 
it generally means they want to save money. So they merge, and then 
they eliminate jobs, and they close facilities, and they destabilize 
communities, all in the name of being able to compete in the global 
economy.



And what concerns me is--and we had a hearing not too long ago in the 
Oversight Committee in which we talked to several of the CEOs of very 
large corporations, and this was about corporate executive 
compensation. And I asked three of the executives, When you have these 
compensation committee meetings when you're deciding what your CEO is 
going to be paid and what your top management is going to be paid, do 
you ever talk about the impact of these huge salaries and compensation 
packages on the morale of your employees? Do you ever talk about how 
you could make life better for your working people, your employees? Do 
you ever talk about how you can improve the communities that you 
occupy, that you serve?

And the answer was very candid, and they said, No. It's always about 
just how we get the stock price up and how we compensate our 
executives.

So the question I ask, and it's one that I hope we continue to ask in 
this Congress, if you want to get big, we need to make sure that your 
goals are the same as the American people's goals; and I think people 
on both sides of the aisle would say we have the same goals for the 
American people.


We want good jobs, we want stable communities, and we want secure 
families. And if we have a corporate world that has goals that are 
antithetical to that, then we need to revise our policy on anti-trust 
allowing these mergers and try to say if you want permission from us to 
get big and you want to operate in a certain way, we want you to 
operate in a way that benefits the American people and not just your 
CEOs and your stockholders.