---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2764, THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,  FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `7bc373d924897614f27dda3590ebde36`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Florida 
for yielding me this time.

I also join in the praise for the bipartisan work of the Foreign 
Operations Subcommittee, the excellent work of Chairwoman Lowey and 
Ranking Member Wolf.

Mr. Speaker, the job of the next President of the United States, 
whoever that may be, whatever party that person may represent, is very 
straightforward. They are going to have to reintroduce America to the 
world. They are going to have to reintroduce the America of 
cooperation, of working together, of multilateralism rather than 
unilateralism, of diplomacy rather than force, and strength through 
persuasion and cooperation.

This Foreign Operations appropriations bill is the introduction to a 
new relationship that America will have with the world and a new 
relationship that our appropriations bill will have with the taxpayers 
of this country. It really does two things. One, it restores 
accountability. That is best seen in the fact that it does not give a 
blank check on more money to Iraq that will go down the sink hole. 
Number two, it recognizes that we have to be a participant in 
cooperating with other countries in order to solve global problems.

Mr. Speaker, our Appropriations Committee is to be commended for this 
strong bipartisan work. Our image in the world has been tarnished by 
the foreign policies of this administration, from the war in Iraq to 
the rejection of multilateral agreements such to the Kyoto Protocol, 
the International Criminal Court, to human rights abuses at Abu Ghraib 
and Guantanamo. Through this appropriations measure, we have the 
opportunity to send the world a different message about America's 
priorities. We do that in this bill by allocating $6.5 billion to 
combat global health crises, including HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and 
malaria. We have provided needed help to those suffering from genocide 
in Darfur by investing $949 million in development assistance.

We offer needed food, water and shelter for refugees around the 
world, and we make good on our obligations to international 
organizations investing $334 million in multilateral programs to 
address the global challenges, and we pay $1.3 billion in U.N. 
peacekeeping operations. The bill also helps protect the American 
taxpayer and brings needed accountability from the administration.

I would also like to commend the committee for restoring funding for 
a small but extremely important initiative, the Middle East Regional 
Cooperation, or MERC program. Established in 1979 by my colleague from 
California, MERC provides grants for collaborative scientific research 
projects between Israel and its Arab neighbors. MERC grants have made 
it possible for many Vermont students to travel to the Middle East to 
conduct environmental research at an innovative program called the 
Arava Institute.

This incredible program, working together on difficult environmental 
problems, has allowed Vermonters and others to live and work alongside 
Israeli and Arab colleagues, working together on environmental problems 
that affect the entire region. MERC grants have made this experience 
possible, and I applaud the committee for working to make sure this 
invaluable program receives the funding it deserves.

Mr. Speaker, in addition to supporting important work in the Middle 
East, this bill implements needed changes to our policy in another 
conflicted region, Colombia, as was eloquently described by the 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern). This bill recognizes that 
it is time for change in our Colombia policy.