# IRAQ
## `7bd98b4bb7f10f8fc60a07594c543778`
`Mr. SPECTER — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, it continues to be my hope that there 
will be a consensus reached among Senators as to how to move forward in 
Iraq. This is indispensable if there is to be an accommodation between 
the President and Congress.

I had hoped to make a floor statement on Iraq during the Senate's 
consideration of the DoD authorization bill, but the majority leader 
took that bill off the floor after there was only consideration of the 
Levin-Reed amendment. That action deprived the Senate of an opportunity 
to consider the Warner-Lugar and Salazar-Alexander amendments and 
perhaps other amendments which might have secured the requisite 60 
votes to structure a new U.S. policy for Iraq.

When a tally is made of the Senators who have voted for or 
cosponsored legislation aimed at altering or reevaluating U.S. policy 
in Iraq, the total is 62. When Senators are added who have made public 
statements critical of the President's policy, the number could 
possibly reach or exceed two-thirds of the Senate membership.

A July 2007 vote, had it been successful, would have had no binding 
effect since the President already had sufficient funding to continue 
until September 30 and would need additional funding only in the next 
fiscal year, 2008, beginning October 1.

The time for Congress to have asserted its constitutional power of 
the purse to withhold funding was this spring during consideration of 
supplemental funding for approximately $120 billion. On April 26, 2007, 
following a vote in the House of Representatives of 218-208, the Senate 
passed the conference report to H.R. 1591, the fiscal year 2007 Troop 
Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability 
Appropriations Act on a vote of 51-46. However, because this bill 
contained target dates for withdrawal, on May 1, 2007, the President 
vetoed the bill.

After the House failed to gather the two-thirds majority required to 
override the President's veto, on May 24, 2007, the Congress approved a 
bill, H.R. 2206, which did not include targeted dates for withdrawal 
and which was subsequently signed into law by President Bush on May 25, 
2007, Public Law 110-28.

When the Levin-Reed amendment was considered, it was a forgone 
conclusion that there were not anywhere near 60 votes to invoke 
cloture, let alone the 67 votes needed to override a veto. With the 
removal of the bill from the floor, the Senate was prevented from 
considering alternatives to the Levin-Reed proposal, and denied the 
opportunity to have a vote or votes to demonstrate dissatisfaction with 
the President's policy.

This action deprived the Senate of an opportunity to craft a 
compromise around Warner-Lugar or Salazar-Alexander to get the 60 votes 
and put the president squarely on notice that funding in September was 
unlikely unless the President's policy showed significant progress. 
Perhaps the Levin-Reed proponents would have rejected the other 
amendments as being insufficiently forceful, but Senators never know 
for sure how they will ultimately vote until there is floor debate, 
careful analysis, informal discussions on the floor and corridors, and 
talk in the cloakroom. Much of the Senate's productive work occurs 
during quorum calls when Members hassle and jawbone on the issues. 
Since so many Senators demonstratively want a change, it was at least 
worth a try in daylight compared to the futile all-nighter.

Of particular interest to me were the provisions of the Warner-Lugar 
proposal on having a contingency plan and redefining the mission. For 
three decades, Senators Lugar and Warner have served on the Foreign 
Relations Committee and Armed Services Committee, respectively, with 
both rising to chairman. Their combined tenures in the Senate are more 
than 60 years. To say these colleagues bring a significant amount of 
thought and authority to this debate is an understatement.

Regrettably, we did not have the opportunity to debate and vote on 
their proposal.

The Warner/Lugar amendment is an attempt to ensure that the U.S. is 
prepared to implement changes to U.S. policy following the September 
report, to be provided by General Petaeus and Ambassador Crocker, on 
the progress


of the President's current strategy in Iraq.

The Warner-Lugar amendment recognizes that conditions in Iraq have 
changed considerably since the initial invasion to topple Saddam 
Hussein's regime and States that the joint resolution passed by 
Congress in 2002 to authorize ''the use of the Armed Forces of the 
United States against Iraq'' requires ''review and revision.''

In addition, the amendment calls for enhanced U.S. diplomatic efforts 
to work with the Government of Iraq to establish a consistent 
diplomatic forum related to Iraq that is open to all parties in the 
Middle East. Because of the potential for the Warner-Lugar amendment to 
provide a basis for a Senate consensus, I am cosponsoring this 
amendment.

As explained on the floor by Senator Lugar on July 13, 2007:




 The purpose of the forum would be to improve transparency 


 of national interests so that neighboring states and other 


 actors avoid missteps . . . Such a forum could facilitate 


 more regular contact with Syria and Iran with less drama and 


 rhetoric. The existence of a predictable and regular forum in 


 the region would be especially important for dealing with 


 refugee problems, regulating borders, exploring development 


 initiatives, and preventing conflict between the Kurds and 


 Turks.


This type of planning and diplomatic engagement should be occurring 
today. I believe a vote confirming this could have led the President to 
do that.

Prior to the 2002 U.S. invasion of Iraq, I publicly stated my 
concerns about the potential fallout from such an action. On February 
13, 2002, I took to the Senate floor to express my belief that there 
should be a comprehensive analysis of the threat posed by Saddam 
Hussein and what an invasion would amount to in terms of U.S. 
casualties:




 We need to know, with some greater precision, the threat 


 posed by Saddam Hussein with respect to weapons of mass 


 destruction. There also has to be an analysis of what the 


 costs would be, some appraisal in terms of casualties. Then 


 there is the issue as to what happens after Saddam Hussein is 


 toppled.




 As I stated on the Senate floor on December 6, 2006:




 It has been my view that had we known Saddam Hussein did 


 not have weapons of mass destruction, we would not have gone 


 into Iraq.


Eight months after my February 13 statement, on October 7, 2002, I 
returned to the floor to express my concerns over the lack of a 
comprehensive plan for Iraq:




 What happens after Saddam Hussein is toppled has yet to be 


 answered in real detail.



 What was the extent of Saddam Hussein's control over 


 weapons of mass destruction? What would it cost by way of 


 casualties to topple Saddam Hussein? What would be the 


 consequence in Iraq? Who would govern after Saddam was 


 toppled? What would happen in the region, the impact on the 


 Arab world, and the impact on Israel?



 In previous briefings, I have sought the administration 


 plan as to what will be done after Saddam Hussein is toppled, 


 and I think that is an area where a great deal more thought 


 needs to be given. The situation in Iraq would obviously be 


 contentious, with disputes between the Sunnis and the 


 Shi'ites, with the interests of the Kurds in an independent 


 state, and it means a very long-term commitment by the United 


 States.


Five years later, we are in the midst of a highly controversial troop 
surge in Iraq.

Following the announcement of the President's plan to surge, I met 
with President Bush on two occasions. Following these meetings I told 
the President directly that I could not support a troop surge. I also 
had extensive discussions on the President's plan with the highest 
ranking members of his national security team including Secretary of 
State Condoleezza Rice, National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley and 
Director of National Intelligence John Negroponte.

I met with GEN David Petraeus on January 31, 2007, who has been 
confirmed as the United States' top commander in Iraq. Following these 
meetings, I was not convinced the administration possessed a 
comprehensive plan to deal with the situation in Iraq and too many 
uncertainties persisted to warrant my support for a surge of U.S. 
personnel.

On February 5, 2007, I spoke on the Senate floor regarding the surge:




 On this state of the record, I cannot support an additional 


 allocation of 21,500 troops because it is my judgment that 


 would not be material or helpful in what is going on at the 


 present time. This comes against the backdrop of extensive 


 hearings in the Armed Services Committee and Foreign 


 Relations Committee, and in the context of the military 


 having given many estimates with many of those in key command 


 position saying that no more troops are necessary. This comes 


 with the Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki saying a variety of 


 things but at some times saying he doesn't want any more 


 troops.


At this time, I have not seen a plan that sufficiently addresses a 
strategy for victory in Iraq. Various reports indicate military 
advisers differ on the impact of an increased troop level in Iraq. It 
is not clear what the surge will ultimately accomplish and if it will 
be successful. Nonetheless, there are indicators that mandate we create 
contingency plans and consider other options. The Iraqi Government has 
failed to deliver on prior pledges which makes me hesitant to think 
they have the ability to deliver on new ones. According to many 
measurements, progress in Iraq has been poor and the situation is 
deteriorating. What is clear is that any solution will necessarily 
include political compromises by Iraq's various sects as well as an 
emphasis on a regional dialogue--something for which the Iraq Study 
Group advocated.

Another proposal offered by Senators Salazar and Alexander would have 
used the work of the Iraq Study Group, which was led by former 
Secretary of State James Baker and former Representative Lee Hamilton, 
as a guide for our policy in Iraq. This legislation garnered bipartisan 
support including five Republicans and seven Democrats.

The amendment states that U.S. support should be conditioned on the 
Government of Iraq's political will and substantial progress towards 
national reconciliation, revision of de baathification laws, equitable 
sharing of Iraqi oil revenues, free and fair provincial elections and 
mechanisms to ensure the rights of woman and minorities.

Like the Warner-Lugar proposal, this amendment calls for enhanced 
diplomatic efforts. Specifically, the measure calls for a new 
''Diplomatic Offensive'' to deal with the problems in Iraq and the 
region; energize other countries to support reconciliation in Iraq; 
engage directly with the Governments of Iran and Syria to obtain their 
commitment to constructive policies towards Iraq and the region, 
encourage the holding of a conference in Baghdad of neighboring 
countries and convey to the Iraqi Government that continued American 
support is contingent upon substantial progress toward and assist in 
the achievement of the milestones.

Because of the potential for the Salazar-Alexander amendment to 
provide a basis for a Senate consensus, I am cosponsoring this 
amendment. There is no inconsistency in cosponsoring both Warner-Lugar 
and Salazar-Alexander. They complement each other.

Both the Warner-Lugar and Salazar-Alexander proposals address the 
issue of diplomacy in the region. I have consistently urged the 
administration to work with Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria, 
in order to develop cooperative stabilization efforts. To that end, I 
have met with President Bashar Assad of Syria. I have met with Iran's 
Ambassadors to the United Nations, Seyed Muhammed Hadi Nejad Hosseinian 
and Muhammad Javad Zarif, on four occasions in New York and Washington, 
DC. Additionally, I was the only Member of Congress to attend the 
September 2006 address by former President Khatami at the National 
Cathedral.

During my meetings with Iranian officials, I developed a proposal for 
an exchange of visits by Members of Congress to Iran and Iranian 
parliamentarians to the United States to try to open dialogue between 
our two countries. In January 2004, my efforts to foster such a 
dialogue were successful. There was a tentative agreement for U.S. 
Members of Congress to meet with Iranian parliamentarians in Geneva. 
Regrettably, this parliamentary exchange never came to fruition.

In an effort to jumpstart this exchange, on May 3, 2007, I sent a 
letter, with support from Senators Biden, Hagel and Dodd and 
Representatives Lantos, English, Moran, Gilchrest and Meeks, to the 
Speaker of Iran's Parliament suggesting we convene a meeting of U.S. 
and Iranian parliamentarians.

I have amplified my strong belief that dialogue with nations such as 
Iran and Syria is necessary in an extensive Senate speech on June 16, 
2006 and most recently in an essay ''Dialogue


With Adversaries'' published in the winter edition of The Washington 
Quarterly. While we can't be sure that dialogue will succeed, we can be 
sure that without dialogue there will be failure.

I am not alone in calling for enhanced dialogue with U.S. 
adversaries. Of the many suggestions gleaned from the Baker-Hamilton 
commission, one passage crystallizes their conclusion:




 Our most important recommendations call for new and 


 enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq and the 


 region, and a change in the primary mission of U.S. forces in 


 Iraq that will enable the United States to begin to move its 


 combat forces out of Iraq responsibly. We believe that these 


 two recommendations are equally important and reinforce one 


 another.


However, the President's plan places a disproportionate emphasis on 
military force while neglecting the needed diplomacy and political 
efforts.

Having served in the Senate for 26 years, holding the chairmanship of 
the Intelligence Committee and senior positions on the Appropriations 
subcommittees on Defense and Foreign Operations, I am aware of what 
challenges nations like Iran and Syria pose to the United States. A 
world in which Iran seeks nuclear weapons and supports terrorist groups 
such as Hezbollah is not a safe world. A world in which Syria provides 
refuge for Hamas and Hezbollah and permits its territory to be used as 
a conduit for terrorism is counterproductive to peace and stability. I 
expressed my views on the danger the connectivity between Iran, Syria 
and Hezbollah poses to peace and security in an August 2, 2006, floor 
statement.

Today, however, Americans are not dying from nuclear weapons or from 
direct attacks by Hamas and Hezbollah. Many are dying policing a civil 
conflict.

President Assad, during our December 2006 meeting in Damascus, 
suggested that a conference with regional players and the United States 
would be beneficial to addressing the issues confronting Iraq. On 
January 22, 2007, I conveyed this proposal and my support for it to 
Secretary Rice in a meeting in her office at the State Department. One 
month later, on February 27, 2007, during her testimony before the 
Senate Appropriations Committee, Secretary Rice announced such a 
proposal:




 Before I discuss our specific request for Iraq, I would 


 like to take this opportunity to announce a new diplomatic 


 initiative relating to Iraq's future. I am pleased to tell 


 Members of Congress that there is now being formed a 


 neighbors' conference to support Iraq. Invitees will include 


 Iraq's immediate neighbors, as well as representatives 


 from other regional states, multilateral organizations, 


 and the UN Permanent Five (the U.S., France, Britain, 


 Russia and China). I would note that both Syria and Iran 


 are among Iraq's neighbors invited to attend.



 The violence occurring within Iraq has a decided impact on 


 Iraq's neighbors. Iraq's neighbors have a clear role to play 


 in helping Iraq to move forward, and this conference will 


 provide a needed forum in order to do just that.


Very little has happened to effectuate that ''new diplomatic 
initiative.'' The Iraq Study Group clearly states:




 Given the ability of Iran and Syria to influence events 


 within Iraq and their interest in avoiding chaos in Iraq, the 


 United States should try to engage them constructively.


It would have been my hope that these types of meetings would have 
occurred frequently in the intervening months. However, I am pleased 
that the President has recently indicated a commitment to ramp up 
diplomatic efforts in the region.

Had there been Senate consideration and debate on the Warner-Lugar 
and Salazar-Alexander proposals, there would have been an opportunity 
for more senators to explicitly put the President on notice that 
funding beyond September was in jeopardy without significant 
improvement.

I think this time would have also allowed Members to share concerns 
about the overall struggle to combat terrorism. While considering U.S. 
policy in Iraq, it is important we do not neglect other threats to U.S. 
security.

Waziristan is a semi-autonomous tribal region in Pakistan's 
mountainous Northwest Frontier province that shares a porous border 
with Afghanistan. It is populated primarily by ethnic Pashtuns who do 
not recognize the authority of President Musharrafs government in 
Islamabad. Many of the Taliban who fled Afghanistan in 2001 found safe 
haven in Waziristan with their Pashtun brethren.

Some accounts, including the 9/11 Commission report, indicate 
Pakistan's willingness to assist the United States. Following direct 
U.S. engagement with Pakistan after the September 11 attacks, the 9/11 
Commission report stated that, ''Secretary of State Powell announced at 
the beginning of an NSC meeting that Pakistani President Musharraf had 
agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism.''

However, that was 6 years ago. According to the Congressional 
Research Service, CRS, ''Despite clear successes in disrupting al-Qaida 
and affiliated networks in Pakistan since 2001, there are increasing 
signs that anti-U.S. terrorists are now benefiting from what some 
analysts call a Pakistani policy of appeasement in western tribal areas 
near the Afghan border.''

GEN Pervez Musharraf took a largely hands-off approach to the region 
after signing a truce with tribal leaders in September 2006. The truce 
came after 4 years of unsuccessful army operations into the region in 
which the government forces suffered heavy casualties and achieved 
little. Some accounts indicate this policy has enhanced al-Qaida's 
abilities: ''By seeking accommodation with pro-Taliban leaders in these 
areas, the Musharraf government appears to have inadvertently allowed 
foreign (largely Arab) militants to obtain safe haven from which they 
can plot and train for terrorist attacks against U.S. and other Western 
targets.''

Assistant Secretary of State Richard A. Boucher confirmed that al-
Qaida thrived under the truce between the tribal leaders and General 
Musharraf: ''they were able to operate, meet, plan, recruit, and obtain 
financing in more comfort in the tribal areas than previously.''

Bruce Riedel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, who 
served for 29 years with the CIA and held various positions such as 
Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Near East 
Affairs at the National Security Council, 1997-2002, stated in his May/
June 2007 essay in Foreign Affairs:




 Al Qaeda is a more dangerous enemy today than it has ever 


 been before and the organization now has a solid base of 


 operations in the badlands of Pakistan and an effective 


 franchise in western Iraq.


Riedel further suggests that:




 The United States and its partners, including NATO, also 


 need to take a firmer position with the Pakistani government 


 to enlist its help in tracking down al-Qaeda leaders. 


 President Pervez Musharraf has taken some important steps 


 against al-Qaeda, especially after its attempts to 


 assassinate him, and he has promised more than once a full 


 crackdown on extremism. But mostly he has sought to tame 


 jihadists--without much success--and his government has 


 tolerated those who harbor bin Laden and his lieutenants, 


 Taliban fighters and their Afghan fellow travelers, and 


 Kashmiri terrorists. Many senior Pakistani politicians say 


 privately that they believe Pakistan's Inter-Services 


 Intelligence (ISI) still has extensive links to bin Laden; 


 some even claim it harbors him. Apprehending a few al-Qaeda 


 officers would not be enough, and so a systematic crackdown 


 on all terrorists--Arab, Afghan, and Kashmiri--is critical. 


 Hence, Pakistan should no longer be rewarded for its 


 selective counterterrorism efforts.


Since September 11, 2001, the United States has provided Pakistan 
with roughly $9 billion in aid. According to the Congressional Research 
Service, CRS:




 The outcomes of U.S. policies toward Pakistan since 9/11, 


 while not devoid of meaningful successes, have neither 


 neutralized anti-Western militants and reduced religious 


 extremism in that country, nor have they tributed 


 sufficiently to the stabilization of neighboring Afghanistan.


As Congress considers administration's request for an additional $785 
million for fiscal year 2008, it is incumbent upon us to evaluate our 
relationship with them and their performance in the war on terror.

Waziristan provides al-Qaida with much of what it lost in Afghanistan 
after September 11, 2001: safe haven; territory to train and base 
operations in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and beyond; and a populace 
sympathetic to their aims. Failing to recognize and address the 
situation in Waziristan risks negating the costly advances made in 
Afghanistan over the past 6 years and jeopardizes U.S. security.

As the Senate continues to deliberate, it is my hope that we will 
return to the proposals offered by Senators Warner, Lugar, Salazar and 
Alexander. These should have been debated in great length as they make 
more


sense in the context of not infringing on the President's authority as 
Commander in Chief. Rather, these bipartisan efforts would allow the 
President to fulfill a congressional requirement that he ought to be 
considering and planning for the next steps.

The Senate is known as the most deliberative body in the world. 
Regrettably, the Senate was not permitted the opportunity to 
demonstrate this as we did not debate the various options before us.

As I stated on the Senate floor on March 14, 2007, during a similar 
debate on whether to continue with the status quo in Iraq or to 
legislate a date certain for withdraw:




 It is equally undesirable, however, to view the current 


 situation in Iraq, which looks like an endless tunnel--a 


 tunnel without a light at the end. We are faced with very 


 considerable discomfort in this body. I think it is very 


 important that we debate this matter, that we exchange our 


 views, that we stimulate discussion that will go beyond this 


 Chamber and will resound throughout the country, resound 


 throughout the editorial pages and the television and radio 


 talk shows, and by our colleagues in the corridors and in the 


 cloakroom so that we can try to work our way through an 


 extraordinarily difficult situation where, as I see it, there 


 is no good answer between the two intractable alternatives to 


 set a timetable where our opponents simply have to wait us 


 out or to keep proceeding down a tunnel which, at least at 


 this juncture, appears to be endless and has no light. We 


 don't know where the end is, let alone to have a light at the 


 end of the tunnel.


In a democracy, the voters ultimately decide U.S. policy. As detailed 
in Federalist No. 57, elected representatives must be responsive to the 
people:




 Duty gratitude, interest, ambition itself, are the chords 


 by which [representatives] will be bound to fidelity and 


 sympathy with the great mass of the people. Hence, the House 


 of Representatives is so constituted as to support in the 


 members an habitual recollection of their dependence on the 


 people. Before the sentiments impressed on their minds by the 


 mode of their elevation can be effaced by the exercise of 


 power, they will be compelled to anticipate the moment 


 when their power is to cease, when their exercise of it is 


 to be reviewed, and when they must descend to the level 


 from which they were raised; there forever to remain 


 unless a faithful discharge of their trust shall have 


 established their title to a renewal of it.


If this is not understood and reflected by elected representatives, 
the framers placed elections into the system to remind them. Federalist 
No. 57 further states:




 The elective mode of obtaining rulers is the characteristic 


 policy of republican government . . . The means relied on in 


 this form of government for preventing their degeneracy are 


 numerous and various. The most effectual one, is such a 


 limitation of the term of appointments as will maintain a 


 proper responsibility to the people.


This was the case last November when the electorate spoke loudly 
disagreeing with United States policy in Iraq. As I stated on March 14, 
2007:




 Last November, the American people spoke in a resounding 


 manner, in a way that could only rationally be interpreted as 


 rejecting the conduct of the war in Iraq.


I am making this extensive floor statement at this time to put the 
administration on notice of my reservations on supporting open-ended 
appropriations for the Iraq war in September. This statement further 
urges the majority leader to structure the Senate debate in September 
to consider the Warner-Lugar amendment, the Salazar-Alexander 
amendment, and other possible amendments, as well as the Levin-Reed 
amendment, to give the Senate the full range of alternatives to provide 
the basis for 60 or more votes to change U.S. policy in Iraq.