# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70,  CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `7be019c76f64a75de462a64f54328230`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to insert in the Record a 
statement by Robert Greenstein, the Executive Director of the Center on 
Budget and Policy Priorities. The statement calls the claims by my 
friends on the Republican side that somehow this is a tax increase in 
this bill, he exposes it as being inaccurate.


























Center on Budget






















and Policy Priorities,



















 Washington, DC, May 20, 2008.


 Statement By Robert Greenstein, Executive Director, on Misleading 
Claims That Congressional Budget Plan Calls for ''Largest Tax Increase 















in History''




 Some claim that the budget plan of the conferees--which the 


 House and Senate are




 scheduled to consider this week--would constitute ''the 


 largest tax increase in history.'' This claim is inaccurate, 


 just as the same claim was inaccurate with regard to the 


 budget resolution that Congress adopted last year. This 


 year's budget plan does not include a tax increase. It 


 actually calls for a $340 billion reduction in revenues, 


 reflecting its assumption that Congress will extend some 


 parts of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts without offsetting the 


 costs.



 The charge that the conferees' plan includes a large tax 


 increase arises not from any policy changes that the plan 


 proposes, but instead from policies enacted in 2001 and 2003. 


 Those policies put in place tax cuts that President Bush 


 proposed, but also provided for those tax cuts to expire at 


 the end of 2010. The budget plan assumes that Congress will 


 amend current law to extend some of the expiring tax cuts 


 (especially those affecting middle-class families) and make 


 other changes in tax policy, but it also assumes Congress 


 will partly offset the cost of such changes. The plan does 


 not assume that Congress will increase total revenues above 


 what the federal government expects to collect under current 


 policies--to the contrary, it assumes Congress will reduce 


 total revenues below what is expected under current policies.



 The President's tax cuts expire in 2010 because their 


 supporters deliberately designed them that way, in order to 


 fit the tax cuts within the cost constraints imposed by the 


 budget resolutions that Congress adopted in 2001 and 2003. 


 While acknowledging that their real goal was to make the tax 


 cuts permanent, supporters of those measures opted to 


 ''sunset'' the tax cuts before the end of the ten-year budget 


 window, partly to avoid recognizing the cost of permanent tax 


 cuts. Now, a few years from the tax cuts' expiration, some of 


 these same supporters are acting as though the tax cuts are 


 already permanent and that any proposal to offset any portion 


 of the cost of extending them is a ''tax increase.''



 To extend the tax cuts without paying for them--and to 


 attack those who simply seek to require that Congress at 


 least partially pay for any extension of the tax cuts--


 further heightens the irresponsible fiscal nature of the 


 original actions.


Mr. Speaker, the fact of the matter is that George Bush and the 
previous Republican Congresses have created a mess. We are faced with 
the largest deficits and debt in the history of our country, thanks to 
their fiscally irresponsible policies. We have more people in this 
country who are in poverty because of their policies of neglect. We 
have more people in this country who are hungry because of their 
policies of neglect. Our veterans are finally, at long last, because of 
Democratic policies, getting the benefits and the funding that they 
have earned. But for years, because of Republican policies and because 
of the misplaced priorities of this White House, they have been short-
changed.

We have more people without jobs today because of their neglectful 
policies. Our infrastructure is falling apart. I come from 
Massachusetts. We have an aging infrastructure. We have bridges in my 
State that are older than some of the other States in this country, and 
the Federal response has been to provide less and less and less 
funding. The infrastructure is crumbling. It's a danger to people. But 
those burdens, the cost burden has fallen on the States and our local 
communities.

So I can go on and on about their policies, which have literally 
created a mess, including these high gas and oil prices that we are 
paying right now because they didn't think it was important to invest 
in alternative renewable clean energy sources. So here we are, and 
thankfully, Mr. Speaker, thankfully, the American people get it, as we 
have seen in the recent elections where, in traditional hard-core 
Republican areas of this country, voters have said, Enough. We have had 
enough. And they have voted for Democrats.

Mr. Speaker, one of the things about this budget that we are talking 
about here today is that it rejects the President's harmful cuts in a 
number of programs that people in this country think are valuable. This 
conference agreement on the budget rejects the President's deep cuts 
affecting a wide range of services and constituencies, including $479 
billion of Medicare cuts and $94 billion to cuts in Medicaid over 10 
years. That was the Presidents' priorities. That was the Republican's 
priorities. This budget, the Democratic budget, rejects those cuts.

It also rejects more than $18 billion over 5 years in new fees for 
veterans and military retirees. How in good conscience could anybody 
propose that, given the fact that our men and women are serving with 
such great distinction in Afghanistan and Iraq. They deserve better 
than more fees.

This budget also rejects cuts to services that help our communities, 
including the community development block grant and the low-income home 
energy assistance program, which is so important in the Northeast and 
in other parts of this country.

This budget, the Democratic budget, rejects the President's call for 
the elimination of several State and local law enforcement programs, 
including the State criminal alien assistance program, Byrne Grants, 
and the COPS program. This Democratic budget also says no to the 
President's cuts to EPA grants that help protect public health and 
maintain environmental quality.

So we have different priorities as Democrats than the Republicans 
have put forward over the years. The budget that we are proposing 
strengthens our economy. It provides crucial funding for the Democratic 
Innovation Agenda and the America Competes Act to enhance our 
competitive edge. It increases funding for math and science education 
and research.

We understand, Mr. Speaker, that it is important to invest in our 
educational institutions. It is important to invest in math, science, 
and engineering now so that we can be competitive in this global 
economy, so that we can be the place where the jobs of tomorrow locate.

This budget that we are proposing, Mr. Speaker, increases funding for 
efficient and renewable energy programs. It rejects the President's 
cuts to research, as well as his proposed cuts to weatherization 
assistance for lower income families, and it invests in renewable clean 
energy alternatives. This budget invests in education, as I mentioned. 
It provides significantly more than the President proposed. And it 
invests in infrastructure, in our highways, water, and other 
infrastructure by providing sufficient funding in a reserve fund to 
facilitate new initiatives in a deficit-neutral manner.

On a whole range of issues, Democrats have decided to chart a very 
different course than what the Republicans have proposed for the 
previous years. I am proud of the fact that we are moving this country 
in a different direction, and the sad part is that we have to dig 
ourselves out of this mess that they created.

This is a budget that I think we can be proud of, and I would urge 
all my colleagues to support it.

I reserve my time at this point.