# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `7be33b443be4f721fd4a194cf44d442c`
`Mr. REID — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I move to concur in the House amendment.

Mr. President, more than 4 years ago, the Bush administration took 
this Nation to war in Iraq--took this Nation to war in Iraq without 
sufficient troops, without a plan to win the peace, and without truth 
regarding Saddam Hussein's nonexistent weapons of mass destruction or 
his nonexistent links to al-Qaida.

Nearly 51 months later--6 months longer than it took this Nation to 
defeat Germany and Japan in World War II--the violence in Iraq 
continues and the cost to our military and our Nation has been 
frightening. More than 3,400 American troops have made the ultimate 
sacrifice--death. Nine were killed yesterday and two more today in this 
escalating violence across Iraq in which we are losing our brave men 
and women. Guard and Reserve units all across America lack equipment to 
do their jobs at home and in Iraq. U.S. citizens have provided nearly 
half a trillion dollars to cover the cost of this intractable civil 
war. And because of this war, our Nation has been totally distracted in 
its effort to defeat those who attacked us on 9/11. Indeed, more than 5 
years after 9/11, Osama bin Laden is still free, and al-Qaida remains 
an important force.

Throughout all this, our military has performed heroically. Our 
troops have done everything asked of them and even more. Our troops 
toppled a dictator and gave the Iraqis a chance to establish a new 
government and a new way of life. Unfortunately, the Bush 
administration did not provide them a strategy to match that sacrifice. 
Iraq is now in a state of civil war, with no end in sight, and our 
valiant troops are caught in the middle.

Instead of accepting this reality, President Bush has stubbornly 
refused to change course. Instead of listening to his military 
commanders who say there is no military solution in Iraq, he has 
plunged our forces further into sectarian fighting. Instead of 
accepting a bipartisan path in Iraq offered by Congress and even the 
Iraq Study Group, this President stubbornly clings to his failed ''my 
way or the highway'' approach to governing America.

MG John Batiste, who commanded the First Infantry Division in Iraq, 
says this about the President's failed Iraq policy:




 Here is the bottom line: Americans must come to grips with 


 the fact that our military alone cannot establish a 


 democracy. We cannot sustain the current operational tempo 


 without seriously damaging the Army and Marine Corps. Our 


 troops have been asked to carry the burden of an ill-


 conceived mission.


Earlier this year, former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger 
said: The problems in Iraq are more complex than Vietnam, and military 
victory is no longer possible. Henry Kissinger said--and I repeat--the 
problems in Iraq are more complex than Vietnam, and military victory is 
no longer possible.

GEN George Casey, former Commander of U.S. Forces in Iraq, and 
currently Chief of Staff of the Army, said:




 It has always been my view that a heavy and sustained 


 military presence was not going to solve the problem in Iraq.





That was General Casey. Six months ago, the Iraq Study Group said the 
situation in Iraq was grave and deteriorating. The civil war in Iraq 
has only gotten more pronounced since then. Unfortunately, the 
President's escalation strategy has not produced the positive results 
we seek. Attacks on U.S. forces have increased, not decreased. Since 
the onset of this latest surge, more than three U.S. soldiers have been 
killed every day. Nearly 90 soldiers have been killed this month so 
far, and almost 400 since the escalation plan began. Sectarian killings 
have increased to presurge levels.

According to today's Washington Post newspaper, over 300 unidentified 
corpses, most dumped in streets and alleys and water sewer systems, 
showing signs of torture and execution, were found all across the 
capital of Iraq in the month of May. And the month of May is not over.

Four million Iraqis, including 1.6 million children, have fled their 
homes because of the violence, setting the stage for a massive 
humanitarian crisis.

Our military has been pushed to the breaking point. To make up for 
the shortages of combat-ready forces, tours of duty have now been 
extended from 12 to 15 months, with many soldiers now in their third 
and fourth tours.

Mr. President, I spoke just last week to one Nevada family whose son 
was killed in action last week. We all remember there were three 
hostages, prisoners of war. I called the father, and he said: I pray 
that my boy is one of the three. There were four that were 
unidentified. Well, his prayers were not answered. His son was the one 
incinerated in the humvee, and they had to wait until they took DNA to 
find out it was his son.

This soldier had survived four vehicle explosions during his four 
tours of duty. That is too much to ask of any soldier or his family. 
Perhaps, not surprisingly after all, this soldier expressed 
reservations about the war in Iraq, is what he told his best friend 
before he left for the fourth time. His grandfather said:




 It is a waste of young lives. We should not be in the 


 middle of a civil war.

Meanwhile, our capacity to respond to other challenges around the 
world has been greatly constrained. Terror attacks across the world are 
up, not down. U.S. influence and standing is down, not up. By focusing 
on Iraq and doing little or nothing in the rest of the Middle East, 
this critical region has been destabilized even further and stands even 
closer to a broader regional war.

The American people saw all this unfolding last November and they 
reached a conclusion that enough was enough. That is why they sent this 
President and Congress a clear and unmistakable challenge and a direct 
message: Find a responsible end to this war.

That is what congressional Democrats have done. From the very first 
day of this democratically controlled Congress, we have made it clear 
to the President that the days of blank checks and green lights for his 
failed policy are over. After 6 years of rubberstamping President 
Bush's failed policy, Congress has reasserted its rightful position in 
our constitutional form of Government.

Democrats have held more hearings on Iraq in 4 months than the 
Republican-controlled Congress held in 4 years. We have repeatedly 
forced our Republican colleagues in the Senate and in the House to 
debate and vote on where people stand with respect to the President's 
failed Iraq policy. With each step we have taken, the pressure on the 
President and his Republican allies to change course has grown.

The most important step we have taken occurred last month. In the 
face of heavy White House pressure and more misleading statements by 
administration officials, Congress was able to pass a bill that did 
what the American people asked us to do: No. 1, fully fund our troops 
and, No. 2, immediately change the direction of the war in Iraq.

In addition, the bill provides much needed funds to procure 
additional equipment for our Guard and Reserve and to provide health 
care services for active-duty troops and America's heroic veterans.

As the Senate Democratic leader, I am very proud of Senate Democrats. 
In less than 4 months of Democratic control, with virtual Democratic 
unanimity, Congress sent the President binding language that would 
truly compel him to do what the American people desire. Unfortunately, 
though, the President vetoed that important legislation, leaving him 
further isolated from the American people, military experts, and an 
increasing number of his own political party.

In the days since that veto, we have had negotiations with the 
administration about how to proceed. The President made it very clear 
as late as last night that he intended to veto any effort to implement 
timelines, transition the mission, or ensure the readiness of our 
troops before they are deployed. Furthermore, here in the Senate our 
minority colleagues made it clear they are determined to place 
procedural hurdles, most notably requiring 60 votes rather than a 
simple majority, in front of those who seek to significantly alter the 
President's Iraq policy. Democratic unanimity with a handful of 
Republicans will not be sufficient to do what we believe must be done. 
Until more Republicans develop the courage to step forward and insist 
that the President change course in Iraq, Republican intransigence has 
left us with no good options.

How to vote on this bill before us is a very difficult and personal 
decision for each Member of this Senate. There are many thoughtful 
members of my caucus who believe we should vote no, and continue to 
vote no until the President and his supporters come to their senses. 
There are equally thoughtful members who believe we must vote yes 
because this bill does take a step forward in holding the President and 
the Iraqis accountable and it does increase pressure on this 
administration and its supporters to change direction in Iraq.

Although this is a very close call for me, as I suspect it is for 
many Senators, I have decided to support this measure. But let me say, 
I know those who oppose this bill care as deeply about the safety of 
our troops as I do. They know I care as deeply about changing the 
course in Iraq as they do.

This bill before us clearly does not go as far as a bipartisan 
majority of Congress would like. But it goes a lot further than the 
President and his supporters were willing to go earlier this month. 
That is why we saw this headline in a recent edition of the Los Angeles 
Times. Here is what it said: ''Senate Tilting On Iraq Policies; 
Republicans Show Their Strongest Willingness Yet To Rein In Bush.''

Here is what the bill requires of the administration and Iraqis, the 
one before us tonight: It establishes 18 benchmarks on which to measure 
the Iraqi Government's performance; restricts the use of foreign aid to 
the Iraqi Government should they fail to make meaningful progress; 
requires the President to certify that the Iraqi Government deserves 
these funds even if they fail to perform as promised; requires the 
administration to testify before Congress and an independent assessment 
by the Government Accountability Office on the performance of the Iraqi 
Government; requires the President submit a report on the combat 
proficiency of Iraqi security forces; requires the President to 
redeploy our troops if the Iraqi Government concludes our presence is 
no longer desired; restricts use of Defense Department funding until 
Congress receives information about contractors in Iraq; and states 
official U.S. policy precludes permanent military bases in Iraq, no 
torture of detainees, and no designs on Iraqi oil.


When the President signs the bill, that will be the law. Some of this 
language is taken from an amendment offered by Senator John Warner last 
week. Senator Warner offered his amendment as an alternative to the 
Feingold-Reid amendment that would have immediately transitioned the 
mission in Iraq and required a phased redeployment by April 2008. 
Naturally I said the Feingold-Reid language was far superior to the 
Warner language. However, today we don't have the option of choosing 
between Feingold-Reid and Warner. I wish we did. Although the Warner 
language is weak by comparison to Feingold-Reid, and I so stated on the 
Senate floor last week, I believe we can begin holding the 
administration accountable if we adopt the Warner language plus the 
other Iraq-related provisions contained in this bill, which I have 
outlined.



I know none of these measures comes close to the timelines and 
accountability provisions I supported in the vetoed bill. However, I 
also know these provisions will force the administration to do more 
than they have ever done before. I also know the stakes are too high 
and our obligation to the troops and the country is too great for us to 
stop working to force the President and his supporters to change 
course. The burden for securing and governing Iraq must now rest with 
the Iraqi people.

As General Abizaid said:




 It is easy for Iraqis to reply upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future.


GEN Doug Lute, recently nominated by President Bush to be his war 
czar, said:




 We believe at some point, in order to break this dependence 


 on the coalition, you simply have to back off and let the 


 Iraqis step forward.


As long as I am Democratic leader and this President persists in 
pursuing the worst foreign policy blunder in this Nation's history, the 
American people should know I am determined to fight for change in 
Iraq. The Senate Armed Services Committee reported the fiscal year 2008 
Defense authorization bill earlier today. We will move to it in our 
next work period, which starts in about 10 days. This battle for 
responsible and effective Iraq policy will be joined in the Senate no 
later than when we take up that bill. Senate Democrats will not stop 
our efforts to change our course in this war until either enough 
Republicans join us to reject President Bush's failed policy or we get 
a new President.

In 1941, in an address at Harrow School, Winston Churchill said:




 Never give in. Never give in. Never, never, never. . . .


My colleagues here in the Senate, particularly my Republican 
colleagues, should know this is precisely my attitude when it comes to 
bringing about a change in course in the intractable civil war in Iraq. 
Although I didn't get everything I sought in the bill before us, and 
that is an understatement, I will not give up until the supporters of 
the President's failed policy accept the realities on the ground in 
Iraq, until they accept that the President's plan is not working, that 
this war must come to an end, and that it is time for our troops to 
come home in a safe and responsible way.

Paraphrasing the words of Winston Churchill, when it comes to forcing 
the President to change course in Iraq, Senate Democrats will never 
give in, never give in, never, never, never.

I ask for the yeas and nays.