# IRAQ
## `7be30c9c6b5e43dd2b38107becae5ac2`
`Mr. REID — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, last week the Iraqi people celebrated a very 
rare triumph, they won a soccer game. But their celebration had nothing 
to do with decreased violence, improved distribution of water, 
electricity or other basic necessities or, of course, political 
reconciliation. It was a soccer game. Iraqis were celebrating their 
victory in the Asian Cup soccer championship, as well they should. But 
even during this rare moment of joy, political realities could not be 
ignored. After his game-winning shot, team captain Younis Mahmoud told 
reporters he would not be returning to his home country, and he hoped 
that the American forces would leave Iraq quickly.

The setting, a great victory for the Iraqi soccer team. Their hero, 
their captain, says: I am not going home. I am not returning to Iraq, 
and I want the Americans out.

His words reflect the overwhelming sentiment of the Iraqi people 
whose hopes he carried on his shoulders. A recent poll showed that 70 
percent of Iraqis think American forces make them less safe.

President Bush said 2 weeks ago, the war in Iraq has invited guests, 
and we would leave if asked. They are asking, we are not going.

Yesterday was a day without water in Baghdad. It was 115 degrees. 
There was no water because there was insufficient electric generation 
for water filtration and distribution of water. This was the sixth day 
in a row with virtually no water in the capital city, this huge 
metropolitan area, no water. People are drinking water when they can, 
but it is contaminated, and they are getting sick. Four dead American 
soldiers yesterday.

Meanwhile new evidence emerges by the day. Prime Minister al-Maliki 
is utterly failing to achieve the political reconciliation the country 
so desperately needs. Even worse, there is no evidence he is even 
trying.

Next month the administration will deliver a progress report on Iraq 
to us, the Congress of the United States. We, of course, will take that 
report seriously, but it has been clear for some time that this war and 
President Bush's troop escalation is a tragic failure. General 
Petraeus, whom we hear so much about, has said time and time again, the 
war cannot be won militarily. Many of our colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle have said for months that September would be the turning 
point, that in September, if meaningful progress has not been made, 
they will finally work with us to reach a responsible end to the war.

When we come back in September, the eyes of the world will be on 
those Republicans who made September their month to draw a line in the 
sand. I hope they would back their words up with action. Democrats have 
done everything we can do. All Democrats, we have done everything we 
can do. We need some help from the Republicans to change the course of 
that intractable civil war, costing the American people about $350 to 
$360 million every day. We need to finally take a stand together, 
Democrats and Republicans, to deliver a responsible end to the war that 
the American people demand and deserve and turn our military focus to 
the grave and growing threats we face throughout the world that have 
been ignored by this administration for far too long.
