---
---

# None
## `7be5dfebc57caabf0b60c16c4875570b`
`Mr. KYL — 21 April 2009`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to Ambassador 
Christopher Hill's nomination to serve as the next U.S. Ambassador to 
Iraq. As Senator Brownback and I stated in a letter to Secretary of 
State Clinton regarding Ambassador Hill's nomination:




 Our role as United States Senators is not to choose the 


 President's envoys. However, in the exercise of the Senate's 


 constitutionally mandated role of advising and consenting to 


 nominations, we are required to judge the qualifications by 


 ambassadorial candidates on several levels, not least their 


 past record of dealing with our own branch of government.





I do not believe Ambassador Hill has the requisite experience to be 
our Ambassador to Iraq at this critical time in that young democracy's 
history. Beyond that, serious allegations have been made by members of 
the press as well as Members of this body that call into question Mr. 
Hill's ability to follow orders and his willingness to be forthcoming 
and truthful with the Senate itself. I believe these allegations merit 
much more rigorous review.

Many of my colleagues believe that Iraq is at a critical and fragile 
juncture and that now is no time to delay the installation of our 
Ambassador to that country, and to them I say I could not agree more. 
However, I would also say to them it is even more critical that we send 
an Ambassador who has the proper experience for the tough task ahead of 
him. We should be sending someone who understands the complex and 
unique historical, cultural, and tribal intricacies of those with whom 
he will be interacting and negotiating. We should be sending someone 
who speaks their language, literally. We should be sending someone who, 
over their distinguished career at the State Department, has at least 
had one assignment to the Middle East. Ambassador Hill has had none. At 
no time during his 32 years has he had an assignment there, nor does he 
speak Arabic. Surely, the State Department has at least one 
distinguished diplomat who has career experience in the Middle East.

Some of my colleagues argue that Ambassador Hill's experience in 
Kosovo and Bosnia give him crucial experience solving complex problems 
of ethnic civil wars. After 6 years of, I would hope, lessons learned, 
I am sure my colleagues would agree with me that we should not approach 
the cultural and ethnic nuances in Iraq with a same-thing-only-
different diplomacy. I certainly hope the Obama administration is not 
taking a one-size-fits-all approach to the world.

Iraq's history is not that of Kosovo or Bosnia. Its cultural and 
ethnic makeup is completely unique. We need someone who understands 
Iraq's history, culture, and, yes, language. That is why the choice of 
Ambassador Ryan Crocker was so inspired--a diplomat who, over his 
career at the State Department, had been assigned to Iran, Qatar, 
Lebanon, Egypt, Syria, Afghanistan, and Pakistan--all before he took on 
his assignment as Ambassador to Iraq. In addition, he spoke Persian and 
Arabic.

Much of our recent success in Iraq is because of Ambassador Crocker's 
lifetime of knowledge and understanding of Iraq and its neighbors' 
cultural and ethnic history. While I don't expect a carbon copy of 
Ambassador Crocker, I do assert again that surely the State Department 
has to have at least one distinguished diplomat with relevant 
experience in the Middle East. If it doesn't--if its bench for Iraq is 
one diplomat deep--we need to find out what is going on over at the 
State Department.

Moreover, I worry what signal it sends--when coupled with the recent 
campaign rhetoric--of our commitment to sustain the hard-fought gains 
of the surge by sending an ambassador to Iraq with no experience in the 
region. What message does that send to Iraqi leaders who are nervous 
that the U.S. commitment to finish what we started has ended?

In addition to his lack of Middle East experience, recent press 
reports about Ambassador Hill's conduct as head of the U.S. delegation 
of the six-party talks on the North Korean nuclear issue raise serious 
doubts about his fitness to serve in such a sensitive position as 
Ambassador to Iraq.

Twice, Ambassador Hill allegedly disobeyed orders from the President 
and Secretary Rice not to engage in any bilateral meetings with the 
North Koreans. According to Stephen Hayes of the Weekly Standard:




 On July 9, 2005, [Secretary of State] Rice had given 


 approval for a trilateral meeting with the Chinese and the 


 North Koreans in an effort to get the North Koreans to return 


 to the six-party talks on their nuclear program. . . . The 


 Chinese didn't show up, as they had promised. Hill 


 nonetheless met alone with the North Koreans and gave them an 


 important propaganda victory.


We cannot afford to have diplomats exceeding their authority and 
engaging in freelance diplomacy when they see fit and in direct 
opposition to the wishes of the President and the Secretary of State.

That is why Senator Brownback and I wrote to Secretary Clinton and 
asked her to provide us with all relevant cables and correspondence 
regarding Ambassador Hill's instruction for these two meetings so that 
we can establish the facts. These matters could have been cleared up by 
now if the State Department had responded to the letter that Senator 
Brownback and I sent. It has not chosen to do so. We have no response.

Finally, Senator Brownback raised questions about Ambassador Hill's 
truthfulness to the Senate. The Senator spoke to this matter.

The position of U.S. Ambassador to Iraq is among the most sensitive 
missions we have in the world at this time. It is critical that 
ambassadors follow the letter and spirit of the orders given by the 
President and the Secretary of State. It is equally important that 
anytime an ambassador gives assurances to the Senate that something 
will be carried out, or certain actions will not be engaged in, that 
those assurances be rock solid.

Mr. President, for the reasons I have articulated--and I associate 
myself with the remarks of Senators Brownback and McCain--I regret that 
I cannot support Christopher Hill's nomination to replace Ambassador 
Crocker as U.S. Ambassador to Iraq.