---
---

# None
## `7bea5e69b0a962d3244f20bb50ce713c`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, some refer to this as a bridge fund 
connecting monies from one year to the next to finance this Iraq war.

A bridge is built to overcome an obstacle, and the obstacle here is 
George Bush. Granting this President 50 billion more dollars without 
reasonable restrictions to end this war is just building another bridge 
to nowhere.

Today, instead, we use this funding to build a bridge that brings our 
troops home by beginning a safe, orderly, phased redeployment from 
Iraq.

The President can no longer defy our Constitution as the sole 
''decider.'' America has decided that he's wrong, dead wrong, too many 
deaths wrong, and it's elected representatives in this Congress are now 
declaring ''no more blank checks.''

Despite the sacrifices of our troops in this deadliest year of the 
war, this surge has failed completely to achieve its purpose of 
political progress. ''Retreat,'' you say; you've had a 5-year retreat 
from political reality. Progress, you say; not in Iraq, not in 
political reconciliation; progress, perhaps only in your self-defeating 
propaganda as you repeatedly waved your ''mission accomplished'' 
banner.

The continued cost of this war in hemorrhaged blood and $3 billion of 
taxpayer money every week is not acceptable or sustainable.

Mr. President, no more ''cut-and-run''. We will not cut these 
reasonable restrictions from this legislation, and we will not run from 
your veto threat.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
