# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `7bed0da3559bf4d07efb3c2a4003cc7f`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. I think the gentleman makes an excellent point. This 
country, there are people in this country, the political discourse, we 
agree, we disagree, we debate, but the wonderful thing about it is we 
can do it, and people aren't tortured and drug off to prison and 
killed.

As a matter of fact, I was on the Mall last week in the morning with 
another colleague of ours, and we went up to the war protestors. They 
had their tents up and their signs up. It was really quite a 
magnificent picture of the war protestors, and behind it was the United 
States Capitol.

I started to talk. We were talking about why they were opposed to the


war and why I wanted to continue to support our troops there. I said, 
you know, in some countries of the world, Iraq, Iran, many of those 
countries, almost all of those countries in the Middle East, you cannot 
be doing this. They wouldn't allow you to do this. In fact, they would 
kill you. They would take you off and kill you possibly. And you would 
be lucky if you were killed because most of the time they would torture 
you before they would kill you.

So this country is a great country, and what we are doing over there 
is we are trying to help a nation stabilize, trying to help a nation 
build a democracy, and that is not easy. That is difficult. As our 
colleague from Ohio pointed out, the Revolutionary War in 1776, it took 
13 years for the Constitution.

A story I like to tell, because it happened in my district, during 
the first year of George Washington's second term, we had already got a 
Constitution, we elected a President, George Washington, not once, but 
the second time. In that first year, the Whiskey Rebellion occurred in 
western Pennsylvania. The farmers in western Pennsylvania didn't like 
the tax, so they revolted. So George Washington, it was the only time 
that a Commander in Chief mounted up on a horse and took the soldiers 
into the field, had to ride up into western Pennsylvania and put down 
that rebellion.

We as Americans sometimes forget that it took us a long time until we 
were able to establish democracy. So it is not easy. We need to 
remember our history, that it takes time. It takes time especially when 
you are a nation that has never known democracy; never known democracy, 
but certainly has that feeling, has that sense of wanting freedom.

I think that there is no doubt that the Iraqi people, as well as any 
person, any people in the world, or every people in the world, want 
freedom. They have a desire for freedom.