---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 85, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION  ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `7bee5144d8a957d7244e65d676e7deaa`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 1 April 2009`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, H. Res. 305 provides for general debate on H. Con. 
Res. 85, the budget resolution for fiscal year 2010. Madam Speaker, I 
am honored to stand here today to introduce the fiscal year 2010 House 
budget resolution.

I want to thank my friend, the Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt, 
for all of his incredible work on this budget. He is smart, he is fair, 
and no one cares more about these issues.

I also want to thank our ranking member, Paul Ryan. Even though I 
often disagree with him, I admire his intellect and his dedication to 
his principles. I thought we had a spirited, substantive debate in the 
Budget Committee, and I am sure we will have more of the same here on 
the House floor.

I also would like to thank the staff of the Budget Committee, 
Democrat and Republican, for their tireless effort and their commitment 
to public service.

Madam Speaker, the budget before us today represents a clean break 
from the past. For the last 8 years, President Bush flat out mismanaged 
the Federal budget. How? By enacting huge tax cuts for the wealthiest 
Americans that led to skyrocketing deficits, by spending hundreds of 
billions of dollars on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan without paying 
for them, and by refusing to invest in the American people.

In November, the American people said ''enough,'' and they voted for 
change. They voted for new direction. And that is what this budget is 
all about. We are not only turning the page on the last 8 years, we are 
writing a whole new book, and our budget cuts the deficit by more than 
half by 2013. It cuts taxes for middle-income families by $1.5 
trillion. It creates jobs by investing in health care, clean energy, 
and education.

Now, let me briefly outline those three areas: Fiscal discipline, 
middle-class tax cuts, and investments in the American people.

As I said, our budget will cut the deficit by more than half in 2013. 
In order to get us back on a fiscally sustainable path, the budget 
provides a realistic assessment of our fiscal outlook.

Unlike the Bush administration, we actually budget for the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan instead of hiding them under, quote, emergency 
spending categories. We budget for natural disasters that inevitably 
will occur.

Our budget cuts taxes for 95 percent of Americans. Let me repeat 
that, Madam Speaker, because we are going to hear a lot of rhetoric 
from the other side about taxes. The Democratic budget, the Obama 
budget cuts taxes for 95 percent of Americans. It provides immediate 
relief from the alternative


minimum tax, it eliminates the estate tax in nearly all the States, and 
works to close corporate tax loopholes.

You see, all of us believe in altering the Tax Code. We believe that 
we should reduce the tax burden on the middle class and those trying to 
get into the middle class. We believe that corporations shouldn't be 
allowed to shirk their responsibility by hiding their profits in 
offshore tax havens. The other side believes we should reduce taxes for 
the very wealthiest. It is a simple difference of philosophy. And, most 
importantly, this budget actually invests in the American people.

What a welcome change from the past 8 years. We invest in health care 
reform, not just to improve health care quality and improve coverage, 
but to reduce the crushing burden of health care costs on American 
businesses. Everybody likes to talk about health care reform. This 
budget, the Democratic budget, the Obama budget actually gets it done.

We invest in clean energy in order to create jobs, improve the 
environment, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. We invest in 
renewable energy and energy efficiency. Everybody likes to talk about 
energy independence, but this budget actually gets it done.

We invest in education to reclaim our place as the best educated 
workforce in the world. We work to expand early childhood education and 
to make college more affordable. Everybody likes to talk about 
improving education, but this budget actually gets it done.

So that is what we could do, and that is what we do. As for my 
Republican friends, it is more of the same. Last week, they made a big 
to-do when they introduced their own ''budget.'' In fact, it wasn't 
much of a budget at all, given the fact that it didn't include any 
numbers. What it did include was lots of empty rhetoric and a belief in 
massive tax cuts for the wealthiest.

Madam Speaker, the American people have seen this movie before, and 
they gave it two thumbs down. I know it is April Fool's Day, but don't 
be fooled by my Republican friends.

My Republican friends will talk a lot about the difference in 
economic growth estimates between the Office of Management and Budget 
and the Congressional Budget Office, but here is the thing: There will 
be no growth unless we invest in the American people. There will be no 
growth unless we get a handle on these deficits. There will be no 
growth as long as health care costs and inadequate education and 
dependence on foreign oil keeps us down.

I know that change is hard. I know my Republican friends want to 
cling desperately to the failed policies of the past. But the good news 
is that despite all the nasty press releases and television ads and 
talk radio attacks on the President, the American people still, by 
overwhelming margins, support President Obama's vision for America. 
That is why this budget is so very important.

We are presenting a budget, Madam Speaker, with a conscience. It is a 
budget that believes in the American spirit, and it is a budget that 
fulfills the promises that President Obama made to the American people.

We are at a crucial moment, Madam Speaker. Our country can meet its 
potential. Our children can have a better future. But in order to make 
that happen, we need a change. We need to move in a bold, innovative, 
new direction. We need to pass this budget. I urge my colleagues to 
join me in support of this rule and the underlying bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.