---
---

# CAFE STANDARDS
## `7bffc8413dce96adc51bbfbbd882be3e`
`Mr. CARPER â€” 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, today we have been discussing in the halls 
and corridors and rooms not far from where I many speaking what changes 
we should make with respect to fuel efficiency standards for cars, 
trucks, and vans. There are a lot of aspects of this bill that are 
important. Few are as important as what we are going to do with respect 
to fuel efficiency standards for cars, trucks, and vans, not just for 
the next couple of years but probably for the next 15 years or so.

I want to begin my remarks by saying how important I believe 
manufacturing is. We are neighbors. Both Delaware and Pennsylvania have 
a rich tradition of manufacturing. It is an important part of our 
economy and continues to be. If we are going to be successful as a 
nation in the 21st century, it will be because we have retained a 
vibrant manufacturing base, and we are in danger of seeing that slip 
away. Part of the manufacturing base in my State has been, for 60 years 
or so, a vibrant automobile manufacturing base. We have two auto 
assembly plants in northern Delaware. Outside of Wilmington is a GM 
plant where we manufacture the Pontiac Solstices and Saturn Sky. We 
actually export some of those Saturn Skys to Europe, and we are about 
to start exporting Saturn Skys to South Korea, something we are excited 
about.

In Newcastle County south of Newark along the Maryland line is a 
Chrysler assembly plant where they used to make tanks during World War 
II. Today they make all the Dodge Durangos and all the Chrysler Aspens 
in the world.

On a per capita basis, we build probably as many cars trucks, and 
vans per capita in Delaware as any other State. We are not a big State, 
but auto manufacturing remains an important part of our economic base.

With that as a background, I want to mention the approaching debate 
on CAFE, fuel efficiency standards for our vehicular fleet. There are 
three goals I see. The first goal for me--and I hope for us--is to 
reduce the growth of our dependence on foreign oil, then stop the 
growth of our dependence on foreign oil, and then reduce our dependence 
on foreign oil. Over 60 percent of the oil we use comes from sources 
beyond our borders. We have a trade deficit of about $650 billion. 
Fully one-third of that is attributable to our dependence on foreign 
oil. We need to reduce that dependence.

I was in Iraq the last weekend. We have over 150,000 troops there 
exposed and in danger as I speak. Every time I fill up the tank of my 
car with gas, I am convinced some of the money I spend in buying that 
gas goes to other parts around the world where people take our money, 
and I fear they use it to hurt us. We ought to be smarter than that. 
One of the things we clearly need to do is to reduce our growing 
reliance on foreign oil and eventually, sooner than later, reduce that 
reliance.

The second goal for me is to reduce harmful emissions, the stuff we 
put up in the air. Whether it is nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, 
carbon dioxide, which is the greenhouse gas that leads to global 
warming, those emissions come out of cars, trucks, and vans. For me, 
goal No. 2 is to reduce the incidence of those emissions. It will 
improve our health and reduce the threat we face from climate change 
from greenhouse gases.

The third goal for me and in the context of this legislation is to 
accomplish goal No. 1, reduce our reliance on foreign oil; accomplish 
goal No. 2, reduce the emission of bad stuff into the air; and to do 
that by not further disadvantaging the domestic auto industry in our 
State. So those are the three goals I have for us.

I want to take a moment and look back to 1975. In 1975, the average 
mileage for cars, trucks, and vans was about 14 miles per gallon. For 
several years leading up to 1975, there was a prolonged debate on 
whether we should require more fuel-efficient vehicles. I have asked my 
staff to see if we can find a little bit of what was being said back in 
the mid-1970s as we debated whether to raise over a 10-year period fuel 
efficiency standards from 14 miles per gallon to 27.5 miles per gallon 
for cars and roughly 20 miles per gallon for light trucks and SUVs.

This is a comment from one of the senior officials at General Motors:




 If this proposal becomes law--


The increase over 10 years of CAFE standards to 27.5 miles per 
gallon--




 the largest car the industry will be selling in any volume 


 at all will probably be smaller, lighter, and less powerful 


 than today's compact Chevy Nova.


The Presiding Officer and I are old enough to remember what a Chevy 
Nova looked like. I want to tell you, when we were driving around the 
streets of Washington, DC, or Delaware or Colorado, most of the 
vehicles out there were a lot bigger than a compact Chevy Nova, and 
they were in 1975 as well.

Here is another comment from the debate of the mid-1970s on raising 
CAFE standards. This is from a senior official at Chrysler in 1974.




 In effect this bill would outlaw a number of engine lines 


 and car models, including most full size sedans and station 


 wagons. It would restrict the industry to producing 


 subcompact-size cars, or even smaller ones, within 5 years.


Five years from this was 1979. In 1979, we were still making full 
size sedans and station wagons. We were still making them in 1985. We 
are still making them today. The idea that we would be producing 
subcompact-size cars within 5 years or even 25 years, it never 
happened. Those are a couple of comments that were made in 1974 and 
1975, as we took up the debate.

The Congress decided in 1975 to go ahead and pass more stringent fuel 
efficiency standards for cars, trucks, and vans. Over a 10-year period 
we ramped up so that by 1985, the car fleet was expected to achieve on 
balance 27.5 miles per gallon, and for light trucks and SUVs about 20 
miles per gallon.

I put up these quotes because a good deal of what we have heard from 
the auto industry in recent years, as we have debated whether to return 
to raising fuel efficiency standards, actually sounds a lot like what 
we heard in 1974 and 1975. You could almost take away the years that 
are at the bottom of each of these quotes, and it would be deja vu all 
over again.

For the past 22 years since we raised CAFE standards, what we have 
heard mostly from the domestic auto industry is, if you raise fuel 
efficiency standards further, four things will happen: One, the big 
three--GM, Chrysler, Ford--will lose market share, will lose money. 
They will close plants. They will cut or eliminate jobs. We have heard 
that for pretty much the last 22 years, and for the last 22 years we 
have not raised fuel efficiency standards.

This is a chart where we can see the market share for each company. 
The orange share is Chrysler. The green is Ford. The blue is GM. This 
is 1985. Here we have 20 years later, 2005. Let me just read it. From 
Chrysler to Diamler-Chrysler, when you put that together, you get about 
13.5 percent market share. In effect, Chrysler's market share has 
actually dropped without any change in fuel efficiency standards since 
1985. Their market share has dropped from 1985, if we actually backed 
out Diamler.

From 1985 to 2005, Ford's market share dropped from 22 percent of 
sales to almost 17 percent. That is without any change in CAFE. Over at 
GM, we see market share dropped most precipitously from about 41.5 
percent of the market in 1958 to 26 percent in 2005.

I would say these numbers are actually lower now. Ford is no longer 
at 17 percent of market share. Regrettably, GM is not at 26 percent 
market share. The market share didn't drop because of increases in 
CAFE.

The plants were not closed because of increases in CAFE. Hundreds of 
thousands of people did not lose their jobs


because of increases in CAFE. These companies, last year, collectively, 
lost in the North American automotive operations--Chrysler, GM, Ford--
lost probably, collectively, about $15 billion. That was not because of 
increases in CAFE, because we have not increased fuel-efficient 
standards for 22 years.

We have had a lot of visits in my office in the last several weeks. I 
am sure the Presiding Officer has had folks come to see him from the 
auto manufacturers, probably domestic and foreign. One CEO said to me, 
in a visit last week, his company would have to--if we adopted the 
measure that has been reported out of the Commerce Committee, which is 
the underlying language on CAFE in the bill before us this week--but if 
we adopted that, his company would have to produce cars that got 50, 52 
miles per gallon.

I said: Well, let's think about that. Let's talk about that. You will 
recall the measure before us today says that by 2020, overall, NHTSA--
an arm of the Department of Transportation--would have to have overseen 
an increase in the fuel efficiency standards of cars, trucks, and vans; 
that, overall, cars, trucks, and vans put together would, beginning by 
the year 2020, have 35 miles per gallon.

What most people do not understand is that trucks, light trucks, and 
SUVs do not have to get 35 miles per gallon under the language in the 
bill by 2020. But overall, when you combine cars, trucks, vans, and 
SUVs from the different companies that sell cars in this country, they 
have to get 35 miles per gallon.

Now, let's take a look at a chart that lists a bunch of auto 
companies. It is a little hard to follow, but I ask you all to bear 
with me. The effect of the legislation that is before us, the 
underlying bill, would mean--DaimlerChrysler builds more light trucks, 
SUVs. They are a truck-heavy company, as opposed to, we will say, 
Volkswagen. Volkswagen builds mostly cars. They do not build much in 
the way of light trucks or SUVs and sell that in this country.

But the car companies, the truck companies that tend to build the 
trucks, light trucks, and SUVs, they would end up with a requirement--
between now and 2020--a requirement by NHTSA to have a fuel economy of 
something less than 35 miles per gallon. For the vehicle makers that 
are more heavily on the car side, as opposed to the light trucks and 
SUVs, they are going to expect to have a fuel efficiency standard north 
of, higher than 35 miles per gallon.

In this case, Volkswagen, if they continue to have the mix they have 
of vehicles in 2005, they would have to have in their mix of product 
about 38, 39 miles per gallon. So this is not a monolithic number. It 
is not 35 miles per gallon for trucks, 35 miles per gallon for cars. It 
is not 35 miles per gallon for each of these auto manufacturers.

But the idea is, when you put them all together, at the end of the 
day, we want, in 2020, for NHTSA to have presided over a process that 
gets our fleet of vehicles sold in this country, in 2020, to 35 miles 
per gallon.

Now, for years we have heard our friends from Detroit say: Protect us 
in this way. Protect us so we don't have foreign competitors--who build 
a lot of energy-efficient cars--don't let them use the high miles per 
gallon they get from their fuel-efficient cars to allow them to come in 
and sell a whole bunch of trucks, light trucks, SUVs, and minivans that 
are not energy efficient.

Meanwhile, companies such as DaimlerChrysler and GM and Ford, which 
are selling a lot of trucks, if we are not careful, will end up with a 
situation where other companies that are listed on this chart would be 
able to sell a whole lot of trucks, a whole lot of minivans, a whole 
lot of SUVs that are energy inefficient. Our automakers could not sell 
anymore. They would be constrained because of the requirements in 
legislation.

So here is what we have tried to come up with in response to the 
concerns by our automakers. We have come up with a plan that says to 
NHTSA: We do not care who is making real small cars, but we want you to 
set the same fuel efficiency standards for real small cars, regardless 
of who is making them. For midsized cars, we want you to set the same 
fuel efficiency standard targets for midsized cars, regardless of what 
companies make them. For larger cars, heavier cars, bigger cars, the 
same fuel efficiency standard would apply for that category of 
vehicles.

For pickup trucks, regardless of who is making them, light trucks, 
the same standard would have to apply, whether it is Nissan that is 
making them, Honda, or DaimlerChrysler. For a small truck, they all 
have to be producing vehicles that get the same fuel economy standards. 
For larger SUVs, the largest SUVs, whoever is making them--I don't care 
if it is Toyota, Nissan, Chrysler, GM--NHTSA would be promulgating a 
fuel efficiency standard that would be the same for all manufacturers.

Now, not everybody likes that. I suspect some of the folks who have 
been making energy-efficient cars for some time believe they are not 
getting the kind of credit they should get for their early work. But 
this is a proposal that is in the underlying bill, and it is in 
response to the domestic auto manufacturers who have said: Do not put 
us in a situation where the only folks who can sell light trucks and 
SUVs of any size are folks who happen to be building vehicles in other 
countries. So we tried to be responsive to their proposal.


Let's go back to this chart I have in the Chamber, if we could. I 
wish to return to the conversation I had with the CEO of one of the 
companies who came to see us. We will call it company X. Company X 
plans, in about 5 years, to be selling in this country a mix of 
products that would be 60 percent truck, that would be 40 percent cars. 
By trucks, I mean light trucks, SUVs, minivans. But that is their goal 
in 5 years: 40 percent cars, 60 percent trucks.

If we assume for a moment that the fuel average requirement, the 
minimum average requirement for light trucks and SUVs is going to be 30 
miles per gallon--that is probably pretty close to what it is going to 
be; it may be about what is doable--at the 60-percent market 
concentration for the trucks: 60 percent times 30 miles per gallon adds 
up to 18 miles per gallon.

If another 40 percent of what they build and sell is cars, the 
question is: What miles per gallon would they have to achieve for their 
car fleet, collectively--small, mid, large--what would they have to 
achieve to roughly get to 35 miles per gallon overall for their fleet 
average? The answer is: 42--not 52, not 62 miles per gallon. But this 
is what they would have to be able to deliver in mileage per gallon in 
2020 from their car fleet in order to come up with an overall fleet 
average for this company of about 35 miles per gallon.

Now the question is, is it realistic in 13 years for a company to be 
making cars that get 42 miles per gallon?

Well, I was at the Detroit Auto Show back in January. One of the 
coolest cars I saw was a Chevrolet. It was a Chevrolet Volt, a flex-
fuel, plug-in hybrid vehicle that, hopefully, Chevrolet is going to be 
making by the early part of the next decade. You plug it in, charge the 
battery, and you are off.

Let me say, the leader is on the floor. I say to the leader, I do not 
wish to get in your way, but if you want to jump in here, jump in.