# URGING A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL
## `7c07378f043bcf8c064d412a408bbbca`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Although we haven't worked together on any committees, I know you by 
reputation, and I know that your reputation is good and that you are 
known to be a fair Representative. So one of my concerns I just have to 
tell you, as somebody who has served in the minority and the majority 
and oftentimes in the majority felt that we ran roughshod over the 
minority and that it was the wrong thing to do, but I have also known 
that when you are in the minority and you don't get to offer, for 
example, a single amendment on the largest piece of legislation that 
we've faced maybe since the income tax debate, I would appeal to your 
sense of understanding why you and I have this discussion going on. 
Because I support this bill, and I certainly think a moment of silence 
is the fit and proper thing to do.

I look forward to traveling with the gentleman not just to Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but actually some of the places where we have World War II 
soldiers buried in foreign lands. I can tell you they absolutely love 
Americans as they look at the graves of Americans that are all over the 
world protecting not just our freedom but their freedom.


So I certainly understand why you are appalled that we are using this 
as a vehicle to discuss health care. I agree with you. There is a good 
sense of indignation. Yet I find myself in a few minutes one of these 
people who will be talking about health care because it is my only 
opportunity. Because as I understand it, we are going to have 1 hour of 
debate on two different pieces of legislation, 30 minutes per side. And 
if you are not directly on the health care committee, you won't have an 
opportunity to speak tomorrow. That is why, while I support this 
legislation----