---
---

# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT OF 2007
## `7c09ff964d0c467aa532c6af9dca5d29`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 5 March 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, I first wish to say that my 
colleague delivered a message that was clear and specific. It was a 
very valuable reminder of what we are discussing today, including his 
commentary about the fact that we are as a nation looking at the 
problem we see in front of us now.

On September 11, 2001, 700 of our fellow New Jerseyans never came 
home. One of my daughter's closest friends with whom she worked on Wall 
Street perished, and her husband searched for more than 2 weeks. After 
the obvious was apparent--that she was gone--refusing to believe it, he 
went from hospital to hospital, wherever one was within any reasonable 
distance, hoping against hope that maybe his wife would be alive and 
the mother of his three children would be there to encourage them on in 
their lives.

The stories about all kinds of friends and all kinds of neighbors are 
endless. In the area we are talking about in New Jersey that was 
directly hit, who didn't know someone or who didn't know someone who 
knew someone--even though we are a densely populated State, still, in 
all, the names touched so many lives and so many people. We saw the 
smoke rise and debris fall on that fateful day. It was just across the 
river from us and from where I live and I think close to where my 
colleague lives. When one looks at the skyline of New York now, there 
is an empty space where these proud buildings stood. I was a 
commissioner for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and 
thusly had offices in the Trade Center building. I remember seeing 
people come to work in the morning, over 50,000 people in just a few 
buildings--more than the population of many cities in our country. It 
was devastating.

We shouldn't forget that attack brought aviation to a standstill, 
that it had an effect felt way beyond New York and New Jersey and 
highlighted the fact that you can't just take areas, important areas 
around the country, and say: Well, that is kind of a local situation. 
It is not true. It is not true. As Senator Menendez pointed out, when 
it comes to other needs of other States, it has to be understood that 
when they are in peril, they are entitled to get as much help from the 
Federal Government as they can.

So why are we protesting at this time? This discussion has taken 
place over the last couple of years. Now we are seeing another attempt 
to reduce the maximum amount of funding available to those places which 
are most at risk.

I support most of the legislation before us now. I am concerned with 
the one part of this bill that does not follow the 9/11 Commission 
recommendations, the one that is being reviewed right now. 
Recommendation 25 of the 9/11 Commission Report said that homeland 
security grants should be distributed based solely on risk. This bill 
doesn't go sufficiently far enough to a full risk-based approach. 
Secretary Chertoff, whom we have seen here at many hearings, confirmed 
that. We looked at what he said. He said we should look not at the 
question of political jurisdiction but at where the consequences would 
be catastrophic, where the vulnerabilities would be, where the threats 
are. Clear statements. Despite that, this legislation directs the 
Department of Homeland Security to give a minimum amount of money to 
every State regardless of the risks or threats it faces.

When I served on the Homeland Security Committee--and I commend the 
former chairman and the current chairman for a lot of the work that was 
done there--we had a disagreement, and I tried in a committee hearing 
to move the committee at least to endorse the fact that these funds 
should be distributed solely on a risk basis. I was the only one who 
voted aye for it out of I think 16 people in attendance.

So at some point, I don't know why the call doesn't go out that says: 
Look, do this on a sensible basis. Do this on an as-needed basis. Give 
the opportunity to the places most at risk to protect themselves. It is 
more than good policy; it just makes common sense. Our military doesn't 
move troops evenly around the globe. You place your resources 
strategically. Why should homeland security be different? If you want 
to protect the most people in our country from risk, why not do that? 
We do that constantly in all kinds of projects, whether they be flood 
projects or otherwise in places that are prone to natural disasters. It 
makes sense that we spend more on homeland security in America's at-
risk areas.

Senator Feinstein and Senator Cornyn and I and others have an 
amendment to give at-risk States the money they need to protect their 
residents and their communities and sensitive places where an attack 
could severely damage the national viability.

We have seen something recently that highlights the situation in New 
Jersey where chlorine is manufactured and stored in large quantities, 
and we learned from the change in the tactics now in Iraq that chlorine 
is being used as a brandnew weapon there. The use of chlorine was 
devastating. It killed a few people but made many more deathly ill, 
requiring hospitalization and severe treatment to try to protect their 
lives.


We are talking about the most dangerous 2 miles in the country as 
certified by the FBI. Why not take advantage of the fact that we would 
be protecting not only the well-being of people in the surrounding 
area, but we would protect the functioning of our society. So we ought 
to move closer to the 9/11 Commission's recommendation that homeland 
security be distributed on risk and threat and cut the minimum amount 
of money that will be distributed to each State.

Secondly, it will result in more homeland security for 35 States that 
are more at risk. We are not just talking about New Jersey and New 
York; they are most prominent because we felt it and we have lost 
friends and neighbors as a result of that attack. But that was not the 
first time. It was the second time the World Trade Center was attacked. 
How many times must it happen before somebody who is leaning on one 
side or the other says: You know what, we don't want those people to be 
harmed further or that area to be damaged further. And the invitation 
is certainly there to do just that.

We must consider the large States such as Ohio. If something happens 
in some of the Western States, the way the winds blow in our country, 
they will deliver toxic emissions all the way across the country--
Georgia, for instance, and Nevada, Maryland, and Massachusetts. The 
array is impressive because it deals primarily with the largest 
population centers in the country and the money that could be brought 
to protect these centers should not just be dealt out on a traditional 
pork-like basis. We still haven't reached 100 percent risk-based 
funding. This amendment, however, is an improvement over current law, 
an improvement over the bill before us today.

I would like to be able to report to the 9/11 Commission that we as a 
Senate did more than simply debate the


Commission's findings. We ought to be able to tell them we voted to 
give more resources to the people, cities, and States that need more 
protection. They worked very hard to hammer out the Commission report, 
and I believe it is fair to say that the Feinstein-Cornyn-Lautenberg 
amendment will do just that. I encourage my colleagues to support it.

Madam President, I yield the floor.