---
---

# VOTING RIGHTS FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
## `7c1d04619c7c8eb6a4d38247024e2b7c`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I first of all want to thank the 
gentlewoman from the District of Columbia for not only organizing this 
special order, but for her tremendous devotion over the years.

Many of us, long before we came to Washington, DC, long before we 
became Members of the House of Representatives, knew of the work of 
Eleanor Holmes Norton. As a matter of fact, I was talking to a 
gentleman the other day, Eleanor, who suggested that he went to 
elementary school with you, and that you were the smartest person in 
the class, and that he was always intimidated when he came to class 
because he knew that you were there.



And I don't know whether you intended to intimidate him or not, but I 
do know that the passion, the intellect, the energy that you display is 
something for all of America to be proud of; and I know that the people 
in the District of Columbia are indeed proud of the representation that 
you have given them.

The issue that we deal with, I take the position, is one of the most 
fundamental of all rights, one of the most fundamental of all desires, 
and that is the desire that people have to be represented; the notion 
that their thoughts, ideas, hopes, and aspirations will get the same 
consideration as those of anybody else. So when we look at voting 
rights in this country historically, it has been a privilege that 
people have had to fight and struggle to get.

Initially, of course, the only people who could vote were landowners, 
who were white in America. Those were the only individuals who had the 
right to vote. Then we went through this long period of time, and 
ultimately a Civil War, where thousands of people actually lost their 
lives, and finally African Americans, who had been slaves, were granted 
at least the right, although in many instances denied the opportunity, 
to vote. Women, who had to wage their own war, their own struggles, 
ultimately won their right to vote.

Only after the Voting Rights Act of 1965 did hundreds of thousands of 
citizens all over the country, especially African Americans and 
Latinos, actually have the right to vote. Yet now we still have 
thousands of people who are denied the right to vote because they live 
in States where if you have a felony conviction you can never, ever 
vote, unless you can obtain a waiver. So, yes, one can imagine how 
people in the District of Columbia have felt as we talk about expanding 
democracy, as we talk about guaranteeing democracy for people in Iraq, 
guaranteeing democracy there; and yet the people who live in our own 
District of Columbia have not been able to have that experience.

So, Eleanor, I know that we are going to make sure this happens 
before this session of Congress ends as a tribute to you and a tribute 
to the long-standing work that you have done. One of my pleasures is to 
serve with you on the Committee on Government Reform and to listen and 
to learn and to be motivated, to be inspired, and to see the kind of 
wisdom that you express on a regular and ongoing basis.

So I thank you for the opportunity to join you, I thank you for 
organizing this Special Order, and we will be standing right here with 
you when enough ''yeas'' are said that the people in the District of 
Columbia will have their right to vote.

Mr. Speaker, I want to extend a thank you to Congresswoman Eleanor 
Holmes Norton for this special order and her hard work and dedication 
to get the District of Columbia the right to vote with full 
representation. It is strange to me where our government by money and 
blood sought to assist Iraq to become a democratic state where each 
person will have one vote under their newly formed constitution to 
determine their nation's destiny. However, the residents in the 
District of Columbia for over 200 years have been denied by the United 
States government the right to vote with full representation. Moreover, 
DC presidents also are denied the right to full self-government--a 
fundamental right that should be possessed by all Americans.

In 1950 with just under a million, the District of Columbia had more 
residents than New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, North Dakota, 
South Dakota, Delaware, Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, New Mexico, Arizona, 
Utah, Nevada, Alaska and Hawaii, respectively. All of these states from 
the beginning had U.S. Senators and U.S. Representatives representing 
their interests in Congress. Today, the District of Columbia has a duly 
elected Delegate that is not allowed to vote for legislative measures 
on the house floor. This is ''taxation without representation.''

The government has a history of denying its citizens the right to 
vote. We have seen it before the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Since its 
passage and signing into law by President Johnson it gave way to an 
enormous and positive impact to our Nation. The importance and 
necessity of the Voting Rights Act cannot be overemphasized. We have 
learned through experience what a difference the vote makes to us.

The right to vote is the most basic constitutive act of citizenship. 
The right to vote should not be abridged by the United States or any 
State on account of race, color, gender, or previous condition of 
servitude. Fundamental fairness requires that all members of society 
who have reached voting age, including rehabilitated ex-felons, be 
given a right to the ballot in State and Federal elections.

The lack of a nationwide uniform standard regarding ex-felons and 
eligibility to vote has led to a crazy quilt of laws, where in some 
States ex-felons are barred from voting for life. Currently, it is 
estimated that 3.9 million United States citizens are disenfranchised, 
including over one million who have completed their sentences. State 
disenfranchisement laws have had an adverse affect on African 
Americans. Thirteen percent of African American men, or 1.4 million, 
are currently disenfranchised because of such laws. We need to expand 
the right to vote to all citizens.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support the District of 
Columbia Fair and Equal Housing Voting Rights Act of 2007.