---
---

# RECOGNIZING AND COMMENDING ALL WHO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO FAMILIES AND  CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
## `7c291ea275875ab3dde70f9929a2f106`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, today we have the chance to thank the volunteers of 
nonprofit organizations who provide support for families and children 
of deployed members of the Armed Forces for their extraordinary 
contributions to those families.

I want to thank Congressman Tom Davis, Congressman Joe Wilson and 
others for their contributions and for helping us bring this resolution 
to the floor.

The families of United States troops serve this Nation by providing 
unconditional love and support for their deployed loved ones. While the 
government offers significant resources on military installations, when 
families live far away from a base, it is very hard to access those 
opportunities.

True patriots look at this kind of situation and ask, what can I do 
for my military families? That's what the patriots did who founded Our 
Military Kids, Kids Serve 2, and several other organizations that 
recognize and support military families.

These organizations' founders recognized the families' contributions 
and identified the need to provide opportunities and resources for 
their families, especially for the families and children of deployed 
Guard and Reserve troops.

The organizations' contributions are so significant that in May, 
General David Petraeus, the United States Army Commanding General of 
the Multinational Force-Iraq, personally thanked Our Military Kids for 
their great work and support for Guard and Reserve troops' families.

Our Military Kids is a nonprofit organization which is wholly devoted 
to offering financial resources and grants for children K-12 of 
deployed and severely injured Reserve and National Guard personnel. Our 
Military Kids helps families participate in sports, arts and tutoring 
programs that are so important to children during those stressful 
times.

Today my resolution puts the House of Representatives on record as 
supporting the excellent work these nonprofit groups do to support the 
children and families of deployed troops. I ask the House to support 
this resolution and thank the founders and volunteers at Our Military 
Kids and at the other nongovernmental groups that support military 
families.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that the May 8 letter from General Petraeus be 
included for the Record.



























May 8, 2007.


 Linda Davidson,


 Executive Director, Our Military Kids,


 McLean, Virginia.



 Dear Ms. Davidson: On behalf of the Soldiers, Sailors, 


 Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen serving in Iraq, 


 especially our Reserve and National Guard component forces, I 


 want to thank you for the support of your wonderful 


 organization, Our Military Kids.



 We ask a lot of today's military families. And I know that 


 families of National Guard and Reserve forces, in particular, 


 often feel a strain when their loved ones are called to 


 active duty. These troopers not only leave their families at 


 home, but they also leave their civilian jobs, adding 


 financial stress to the other stresses associated with 


 deployment. The support your organization provides through 


 generous financial grants helps to mitigate that financial 


 stress. In doing so, you are making tough deployments that 


 much easier on the forces deployed and their families at 


 home. I applaud the efforts of your organization.



 Thanks again for the important assistance you provide to 


 our servicemembers and their families.





 Sincerely,
























David H. Petraeus,

















 General, U.S. Army, Commanding.


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.