# None
## `7c2bbdece3ccd10aadc6df0fb9ddc6cc`
`Mrs. CLINTON â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Madam President, the description of the problems that 
are currently existing in Iraq and in the region by my friend and 
colleague is not only accurate but, unfortunately, an indictment of the 
policies of this administration. What has been described in terms of 
the instability in Iraq and the consequences for further conflict are 
ones I take very seriously.

The issue before us now is what is the best approach we as a nation 
can take which will fulfill our obligations to our men and women in 
uniform, which will make clear to the Iraqi Government and people that 
their lives and futures are at stake, and which will strengthen the 
hand of the United States diplomatically to deal with the consequences 
of the misguided policies that have brought us to this point.

There are no good answers. Anyone who stands here and believes that 
he or she has the truth, the facts, understands both what is going on 
and what is likely to flow from whatever decision we take, is most 
probably to be proven wrong by reality as it unfolds. Many of us have 
been searching for the best approach to take with respect to our 
involvement in Iraq for a number of years, but we don't do it with any 
sense that we know everything that will happen, no matter what 
decisions are taken. But what we do have is a history of miscalculation 
and mistakes we are now attempting to deal with.

The Levin-Reed amendment attempts to put into law a new direction for 
Iraq, one that I and others believe is long overdue. The reason I have 
come to support this amendment is because if one looks at the actions 
of our military in Iraq, based on the authority under which they are 
operating, they have achieved the missions they were given. They were 
asked to remove Saddam Hussein from power and bring him to justice, and 
they did so. They were asked to provide the Iraqi people with the 
opportunity for free and fair elections, and they did that as well. 
They were asked to give the Iraqi Government the space and time to make 
the difficult political decisions that are required in order to have 
any hope of stabilizing Iraq over the longer term, and they did that as 
well. Our military has performed not only heroically but successfully, 
with courage and determination, against odds and enemies from all 
sides.

What we know is that when the people of Iraq turn against violence, 
there is a chance for success. That is the basis of the 
counterinsurgency strategy. It cannot succeed unless the people on the 
ground are part of the winning strategy. What has happened in Al Anbar 
Province is an example of that. The tribal sheiks and the people turned 
against the violence and extremism of the al-Qaida factions, many of 
whom were led by foreign fighters who violated not just the human 
rights but the cultural norms that existed in the area. So there became 
the opportunity for an alliance--an alliance between our military and 
local people against al-Qaida. That is why the Levin-Reed amendment 
includes the continuing efforts against al-Qaida as a remaining mission 
and a vital national security interest of the United States.

If one looks, though, at the map that was just on the easel, that 
does not describe the situation in the rest of Iraq. In the south, I 
think it is clear that Iran is the political occupier, that Iranian 
agents are largely calling the shots, and that there is an internecine 
struggle for power among a variety of Shiite militias.

The lawlessness inside Basra and in the surrounding region cannot be 
quelled by any external force. The British have not only drawn down 
their troops, but they have withdrawn to their bases. They know they 
can't go out and calm the waters because the various factions are vying 
for power. They are going to continue to do so until someone emerges, 
and Iran is largely influential in determining who that might be.

In Baghdad, we have gone from neighborhood to neighborhood, and yes, 
where we are, we secure the area, the violence recedes, only to pop up 
somewhere else, either in Baghdad or maybe in Diyala or Bakuba or 
somewhere else.

Madam President, the problem is that Iraq is not al-Anbar Province. 
Al-Qaida is not the major source of the instability in Iraq. It 
conducts the most violent and spectacular mission. It provides the 
suicidal killers, who blow themselves up and blow up the cars and 
trucks in which they live at the moment. But they are not the primary 
cause of the violence and instability in Iraq. Therefore, the 
counterinsurgency cannot succeed unless there is a dramatic change in 
the attitude of both the Government and the people of Iraq. I do not 
see that happening.

The Iraqi Government has not been willing to make the hard decisions. 
The debate as to whether they are incapable or unwilling is beside the 
point. They have not done it. We keep hearing every year, every month, 
every week that things will be different. How many times have we heard 
that as the Iraqis stand up, our troops will stand down? How many times 
have we heard that in 6 months, 8 months, or 12 months our troops may 
start coming home? Meanwhile, there are more American troops in Iraq 
today than ever before. The Iraqi Government is more fractured and less 
effective. The right strategy before the surge and the right strategy


now, postescalation, is the same: Start bringing our troops out of this 
multisided sectarian civil war.

I believe since our troops have accomplished the mission that was 
originally set forth, withdrawing them from urban combat, from patrol 
duty, from the kind of hand-to-hand engagement they are currently 
confronted with, is the right military and political strategy. It is 
clear that as we look at where we are today in Iraq, we are asking our 
young men and women to police a civil war. There is no argument about 
the very basic premise that there is no military solution. Yet the 
political front has been neglected.

If there had been a political surge and a diplomatic surge, we might 
be looking at a different situation. We also know that the training and 
performance of the Iraqi Army and police forces has not been sufficient 
to relieve our troops of the primary responsibility for the fight. In 
fact, because of setbacks and other problems, the numbers of Iraqi 
troops that are actually available to fight alongside or to take 
responsibility for the fight has diminished. As our troops serve 
alongside Iraqi Army officers and soldiers, they find that, yes, some 
do have loyalty to Iraq. Others, however, are loyal to sectarian 
militias. Others have looked the other way when the insurgents have 
planted bombs. Some have even taken up arms against Americans while 
wearing the uniforms that we help provide.

The catalog of miscalculations, misjudgments, and mistakes in Iraq 
shocks the conscience, from the unilateral decision to rush to a 
preemptive war without allowing the inspectors to finish their work, or 
waiting for diplomacy to run its course, to the failure to send enough 
troops or provide proper equipment for them, to the denial of a rising 
insurgency, and the failure to adjust the military strategy, to 
continue support for a government unwilling to make the necessary 
political compromises, to the adherence to a broken policy more than 4 
years after the invasion began.

Many of us believe it is time for us to move our troops out of harm's 
way in the middle of the Iraqi civil war. We believe that is an 
appropriate military decision that will be made sooner or later. The 
recent report, which was an interim report, did not have very much good 
news in it. In September, we will get another report, which I predict 
will be also mixed, which will put the best face on whatever the facts 
are. But the bottom line will remain the same: Our troops and their 
families are paying the price for this administration's policies.

Since the Bush administration announced this escalation, 14 brave New 
Yorkers have been killed in Iraq, and hundreds more wounded. Two 
soldiers from the 10th Mountain Division, based in Fort Drum, are 
listed as captured or missing. Since the war began, 3,619 young 
Americans have been killed, 26,000 have been wounded, many with very 
visible wounds, such as loss of limbs and loss of eyes, others with 
those wounds that are invisible but no less injurious, such as 
depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and traumatic 
brain injury.

We have spent more than $450 billion so far, $10 billion each month. 
We are straining our budget. The President's two major initiatives 
since he was sworn into office in January 2001 have been tax cuts for 
the rich and the war in Iraq, neither of which is paid for. They have 
been put on the American credit card. They have been funded by 
borrowing money from foreign countries, further undermining our 
standing and our leverage in the world. Our involvement in Iraq 
continues to erode our position. It has damaged our alliances and it 
has limited our ability to respond to real threats. The unclassified 
key judgments of the recent National Intelligence Estimate, called 
''The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Homeland,'' says the threat of al-
Qaida is persistent and evolving. The report states that al-Qaida will 
probably seek to leverage the contacts and capabilities of al-Qaida in 
Iraq, its most visible and capable affiliate, and the only one known to 
have expressed a desire to attack the homeland.

This reality is a sobering one and I believe one that demands a new 
direction. I continue to press for a basic three-step approach. First, 
start bringing our troops out of harm's way now.

Second, demand--and back up those demands--that the Iraqis take 
responsibility for their country or lose the aid we are providing them. 
Everyone knows the Iraqi Government is as much a client of Iran as it 
is an ally of the United States. Our presence in this multisided 
sectarian civil war, without a diplomatic or political strategy, makes 
it unlikely that the Iraqi Government will seek the resolution of the 
disputes that lie at the heart of this ongoing civil war.

Thirdly, we should begin long overdue intensive regional and 
international diplomacy on a sustained basis. Diplomacy in and of 
itself does not promise any great solution, but we have neglected it at 
our peril. Others have rushed to fill the vacuum. In fact, the problems 
that were pointed out on the map of the region have also been impacted 
by the administration's failure to pursue smart diplomacy. As we look 
at the deteriorating situation in the Middle East, the pressures on the 
Israeli Government because of the rise of Hamas and the strength of 
Hezbollah, we can see the consequences of both our failed diplomatic 
strategy and our problems in Iraq today.

I have called for the strategic redeployment of U.S. forces out of 
Iraq for several years. I have introduced legislation to end the war 
but to remain committed to vital national security interests that can 
be enumerated and more carefully defined. I voted against funding the 
war without any plan for ending it, or without any companion effort to 
engage in realistic political and diplomatic initiatives. That is why I 
have joined a bipartisan majority in supporting the Levin-Reed 
amendment.


It has been very difficult to get the President's attention. I hear 
that from both sides of the aisle. The Congress has both a duty and an 
opportunity to try to do that. We have one Commander in Chief at a time 
and we have seen repeatedly this administration's failure to deal with 
the realities we confront in Iraq and elsewhere around the world. When 
they do change course, as long as it takes them to make that decision, 
as we have seen in North Korea, the results can be very positive. I can 
only hope that in the remaining 18 months of this administration, 
similar actions are undertaken to deal with the problems we confront in 
the larger region, including Iraq and the Middle East.

I believe, too, it is imperative that the Secretary of Defense and 
the Joint Chiefs inform the Congress of the plans they have for 
redeployment and withdrawal. Withdrawing troops is dangerous and 
difficult. We must not redeploy out of Iraq with the same failure of 
planning with which our troops were deployed into Iraq. Yet I wrote 
several weeks ago to Secretary Gates and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs, General Pace, asking whether there is planning--very specific 
planning, not the usual response that, yes, we plan for everything, for 
every contingency--and what is the planning that will protect our 
troops when they do withdraw, which will happen, whether it happens in 
120 days, or next year, or whether it happens the year after; what have 
we done to make sure that we do it in as careful and orderly a way as 
possible.

I believe our troops, as well as the American people, deserve a vote, 
yes or no, on this bill. If you believe in giving the President the 
continued power to pursue a failed strategy, without checks or balances 
by this Congress, make your case and cast your vote. If not, then put 
partisanship aside and stand with the bipartisan majority working to 
end this war.

Our message to the President is clear: It is time to start thinking 
of our troops and our broader position in Iraq and beyond--not next 
year, not next month, but today. I hope we will be able to vote on the 
Levin-Reed amendment. I fear we will not, in the face of concerns and 
objections on the other side. But we are postponing the inevitable. 
Come September, we will have another inconclusive report. We will have 
more casualties. We will have more who are injured. We will still have 
the same Iraqi Government waiting us out. We will continue to empower 
Iran and to destabilize Jordan and to give a free hand to Syria and 
Hezbollah. We will face an even more dangerous set of choices then. 
There is no reason to wait.

Madam President, on behalf of the leader, I ask unanimous consent 
that Senator Coleman now be recognized for


up to 15 minutes, to be followed by Senator Casey for 15 minutes, 
Senator Barrasso for 5 minutes, and following the remarks of Senator 
Barrasso, Senator Reid be recognized.