---
---

# None
## `7c2d141b9726d03816a95ea7c560e84e`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I hope the Senate will complete action on 
this bill today. The Senators from Hawaii and Alaska have worked in a 
bipartisan manner to determine how to provide the resources necessary 
to sustain the operations of the Department of Defense while providing 
the capability to meet future threats. It is worth noting that this 
bill was reported by the Appropriations Committee by a unanimous vote. 
The bill does not attempt to force controversial policy changes that 
would trigger a veto by the President. The bill fully supports our 
military by providing increases in end strength for the Army and Marine 
Corps. It supports military health care reforms, and it provides needed 
funds to replace or repair and maintain aging and heavily used 
equipment.

Our military is providing trained and equipped forces to sustain 
multiple fronts on the global war on terrorism, while at the same time 
transitioning the force to meet future threats. Our military leaders 
need these resources in a timely manner if they are to succeed.

It is particularly critical that we complete action on the Defense 
appropriations bill as soon as possible to support our men and women in 
uniform and the civil servants who work with them. We need to complete 
action on this Defense appropriations bill so we can go to conference 
with the House and deliver a bill as soon as possible to the President.

While the continuing resolution we passed last week contains some 
bridge funding to support the troops through November 16, it is not 
adequate for the longer term.

The President submitted a fiscal year 2008 war supplemental request 
in February. Last week, in our Appropriations Committee hearing, 
Secretary of Defense Gates made clear the need for this additional 
funding. We should not delay action on providing supplemental funding 
until next year. It is simply unacceptable.

The fact is, we have tens of thousands of American men and women in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world performing the mission that our 
Government has assigned to them. The new fiscal year has already begun. 
We should not cause uncertainty or hardship for our Armed Forces or try 
to change American policy in Iraq by starving our troops of needed 
resources. Let's get on with it and provide our men and women in 
uniform the resources they need to perform that mission successfully.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. I withhold that 
request.