---
---

# TAXPAYER ASSISTANCE AND SIMPLIFICATION ACT OF 2008
## `7c3719084a181b7336ef0673cd9149dc`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 15 April 2008`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this very 
timely and important measure. Its enactment will make a number of 
worthwhile changes in the current tax laws and the policies of the 
Internal Revenue Service, IRS.

To protect people against identity theft, it will require the IRS to 
notify a taxpayer if IRS finds that someone else may have made 
unauthorized use of the taxpayer's identity.

It will increase both the civil and criminal penalties that can be 
imposed on those who use misleading websites that imitate to seek to 
get personal information. This is important because people are losing 
thousands of dollars in tax refunds to such frauds.

It will strengthen IRS outreach to make sure that people know that 
they are entitled to tax refunds or to payments under the Earned Income 
Tax Credit, EITC. It would also permit the IRS to refer these taxpayers 
to low income tax clinics and increase funding for those clinics, and 
strengthen taxpayer protections from ''predatory'' providers of refund 
anticipation loans. And it clarifies that the IRS can use its website 
to publicize unclaimed taxpayer refunds.

To help small businesses, the bill will eliminate the outdated 
requirement to maintain and submit detailed call records to 
substantiate business use of employer-provided cell phones.

Of great importance to State and local governments--including every 
county in Colorado--it will delay for one year the imposition of a 3 
percent withholding requirement on government payments for goods and 
services made after December 31, 2010.

Further, to protect all of us, the bill includes the ''Fair Share 
Act,'' which closes a loophole that now allows government contractors 
to avoid paying Social Security and Medicare taxes.

An example of how the current law could permit this was recently 
reported in the press account of how a company operating under Federal 
contracts for reconstruction work in Iraq has listed the people doing 
that work as being employees of a subsidiary company based in the 
Cayman Islands. As a result, while people formally employed by the 
company with the Federal contract would be subject to the 15.3 percent 
payroll tax for Social Security and Medicare (half technically paid by 
the employer, the other half technically paid by employees), that is 
not the case with people who are counted as working for a foreign 
company. This is not fair or just. It should not be permissible, and 
this bill would stop it by closing the loophole.

In addition, the bill would strengthen accountability and protect 
taxpayers by repealing the authorization for the Internal Revenue 
Service to use private contractors to collect Federal income taxes.

Just today, the press is reporting that this program, while perhaps 
well-intentioned, has cost the government--that is, the taxpayers--some 
$37 million more than the total amount of taxes it has collected, while 
the contractors have collected commissions of up to 24 percent for 
their efforts. The program has been marked by harassment, abusive 
calling, and violations of taxpayer rights and disclosure protections. 
The Government Accountability Office has reported that debt collectors 
placed over one million calls, many to innocent people, trying to reach 
35,000 taxpayers and the Federal Trade Commission reports that as of 
last year it had received 130 complaints and the National Taxpayer 
Advocate has counted many more. The House has already twice voted to 
end this private collection program, and we should do so again today.


Madam Speaker, some have criticized this bill because it includes 
measures to implement the requirement that taxes be paid on funds 
withdrawn from a Health Savings account for purposes other than those 
related to health care. I think the purpose of these provisions is 
appropriate, but it may be that they could be more finely-tuned in 
order to achieve that purpose in a better way--something that may occur 
as the legislative process proceeds. In any event, I am not convinced 
that whatever shortcomings there may be in that or other parts of the 
bill are sufficient to outweigh the benefits of the rest of the 
legislation.

Overall, this is a good bill that will help the taxpayers and our 
country, and I urge its passage.