---
---

# SERGEANT HENRY YBARRA III POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `7c38029e515b4eaa29ff486072bd614a`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. I thank my colleagues for bringing this bill to the 
floor.

Mr. Speaker, today we honor a son of Texas, Sergeant Henry Ybarra 
III, born and raised in south Austin, and a member of the parish at San 
Jose Catholic Church. On September 11, 2003, he was killed in Iraq, the 
first of a number from our State capital in Texas to lose their life 
there.

I attended his rosary personally, joined by Marine Thomas Cruz, a 
member of my Congressional staff at that time. Today we honor Henry's 
sacrifice to our Nation by officially affixing his name to the post 
office on South Congress in Austin, the road that leads up to our State 
Capitol.

Henry long knew that he wanted to devote his life to service. His 
mother, Mary Jane, remembers it as early as age five. His father, a 
veteran of Vietnam, would find young Henry marching around in his dad's 
boots and cap. Henry wasted no time making that dream a reality, 
enlisting in the Army only months after graduating from Johnston High 
School. That father, Hank, is at this very moment still convalescing 
from both his own service in Vietnam and the impact of the loss of his 
son. We wish him continued progress in his recovery, and express our 
deep gratitude for what he has given personally to our country.

Henry's military career spanned a dozen years, earning numerous 
honors and awards. He met his wife, Lilian, while stationed at Fort 
Hood in Killeen, and his career took his family with daughters, Alyssa 
and Gabrielle, and his son, Henry IV, as far away as Germany. His 
commanding officer described Henry's easy manner and said, I wish I had 
a troop full of soldiers with his attitude and outlook on life.

As Pericles once spoke of ancient Athens, so it is with our democracy 
today: ''If it should appear great to you, consider then that her 
glories were purchased by valiant men, and by men who learned their 
duty.''

With this bill, our Nation pays tribute to a valiant man, Staff 
Sergeant Henry Ybarra, and to all those valiant men and women who serve 
and have served under our flag. The veterans groups Tejanos in Action, 
the Catholic War Veterans Post 1805, the Knights of Columbus Council 
10148, the American GI Forum, along with LULAC and other community 
organizations, have been strong supporters of the effort to memorialize 
Sergeant Ybarra by naming the South Congress station in his honor.

Tejanos in Action is a unique organization that addresses the needs 
of our Hispanic veterans, and by providing its services to our 
community, provides a meaningful tribute to Henry and others who have 
served our country. I salute Dan Arellano, the Commander of Tejanos in 
Action; Moses Saldana, who works closely with the Knights of Columbus 
at San Jose Church, and the Catholic War Veterans and all those who 
continue to serve and inspire our youth with their service.

Last year, I participated in the dedication of the Nicholas Perez 
Elementary School, as the Austin Independent School District recognized 
another brave son of south Austin lost in Iraq. Such memorials rightly 
honor men and women who have given their lives in service. They are 
daily reminders of both the valor of these young people and of our need 
to prevent war or its unnecessary escalation. With the death toll now 
rising towards 4,000 unique human beings tragically lost in Iraq, there 
may not be enough physical memorials to honor individually the 
sacrifice of all those who continue to fall.

For Sergeant Henry Ybarra and his friends and family, he will always 
be in their hearts. With this memorial naming, new generations will 
learn of Sergeant Ybarra's selfless sacrifice and be inspired by that 
service.