---
---

# OUR SYMPATHIES TO THE PEOPLE OF PAKISTAN
## `7c39e503629ee8f2da2231a31bb9091a`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 29 October 2009`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, on October 28, 2009, 
terrorists killed nearly 100 people--including dozens of women and 
children--when they attacked a women's market in Peshawar, Pakistan, 
with a car bomb. These type of heinous acts are a sad reminder of the 
gruesome tactics used by those who want to undermine stability in 
Pakistan and the region as well as threaten American families and our 
allies. I wish to express my deepest sympathies to the people of 
Pakistan--an ally of the United States in the global war on terrorism.

In the wake of these most recent attacks, Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton--who was on the ground in Pakistan at the time--correctly 
stated that those terrorists who perpetrate these types of murderous 
acts are ''on the losing side of history.'' This is why we must 
continue to fight to defeat the terrorists overseas to protect American 
families here at home. We must stand with the people of Pakistan and 
the people of Afghanistan to protect and defend democracy and freedom.

I know firsthand of the sacrifices of the Pakistani people. I was 
honored to have breakfast with former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto at 
her home in Islamabad four weeks and a day before she was murdered. The 
brave people of Pakistan responded to this brutal attack with resolve 
to continue building a civil society.
