---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `7c3a501f8bbaa049612c113e949f6b03`
`Mr. OBAMA — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. OBAMA. Mr. President, toward the end of World War II, Norman 
Rockwell created a cover for the Saturday Evening Post titled 
''Homecoming GI.'' It is a picture of a soldier returning from war. He 
has a duffle bag clutched in his left hand. He is looking up at the 
back of a brick building with laundry hanging from the back porch. A 
woman in an apron sees him with outstretched arms, and a young child 
races down the stairs. Everyone sees that soldier--the neighbors' kids, 
the man fixing the roof, faces from another window--and everyone 
welcomes that soldier who has come home from war.

That is what our Nation did for the millions of servicemembers who 
returned from the Atlantic and the Pacific. We watched them come home 
in waves. Some were just as strong as their first day in battle; others 
limped. We saw them crowd Times Square. We saw them walk down Main 
Street and sit on stoops. My grandfather, who fought in Patton's army, 
would often speak about this time as America at its finest. That 
homecoming didn't just happen; we were ready for it.

Long before the beaches of Normandy were stormed and the last battle 
was fought, in 1943 President Roosevelt said:




 Among many other things, we are, today, laying plans for 


 the return to civilian life of our gallant men and women in 


 the armed services. They must not be demobilized into an 


 environment of inflation and unemployment, to a place on a 


 bread line, or on a corner selling apples. We must, this 


 time, have plans ready instead of waiting to do a hasty, 


 inefficient, and ill-considered job at the last moment.


These are the words of wisdom that we ignore at our peril.

Today we have more than 631,000 veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan 
and other parts of the global war on terror. According to a recent VA 
health care report, one-third--more than 205,000--have sought treatment 
at VA health facilities.

Even if the war in Iraq comes to an end soon--and I hope the Senate 
takes action this week to accomplish that goal--the war will live on 
with our servicemembers and their families for the rest of our lives.

Unfortunately, over the past month, we have all seen the disturbing 
pictures of neglect at Walter Reed. We have read about bats and 
bureaucratic redtape at the VA. We have seen too many stories about our 
veterans who have been forgotten--not greeted by the Nation that asked 
them to serve. The time has come for us to see this generation of 
veterans in all their valor and pain. We should provide them with a 
plan that is worthy of their courage and will help build back the 
military they love.

That is what Senator McCaskill and I are trying to do with the 
amendment we offer today.

First, we provide an additional $41 million to hire more caseworkers 
to assist servicemembers navigating the military's bureaucracy. The 
last thing a wounded servicemember should have to face when they return 
home is a front line of paperwork and delay. Right now, the caseworker-
to-service-member ratio at Walter Reed is 1 to 50. Caseworkers help 
recovering soldiers schedule appointments, take care of their everyday 
needs, and fill out paperwork. Military caseworkers are overwhelmed. I 
understand the Army is reducing the caseworker-to-service-member ratio 
to 1 to 17, and I applaud this move. Our amendment would help the 
military achieve this goal at all military hospitals.

Our amendment also provides $30 million for the Armed Forces to 
create an Internet-based system for servicemembers to submit their 
paperwork electronically. No longer will amputees and servicemembers in 
wheelchairs have to go to countless offices to fill out duplicative 
forms only to learn that the forms have been lost in Government 
bureaucracy.

We also need to do more to increase the number of mental health 
crisis counselors available to assist recovering servicemembers and 
their families. Too many servicemembers are returning home with unmet 
mental health needs--stresses that are often experienced by their 
family members.


That is why our amendment provides $17 million for more mental health 
crisis counselors.

While we all praise how our country treated the servicemembers 
returning from World War II, we must remember the lessons after 
Vietnam. The landmark National Vietnam Veterans Readjustment Study was 
congressionally mandated in 1983, 15 years after the height of that 
war. The completed report showed the vast majority of Vietnam veterans 
had successfully acclimated to postwar life.

We can't wait 15 years to plan and prepare for the readjustment needs 
of the servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The average 
age of a servicemember deployed since September 11 is 27. The average 
age of our Guard and Reserves is 33. Sixty percent of those deployed 
have family responsibilities, and 47 percent of those who have died 
have left families. Mr. President, 160,000 women have been deployed, 
and 10 percent of those women are single mothers. These men and women 
are going to face real challenges in readjusting to normal life.


Our amendment would provide for a study by the National Academy of 
Sciences of the mental health and readjustment needs of returning 
servicemembers. This study will assist the Department of Defense, the 
Veterans' Administration, and Congress in planning for the long-term 
needs of our veterans.

Last week I met a woman at Walter Reed. She is one of the 160,000 
women who have been deployed, and she suffers from post-traumatic 
stress disorder. Most of us associate PTSD with men in combat, but many 
of the women in theater face firsthand dangers in their combat support 
roles. Driving a truck in Baghdad is one of the most dangerous missions 
around, and it is considered a support role. Women are witnessing the 
horrors of improvised explosive devices and the horrors of losing 
fellow servicemembers, and too many are experiencing the trauma of 
sexual harassment or abuse.

This young woman was very scared, and she trembled as we spoke. I 
asked her what we could do to help. She said that she could not handle 
group therapy sessions; she could only tolerate one-on-one sessions 
with counselors. Her experience is shared by many women. Treatment for 
women with PTSD, especially sexual abuse victims, is very different 
from treatment for men.

That is why as part of our amendment we want to provide $15 million 
to address the unique mental health needs of women. This funding will 
ensure the development and implementation of a women's treatment 
program for mental health conditions, including PTSD. It will also 
include the hiring and training of sexual abuse counselors so that the 
servicemembers who suffer from this trauma do not have to suffer in 
silence. We can do this for the woman I met at Walter Reed and the 
thousands who suffer like her.

The total cost of our amendment is $103 million--less than one-tenth 
of 1 percent of the total cost of this bill. This is the least we can 
do for our servicemembers recovering at Walter Reed and other military 
hospitals.

I am proud that Veterans For America has endorsed our amendment, and 
I ask unanimous consent that their letter of endorsement be printed in 
the Record.