# MANUFACTURERS KNOW ALL ABOUT ECONOMIC COLLAPSE
## `7c3e18a5543b72cda598a63d6d3ca1cc`
`Mr. WOLF — 3 October 2008`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, I want to share with our colleagues a 
commentary from the recent edition of Manufacturing & Technology News 
by its editor Richard McCormack. He writes that manufacturers in this 
country know about economic collapse because that sector of our economy 
has been on the downward slide for years and that their experience 
should be a lesson for this Nation's leaders who are trying to find a 
way to turn around the economy. His article follows:




 [From the Manufacturing & Technology News, Sept. 30, 2008]




Commentary: Manufacturers Know All About Economic Collapse 













 (By Richard McCormack)




 It is sad what has happened to the United States.



 For years, as editor of Manufacturing & Technology News, I 


 have heard dozens of domestic manufacturing company CEOs talk 


 about an impending ''collapse'' of the U.S. economy. These 


 were the men who were in the unenviable position of having to 


 close their companies or shut down factories and watch as 


 most all of their competitors did the same thing.



 These were the men who implemented Six Sigma, lean, ISO 


 9000, and the Baldrige National Quality and Shingo Prize 


 criteria. They were leaders who agonized over having to move 


 the world's most efficient production capacity from the 


 United States to Mexico and China in order to stay in 


 business, because no matter how good they were, it wasn't 


 good enough to survive. They could compete with other 


 companies, but they could not compete against other 


 COUNTRIES--countries that cheated in every way imaginable.



 These manufacturing company CEOs were men who loved their 


 employees. Who grew up with their employees. Who knew their 


 families. Who knew in their hearts the economic, cultural, 


 moral and physical destruction that was being wrought upon 


 their communities.



 U.S. manufacturing company CEOs died many deaths, watching 


 as Wall Street mavericks and their economic ideological 


 apologists in the U.S. federal government, in Congress and 


 their high-paid agents in Washington, D.C., forced 


 hundreds of thousands of dedicated, hard-working Americans 


 into the street, to fend for themselves in a game that was 


 rigged against them.



 Has the financial class driven through the heartland of 


 America lately? Have they not taken AMTRAK between New York 


 City and Washington, D.C., passing through the industrial 


 back lots of Baltimore, Wilmington, Philadelphia, Trenton and 


 Newark? Have they not seen an American landscape stretching 


 for thousands of square miles that looks like it has been 


 bombed out?



 There are places in America that are ''healthy,'' but these 


 places are even worse: shopping and strip malls located on 


 the edges of America's deteriorating towns and cities, lined 


 with vast parking lots and national chain stores: Applebees, 


 Home Depot, Wal-Mart, Wendy's, Days Inn, Outback Steak House. 


 They are soul-less places--''Anywhere USA''--as depressing as 


 the crumbling inner city cores of hundreds of American cities 


 and towns. This is what has become of America. Wall Street 


 had a lot to do with this. As part of the financial bailout 


 bill, they needed to include a provision on teaching ethics 


 and civics.



 The heroic men running companies that made durable goods 


 wept on the phone when I called to ask about why they closed 


 their factory after it had been in operation for 80 years or 


 more.



 These people were not selling financial paper or making 


 products that were obsolete and no longer in demand, like 


 buggy whips. And yet when I speak with economists about 


 manufacturing, they invariably rationalize the loss of 


 America's wealth-generating sector by claiming the companies 


 that are dying are making ''buggy whips.'' It is wrong and it 


 is infuriating. We're talking about the United States 


 economy, which has just suffered a massive financial heart 


 attack.



 I remember writing about the manufacturing job situation in 


 early 2004. It was the 35th consecutive month of 


 manufacturing employment layoffs, with the latest BLS figure 


 coming in at 135,000 production workers being told to go home 


 and not ever come back. This was a crisis. I wondered why in 


 the hell not a single person in the Bush administration and 


 only a handful of people in Congress cared about the collapse 


 of the wealth-generating sector of the American economy. As 


 is happening with the financial sector today, manufacturing 


 five years ago was being disassembled in front of their eyes. 


 There were no bailouts--manufacturers weren't looking for 


 them--there weren't even bromides.



 I remember thinking as Bush invaded Iraq that it was 


 America's last great hurrah. As America's military hardware 


 was being shipped to the Middle East, America's industrial 


 base was being shipped in the opposite direction to China. 


 The war was happening at the same time that ''outsourcing'' 


 became a big story in the media. But the business press got 


 bored and started covering the incredible run-up of housing 


 prices. ''Whoopee,'' said all the journalists and economists. 


 ''Who needs industry when we've got finance and housing!''



 But the manufacturing industry's plight continued. I wanted 


 to rename my publication ''One Outrage After Another.'' I was 


 constantly questioning whether I should continue writing all 


 the stories of companies dying, of industries leaving, of 


 workers being laid off, of trade deficits skyrocketing, of 


 China cheating, of the perverse reaction among Washington 


 elites to rationalize the destruction. I wondered if I was 


 the problem. If being Irish meant fixating on the negative. 


 But I had covered manufacturing through the 1990s, and the 


 story wasn't depressing. I even wrote a book about U.S. 


 companies' adoption of the Toyota Production System and lean 


 manufacturing and the good it was doing. It was not me. It 


 was the story that could not be ignored.



 I got to know other people who couldn't sleep at night 


 fretting over what was happening to the United States 


 industrial base. These were patriotic people who started to 


 coalesce around these issues, who were utterly perplexed by 


 the federal government's total unwillingness to act on behalf 


 of American producers and their workers.



 The government knew what was going on. But its political 


 appointees made nonsensical ideological arguments concerning 


 ''free trade'' and ''free markets.'' ''We've got a war going 


 on, we can't support U.S. manufacturing'' was a refrain I 


 heard over and again by political appointees at the 


 ''Commerce'' Department and White House.



 Manufacturers weren't looking for a hand out or a bailout. 


 They only wanted one thing: for the United States government 


 to put the interests of American producers




 above the interests of foreign countries, foreign producers, 


 importers and the multinational companies that were taking 


 advantage of mercantilist practices in China. American 


 manufacturers wanted the U.S. government to put the interests 


 of American producers ahead of the law firms representing 


 foreign shipping companies, the lobbyists representing Wall 


 Street and, again, the multinational companies that were 


 swimming in record profits by sending their production 


 offshore; all while the critical manufacturing sector was 


 left for dead. ''Good riddance,'' said the financial elite 


 and its power structure: ''those jobs sucked anyway.''



 Those same free-market, capitalist, anti-government, anti-


 regulation ideological zealots are now begging--demanding--


 that taxpayers give them a trillion dollars for destroying 


 the American economy.



 I never once reported about the dire warnings of an 


 economic meltdown--about the inevitable financial catastrophe 


 being caused by the asymmetrical global trade imbalances that 


 were mounting by the day. I had my own 401k to worry about 


 along with three older children, and I was not going to be a 


 reporter who stoked the possibility of economic Armageddon.



 I guess I was wrong. I guess I should have been reporting 


 on the impending collapse because President George Bush, 


 Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman 


 Ben Bernanke sure haven't had any such reservations about 


 scaring the bejesus out of us.



 What strikes me as particularly sad, however, is the clear 


 FACT that in all of the discussion about bailing out the 


 financiers and their agents who killed the American economy, 


 there has not been one mention of the real reason for 


 America's collapse, nor of what is needed to start the long 


 process of restoring the country back to some semblance of 


 economic health.



 The housing bubble and sub-prime loans are only part of the 


 problem.



 The real culprit is the fact that almost everything 


 Americans buy is made somewhere else. The country continues 


 to ship all of its wealth overseas. Did the economic policy 


 makers not watch the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in 


 Beijing? Have they not seen the 200-story skyscrapers going 


 up in Dubai?



 The core of America's economic problems stem from the trade 


 deficit and the elimination of tens of thousands of factories 


 and millions of jobs that were creating the wealth the 


 country needed to pay for everything. Without that wealth, 


 the financial sector invented playthings and the nation 


 borrowed until it could borrow no more.



 Oh, but wait! The answer to the problem is to borrow more 


 to bailout the people who over borrowed. The Paulson 


 proposal, unexpectedly defeated on Monday September 29 in a 


 harrowing live television broadcast, was to allow the U.S. 


 government to payoff bad debts by going deeper into debt. It 


 did not sit well with anybody.



 September 29, 2008, will be an important day in the history 


 of the American Republic. It is the day the American era 


 ended. Watching the live pictures on CNBC of the traders in 


 the pits watching the television monitors above their heads 


 as the vote on the House floor was tallied was like watching 


 New Yorkers standing in horror as they watched the burning 


 World Trade Center towers in 2001. The congressional vote 


 count was simulcast with the Dow, and they were crashing in 


 unison. There was shock in the eyes of the traders, and a 


 panic among the CNBC broadcasters, who couldn't believe what 


 they were witnessing. These men and women are consummate 


 professionals and are not prone to panic. But there they were 


 barking out: ''What's happening with gold?'' ''Look at the 


 oil markets!'' The market did what the towers did and what 


 our President predicted: it collapsed. For the second time in 


 seven years, the energy was visibly drained out of Lower 


 Manhattan and the country at large, as it realized a scary 


 new era had begun.



 Yet, there is still NOT ONE mention from anyone in power--


 especially not the two presidential candidates, nor of a 


 single congressional leader--of what is really needed to 


 bailout the United States.



 The only way out of this mess is for the United States do 


 everything it can to make the country what it was until 30 


 years ago: a nation that valued manufacturing.



 The U.S. economy long ago collapsed around domestic 


 manufacturers. Now it's collapsing around the financial 


 wizards who either forget or didn't know that their 


 livelihoods depended on a robust industry and workers making 


 livable wages.



 As someone who works in Washington, attends press 


 conferences, government meetings, congressional hearings and 


 who asks questions of the power elite, I can assure you from 


 first-hand experience that the United States government did 


 not do a single thing--nothing--to re-set the global ground 


 rules to allow U.S. industry and its millions of workers to 


 be competitive. In fact, all the rules were changed to favor 


 the foreign and financial interests. The country is now 


 paying the real price of saving a few bucks at Wal-Mart.



 The United States government and its elected reprsentatives 


 long ago stopped representing the interests of American 


 workers and American producers. If there is any silver lining 


 in the historic House vote on the Bailout Plan on September 


 29, it is that maybe Congress has woken up to the power of 


 the people. Unfortunately it was the wrong time to wake up. 


 ''The people'' must now pay the consequences of their elected 


 representative's somnambulance. They must now prepare to 


 confront the ''dire'' consequences caused by decades of Wall 


 Street's short-term focus on quarterly profits at the 


 exclusion of everything else.



 The country has a lot to learn from American manufacturers 


 and their workers, and it will not like what's coming one 


 bit.
