# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `7c413413aeca7e10aa4096acc9c22cc4`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Chairman, a government of the people only works when 
transparency and accountability are the watchwords of the day. This is 
vital when it comes to contracting. Democracy suffers when our 
government spends taxpayer money on contracts that can include fraud, 
waste, and abuse.

Nowhere is this more apparent than in defense-related contracts that 
are single-sourced


and rarely overseen. Our troops don't have the equipment they need in 
the field; and taxpayers are losing billions in fraud and abuse in 
contracts.

The bill before us today ends waste in Federal contracting, by 
reducing the use of no-bid contracts, mandating disclosure of no-bid 
contracts and contract overcharges, and closing the revolving door 
between government procurement officials and private contractors. The 
wasted money would be far better used to improve readiness needs--
currently in deep crisis.

We have to reconstruct our military that has been decimated by the 
Iraq war. A good beginning to that long and difficult task is providing 
open competition in contracting in order to provide the best services 
for our military in both wars.

Congress has exposed a pattern of reckless spending, poor planning, 
and ineffective oversight in contracting that has resulted in the waste 
of hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars in no-bid contracts for 
Halliburton and for contracts for Hurricane Katrina.

This legislation builds on the progress we are making to return to 
the basic principles of fiscal responsibility and to restore Congress's 
role as a check and balance to the Executive Branch, particularly on 
training and equipping of our troops, in order to make this government 
more accountable to the American people.

Specifically, the legislation would change Federal acquisition law to 
require agencies to limit the use of emergency no-bid contracts and to 
increase transparency and accountability in Federal contracting in an 
effort to protect the taxpayers' money. To restore accountability in 
the Federal contracting process, the bill would instruct agencies to 
minimize the use of no-bid contracts, promote the use of cost-effective 
fixed-price contracts, and limit the duration of no-bid contracts 
awarded in emergencies to one year.

It also promotes transparency by requiring public disclosure of the 
rationale for using no-bid contracts, and requiring agencies to report 
to Congress on overcharges in contracts. To improve the integrity in 
contracting, the bill closes the revolving door between government 
procurement officials and private contractors.

Spending on no-bid contracts has more than doubled under the Bush 
Administration with a 75 percent increase in spending on contracts that 
reward companies for every taxpayer dollar spent, not saved with more 
than $2.4 billion squandered on no-bid contracts for Halliburton in 
Iraq, with another or the other $23 billion for other abuse-prone 
contracts. That money lost to fraud and abuse would have gone a long 
way in equipping our troops in the field.

Mr. Chairman, our military readiness is in crisis in no small measure 
due to the waste, fraud and abuse that is inherent in how this 
government has awarded contracts in Iraq and elsewhere. I ask the House 
to join me in supporting this important legislation.