---
---

# DEPARTURE OF GREECE'S AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.
## `7c4399868cad801bdd1bfe2e4d2a1132`
`Mr. KERRY — 13 May 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, through my duties in the Senate I have an 
opportunity to work with many foreign ambassadors to the United States. 
I rise today to mention the contributions of one ambassador who is 
leaving Washington and returning to Athens, Greece, to serve his 
country at the Foreign Ministry: Ambassador Alexandros Mallias.

Ambassador Mallias worked hard to represent Greece and its historic 
culture--shared by three million Americans of Greek descent--to the 
United States and our Government. While the U.S. and Greece are 
strategic partners, working in concert on a host of issues from 
Afghanistan to anti-piracy operations, our shared values transcend our 
interests, and we hold in common a longstanding respect for democracy 
and freedom, whether in Boston or in Athens.

During his tenure, Ambassador Mallias was particularly active with 
Congress, and held many presentations and briefings for Senators, 
Members of Congress and their staffs. I especially appreciate his 
efforts in helping make the recent visit of Greece's Foreign Minister, 
Dora Bakoyannis, whom I had the pleasure to host at a Working Coffee of 
the Foreign Relations Committee, so productive. The Ambassador was also 
involved with think tanks, advocacy groups, grassroots organizations 
and universities, traveling widely in the U.S. to engage civic leaders, 
Greek Americans, students and other people on important bilateral 
issues. His work with Jewish and African American communities was also 
significant, earning him numerous commendations, including a Martin 
Luther King Award.

Many of us in Congress will miss his fine work and I wish him the 
very best.
