---
---

# YEAR OF THE MILITARY FAMILY
## `7c5b5c3603f3eacc1f0adafdb278893b`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 11 March 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. 
Res. 64, ''Urging the President to designate 2009 as the 'Year of the 
Military Family'.'' I want to thank my colleague Congressman Ike 
Skelton of Missouri for introducing this resolution.

No group of Americans has stood stronger and braver for our nation 
than those who have served in the Armed Forces. From the bitter cold 
winter at Valley Forge to the boiling hot Iraqi terrain, our soldiers 
have courageously answered when called upon, gone where ordered, and 
defended our nation with honor. Their noble service reminds us of our 
mission as a nation--to build a future worthy of their courage and your 
sacrifice. We celebrate, honor and remember these courageous and 
faithful men and women.

While the nation's attention has been wholly focused on the economic 
crisis, Americans continue to die in wars across the globe, from Iraq 
to Afghanistan and beyond. The war in Iraq no longer makes headlines, 
but for military families it remains a daily reality, and I urge my 
colleagues to recognize the challenges that the families of these brave 
soldiers face and support this resolution in their honor.

When American troops are the ones fighting abroad, it is our military 
families who must also suffer. They wait every day and night hoping to 
hear from their loved ones, praying that they are not put in harm's 
way, that they may come home soon. Too many families have not been so 
lucky, finding out the news of a loved one's death is not only 
emotionally traumatizing it can have long term effects for the family 
that may never be repaired.

We must all stand as champions for our men and women fighting abroad. 
These soldiers who bravely reported for duty, they are our sons and our 
daughters, they are our fathers and mothers, they are our husbands and 
wives, they are our fellow Americans.

There are over 26,550,000 veterans in the United States. In the 18th 
Congressional district of Texas alone there are more than 38,000 
veterans and they make up almost ten percent of this district's 
civilian population over the age of 18.

We remember and honor the sacrifices of our forces and their 
families. And we renew our national promise to fulfill our sacred 
obligations to those who have worn this nation's uniform. Our veterans 
and their families ask for nothing more. Let us fight the good fight.