---
---

# None
## `7c6d39b604292221aedf36b4492caf34`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Meek was right on. The 
new class that was sent here to Washington was sent here to make sure 
that this place is returned to that hardworking family that you are 
talking about.

You know, we know the statistics, the terrible statistics of the 
number of military families that are on food stamps, the number of 
military families, ex-military families that have to come to the 
government for some assistance just to get by every day. I mean, these 
are amongst the legions of families across this country that are 
scraping to get by every day.

We have a growing economy. You know the story, Mr. Meek. We have a 
growing economy. Production is up. GDP is up. And wages are flat. Wages 
for regular, ordinary Americans are going nowhere while wages for CEOs 
and the folks at the very top of that economic scale are doing very 
well.

And none of us begrudge folks that have done well in business making 
a dollar. I mean, that is the genius of our American economy. But what 
it does is it leaves all of those people behind while a very few at the 
top are well off.

Here is where we come in, I think. I think we come in in that our 
job, not necessarily to completely level that playing field, but our 
job certainly is not to exacerbate the differences that already exist. 
And when President Bush goes to Illinois, if he spends a little time 
moving away from the motorcade and the Secret Service lines, he will 
find a society there in which there are deep divisions between those 
folks in the middle that are just trying to cling on to that middle 
class, and the folks that are doing very well.



Our job, you know frankly, is to not make that situation worse. And 
the tax breaks that this previous Congress gave away to a lot of those 
oil companies, to the deals that they cut with the drug companies to 
give them record profits off this health care system, have left a lot 
of people behind, have left millions of hardworking Americans 
struggling, producing more, working harder than ever, and not seeing a 
return for their dollar.

You know the costs of this war. I have heard you talk about it on 
this floor. But we are spending $8 billion a month in Iraq right now. 
And we need to start having a conversation about how we spend that 
money here in the United States of America, and how we use that money 
to retrain workers that have been laid off due to the globalization of 
our economy.

We need to talk about how to spend that money to get kids an 
education that they deserve, to get them out of school in 4 years, 
rather than what is all too often happening, that it takes 6, 8, 10 
years for some students to get degrees. That is where we need to be 
investing.

That is the right thing for our economy. That is the right thing for 
our kids. And ultimately it is the right thing for our men and women 
that are fighting overseas. So I appreciate the focus that we are going 
to hopefully be able to add to the President's visit, to make sure that 
when he goes out there into the world that he sees all of America, that 
he does not just see the folks that have been the beneficiaries of the 
largesse of government in this Congress for all too long, the oil 
companies, the drug companies, the Fortune 500s, that he sees the rest 
of the folks that are struggling.

Now, he is going to get an opportunity, as you know, Mr. Speaker and 
Members, to do right by those folks, because hopefully we are going to 
get to his desk an increase in the minimum wage, we are going to get to 
his desk a decrease in the student loan rate. We are going to put on 
his desk for his signature a repeal of those massive tax breaks to the 
oil companies.

He is going to have a choice then, and I hope he listens to what 
happened on election day. I hope he listens to the legions of folks who 
sent us here, some of us for the first time and others back for another 
tour of duty in this Chamber. I hope that he listens to the folks that 
are asking this government to start sticking up for people that have 
had very little voice, very little voice except for some people 
standing here late at night trying to shed light on what has been 
really happening in this country, Mr. Meek.