# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `7c765d3693fe50690a313704a8f88eb5`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I thank the gentleman from Ohio.

Let me just say at the outset while I am speaking on behalf of the 
same resolution the gentleman just before me spoke on behalf of, I 
couldn't disagree more that our interests do lie in protecting our 
national security by being in Afghanistan. My opposition is our 
strategy. My opposition is that somehow we are going to control the 
ground by maneuvering ourselves militarily to control the ground as if 
it is a nation-state.

I hear my colleagues talk about the flag of Afghanistan as if 
Afghanistan is a country. In case anybody has bothered to look at it, 
it is a loose collection of 121 different sovereign tribes, none of 
whom get along with each other, and it is a mountainous terrain of rock 
and gravel; and the notion that our soldiers are over there laying down 
their lives to secure ground. We ought to be after the Taliban and the 
terrorists, anybody who is organizing to strike at our country. I am 
for that.

But I am not for organizing an organized military campaign where we 
are having to go in and take in these towns and subject our soldiers to 
unnecessary threats where we are putting our treasure and the lives of 
our men and women in uniform on the line unnecessarily.

Now, someone, I can't even believe I heard this, said, oh, I can't go 
to a funeral and tell the parents of someone who just died that they 
lost their child in vain. Somewhere I heard that during the Vietnam 
war. So what is it we have to do? We have to double down on a bad 
policy to protect the honor of those who have already died? I don't 
think so. There isn't a soldier in this country who has laid down their 
lives for our Nation that isn't a hero. And no one in here disagrees 
with that.

What is shameful is our policy that puts them in harm's way when they 
don't need to be. And make no mistake about it, this is not about 
national security. Because if it is about national security, it is 
about whether we put our treasure and our lives on the line in 
Afghanistan, or whether we put it in Kuwait, or whether we put it in 
the Sudan, or whether we put it in some other place in the world, all 
of which is where we need it.

Where do we need it the most? That should be the question. Because we 
don't have the resources to put it everywhere. So don't come and tell 
me our national security requires that we have it in Afghanistan 
because that is not the only place we need it. The question is where 
our priorities should be. And you take it from one place, you have to 
put it somewhere else.