# HONORING MARINE LANCE CPL. JEREMY L. TINNEL
## `7c79ea7251cfc32d58b692c4aa0e9965`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER â€” 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
Marine Lance Corporal Jeremy L. Tinnel, who died the first of July 2007 
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Lance Cpl. Jeremy L. Tinnel, 20, of Mechanicsville, Virginia, died of 
injuries sustained from a non-hostile accident during combat operations 
on the Euphrates River just off the shore of Al Anbar Province, Iraq. 
Tinnel was assigned to 1st Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment, II Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.

Jeremy was promoted to Lance Corporal January 1, 2007. His military 
decorations include the Combat Action Ribbon, Iraq Campaign Medal, 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, National Defense Service Medal 
and the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon. Tinnel left for his second 
deployment to Iraq on March 7, 2007.

In May 2007, Marine Lance Cpl. Jeremy L. Tinnel was injured by an 
improvised explosive device. Lance Corporal Tinnel was a turret gunner 
on a Humvee during a routine patrol on May 14, 2007 when an IED 
detonated near the right side of the vehicle. The blast blew away the 
wheels, hood and engine block, and sent the wreckage screeching across 
the road. However, he remained in Iraq and returned to duty after about 
a week's recovery.

Born in Richmond, Virginia, Jeremy grew up in Highland Springs and 
Sandston, Virginia and was home-schooled. He lived in Mechanicsville, 
Virginia before joining the Marines in August 2004. While in North 
Carolina, Tinnel met ''the love of his life.'' He and his wife, Angel 
Nichole Tinnel of Havre de Grace, Maryland, were married in December, 
2006 during a small ceremony in Mechanicsville.

Before joining the Marine Corps, Tinnel volunteered for many summers 
in eastern Henrico County, Virginia at the New Bridge Baptist Church's 
summer camp ministry and created a puppet character for the church's 
children's ministry that had a pointy green head, red hair and an 
English accent.

In addition to his wife, survivors include his father, Herold Tinnel, 
and stepmother, Joyce


Tinnel, of Sandston, Virginia; two sisters, Christy Flowers of Charles 
City County, Virginia and Laura Tinnel of Sandston, Virginia; and a 
brother, James Tinnel of Sandston, Virginia.

Madam Speaker, today I ask that you join with me in honoring the life 
of a man truly dedicated to serving his country.
