# FREEDOM OF SPEECH
## `7c7ca6dd1b8de974bca215870d3feed2`
`Mr. REID — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Freedom of speech is one of the country's most cherished 
values. Nothing sets us farther apart from the countries and regimes we 
oppose than our belief that everyone's opinion matters--everyone's--and 
that everyone has a right to express it. That is why when we hear 
things on the radio and other places that are offensive, by and large 
we tolerate them. But last week Rush Limbaugh went way over the line. 
While I respect his right to say anything he likes, his unpatriotic 
comments cannot be ignored. During his show last Wednesday, Limbaugh 
was engaged in one of his typical rants. This one was unremarkable and 
indistinguishable from his usual dribble which has been steadily losing 
listeners for years, until he crossed that line by calling our men and 
women in uniform who oppose the war in Iraq ''phony soldiers.'' This 
comment was so beyond the pale of decency we can't leave it alone. Yet 
he followed it up with denials and an attack on Congressman Jack 
Murtha, who was a 37-year active member of the Marine Corps, a combat 
veteran.

We have been debating the Iraq war in the Senate and throughout the 
country, not for months but for years. There are good, patriotic 
Americans who favor the war and good, patriotic Americans who oppose 
President


Bush's first getting us into war and the way he has handled the war. 
Neither party holds a patent on patriotism. I know all of my Republican 
colleagues would agree with this, or at least I hope so. Yet Rush 
Limbaugh took it upon himself to attack the courage and character of 
those fighting and dying for him and for all of us. Rush Limbaugh got 
himself a deferment from serving when he was a young man. He never 
served in uniform. He never saw a person in the extreme difficulty of 
maintaining peace in a foreign country engaged in civil war. He never 
saw a person in combat. Yet he thinks his opinion on the war is worth 
more than those who have been on the front lines. What is worse, 
Limbaugh's show is broadcast on Armed Forces Radio which means that 
thousands of troops overseas and veterans here at home were forced to 
hear this attack on their patriotism. Rush Limbaugh owes the men and 
women of our Armed Forces an apology.

This past Friday, many Democrats joined me in drafting a letter to 
the chief executive officer of Clear Channel, Mark Mays, that we will 
send out this week. Here is what we wrote:




 Dear Mr. Mays, At the time we sign this letter, 3,801 


 American soldiers have been killed in Iraq, and another 


 27,936 have been wounded. 160,000 others awoke this morning 


 on foreign sand, far from home, to face the danger and 


 uncertainty of another day at war. Although Americans of 


 goodwill debate the merits of this war, we can all agree that 


 those who serve with such great courage deserve our deepest 


 respect and gratitude. That is why Rush Limbaugh's recent 


 characterization of troops who oppose the war as ''phony 


 soldiers'' is such an outrage. Our troops are fighting and 


 dying to bring to others the freedoms that many take for 


 granted. It is unconscionable that Mr. Limbaugh would 


 criticize them for exercising the fundamentally American 


 right to free speech. Mr. Limbaugh has made outrageous 


 remarks before, but this affront to our soldiers is beyond 


 the pale. The military, like any community within the United 


 States, includes members both for and against the war. Senior 


 generals, such as General John Batiste and Paul Eaton, have 


 come out against the war while others have publicly supported 


 it. A December 2006 poll conducted by the Military Times 


 found just 35 percent of service members approved of 


 President Bush's handling of the war in Iraq, compared to 42 


 percent who disapproved. From this figure alone, it is clear 


 that Mr. Limbaugh's insult is directed at thousands of 


 American service members. Active and retired members of our 


 armed forces have a unique perspective on the war and offer a 


 valuable contribution to our national debate. In August, 


 seven soldiers wrote an op-ed expressing their concern with 


 the current strategy in Iraq. Tragically, since then, two of 


 those seven soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice in 


 Iraq. Thousands of active troops and veterans were subjected 


 to Mr. Limbaugh's unpatriotic and indefensible comments on 


 your broadcast. We trust you will agree that not a single one 


 of our sons, daughters, neighbors and friends serving 


 overseas is a ''phony soldier.'' We call on you to publicly 


 repudiate these comments that call into question their 


 service and sacrifice and to ask Mr. Limbaugh to apologize 


 for his comments.


Just as patriotism is the exclusive realm of neither party, taking a 
stand against those who spew hate and impugn the integrity of our 
troops is a job that belongs to both parties. I can't help but wonder 
how my Republican colleagues would have reacted if the tables were 
turned--if a well-known Democratic radio personality had used the same 
insulting line of attack against troops who support the war. The letter 
I read will be available on the Senate floor all day. During the votes, 
after the votes, colleagues on both sides of the aisle will have every 
chance to add their names to it. I encourage all to do so. If we take 
the Republican side at their word that last week's vote on another 
controversial statement related to the war was truly about patriotism, 
not politics, then I have no doubt they will stand with us against 
Limbaugh's comments with equal fervor.

I am confident we will see Republicans join with us in overwhelming 
numbers. ''Confident'' is the wrong word. ''Hopeful'' is the right 
word. I am hopeful we will see Republicans join with us in overwhelming 
numbers. Anything less would be a double standard that has no place in 
the Senate.

I ask my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, to join together 
against this irresponsible, hateful, and unpatriotic attack by calling 
upon Rush Limbaugh to give our troops the apology they deserve. I hope 
all will sign this letter.
