---
---

# RECOGNIZING NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS OF THE U.S. ARMY
## `7c85664b03757bfcd1e2e6f971909fee`
`Mr. MARSHALL — 27 July 2009`

---


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, earlier this year, the Chief and the 
Secretary of the Army declared this year to be the ''Year of the NCO'' 
within the United States Army. Chairman Skelton would be here today to 
handle this motion but for the fact that he is at Walter Reed Hospital 
visiting a constituent who has been injured in service to the country 
in Iraq or Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, the NCO, the noncommissioned officer, is often described 
as the backbone of the Army. The NCO is also described as the eyes and 
ears of the commander. I was an NCO in Vietnam myself, a little bit 
young compared to the NCOs we have today, too wet behind the ears to 
really be a good NCO because a really good NCO is not just backbone and 
eyes and ears, a really good NCO is a teacher, a leader, almost a 
father or a mother to the young soldiers that work in the unit that 
that NCO is in charge of.

NCOs not only train those soldiers, guide those soldiers, try and 
instill in those soldiers a real spirit of what it is like to be a 
soldier, what it is like to be a good human being, instilling values, 
courage, teaching, training, techniques, you name it, but in addition 
to that, good NCOs do the same thing for young officers, instilling in 
young officers the kind of experience and wisdom that young officers 
need to gain as they mature.

NCOs are essentially foremen. They are superintendents. Without 
NCOs--and we have had them for over 230 years--this Army would not be 
what it is today. There is no question about that. They serve with 
honor. In today's Army, they sacrifice a great deal, both themselves 
and their families.

There are many examples of courage under fire by NCOs. Over 100 Medal 
of Honor winners are NCOs in the United States from the United States 
Army. And I can't think of a more fitting tribute, in light of the fact 
that the Secretary and Chief have declared this to be the Year of the 
NCO, than that all of us vote in favor of this motion which honors our 
NCOs in the United States Army.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.