# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7c925a466cb0aa41ecc6065c935ebf5f`
`Mr. LEVIN — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I support the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act for 2010.

This legislation provides the funding our men and women in uniform 
need to continue their efforts on behalf of our Nation. The $128.3 
billion included in this bill to fund operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan is an important statement of support for the troops who are 
serving so bravely so far from home.

This bill also includes important measures that will help Michigan 
and other states weather the economic strain they now face.

Most important of these are provisions that will extend unemployment 
benefits and Federal assistance to offset the costs of health insurance 
for those who have lost their jobs. Existing unemployment benefits are 
expected to expire at the end of this year. I am pleased that under 
this bill, benefits will be extended to February 28, 2010, making many 
Michiganders and other Americans eligible for expanded benefits that 
provide more support, and for a longer duration. This is crucial 
assistance to families coping with the devastation of job loss.

In addition, the bill extends from nine to 15 months the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act's assistance to workers who have 
involuntarily lost their jobs to pay for health coverage under COBRA. 
That assistance pays up to 65 percent of workers' COBRA premiums. Under 
current law, workers who lose their jobs after December 31 would not be 
eligible for this assistance, but the bill extends that deadline to 
February 28, 2010, ensuring that thousands of Americans will not have 
to deal with the loss of health care at the same time they face the 
loss of a job.

The legislation also would continue improvements in Small Business 
Administration loan programs, improvements enacted in the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act to make SBA loan guarantee programs more 
attractive to borrowers and lenders. Through February 28, 2010, the SBA 
would be able to continue offering guarantees up to 90 percent of loan 
amounts, and to continue waiving or reducing loan fees. Access to 
capital is among the biggest factors keeping companies from hiring, and 
continuing these measures is an important step toward boosting 
employment.

This bill also includes provisions to ensure that the Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program, SNAP, has the funding required to meet 
increasing demand, and to provide States with funding to process the 
growing number of applications for the program more quickly. And it 
will maintain 2009 poverty guidelines for Health and Human Services 
programs through February 28, 2010, preventing a loss of eligibility 
for many recipients of means-tested programs, including Medicaid, SNAP 
and child nutrition programs. These provisions will prevent the opening 
of holes in our social safety net just as Americans are most in need of 
support.

These provisions are much needed to help blunt the impact of 
recession on America's workers as we work toward a brighter economic 
future.
