---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `7c9e1c01515305ee2ffb90e53386f049`
`Mr. REID — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, whatever time I have left I will add to 
that leader time.

Madam President, on the eve of the fifth anniversary of this 
protracted war in Iraq, the Senate finally considers important 
legislation to direct President Bush to change the course of this civil 
war. S.J. Res. 9, which is a joint resolution to revise U.S. policy in 
Iraq, is one I offered. The second vote will be on the Murray 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that no action be taken 
to undermine the safety of the Armed Forces. Finally, S. Con. Res. 20 
is the Gregg resolution on funding for American troops in the field. I 
will discuss at some length at a later time this afternoon the 
difference between Murray and Gregg. Suffice it to say the Murray 
resolution takes care of the troops after battle in addition to while 
they are in Iraq. It takes care of the situation so we don't have 
another Walter Reed situation. The Gregg resolution does not cover the 
troops after battle.

As it relates to S.J. Res. 9, Members will have to consider a choice: 
Will we continue to support President Bush's failed policy that has our 
troops bogged down in the middle of a civil war while the enemy who 
attacked us on September 11 grows stronger or will we stand with the 
American people in demanding a new direction for this war? This new 
direction maximizes our chances for success in Iraq and in that part of 
the world, a new direction that recognizes the current policy has 
pushed our troops and their families to the breaking point, a new 
direction which sends a signal to the President that this Congress will 
hold him accountable and no longer will we rubberstamp his failed 
policies; a new direction that restores U.S. standing in the world and 
refocuses our resources on our most imminent threats. My hope is we 
will stand with the American people, because they are standing with 
this resolution, S.J. Res. 9. We must have a new direction in Iraq.

Monday will be the beginning of the fifth year of this war, the fifth 
year of


this war our troops are now mired in, a war in this faraway country. 
Five years of war, of the President's approach to Iraq, and it is clear 
it is not working. The country is in a state of chaos. Iraq is in a 
state of chaos. There literally is no stability. U.S. troops are 
policing a civil war, a protracted civil war, not hunting and killing 
the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11. Five years. Five years of war.

The mission has changed. Saddam is gone. There are no weapons of mass 
destruction. The original mission no longer exists. Five years of war 
with 3,200 dead Americans, 25,000 wounded Americans, hundreds of 
billions of dollars spent, $4 billion a week, a couple of hundred 
million dollars a day and still no end in sight, according to this 
President. The American military, the finest in the world, cannot and 
should not police an Iraqi civil war. General Petraeus's name has been 
thrown around here as if it is his war. It is not his war. It is 
President Bush's war. General Petraeus, the commander in Iraq today, 
recently observed there is no military solution in Iraq. The war must 
be ultimately won through diplomacy, politically, by forcing Iraq's 
political factions to resolve their differences.

The key to success in Iraq is not to escalate the conflict by adding 
tens of thousands of additional troops to march down the same road. 
Some of these troops have been down the same road as many as four and 
five times. It is time to find a new way forward and a new way home 
that gives our troops a strategy to complete the mission and, I repeat, 
come home.

The Reid resolution will give our troops the best chance to succeed 
in Iraq and to succeed in the larger war on terror. It will direct the 
President to change course in Iraq by changing the mission in Iraq. 
This resolution immediately transitions the mission to training, force 
protection, targeting counterterrorist operations, and beginning the 
redeployment of our troops in the next 120 days.

Similar to the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, the goal in my resolution 
is to remove all combat forces not associated with these missions by 
the spring of 2008. My resolution also recognizes a comprehensive 
strategy in Iraq. Phased redeployment shall be implemented as part of a 
comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategy that 
includes Iraq's neighbors and the international community.

S. Res. 107, the Murray alternative to the Gregg resolution, strongly 
supports our troops but also properly interprets the Constitution by 
stating that the President and the Congress have shared 
responsibilities for decisions involving our Armed Forces.

Quoting from the resolution:




 The President and the Congress should not take any action 


 that will endanger the Armed Forces of the United States, and 


 will provide necessary funds for the training, equipment, and 


 other support for troops in the field, as such actions will 


 ensure their safety and effectiveness in preparing for and 


 carrying out their assigned missions.


In addition, the Murray resolution makes it clear that the 
Constitution gives Congress the responsibility, in addition to the 
President, to take actions to help our troops and veterans. The Murray 
resolution says that our responsibility to our troops doesn't begin and 
end when they are deployed. Supporting the troops means giving them the 
proper training before they are deployed and ensuring they receive the 
proper medical and other support when they return home.

Madam President, I suggest that voting no on the Murray resolution is 
voting to condone what has taken place at Walter Reed. The Murray 
resolution recognizes that the troops must be taken care of not only 
when they are in battle but when they get out of battle. If there were 
ever a picture of what is wrong, look at what happened at Walter Reed. 
The Murray amendment underscores that.

The people voting against the Murray amendment will be voting against 
changing what took place at Walter Reed.

The Department of Defense said yesterday in a report they issued--the 
Pentagon issued--that there is a civil war going on in Iraq now, as we 
speak. The Pentagon, in their report yesterday, said violence is up, 
not down. Three soldiers a day are being killed. February was the month 
of more attacks than at any time during this 5-year war.

Al Maliki, when he met with the President face to face, said get the 
American troops out of Baghdad. He is the leader of Iraq. General 
Casey, who was a commander at the time the President suggested the 
surge, said the surge won't work. This is not General Petraeus's war, 
it is President Bush's war, and we must change course.

In our resolution, there is a 120-day redeployment, and there will be 
work on counterterrorism, force protection, and training. Yes, they 
will also do political and economic strategy, and certainly diplomacy. 
Our goal is the spring of 2008.

It is easy to talk about sending the troops into battle and 
supporting the troops. I support the troops. I support the troops, but 
I don't think that we should spill another drop of American blood in 
Iraq--not another drop of blood.

I spoke to the mother of LCpl Raul Bravo a week ago today. She is the 
mother of that 21-year-old boy who was killed in Iraq. It was his 
second tour of duty. She said that ''he is the only man in our 
family''--her and his three sisters. She said that he was an angel. Her 
son did his best to learn to speak the language of the Iraqis. She said 
he said prayers with the Iraqis. His blood should not have been left in 
that faraway place.

The war has gone on too long. We must change direction in Iraq. We 
have given the President chance after chance. We hear that things are 
getting better. His own Pentagon says it is a civil war. His own 
Pentagon says it is getting worse. That is what these resolutions are 
about today.

The Reid resolution says let's change direction in Iraq. The Murray 
resolution says support the troops at all times. The Gregg resolution 
takes Congress out of the equation and doesn't do a thing for the 
troops when they come home.








Unanimous Consent Agreement--Executive Calendar


Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that following these votes, 
the Senate proceed to executive session to consider en bloc the 
following nominations:

Calendar No. 36, John Preston Baily of West Virginia, to be a 
district judge.

Calendar No. 37, Otis D. Wright, II, of California, to be a district 
judge.

Calendar No. 42, Thomas M. Hardiman, of Pennsylvania, to be a circuit 
court judge for the Third Circuit.

Further, I ask unanimous consent that there be 20 minutes for debate, 
equally divided, under the control of Senators Leahy and Specter or 
their designees on the three nominations; that when the time is used or 
yielded back, the Senate proceed to vote on the confirmation of each of 
the nominations in the above order; that the motions to reconsider be 
laid on the table, the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action, and the Senate then resume legislative session.