---
---

# VETERANS DAY
## `7ca01d84f930a25630d4b82494902b43`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 20 November 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of 
Veterans Day. This national holiday serves as reminder of the enormous 
sacrifices that brave men and women have made for the ideals and 
beliefs that all Americans value. Veterans Day is also an opportunity 
to give thanks to the hundreds of thousands of armed forces personnel 
serving our country to protect our Nation and to secure the peace 
around the world.

To mark this special holiday, I had the honor of attending both a 
ceremony for Mexican American Post 5, where I learned of the hardships 
faced by American soldiers of Mexican descent, and the Minnesota State 
Veterans Day program to pay tribute to the men and women serving our 
country in uniform. This year, I also had the privilege of visiting our 
troops in Afghanistan and Pakistan to witness the tremendous sacrifice 
they and their families make each day.

On the battlefield, the U.S. Armed Forces pledge to leave no soldier 
behind. As a nation, it must be our promise that when they return home, 
we leave no veteran behind. Fully preparing our troops, and providing 
the necessary healthcare, education, and disability benefits to meet 
the needs of our veterans, is our responsibility and moral obligation.

The 110th Congress has honored our commitment to veterans by making 
their needs a priority. This Congress passed the largest funding 
increase in the history of the Department of Veterans Affairs, which 
ensures that our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan receive 
the quality health and mental health care they deserve. This year, we 
have also provided tax relief for military families, increased pay for 
members of our armed services, established a suicide prevention 
program, improved housing assistances for homeless veterans, and helped 
military families avoid home foreclosure. Lastly, this Democratic led 
Congress passed a GI bill for the 21st century that fully restores 
four-year college scholarships for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, on a 
par with the educational benefits after World War II.

The men and women of the armed forces who have served this country 
with honor during times of war and peace deserve the best this country 
can afford. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress 
and President Obama to ensure veterans receive the highest level of 
care and compensation they have so bravely earned serving this country. 
This is a commitment to which I hold fast on Veterans Day and everyday.

To all veterans, you have my thanks and that of a grateful nation.
