---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `7cb3a04345c18187ce08485163fa6132`
`Mr. SANDERS — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, recently in my home State of Vermont, the 
Vermont State Senate, with a very strong vote, passed a resolution in 
opposition to the war in Iraq and demanding that our troops come home 
as soon as possible. It is appropriate our legislature has done that 
because in Vermont we have paid a very high price for this war. In 
fact, in terms of per capita loss, the State of Vermont is higher, 
tragically, than any other State in this country.

In my home State of Vermont, and I believe all across this country, 
the American people are deeply concerned about the war. They want real 
debate here in Washington on the issue and, most importantly, they want 
reaction. That is why I will vote for cloture on S.J. Res. 9 and why I 
will then proceed, if I am allowed to, if the Republicans allow us to 
cast that vote, to vote for this resolution.

Let me say a word about the resolution itself, which is very clear 
and to my mind directly addresses the central concerns of the majority 
of Americans who, in the elections last November, made it as clear as 
they could that they want a new course in Iraq. They do not want more 
of the same, they want a new direction.

The joint resolution we are debating backs our troops, it fully 
supports our troops, but recognizes that circumstances in Iraq have 
changed dramatically and most importantly establishes a goal of 
removing U.S. combat troops by March 2008.

It requires the troop redeployment out of Iraq begin no later than 4 
months after the legislation is enacted. The goal it sets of 
redeploying most of our troops out of Iraq, March 31, 2008, happens to 
be the very same date proposed by the bipartisan and well-respected 
Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group. So this follows very closely the line 
of thought of the Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group.

It allows troops to remain in Iraq for three purposes: to protect 
Americans still working on Iraqi reconstruction, to train the Iraqi 
police and their military, and to engage in counterterrorism 
operations.

In my view, President Bush's war in Iraq has been an unmitigated 
disaster. It is a war many of us understood we should never have gotten 
into in the first place. It is a war this administration was totally 
unprepared to fight, where some people in the administration were 
talking about how the Iraqis would be throwing flowers at our troops--
not roadside bombs but flowers--and that our troops would be coming 
home after a ''cakewalk,'' in a couple of months.

That was what they were talking about. It is a war that unfortunately 
and tragically has cost us terribly in terms of American blood. As of 
today, we have lost almost 3,200 brave American soldiers, almost 24,000 
more have been wounded. Let me tell you very clearly that the evidence 
is overwhelming that tens of thousands more of these brave soldiers 
fighting in Iraq are going to be coming home with post-traumatic stress 
disorder or coming back home with traumatic brain injury. That is the 
reality of what this war has cost us up to now.

This at a time when we do not have the funding to adequately take 
care of our veterans, as we have seen at Walter Reed, at a time when 
middle-class families cannot afford to send their kids to college, at a 
time when this Nation has the highest rate of childhood poverty in the 
industrialized world, at a time when hunger in America is substantially 
increasing. This war, with the President's proposed increase, will cost 
us some $500 billion and that price tag is going up by $8 billion every 
month.

This cost is not only going to take money away from the pressing 
needs of the middle-class and working families of this country, but it 
is going to add to the $8.5 trillion national debt which this country 
currently has.

This is a war that has caused unspeakable horror for the people of 
Iraq--not just for our families who have suffered losses but for the 
people of Iraq. People who had suffered so long


under the horrendous brutality of the Saddam Hussein dictatorship are 
suffering even more today. We are looking at a nation in the process of 
disintegration. That is Iraq today. There are estimates that hundreds 
of thousands of Iraqis have been killed--some estimates go as high as 
500,000--and almost 2 million Iraqis have fled their own country. In 
fact, anyone in Iraq who has any money at all, anyone who is part of 
the middle class, is trying to get out of that country as quickly as 
possible, and about 8 percent of Iraqis have had to flee their own 
country.

As I speak, President Bush is returning from a trip to Latin America. 
Wherever he spoke, he encountered massive protests. In country after 
country he discovered that people in Latin America hold our Nation in 
extremely low esteem, largely because of his ill-advised decision to 
invade Iraq and the disastrous way in which the Iraq occupation has 
been managed. That is certainly true not just in Latin America, it is 
true all over the world. How are we, as the most powerful military 
force in the world, going to be able to lead the world in the very 
important fight against international terrorism and Islamic extremism 
when in country after country leaders do not want to identify with us 
because of the policies of the President of the United States.


In the days immediately following
9/11, the world rallied around the United States when we were 
grievously attacked; not just leaders but the huge majority of people 
in nations all over the world expressed their support and expressed 
their concern for the United States. They were on our side, not just 
for reasons of compassion but understanding that we had to work 
together as a planet, as a civilized world in addressing the attacks of 
extremists and fundamentalists and terrorists. We had to work together 
and the United States was prepared to play a leadership role.

Tragically, that reality is no longer the case. We are now held in 
lower esteem internationally than ever before in the modern history of 
America. That is not just a bad thing in the sense of our young people 
going to Europe and finding out they are not respected or that our 
country is not respected, it is a bad thing if we are serious about 
trying to develop an international consensus to fight the very serious 
problem of international terrorism.

Tragically, the Bush administration has refused to listen to the 
American people who, in the national election this past November, made 
it very clear they want a new direction in Iraq and they want this war 
wound down. They did not vote for an escalation in this war, they voted 
to wind down the war. This administration has not only not listened to 
the American people, they have refused to listen to the thoughtful 
suggestions of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. This administration has 
refused to listen to the advice of our military leaders in Iraq who 
have told us that increasing troops from the United States would make 
it easier for the Iraqi Government and military to avoid their 
political and military responsibilities: Why make the hard political 
decisions? Why make the hard financial decisions? You don't have to do 
that. Uncle Sam is there to provide you with the troops. The American 
taxpayer is there to provide you with the money. You don't have to make 
those choices.

This administration has not only refused to listen to the American 
people, to our military, to the Iraq Study Group, perhaps most 
importantly they have refused to listen to the Iraqi people themselves 
who, according to a number of polls, tell us very strongly they believe 
that in the midst of all of the chaos, all of the horror that is taking 
place in their country, they would be more safe, they would be more 
secure if our troops left their country.

If President Bush will not listen to anybody, including the American 
people, including former generals, including the Iraq Study Group, 
including international public opinion, then it is up to Congress to 
tell him it is time to move in a new direction in Iraq. In the 2006 
elections, in my view, the people of Vermont and of this Nation told us 
they wanted Congress to begin asserting its constitutional authority 
over this war and that they wanted us to rein in this administration. 
Most important, they told us they wanted us to begin the process of 
bringing our troops home as soon as possible. As a Vermont Senator, 
that is exactly the effort I intend to make. We must bring our troops 
home instead of leaving them to be embattled referees of a civil war 
that only the Iraqis--not our brave soldiers--can stop.

Iraq's Government and its military must step up and accept their 
political and military responsibilities. As the Baker-Hamilton 
commission said, that will only happen when we insist that the Iraqis 
and not American troops are responsible for the future of Iraq.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.