# None
## `7cc477794b94e1024e52361d90d9488c`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, just a few minutes ago, Vice President 
Cheney attacked the Senate majority leader on Iraq. He accused him of 
making ''uninformed and misleading'' statements, of defeatism, and of 
playing politics with the war.

Senator Reid's interest is in protecting our troops and our national 
security and bringing the war to an end. He is rightly responding to 
the American people by demanding a change in our failed policy in Iraq. 
He is right to insist that the Iraqis take responsibility for their own 
security and their own future and that our troops need begin to 
withdraw from Iraq.

It is Vice President Cheney who has been wrong--and deadly wrong--
about Iraq.

Even more, Vice President Cheney is the last person in the 
administration who should accuse anyone of making uninformed and 
misleading statements.

The Vice President misled the American people in August 2002, when he 
insisted that we ''know that Saddam has resumed his efforts to acquire 
nuclear weapons'' and that ''many . . . are convinced that Saddam will 
acquire nuclear weapons fairly soon.''

The Vice President misled the American people in March 2003, when he 
said that Saddam Hussein ''has a long-standing relationship with 
various terrorist groups, including the al-Qaeda organization.''

The Vice President misled the American people when he insisted that 
our troops would ''be greeted as liberators.''

The Vice President misled the American people when he insisted that 
the insurgency is ''in the last throes.''

He and the entire administration continue to mislead the American 
people when they insist that progress is being made in Iraq.

The facts speak for themselves. Iraq is sliding deeper and deeper 
into the abyss of civil war.

Violence and casualties are increasing. Already 3,335 American 
soldiers have been killed, and more than 320 of them have been killed 
since the surge began.

Civilians continue to flee the violence in Baghdad as the violence 
there continues unabated.

Senator Reid is right to insist that we change the mission for our 
troops in Iraq and set a target date to bring them home. The American 
people agree.

America never should have gone to war when we did, the way we did, 
and for the false reasons we were given. It is the Vice President who 
has been playing politics with the war in Iraq for more than 4 years. 
The American people understand this and will rightly reject the Vice 
President's fingerpointing.

I yield the floor.