---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `7cc6ac0df2d069c05df183bb7c3e712e`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I thank you, Mr. Meek. I appreciate the 
point.

You talked about record profits. Let's talk about some meat on the 
bones here. A 311 percent increase in profits for the oil industry from 
2002 to 2007. It may just be a coincidence that that time about 
correlates with the moment that they started sitting in those secret 
meetings, Mr. Meek, in Vice President Cheney's office to negotiate this 
new energy policy into the Bush administration. But I don't think it's 
a coincidence.

I think you can directly correlate the moment at which the oil 
companies started seeing this 311 percent increase in profits begin 
with the moment at which they were let in the door to start writing 
America's energy policy. Because that is what happened.

We put two oil men in the White House, in President and the Vice 
President seat, and we got, as a result of it, the highest gas prices 
in the history of this Nation, a 300 percent increase in the profits to 
their friends in the oil industry, and families having to make 
decisions about whether they feed their kids or whether they fill up 
their gas tank to get to work the next day.

That is not coincidence. That is not chance. That is the result of 
putting two people in charge of this administration that made their 
fortune in the oil industry and who have friends that they have allowed 
into the room to write the very legislation that has led to the 
situation that we are in today. It's not just conjecture.

Let's take a look just in the last year and a half at what we have 
been doing here and who's been standing in the way. This is probably 
not readable to the Speaker and to our colleagues here, but can you get 
the picture here.

The Renewable Energy and Jobs Act that we passed just a few months 
ago, investing millions of dollars into renewal energy that would 
actually compete with the oil industry, would make us energy 
independent, as we talk about all the time. Veto threat in the 
President of the United States. The Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act 
that held OPEC and the oil companies accountable for price fixing; for 
getting together and trying to decide what the price of oil should be. 
The President once again threatens to veto it.

Commonsense legislation. Repealing the subsidies, the tax subsidies 
that that energy bill that the oil industry wrote, repealing those tax 
subsidies and instead, this just seems like common sense, turning those 
subsidies that the Republicans and the President were giving to the oil 
industry, instead give them to consumers and small businesses and 
people who want to invest in things and energy technology in their 
homes to get them off of oil. Another veto threat from the President.

Cracking down on price gouging. Fifty-six Republicans joining us on 
that bill. Veto threat from the President. Again, a second bill, this 
time with 125 Republicans supporting the measure.



This measure was to go after the OPEC countries and oil cartels for 
price fixing. Another veto threat by the President. Over and over 
again.

This Congress in the last year-and-a-half has been doing what we were 
sent here to do, represent and stick up for all of those middle-class 
families out there that are getting it stuck to them at the pumps. The 
way we say that we can do that best is to go right at the people who 
are getting rich off of these exorbitant oil prices, those oil 
companies. And every time that we have done it, virtually every time we 
have done it, we have had a President standing in the way. It 
continues.

We just find out the other day, Mr. Meek, that this administration 
has been helping the oil companies negotiate no-bid contracts to get 
their newly found oil out of the fields in Iraq.