---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7cc805c1a8002ad1f9e554c2ca5bdd97`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 23 December 2009`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 
3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 
2010. This legislation provides the needed support, resources, and 
equipment for America's brave men and women in uniform.

With the passage of H.R. 3326, Congress will affirm its commitment to 
America's Armed Forces, both overseas in a theater of war and here at 
home when they return from duty. I am pleased that this bill recognizes 
the incredible sacrifice made by our troops and their families. It 
provides an increase in military pay, first-class medical care, and 
expanded support and counseling for military families enduring the 
burdens of war.

But the sacrifices made for national security should not be for our 
troops and their families to bear alone. When the country commits to 
fighting a war, it must also commit to paying for it. All additional 
funding necessary for stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan must be 
paid for today, rather than added to America's mounting debt. That is 
why I joined my colleagues in cosponsoring H.R. 4130, a bill that would 
establish a temporary surtax to pay for the war in Afghanistan.

Madam Speaker, I am also pleased that H.R. 3326 increases oversight 
of the Department of Defense to reign in waste, fraud, and abuse. It 
ensures that defense personnel--not outside contractors--perform the 
department's most critical functions, and calls for additional 
investigators to oversee those contracts that are outsourced.

Finally, in addition to critical spending for our national defense, 
this package contains key items to help Americans during our economic 
downturn. H.R. 3326 will extend expanded unemployment benefits, health 
insurance for unemployed workers, and enhancements for small business 
loans. It will delay cuts to Medicare physician payment extensions, and 
help meet the growing demand for nutrition assistance for low- and 
middle-income Americans.
