# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `7ccc088b585585a367df86dfad913377`
`Mr. SHUSTER — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, for the past 2 months, myself and others 
have been coming to the floor to talk about the impending tax increase 
that we face in this country if the majority doesn't act in something 
just under 1,400 days, and we will see this huge tax increase and all 
the majority has to do is run out the clock. They have to do nothing to 
see this tax increase be put back in place when the tax cuts that we 
passed in early 2001, 2002, 2003 will expire.

But tonight we are coming to the floor, and we think it is fitting to 
talk about the fourth anniversary of Iraq and what is happening in Iraq 
and, most importantly, what is going to happen on this House floor we 
think this week but maybe not until next week.

It was fitting tonight that we had a moment of silence for our men 
and women in harm's way. It was very fitting. But it is also fitting 
that the United States Congress is very clear to the men and women in 
harm's way that we support them. And we don't just support them in 
standing up on the House floor talking about it, but we support them in 
a concrete way, and that is making sure that they are getting the funds 
that they need, making sure that the United States Congress is sending 
a message to our enemies around the world that we are behind them; that 
we are not going to shortchange them; that we are not going to pull the 
rug out from under them; that we are not going to put a time line in 
place that is going to allow our enemies to know when and what we are 
going to do, we let our enemies know that they just have to run out the 
clock.

And if they run out the clock, that we are going to be gone and they 
are going to be able to be back in Iraq, they are going to be back in 
other places around this world doing harm to many people, including 
Americans. So it is absolutely important that our men and women know, 
and this supplemental is going to be the key. It is going to be the key 
for our men and women to know that we are behind them. And what the 
majority party is putting forth, at least we think what the majority 
party is putting forward, has created a confusing and inflexible 
timetable for the Americans' withdrawal from Iraq.

From what they have said, and we only know in press accounts and I 
will read many of those press accounts, and I would encourage you to go 
to www.gop.gov and see last week's press conference with the leadership 
of the majority party, the Democratic leadership talk about their plan, 
and just watch it for about a minute and you will see just how 
confusing it was to not only the American people but to the leadership 
of the majority party.

As I said, they have put in place timetables for withdrawal, with 
forces leaving as early as July 1 and concluding their removal no later 
than August 2008. Now, we can talk and talk and talk, but our enemies 
see that, and they will just go back into the shadows and they will 
just wait until we are gone to be able to wreak havoc on Iraq and the 
Iraqi people.

An example of what is in the supplemental, at least that is what we 
have heard, we are not sure but this is what we have heard: that none 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any 
other act may be used to deploy any unit of the Armed Forces to Iraq 
unless the chief of the military department concerned has certified in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations and on Armed Services at 
least 15 days in advance of deployment that this unit is fully mission 
capable.

Now, if that is not micromanagement, I don't know what is. I think 
the lessons of Vietnam have been lost on the majority party. That is 
micromanaging the war. That is what caused us great detriment in 
Vietnam.

The next thing is: the President certifies in writing to the 
Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Armed Services that 
the deployment to Iraq of a unit that is not assessed fully mission 
capable, he is required to fill a report detailing the particular 
reason or reasons why that unit's deployment is necessary. If that is 
not micromanagement, I don't know what is.



We have one Commander in Chief, clearly stated in the Constitution, 
not 535 commanders looking to micromanage a war. This requirement ties 
the hands of the President in committing more troops to fighting 
required by red tape and lengthy explanations, cost of time, and the 
risk of lives. That is micromanaging the war. I think it is very, very 
clear. And, again, I would urge anybody that is interested to go to the 
Web site and see the Democratic House leadership's press conference 
last week, and you will see just how clearly they are confused.

So how can the American people not be confused? How can our men and 
women in harm's way not be confused about what this Congress, what this 
House is about to do?

Just a couple of press accounts talking about the supplemental. The 
Washington Post, The Washington Post described the Democrat plan as: an 
attempt to impose detailed management on a war without regard to the 
war itself. Micromanagement. The Los Angeles Times. The Los Angeles 
Times called for the bill to be vetoed. Imagine that. And I quote the 
Los Angeles Times saying this, not me: It is absurd for the House 
Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, Democrat, San Francisco, to try to micromanage 
the conflict and the evolution of Iraqi society with arbitrary 
timetables and benchmarks. The Los Angeles Times is saying that; it is 
not the Washington Times. If it were the Washington Times, my friends 
on the other side of the aisle would say that is a conservative paper. 
But it is the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post saying this.

Now, my friends on the other side like to talk about the Iraqi Study 
Group, and the bipartisan Iraqi Study Group did not advocate, I repeat, 
did not advocate a firm timetable for withdrawal in its December 2006 
report, because those folks knew that it was a bad idea to give our 
enemies a time certain as to when we would be out of Iraq.

The National Intelligence Estimate released in January warned of the 
perils of an early troop withdrawal. And it said: If Coalition forces 
were withdrawn rapidly during the term of this estimate, we judge that 
this almost certainly would lead to a significant increase in the scale 
and scope of sectarian conflict in Iraq. More death, more destruction.

Now, you can't have it both ways. You can't stand up and quote the 
Iraqi Study Group and the National Intelligence Estimate and pick out 
bits and pieces of it. There are certainly things in there that they 
said that we all need to pay attention to, but these are extremely 
important statements that were made.

I am sure I can go on and on quoting newspapers around this country 
that say similar things that The Washington Post and the Los Angeles 
Times are saying. And, again, I want to remind people what the Los 
Angeles Times said: It is absurd for the House Speaker to try to 
micromanage the conflict and the evolution of Iraqi society with 
arbitrary timetables and benchmarks. It is absurd for us to give our 
enemies a timetable for them to know when to lay back so they can 
regroup and wait until we leave, so that they can go back into the 
country of Iraq, set up bases, and wreak havoc on the people of Iraq.

The other thing about this supplemental that is distasteful to me and 
I believe others on the other side is that they have loaded this 
supplemental with spending. They have used our troops as a bargaining 
chip to increase domestic spending. Now, our troops deserve better than 
that, not to be used as a bargaining chip. This is a supplemental. This 
is for emergency spending, this is for the war, this is for something 
that our troops need. And I hope that those on the other side that have 
talked on the this floor night after night about irresponsible domestic 
spending, that they won't stand for it to be put in a supplemental that 
is to be used for emergency spending on this war.

Republicans rejected last year $14 billion of domestic spending not 
related to the war. We had a clean supplemental. And I hope my friends 
on the other side will reassess what they are about to do and use this 
supplemental, use our men and women in harm's way as a bargain chip.