# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `7ce270437c66ed3cc5d86617267f2602`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Not only do they know, but the President, as we 
speak, is negotiating, or his representatives are negotiating a status 
of forces agreement to keep our troops in Iraq for some unknown time. 
So they obviously are planning on it. They're just not putting it in 
the budget.

And I agree with you that the first year you could call it an 
emergency, but after that, this should be on budget. We're building up 
enough debt that we're passing on to our children and


grandchildren with interest anyway, and in order for the public to know 
what is really being done in their name, this should not be a 
supplemental; this should be in the budget.

I would also like to comment about my trip to Iraq last October. When 
I slept in the Green Zone in one of Saddam's pool houses next to one of 
his mansions, which, by the way, I think we should give back to the 
Iraqi people at this point. He was a tyrant, but he was their tyrant, 
and he built the mansion with their money and it might help us lose 
that image that some of them have of us as occupiers if we gave them 
back their property.

But at any rate, when I slept in the Green Zone, we were told, use 
the bottled water, don't drink the water out of the tap; if you hear a 
siren, there's a concrete bunker over there; go jump in it because 
we've had a few mortar rounds coming in. But that was basically all the 
warning we got.

Last week when the fighting was going at a higher level of intensity 
when the battle of Basra was on and the Green Zone took so many mortar 
and rocket rounds that we lost two soldiers dead and 17 wounded in the 
Green Zone, they were telling people then and since then to sleep in 
your body armor and your helmet. So October, we were not told that. 
Last week and the week before, they were telling our diplomats and our 
traveling Members of Congress that. That's not progress; that's back-
sliding.

And Albert Einstein, I think, was the guy who once defined insanity 
as trying the same thing over and over again expecting a different 
result. That's where we're at now.

There's a friend of mine who's a sheriff in one of the Upstate 
counties of New York who is a West Point graduate and a classmate of my 
brother-in-law, 1969 West Point grad, who told me a couple years back 
that one of the first things they learned at West Point in officer 
training class is never send a military force to do a job that is not 
militarily achievable.

And this is to say nothing critical or to overshadow the 
accomplishments of our forces. Our men and women in uniform have done 
an extraordinary job and we should all be extremely proud of them. They 
have been creative. They have been extremely loyal not just to our 
country but loyal to each other. They have been energetic and 
committed. They will do anything we ask of them and anything their 
commanders ask of them.

But our responsibility as a civilian government, the kind of 
government that our Constitution sets up where the civilian government 
and the President, ultimately, is Commander in Chief, but Congress as 
well has the right to not only declare war but also to fund Armies. And 
we need to be careful that we use them responsibly. These are not 
chattel. Our men and women in uniform are human beings that are 
stressed out with record rates right now of suicide, divorce, and 
bankruptcy among veterans that have returned from this war, as well as 
among veterans of previous conflicts.

And I think that it's time for us to reevaluate whether this is 
really making our Nation more secure and whether it is worth the $12 
billion for nation building that we might better use for rebuilding the 
Nation of the United States.