# HONORING HM2 (FMF) ANTHONY MARK FEJERAN CARBULLIDO, U.S. NAVY
## `7cf78c88c61aaf893c662c5b5141f63c`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 8 September 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of 
Hospital Corpsman Petty Officer 2nd Class Anthony M. Carbullido, United 
States Navy. He was assigned to the Naval Hospital Corps School in 
Great Lakes, Illinois, where he volunteered for his second assignment 
as a combat medic in July 2007, stationed in Herat, Afghanistan. HM2, 
FMF, Carbullido died on August 8, in Sangatesh, Afghanistan, from 
injuries sustained when his convoy vehicle hit an improvised explosive 
device.

Anthony Carbullido was born on August 25, 1982, and grew up in Agat, 
Guam. He attended Southern High School and graduated with the class of 
2000. After graduation, Tony answered the call to duty and enlisted in 
the United States Navy on September 28. He reported to Recruit Training 
Command, Great Lakes, Illinois, on November 1, 2000, and afterwards he 
reported to the Naval Hospital Corps School where he completed training 
on June 8, 2001. HM2 Carbullido's first duty station was at the Naval 
Medical Center, San Diego, California. He received additional training 
at the Fleet Medical Service School at Camp Pendleton, California, and 
was later assigned to the 1st Marine Logistic Group, Marine Forces 
Pacific where he deployed with the Marines to Iraq on a 7-month tour. 
Upon earning his instructor qualification, he was assigned to Naval 
Hospital Corps School as an instructor at Great Lakes. It was during 
this tour at Great Lakes that HM2 Carbullido volunteered for a second 
deployment and was assigned to augment the United States Army at the 
Afghan Regional Security Integration Command West in Herat, 
Afghanistan. He provided training and medical assistance to United 
States and Afghan forces and was recognized by his comrades as a 
professional and compassionate corpsman. He received many awards and 
commendations, most notably the Bronze Star for Valor and the Purple 
Heart.

On behalf of the people of Guam, I offer my condolences to his wife 
Summer Chaney Carbullido, his daughter Lexie, his parents Anthony Jesus 
and Aurora Fejeran Carbullido, his siblings Austin Matthew and Ashley 
Maria, his grandmother Maria Sablan Fejeran, and to his extended family 
and friends. He will be missed dearly by his family, friends, and our 
island community. HM2 Anthony M. Carbullido died in the service of our 
Nation and we honor his patriotism and his dedication. He is a hero who 
made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom. We will always remember 
him and we will always be grateful for his service in the United States 
Navy.

God bless the Carbullido family, God bless our men and women in the 
Armed Forces, God bless Guam, and God bless our Nation, the United 
States of America.
