---
---

# None
## `7d010c6792c060a62a507d0a0430c570`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. I want to pay a special thank you, a big mahalo, to 
Mr. Scott and to the Judiciary Committee for their hard work. I am very 
grateful to the ranking members, the Republicans and Democrats. We 
cannot resolve this without seeing to it that we have a bipartisan 
approach on this.

I am particularly grateful to Senator Pat Leahy, who is the Judiciary 
Chairman in the Senate, for entrusting this bill to our care here in 
the House and allowing me to introduce it as a companion bill to the 
one that has passed in the Senate. I am very hopeful that we can get a 
vote in the Senate and move this to the President's desk.

When the wrong computer equipment arrived in Iraq, the contractor 
ordered it dumped into a mammoth burn pit and placed an order for 
replacements, rather than sending it back. The government paid for both 
the wrong computers and the replacements. The contractor collected a 
fee for each, thanks to a cost-plus contract.

Halliburton had drivers driving empty trucks between bases in Iraq, 
unnecessarily exposing the drivers to danger, because the company was 
paid by the trip, not by the amount of materiel hauled or a flat fee; 
$186 million was spent over 2 years to build 142 health care centers, 
yet only 15 have been completed and only eight are open. According to 
testimony, the contractor lacked qualified engineers, hired incompetent 
subcontractors, failed to supervise construction work, and failed to 
enforce quality control.

A large U.S. construction company was paid tens of millions of 
dollars to repair Iraq's schools. Many of the schools were never 
touched, and several that were repaired, and I say that in quotes, were 
left in shambles, one filled with unflushed sewage.

At least 10 companies with billions of dollars in contracts have 
already been forced to pay up to $300 million in penalties to resolve 
allegations of bid-rigging, fraud, gross overcharging, delivery of 
faulty military parts and environmental damage, $300 million in 
penalties. Some of these same companies have faced such allegations 
during past military operations in other countries, but have had no 
problem receiving new contracts in Iraq.

Despite millions of dollars in payments to U.S. companies, key pieces 
of Iraq's infrastructure, power plants, telephone exchanges, sewage and 
sanitation systems, have either not been repaired or have been fixed so 
poorly that they still don't function.

How has this been allowed to happen? The United States Government 
directly and through the late Coalition Provisional Authority have 
outsourced the war in Iraq like no other in our history, spending more 
than $50 billion on private contractors to provide food, water, 
gasoline and other supplies, guard bases, drive trucks, and many other 
activities in support of our troops.

But consistent with the administration's overall attitude toward 
spending public money with private companies, little or no thought was 
given to contract oversight or accountability. As a result, some of 
these contractors have declared the U.S. occupation of Iraq open season 
on the taxpayer. Cleaning up this mess has been hampered by the fact 
that while anti-fraud laws protect against the waste or theft of U.S. 
taxpayers in the United States, there have been no statutes prohibiting 
sleazy business practices by American companies overseas.

As we have learned in the investigation of the Blackwater USA 
contract, the Coalition Provisional Authority issued order number 17, 
which specifically exempted U.S. contractors from Iraqi law.

In fact, one contractor was found guilty of 37 counts of fraud, 
including false billing, and was ordered to pay more than $10 million 
in damages, but the decision was overturned because the contracts were 
let through the Coalition Provisional Authority, and it was found that 
U.S. laws against fraud did not apply.

Despite the fact that the Coalition Provisional Authority was created 
by the Bush administration under the Department of Defense; despite the 
fact


that L. Paul Bremer, the overseer in Iraq, subsequent to the initial 
attack on Iraq, had an office literally across the hall from Secretary 
Rumsfeld, the Coalition Provisional Authority was not considered part 
of the U.S. Government, and, therefore, U.S. laws were unenforceable.

These practices are a flagrant abuse of the public's trust and the 
public's money during a time of war and cannot be allowed to continue. 
H.R. 400, the War Profiteering Prevention Act of 2007, will, one, 
criminalize war profiteering defined as contract fraud or overcharging 
for goods and services in connection with the mission of the United 
States Government overseas; two, violations of law will be a felony and 
punishable up to 20 years in prison and fines up to $1 million or twice 
the illegal profits of the crime; three, jurisdiction for such cases, 
no matter where the alleged crimes are committed, will be in the United 
States Federal court.

H.R. 400 was heard and considered by the House Judiciary Subcommittee 
on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and ordered reported to the 
full Judiciary Committee by a voice vote on August 1. Among the many 
significant consequences of the decision to invade and occupy Iraq 
marked by a complete dismissal of the need for intelligent planning and 
stunning incompetence in the conduct of the war, this problem has 
received too little attention from the news media, the public, and the 
Congress.



Most of the cases of fraud, questionable business practices and 
outright corruption have been uncovered and investigated through the 
efforts of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, Mr. 
Stuart Bowen, Jr. Mr. Bowen and his super staff both here in the U.S. 
and on the ground in Iraq have provided oversight and insight under the 
most difficult conditions imaginable for billions of American taxpayer 
dollars intended to rebuild Iraq and support our troops in combat. They 
deserve our gratitude. They deserve the gratitude of the Congress and 
the Nation for a tough job well done.

Mr. Speaker, this bill, together with H.R. 2740, legislation passed 
by this House last week to expand the reach of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice to private civilian security operatives in the region 
are two important steps this Congress is taking to clean up the mess in 
Iraq.

H.R. 400, in conclusion, Mr. Speaker, the War Profiteering Prevention 
Act will help end the open season declared on American taxpayers.