# None
## `7d1b8263441257ab5d3467da680ea305`
`Mr. TIERNEY — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. TIERNEY. Mr. Speaker, the fundamental issue before us on this 
resolution is whether or not this institution, the Congress, is going 
to absolutely carry out its oversight responsibilities and demand that 
the executive branch provide to us materials we need to make reasonable 
determinations as to whether or not there is an extent of corruption in 
Iraq with respect to what is going on there, but also whether or


not our State Department and other agencies are doing all they should 
do to build up the capacity of the Iraqi Government to be able to 
combat corruption.

In December 2006, and again in July of 2007, the United States 
Embassy in Iraq produced two reports that weighed on those issues, 
corruption in the Iraqi Government, and would have shown us some 
capacity of whether or not the United States was doing enough about it. 
They were marked ''sensitive but unclassified.'' And they were widely 
distributed within the United States Government and they were even 
posted on the Internet.

In September, the Oversight Committee requested copies of those two 
documents. But rather than provide them in their unclassified form, the 
State Department decided to retroactively classify them, in essence, 
keeping them from public view or from public debate.

The State Department classified these documents only after the 
committee requested that they be produced. And they gave this task to 
an official who told the committee he had never in his life been 
requested to review for classification before.

Incredibly, the State Department then retroactively also classified 
key portions of a Government Accountability Office report that was 
issued to the Oversight Committee at a public hearing on October 4. 
Now, David Walker, the Comptroller General, testified in open session 
that this Government Accountability Office report addressed corruption 
in Iraq and the failure of the United States agencies to properly 
support capacity-building efforts in Iraqi ministries. This is not 
about just deciding how much corruption there was in playing that. It's 
about deciding whether or not there had been sufficient capacity-
building efforts in Iraq ministries to prevent corruption.

Mr. Walker issued the report, copies were handed out to the press, 
and it was posted on the Internet. But after the hearing, the State 
Department classified those portions of the report that addressed 
Iraq's commitment or a lack of commitment to fighting corruption. And 
yesterday, the State Department claimed in a letter to Congress that 
they classified the Government Accountability Office report prior to 
official publication, but, in fact, when we checked with the Government 
Accountability Office, they said that was not true. The State 
Department reviewed this report before it was released. They confirmed 
that it contained no classified information. It was not until after the 
report was released at the public hearing that the State Department 
retroactively classified it.

Secretary Rice may not want the public to know what the Government 
Accountability Office found when it investigated whether the Maliki 
government is committed to fighting corruption, or they may not want 
the public to know whether or not the government is actually working 
hard enough to build the necessary capacity to stop and check 
corruption in Iraq. But it's a gross abuse of the administration's 
powers to retroactively classify these findings and the findings of the 
State Department's own embassy officials and to do it retroactively.

Classification cannot be allowed to happen primarily because people 
think they're going to be embarrassed, whatever government may be 
embarrassed. Congress has to exercise its prerogative here and do the 
proper oversight for the protection of our troops and of the public's 
interests.

Testimony was that some $18 billion in corruption was occurring in 
Iraq, and that was without going into the oil ministry, where 
significant further corruption was believed to happen. Testimony was 
that monies from that corruption were going to fund militias, who in 
turn were placing their focus on targeting United States troops.

It is imperative that this Congress investigate whether or not, 
through review of these documents and other sources, we are making 
enough efforts to build the capacity in Iraq to make sure that that 
corruption stops and that our troops, our men and women in service, are 
not being targeted through corruption.

Mr. Speaker, this is an important matter. This is the prerogative of 
this House. This should not be about partisan politics or protecting 
the home team. This should be about making sure that we protect our 
troops and the public interest.