---
---

# TRIBUTE TO A GREAT COMPOSER, IRVING BURGIE
## `7d2473563c300e9958ab78c88238ef32`
`Mr. RANGEL — 23 June 2008`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the amazing 
accomplishments of one of America's greatest composers, Irving Burgie; 
and to enter into the Record an appreciation by Tony Best from New York 
CaribNews for the week ending June 3, 2008, titled ''Hailed Irving 
Burgie with Honorary Doctorate, Tribute to Composer of Some of the 
World's Most Memorable Music.''

Mr. Burgie is most known for his work with Harry Belafonte for whom 
he composed 34 songs between 1955 and 1960. He composed 8 of the 11 
songs on Belafonte's Calypso album, which was number 1 on the Billboard 
Charts for 32 weeks and remained on the charts for nearly 2 years. 
''Calypso'' was the first album of any kind to sell over a million 
copies, thus making Burgie and Belafonte one of the most successful 
singer-writer collaborations in recorded music history.

Growing up in the West Indian section of Brooklyn, Mr. Burgie became 
interested in music of other cultures in his travels as a soldier in 
World War II. He enrolled in the Julliard School of Music, developing a 
broad knowledge of song literature. His songs not only changed the 
culture of music but changed the way people taught their children about 
music. The article describes his music, as music ''that brings hope and 
puts smiles on faces of people across the globe.'' Mr. Burgie has left 
a lasting mark on music for many generations.

In addition to his outstanding musical career achievements, Mr. 
Burgie has been very generous in his philanthropic efforts to improve 
the lives of students interested in pursuing a career in music. Mr. 
Burgie has dedicated his life to making the world a better place 
through his artistic and charitable efforts and he is truly deserving 
of the honorary doctorate presented to him by St. John's University.










 [From the Caribnews, June 3, 2008]








Irving Burgie Hailed With Honorary Doctorate















 (By Tony Best)




 ''Concrete examples of committed lives.''



 The Rev. John Kettleberger, St. John's University's 


 Director of Residence Ministry was describing two outstanding 


 public figures in the United States, Irving Burgie, composer 


 of some of the world's most memorable music and Sister 


 Anthony Barczykowski, Executive Director of Community Service 


 for the Catholic Church's Archdiocese of New Orleans.



 Both the composer, an artiste with strong Brooklyn and 


 Caribbean roots, and Sister Barczykowski, whose work in New 


 Orleans after the Hurricane Katrina disaster ''brought hope'' 


 to the survivors of the floods and gale force winds that left 


 thousands homeless were hailed before an audience of at least 


 10,000 students, faculty, parents, relatives and friends of 


 the 2008 graduating class.



 Each was presented with honorary doctorates of Humane 


 Letters and they were praised for their ''commitment to 


 service'' to others and for the way they channeled their 


 energies and outstanding talents for the good of humanity.



 Actually, the Rev. Kettleberger spoke about the two 


 honorees as he delivered the invocation at the beginning of 


 the 138th commencement exercises at one of America's leading 


 Catholic schools of higher learning. With almost 3,000 


 students graduating with Bachelor's, Master's and doctorates, 


 the afternoon of pomp, ceremony and stirring commencement 


 addresses by the Rev. Dr. Donald Harrington, St. John's 


 President, and Whitney Coleman, a graduating senior of the 


 College of Liberal Arts and Science, who spoke on behalf of 


 all the students, was underscored by the smiling faces and 


 tears of joy that flowed freely as proud parents and some of 


 the students themselves were affected by the emotions of the 


 moment. ''It was truly an emotional moment for me,'' Burgie 


 said afterwards as he reflected on the tears he shed on being 


 lauded and presented the doctorate from the University's 


 President. ''I was thinking of my wife who died recently, 


 about the pleasure she would have enjoyed if she were present 


 on this occasion,'' he said.



 ''But it was also emotional to have my sons, their wives 


 and a granddaughter to share this honor with me,''



 Burgie, who had previously received an honorary doctorate 


 from the University of the West Indies, was described by Dr. 


 Julia Upton, Provost of St. John's, as a ''man who used his 


 special gifts to lift the hearts'' and the ''spirits'' of 


 tens of millions of people around the world.



 As she explained it, Burgie, the son of a West Indian 


 mother used his music to ''bring hope'' and put ''smiles'' on 


 the faces of people across the globe, often at times of great 


 challenges. Indeed, few artistes anywhere had enhanced the 


 national and global landscapes with their music like Burgie, 


 whose songs, among them ''Day-O,'' ''Island in the Sun,'' 


 ''Mary's Boy-Child,'' and ''Angelina,'' were made famous by 


 Harry Belafonte, Dr. Upton said. They sold more than 100 


 millions in the 50-plus years since they first came onto the 


 musical scene in the 1950s. Most of the songs on the Harry 


 Belafonte album, Calypso, propelled the collection to the top 


 spot on the Billboard Charts and enabled it to become the 


 first album in the history of recorded music to sell a 


 million copies. But he wasn't simply recognized for his 


 artistic triumphs. Burgie, who was recently inducted into the 


 Song writers Hall of Fame in the United States was heralded 


 for the more than $100,000 in scholarships he gave over 25 


 years to Bajan youth to encourage their writing skills and 


 the musical scholarship endowed by ASCAP to help American 


 students pursue their musical careers.



 In essence, then, both Sister Anthony and Burgie had 


 devoted their lives to the task of making the world a better 


 place and proof of their success can be seen in the hope they 


 had inspired in successive generations, St. John's University 


 stated.



 The emphasis on ''hope'' was at the core of the President's 


 commencement address. He pinpointed many of the serious 


 challenges the world was facing and they ranged from the 


 global economic downturn; starvation in Africa; and the 


 global food crisis to the divisive presidential campaign in 


 the United States; and the devastating wars in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan which have cost more than 4,000 Americans and 


 trillions of dollars in U.S. and British taxpayer money.



 But he wasn't disheartened by the monumental task at hand.



 Indeed, the President said he was ''optimistic'' because of 


 the many, ''wonderful people'' who had worked hard to 


 transform society, Burgie and Sister Anthony included, and 


 because of the young people, especially the members of the 


 graduating class who were prepared to assume their roles in 


 society.



 Coleman, the Black student who spoke for the entire class, 


 emphasized the importance of ''giving back'' and the need for 


 individuals and society to ''re-fuel'' when their tanks were 


 running low. Just as important was the need to put the 


 ''exemplary education'' the students had received at St. 


 John's to produce. It was, she asserted, a kind of 


 ''roadmap'' that would guide them at the beginning of life's 


 journey and would help them along the way. At the end of the 


 ceremonies, Burgie who was born and grew up in Brooklyn but 


 whose music has made him a world citizen summed up the 


 situation: ''It was simply wonderful. I thank St. John's for 


 the honor.''



