---
---

# IN HONOR OF COMMANDER JOHN A. HAYES
## `7d32c416f26161c5c9a67c7e8f7db8a9`
`Mr. KIRK — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. KIRK. Madam Speaker, Commander John A. Hayes relinquishes command 
of Electronic Attack Squadron Two Zero Nine on April 14, 2007 and 
leaves behind a legacy of honor, courage, and personal contributions to 
his shipmates and our Nation.

Commander Hayes was raised in Avon, New York, and entered military 
service in 1986 from the University of Notre Dame Reserve Officer 
Training Corps. He was detailed to flight training and received his 
designation as a Naval Aviator in November 1988.

He reported to Attack Squadron Forty Two (VA-42) for fleet 
replacement training in the A-6E Intruder, and upon completion was 
ordered to Attack Squadron Thirty Five (VA-35) assigned to Carrier Air 
Wing Seventeen onboard USS Saratoga (CV-60). Commander Hayes deployed 
to the Red Sea in August of 1990 in support of Operations Desert Shield 
and Desert Storm, completing an 8-month deployment and flying 30 combat 
sorties.

In 1996, Commander Hayes was selected for affiliation with Electronic 
Attack Squadron Two Zero Nine (VAQ-209) assigned to Carrier Air Wing 
Reserve Twenty. While assigned to VAQ-209, he has deployed three times 
to Incirlik Air Base, Turkey, in support of Operation Northern Watch, 
to Prince Sultan Air Base, Saudi Arabia in support of Operation 
Southern Watch, to Aviano Air Base, Italy for


Operation Allied Force, and has completed numerous other land and sea-
based detachments.

Commander Hayes assumed command of VAQ-209 in October 2005. During 
his command tour, he led the Star Warriors on a 3-month combat 
deployment to Al Asad Air Base, Iraq for operations in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. Under his leadership, the squadron also earned 
the 2005 Department of Defense Family Readiness Award and the 2006 Noel 
Davis Battle Efficiency Award, and received the 2006 Commander, Naval 
Air Force Reserve nomination for the Secretary of Defense Maintenance 
Excellence Phoenix Award.

Commander Hayes received numerous military decorations and awards. 
They include the Air Medal with Combat ''V,'' the Strike/Flight Air 
Medal (8), the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with Combat 
''V'' (2), the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal (4), and various 
campaign medals and unit awards.

On a personal note, it is my honor to have served with ''Woody''--his 
call sign. I have deployed with him many times, including to Operation 
Allied Force, which ended the nightmare in Kosovo, to Operation 
Northern Watch which enforced U.N. mandated No Fly Zones over Saddam 
Hussein's Iraq, and many other smaller detachments. I have flown with 
him. Professionalism and consummate skill are the hallmarks of this 
Naval Aviator in combat. Courage and inspired leadership are those of 
this naval officer in command.
