# None
## `7d383eebcb3f7bcb94f38ed500386acb`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, last week, the Senate adopted a historic 
amendment offered by Senators Webb, McCaskill, and others, to establish 
an independent commission to review the many problems with fraud, 
waste, and abuse that have arisen in Iraq relative to contracting and 
to give us recommendations on how we can avoid similar problems in the 
future. I wish to commend the Senators that were involved in this 
effort for the leadership they showed in drafting this amendment and 
getting it adopted by the Senate.

The Department of Defense faces huge problems in its acquisition 
system today. Over the last few years, we have seen an alarming lack of 
acquisition planning across the Department; the excessive use of 
contracts that make open-ended commitments of DOD funds; and a 
pervasive failure to perform contract oversight and management 
functions necessary to protect taxpayers' interest. These problems have 
been particularly acute in Iraq and Afghanistan, but they are in no way 
limited to Iraq and Afghanistan.

The contracting commission established pursuant to the Webb-McCaskill 
amendment should help us identify the sources of these problems and 
provide us with constructive recommendations to avoid similar problems 
in the future.

In addition to the commission language adopted last week, there are 
significant acquisition reform measures already in this bill, as it 
came to the floor, that will make improvements in the DOD acquisition 
system and to wartime contracting. Taken together, these provisions 
will make the bill that is now before the Senate, by far, the most 
significant acquisition reform measure to be considered by Congress 
since the enactment of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act and the 
Federal Acquisition Reform Act more than 10 years ago.

For example, section 821 of the bill would require increased 
competition in large ''umbrella contracts'' awarded by the Department 
of Defense. The Senate Armed Services Committee held a hearing in April 
on the Department of Defense management of the $20 billion so-called 
LOGCAP contract, under which a company called KBR--until recently, a 
subsidiary of Halliburton--has provided services to U.S. troops in the 
field.

Here are some of the things we learned in our hearing:

The company was given work that appears to have far exceeded the 
scope of the contract; all of this added work was provided to the 
contractor without competition; the contractor resisted providing us 
with information that we needed to monitor and control costs; there 
were almost $2 billion of overcharges on the contract; and the 
contractor received highly favorable settlements on these overcharges.

When asked why the Army had waited 5 years to split the massive 
LOGCAP contract among multiple contractors, allowing for greater 
competition of the work to be performed under the contract, the 
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics gave the following answer: ''I don't have a good answer for 
you.''

The provision in our bill would avoid the kind of abuses we get in 
sole-source contracts by ensuring that future contracts of this type 
provide for the competition of task and delivery orders unless there is 
a compelling reason not to do so. If our language stays intact, we 
should never again see the kind of abuses which existed with the 
Halliburton-KBR umbrella contracts.

Similarly, section 871 of the bill would require tighter regulation 
and control over private security contractors operating in areas of 
combat operations. Over the last 4 years, there has been a number of 
reports of abuses by private security contractors operating in Iraq. 
There have been allegations, even films, of contractors shooting 
recklessly at civilians as they drive down the streets of Baghdad and 
other Iraqi cities. Some of these contractors work for the Department 
of Defense, but many others work for other Federal agencies or for 
contractors of other Federal agencies.

Most recently, the Iraqi Government has complained about an incident 
in which employees of Blackwater allegedly opened fire on innocent 
Iraqis in downtown Baghdad. According to published reports, Blackwater 
employees shot into a crush of cars, killing at least 11 Iraqis and 
wounding 12. Blackwater officials insist their guards were ambushed, 
but witnesses described this shooting as unprovoked, and Iraq's 
Interior Ministry has concluded that Blackwater was at fault.

Last week, the Washington Post reported that senior military 
officials are deeply concerned about this shootout and other similar 
incidents which could undermine our efforts to combat terrorists and 
insurgents in Iraq. This is what the Washington Post article reported:




 ''The military is very sensitive to its relationship that 


 they've built with the Iraqis being altered or even severely 


 degraded by actions such as this event''. . . .



 ''This is a nightmare,'' said a senior U.S. military 


 official. ''We had guys who saw the aftermath, and it was 


 very bad. This is going to hurt us badly. It may be worse 


 than Abu Ghraib, and it comes at a time when we're trying to 


 have an impact for the long term''. . . .



 In interviews involving a dozen U.S. military and 


 government officials, many expressed . . . concern over the 


 shootings. . . .



 ''This is a big mess that I don't think anyone has their 


 hands around yet,'' said another U.S. military official. 


 ''It's not necessarily a bad thing these guys are being held 


 accountable. Iraqis hate them, the troops don't particularly 


 care for them, and they tend to have a know-it-all attitude, 


 which means they rarely listen to anyone--even the folks that 


 patrol the ground on a daily basis.''



 ''Their tendency is shoot first and ask questions later,'' 


 said an Army lieutenant colonel serving in Iraq. Referring to 


 the September 16 shootings, the officer added, ''None of us 


 believe they were engaged, but we are all carrying their 


 black eyes.''



 ''Many of my peers think Blackwater is oftentimes out of 


 control,'' said a senior U.S. commander serving in Iraq. 


 ''They often act like cowboys over here . . . not seeming to 


 play by the same rules everybody else tries to play by.''


The provision in our bill would address this problem by ensuring that 
the Department of Defense and its combatant commanders are in a 
position to regulate the conduct of all armed contractors in the battle 
space, regardless of whether they are employed under contracts of the 
Department of Defense or other Federal agencies. Under the provision in 
our bill, private security contractors employed by any Federal agency 
or any contractor or subcontractor for a Federal agency would be


required for the first time to comply with DOD rules on the use of 
force and with orders, directions, and instructions issued by combatant 
commanders relating to force protection, security, health, safety, or 
relations and interaction with local nationals.

Other provisions in our bill would provide added protection for 
contractor employees who blow the whistle on fraud, waste, and abuse. 
They would require the DOD to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the 
billions of dollars it spends every year to purchase contract services. 
Our bill will tighten rules for the acquisition of major weapons 
systems; ensure that we get fair prices when we purchase spare parts 
for those weapons systems; enhance competition requirements for 
products purchased from Federal prison industries; and address abuses 
of undefinitized contract actions.

The root cause of these and all the other problems that we read and 
hear so much about, or at least most of the other problems, in the 
defense acquisition system is our failure to maintain an acquisition 
workforce with the resources and skills that are needed to manage the 
Department's acquisition system.

Earlier this year, the Acquisition Advisory Panel, chartered pursuant 
to the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2004, 
reported that ''curtailed investments in human capital have produced an 
acquisition workforce that often lacks the training and resources to 
function effectively.'' And they went on:




 The Federal Government does not have the capacity in its 


 current acquisition workforce necessary to meet the demands 


 that have been placed on it.


The failure of Department of Defense and other Federal agencies to 
adequately fund the acquisition workforce, the panel concluded, is '' 
'penny-wise and pound-foolish,' as it seriously undermines the pursuit 
of the good value for the expenditure of public resources.''

Senior DOD officials have recognized the deficiencies in the defense 
acquisition workforce, but they have been unable to obtain significant 
funds that are needed to remedy the problem. Section 844 of our bill 
will address this issue by establishing an acquisition workforce 
development fund to enable the Department of Defense to increase the 
size and quality of its acquisition workforce. In the first year, we 
will provide roughly $500 million for this purpose. It is a large sum 
of money, but it is a small investment to ensure the proper expenditure 
of more than $200 billion of taxpayers' money every year.

We look forward to working with the House conferees after we pass our 
bill, hopefully this evening, to make these important provisions on 
acquisition reform and the acquisition workforce the law of the land.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.