# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `7d3c9f4427f7ef2d008ba70b7629de8c`
`Mr. LYNCH â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Madam Chair, I want to, first of all, thank the gentleman 
for yielding.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 1362, the Accountability in 
Contracting Act. This is contract reform legislation that was reported 
favorably out of our Oversight Committee by unanimous consent, and I 
think that speaks to the merits of this bill. As a result of the hard 
work of Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member Davis, this is a good first 
step in bringing accountability to contracting practices in our 
government.

By minimizing the use, as others have said, of the abusive no-bid 
contract practice, we will reintroduce competition into this 
contracting protocol used by our government. As well as limiting the 
use of cost-plus contracts, we will strengthen the reporting and 
disclosure requirements for contract overcharges and increase funding 
for contract oversight personnel. H.R. 1362 will address the glaring 
weaknesses in our Federal procurement system that have caused 
considerable waste, fraud, and abuse of American taxpayer dollars.

The need to reform Federal contracting law has been with us for some 
time and demonstrated, I think, glaringly during our series of 
contracting hearings in the House Oversight Committee, as we continue 
to examine a variety of misguided and poorly managed, poorly designed, 
and extremely costly Federal contracts that have been issued.

In the area of Iraq reconstruction, where we have spent a lot of 
time, we have learned from William Reed, the Director of the DCAA, the 
Defense Contract Audit Agency, of more than $10 billion, 10 billion 
with a ''b,'' in questioned and unsupported costs related to our Iraq 
reconstruction and troop support contracts. In addition, based on 
updated data provided to the committee by DCAA, we know that 
Halliburton's three massive cost-plus contracts alone are the source of 
at least $2.7 billion in questioned and unsupported billings. And until 
recently, unfortunately, we have not had auditors on the ground in 
Iraq. The DCAA did not have contractors on the ground to review these 
contracts. They were auditing these contracts from Alexandria, 
Virginia. We have changed that process and put people on the ground.

In the area of homeland security, we recently examined the Department 
of Homeland Security's $24 billion contract to modernize the Coast 
Guard's aging fleet and the $30 billion SBInet contract to design and 
implement a modernized border security plan. Based on thousands of 
pages of documents provided by DHS to our committee, we have learned 
that the Department's oversight of these massive contracts is severely 
limited by what they call the ''prime integrator'' contracts. These 
prime integrator contracts vest the government oversight responsibility 
in program design and construction to contractors to do this very work. 
In addition, we came to find out the Department had actually contracted 
out oversight functions that it had retained under the contract terms.

This is a good first step. And I want to give great credit to 
Chairman Waxman for his good work and also Mr. Davis for building 
compromise in this, and I think that the American taxpayers will be 
better served by the result of the work of these two gentlemen.