---
---

# None
## `7d4ba5d964e0f91e134f415f0a10d128`
`Mr. REID — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this has been a long week, and it is hard to 
comprehend, but it is only Wednesday, Wednesday morning. We have now 
been in session continuously for 2 days. On Monday, I submitted a 
simple request for consent to proceed to an up-or-down vote on the 
Levin-Reed amendment to the Defense authorization bill. As I have 
stated, this amendment provides a clear, binding responsible path to 
change the U.S. mission and reduce our combat presence in Iraq. It 
honors the sacrifice of our troops, reflects the will of the American 
people, and lets us rebuild and focus our military on the growing 
threats we face throughout the world.

Regrettably, Republicans chose to block this amendment. They chose to 
block a bipartisan amendment, Mr. President, to deny the American 
people an up-or-down vote. They chose to continue protecting their 
President instead of our troops, no matter the cost to our country.



In contrast, my Democratic colleagues and a number of brave 
Republicans came to the floor of the Senate throughout the night to 
make our case. I am proud of what they have said and what they have 
done. We spent 2 days showing America that we are not going to back 
down, we are going to continue to fight, and that if President Bush and 
his allies in Congress refuse to budge, we will continue to show them 
the way.

How could we possibly shrink from this fight? How could we possibly 
try to avoid this fight? As we speak, many of our 160,000 men and women 
serving in Iraq are wrapping up another day of war, real war on foreign 
sands. For them, it was yet another day caught in an intractable civil 
war, Sunni versus Shia, Shia versus Sunni, Shia versus Shia, Sunni 
versus Sunni, and--what other combinations can we come up with--with 
our troops caught in the crossfires, our troops trying to protect the 
Shias, Sunnis, and the Kurds, and all of them after our troops.

As the Iraqi people have said in poll after poll, about 70 percent of 
them think we are doing more harm in their country than good.

The high temperature today in Iraq was about 115 degrees, and our 
troops were wearing about 100 pounds of equipment. This was the 1,583rd 
day of the war. They have served us each and every day with courage, 
despite being taken to war falsely, prematurely, and recklessly. They 
have served us each and every day with courage and valor, despite a 
President who still lacks a plan for success. They have served us each 
and every day with courage, despite too many in Congress who remain 
unwilling to change course.

Those 160,000 troops deserve more. They and all Americans deserve a 
debate and votes on legislation that will finally provide them a 
strategy to honor their great sacrifice.

As we have just seen, a bipartisan majority of the Senate supports 
Levin-Reed. A bipartisan majority of the Senate supports a binding new 
policy that would responsibly bring the war to an end so we can return 
our focus and resources to the real threats and challenges our great 
country faces. Yet a Republican minority blocked a vote on the 
bipartisan amendment that would deliver that new course, and instead 
they chose to stand behind the President and this tragic failure he has 
led.

So today I am filled with a mixture of pride and regret--pride for my 
colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, who have risen to this crucial 
cause in giving the American people the debate they deserve, yet regret 
for my colleagues who have blocked the will of the people and the 
majority of this Congress. I believe the will of the people must be 
heeded, and I believe this critical vote must proceed.

In an effort to make progress on this issue and this bill, I will, 
therefore, request unanimous consent to move to a vote on the four Iraq 
amendments to the Defense authorization bill outlined yesterday morning 
in my letter to Senator McConnell. My unanimous consent request is 
eminently fair. It would provide up-or-down, yes-or-no votes on three 
other bipartisan Iraq amendments in exchange for the same on Levin-
Reed.

Under my proposal, we would vote on these Iraq amendments: Levin-
Reed, Lugar-Warner, Salazar-Alexander, and Nelson-Collins. In addition, 
I also indicated in my letter that I am prepared to agree to up-or-down 
votes on other amendments as well.

Therefore, Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate considers the following Iraq amendments, they be subject to 
majority votes: the pending Levin-Reed amendment, the Byrd-Clinton 
deauthorization amendment, the Warner-Lugar amendment No. 2208, the 
Salazar-Alexander Iraq Study Group amendment, the Nelson-Collins 
amendment No. 2124, and Senator Landrieu's al-Qaida amendment.