# None
## `7d4eacbc73a8ff24091146f18c12d43f`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 10 June 2008`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, while the positive relationship enjoyed by the United 
States and Great Britain is certainly historic, enduring and merits 
recognition, and it merits nurturing, we should also be focusing our 
time and debating policies to address the rising energy costs that are 
facing our Nation.

Nevertheless, we have this resolution before us marking the 225th 
anniversary of the Treaty of Paris of 1783 between the United States 
and the United Kingdom. The great British Prime Minister Winston 
Churchill was the first to refer to the alliance between the United 
States and the United Kingdom as a special relationship. In a speech he 
delivered in 1946, he was right to use that term.

The American British relationship is, indeed, special, with its 
foundation lying in the common values of freedom, democracy and human 
rights. Our mutual commitments to those principles have led the United 
States and Great Britain to stand side by side on the beaches of 
Normandy, at the Berlin wall, in the mountains of Afghanistan, and in 
those the parts of Iraq where the challenges today are greatest.

The murderous terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, in America, 
and on July 7, 2005, in Britain, have bound America and Britain even 
closer together in our determination to defeat extremism.

During his recent visit to the United States, British Prime Minister 
Gordon Brown reaffirmed our strong relationship saying, ''I continue to 
stand shoulder to shoulder [with the US] in the fight where freedom and 
justice are at risk.''

By adopting the resolution before us, we will again recognize the 
history of our special relationship with Britain, a relationship that 
ironically began with the revolution of one against the other, but that 
came into its full strength because of the values and the ideals that 
our two people have continued to share.

Now, 225 years after the treaty of peace, in which Britain recognized 
the independence of the United States of America, that alliance between 
our two countries takes its guidance from the speech in 1946 in which 
Mr. Churchill noted our special relationship, and here is what he said 
then:

If there is to be a fraternal association . . . with all the extra 
strength and security which both our countries can derive from it, let 
us make sure that that great fact is known to the world, and that it 
plays its part in steadying and stabilizing the foundations of peace. 
There is the path of wisdom.

I encourage my colleagues to join supporting this resolution which 
follows Mr. Churchill's advice and lets the world know that the United 
States and the United Kingdom, indeed, have a strong and continuing 
relationship. I am not sure what Winston Churchill would say about 
today's high energy costs, but I bet that he would have a detailed plan 
to help us bring our costs down.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of our time.