---
---

# ACADEMY NOMINEES FOR 2007
## `7d4f8ad54f42f5d3400b101a10792f84`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Madam Speaker, every year, more high school 
seniors from the 11th Congressional District trade in varsity jackets 
for Navy pea coats, Air Force flight suits, and Army brass buckles than 
most other districts in the country. But this is nothing new--our area 
has repeatedly sent an above average portion of its sons and daughters 
to the nation's military academies for decades.

This fact should not come as a surprise. The educational excellence 
of area schools is well known and has long been a magnet for families 
looking for the best environment in which to raise their children. Our 
graduates are skilled not only in mathematics, science, and social 
studies, but also have solid backgrounds in sports, debate teams, and 
other extracurricular activities. This diverse upbringing makes 
military academy recruiters sit up and take note--indeed, many 
recruiters know our towns and schools by name.

Since the 1830's, Members of Congress have enjoyed meeting, talking 
with, and nominating these superb young people to our military 
academies. But how did this process evolve? In 1843, when West Point 
was the sole academy, Congress ratified the nominating process and 
became directly involved in the makeup of our military's leadership. 
This was not an act of an imperial Congress bent on controlling every 
aspect of Government. Rather, the procedure still used today was, and 
is, a further check and balance in our democracy. It was originally 
designed to weaken and divide political coloration in the officer 
corps, provide geographical balance to our armed services, and to make 
the officer corps more resilient to unfettered nepotism and handicapped 
European armies.

In 1854, Representative Gerritt Smith of New York added a new 
component to the academy nomination process--the academy review board. 
This was the first time a Member of Congress appointed prominent 
citizens from his district to screen applicants and assist with the 
serious duty of nominating candidates for academy admission. Today, I 
am honored to continue this wise tradition in my service to the 11th 
Congressional District.

The Academy Review Board is composed of six local citizens, several 
of whom are distinguished veterans, who have shown exemplary service to 
New Jersey, to their communities, and to the continued excellence of 
education in our area. Though from diverse backgrounds and professions, 
they all share a common dedication that the best qualified and 
motivated graduates attend our academies. And, as true for most 
volunteer groups, their service goes largely unnoticed.

I would like to take a moment to recognize these men and women and 
thank them publicly for participating in this important panel. Being on 
the Board requires hard work and an objective mind. Members have the 
responsibility of interviewing upwards of 50 outstanding high school 
seniors every year in the academy review process.


The nomination process follows a general timetable. High school 
seniors mail personal information directly to the Military Academy, the 
Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Merchant Marine Academy 
once they become interested in attending. Information includes academic 
achievement, college entry test scores, and other activities. At this 
time, they also inform my office of their desire to be nominated.

The academies then assess the applicants, rank them based on the data 
supplied, and return the files to my office with their notations. In 
late November, our Academy Review Board interviews all of the 
applicants over the course of two days. They assess a student's 
qualifications and analyze character, desire to serve, and other 
talents that may be hidden on paper.

This year the board interviewed 38 applicants. Nominations included 
19 to the Naval Academy, 9 to the Military Academy and 5 to the Air 
Force Academy--the Coast Guard Academy does not use the Congressional 
nomination process. The recommendations are then forwarded to the 
academies by January 31, where admissions staff reviewed files


and notified applicants and my office of their final decision on 
admittance.

As these highly motivated and talented young men and women go through 
the nominating process, never let us forget the sacrifice they are 
preparing to make: to defend our country and protect our citizens. This 
holds especially true at a time when our Nation is fighting the war 
against terrorism. Whether it is in Afghanistan, Iraq, or other hot 
spots around the world, no doubt we are constantly reminded that wars 
are fought by the young. And, while our military missions are both 
important and sometimes dangerous, it is reassuring to know that we 
continue to put America's best and brightest in command.


 Academy Nominees for 2007--11th Congressional District, New Jersey




 Air Force Academy: Greg W. Bukata, Chatham, H.S. of the 


 Chathams; David Lam, Lake Hopatcong, Jefferson H.S.; Melissa 


 L. Marcial, Parsippany, Parsippany H.S.; Scott Pierson, 


 Parsippany, Parsippany Hills H.S.; and Samantha J. Stibick, 


 Somerville, Somerville H.S.



 Military Academy: Brian C. Asman, Livingston, Livingston 


 H.S.; Alexander Boroff, Chatham, H.S. of the Chathams; Hadley 


 A. Johnson, Randolph, Pingry School; Vincent J. Lally, 


 Sparta, Sparta H.S.; Dario Marcelli, III, East Hanover, 


 Hanover Park H.S.; Alexander Z. Pytlar, Califon, West Morris 


 Central H.S.; Jason S. Rothamel, Basking Ridge, Ridge H.S.; 


 Quentin Sica, Stanhope, Lenape Valley H.S.; and Marianne R. 


 Slotten, Mendham, West Morris Mendham H.S.



 Naval Academy: Kelsey L. Bergh, Morristown, Academy of St. 


 Elizabeth; Jeffrey R. Bland, Basking Ridge, Immaculata H.S.; 


 David P. Bobo, Florham Park, Seton Hall Preparatory School; 


 Jacob O. Bridge, Stirling, Watchung Hills H.S.; Jesse S. 


 Cohen, Mountain Lakes, Mountain Lakes H.S.; Kevin A. Gaines, 


 Wharton, Morris Hills H.S.; Peter S. Garber, Short Hills, 


 Millburn H.S.; Matthew R. Gregory, Long Valley, Davidson 


 College; Ralph N. Grossmann, IV, Green Pond, Morris Knolls 


 H.S.; Andrew P. Hanko, Montville, Trinity Christian School; 


 Steven R. Kline, Chatham, H.S. of the Chathams; Andrew M. 


 Kramer, Oak Ridge, Jefferson H.S.; William J. Ludlow, Basking 


 Ridge, Ridge H.S.; Jason Mariscal, Fairfield, West Essex 


 H.S.; Nicholas A. Mikula, North Caldwell, Seton Hall 


 Preparatory School; Steven B. Monin, North Caldwell, West 


 Essex H.S.; Joseph P. Palamara, Denville, Morris Knolls H.S.; 


 Christopher K. Schneider, Mendham, Seton Hall Preparatory 


 School; and David R. Weller, Bridgewater, Bridgewater-Raritan 