---
---

# IRAN
## `7d554928787167c9d53657497c30d224`
`Ms. LEE — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Speaker, let me begin by thanking my colleague 
Congresswoman Maxine Waters, the gentlewoman from California, for 
organizing this very important special order tonight. Let me just say 
to you, Congresswoman Waters, your clear voice and your sound judgment 
as the co-founder of the Out of Iraq Caucus has helped guide this 
antiwar movement, not only here in the House of Representatives, but 
throughout the country.

Your boldness and your vision in organizing those of us who knew that 
this war was wrong from day one in putting together over, what, some 77 
members now of the Out of Iraq Caucus, I have to salute you and thank 
you for that, because we will never go back again. All we can do is go 
forward to try to end this occupation and try to prevent another 
preemptive war against Iran.

It is very timely that Congresswoman Waters has called us here 
tonight to sound the alarm on Iran. It is truly disturbing to me to 
hear many of the same drumbeats on this administration 's march to war 
with Iran as we saw 5 years ago in the run-up to the war in Iraq. So I 
want to provide just a little bit of history on Iraq to draw out some 
of these parallels, in the hope that they will provide Congress and the 
American people with a clear warning signal.

Madam Speaker, this discussion is also timely today because today is 
April 15th, and millions of Americans across our country are right now 
racing the clock to beat the tax filing deadline. Lots of them are 
asking, how much do they owe and what is the government doing with 
their money?

One answer, Madam Speaker, is that in the last 5 years, this 
administration has spent nearly a half trillion dollars on the Iraq war 
and occupation. This Iraq tax, and that is what it is, an Iraq tax, 
comes out to approximately $16,500 for every American family of four. 
Has the tax been worth it? Let's look at what we have gotten in 
exchange.

More than 4,000 of the Nation's best and bravest have been killed. 
More than 30,000 others have been wounded, many suffering permanent and 
debilitating injuries. Tens of thousands of innocent Iraqi civilians 
have died, and millions have been internally displaced or sought refuge 
in neighboring countries. Meanwhile, the occupation of


Iraq has caused serious damage to America's international reputation 
and created a generation, mind you, a generation of future enemies 
incensed by the endless occupation of their country by a foreign power.

Madam Speaker, compounding the folly of this strategic blunder, the 
$500 billion which American taxpayers already have spent on this 
occupation is now undermining our ability to finance the investments 
needed to address the pressing domestic needs of the American people 
and to revive our sagging economy. Given what the Iraq tax has brought 
American families, and this $500 billion is quickly mounting to almost 
$3 trillion very soon, is anyone really surprised that the American 
people are angry and demanding change?

The saddest aspect of this whole story and this whole episode, Madam 
Speaker, is it did not have to be that way. Along with 125 of my 
colleagues, a substantial majority of House Democrats, I opposed the 
war, like Congresswoman Waters did, from the beginning, and we voted 
against the resolution authorizing the use of military force.

I offered an amendment Congresswoman Waters supported, we got 72 
votes during that period, to the original use of force resolution to 
prohibit the administration, remember this, Congresswoman Waters, we 
tried, we tried, we did everything we could do to try to keep the 
administration from taking military action until the United Nations 
could complete their inspections and confirm that Saddam Hussein's 
regime indeed possessed weapons of mass destruction which it intended 
to use against us or to give to our sworn enemies.

Had the Lee amendment been adopted, we would have learned much sooner 
and at far less cost what the whole world knew, that evidentially we 
didn't know, but some of us knew, but the whole world now knows, 
including the American people, that Iraq did not pose an imminent 
threat to the United States, was not involved in the September 11th 
attacks, had no ties to al Qaeda and had no weapons of mass 
destruction.

The war and occupation has also exacted an awful toll on our military 
force, our structure, our readiness, and the men and women in uniform 
and their families. General Richard Cody, the Army Vice Chief of Staff, 
testified before the Congress that the Army is out of balance. The 
current demand of our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan exceeds the 
substantial supply and limits our ability to provide ready forces for 
other contingencies.

Because of this administration's mistake, tens of thousands of 
servicemen and women have been required to undertake lengthy 
deployments into the war zone, two, three, and some even four times. 
This has placed enormous strain on them and their families and 
increased their risk of struggling with mental health issues, including 
when they return home many, many post-traumatic stress issues that we 
have never seen before. Nearly 60,000 veterans of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have been diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder, and 
most experts in the field believe the numbers could be much higher.

Some may ask, why is it necessary to review this history? Well, as 
the old saying goes, those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. 
The other reason for reviewing this history is because it goes straight 
to the veracity and the credibility of this administration that brought 
us this debacle and which may be maneuvering to reprise its strategic 
and geopolitical incompetence by taking preemptive military action 
against Iran.

If you listen carefully, you can hear the same distant drumbeats of a 
coming war with Iran. The signs are very familiar. Nearly on a daily 
basis we read or hear these from the administration, and let me just 
repeat a few of these drumbeats that we hear.

They say Iran is the single greatest threat to the stability in Iraq, 
although when I asked General Petraeus last week if Iran was in Iraq 5 
years ago, he said they weren't really ''kissing cousins.'' I think 
that is what his comment was. No, Iran was not in Iraq 5 years ago.


Iran is building nuclear weapons.

Iran is killing American soldiers in Iraq, arming, training and 
funding insurgents and terrorists.

Iran is interfering with the peace process in the Middle East.

I am reminded how the administration sent General Colin Powell, do 
you remember that, Congresswoman Waters, the Secretary of State, by far 
the most effective and respective spokesman, before the United Nations 
Security Council to make the case to the world that Iraq posed an 
imminent threat to regional peace and security. The case presented by 
General Powell accomplished its mission, but its factual foundation 
rested on falsehoods, misinformation and speculation masquerading as 
evidence. To this day, General Powell regards his performance that day 
as really a mark on an otherwise distinguished career of public service 
to our Nation.

General Petraeus is the 2008 version, quite frankly, of General 
Powell. He inspires more confidence than President Bush and is far more 
credible than Vice President Cheney. But so did General Powell inspire 
and bring this credibility to this administration, and he turned out to 
be wrong; terribly wrong.

Again last week, General Petraeus testified that Iranian-backed so-
called special groups posed the greatest long-term threat to the 
viability of a Democratic Iraq. He testified that it was these groups 
that launched Iranian rockets and mortar rounds at Iraq's seat of 
government two weeks ago, causing loss of innocent life and fear in the 
capital and requiring Iraqi and coalition actions in response.

This is starting to sound like the groundwork being laid for the need 
to take defensive action against Iran. This is unacceptable. We should 
not be looking for an excuse to attack Iran. Congress should not stand 
for yet another so-called preemptive military strike, and we should 
take action to clearly prohibit any such attempt against Iran.

As I stated, we have been down this road before. We have learned a 
simple truth from five hard and bitter years in Iraq. No unjust war 
ever produced a just and lasting peace. It has not worked in Iraq. It 
will not work in Iran.

What is needed is not another rush to unwarranted, unnecessary and 
misguided military action, but rather a strong diplomatic surge for 
peace and reconciliation. And, yes, I do believe that a nuclear-armed 
Iran poses a danger. I believe we need to move forward with 
nonproliferation efforts, including looking at our own arsenal of 
nuclear weapons in our own country. Nuclear weapons should not be an 
option at this point, given the dangers of the world. So we need to 
address nuclear nonproliferation in the context of a strong diplomatic 
initiative.

One of the most important first steps we should take is to have 
direct, comprehensive and unconditional bilateral talks with Iran. To 
facilitate this goal, it is imperative for the administration to show 
that it is serious in this endeavor by appointing a special envoy. I 
think we need to appoint a special person, an individual who does 
nothing but ensure that we move forward to reduce the tensions in the 
region, and this envoy should receive the necessary support to carry 
out his or her mandate.

That is why I introduced H.R. 5056, the Iran Diplomatic 
Accountability Act of 2008. Among other things, this bill directs the 
President to appoint a high level envoy empowered to conduct direct, 
unconditional, bilateral negotiations with Iran for the purpose of 
easing tensions and normalizing relations between the United States and 
Iran. No one says this is going to be easy, but we must start 
somewhere.

The latest National Intelligence Estimate released last week 
representing the consensus view of our 16 intelligence agencies clearly 
indicates that Iran is nowhere close to having nuclear weapons 
capability. The NIE assessment underscores why it is critical for 
Congress to ensure that this administration's saber rattling against 
Iran does not turn into a march to war. We have been down this path 
before.

Madam Speaker, in conclusion, the last 5 years in Iraq demonstrates 
the folly of rushing off to start a war. We don't need another war in 
Iran. We need to end the war in Iraq and fully fund the redeployment of 
American troops so that they may be reunited with their families in the 
United States. We need to use our funds to support them, protect them, 
and bring


them home. And we need to begin to move forward to address the real 
issues with regard to Iran and begin to take the military option off of 
the table, because our President, this country always has the military 
option, and it makes no sense to use this or to talk about it if we 
truly intend to reduce tensions and look for some form of global peace 
and security.

Thank you, again, Congresswoman Waters for calling us together today.