# GENERATIONS INVIGORATING VOLUNTEERISM AND EDUCATION ACT
## `7d680bf09f7ecff4bf4fc5a6111d1a48`
`Mr. DRIEHAUS — 18 March 2009`

---


Mr. DRIEHAUS. Mr. Chairman, I stand today on the floor to also give 
my support to this important piece of legislation. Mr. Chairman, I am 
one of four Members of this House who is a former Peace Corps 
volunteer. I had the privilege of serving this country in the United 
States Peace Corps for almost 2/1/2/ years in West Africa. I can speak 
on behalf of the returning volunteers in this body and the returning 
volunteers across this country as to the importance of service, both at 
home and abroad.

This is an important step in the right direction. As we ask so many 
sons and daughters of this country to serve in our military in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, I think it is critically important that we open up doors 
of opportunity for young men and women and older men and women across 
this country to also serve right here at home. Service is critically 
important to show that they believe in this country, to show that they 
believe in their community and that they are able to give back. This is 
an important step in the right direction.

I have had the privilege in Cincinnati of working with the Public 
Allies Program, an AmeriCorps program which has contributed to 
tremendous work for nonprofit organizations across the region. This 
expands that opportunity for so many more people.

Again I applaud the President for his efforts. I applaud the First 
Lady for shining the light on service in the United States. I want to 
thank the chairman and the committee for their tremendous work.