---
---

# None
## `7d6d7f128f54220062b75dfd6b666391`
`Mr. LEVIN — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, the bill we have just adopted is the 46th 
consecutive annual Defense authorization bill that has come out of our 
committee and been brought to the Senate for debate and passage. It has 
been no secret that this is one of the largest and most complex and 
important pieces of legislation that comes before the Senate every 
year. Every year since 1961, it has been a challenge to get it passed. 
Thankfully, because of its vital importance to our Nation, we have 
always found a way to do so. This year was particularly difficult, as 
we continue to debate the war in Iraq. Today is the 19th and final day 
of debate on this bill. Only two other annual Defense authorization 
bills have required longer to pass. In 1969, the Senate debated the 
bill for 37 days. In 1970, it was debated for 28 days. History shows 
that in time of war, the Senate acts as it should and takes the 
necessary time to carefully consider this bill and its impact on our 
Nation.


We had over 400 amendments that were filed to this bill. We were able 
to work with all Senators and pass several large packages of managers' 
amendments while we were wrestling with Iraq-related amendments. All 
told, we acted on a total of 214 amendments during the bill's 
consideration.

Whenever we reach the point of final passage of legislation, we take 
a moment to thank Members and staff. To some this may seem to be a 
routine matter. It is not. All of us who make up the Senate should 
honor its customs and traditions. They are really the foundation of 
this Senate.

With that as my motivation, I want to take a moment to express my 
thanks to those who worked so hard and cooperated so well to bring us 
to final passage of this bill.

First, my thanks go to Senator McCain who is serving as our ranking 
member for the first time this year. Senator McCain's leadership and 
determination helped forge this bill through the committee and on to 
final passage.

Next, I thank and acknowledge our former chairman, Senator Warner. 
Senator Warner has made innumerable contributions to this bill. This 
bill would not be here but for the work of Senator Warner. Working 
within arm's reach of Senator Warner each year for the past 28 years 
has been truly one of the highlights of my Senate career.

He is a good friend of mine. More importantly, he is a good friend to 
national defense and to the people who depend upon it and who work for 
it in this country.

To our majority leader, Senator Reid, and his floor staff, a special 
word of thanks for giving us the time and the tools to get this bill 
through the Senate.

To all of our committee members who, again, worked on a bipartisan 
basis, we appreciate their work. We do not often take the time to 
express it. I am afraid this will kind of have to be that moment. 
People do not realize our committee has one quarter of the Senate as 
its members. We work together in the committee. Our differences on the 
bill did not divide us. We reported the bill by a unanimous vote.

To Charlie Armstrong in the Office of Senate Legislative Counsel, he 
did his work skillfully. He proved over 400 times, with those 400 
amendments, that he knows how to draft amendments.

To our committee staff members, they truly earned the thanks and 
recognition of the entire Senate for their


time and their efforts on this legislation.

I want to mention two of the members of our staff who lead our staff 
and one woman who has served on our committee staff for the past 19 
years.

To Rick DeBobes, our committee staff director, he serves us so 
brilliantly and well and so unselfishly 24/7. He is within earshot, so 
I will not embarrass him and have him blush other than to say he is so 
totally indispensable not just to me but to the Senate and all of the 
staff that work so well with him. Our gratitude.

To Senator McCain's new Republican staff director, Mike Kostiw, his 
leadership is so effective that it is quite difficult to believe this 
is Mike's first year.

To Cindy Pearson, our assistant chief clerk and security manager, a 
special word of thanks and encouragement. Cindy has been serving the 
committee for the last 19 years. She is the consummate professional in 
every aspect of her work. She is away from us right now as she 
undergoes treatment for breast cancer. We want her to know she is ever 
present in our thoughts and in our prayers. We all look forward to 
welcoming Cindy Pearson back to the committee family soon.

So Rick's and Mike's and all the other committee staff members' long 
and hard work and personal sacrifices, day in and day out, to get this 
bill enacted again this year paid off. They are the backbone of the 
Senate. They and other people who work for us in this Senate make it 
possible to turn our ideas into policies and into legislation.

I thank them all. I know I thank them for their expertise and their 
dedication on behalf of all the members of the committee. They brought 
us again through to the point of conference with the House. We are 
hopeful to bring back promptly a conference report. But in the 
meantime, thanks to them, their professionalism, and their hard work. 
We are where we are at.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a list of the entire 
Armed Services Committee staff be printed in the Record.