# TRIBUTE TO FORMER SENATOR CHARLES ``MAC'' MATHIAS
## `7d76f57c05ad58c2e145bc51d3ef9fab`
`Mr. LEVIN — 28 January 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I recently returned from a trip to 
Pakistan and Afghanistan with Senator Al Franken. We heard a great deal 
of troubling news out of Afghanistan over the past few months. 
Casualties have increased and the political situation has been 
unsettled. Based on what we saw and heard during our trip, I am 
somewhat more optimistic that we will succeed in Afghanistan. I am a 
lot more optimistic now than after my last visit to Afghanistan in 
September. Success, to me, is defined as preventing the Taliban from 
returning to power at the same time we strengthen the Afghan security 
forces to take responsibility for Afghan security in order to ensure 
stability in Afghanistan.

Over the course of 3 days, we met with key civilian and military 
leaders in both Pakistan and Afghanistan.

In Pakistan, we met with Pakistan Prime Minister Gilani; Army Chief 
of Staff Kayani; and a leader from the opposition party, Ahsan Iqbal. 
Pakistan has taken some steps to take on elements of the Pakistan 
Taliban and al-Qaida but has been for the most part unwilling to take 
on the Afghan Taliban which uses Quetta in the south of Pakistan and 
North Waziristan in Pakistan's federally administered tribal areas as 
safe havens and to attack Afghanistan.

In Afghanistan, we met with U.S. Ambassador Karl Eikenberry; GEN 
Stanley McChrystal, Commander of the NATO-led International Security 
Assistance Force, or ISAF; LTG David Rodriguez, Commander of the ISAF 
Joint Command; LTG William Caldwell, who leads the NATO Training 
Mission in Afghanistan; and British MG Nick Carter, Commander of ISAF 
forces in Regional Command South. We also met with key Afghan 
officials, in particular President Karzai, Minister of Defense Wardak; 
and Minister of the Interior Atmar. Outside Kabul, we traveled to bases 
in Kandahar province, where we met with Canadian and American ISAF 
troops who are fully embedded in a partnership, i.e., living side-by-
side with Afghan security forces.

Our men and women in uniform are performing magnificently. We visited 
with our troops in the field in Kandahar, and they are living and 
operating in a difficult environment with only basic accommodations. 
Yet their morale is high and they are eager to carry out their mission. 
And they have some of the best leadership our military has to offer in 
ISAF Commander GEN Stanley McChrystal, Lieutenant General Rodriguez, 
and Lieutenant General Caldwell. On the civilian side, Ambassador Karl 
Eikenberry and his team are putting in place the diplomatic and 
technical expertise in Kabul and the field to match our military 
effort.

One reason I am more optimistic now than when I visited Afghanistan 
in September is our counterinsurgency strategy is taking hold. Our 
troops are comfortable with the new focus on securing the Afghan 
people. This requires that our troops remain with the Afghan people and 
not just clearing towns and villages of Taliban and then leaving the 
Afghans to fend for themselves when the Taliban return. Our troops 
understand and embrace this people-centered approach. As British MG 
Nick Carter, Commander of the coalition forces in the south, said:




 If we show confidence and mutual trust, the population will 


 look after us.


The Afghan people are more optimistic than they have been in the 
recent past. A recent ABC News survey found that 70 percent of the 
Afghans polled said Afghanistan is headed in the right direction, a 
significant jump from a year ago. Over 60 percent of Afghans expect 
their children will have a better life. The Taliban remain extremely 
unpopular, and 68 percent of Afghans continue to support the presence 
of our troops in their country.

I have long been convinced that our principal mission in Afghanistan 
should be training the Afghan security forces. That drove my belief 
that we should not focus on adding more U.S. combat forces, except 
where we needed to train, equip, and support Afghan security forces.

As I put it when the President was considering additional combat 
forces, I supported a show of commitment but said commitment could be 
shown by additional trainers and support personnel, along with a flow 
of equipment to Afghan forces. I expressed then and believe now our 
major mission should be a surge of Afghan forces to take on the 
Taliban. Afghan security forces will ultimately win or lose the long 
battle with the Taliban. Our support will help, but our growing 
presence has a downside: a growing footprint, which is the physical and 
rhetorical propaganda target for the Taliban.

We heard in our conversations that President Obama's West Point 
speech in December has had a tangible, positive impact in ways that I 
believe are the most significant in Afghanistan. According to LTG Bill 
Caldwell, the head of our NATO training command, the number of new 
recruits signing up for the Afghan Army has skyrocketed from 3,000 in 
November to over 11,000 recruits in training today. The training 
command has had to turn recruits back because they didn't have enough 
trainers on hand. Lieutenant General Caldwell told us, forcefully and 
clearly, that what energized the Afghan leadership to call for and to 
reach out to new


recruits was the July 2011 date President Obama set for the beginning 
of reductions in U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Even more than the pay 
increase, which was announced for Afghan troops, Lieutenant General 
Caldwell said setting that date by President Obama made clear to the 
Afghan Government and to the Afghan people that President Obama means 
business when he says our presence in Afghanistan is not an open-ended 
commitment. Afghan leaders became focused on planning for the shift in 
principal responsibility from coalition forces to their forces that is 
highlighted by that July 2011 date, and they took urgent steps to 
increase recruitment to the Afghan Army. While it is too early to 
determine if the surge in U.S. combat forces will have the effect 
President Obama and General McChrystal intend, it is not too early, in 
other words, to see a positive effect toward accomplishing the mission 
of strengthening and training the Afghan Army.

A key to the success of that mission will be partnering with the 
Afghan security forces. In Regional Command South's Kandahar area, 
which we visited, coalition and Afghan units are partnering on a one-
to-one basis at all levels, from planning at the headquarters down to 
operations at the platoon level, and Afghans are taking the lead in 
operations. When I visited Helmand Province in the south in September, 
there were about five U.S. marines for every one Afghan soldier. In the 
coming months, additional Afghan forces will be arriving in Helmand so, 
by April, coalition and Afghan units will be partnered on a one-to-one 
basis as they conduct the key mission of providing security in the 
Helmand River Valley. We were informed Afghan forces will be leading 
that vital and dangerous mission.

Senator Franken and I saw up close how partnering of coalition and 
Afghan forces is being put into operation. This is not just about joint 
operations, though that is part of it. It is about Afghan and coalition 
troops living together and integrating their daily lives. This 
partnering is at the heart of our troops' mission, which is to prepare 
Afghan security forces to take responsibility for their nation's 
security. Some fully integrating partnering in the field is already 
occurring. General Rodriguez promised us he will get data on how many 
of the units in the field that are planning and operating with 
coalition units are fully integrated and how often and how many Afghan 
units are leading significant operations. While we didn't need more 
combat troops for the partnering mission--the shortfall being in the 
number of Afghan troops--the increase in Afghan units partnering with 
us is a significant advance.

Our military leaders often describe our counterinsurgency doctrine as 
shape, clear, hold, and build. But this falls short by one key goal. To 
shape, clear, hold, and build must be added ''transition,'' meaning our 
goal must be to transition responsibility for Afghanistan's security to 
their security forces. The commanders in the field we talked to get 
this, and their fully integrated partnering with Afghan security forces 
is the key to this transition.

While I am pleased with the speed with which partnering is occurring 
in the field, I am disappointed with the shortfall in trainers needed 
for the Afghan Army and police. Currently, only 37 percent of the 
required U.S. and NATO trainers for building the Afghan Army and police 
are on hand in Afghanistan or, numerically, 1,574 out of a requirement 
for more than 4,235 trainers. Lieutenant General Caldwell's training 
command has been promised the first 1,000 of the 30,000 U.S. soldiers 
flowing into the theater with that surge, and 150 of that 1,000 have 
already arrived. At the same time, NATO countries remain 90 percent 
short of meeting the ISAF mission requirements for trainers with less 
than 200 non-U.S. trainers deployed against a non-U.S. NATO commitment 
of about 2,000. Only 200 have arrived on the scene. Another 200 NATO 
trainers were pledged by NATO members in December but without a 
timeline for when those trainers would arrive in theater. That is 
simply unacceptable. Those NATO countries that are either unwilling or 
unable to send additional combat troops into the fight in Afghanistan 
should be able to help provide trainers for basic training who operate 
away from the frontlines. Lieutenant General Caldwell told us, any 
well-trained U.S. or coalition soldier could instruct Afghan soldiers 
in the 8-week course of basic training. A top priority for our NATO 
allies at the London conference, which I believe is this week, needs to 
be closing the gap in trainers for the Afghan Army and police.

Another area where there has been progress is on equipping the Afghan 
security forces, and that is critical to accelerating the growth of the 
Afghan Army and police.

The training command reports that the equipment requirements for the 
Army and police have been identified and listed, and actions are 
underway to meet those needs, including with equipment coming out of 
Iraq as U.S. forces draw down there. This month, equipment began to 
flow from the Iraq theater to Afghanistan, and Lieutenant General 
Caldwell's staff expects that over 250 of over 1,300 humvees from Iraq 
will begin to arrive this month to meet the needs of the Afghan police. 
This was made possible by the language in the Fiscal Year 2010 National 
Defense Authorization Act which authorizes the transfer of nonexcess as 
well as excess defense equipment from Iraq to Afghanistan as U.S. 
forces draw down in Iraq.

Finally, relative to plans for the reintegration of lower level 
Taliban fighters, the Karzai government has been working closely with 
General McChrystal's staff, under the leadership of a British major 
general, to construct a plan offering incentives to low- and mid-level 
Taliban fighters who are willing to lay down their weapons and 
recognize the Afghan Government's authority. Incentives would include 
amnesty and jobs programs for reintegrating former fighters. President 
Karzai has said he will be ready to issue this plan within a month or 
so, and U.S. officials expect to be fully supportive. It will take a 
few months after that to make the plan operational. While there is 
apparently no progress to negotiate with higher level Taliban to end 
the violence and become politically active, it does not reduce the need 
to chip away at that lower level Taliban group.

We read in the press today that progress is being made, as a matter 
of fact, with local leaders in Afghanistan in that endeavor.

In conclusion, we saw some signs of progress on our visit in a number 
of critical ways--in training and equipping Afghan security forces; in 
partnering closely in the field with the Afghan security forces; in a 
perception and reality of optimism among the military, civilian 
officials, and the Afghan people; and in devising a plan for 
reintegrating Taliban fighters who lay down their arms. We have the 
right strategy and mission for stabilizing the security situation and 
transitioning responsibility for Afghanistan's future to the Afghan 
Army and people. While we are on the right track now, we have a long 
way to go before we can feel confident that the tide has turned.

Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.