---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `7d849f7f40dcc1241b396c4557a59ade`
`Mr. CHANDLER — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. CHANDLER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate all that the gentleman from 
Arkansas is doing to bring these issues to the forefront, to the 
American people, because I believe they are extremely important and I 
know all Members of the Blue Dog Coalition believe that accountability 
and responsibility to the people of our Nation is of the utmost 
importance.

Mr. Speaker, the President sent a $2.9 trillion budget to Congress 
yesterday. That is quite a lot of money. And you would think that among 
those trillions of hard-earned tax dollars the President would find 
resources for the most essential services like education for our kids 
and health care for our veterans. But, once again, those who need our 
help the most are the very people who have been pushed aside.

If we follow this budget, Medicaid and Medicare will be cut by $101 
billion over the next 5 years; health care for our veterans will be 
slashed by $3.5 billion over 5 years; Perkins loan funds for our 
college students will be recalled; and No Child Left Behind will be 
underfunded by some $15 billion. The President, in addition, would have 
us cut State preparedness training programs and firefighter and law 
enforcement grants, depriving our first responders of the funds 
necessary to operate in this post-9/11 world.

These policies make no sense. They rob our children of opportunity, 
make our communities less safe, and dishonor those who have sacrificed 
while wearing our Nation's uniform. I could understand some of these 
cuts if they were being made in the name of fiscal responsibility, but 
they are not.

If we were truly making an effort to reduce our public debt, I could, 
and I believe the American people could, accept some pain. Because the 
cause that we would be fighting in that case would be a good one, and 
it would be about our future.

But that is not the case. This budget is not trying to reduce the 
debt. The President's budget will drag us even deeper into debt, to the 
tune of $3.2 trillion over the next 10 years. Trillion. That is a lot 
of money. Burdening future generations with mountains of debt, not of 
their own making.

Mr. Speaker, when I talk with my constituents back home in 
communities rich in values and common sense, they ask me a simple 
question over and over again.



Where is their tax money going?

If we are cutting all of these programs, yet going deeper into debt, 
what value are we getting for our tax dollar?

We owe it to our constituents to answer these questions. And it 
starts with ending the black hole of waste, fraud and abuse that is 
plaguing our reconstruction efforts in Iraq.

Here are the facts: we have already budgeted some $108 billion on 
reconstruction. Yet, the Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction is 
telling us that we haven't come close to recovering the level of basic 
services that Iraqis enjoyed under Saddam Hussein.

Here is the return Americans are getting on their over $100 billion 
tax investment: only 25 percent of Iraqis have access to clean water; 
access to modern sewer facilities remains an incredible problem for 
most Iraqi families; Iraqis now have electricity for only 4.3 hours per 
day; and oil production is down almost one million barrels a day since 
the levels before the war.

How long are we going to let this farce continue?

We can argue all day about spending priorities. But can we not at 
least agree to make sure that our tax dollars are being efficiently 
spent to accomplish good? Because right now the only thing I see these 
tax dollars are doing efficiently is lining the pockets of government 
contractors.

How many reports of jobs being billed that were never authorized; 
jobs being started without permission; individuals admitting to 
stealing millions of reconstruction dollars, and private contractors, 
such as Halliburton, being awarded unprecedented numbers of no-bid 
government contracts do we have to put up with before we do something 
about it?

Well, Mr. Speaker, it is my belief and the belief of the Blue Dog 
Coalition that we must demand accountability. The President, with his 
proposed budget, is telling our seniors, our students, our veterans, 
and our working families that our country doesn't have the money to 
help pay for their health care or for their education.

I say we will come closer to having the money for health care and 
education if we stop mismanaging funds in Iraq and greasing the pockets 
of contractors who are failing, in many instances, to get the job done. 
That is why our coalition, the Blue Dog Coalition, has introduced the 
House resolution for the Operation Iraqi Freedom Cost Accountability.

In the spirit of the Truman Committee, which defeated so much 
corruption and saved our country in excess of $15 billion during World 
War II, this resolution outlines the critical steps this body must take 
to hold the administration accountable for its neglect of taxpayer 
dollars.

It is our constitutional obligation, as Members of this body, to 
provide oversight for war spending. And Congress has neglected this 
duty for far too long. We owe it to the taxpayers of this country, to 
the troops who are fighting this war, and, yes, we owe it to future 
generations who are going to be financing this war for many, many, many 
years to come to stop the wasteful spending of this administration and 
war profiteering by contractors.

We need a modern-day Truman Committee. And we need transparency on 
how Iraq war funds are being spent. The days of offering the President 
a blank check are over. We need to ask the tough questions, and we need 
to send a message that waste, fraud and abuse in Iraq reconstruction 
just simply will not be tolerated.

I thank all of my fellow Blue Dogs for the work that they are doing 
on this issue, for continuing to raise awareness, and I hope that my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join forces to restore 
fiscal integrity to this war.

Thank you, Mr. Ross. I appreciate the time. I appreciate the job that 
you are doing.