---
---

# PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION
## `7d8cc0b5394a2eab3a1de0384ca40e4b`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Thank you very much, Mr. Meek. The honor 
is also to be part of the 30-Something Working Group and to get to 
spend the precious moments on the floor with you and Mr. Ryan, Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Altmire and others who can't be here this 
evening.

As you noted, I am a new Member of Congress. I came from the 
Connecticut State legislature. I came here with some degree of 
trepidation, because coming from the Connecticut State legislature, a 
place in which partisanship has its day, but certainly is not the rule, 
the reputation of this place, at least under the last 12 years of 
Republican rule, struck fear into the hearts of a lot of new Members, 
because we came from experiences, at least those of us who came from 
experiences in the State legislature, where


the rule was that we reached out and worked across the aisle. The rule 
was that to get anything done, you needed to have Republican and 
Democratic support.

The reason that in Connecticut the State legislature enjoys a level 
of support and approval that the United States Congress has not 
traditionally had is in part because on the most important stuff, in 
Connecticut we found a way to do that.

I was the chair of the Public Health Committee for several years in 
the Connecticut legislature and we passed the Nation's first stem cell 
investment law. We did it with a Republican Governor. We did it on a 
bill that was introduced by a Republican senator and a Republican 
member of the House, even though Democrats had near veto-proof 
majorities in both chambers. We did it with Republicans and Democrats. 
Frankly, it didn't matter what the letter was after your name, R or D. 
It was the right thing to do. So I came down here as a member of the 
new Democratic majority wondering whether there was going to be a 
chance for that same type of cooperation.

As you pointed out, Mr. Meek, we saw it immediately in those first 
100 hours. In the agenda we put forth on energy, on the minimum wage, 
on student loans, on ethics, we had Republicans and Democrats standing 
together.

Now, that hasn't happened every day here on the House floor, and the 
times it doesn't are the moments in which CNN and MSNBC and the talk 
show pundits jump on it. But, really, when you talk about the big 
things that have passed here, you have seen this House coming together. 
You saw it on the farm bill most recently, and you saw it today.

For anyone that was lucky enough to be here on the House floor, Mr. 
Meek, maybe you mentioned it, to see the debate on the defense 
authorization bill, it was a pretty remarkable bipartisan affair. In 
fact, the bill is named after the Republican ranking member of the 
Armed Services Committee, Mr. Hunter, probably something that average 
voters out there who hear about the conflict that happens in this House 
every day wouldn't have expected. But there is, I hope, a growing 
spirit here on the House floor that we can cross the aisle that 
literally exists here on the House floor in order to pass important 
things.

But we need more of it. We need more of it because the most important 
issues for our constituents can't happen unless we have the votes here 
all too often to overcome the President's veto. We did that today with 
an incredibly important farm bill that begins the process of 
transferring unjustifiable subsidies for American farmers and turns 
them around to funding for conservation programs and nutrition 
programs. We are going to stand up to the President when it comes to 
sensible farm policy. But we need more of that.

When it comes to the GI Bill, which is this Congress' landmark effort 
to once again recommit ourselves to a notion that this Nation stood 
upon in the wake of World War II, that every returning GI from the 
field of battle should have access to a quality education in a school 
of their choosing in their State, we have withdrawn from that 
commitment since World War II, and this House and our compatriots in 
the Senate are attempting to make that commitment once again.

The funding for returning GIs has withered to the point that that 
commitment no longer exists. If you want to come back and you can go to 
school, maybe you will get a little bit of help, but you are still 
going to have to pay a significant amount of money, and you are 
probably going to have to do it part-time, because there has been 
historically not enough money for living expenses for those GIs.

We think if we are going to ask you to be a full-time warrior for 
this country in Iraq or Afghanistan, we should allow you to be a full-
time student when you come back to the United States. We should be able 
to pay your way to the most expensive State college in your State, but 
we should also give you a stipend in order to make that journey through 
college education full time. If we are asking men and women to fight 
and die for us, to sustain injuries that change their lives on the 
field of battle, we should support them when they come home by 
providing them with educational benefits.

But we don't have the votes here on the House floor today to override 
that presidential veto, Mr. Meek. So we need more of that bipartisan 
cooperation that we have seen. Democrats are willing to stand up for 
returning veterans to give them a new GI Bill. We stood in lockstep as 
the majority party here last week to do that. We had 30 or 40-some odd 
of our Republican colleagues join us in that effort, but that is not 
enough to get past the threatened presidential veto.


I can't explain to you why the President doesn't think it is the 
right thing to do, to stand up for our GIs when they come back home. He 
has stretched our militarily to the breaking point, and he is not 
willing to sustain them when they come back to the United States.

We clearly believe that one of the most important things that we can 
do in this Congress between now and the adjournment is pass that GI 
Bill and recruit enough of our colleagues on the Republican side so 
that we can overturn that veto. We have shown that we can do it. We did 
it on the farm bill. We have done it before.

We have also shown that we can go out and make our case to the 
American public so that the President changes his mind. The President, 
if you remember, Mr. Speaker, first threatened he was going to veto the 
college affordability bill, which transferred subsidies for banks into 
subsidies for students, lowering the student loan interest rate in half 
from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. The President said he was going to 
veto that. But when we went out there and made the case to the American 
public and asked them to make the case to the President that this was 
the right thing to do in a tough economy for millions of students and 
families out there that needed a little help, he changed his mind and 
signed that bill.

Just recently, after making a lot of noise in opposition to our 
efforts to suspend deposits into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and 
put that oil instead out on to the market to lower gas prices by 
anywhere, who knows, from 5 cents to 20 cents, a small but meaningful 
decrease through the suspension of deposits into the SPR, after making 
a lot of noise that the President was going to oppose or veto that 
legislation, he ended up signing it.

So when it comes to the GI Bill, we have got two tasks ahead of us. 
Let's try to build the bipartisan consensus that we have had here on 
many days in the House of Representatives. Let's try to push beyond the 
30 or 40 Republican Members that have supported the bill so far so that 
we don't have to worry about a presidential veto. But let's go out and 
talk to veterans organizations, to talk to military families, to talk 
to our educational institutions.

Let's grow a coalition over the coming weeks and months so that the 
President has the opportunity to change his mind, so the President has 
the opportunity to stand with us on the side of returning service men 
and women for the educational benefits that they deserve. Just like our 
grandparents, our parents, got that benefit when they came back from 
World War II, let's do it again for the thousands upon thousands of GIs 
returning every month from the field of battle in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Meek, you led off on the right note. There is an amazing amount 
of bipartisan cooperation happening here, but we have got to extend it 
to some of the most important measures that we can pass between now and 
the end of this historic legislative session.