---
---

# None
## `7d967d3f0690664377dfef31a6c3d024`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate it, and no more important 
than the Ways and Means Committee, of which you serve on, and all your 
hard work over the past 4 years in the United States Congress, previous 
to that in the Florida Senate, previous to that in the Florida House, 
following in your mom's footsteps, who was also an appropriator in the 
United States Congress. So it is an honor to follow in her footsteps.

I think there is a couple of very important points that we want to 
make in regards to this bill that we have before us on Thursday. It 
passed out of the Appropriations Committee last Thursday, and this, in 
essence, in fact, in reality, is the piece of legislation that will 
help change the course of our Iraq policy.

The President has had free rein for the past 5 years from a 
Republican Congress that just went along with everything that he wanted 
to do, and I found it funny this weekend, as we were watching some of 
the weekend shows, and I was watching Meet the Press and former 
Congressman Tom DeLay was on, Richard Perle, one of the top, 
President's top defense advisers was on, and they were arguing that


if we pull out of Iraq, that somehow the sky's going to fall, okay, and 
that this whole thing, that Iraq is going to turn into a catastrophe, 
and it is going to fall apart; it is going to spin out of control.

I just could not help but to think that these people, Mr. Speaker, 
have absolutely no credibility to comment on what is going on in Iraq. 
They can talk and they can say what they need to say, but the bottom 
line is they have expressed their opinion over the past 5 years, and it 
is difficult to find any statements that they have made that have been 
either factual or predictions that they have made that came true.

I want to say a couple of things about this bill that we are going to 
pass.