---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `7d9aa8e8842d09500fa023fc2b79b3c2`
`Mr. REID — 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, it is legislation that every State in the 
Union is calling us about, their Governors and other representatives, 
to please take care of this. That is what we need to do. Are we doing 
this to take care of the doctors? Partially, yes, but the other reason 
we are doing it is we are doing it to preserve Medicare. If we do not 
do this, there will be more doctors who drop out of taking care of 
Medicare patients.

What does that mean? It also means there will be other people who are 
reimbursed by insurance companies and other health care providers who 
base their reimbursement on what Medicare pays. So we have to do this 
fix. It is not only to take care of the doctors, it is to take care of 
patients and Americans from one end of this country to the other.

Finally, we have a supplemental appropriations bill. I would hope we 
could pass that before the Fourth of July recess. It is an emergency 
supplemental. We know it funds the war fighting. No matter how people 
feel about the money that has gone to pay for this war, costing us in 
Iraq alone $5,000 every second, I would hope everyone understands we 
are not going to vote on the war funding in this measure that is before 
us now. But we have other things we have to vote on or the war funding 
would not come forward, and that is important issues such as the GI 
bill of rights and unemployment


compensation extension which States are drastically in need of.

It does other good things. There is money in here as a result of the 
floods that have taken place. That is important. There are Medicaid 
fixes. Out of the seven regulations that are causing a problem with 
every Governor in America, six of them will be repealed by this 
legislation. So there is no reason that we can't do this legislation.

I have said repeatedly we can pass all four of these bills this week. 
We can do them tomorrow, as a matter of fact. But as with everything 
else we try to accomplish around here in a closely divided Senate, 
passing them will require the cooperation of Members from both sides of 
the aisle.

The filibuster chart is now up to 78. Of course, this is an alltime 
record for obstructionism. I have said our Republican colleagues, on 
occasion, have acted Orwellian this year; they say one thing and do 
another. I guess today is an appropriate day to say this because it is 
George Orwell's birthday today. He would be 105 today.

So I would hope everyone understands there will be no going home 
tomorrow unless we complete the things we are obligated to the American 
people to complete. Now, some say, well, that may mean we are going to 
have to be here Saturday. Yes, it may mean we have to be here Saturday 
because that is the way it is, and if we can't complete our work by 
Saturday, then we can continue our work. It wouldn't be the first time 
in the history of this country that important legislation was worked on 
during a holiday. Now, the Fourth of July doesn't come until next 
Friday or Saturday, a week from the day after tomorrow. So we may have 
to work here. Everyone should understand that. Everyone has 
obligations. I do. I don't get to go home as much as a lot of people. I 
would love to be able to go home on Friday, but we may not be able to. 
We have to, in my opinion, complete the supplemental appropriations. 
That is extremely important. We have to complete the Medicare 
legislation before we go. If we can complete FISA, I am not going to 
stand in the way of that. I think we should do that too. It appears 
now, realistically, with this objection to the housing bill, it appears 
very clear to me that is going to take more time, and we will not be 
able to do it by the day after tomorrow, but we are going to complete 
it. We have gone too far to do that. I tell all those people who are 
objecting to our completing this housing legislation: We will complete 
it. It may not be tomorrow, it may not be Friday, it may have to wait 
until the first week we get back. I understand the procedural aspects 
of that. It could require two more cloture votes, but two more cloture 
votes would only bring us to 80. We have worked through more difficult 
things than that. We have a relatively short work period in July, and 
it is guaranteed that we will do--we will complete the work on the 
housing bill the first week we get back.

So that is the best I can do. I am not upset with anyone. It has been 
an interesting day, but it is a day that focuses attention on the work 
we need to do. I haven't even mentioned the FAA extension. We have to 
do that some way. We tried to do that, and that was objected to. We 
have this global AIDS bill the President wants to do. I had a good 
conversation with Senator Enzi a few minutes ago, and he said he had 
three people who were objecting to that. He has taken care of two of 
them today. He is going to deal with the other one tomorrow. I hope, in 
fact, that is the case. So there is a lot of work we need to do, and I 
hope we can do it. But everyone should understand we are not walking 
out of here at 2 o'clock tomorrow. If this means we have to stay until 
after midnight to file cloture on various things, we will do that. We 
have work we have to do for the American people.