---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `7db128f97c642ee80a29139942471ff7`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Minnesota, the 
distinguished president of our class, for yielding and thank him for 
the superb job he has done in leading us through this wonderful year 
that we are spending as new Members of Congress.

I want to start this segment by actually reading the first few words 
of the Constitution of the United States because too often I find that, 
as I go around the country and go around my district, the people have 
lost sight and I think many Members of Congress have lost sight of 
exactly what the Founding Fathers did 220 years ago. I think we are all 
familiar with the preamble of the Constitution, and it starts with 
those wonderful words ''We the people,'' those incredible words that 
actually go to the heart of what we are about as a democracy:

''We the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect 
union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the 
common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings 
of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this 
Constitution for the United States of America.''

Now, following those words, following that brief preamble, it says in 
article I, section 1: ''All legislative Powers herein granted shall be 
vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a 
Senate and House of Representatives.''

I think it's amazing to think back to what was going on in those 
formative years of our Republic in 1787. The country had just rebelled 
against a monarch in England, and when they were establishing a 
government that would reflect the hopes and dreams of the people who 
had gone through that incredible war of revolution against England, 
they decided to create a government in which the ultimate power would 
rest in the people. That's why they said at beginning of the preamble, 
''We the people.'' They created in article I the representative body of 
government that we sit in today. They did that because they didn't want 
one person being the decider of everything that affected their lives. 
They wanted to vest the power to govern in themselves through their 
representatives in Congress.

And so we sit here as successors to that incredible legacy. And it is 
not only our power to do that vested by the Constitution in article I; 
it is our responsibility. We have an obligation to govern on behalf of 
our citizens, ''we the people,'' as reflected in our representation 
here.

I think those of us who were elected for the first time last November 
know that, yes, we were elected partially because of the war in Iraq, 
but we were also elected because the people of the country decided that 
they really wanted to make sure their voice was heard in Washington. 
They thought their voice was being ignored. They said this is our 
government. We are going to change it by sending people there who will 
listen to us and will put our desires into action through the 
legislative process.

So I thought it would be wonderful to call attention to the fact that 
article I does impose, again, not just these powers, but it also 
imposes responsibilities. And that's what we came here to do, and we 
recognize that. We want everyone in Congress, both parties, to share in 
this acknowledgment of what our responsibilities are under the 
Constitution. I am so proud to have with me tonight and so proud to 
serve with wonderful people who are committed to the same ideals.

I would like to recognize Betty Sutton from Ohio, one of our 
wonderful new Members, to elaborate on article I and what we are doing 
to realize and to fulfill our responsibilities under article I.