---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `7dbe5331bea4eb784e8dc0bcd7be4904`
`Mr. LEAHY — 6 August 2009`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today, I am pleased to introduce the 
Reserve Officers Association Modernization Act of 2009. I want to thank 
Senators Chambliss and Pryor for joining me to introduce this 
legislation. As the cochairs of the United States Senate Reserve 
Caucus, Senators Chambliss and Pryor have worked hard for the brave men 
and women of the United States Reserves.

Over the past decade, our country has relied on the National Guard 
and Reserves more than at any other time in recent history. The Guard 
and Reserves provide an invaluable contribution to our Nation's 
military, our national security, and disaster relief efforts. In recent 
years the National Guard and Reserves have demonstrated their position 
as a keystone to our military operations, particularly in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and stepped forward repeatedly to answer the call-to-duty 
at a tempo not seen in decades. At the same time, the support from the 
Guard and Reserves for homeland duties has been at an all time high. 
The Guard and Reserves have provided crucial support to our Governors 
and States during natural disasters such as the aftermath of Hurricane 
Katrina. In addition, they have assumed additional roles in homeland 
security as our country has adopted new policies following the attacks 
of September 11, 2001. This new era for the Guard and Reserves prompted 
Congress and the Department of Defense to review many existing and but 
outdated policies.

The 95-member U.S. Senate National Guard Caucus, which I cochair 
along with Senator Bond, plays an integral role in the review and 
implementation of new policies. I have worked closely with groups like 
the Reserve Officers Association, ROA, to ensure that the National 
Guard and Reserves have access to more affordable health care, a 
greater influence in the military, adequate training facilities and 
supplies, and shorter troop deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Since its founding in 1922, the ROA has worked on behalf of the 
National Guard and Reserves and their families. For over 85 years, ROA 
has remained committed to its original mission, to ''support and 
promote the development and execution of a military policy for the 
United States that will provide adequate National security.'' The 
Reserve Officers Association represents the Reserve Components officers 
for the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, the Air and 
Army National Guard, Public Health Service, and the officers of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

This legislation would update the Reserve Officers Association's 
Federal Charter to reflect two recent changes in the organization. 
First, it would add the position of ''president elect'' to its 
constitution and bylaws. Second, it would expand the ROA from only 
three national executive committee members to include three 
representatives from each of the seven branches of the uniformed 
services. The Reserve Officers Association's charter has not been 
modified since 1998 and this legislation would update it to correctly 
reflect the current operation of the organization and enable ROA to 
continue its good work.

The Reserve Officers Association has provided a voice to the men and 
women that serve our country in the National Guard and Reserves. I urge 
Senators on both sides of the aisle to show their support for the brave 
members of the National Guard and Reserves by enacting this legislation 
swiftly.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.