---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7dbfb5d95aeda781797687d7a54431f6`
`Mr. LaHOOD — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution. 
More importantly, I rise today to express my support for our Commander 
in Chief and the men and women serving in the Armed Forces. It is 
simply not possible to claim that you support the troops while 
completely disavowing their mission.

Our troops in Iraq put their mission first, above all else, even 
their own safety. How can we even consider passing a resolution stating 
that we do not support providing them the manpower that they need to 
accomplish their mission? How does this support the morale? How does 
this show them that we have confidence in their abilities?

As we all know, this resolution has no real legal authority, it is 
preemptive, purely political, without taking the difficult step of 
offering an alternative proposal. At first I thought this debate was 
simply political theater, 3 days of speeches and sound bites.

But now we are learning this resolution is simply the first step. The 
gentleman from Virginia quoted in The Washington Post yesterday, 
saying: This is just the bark, this resolution is the bark, the real 
bite will be in 2 weeks when they trot out a continuing resolution or 
appropriation bill that will cut off the funds to the troops.

I hope you are all relishing the opportunity to support that 
appropriation to cut off the troops. This is the bark. The next the 
step is to cut off the funds.

I supported the original resolution authorizing force. I have served 
on the Intelligence Committee for 8 years, and I believe we have done 
the right thing. I believe our troops have done the right thing.

Saddam is gone. He has been tried and executed; 12 million Iraqis, 
over 70 percent of the people, have voted for their own leadership. The 
army and the police are being trained. Schools and hospitals are being 
built and opened. Coalition forces have done the best they can under 
extraordinary circumstances.

Iraqis need to continue to take control of the security. And in every 
discussion we have had with the Commander in Chief, he has been on the 
phone talking to the Prime Minister, persuading him that the American 
people are becoming impatient, that he has to take control of his 
government, he has to stand up an army, he has to stand up a police 
force.

I believe the Commander in Chief, the President, will hold the Prime 
Minister's feet to the fire and hold the Iraqi Government accountable 
so that they can begin to take full control of the responsibilities.

I think when that happens we will have achieved a great deal. I will 
not vote for this resolution that does nothing but show our enemies 
that the House of Representatives does not support our military. This 
ignores the more than 3,100 men and women who made the ultimate 
sacrifice. We turn our backs on the 3,100 when we pass a resolution 
like this.



And we also turn our backs on those that are doing the hard work in 
Iraq today. When I have had opportunities to visit those who have 
served from my district, who have come back, I have not heard one word 
of complaining, not one word of whining, no wringing of hands, only an 
opportunity to serve.

And so I urge my colleagues to stand up for the troops, stand up for 
the military, stand up for those who have done the hard work. Stand up 
for those who have made the ultimate sacrifice. Vote down this 
resolution and send the message that we stand with those who stand for 
freedom and hope and opportunity.