---
---

# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `7dc3009df549a0311c1bbd8313e3c250`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Quickly I would just add about Iraq two quotes, 
one from Ambassador Ryan Crocker. When I was over there with our 
Republican colleagues Tom Cole, Ric Keller, Dave Loebsack of Iowa, the 
four Members of Congress sat with the Ambassador, and he was asked by 
one of us, ''What's the state of reconciliation and peace and resolving 
the conflicts between the tribes and the different religious sects?''

And I was sitting right next to him; so I wrote down his response to 
be sure I had it right. His response was, ''The Maliki Government is 
somewhere between challenged and dysfunctional.'' Now, that was 
October.

In March General Petraeus stated on March 13, ''No one feels that 
there has been sufficient progress by any means in the area of national 
reconciliation.''

So it's my contention that not only do the Iraqis need to start 
paying for their own reconstruction, I think they need to take 
responsibility for their own security as well because as long as we are 
putting our men and women in a police role to try to police their civil 
war and their ethnic and tribal and religious differences, it's just 
going to let them continue to be dysfunctional. And when we phase out 
or pull out or whatever you want to call it and get back to the real 
business that this country faces, the real dangers that we face, which, 
as you said before, I believe, are Afghanistan and Pakistan certainly 
more in terms of terrorism, that they will be forced to come to terms 
with whether they want to be a country or whether they want to be three 
separate groups of Kurds and Sunnis and Shia or whatever it is. But 
that's one thing.

And the other thing is I am a firm believer that after 5 years and a 
least $600 billion spent and over $1 trillion in veterans' benefits 
that we have incurred that we will have to pay out of responsibility 
and the debt that we owe to the men and women who fought in this 
conflict that it's time for us to start looking at what those dollars 
could do at home for the things that we really need to take care of, 
not just for national security but for economic security, education 
security, health security, and all the other meanings of the word.

So I thank my friends both, and I thank the gentleman from Florida 
for chairing this session.