---
---

# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `7dcf496c8031a2d978e002635c29fd7e`
`Mr. LEVIN — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I oppose the Feingold amendment. Section 
1019 of the Feingold amendment specifically requires the President, by 
December 31, 2010, to submit a timetable for the completion of 
redeployment of our troops out of Afghanistan.

The message our military presence in Afghanistan is not open-ended 
was delivered by President Obama at West Point last December when he 
set the date of July 2011 to begin a reduction of U.S. forces in 
Afghanistan. It was an important message of reassurance to the American 
people, and it was an important message for the Afghan leaders to hear: 
that while we intend to help Afghanistan succeed in its battle with the 
Taliban, our troop presence is not open-ended, and they must build up 
their own army and their police force to take responsibility for their 
own security.

If we adopt the Feingold amendment, we will be sending a very 
different message to the government and to the people of Afghanistan. 
It would reinforce the fear if we adopt this amendment--an already 
deep-seated fear in Afghanistan--that the United States will abandon 
the region. That is a message we can ill-afford to send regarding the 
future stability of Afghanistan, and it is a particularly unwise 
message to send while our forces are still deploying to Afghanistan and 
while the Taliban is doing everything it can to convince the Afghan 
people that U.S., NATO, and Afghan forces are unable to protect them 
from the violence and the intimidation that is their hallmark.

The President's decision to set the beginning point to begin the 
reduction of our forces in Afghanistan in July of 2011 was a wise 
decision. It was supported by our senior civilian and military leaders. 
They supported the decision, provided that the pace and the location of 
the reductions would be determined by the conditions on the ground at 
the time in Afghanistan.

The Feingold amendment is totally different. It requires the setting 
of a timetable for completion of redeployment of our troops from 
Afghanistan, and it requires that timetable to be set by this December. 
It is an unwise move, and I hope we do not adopt it.

I yield the floor.