---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `7dd38bf12ed3a04383e1bdbb6fa0b292`
`Ms. WATERS — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, thank you for allocating the time for me to 
come and basically disagree with you on this floor, but that is what 
democracy is all about.

I don't believe that this bill will do what it is intended to do. I 
don't believe it makes good sense to say that our troops should be well 
trained and well equipped, and then give the President the right to 
waive that.

I don't believe that the President will report to us in any fashion 
that we can rely on in July, which will determine whether or not we get 
out by December or whether we continue to give assistance to the 
Iraqis.

I don't believe that it is enforceable, and I don't believe that this 
war will end by next August even though I think that is what the 
leadership intends for it to do.

This war has been mismanaged. We have been misled. We have been made 
to believe we would be welcomed with open arms. There were no weapons 
of mass destruction. That the troops were getting trained and success 
was right around the corner, and even last week when carnage was taking 
place in Iraq and our soldiers were being killed, this administration 
was out in the media talking about we were succeeding. And we will 
continue to be misled. This war has been mismanaged.

We don't have any friends in Iraq. The Sunnis do not want us there. 
The Shiites don't like the occupation, and the Kurds don't like us. We 
are undermined on a daily basis.

Even Mr. Maliki, who is supposed to be our ally, is working with Sadr 
over in Sadr City, who controls the militias. The police departments 
that are supposedly working to secure the people


are part of the undermining that is going on. Our soldiers, when they 
are in confrontations, are deserted by the very people that they are 
supposed to train.

General said this cannot be won militarily, it must be done 
diplomatically. I don't see the diplomatic effort.

I don't believe that giving $100 billion to the President of the 
United States to continue this war will achieve the goal that we intend 
for it to achieve. I oppose this legislation. I will continue to work 
with the Out of Iraq Caucus, and I am hopeful we can end this war and 
bring our soldiers home.