# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `7dd88413ae992669f3bd0f1d1da7ab2f`
`Mr. FORBES — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. FORBES. Mr. Speaker, this motion to recommit improves this bill 
by fully providing for our troops on the battlefield, protecting the 
American people at home from ballistic missile threats, and doing so 
without borrowing from any significant program.

First, this motion provides $1.4 billion in equipment requested by 
our men and women in combat and which this House agreed they needed 
because we included it in the 2009 supplemental the first time. This 
funding is for MRAP vehicles, Blackhawk helicopters and UAVs, which 
have persistently been some of our troops' highest priorities for Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, after the House included this funding in the 
supplemental, the Senate included a provision to provide a $100 billion 
global bailout to the IMF. In order to pay the bill, the equipment 
needed by our servicemen and women in action was stripped from the 
supplemental.

I do not think any Member of this distinguished body believes we 
should have provided any loan to the IMF, or any other international 
body, without first taking care of our men and women on the 
battlefield.

Mr. Speaker, this bill will have some critical components of this 
motion and would restore 1,600 additional Humvees and combat vehicles, 
250 MRAP vehicles to protect our soldiers from roadside bombs, four 
additional helicopters and four additional aircraft so our soldiers 
don't have to drive those roads in the first place, and six unmanned 
aerial vehicles to address critical shortfalls in intelligence and 
reconnaissance.

In addition to fulfilling the wartime needs of our troops, this 
motion would add $1.2 billion to restore missile defense funding to the 
fiscal year 2009 levels.

Last year, this Congress provided $10.5 billion for missile defense. 
Since that time, North Korea and Iran's nuclear and missile 
capabilities have demonstrably grown as credible threats to the 
security of the United States.

North Korea has threatened to ''wipe out'' the United States and 
reportedly is preparing an intercontinental ballistic missile launch 
that could reach Hawaii or the continental United States.

In April, the President himself said ''Iran's nuclear and ballistic 
missile activity poses a real threat, not just to the United States, 
but to Iran's neighbors and our allies.''

Despite these increasing threats, the bill cuts missile defense by 
$1.2 billion from last year. And this includes a 35 percent reduction 
to a vital missile defense system in Alaska and California designed to 
protect the United States homeland.

These cuts lack supporting analysis and challenge common sense. If 
North Korea does what it says, or if the President is right about Iran, 
this may be one of the most crucial votes we take.

The $2.6 billion to pay for the equipment our troops need and to 
maintain last year's missile defense funding level will come from a 
Department of Energy account that has already received more than $5 
billion in stimulus funding on top of a baseline request of $5.5 
billion.

We may hear concerns from the other side of the aisle that we are 
skimming off the top of important environmental cleanup projects. 
However, Energy Department officials have stated publicly that the 
stimulus funds go to the lowest priority projects. I also would like to 
note that cleanup funds do not expire, and the billions of dollars of 
stimulus funds provided for this effort won't expire for 5 years. It is 
more than reasonable to expect that the Secretary of Energy can 
responsibly reallocate the resources he receives across the 
environmental management portfolio.

Therefore, the real question before the House is whether we should 
allocate $2.6 billion to the Department of Energy for their admittedly 
lowest priority cleanup projects, or, to allocate this $2.6 billion for 
much-needed equipment for our troops in combat and to defend our Nation 
against the rising threats of missile attacks.

Mr. Speaker, the choice is clear. The decision should be even 
clearer. And with that, Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to vote 
for this motion.

I yield back.