---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `7ddd292663c2f196f57e680d602f06c1`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 27 February 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you so much. It is a pleasure to join my 
30-something colleagues, Mr. Meek and Mr. Murphy.

Mr. Meek, you started talking about the travesty that was revealed by 
The Washington Post just before last weekend about what is going on at 
Walter Reed Medical Center and the campus and its facilities.

I had the privilege of going to visit our men and women that are at 
Walter Reed who have come back from Iraq injured. Almost every soldier 
I met with was an amputee and went through a devastating experience, 
devastating injury. But the ward that they take you through, like this 
article says, is spit-polished and brand-spanking clean. There is not a 
shadow of what is described in this third-party validator, which is how 
we refer to our information that we bring out here to demonstrate the 
facts.

I want to read just a paragraph from the article. I want to highlight 
some of the things, and we have been joined by our good friend Mr. 
Altmire from Pennsylvania.

This article hit me like a ton of bricks: ''Life beyond the hospital 
bed,'' and this is what is going on at Walter Reed that is not what 
they show us as Members of Congress and that they show the President 
and Vice President about what is going on at Walter Reed. ''Life beyond 
the hospital bed is a frustrating mountain of paperwork. The typical 
soldier is required to file 22 documents with eight different commands, 
most of them off post, to enter and exit the medical processing world, 
according to government investigators. Sixteen different information 
systems are used to process the forms, but few of them can communicate 
with one another. The Army's three personnel databases cannot read each 
other's files and can't interact with the separate pay system or the 
medical record keeping databases. The disappearance of necessary forms 
and records is the most common reason soldiers languish at Walter Reed 
longer than they should,'' and it goes on.

That is just unbelievable. A mountain of red tape and bureaucracy is 
what our troops come back to the United States to and have to deal 
with. I thought we well established after 9/11 that interoperability 
and communication between systems was an obstacle that was intolerable.

How could we allow this to happen and just let our veterans, who 
fought for us so valiantly, and the analogy I will make is while our 
troops might not come home, and thank good they are not coming home to 
the same reaction as our Vietnam veterans came home to, how is this not 
as bad? It is actually worse, in a way, because instead of just having 
to suffer the wrath of their fellow Americans, which was a travesty and 
certainly hurtful and harmful, instead they come home and suffer the 
wrath of their government, the benign wrath of their government. 
''Benign'' meaning not specifically intended to harm, but it is like 
death by a thousand cuts.