# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `7ddebb41acc9c64b1e13b67abb702611`
`Mr. INHOFE — 13 June 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I would like to go ahead and be 
recognized for a few minutes, and I would ask that the Chair stop me 
when there is 5 minutes remaining. I would like to remind the other 
side that our protocol or system is that the author of the amendment 
should conclude debate, so I would like to have the last 5 minutes.

First of all, I look at this and I listen to the arguments from the 
junior Senator from California and I hear the same things over and over 
again. Last night, we debated this at some length. Every time, she 
would make a statement, and we would respond to the statement.

Let me just put a chart up here. I think it is important for people 
to realize there are some choices. We are not willing to add to 
refinery capacity here in the United States. We have here the refining 
capacity and the growth of that refining capacity from other countries. 
We have Iran, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and 
Venezuela. It is bad enough we are dependent upon foreign sources for 
our ability to run this machine we call America, but these are not the 
kinds of countries you want to depend on. I am sure Chavez is not real 
excited about


helping us refine our oil into something that can be used for 
transportation.

I would like to cover a couple of the things the junior Senator from 
California has said, and I know what is going to happen: As soon as I 
do this, she will come back and say the same things over again, because 
we have heard these same arguments.

First of all, she says it is a disastrous amendment because it is a 
taxpayer giveaway to the oil companies; we don't have to give away the 
store to the oil companies. Well, the fact is that no money goes to any 
oil companies or, in fact, to any corporations in any way whatsoever. 
The only funding of the bill is financial and technical resources to a 
State or tribal department of environmental quality or funds to an 
economically distressed community affected by BRAC.

Let us keep in mind, when we talk about BRAC and Indian tribes, we 
have a lot of BRAC sites, and I can remember Members standing on the 
floor saying, during the base realignment and closure process: They are 
going to be closing some of the military installations in my State. 
Well, what is a logical thing you can do to replace the economic loss 
of a closed facility? It is to put--if we can encourage the local 
community to do it--a refinery there. You don't have to clean it up to 
the same standards you would have to clean it up otherwise. It is a 
logical thing. So those people who want coal-to-liquids and commercial-
scale cellulosic ethanol facilities can have them.

It does authorize the EPA to initiate a new emissions control 
demonstration project, but it doesn't offer the oil companies anything.

The lack of sufficient refinery capacity in the United States is why 
we are experiencing high prices today. I think it is inconceivable that 
any Member of this body would come in and deny us, the United States, 
the right to expand our refinery capacity to do something about the 
supply problem we have and then turn around and say: Well, we don't 
want to be dependent on foreign countries for our ability to run this 
machine called America.

In this bill, in the underlying Energy bill, without this amendment, 
we don't really address the problem today. We talk about the future, 
and we talk about conservation. This is good, and we want to do this. 
We talk about standards for automobiles and all that. But people in my 
State of Oklahoma want to do something about the $3 a gallon for 
gasoline right now that is there.