---
---

# ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
## `7df67e8331d937e37276cd640058bca6`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 24 June 2010`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my strong support for 
H.R. 2194, a powerful package of sanctions against Iran. These new 
measures increase pressure on Iran to do the right thing and put an end 
to its sponsorship of terrorism and its efforts to acquire nuclear 
weapons. I am pleased that the United States has worked with the United 
Nations to secure multilateral sanctions, but the United States should 
also be increasing pressure on Iran by implementing the sensible, 
targeted sanctions contained in this bill.

This conference report contains a package of sanctions that ups the 
ante on Iran's trading partners, making it clear that doing business 
with Iran has a price. It targets Iran's energy and banking sectors, 
and imposes sanctions on foreign companies that are supplying energy 
and know-how to Iran. It allows the government to restrict access to 
America for the purposes of banking, foreign exchange and property 
investment. It requires companies seeking procurement contracts to 
certify that they are not engaging in sanctionable conduct. The 
executive branch will have to report sanctionable activity and must 
either implement sanctions or waive them. Our sanctions will no longer 
be tough on paper and weak in implementation. Iran can secure an end to 
them at any time by ending its sponsorship of terrorism and by ending 
its quest to develop or acquire nuclear, biological, and chemical 
weapons and ballistic missiles and ballistic-missile launch technology.

Iran has shown, time and time again, that it is determined to acquire 
nuclear weapons. Earlier this week, Reuters reported that Iran has 
enriched 17 kilograms of uranium to 20 percent purity, and that this is 
a significant step toward the 90 percent enrichment required for 
weapons-grade uranium. In April, Iran unveiled a third generation of 
centrifuges and has indicated that the testing phase is nearly complete 
and that its scientists are working on a fourth generation. It is clear 
that Iran is racing toward its goal of becoming a nuclear nation.

Iran has also been one of the chief state sponsors of terrorism, 
sending funding, weapons and know-how to terrorist organizations like 
Hamas and Hezbollah. These organizations specifically target civilian 
populations and have no compunctions against lobbing missiles at homes, 
schools, hospitals and nursing homes. There are reports that Iran has 
backed militants in Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. Iran's 
leaders have also targeted their own people, viciously putting down the 
fledgling democratic movement last year and working to restrict 
communication among its own people. I am pleased that these sanctions 
specifically ban procurement contracts to any foreign company that 
exports to Iran technology used to restrict the free flow of 
information or to disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict freedom of 
speech. We must do everything we can to persuade Iran to change its 
reckless course.

A nuclear Iran will be dangerous for the entire world. Iran has been 
most outspoken in its threats against Israel, but Israel is not the 
only Middle Eastern nation with reason to fear a nuclear Iran. There is 
longstanding tension between Shi'ite Iran and its Sunni neighbors. Some 
argue--because Iran's President has threatened to wipe Israel off the 
map and Iran has provided weapons and resources to terrorist 
organizations that are actively trying to accomplish that aim--that 
America is acting solely to help Israel. And indeed, when Iran 
threatens to annihilate Israel, I think we should take it at its word, 
and should assume that it intends to use its nuclear weapons to turn 
its threat into a reality. But, these sanctions are also necessary 
because a nuclear Iran threatens all of its neighbors and it has been 
exporting terrorism to a wide range of nations around the globe.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the conference report 
for H.R. 2194, and in voting to increase pressure on Iran to turn from 
this dangerous path. These sanctions are a reasonable and necessary 
augmentation of existing restrictions and an additional means to put 
pressure on a state that seems intent on exporting terror and death 
throughout the world.