# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `7e030400e7a83eeb6db3b33a94329922`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Madam President, I wish to take 5 minutes and address some 
of the issues raised on the other side and speak briefly about the 
Graham set-aside.

First, Senator Kyl from Arizona read a communication from the 
administration expressing its disagreement with the approach Senator 
Hagel's amendment is taking. I would like to say, quite obviously, that 
one would expect the administration to object to rational acts that 
might be placing restraints--even proper restraints--on Executive 
authority.

A number of constitutional issues have been raised. There are no 
constitutional issues in this amendment--any more than they were in the 
amendment I offered earlier. This is a proper exercise of authority 
under article I, section 8 of the Constitution. In fact, to respond to 
what Senator Graham said, there have been Presidents who have allowed 
this congressional authority to take place. The most graphic example 
was President Truman during the Korean war, when American troops were 
being sent overseas without proper training, and the Congress passed a 
requirement that no troops could be sent overseas unless they had been 
trained for 120 days. That was the Congress taking measures to protect 
the well-being of troops being sent into


harm's way. We are doing essentially the same thing.

There was a comment about the difficulty that might be had in the 
military with respect to individual troop rotations versus unit-group 
rotations. This is simply not an issue. It has never been an issue. 
Every troop returning from a combat zone or in the military has in 
their record book the date they came back. There are a lot of 
individuals who have returned from deployments overseas who were being 
put in the units that were getting ready to deploy. That concept is 
called backfill. So you can have an individual who has only been back 
for a few months being put into a unit that arguably has been back for 
a year. That is not taking care of the individual.

There was a comment by Senator Graham about the Hagel amendment 
creating down-range constitutional issues--issues that might affect us 
in other wars. This is simply not true. If you read the amendment, it 
is limited to Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Finally, there have been comments about the attitude of the U.S. 
military. I think that poll after poll demonstrates that the attitudes 
of our people in military uniform are very directly a mirror of the 
attitudes of the people in the country at large. There is not that much 
of a distinction at all.

With respect to this amendment that has been offered, this side by 
side, clearly, it is being offered as cover for people who are going to 
vote against the Hagel amendment and who voted against the amendment I 
proposed. I urge my colleagues not to vote for it.

First of all, it is a sense of the Senate. It has no legal authority 
whatsoever. Second, the goals that are in this amendment are no 
different than current policy. So there is no sense in anyone who wants 
to attempt to help the people who are being sent into harm's way again 
and again with some reasonable timelines to vote for this. It is simply 
a statement of existing policy. If you agree with existing policy and 
you want to vote for a sense of the Senate, you may want to vote for 
this. I urge my colleagues not to.

With that, I yield the floor.