---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `7e09fa5d55c7259e69cb0cb873438362`
`Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, 1 month ago, we gathered in this 
Chamber to debate what was called a symbolic resolution on the war in 
Iraq. I never subscribed to the notion it was symbolic because I 
believe any official act of this body has consequences. When Members 
speak, the world listens, friends and enemies alike.

Two weeks ago after that vote, I traveled again to Iraq and 
Afghanistan to observe conditions in these two fronts on the global war 
on terror and to meet again with our soldiers. I was the only 
Republican on the trip, but I view opportunities like these to travel 
to war zones with colleagues from the other side of the aisle as 
invaluable.

We all saw that the plans to stabilize Baghdad by reinforcing U.S. 
troops and integrating them with larger Iraqi units around the city are 
already under way. Our military commanders in Iraq are already 
executing their plans to clear, hold, and build; and early reports 
point towards some progress.

And yet tomorrow, in fact, we vote on a bill, portions of which could 
potentially affect the safety of our brave young soldiers in Iraq, the 
lives of millions of Iraqis, and damage our national interest in the 
Middle East and elsewhere. That is why I oppose this bill in its 
current form.

Every Member of this House, Republican and Democrat alike, should be 
working together to achieve some level of success in Iraq and to give 
our soldiers the dollars they need. We should not be tying the hands of 
our battlefield commanders, nor undercutting our brave soldiers and 
marines as they work to secure the peace as we debate here this 
afternoon and tomorrow.

Make no mistake about it, withdrawal from Iraq before that peace is 
better secured will have wide and important ramifications. We could 
potentially have an explosion of sectarian violence in Iraq, killing 
and bloodshed on a larger, more barbaric scale. Al Qaeda and other 
jihadists could get a new and more dangerous base of operations. The 
influence of Iran would grow. The Saudis and moderate Arab states 
themselves could be threatened. Turkey, a strong NATO ally, could be 
drawn into the war. And Iraq's neighbors could see even more waves of 
refugees.

Mr. Speaker, we are a Nation at war, and the stakes are extremely 
high for America. Our troops need this money now. They deserved it 
yesterday. But the Congress has decided to make them compete with 
nonmilitary, nonemergency, politically motivated spending.

We must give our commanders on the battlefield, and our brave young 
war fighters, the resources they need to protect themselves and fight 
the enemy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join together to honor the 
service of these young men and women and to find a way forward in Iraq 
that protects our Nation and results in a stable Iraq that can govern 
and protect itself.