---
---

# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST
## `7e12b4e34da1d538e0e73a63919ad9e0`
`Mr. DURBIN — 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I would like to ask the Senator from Nevada the following 
question: If I follow the inquiry of the Senator from Arizona, it leads 
me to this conclusion--and let me add my voice in chorus commending his 
service to our country and commending his courage. I share the 
admiration, and I mean it sincerely, I say to the Senator from Arizona. 
But his argument goes something like this: If you are not loyal to the 
policies of the Commander in Chief, then you are not loyal to the 
troops. If you are not prepared to say you will stand behind the 
policy, the military policy of the President, whether you agree with it 
or not, then you do not respect the troops and don't have confidence in 
the troops. Nothing is further from the truth.

I ask the Senator from Nevada, does he think it is possible to 
disagree with the President's policies and still be loyal to the 
troops? Is it possible to say the President was wrong in not bringing 
more countries in as allies in this conflict before we invaded and 
still be loyal to the troops? Is it possible to say we didn't send 
enough soldiers when we should have and still be loyal to the troops? 
Is it possible to say disbanding the Army of Iraq was a bad decision 
and still be loyal to America's troops? Is it possible to say the 
situation that is grave and deteriorating in Iraq is evidence of a need 
for a new direction and still be loyal to the troops?

I just don't buy the premise by the Senator from Arizona that if you 
question the policy of the President, somehow you are disloyal to the 
soldiers. They are the ones following orders from the Commander in 
Chief. We have a special obligation to them--I think a loyalty to 
them--far and beyond any Chief Executive.

I would ask the Senator from Nevada if he believes you can be loyal 
to the troops and still disagree with the President?