---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `7e1d80aa58435ac025c87c5c99d16297`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 5 November 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to speak, briefly, in 
support of Senator Graham's amendment dealing with the trial of 9/11 
terrorists in Federal court. It, in effect, would prohibit the 
administration from doing that by denying funding for any such trials.

This is a very important matter. One of the things we learned when 9/
11 occurred was that this country had made a mistake in treating people 
who are at war with the United States, who attempt to destroy the 
United States, as normal criminals and that they should be tried in 
court.

We learned the only effective way to deal with persons such as that 
is to treat them as prisoners of war or unlawful combatants, who are 
people who violate the rules of war--and all these individuals do, 
basically, with the way they conduct themselves. So we would try them 
according to military commissions. The Constitution makes reference to 
military commissions. They can be tried fairly in that method without 
all the rules and procedures we cherish so highly in Federal courts for 
the trials of normal crimes that people are accused of in this country.

I spoke about al-Marri just last week, who came to the United States 
on September 10. He had met bin Laden. He had been to a training camp 
in Afghanistan. He had a goal, pretty clearly, to participate in an 
attack on the United States. He seemed to be a part of that entire 
effort. He came 1 day before 9/11. He was tried by a Federal judge who 
apparently gave a conviction but sentenced him to, in effect, 7 years. 
He had training in bomb making and that kind of thing. He had done 
other acts that indicated an intent to kill American people, innocent 
civilians, in a surreptitious way, contrary to the laws of war. So as a 
result of that, I think he should have been tried by a military 
commission, and he was not.

As one of the professors said in commenting on this case, it raises 
questions about the ability of our normal Federal court system to try 
these people who may be subject to having the courthouse attacked in an 
attempt to free them. Jurors may feel threatened because they are 
willing to kill to promote their agenda--or their allies are. 
Courthouses have to be armed with guards all around and with people on 
top of the courthouse to protect the courthouse throughout the trial.

They can be tried effectively by military commissions. So Senator 
Graham is serving the national interest in raising this issue. It is 
not a little bitty matter. It is correct. He has a good idea about it. 
He has focused it narrowly on the 9/11 issue and on those who 
participated in that attack. I think that is at least what we should do 
today.

We need to have a sincere analysis of the determination by this 
administration to try more and more cases in Federal court when they 
have been


captured by the military. In fact, they say there is a presumption in 
their commission report to date that they would be tried in Federal 
courts rather than military commissions. I think that is very dangerous 
because military people do not give them Miranda warnings when they are 
arrested. They do not do the kinds of things that are necessary to 
maintain change of custody or to admit evidence into trials in a way we 
would normally do. These kinds of procedures could cause a trial to be 
extremely difficult. They could bring witnesses from the battlefield 
and the like.

It is not the way, I am aware, any country tries people who are at 
war with them--any country. All countries provide for military 
commissions against unlawful combatants.

I see my friend, Senator Chambliss, in the Chamber. I know he wants 
to speak on this issue.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.