# None
## `7e2a3331387711a1772c259e8f6bb21b`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Meek is very right. It is 
going to be in a bipartisan way. And there are moments when maybe 
public opinion and things you hear back in the district don't always 
match up with maybe the things that you hear from the experts on that 
particular issue. That is inevitable in public service. And there are 
choices to be made, and inevitably your obligation in the end is to 
side with the people that you represent.

But on this issue there is a growing hegemony of opinion that backs 
up public opinion within the military community. Mr. Meek quoted some 
of the leaders of both parties who have come out against this plan for 
escalation, but the military has come out against this plan as well.

Let me just give a quick quote of Colonel Paul Hughes, who was the 
first person that was put in charge of strategic planning of the U.S. 
occupation in Baghdad, the first person on the ground to start planning 
on how we were going to keep Baghdad stable. We obviously failed pretty 
miserably in that mission, but here is what he said about the 
President's plan to escalate this war. He said: ''Just sending more 
troops to Baghdad is like pouring more water in the sands of Al Anbar. 
It's going to disappear without accomplishing anything.''

And that is what we have heard over and over again. There may be a 
number of troops that you could put into Baghdad or, lest we forget, 
the 12 other, 11 other major areas of conflict in Iraq. There might be 
a number, but it certainly isn't 21,000. And the President in his 
speech talked about not only using those troops to secure Baghdad but 
also using them to secure Al Anbar Province, also trying to do 
increased training, also trying to better secure the borders around 
Iraq to prevent the insurgents from coming in. Twenty-one thousand 
troops can't do that, and what ends up happening, as many of our 
military experts have told us over and over again, is it just puts 
those men and women in even graver danger. That is an opinion shared 
not just by Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle but by the 
military community as well.

And Mr. Meek talked about the oversight that is going to happen here 
in terms of our strategy going forward. And I think that these hearings 
have been so valuable because I think they educate the American public 
and educate all of us about our options going forward. But the 
oversight also has to be about how we conduct ourselves so far, because 
if there was any faith in our ability to manage this war and manage the 
reconstruction, then maybe we would look a little bit differently upon 
the President's proposal.

But the fact is, and this number startled me, we have $8.8 billion of 
money, Mr. Meek, of money that is unaccounted for by the Coalition 
Provisional Authority, $8.8 billion that we can't even explain where it 
went. That is about enough money to run the State of Connecticut for an 
entire year. And that is not the money we spent; that is the money we 
can't find anymore.

Mr. Meek served on the Armed Services Committee. I am going to get 
the opportunity to serve on the Government Reform Committee under Mr. 
Waxman of California, and our focus there is going to be on that waste, 
fraud, and abuse that has happened within our military spending in 
Iraq. And it is important not just because of taxpayer dollars and 
because we were all sent here to make sure that every hard-earned 
dollar that our taxpayers send to Washington gets spent effectively, 
but it is important because it educates us on the inefficiency and the 
blundering in a lot of places that has happened in the conduct of this 
war and the conduct of the reconstruction. And there are a myriad of 
reasons why we should start listening to people like Mr. Murtha and 
others who are counseling us to redeploy our forces and to 
significantly draw down the number of troops we have there very soon. 
There are a number of reasons why we should take those arguments 
seriously and why many of us support bringing a large number of our 
troops home very soon.

But at the top of that list is the fact that the money we are 
spending there, even beyond the philosophy, just when you are talking 
about the money, the money isn't being spent to make that country 
safer, to rebuild that country. That money is being lost, and as you 
said, Mr. Meek, through the Speaker, much of that money we are now 
finding out actually finds its way into the hands of the very people 
that we are fighting in Iraq. We can't account for it, and thus it 
finds its way into the hands of the insurgents who are attacking the 
convoys, who are taking the oil that is being produced there, and are, 
in fact, using our own money to fight our own efforts there. So it is 
our obligation, Mr. Meek, as you have said, not only to investigate, 
not only to hold hearings into the strategy and the conduct of our 
military operations but also to ask some questions about how all of our 
taxpayer dollars are being spent there, because I think we are going to 
find some very interesting things as we go forward in the next few 
weeks.