---
---

# None
## `7e2b55b0d8761bc8d7d22d3f4adb4b6d`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. I come to the floor this evening to speak on behalf of 
the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act embodied in S. 1315. This 
legislation passed the Veterans' Affairs Committee in August of 2007. I 
know the work that goes on in that committee because I served on that 
committee with Senator Akaka and many Members. It is an important 
tradition that committee has worked in a bipartisan spirit to make sure 
the United States honors the debt we owe to our veterans, some 25 
million veterans in America and 1.4 million, 1.5 million veterans of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. It is through 
that committee that legislation emerges to make sure the promise this 
Nation makes to its veterans is a promise we keep.

In my view, the fact that so much time has passed since S. 1315 came 
out of the Veterans' Affairs Committee in August 2007 until we have it 
today on the floor is, frankly, inexcusable. At the end of the day, the 
committee worked to put together legislation to better serve the 
Nation's veterans.

The legislation before us does some very important things. It expands 
eligibility for traumatic injury insurance. That is very important, 
especially today when we see the kind of trauma and injuries our 
veterans are facing coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan. We have now 
over 30,000 veterans who have been grievously wounded in that war. I 
know most of my colleagues have been to Walter Reed or to veterans 
hospitals where they have seen the kind of wounds our veterans are 
experiencing because of explosions of IEDs and other kinds of attacks 
made on our troops. The expansion of traumatic injury insurance is 
important for our men and women who serve.

The bill also extends the eligibility for specially adapted housing 
units to veterans with severe burns. I know in my visits to those who 
have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, I have seen many who are in 
burn units who have suffered the scars of this war. This benefit for 
housing units that are specially adapted for those who are suffering 
burn injuries is a very important provision in this legislation that 
will be part of our efforts to make sure we are providing support to 
our veterans who have served.

This legislation is also important because it increases benefits for 
veterans pursuing apprenticeships or on-the-job training programs. 
Across the country and in my State of Colorado, we know there are many 
veterans who are unemployed. In fact, in most States, about half of the 
homeless population comes from the veterans ranks. So providing on-the-
job training opportunity for these veterans is important. This 
legislation does that.

For all of the good things this legislation does, we could have taken 
it through this Chamber, through the House of Representatives, and to 
the President's desk, and we could have had that legislation already in 
law. We could have the framework of a law now honoring the veterans of 
America in the way they should be honored. Yet because of one provision 
of this legislation, it has been held up not 1 month, 2 months, but 
since August of 2007, to the point where today it is already April of 
2008, and we are on the floor of the Senate trying to break a 
filibuster over legislation that is supposed to provide a benefit to 
our veterans in important ways.

The provision which some on the other side have objected to--not all 
of them but some of them--has to do with the treatment of Filipino 
veterans during World War II. I join, proudly, my colleagues--Senator 
Inouye and Senator Stevens--in support of the legislation that would 
restore the benefits to Filipino veterans by granting them full 
veterans' status for the sacrifices they made during World War II.

Over the last half century, the treatment of Filipino World War II 
veterans, in my view, has been a stain on our national honor.

The Philippines became a possession of the United States in 1898, 
when it was ceded by Spain following the Spanish-American War. During 
that time period, and for the following 60-some years, the United 
States essentially controlled the territory and the people of the 
Philippines.

It was in 1934, then, that the Congress enacted the Philippine 
Independence Act. That provided a 10-year timeframe for the 
independence of the Philippines. But it was during that 10-year 
timeframe, when the Philippines essentially were in a commonwealth 
status relationship to the United States of America, that the clouds of 
war and the horrific war of World War II beset the entire globe.

Between 1934 and 1946, the United States retained powers over the 
Philippines, including the right as a government to call the military 
forces organized by the Commonwealth Government into the services of 
the Armed Forces of the United States.

On July 26, 1941, President Franklin Roosevelt issued a military 
order calling on the Commonwealth Army of the Philippines to serve with 
the Armed Forces of the United States in the Far East.

The Filipinos who served were entitled to full veterans' benefits by 
reason of their service under the command of our Armed Forces.

Of the 470,000--that is 470,000; that is nearly half a million--
Filipino veterans who volunteered, approximately 200,000 served in the 
Philippine Commonwealth Army, the Philippine Army Air Corps, and the 
Philippine Army Offshore Patrol--all under the command of the United 
States of America and our military.

We, I believe, in America cannot forget the sacrifice of our Filipino 
friends who fought side by side with American soldiers in World War II.

They constituted the vast majority of the 80,000 soldiers who 
defended the Bataan Peninsula against the Japanese invasion.

They constituted the vast majority--the vast majority--of the 
soldiers who were forced on the Bataan Death March.

They fought side by side with American soldiers to defend Corregidor 
in 1942.

They fought as guerrillas after the Japanese captured the 
Philippines.

They worked behind enemy lines to provide intelligence to the 
American Army. More than half the battalion that was tasked with 
providing intelligence from the occupied Philippines later received the 
Bronze Star for their heroic service.

When President Roosevelt signed a bill for the Filipinos to enlist in 
the U.S. Army, the Army stood up two entirely new regiments--the 1st 
and 2nd Filipino Infantry Regiments.

The 1st and 2nd Filipino Infantry Regiments participated in the 
bloody combat and mop-up operations at New Guinea, Leyte, Samar, Luzon, 
and other major battles in the Philippines.

Members of the 1st Regiment were also attached to the U.S. 6th Army, 
and they were working often behind enemy lines to help free the Allied 
prisoners from the death camps in 1945.

In my view, the Filipinos who served in World War II were entitled to 
full veterans' benefits by reason of their service with our Armed 
Forces. Despite all their sacrifices--despite all their sacrifices--
after the war was over, after the Philippines gained officially their 
independence, the Congress passed the Rescissions Act of 1946, now 
codified in our U.S. law.

The 1946 act precluded most of the Filipino World War II veterans 
from receiving veterans' benefits that were available to them prior to 
1946 and that are available to all other veterans of


our Armed Forces today regardless of race, national origin or 
citizenship status.

S. 1315, today, would restore veterans status to those World War II 
heroes and, in particular, it would provide pension benefits to aid 
Filipino veterans residing in the Philippines during their twilight 
years.

The pension benefits under S. 1315 would amount to less than one-
third--to less than one-third--of the basic pension amount provided to 
veterans living in the United States of America today. The average 
income of persons residing in the Philippines, however, is considerably 
lower than their counterparts in the United States. So the pension 
benefits under S. 1315 would provide a decent standard of living to 
these veterans.

Our Nation cannot abandon those who have served under our flag and 
who have served under our command. We must rally in support of these 
proven friends of America and act to redeem our Nation's debt in honor 
of their service.

I urge my colleagues to support S. 1315 in its entirety, and to 
support granting the benefits that the Filipino veterans from World War 
II, in my view, have earned.