# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `7e3388b835731d0b38de04ecb50668c8`
`Mr. DREIER — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from New York, the 
distinguished Chair on the Committee of Rules for yielding me the time, 
and I yield myself such time as I might consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in the strongest possible opposition to this rule 
and the underlying legislation. I could start this debate by quoting my 
Democratic colleagues on the Rules Committee when they decried 
Republican tactics over the last few years, how they railed against 
closed rules and chided me personally. I am a big guy, I can handle it. 
But they attacked me personally constantly for denying amendments that 
were offered by both Democrats and Republicans. I could quote every 
instance that they promised to do better, to have the most open and 
fair Congress in the history of this country, and to not have late-
night meetings. But today, Mr. Speaker, I am not going to do that. I am 
going to recognize that that would simply distract from this very, very 
important issue. Instead, I


am going to simply provide the House, Mr. Speaker, and you witnessed 
much of this last night, with a factual account of what took place in 
the wee hours of this morning.

Shortly before 1 a.m., the Rules Committee on party-line votes 
reported out two self-executing closed rules, and denied the 
consideration of some 70 amendments submitted to the Rules Committee 
from both Republicans and Democrats as well. That is what happened. 
There is no denying it. You, Mr. Speaker, witnessed it yourself when 
you were upstairs in the Rules Committee.

So regardless of the process, this supplemental appropriations bill 
is a constitutionally dubious attempt at micromanaging the Iraq war 
into what I believe would be inevitable defeat if it succeeds. It 
enjoys such limited support on the other side of the aisle that it had 
to be ladened with unrelated pork in order to win enough votes to have 
any hope of passing. It is a cynical ploy that will leave dire 
consequences for the region, and for our own security, in its wake.

The Constitution lays out a very clear system of checks and balances 
derived from the ideas of the Framers of our Constitution. By giving 
the three branches of government distinct roles, we guard ourselves 
against tyranny; we guard ourselves as individuals against tyranny in 
each branch.

The President cannot wage war without authorization or funding from 
Congress. But if authorization and funding are granted, the President 
serves as the Commander in Chief with the authority to execute the war.

Mr. Speaker, this bill ignores the intentions of those Framers, and 
it attempts to turn the Constitution on its head. James Madison, Father 
of the Constitution, the author of the Constitution in Federalist No. 
51, wrote, and I quote, ''In framing a government that is to be 
administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this: You 
must first enable the government to control the governed, and in the 
next place oblige it to control itself.''

Mr. Speaker, Madison recognized the inherent challenges in designing 
a government that is both effective and limited. He knew that, without 
checks and balances, tyranny would, in fact, ensue.

This bill attempts to diminish these checks and balances. It tries to 
turn Congress into a collection of 535 Commanders in Chief. This 
legislation of micromanagement is based on a disastrous strategy. Its 
authors fund the war, and then mandate its failure. They seek to tie 
the hands of our military commanders, and then force them to retreat 
when they are unable to meet impossible timetables. They mandate the 
withdrawal with no regard for the situation on the ground, and then 
they sweeten the deal with $15 billion in money that is unrelated 
spending that has got a little something in there for practically 
everyone: $283 million for the milk income lost contract program; $74 
million for peanut storage costs; $1.3 billion for the Army Corps of 
Engineers. Billions and billions of dollars for these projects, some 
worthy, some not.



But none of them related to the troops, and what this is, this is a 
war funding supplemental. None of these are emergency items.

Their only connection to emergency supplemental appropriations for 
the war, Mr. Speaker, in Iraq, is that they are necessary to build 
support for this bill, a bill that trades victory for electoral gains. 
Make no mistake, this legislation is a political solution for 
Democrats, not a strategy for winning in Iraq.

And what would the consequences of defeat be? The National 
Intelligence Estimate, the 9/11 Commission, and our people on the 
ground have all made it very clear that a precipitous withdrawal would 
have catastrophic consequences. The carnage of the battle of Baghdad 
that we are witnessing today will be just the beginning. Violence will 
spill out across the country and spread to the entire region.

In our absence, Iran and Syria will be utterly unfettered in their 
ability to incite a regional war that threatens global security, with 
enormous casualties suffered by the people of the region.

Proponents of a policy of defeat often point to our diminished 
standing in the international community. But what about our standing 
with the Iraqi people? Terrorist attacks on our own soil have 
demonstrated that our security and their security are directly linked.

And, Mr. Speaker, Operation Iraqi Freedom has bound us even more 
closely. We have a commitment to help the Iraqi people establish 
lasting security through democracy. We have a commitment not to abandon 
them to be slaughtered by terrorists.

And if we retreat, we not only abandon the Iraqi people, we draw 
terrorism back to our own doorstep. Have we so soon forgotten the 
tragedy of attacks on our homeland?

We took the war on terror to the terrorists and have suffered not one 
attack since September 11 of 2001.

With this bill, we would bring the war on terror back home. Only this 
time we will have strengthened the terrorists ourselves with a road map 
for success. We will have demonstrated precisely what it takes to 
defeat the United States of America. We will have clearly signaled to 
them that they must simply bide their time until the mandated retreat, 
at which time they will be able to terrorize with impunity.

I, like many Americans, Mr. Speaker, have been discouraged by this 
war. We all feel the toll that it has taken. And we are keenly aware of 
the price that we are paying, especially in a human sense. Every one of 
my colleagues, Mr. Speaker, has, as I have, looked in the faces of 
constituents whose family and friends have made the ultimate sacrifice 
in this war. Their pain is very real, and their loss is profound.

I regularly talk to a man called Ed Blecksmith whose son J.P. was 
tragically killed 2 years ago this past November in the very famous 
battle of Fallujah. And he has, time and time again, said to me, if we 
don't complete this mission, my son J.P. will have died in vain.

But we do not honor those who have sacrificed by abandoning their 
mission. We do not honor those in the field who are fighting, as we 
speak, by tying their hands and depriving them of the means to succeed. 
We will honor them by winning the war in Iraq so that our men and women 
come home having completed their mission.

We know that their mission will not be complete in the immediate 
future. As President Bush and General David Petraeus have both 
acknowledged, success will take months, not days or weeks. But there 
are signs of hope that the President's new plans, under General 
Petraeus, are working.

As Brian Williams of NBC reported from the field in Iraq, he said, 
''This change in policy, getting out, decentralizing, going into the 
neighborhoods, grabbing a toehold, telling the enemy we are here, 
talking to the locals, that is having an obvious and palpable effect. 
There are hopeful signs.'' That was said by the NBC news anchor, Brian 
Williams.

Mr. Speaker, to abandon our mission now would be disastrous. I urge 
my colleagues to reject the policy of defeat, reject the return of 
terrorism to our homeland, and reject this unconstitutional power grab 
whose sole purpose is to cede victory to our enemies.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.