# None
## `7e35a7b669eef964d673aeab0daf5da7`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 1 April 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support 
of H. Res. 1021, expressing support for the goals, ideals, and history 
of National Women's History Month. I would like to thank my friend and 
colleague, Congresswoman Woolsey, for introducing this legislation, 
which I am proud to cosponsor. Let me also thank the chairman of the 
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Chairman Waxman, for 
bringing this resolution before us today.

The purpose of National Women's History Month is to increase 
awareness and knowledge of women's involvement in history. I strongly 
believe that it is vital to honor the originality, beauty, imagination, 
and multiple dimensions of women's lives. As recently as the 1970s, 
women's history was rarely taught in schools, and was not part of 
public awareness. To address this situation, the Education Task Force 
of the Sonoma County, California, Commission on the Status of Women 
initiated a ''Women's History Week'' celebration for 1978. In 1981, in 
response to the growing popularity of women's history celebrations, 
Congress passed a resolution making Women's History Week a national 
observance. Within a few years, thousands of schools and communities 
across the country were celebrating National Women's History Week.

The popularity of women's history celebrations has sparked a new 
interest in uncovering women's forgotten heritage. Under the guidance 
of the National Women's History Project, educators, workplace program 
planners, parents and community organizations in thousands of American 
communities have turned National Women's History Month into a major 
celebration and a springboard for celebrating women's history all year 
round.

Mr. Speaker, in the early days of our great Nation, women were 
relegated to second class status. Women were considered sub-sets of 
their husbands, and after marriage they did not have the right to own 
property, maintain their wages, or sign a contract, much less vote. It 
was expected that women be obedient wives, never to hold a thought or 
opinion independent of their husbands. It was considered improper for 
women to travel alone or to speak in public.

The fight for women's suffrage was formally begun in 1848, and, in 
1919, after years of petitioning, picketing, and protest parades, the 
19th amendment was passed by both Houses of Congress; it was ratified 
the following year.

However, the right to vote did not give women equal rights, and 
subsequent decades saw an ongoing struggle for equality. A major 
success came with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. This 
law, enacted in June 1972, states ''No person in the United States 
shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be 
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any 
education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.''

Title XI, introduced by Congresswoman Patsy Mink, also notable as the 
first Asian American woman elected to Congress, has opened countless 
doors to educational activities, perhaps most prominently including 
high


school and collegiate athletics, to women. Congresswoman Mink's legacy 
lives on as, each year, hundreds of women across the Nation participate 
in NCAA athletics, learn teamwork and perseverance, earn scholarships 
enabling them to study at college, and enjoy equal footing with men in 
the academic arena.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to pay tribute to the women, local heroes, of 
my district. Women like Ramona Tolliver, long time Fifth Ward resident, 
former precinct chair, founding board member of Fifth Ward Community 
Redevelopment Corporation, member of Our Mother of Mercy Catholic 
Church, and member of the Metropolitan Organization, who is still 
actively advocating for her community. Women like Nellie Joyce Punch, 
long time Fifth Ward resident, retired educator at Phyllis Wheatley 
High School, former precinct chair, founding board member of Fifth Ward 
Community Redevelopment Corporation, member of the Methodist Church, 
also actively working on behalf of her community. Both Ms. Tolliver and 
Ms. Punch are active in Houston's Fifth Ward, where they act as the 
conscience for the community, calling for change and actively working 
to better our city.

Women like Dr. Charlesetta Deason, principal of Houston's DeBakey 
High School for Health Professions. Dr. Deason helms a school that 
offers students interested in science and health careers an alternative 
to the traditional high school experience, located in the renowned 
Texas Medical Center and boasting an ethnically diverse faculty and an 
excellent introductory study of medicine.

Or women like Harris County Commissioner Sylvia Garcia, the first 
Hispanic and first woman to be elected in her own right to the office. 
Commissioner Garcia is active in the Houston community, and she has 
served on more than 25 community boards and commissions, including the 
San Jacinto Girl Scouts, the Houston Hispanic Forum, the American 
Leadership Forum, the Texas Southern University Foundation, and the 
Institute of Hispanic Culture.


As a Nation, we have come a long way toward recognizing the important 
role women play, not only in our local communities, but in our Nation 
as a whole. Since 1917, when Representative Jeannette Rankin of Montana 
became the first woman to serve in Congress, 243 more women have served 
as U.S. Representatives or Senators. In 1968, Shirley Chisholm became 
the first African American woman elected to Congress; I am now proud to 
be one of 13 African American women serving in this body.

In addition, we are now, for the first time, under the leadership of 
a woman Speaker of the House. Speaker Pelosi has led this Democratic 
Congress in a new direction, listening to the will of the American 
people, as it was clearly expressed last November.

Mr. Speaker, the great tragedy of women's history is that, many 
times, the history of women is not written down. Too often, throughout 
the course of history, the contributions of women have gone unrecorded, 
unheralded, and are now forgotten. And so, Mr. Speaker, during Women's 
History Month, we do not stand here only to remember the Eleanor 
Roosevelts, Harriet Tubmans, and Rosa Parks, women who are now 
celebrated in our schools and history books, but also the millions of 
female unsung heroes who built this Nation, and who made it truly 
great.

I would like to pay special tribute to women, mothers, and 
grandmothers across the country. In particular, I would like to draw 
attention to the growing phenomenon of grandparents raising children. 
As of 1996, 4 million children were being raised by their grandparents, 
and statistics published the following year indicated that more than 
one-tenth of all grandparents provided the primary care for their 
grandchildren for at least 6 months and typically much longer. These 
numbers continue to grow, and these grandparents, generally ineligible 
for financial or social support, often suffer greatly to provide a safe 
and loving home for these children.

In addition, Mr. Speaker, we pay tribute to the brave women who serve 
proudly in our Nation's military. We have come a long way since the 
first American woman soldier, Deborah Sampson of Massachusetts, who 
enlisted as a Continental Army soldier under the name of ''Robert 
Shurtlief.'' Women served with distinction in World War II: 350,000 
American women served during World War II, and 16 were killed in 
action. In total, they gained over 1,500 medals, citations, and 
commendations. In December 1989, CPT Linda L. Bray, 29, became the 
first woman to command American soldiers in battle, during the invasion 
of Panama.

The war in Iraq marks the first time in American history that a 
substantial number of the combat wounded are women. 350,000 women are 
serving in the U.S. military--almost 15 percent of active duty 
personnel, and one in every seven troops in Iraq is a woman. Women play 
a role in nearly all types of military operation, and they have time 
and time again demonstrated extreme bravery, courage, and patriotism.

I would particularly like to honor one of our heroic daughters: Army 
SPC Monica L. Brown. Brown is the first woman in Afghanistan and only 
the second female soldier since World War II to receive the Silver 
Star, the Nation's third-highest medal for valor. Army SPC Monica Brown 
was part of a four-vehicle convoy patrolling near Jani Kheil in the 
eastern province of Paktia on April 25, 2007, when a bomb struck one of 
the Humvees. After the explosion, in which five soldiers in her unit 
were wounded, Brown ran through insurgent gunfire and used her body to 
shield wounded comrades as mortars fell less than 100 yards away. Army 
Specialist Brown, a native Texan, represents the best of our Nation's 
fighting men and women, and she clearly demonstrates that the admirable 
qualities of patriotism, valor, and courage know no gender.

Mr. Speaker, Women's History Month is an opportunity for all 
Americans to reflect on the women who have built, strengthened, and 
maintained this great Nation. Women who have often gone unrecognized 
and unheralded for their great achievements, sacrifices, and 
contributions. I ask my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to the 
women in their communities, in their families, and in their lives.

I, along with the residents of the 18th Congressional District of 
Texas, recognize the unique contributions of women throughout the 
course of American history. I ask my colleagues to join me in 
supporting this resolution.