---
---

# NATIONAL SECURITY AND DEPENDENCE ON OIL
## `7e3dea9044d89ebf7bedcd918a234837`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Garamendi, thank you for having this 
Special Order. We in Virginia--not all of us, but many of us--watch 
with sadness at what happened to the California shores, and we don't 
want it repeated in Virginia. Even though the Governor and the 
Republican Party have pushed and pushed with these silly mantras, 
Drill, baby, drill, and Drill here, and drill everywhere, we're not 
going to let it happen. If we had not been diligent, we might have some 
drilling rigs off the shore of Virginia today, but we don't. And 
they're not going to go there until there is substantial modification 
of the industry practices with regard to offshore drilling.

Let's bear in mind that what we are talking about is our Nation's 
oil. It's not oil that's owned by these oil companies or by the private 
sector. It's owned by us, the taxpayer. It's public land. It's owned by 
our children and our grandchildren. And instead of being put to our 
benefit and their benefit, because of neglect, carelessness, 
irresponsible decisions, it is destroying the ecology of the gulf and 
could well destroy the ecology of the Everglades along the Florida 
shore, and could even go up the east coast. We have no idea how 
extensive this damage is going to be, nor how expensive it will be to 
clean it up. But we're now getting an idea of why it happened.


And I would say to the gentleman and to the Speaker that we ought to 
be mindful, first of all, that this was not under President Obama's 
watch. It was not under any kind of Democratic policy. It was under the 
administration of a President who owned an oil drilling company, an oil 
exploration company, a Vice President who was the CEO of Halliburton, 
who made money from manufacturing and installing drilling rigs--in 
fact, continued to own thousands of shares of Halliburton while they 
made enormous profits not only from drilling rigs but from the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. So while these two folks sit back, the damage is 
being inflicted upon people who bore no fault but, in fact, became 
dependent upon this industry. And our hearts go out not just to those 
who lost their lives but to those who have lost their livelihoods.

Now, when we trace back how this particular drilling rig exploded, we 
find that there were a number of points along the way where it could 
have been avoided. Back in 2003, the Interior Department--the Bush 
administration's Interior Department--agreed with BP and other oil 
companies that installing a $500,000 acoustical shutoff switch on every 
offshore rig would be unreasonably expensive, even though such a 
shutoff switch would have prevented all of this oil from spewing out. 
Now it's costing BP billions of dollars. It's costing our country 
billions of dollars in tourism, to the fishing industry, and it's 
costing the lives of thousands and thousands of people because they cut 
corners. They weren't even willing to spend $500,000--a half million 
dollars on a shutoff switch.

And then they feel badly. They think they are being beaten up on by 
the Congress. Well, let me share some of the reasons why they've lost 
their credibility. For one, they started out telling us that it was 
about 1,000 barrels a day that were leaking. I think the gentleman will 
remember that. Of course there are 42 gallons in a barrel, which would 
mean that every day, about 200,000 gallons of oil were being emitted. 
Well, it wasn't 1,000. Then they went up to 5,000, which means that--
well, with 5,000 instead of 42,000 gallons of oil a day, it was 
210,000. But the 5,000, even though the scientists at the Minerals 
Management Service say, We think it's much larger than this, the 
scientists continued to be ignored. And now we find that every second, 
18 gallons of oil is being emitted from this spill.

Now, think about that. Most of us, to fill our tank, the gas tank in 
our car, it takes about 18 gallons. All of that is going out into the 
gulf every second, which means that we've got more than 1,000 a minute. 
We've got 65,000 gallons an hour, and we have 1.6 million gallons every 
day. It's hard for the mind to comprehend that, but 1.6 million gallons 
of oil is coming out into the gulf every day. And this has gone on for, 
what, 50 days.

Now, what has to happen in the future is there needs to be a time-
out. No more deepwater drilling until, number one, we have the 
technology on hand. The Minerals Management Service has been assured 
that this cannot happen again.



We had a 30-day open window when they had the ability to determine 
whether permits should be issued. Under the Bush administration, it was 
automatic. They didn't take any of that time.

But in the future, we need trained personnel. We need tested 
equipment. We need all of the technology to be on hand. And all of that 
research that should have been done, it needs to be paid for by the oil 
companies. The taxpayers shouldn't have to pay for that research. The 
taxpayers shouldn't have to pay for the training. And the taxpayers, 
obviously, shouldn't pay for the equipment. All of it needs to be 
tested because it is the taxpayers' oil. It is the taxpayers' land, and 
it has been exploited and a lot of people have made billions of dollars 
by drilling off our land, drilling the oil that really belongs to our 
children and grandchildren.

Well, it is time to put a stop to this. As far as I am concerned, 
there should be a moratorium until we can assure the American public 
and our children and grandchildren that this can't happen again because 
the government is going to be the sheriff in the future. The Obama 
administration is going to put in the people that care about our 
environment that are going to regulate this oil drilling and are going 
to ensure that this kind of catastrophe never happens again because we 
are not going to show the kind of negligence and greed that drove this 
situation to occur.

So I thank you, Mr. Garamendi. Again, let me conclude by ending where 
I started, that we feel bad for what happened to California. We feel 
worse for what is now the worst ecological disaster in the gulf, but we 
have to make sure that we learn from this and we never, ever let 
something like this happen again.