---
---

# None
## `7e3fb388029bf6b613df35177de8b665`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 13 February 2008`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, this is a moment that I had hoped would 
never come. I am rising for the 250th time to oppose the occupation of 
Iraq. It's a sad task, because 250 times means that the occupation has 
dragged on and on nearly 5 years.

I had hoped that my first speech would be my last, or my 50th or even 
my 100th, but the administration continued to follow its blind and 
destructive path year after year. As the saying goes, ''All that is 
necessary for evil to triumph is that good people do nothing.''

So, to be sure, I have raised my voice time and time again on this 
floor to protest the administration's folly and hold it accountable for 
its reckless actions and its reckless policies.

The American people have raised their voices, also, Mr. Speaker. They 
have said that they want an end to this occupation and a responsible 
redeployment of our troops. But our leaders in the White House, who 
first turned a deaf ear to the people of the world when they invaded 
Iraq, continue to turn a deaf ear to their very own people in the 
United States of America.

What makes this occasion even sadder for me is that I will have to 
rise many more times before the occupation ends because the 
administration has made it absolutely clear that it will continue its 
occupation right to the bitter end of its term in office.

And I fear that the occupation may go on long after that. A leading 
Republican Presidential candidate said that he has no problem with the 
occupation lasting 100 years. No problem. And this same candidate said 
the other day, and


I quote, ''There's going to be other wars.'' This is exactly the kind 
of ''shoot-first, ask-questions-later'' thinking that got us into 
trouble in Iraq in the first place.

Fortunately, the Democratic Presidential candidates have a different 
mindset, a mindset that uses diplomacy and international cooperation to 
solve problems, not war. But the current administration is working hard 
to tie the hands of the very next President. It's negotiating to 
establish permanent bases in Iraq. And it is planning to keep troop 
levels absolutely as high as possible.

Remember all the sweet talk, Mr. Speaker, last September about 
possible troop cuts? It was an absolute sham. And what are we getting 
for the tragedy of Iraq? Are we any safer? Absolutely not. In fact, the 
director of National Intelligence has warned that al Qaeda is getting 
stronger in its cozy safe haven in Pakistan, and that they are busy 
training more and more operatives.

A whole new generation is growing up in occupied Iraq. Their memories 
begin after U.S. forces rolled in. Since electricity and water and 
basic services have been on the fritz. Since whole neighborhoods have 
become wandering refugees. Many have never known the cultural gems of 
their own country. This cannot bode well for the region.

Secretary of State Rice has admitted that the Taliban is resurgent in 
Afghanistan. And the report of the Congressional Commission on the 
National Guard and Reserves found that there is an ''appalling gap'' in 
our ability to defend the homeland because of Guard and Reserve 
redeployments to Iraq.

Meanwhile, we are squandering $12 billion per month on the occupation 
while our economy slides into recession and the American people face 
the loss of their jobs, their health care, and their homes. Let's be 
clear, Mr. Speaker, the main reason we are in this recession is because 
of the senseless and unending occupation of Iraq.

And our brave men and women in uniform, what about them? They're 
paying a very high price for this occupation. Every day, five U.S. 
soldiers try to commit suicide because the frequency of deployment has 
put tremendous stress on them and their families. This is simply 
unacceptable and a national disgrace if we do not act to reverse this 
trend.

Mr. Speaker, I will be back on this floor talking about this some 
more, but this is my 250th time, and I want you to know, it's time that 
this occupation be over.
