---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7e4215da5532390c04c2d7f9c98d9792`
`Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Engel for 
yielding.

Last Saturday in my hometown of Springfield, Massachusetts, I spent 
the day welcoming back 150 brave American soldiers from the 181st 
Engineer Battalion of the National Guard who just completed a year-long 
deployment in Iraq. Their mission was to provide security for their 
fellow servicemembers and to protect military facilities. This group 
included members who possessed the Bronze Star, the Combat Action 
Badge, and the Purple Heart. Every Member of this House and Senate has 
participated in ceremonies similar to this across the country. We might 
have our differences about the war, but we find common ground in our 
steadfast support for these soldiers both in Iraq, on their way to 
Iraq, and around the world. And that is one of the reasons I intend to 
vote in favor of this bipartisan resolution today.

There is a reason that the framers of our constitutional system chose 
in Article I to establish that Congress is the first branch of the 
government, to oversee the Executive. One of the reasons that we are 
here today is because the majority at the time never asked a question 
of the Administration. Everything the Administration said, the 
Republican majority at that time in Congress went along with.

I am mindful of the thousands of soldiers who have died, more than 
3,200. I am mindful of the 21,000 today who have been wounded. I am 
mindful of those who continue to serve our country bravely and 
honorably, and that the burden of this war has fallen on these troops 
and their families. There has been very little sacrifice asked of the 
American people.

But those who have sacrificed deserve a frank and honest debate about 
President Bush's policy. This is the debate we should have had 4 years 
ago.

You cannot edit history. We know today there were no weapons of mass 
destruction. There was no enriched uranium from Niger. There was no 
connection to al Qaeda. We were not welcomed as liberators in war. And 
3/1/2/ years later, the mission has not been accomplished.

Madam Speaker, like the vast majority of the American people, I agree 
that the war in Iraq is going badly and getting worse. I attach great 
significance to the National Intelligence Estimate. The overall 
security situation in Iraq has deteriorated, as they have said, with 
2006 being one of the deadliest years to date. The war has increased 
Islamic radicalism around the world and has helped to destabilize the 
entire Middle East. By any objective standard, Iraq has descended into 
something worse than a civil war, as noted by the Iraq Study Group, and 
our American troops are caught in the middle. And let us call it for 
what it is: a civil war.

Yet President Bush, nearly 3 years after declaring an end to major 
combat operations in Iraq, is sending another 20,000 American troops 
into battle. And Vice President Cheney, in the face of insurmountable 
evidence, continues to declare that Iraq is a success.

As we debate this resolution today, it is clear that support for the 
war is at a tipping point. Our intelligence community, speaking 
collectively in the recent NIE, they believe that the future of Iraq is 
grim. And, most significantly, our distinguished military commanders 
believe it is time for a new direction. General Powell, General Zinni, 
General Batiste, General Gregory Newbold, and others have all expressed 
concern about the future of Iraq. These are individuals who were 
involved in the planning and execution of the war; and, obviously, they 
do not like what they see.



Even former director of the National Security Agency under President 
Reagan, retired Lieutenant General William Odom, acknowledged on Sunday 
that ''the President's policy in Iraq is based on illusions, not 
realities.''

I do not believe that public opinion alone should shape public 
policy, but no one should underestimate the intelligence of the 
American people. They are convinced that ''stay the course,'' as 
President Bush has suggested, has not succeeded.

Every Member of Congress wants our soldiers to succeed in Iraq. No 
elected representative in this institution would ever seek to undermine 
our servicemen and women. But the facts are clear. The war in Iraq is 
the most important issue facing America today, and our constituents are 
entitled to know where their representatives stand on the way forward. 
That is why this debate, finally, is so important. Just as the debate 
in 2002 led us into the war with Iraq, perhaps this conversation with 
the American people that we are having today will begin the process of 
bringing our troops back home.

More than 4 years ago, I came to the floor of the House with deep 
reservations about granting President Bush unlimited powers to 
authorize this invasion of a sovereign country. It is the best vote of 
opposition that I have offered in my 19 years in this House of 
Representatives