---
---

# HONORING PRESIDENTIAL UNIT CITATION RECIPIENT EDWARD J. TINNEY OF  SPRING HILL, FL
## `7e61d41039dd9dd53a6ede6f993d8b3e`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 21 April 2009`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
honor an American hero and distinguished recipient of the Presidential 
Unit Citation. Mr. Edward J. Tinney of Spring Hill, Florida was a proud 
member of the Alpha Troop, First Squadron, 11th Armored Calvary 
Regiment in South Vietnam. The unit was awarded the rare and 
prestigious citation in recognition of their determination under 
extremely dangerous and hazardous conditions.

In 1970 in the Republic of South Vietnam, Mr. Tinney's unit 
distinguished itself through a series of daunting combat missions over 
many months. After a five-year review, the Department of Defense 
recommended this small unit for the Citation, a very rare honor. The 
professional skill and personal devotion displayed by Mr. Tinney and 
his unit reflect their immense commitment and sacrifice.

Since its inception in 1941, the Citation has been awarded fewer than 
100 times to include the Second World War, the Korean War, the Cold 
War, the war in Vietnam, Operation Iraqi Freedom and Afghanistan and 
only five units as small as Mr. Tinney's have received the Citation. To 
be singled out in this manner is a distinct honor.

Madam Speaker, soldiers like Mr. Tinney should be recognized for 
their service to our nation and for their commitment and sacrifices in 
battle. I am honored to congratulate Mr. Tinney and his unit on their 
long overdue Presidential Unit Citation. His family, friends and loved 
ones should know that we truly consider him one of America's heroes.
