---
---

# THE BUDGET
## `7e727bdc9c004ac3a533d1502e85450c`
`Mr. INHOFE — 18 March 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. I thank the Chair. While we are paying these huge taxes, 
you have to keep in mind that China is not doing that, Mexico isn't 
doing it, and India isn't doing it. They are laughing at us. I wish 
there was time to finish. We document what China and Mexico are saying. 
They are going to be the beneficiary. If we were to limit 
CO2 in our country, our jobs would have to go elsewhere. 
There would not be adequate energy.



In conclusion, if you look at how fast this is in terms of what 
happened so far, for those of us--I am not saying anything disparaging 
about the President; I like the guy--all of these things that are in 
yellow are expenditures that are unprecedented in the history of this 
country. Far worse than that would be if we were to pass a cap-and-
trade bailout. It would cost some $6.7 trillion, as opposed to the 
lower figures. It is something we cannot afford. It is all pain and no 
climate gain.

Let me briefly go back in history. It is my understanding that the 
other person who was going to use time is delayed, so we have more 
time. I mentioned a minute ago that when Republicans were in the 
majority, I was the chairman of the committee called Environment and 
Public Works. This committee has jurisdiction over most of the energy 
issues we deal with.

At that time--way back during the Kyoto consideration, about 10 years 
ago--most people didn't believe CO2 or anthropogenic gases 
were causing global warming. We were in a warming period at that time. 
I have an interesting speech where I take magazines, such as Time, 
where back in the middle 1970s they were talking about another ice age 
coming, and we were all going to die. I wish I had it with me now.

About 2 years ago, the same Time magazine had this polar bear 
standing on the last piece of ice floating around on an icecap, saying 
that we were all going to die; global warming is coming.

A couple things, I believe, are the motivation for this. One is 
publications. Probably their two largest issues were those two. They 
made people walking by the news stands and seeing that ''we are going 
to die'' think: I better see how much time we have left. It started 
with the U.N. IPCC, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, that 
came out with this idea that somehow greenhouse gases are causing 
global warming.

When you think about it--and this was in concert with the NAS--they 
had reports they started giving out, summaries for policyholders. They 
were not based on science. They talked about how the science is all 
settled. It was after we realized from the Wharton School how much 
money this is going to cost taxpayers. After that, we were in a 
position where we could start analyzing it, and then the scientists 
started coming out of the woodwork. They were no longer intimidated.

One of the problems we had was that the scientists who were dependent 
upon various sources of income, either from the Government or from 
various organizations, such as the Heinz Foundation and Pew 
Foundation--so long as they said they went along with this scheme that 
CO2 is causing global warming, they were getting grants. 
This started changing, and they started telling the truth. We now have 
accumulated--later today or tomorrow, I will give a talk showing how 
the science now has grown, where over 700 scientists who were on the 
other side of this issue are now on the truth side of this issue.

So the science needs to be talked about even right now during the 
debate. It is probably more significant that we talk about the 
economics and what it is going to cost people.

I can remember when Claude Allegre, who is probably the most 
respected scientist in France, a Socialist, was a person who was very 
strongly on the Al Gore side of this issue and has recently come over 
and said, in reevaluating, in looking at this issue and in looking at 
what has happened to the climate, the science is not there.

David Bellamy, a similar scientist in Great Britain, was on the other 
side of this issue. He has now come over.

Nir Shaviv from Israel, a top scientist who was always on the other 
side of this issue until about 3 years ago--I don't have the quotes 
here--came out and said: We are wrong on this issue, the science is not 
there.

By the way, we have a lot of documentation, and I invite my 
colleagues to go to my Web site, inhofe.senate.gov. We document what 
has happened in terms of the science.

This has been a 10-year journey. I sometimes think of Winston 
Churchill, who said:




 The truth is incontrovertible. Malice may attack it, 


 ignorance may deride it, but in the end, there it is.


It has taken 10 years for the truth to come out so the American 
people realize, with all of the scary stuff going on, with Hollywood 
and the elitists pouring money into campaigns--and I am talking about 
moveon.org, George Soros, Michael Moore, and all the millions of 
dollars that went into campaigns. They have influenced a lot of Members 
of the House and Senate. But the truth is coming out now.

As this issue moves forward, I invite all of us to look at all that 
has happened. It is hard for people to understand this sometimes until 
they get to my stage in life. I have 20 kids and grandkids. None of 
this stuff is going to affect me, but it is going to affect future 
generations. I look at that and think: How can we allow all this to 
take place and then pass a tax increase that will do absolutely 
nothing?

I repeat, those who are believers who have bought into this thing and 
have seen the science fiction movie ''An Inconvenient Truth''--even if 
we do that, what good would it do for us to do it unilaterally in the 
United States, take the jobs and put them in countries that have no 
additional requirements? It would have a net increase of 
CO2. That is being logical even for those who are believers 
that this is a problem.

Yesterday, I pointed out something I thought should be pointed out; 
that is, the first bailout was the $700 billion bailout. As much as I 
hate to say it, 74 Senators voted for that bailout. What is bad about 
that is this gave one person, an unelected bureaucrat, the power over 
$700 billion to do with as he wished. It is interesting because that 
was Hank Paulson, the Secretary of Treasury. Now we find the new 
Secretary of Treasury was in on that deal at the same time. So they put 
this together. A lot of this stuff was authorized by voting to give 
someone $700 billion to do with as he wished. Now we are paying for 
that, and the costs are very great.

I believe, when we look at what is going on right now, there are some 
scary things over and above what I have been talking about. I had 
occasion to make several trips to Gitmo, Guantanamo Bay. That is an 
asset we have had in this country since 1903. In fact, it is one of the 
few good deals around. We are still paying the same rent now that we 
paid back then. It is $4,000 a year, and we get this great big 
resource. It is a place to put the detainees and to go through the 
tribunals in a courtroom that is over there.

One of the scary things I am looking at now is a statement by 
President Obama that he wants to do away with the tribunals and he 
wants to close Gitmo or Guantanamo Bay. Here is the problem we have 
with that. Right now, we have 245 detainees--some call them 
terrorists--who are incarcerated there. Of the 245, 170 of them have no 
place to go. Their countries will not take them back. They cannot be 
repatriated anywhere. Of the 170, 110 are really like the Shaikh 
Mohammed-type individuals--really bad terrorists. If the President goes 
through with his statement that he is going to close Guantanamo Bay, 
there is no place else to put them, no place in the world.

This number is going to increase as we escalate in Afghanistan. It is 
going to be going up. Some might say: There are prisons in Afghanistan. 
Yes, there are two, but they will only take detainees who are Afghans. 
So if they are from Djibouti, Yemen, or Saudi Arabia, then they have to 
go someplace else. The only place we can put them right now is 
Guantanamo Bay.

The argument some make is there has been torture going on. That has 
been completely refuted. In fact, every publication, every television 
station, every newspaper that has gone and inspected the premises at 
Guantanamo Bay has come back with a report that it is better than 
anything in our prison system in the United States.

One of the suggestions was that we take these people and send them 
around to some 17 areas within the United States. One of those areas 
suggested is in my State of Oklahoma, which is Fort Sill. I went down 
to Fort Sill the other day to look at the place, trying to picture if 
we had a bunch of terrorist detainees there.

By the way, this will serve throughout the country as 17 magnets to 
bring in terrorist activity. Most people agree that would be the case.

If we were to distribute these people around, they would have to be 
coming into our court system since we could not use tribunals, and the 
rules of evidence are different in a court system.


It could be that some of these people would actually be turned loose.

It is very serious. It is something we need to keep. Every 
publication, every newspaper or television station that has gone to 
Guantanamo Bay has come back and said all these things just are not 
true, we need to keep Gitmo, and it has changed a lot of minds. I am 
hoping that is one area where we will be able to demonstrate clearly 
that it is a resource we must have and the world needs very much. We 
will be working to that cause.

Another issue that is not talked about very much in the budget is 
that almost everything is increased. We look at the size of the budget. 
We look at the deficits. The deficit for the year we are in right now 
could approach $2 trillion. It is just unimaginable. People criticized 
George W. Bush during his tenure, but if you take all the deficits for 
those 8 years, add them up, and divide by eight, it averaged $245 
billion a year. Now we are talking about eight times that in 1 year. 
These amounts are horrible.

The other aspect of the budget I don't like is everything is going 
up, an increase in spending, except military. We have a serious problem 
right now that we are facing in the military; that is, during the 
decade of the nineties, we downgraded our military by about 40 percent. 
I might add that some countries that could be potential adversaries, 
such as China, increased tenfold during that time. We reduced. There 
was this euphoric attitude that the Cold War is over, we don't need a 
military anymore. So in the nineties, they brought down the military in 
terms of our force strength, in terms of our modernization program.


There were a few heroes back at that time who helped us out. One was 
a GEN John Jumper, before he became the Chief of the Air Force. He made 
a statement in 1998. He said: Now we are in a position where our best 
strike fighters, our best strike equipment, the F-15 and F-16, are not 
as good in many ways as what the Russians are making right now in the 
SU series. At that time, it was SU-30s, now SU-35s. We went ahead. That 
helped us get into the F-22 and the Joint Strike Fighter so we would 
again regain our superiority.

When I talk with people and tell them that when our kids go out in 
potential conflicts, they would be fighting people who have better 
equipment than we do, it is un-American, it is not believable. Right 
now, the best artillery piece we have is called a Paladin. It is World 
War II technology. You have to get out and swab the breech after every 
shot. Yet there are five countries, including South Africa, that make a 
better one than we have.

Because we lifted that awareness, we were able to step into an area 
of what we call Future Combat Systems, FCS, to modernize our ground 
equipment and other equipment they will use. There are 16 elements of 
the Future Combat Systems. The first is NLOS-C, non-line-of-site 
cannon. This would replace the Paladin, so we will have something that 
is state of the art. But we are not there and will not be there for 
several more years.

We went through the decade of the nineties downgrading our military, 
and then, of course, when 9/11 came, all of a sudden we were in a war. 
I have to be sympathetic with former President George W. Bush because 
he inherited a military that had been taken down, and then all of a 
sudden he is confronted with one or two wars or fronts he had to fight. 
So it has been very difficult.

It is interesting to me that many of the liberal Members of the 
Senate during the years we were trying to enhance our military spending 
are the ones who objected to that and then complained about the 
overworking of our Guard and Reserve. They actually are responsible for 
that. Yes, we are now trying to do something about it. But in this 
budget, we increase spending everywhere except the military. That is an 
area where we are going to have to be doing something.