# None
## `7e78c693912fbecbdb06d2887d99a898`
`Mr. INHOFE — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, on June 16, the House passed the bill we 
have been talking about here. I have concerns that have not been 
discussed in the last few minutes.

Although the Senate voted 90 to 6 on a bipartisan amendment to 
prohibit funding for the transfer of Gitmo detainees to the United 
States, the supplemental appropriations conference report deleted that 
language. That language came from an amendment that was authored by 
myself and my good friend from Hawaii, Senator Inouye, but they 
stripped that language. The Senate's bipartisan amendment would have 
effectively prevented the closing of the terrorist detention facility 
at Gitmo. Since President Obama announced that he intended to close 
Gitmo, it has become widely circulated that these detainees could be 
transferred to American prisons for prosecution in U.S. criminal courts 
and potentially released in the United States.

In February of this year, I led a delegation--I have been there 
several times--a delegation that had never been down to Gitmo, and they 
saw the fine treatment the detainees get down there and saw the rooms 
where torturing supposedly is going on. Not one incident of torture has 
ever been documented.



After I returned, I introduced S. 370 to prevent the detainees at 
Gitmo from being relocated anywhere on American soil. Since that time, 
it has been called to our attention that the administration is talking 
about maybe 17 locations in the United States to put these terrorists. 
One of those locations was Fort Sill in my State of Oklahoma. I went 
down there, and I found out that would not be at all workable. In fact, 
Sergeant Major Carter, who is in charge of the prison at Fort Sill, 
said: Why in the world would they close a place like Gitmo? It is the 
ideal place to keep these people.

Currently, even though they are talking about putting them in 
supermax prisons, the only supermax facility is located in Florence, 
CO. According to the Bureau of Prisons, as of May 21, only one bed has 
not been filled at supermax. Obviously, this isn't going to work. The 
rated capacity of BOP facilities at the beginning of this month was 
13,648 inmates, while the total prison population of those facilities 
was far more than that--exceeding 20,000.

Despite claims by Senator Durbin that supermax prisons in the United 
States are ready to receive detainees, the supermax prisons in the 
United States are at or above their maximum capacity.

Additionally, the civilian prisons do not meet the same standard as 
currently exists at Gitmo. In 2002, an entire wing of a jail in 
Alexandria, VA, was cleared out for the 9/11 ''20th hijacker,'' 
Zacarias Moussaoui, to be housed in the jail. That was just one 
detainee. For one detainee, they are talking about clearing out the 
entire wing. So moving detainees to the United States would not be 
reasonable.

It would also place America and its citizens at risk in inevitably 
creating a new set of targets. This is the problem we have. We have 17 
places in the United States where we would be putting these people. We 
have 17 magnets to draw in terrorists located around the country.

Three weeks after I called for President Obama and my Senate 
colleagues to go see firsthand the facility at Gitmo, Attorney General 
Eric Holder--he is our new Attorney General appointed by President 
Obama--went down there, and he came back with a glowing report that the 
facility is well run by its current military officers. This affirms 
what I have been saying all along; that is, Gitmo is a state-of-the-art 
facility that provides humane treatment for all detainees and is fully 
compliant with the Geneva Conventions.

When the war supplemental came to the floor in the Senate, I was 
extremely pleased that Democrats and Republicans in the Senate joined 
together and announced they would not include the $80 million in the 
war supplemental to close Gitmo. Sadly, this bipartisan initiative has 
fallen victim to partisan politics without any regard for our national 
security or the wishes of the American people.

Senator Reid, Harry Reid, declared--and I agreed with him--in a press 
conference after my bipartisan Senate amendment was passed that, ''We 
will never allow terrorists to be released into the United States.'' I 
think that is a good statement. I agree with it. He went on to say, 
''We don't want them around the United States. I can't make it any 
clearer than the statement I have given you. We will never allow 
terrorists to be released in the United States.'' Well, that sounds 
real good, and I agree with him and I hope he is right. However, the 
problem is, if you try to try these people in our Federal court system 
where the rules of evidence are different in terms of admissibility of 
evidence, many times we would not be able to get a prosecution and they 
would be turned loose.

Finally, Senator Durbin said the feeling was at this point that we 
were defending the unknown, we were being asked to defend a plan that 
hasn't been announced. Well, I have to say it still hasn't been 
announced.

Two weeks ago, the Obama administration again went against the will 
of Congress and the American people by transferring the first Gitmo 
detainee to the United States for his trial in New York City. This was 
Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani. This is a guy, if you remember, who is the 
terrorist responsible for the bombing at the American Embassies in 
Tanzania and in Kenya. He was later captured in Pakistan in 2004 while 
working for al-Qaida preparing false documents and facilitating a 
transport of arms to insurgents across the Afghan and Pakistan border. 
Intelligence shows that Ghailani met both bin Laden and Khalid Shaikh 
Mohammed in Afghanistan and remained in close association with al-Qaida 
until his capture in 2004. Now this bona fide terrorist will have the 
privilege of a U.S. civilian court trial in the United States. Ahmed 
Ghailani was just 1 of 239 detainees housed in the state-of-the-art 
facility at Gitmo.

According to the Wall Street Journal today, a government official has 
said that well over 50 detainees have been approved for transfer to 
other countries and that negotiations were continuing with Saudi Arabia 
to take a large group of Yemen detainees. Attorney General Eric Holder 
estimated yesterday that more than 50 detainees may end up in trial by 
U.S. authorities. This news comes as more and more Americans are 
growing opposed to the closure of Gitmo. In fact, I would have to say 
this: Recently, we have had more and more polls taken, and it is now 
about a 3-to-1 ratio that people don't want these people tried in the 
United States, they don't want to have them housed in the United 
States.

So we have a very serious problem. Not only are we talking about 
detainees down there, we are also talking about an increase in the 
surge in Afghanistan, and even though Afghanistan does have two 
prisons, they won't take any detainees unless they are Afghans. So if 
they are from Yemen or from Djibouti, they won't take them. So this is 
the problem we have right now.

The views of Congress haven't changed. In 2007, the Senate voted 94 
to 3 to a nonbinding resolution to block detainees from being 
transferred to the United States, declaring:




 Detainees housed at Guantanamo should not be released into 


 American society nor should they be transferred stateside 


 into facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.


In 2009, the Senate voted 90 to 6 to again keep detainees out of 
America.

The views of the American people have not changed. I mentioned the 
polls. The polls are all conclusive that the American people do not 
want to have these people turned loose into the United States, which is 
exactly what could happen.

While the quality of the facility of Gitmo has not changed, it is the 
only facility of its kind that is currently--it has six levels of 
security from the different levels of security. It has one doctor for 
each two detainees, and, as everyone agrees, it is the ideal place.

I might add that this is one of the few good deals we have in 
government in that it only costs us $4,000 a year. We have had this 
place since 1903, and it is something we can't get rid of. The only 
reason I mention this now is because I have the bill that is filed, 
which is S. 370, that meets the will of the American people.