# None
## `7e79f91da6f6aed1c7d4ea5049e26350`
`Mr. CROWLEY — 23 September 2008`

---


Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the resolution 
and yield myself as much time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my good friend and colleague, 
Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, as well as Congressman Brad Miller, for 
urging the condemnation of the most vicious crime imaginable, the 
systematic rape and mutilation committed against women, girls and boys 
taking place in the Democratic Republic of Congo, known as the DRC.

The conflict in the DRC has been called the deadliest since World War 
II. Within the last 10 years, more than 5 million people have died, and 
the numbers keep rising. In fact, more people have died because of war 
in the DRC than in Iraq, Afghanistan and Darfur combined. As in other 
wars, women in the DRC are overwhelmingly the target of military 
aggression. Rape and mutilation are the perpetrators' preferred weapon 
of choice. Unlike other wars, the scale and systematic nature of rape 
in the DRC is unparalleled. In some villages, as many as 90 percent of 
the women and girls have been raped.

This important resolution encourages the Secretary of State to work 
with the DRC Government to develop a strategy to address and end the 
large-scale sexual violence in the DRC. Our State Department and our 
American embassy in the DRC should have this extremely important 
mission.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues in the House to support this 
resolution.

With that, I will reserve the balance of my time.