---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2764, THE  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `7e8576f71ae20132898912e7dd81048a`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 17 December 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the rule and of 
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, specifically division J on State 
and Foreign Operations. Division J reflects a bipartisan, bicameral 
effort by Ranking Member Wolf, myself, Senator Leahy and Senator Gregg 
to address our strategic priorities, national security interests and 
invest in development, poverty reduction and global health. I also 
wanted to thank Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Obey for their knowledge 
and their commitment to the priorities in this bill.

Just a few highlights. For those of us who did read the bill, what do 
we have, 20 hours, 3,500 pages. I am sure if you all divided it up, you 
would have a good understanding of what is in that bill.

Some highlights: $6.5 billion, $796 million above the President's 
request, for HIV/AIDS and other global health programs; $1.5 billion to 
address humanitarian emergencies, including Iraqi refugees; $550 
million for the U.N. peacekeeping mission in Darfur, funding for 
Liberian security sector assistance and increased assistance for 
Africa; an expansion of basic education, safe water, environmental 
programs; $1.544 billion, 344 million above the Senate-passed level, 
for the Millennium Challenge Account. This funding will allow them to 
undertake all planned compacts and threshold programs this year. It 
maintains Israel's qualitative military edge. It maintains our 
development and security assistance to the people of Pakistan, 
assistance central to helping them fight al Qaeda, the Taliban and 
associated terrorist groups.

And I want to especially thank our staff for their tireless work in 
crafting the bipartisan bill, the division J of this Consolidated 
Appropriations Act. This bill will help make America be more secure and 
improve the lives of millions around the world, and I encourage my 
colleagues to vote for this bill.