---
---

# None
## `7e91106514e10c8379d1427da092cda7`
`Mr. KING of New York — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. KING of New York. Madam Speaker, today I rise to recognize a 
dedicated public servant who devoted nearly four decades to protecting 
this great Nation. Vice Admiral John Scott Redd, U.S. Navy (Ret.), 
retired last week after serving as the first Director of the National 
Counterterrorism Center (NCTC).

Admiral Redd's accomplishments are many, having served thirty-six 
years in the United States Navy, which culminated in his assignment as 
the Director of Strategic Plans and Policy on the Joint Staff. Retiring 
from the Navy in 1998, Admiral Redd was again called to serve in 2004, 
this time as the Deputy Administrator and Chief Operating Officer of 
the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, Iraq. He went on to 
serve as the Executive Director of the Commission on the Intelligence 
Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction 
where he influenced Community-wide intelligence reforms and made 
lasting improvements to America's national security.

Under his superior leadership, the National Counterterrorism Center 
developed into the Nation's premier intelligence and law enforcement 
fusion center, bridging all elements of the Intelligence Community to 
develop a national common intelligence picture. Admiral Redd tore down 
walls between Intelligence Community members and replaced a ''need to 
know'' philosophy with a ''responsibility to share'' environment.

Some of the Intelligence Community's successes are known such as the 
thwarted terrorist attacks against the Sears Tower, a Chicago-area 
shopping mall, military forces at Fort Dix, New Jersey, and multiple 
targets in New York, D.C. and elsewhere. Others remain classified. 
However, in each instance, the National Counterterrorism Center played 
a key information sharing role which led to the successful prevention 
of these attacks against our citizens.

Admiral Redd is to be commended for his contributions to the Nation, 
but such a persevering service is not without a cost. For that I offer 
my personal thanks to his wife of over 37 years, Donna Redd, and their 
children Ann, Scott, and Adam, without whose support such service would 
not have been possible.
