# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7e9a07e81beba7358fffb6e02b949a07`
`Mr. BENNETT — 18 December 2009`

---


Mr. BENNETT. I thank the Chair.

I rise to discuss the Defense appropriations bill. We think of that 
in terms of funding the troops and taking care of challenges overseas, 
but there is an aspect to this bill I wish to focus on. In this bill, 
in addition to appropriations for the Defense Department, there is what 
has come to be known around here as the doc fix. That is, every year we 
face a situation with respect to physician reimbursements for Medicare. 
Every year the law that is before us cuts the level of reimbursements 
for Medicare to the doctors. Every year the doctors come back to the 
Congress and say: We can't survive this. We can't live with this. We 
have to have some more reimbursement. The cuts that are in the law 
can't be allowed to continue.

Every year we come along and say: All right, we will fix that but 
just for this year. Every year we say: All right, we will give you the 
full amount of reimbursement that you feel you are entitled to and, 
thereby, postpone the amount of cuts in your reimbursement that are in 
the law. This has happened so often that it now has a generic name. 
Every time it happens it is called the doc fix. This year the doc fix 
is included in the appropriations bill for the Defense Department.



The reason it is appropriate for us to be talking about the impact of 
the doc fix at this particular time is because of the impact of the doc 
fix on the health care bill which is what we will return to when we are 
through with the Defense appropriations bill. Given the fact that the 
doc fix is in the Defense appropriations bill, I think it appropriate 
that I talk about the underlying problem for a moment. When you get to 
the health care bill and try to figure out how it is going to be paid 
for, this multitrillion dollar bill, you find that one of the main ways 
it is going to be paid for is by cutting the reimbursement to doctors 
and hospitals under Medicare. Indeed, I believe the amount that will be 
cut is up to $/1/2/ trillion. The reason I say I believe that is the 
amount is because we have not seen the actual language of the bill we 
will be asked to vote on probably on Christmas Eve. The bill has been 
drafted. The managers package has been drafted. It has been referred to 
CBO for a score. But it has not been shared with any of the Members of 
the Senate. We are guessing as to what it will be.

But there has been enough said and enough written about it that I 
think the guess of a $/1/2/ trillion cut in appropriations to 
physicians and hospitals is a legitimate number.

All right. We have never seen a cut of this magnitude before. We have 
had much smaller cuts that have come along, and every time we have 
dealt with those cuts by passing a doc fix.

Now what we are seeing here is the passage in the Defense 
appropriations bill of yet another doc fix. What that means is, we 
know, based on precedent, that the Congress will never allow the $500 
billion cut that is in the underlying health care bill to actually take 
place. If it is not going to take place, why is it in the bill? The 
answer to that is something I have a hard time explaining to my 
constituents, because they don't understand the ins and outs of the 
scoring situation by the CBO. But I will do my best to help make it 
clear.

The Congressional Budget Office is called upon to score each bill 
separately. So if you have a bill with respect to defense, they score 
that bill, and they do not talk about the impact of that on the overall 
budget. They say: These are the numbers. If you have a bill that deals 
with Interior, they score that bill. If you have a bill that deals with 
Transportation, they score that bill. Each bill is scored separately as 
a single entity.

Let's talk about the health care bill. The health care bill is going 
to increase costs dramatically. When it increases cost dramatically, in 
order to keep President Obama's pledge that it will not add one dime to 
the Federal deficit, there has to be something in that bill that cuts 
the cost. So we assume, based on previous versions, what will be put in 
the managers' amendment is a $500 billion cut in Medicare 
reimbursements. Now you begin to balance the dollars within that bill. 
Because if we have $500 billion more in spending but we are going to 
take $500 billion out of Medicare, then the two balance each other, and 
you can say, as the computers at CBO do say: This bill is in balance 
and will not increase the deficit.

All right. But if you take the $500 billion that has been cut from 
Medicare reimbursement and pass a fix, if you will, for that $500 
billion in another bill, it doesn't get scored against this bill. That 
is what we are doing with respect to the Defense appropriations bill. 
We are taking the Defense appropriations bill and passing a bill that 
would pay doctors under Medicare, would take care of the shortfall 
under Medicare, but would not be scored against the health care bill.

I don't know of any business that dares to keep its books that way. I 
don't know of any business that could possibly survive that would say: 
All right, we are going to calculate only in this one area the cost of 
the product against the sales of the product and say the two balance 
each other in such a fashion that this is a logical thing to do. But at 
the same time in a separate situation, we are going to say we are going 
to borrow X amount of money to pay for the shortfall in this product, 
and we are going to pretend that the borrowing of the money separately 
somehow doesn't affect the accounting with respect to the product. 
Nobody keeps books that way. Indeed, if a private entity were to try to 
keep its books that way, it would not only go out of business but 
possibly its owners or managers would end up going to jail. You cannot 
do that kind of sleight of hand in a private enterprise, but we do it 
all the time with respect to the government.

The attempt was made, if you will recall, for us to do the doc fix 
prior to the time when we got to health care. The Senate turned it 
down. The Senate said: No, we are not going to engage in those kinds of 
smoke and mirrors with respect to the budget. We turned that down. As I 
was driving home that night and I had the radio on and listened to 
people talk about today in Congress, this is what I heard. They said 
two items with respect to today's activity. No. 1, it talked about the 
progress of the health care bill in the Senate. And then, No. 2, it 
said the House just passed a $200 billion doc fix to take care of the 
shortfall in reimbursements to doctors with respect to Medicare. Again, 
the computers at the Congressional Budget Office can't link these two 
events. But they were clearly linked in the comments and the report 
made on the radio, and they are clearly linked in the deficit.

So the House is saying: We understand that we are not going to keep 
the pledges we are making in the health care bill, and we are going to 
appropriate $200 billion for the sole purpose of breaking the pledge 
that will be made in the health care bill. But because they are done in 
two separate pieces of legislation, we hope no one will notice. We hope 
the American people won't find out that this is the kind of bait and 
switch we are going through with respect to this bill. We are finding 
an example of this in the bill before us, the Defense appropriations 
bill. It has a doc fix in it to take care of the situation as far as 
the computers are concerned, but it will not take care of the situation 
as far as the deficit is concerned.

This is not the only piece of smoke and mirrors that we have in the 
underlying legislation. Going along with it is another item that I find 
absolutely incredible. I have run a business. I have kept books. I have 
paid taxes. I have dealt with the government as they have come in to 
audit. I know that no one in a business could ever get by with the 
thing that is proposed in the managers' amendment, we think--we haven't 
seen the amendment--along with the doc fix that I have been describing.

Let me try to put it in this form. Let's assume that you are the 
manager of a company and the sales manager comes to you and says: We 
have a new product. It is going to be a hot new product. It is going to 
be fabulous in terms of its return for the company.


You say: Great, love that. Good news. How does it work?

Well, we are going to manufacture this new widget and it will cost us 
X. But the revenue from it is going to be Y and that is much more than 
X so we will make all that money.

You say: All right. How much does each widget cost?

Well, each widget costs more than we are going to sell it for.

OK, how in the world are you going to make so much money when you 
have a widget that costs more to make than you can sell it for?

He says: Easy. This is the way we are going to do it. We are going to 
lay out a 10-year program of sales, and we are going to sell this 
widget for that entire 10 years. But we are only going to deliver the 
widgets for 6 years. So we have 10 years of revenue and only 6 years of 
cost. So we have 4 years of pure revenue and no cost whatsoever.

At that point, I am sure you would say: Let's get ourselves a new 
sales manager. Let's get ourselves somebody who understands that the 
world doesn't work that way. You cannot balance your books by charging 
for 10 years and then only delivering for 6. But that is what the 
underlying health care bill does. It says the taxes to pay for this 
health care plan will start in 2010. Indeed, it will start within a 
week or two after the passage of the bill, if we pass the bill on 
Christmas Eve. But the expenditures under this plan to make things 
available for all of these people who have been telling us we need 
health care reform now, that we cannot wait, we have to have it today. 
I have seen the placards raised. I have seen the protests. We have to 
have it now.



We say: All right. One thing you will get now are the taxes and the 
increases in premiums on people who already have health care. But you 
won't get any of the other benefits out of the bill for 4 years. We 
have to do it that way in order to make the books balance.

You have the doc fix, which the underlying bill we are debating, the 
Defense appropriations bill, makes clear is not going to happen as part 
of the way you pay for the health care. And then you have the 10-year 
revenue, 6-year expense kind of scheme to pay for a good portion of the 
rest of it.

So what is going to happen between now and 2014 when the bill finally 
kicks in? You are going to have three open seasons--for those who 
understand the language of the health insurance business--three open 
seasons in which people will look at their level of premiums and say: 
Wait a minute, how come my premiums are going up when nothing 
additional is being done with respect to health care reform? The answer 
will be: Your premiums are going up so the money can be charged by the 
computers as compensation for the new benefits that will kick in, in 
2014.

If you are so impudent as to ask: Well, is the money that is going to 
come from the increased taxes and the increased premiums being put in a 
trust fund somewhere to be held solely for the purpose of paying for 
the increased health insurance benefits? The answer, of course, will be 
no. The money that is coming from the increased taxes and from the 
increased premiums will all go against the current deficit. It will all 
go to deal with the money we are talking about with the stimulus 
package. It will all go for other governmental purposes. There will not 
be a time of it saved to deal with health care. That is not the way the 
government keeps its books. The money comes in. It goes into general 
funds. It gets spent, and it gets spent immediately.

Oh, so that means in 2014, when the expenses of this bill kick in, 
there will not be a dime that will have been accumulated to help pay 
for that? That is true, as far as cash flow is concerned. But it is not 
true as far as the CBO score is concerned, and that is all we care 
about. All we care about is what the CBO computers tell us about 
scoring this bill.

One of the frustrations I have had coming to the Senate from a 
business background--having run a business, having understood the 
challenges of running a business--is the way the government keeps its 
books. I cannot think of a more devastating demonstration of how 
misleading the government accounting system is than the bill we will 
get to when we are through with the bill we are debating today. As I 
said at the beginning, one of the primary examples of that dishonesty 
is contained in the Defense appropriations bill, as it has this year's 
version of the doc fix.

Let me move to a related subject because, as I say, this bill talks 
about the doc fix. The doc fix is connected to the way we try to deal 
with entitlements. Let me step a step beyond the specifics of this bill 
for just a moment and describe what we are dealing with, with the 
entitlements.

First, I need to explain what an entitlement is. I have had 
constituents come to me and say: I hear all this conversation about 
Federal entitlements, and I don't understand. What is an entitlement?

Simply put, an entitlement is a payment to which the individual is 
entitled, whether the government has the money or not. It is not the 
same thing as the government appropriating money and saying: Now we are 
going to give it to you or now we are going to buy this or now we are 
going to pay that bill.

An entitlement means you are entitled to this money ahead of 
everything else. You are entitled to this money whether we have it or 
not. If we do not have the tax revenue that would give us the cash to 
pay you this entitlement, we have the legal obligation to go out and 
borrow the money and pay you the entitlement.

Entitlements--or as they are known in the appropriations world: 
Mandatory spending--now comprise more than two-thirds of all Federal 
expenditures. Let me repeat that because I get gasps of disbelief when 
I say this to my constituents back home. Entitlement spending--money 
the government is required by law to pay whether it has it or not--now 
comprises more than two-thirds of the entire Federal expenditures. The 
largest portion of the entitlement spending we deal with is in--you 
guessed it--health care.

If we allow the health care costs to continue to go up, as they have 
been going up, this is what we are looking at. We will be unable, by 
virtue of our tax base, to pay this entitlement spending. It will all 
be borrowed. The consequences to the national debt will be as follows. 
This is from the Congressional Budget Office. This is not an outside 
analysis. This is from within the own group we turn to in the Congress 
to tell us what is going to happen financially.

At the end of 2008, the publicly held debt of the United States was 
$5.8 trillion. There were many who were very critical of the Congress 
and President Bush for allowing the debt to get to $5.8 trillion.

If there is no diminution of the rate of increase of entitlement 
spending, if it goes as it has been going, if we take no steps to turn 
the cost curve down, what will it be in 10 years--not a long period of 
time in the Nation's history. It was $5.8 trillion at the end of 2008. 
What will it be in 2019? The Congressional Budget Office says it will 
have grown from $5.8 trillion to $17.1 trillion. It will triple in a 
10-year period if we do not do something about entitlements.

So what are we talking about with respect to the health care 
proposal? We are talking about creating a new entitlement. We are 
talking about not turning the cost curve down in the entitlements we 
have already; we are talking about creating a new one and adding it on 
top.

The best way to dramatize this, is to look at the 2010 budget, where 
we are right now, the 2010 budget on which we are drawing up 
appropriations bills. We passed that budget. I did not vote for it, but 
it was passed. Here are the details of the budget that was passed for 
2010. It projected Federal revenues in 2010 at $2.2 trillion. It seems 
like a lot of money. It should be enough to cover all our bills. Then 
you go to the next line, and it says: Mandatory spending--those are the 
entitlements--$2.2 trillion.

That meant that in 2010, every single dime that came into the Federal 
Treasury was already committed to go out to an entitlement and not 
subject to the appropriations process in the Congress.

That meant that everything we appropriated money for in the 
Congress--the Embassies overseas, the military, the war in Afghanistan, 
AID activities, transportation, the national parks, education--
everything else you can think of that the government does was paid for 
by borrowed money. Mr. President, $2.2 trillion in and $2.2 trillion 
out for entitlements meant that the additional $1.4 trillion, that 
actually grew to $1.7 trillion, that we spent had to be borrowed, added 
to the national debt.

That is why the Congressional Budget Office says we are currently on 
track to go from a national debt, when President Bush stepped down, of 
$5.8 trillion to--10 years from now--a national debt of $17.1 trillion.

I see my colleague from Texas has come to the floor, and I will be 
happy to allow him to take the rest of the time. It is up to him as to 
whether he wishes to enter into this.