---
---

# TAX ON BONUSES RECEIVED FROM CERTAIN TARP RECIPIENTS
## `7e9b7c8b894e91ffcce037c17bd3212b`
`Mr. DORGAN — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. First, let me say I support the Senator's amendment. Both 
amendments have some merit. It is not unworthy to be talking about 
trying to tighten belts in every area of public spending, but some 
public spending is more important than others, and we ought to be 
judicious as we deal with it.

The difference, as I understand, between these amendments is one 
says, Let's cut spending in one area, which is domestic discretionary 
spending, which is a rather small part of the budget, and it doesn't 
address the other issues of the spending that goes on through the Tax 
Code, the entitlement spending, and other larger issues as well. Even 
as we vote on these issues--and I intend to vote in support of your 
initiative, which I think is the right initiative--I have to say I 
don't think this is complicated in terms of what has happened to our 
country and what we have to do to put it back on track.

You can't send kids off to war and then say we are going to charge 
all the costs of war. We have been involved now in the war against 
terrorism, the war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan, and not paid for a 
penny of it because throughout the last decade the President said we 
are going to make all of this emergency spending. Some of us said, 
Well, let's pay for it? And President Bush said, If you try to pay for 
it, I will veto the bill.

So it is not particularly complicated to understand what has happened 
here. Government has to pay its bills. Dealing with the entire area of 
public spending here is very important, and I think the Senator has 
offered a piece of legislation, an amendment, that has great merit and 
I hope will get the substantial support of the Senate.