---
---

# AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `7ea18810ef4a7ad46d770bfd401b7e9b`
`Ms. DeLAURO — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. DeLAURO. I rise in opposition to the Sessions amendment, and I am 
astounded that the gentleman is taking the time of the House with this 
amendment.

The only requirement in the language that the amendment seeks to 
strike is for the USDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture to provide a 
report on contracting out policies and expenditures, to the 
appropriations and the Oversight and Government Reform committees.

This is a bipartisan provision, included when the gentleman's party 
was in the majority and a long-standing provision that was first part 
of the Agriculture bill for fiscal year 2004.

If the gentleman's aim is to allow USDA to continue contracting out, 
this amendment is not the way to accomplish that. The language that we 
have included in the bill does not prevent USDA from carrying out the 
outsourcing of Federal work. What it simply aims to do is to establish 
a much-needed oversight on the related costs to contracting out.

Regardless of how one feels about the role of the Federal workforce 
and the outsourcing of Federal jobs to private contractors, why would 
we object to transparency in this area? We are talking about a report.

Now, after the comment about the report being burdensome, this is the 
report, it is hardly burdensome, four paragraphs and a chart. It really 
defies the imagination.

The fact is that we need to exercise our responsibility. We need to 
increase oversight in this area. We all know that the administration's 
guidelines for public-private competitions, OMB circular 876, has long 
favored contractors and stacked the deck against Federal employees.

The Bush White House has pushed privatization so much that the Los 
Angeles Times reported earlier this month that there are more private 
contractors in Iraq than U.S. troops. More than 180,000 civilians, 
including Americans, foreigners and Iraqis, are working in Iraq under 
U.S. contracts, according to State and Defense Department figures 
obtained by the newspaper.

I believe we should know the costs associated with contracting-out 
policies. That is all, again, that is all the language in the report is 
about, and I cannot understand why the gentleman objects to a report.

I urge a ''no'' vote on the amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.