---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `7ea5dec83c653c44337154e312d33d56`
`Mr. CARPER — 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARPER. Built, I think, largely by Lockheed, and a lot of the 
contractual work is being done in maybe close to 40, 45 States. But 
Lockheed does some great work. This particular aircraft, I am troubled 
by a number of things, as are the sponsors of the legislation. It is 
not just that they are troubled, and it is not just that I am troubled, 
but some other folks are troubled too. Let me see if we have a list of 
some of the people who are calling and maybe suggesting that the F-22s 
we have ordered are enough.


Among the people who say, in this case, 187 F-22s, fighter aircraft--
not an aircraft that is used for a lot--a plane mainly built and 
designed to use for dogfights with aircraft from other nations in an 
earlier day; the Soviets or maybe the Chinese or some other country. 
But among the leaders of our country, they are saying, maybe 187 is 
enough. Not maybe but saying 187 is enough. Two Presidents, former 
President George Bush and our current President Barack Obama, they have 
said that not just in giving speeches, but they have actually said that 
with the budgets they submit to us, and in this case President Obama's 
first budget and the last budget, or maybe several budgets from 
President Bush.

Who else has said 187 is enough? Well, Secretaries of Defense; not 
only the current Secretary of Defense, who is Bob Gates, but the 
previous Secretary of Defense, who was also Bob Gates, and I think his 
predecessor as well said 187 should do us.

We have had three Chairs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who have said 
187 F-22s is enough; we think that should do it.

We have had the current members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who have 
said 187 is plenty when it comes to F-22 fighter aircraft.

Finally, two of the most respected Members of the Senate, Senators 
McCain and Levin, as leaders of this committee, have said: Well, this 
is enough. Given our other demands and our other aircraft we have 
available to meet this need, 187 F-22s is plenty.

Let me take a look at the next chart, if we could, and see what we 
have. One of the reasons why all the folks I mentioned have said 187 F-
22s is enough, we think of some of the other aircraft we used, fixed 
wing as well as nonfixed wing aircraft; the F-15 fighter, a number of 
hours flown in Iraq and Afghanistan--these are rough numbers but about 
40,000 flight hours. We have a couple UAVs here, unmanned aerial 
vehicles, one called the ScanEagle, the other is called the Predator. 
The Predator is better known. But so far the ScanEagle has flown in 
Iraq and Afghanistan about 150 flight hours. The Predator has flown 
about a half million flight hours in Iraq and Afghanistan. One of our 
helicopters, I think the H-60, generally we think of as the Black Hawk, 
but Black Hawks have flown 900,000 flight hours in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Down here at the bottom, the number of flight hours, as 
far as we can tell, flown in Iraq and Afghanistan, I am pretty sure 
this is correct: Zero for the F-22. That is a stark number, a stark 
contrast.

Sometimes we tend to order weapons systems, build weapons systems, 
maintain weapons systems to fight wars such as the last war we fought, 
not thinking so much about maybe the weapons systems we need for the 
current war or we will likely to need for a future war. One of the 
reasons why this administration, the last administration, why this 
President, this Secretary of Defense and previous ones have said we 
don't think we want to do any more F-22s is because they believe that, 
for awhile, we are going to be fighting wars such as unfortunately we 
fought in Iraq and especially Afghanistan. That is going to be more the 
modus operandi. We are going to be fighting counterinsurgencies, and 
what we need are weapons systems and men and women who are trained to 
fight in those wars. The F-22, frankly, does not lend itself to that 
kind of war.

I led a congressional delegation with four of my colleagues back at 
the end of May into Afghanistan and Pakistan, including our Presiding 
Officer. We learned a lot. It was wonderful, and we came home feeling 
very much encouraged about our strategy in Afghanistan, the men and 
women who are implementing that strategy, both on the military and the 
civilian side. One of the things we learned going into Pakistan is 
that, for years, the Pakistanis have been preparing to fight the next 
war not against the Taliban, not against al-Qaida, which happened in 
the northwestern province, but they have been preparing to fight the 
next war forever--I guess since 1947--against the Indians, against the 
country of India. They may have a weapons system to work just fine in 
that particular altercation if that were to occur. But their real 
threat, frankly, isn't as much India anymore; their real threat is the 
Taliban and the al-Qaida folks hanging out in those northwestern 
provinces on the border of Afghanistan. While India and Pakistan may 
have plenty of fighter aircraft, unfortunately, they don't have any 
helicopters. They need mobility and they need helicopters to be able to 
move their counterinsurgency forces. They don't have them. Frankly, we 
are sort of guilty in a way of the same thing with the F-22.



Let's see what we have on the next chart. I will come to this in a 
bit. One of the things we think about when we think of aircraft we use 
is, first of all, the missions we need the aircraft for and the kind of 
wars and threats we are likely to face. That helps us make that 
decision.

Occasionally, we look at how much it costs to fly an aircraft. We 
look at the dollars we spend to put an aircraft or helicopter into the 
air for an hour. I have seen a wide range of flight hour costs for the 
F-22--that it might be $22,000 per flight hour or as high as $40,000 or 
$42,000 per flight hour. I don't have that at my fingertips, the flight 
hour costs for other aircraft. But that is a lot of money for a flight 
hour for any aircraft, especially a fighter aircraft. Whether it is 
$19,000 or $20,000 or $40,000 an hour, that is a lot of money for the 
kind of job we are looking for the aircraft to do.

We also look at who are we preparing to fight or what threat we are 
preparing to counter. Some people say just in case the Chinese ever 
give us trouble, to take them on we need the F-22s, or we may need 200 
more. At one time, General Corley said we needed about another 200. As 
it turns out, we have other aircraft to meet that kind of threat. I 
hope that is not going to ever materialize, because China is a major 
trading partner. I hope we don't ever get in a shooting war with them, 
nor with the Russians.

We have other fighter aircraft. We have the F-15, F-16, and the F-18. 
We are in the process of building another new fighter aircraft that 
will be a joint aircraft that will be able to do fights in the air and 
other things, including air-to-ground attacks, which the F-22 doesn't 
lend itself to do. I think we are going to build about 2,500 F-35s. It 
has broad support. We have built about 50 so far. The cost per aircraft 
for the F-35 is about $80 million. I think the cost for building a new 
F-22 is roughly $190 million. So the F-35 may be $80 million a copy, 
and the F-22, which doesn't have the capability or the viability of the 
F-35, costs about $190 million--over twice as much. That makes me 
pause, and I hope it makes some of my colleagues pause as well.

Last, everybody knows we are wrestling through a tough economic time 
in our country. We have lost a lot of jobs. We had a housing bubble and 
meltdown, a loss of jobs in banking and financial services, and a lot 
of manufacturing jobs. Chrysler and GM have gone into bankruptcy. They 
are coming out of that, and they have a new product line coming through 
the pipeline. The banks are stabilized and are lending money again, and 
some are starting to pay back to the government the money they 
borrowed.

I am bullish about where we are. It will take a while before jobs 
come back, but I think there are encouraging signs about our economy.

Having said that, a lot of people would like to have a job who don't 
have one. If we build another 190 or so F-22s, that would save some 
25,000 manufacturing, good-paying jobs. We cannot just sniff at that. 
Those are real numbers, and it is important for us in the States where 
the jobs are. If we think about it, if we are talking about building 
another almost 200 F-22s, and they cost roughly $190 million a copy, 
and we are talking about saving 25,000 jobs, if we multiply $191 
million by 194 aircraft, we come up with a total price of about $37 
billion for building those extra 194 F-22 aircraft.

If the numbers are correct, that is about $37 billion. If we divide 
that by 25,000 jobs, that turns out to be almost $1.5 million per job. 
I nearly fell over when I saw that number--$1.5 million per job. We 
have passed a stimulus package, and the Presiding Officer and I voted 
for it. It was passed with bipartisan support, and I hope it will save 
a couple million jobs. Jobs make sense. But this is a lot of money for 
jobs.

You can look at what we say we are going to spend in the stimulus 
package, the recovery bill, per job. I am not quick enough to run the 
numbers, but these are expensive jobs.

I hope if we don't build another 200 F-22s, some of the folks who can 
build them at Lockheed Martin--hopefully, some of them will be able to 
build F-35s. They cost half as much to build, and they do more things. 
Hopefully, some of them will be bought by other countries. I am not 
aware that other countries have bought the F-22, but I think a lot 
would be interested in buying the F-35, given the variety of missions, 
the versatility, and the much lower cost.

There you have it, Mr. President. I don't know if I have made a 
compelling case, but I appreciate the chance to share this with my 
colleagues and anybody else who is interested at a time when we are 
wrestling with enormous budget deficits, after 8 years where we 
literally doubled our Nation's debt, and when we are expected to run up 
the highest budget deficit in the history of our country, at a time 
when we have major cost overruns and a new weapon system, and when we 
have had literally two administrations, two Presidents, two Secretaries 
of State, and all kinds of Joint Chiefs saying: You know, we have a 
bunch of these F-22s. We have enough. It is not that we are going to 
stop spending money on national defense. We are going to spend a fair 
amount of money in Afghanistan, and even though we are drawing down the 
troops in Iraq, we are going to continue spending money in that country 
as well. The war in Afghanistan is the right war, and we need to stay 
with it and crush the Taliban, help the Pakistanis crush al-Qaida, and 
stay with the folks in Afghanistan until they can help defend 
themselves and go on to a better economy and a better life. That is the 
important thing to do.

We don't need the F-22 to do that. To the folks who have spent a 
number of years, and a lot of our money building it, we say thank you. 
But I think we have enough. We have plenty of other challenges to face.

I appreciate this opportunity to speak.

As I look around the Chamber, obviously, nobody listened with baited 
breath to what I had to say. Hopefully, they are in their offices and 
are tuned into C-SPAN II.

With that, I suggest the absence of a quorum.