---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `7eacc25cf89b329f9a53d1c2a75427f2`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, Senator Warner, Chairman Levin, thanks 
for getting these nominations up in short order.

I rise to speak in favor of the nominations of GEN David Petraeus to 
be Commander, United States Central Command, and LTG Raymond Odierno to 
be General and Commander, Multi-National Forces--Iraq.

Over the past few years under the leadership of these two men we have 
seen vast improvements in the conditions on the ground in Iraq, the 
quality and number of the Iraqi security forces, and increasing 
ownership of the political process and issues facing their country by 
the Iraqi government and the Iraqi people. These accomplishments are 
due to the efforts of our young men and women in uniform who have 
sacrificed to defend our values and build democracy in Iraq. General 
Petreaus and General Odierno have led these men and women and they have 
done so ably, wisely, and with integrity and professionalism. They are 
without question the right men for the jobs for which they have been 
nominated.

Our young soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines in Iraq and 
Afghanistan have had the opportunity to be led by some of the greatest 
military leadership we have witnessed in our era. General Petraeus and 
General Odierno embody our military values and leadership principles in 
the tradition of great military leaders who have come before them. 
These two combat veterans, who between them have served our Nation in 
uniform for over 60 years, have demonstrated that they have the skills 
and commitment to carry out and complete our mission in Iraq and 
safeguard our 150,000 servicemembers in Iraq.

With the right leadership--which these two generals can provide--Iraq 
will continue to benefit from the implementation of our current 
military and security strategy. I feel honored to have witnessed the 
efforts of these two soldiers and am certain that their leadership will 
continue to successfully guide our efforts in Iraq.

I have had the opportunity to visit one on one with both General 
Petraeus and Lieutenant General Odierno on the multiple trips I made to 
Iraq. I often refer to David Petraeus as being the best soldier that 
the U.S. Army has today. General Odierno is right there with him. They 
have the greatest men and women serving under them. Without their 
outstanding leadership, certainly we would not have been able to 
accomplish what we have in Iraq over the past year and a half.

The first time I saw David Petraeus in action in Iraq was while 
training Iraqi security forces. He did a great job correlating the 
efforts of the Iraqi military on the ground with the security forces. 
He had a way of directing the Iraqi military commanders in a way that 
was extremely unusual, very positive, and very professional.

Today, what we are seeing as a result of the efforts of David 
Petraeus is an Iraqi military that is growing stronger, more confident 
and in the short term, is going to be in a much better position than 
certainly they are even today of protecting the citizens of Iraq from 
external sources. They will also help the security forces provide 
domestic security for Iraqi citizens.

General Odierno has made great sacrifices by being away from his 
family for so long. He just returned from Iraq. Now we are asking him--
and he has graciously committed, once again, for the benefit of service 
to our country--to return to Iraq to be in the position of commander on 
the ground. He is truly a great individual and certainly his record in 
the military speaks for itself.

Both of these men deserve our utmost respect and certainly a strong 
vote in this body confirming their positions.

In closing, let me say a commitment to the military is a family 
commitment. Both General Petraeus and General Odierno have made great 
sacrifices being away from their families for extended periods of 
time--not just while they have been serving our country in Iraq and 
Afghanistan but certainly previous to that time also. I do know they 
have been away from home for an extended period of time. Without the 
great support of their families they would not have been as successful 
as


they have. I salute their families as well as saluting them both.

I urge this body to give a strong and resounding vote in favor of 
these two men for the positions for which they have respectively been 
nominated.

I yield the floor.