# REMEMBERING SENATOR PAUL WELLSTONE
## `7eb986ddeecb7c13160ff687ece545ef`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 25 October 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come to the floor to pay special 
tribute to a very special individual who is no longer with us in the 
Senate. He was a friend to me, a tremendous U.S. Senator, and he was an 
advocate for thousands and thousands of human beings across this 
country who may never have met him but for whom he spoke so eloquently. 
That was Senator Paul Wellstone.

Five years ago today, we lost that friend, that Senator, that 
passionate advocate. Still every day I come to this floor, I can see 
him here, raising his voice, throwing his arms out, speaking to 
everyone as if they were right in front of him about the issues he 
cared about.

Every one of us has special memories of Senator Wellstone, whether it 
was his speeches on the floor of the Senate as he wandered back and 
forth and put his tremendous voice to such great use. For me 
personally, it was listening to him talk about the issue of mental 
health. It was standing beside him when he introduced the bill to ban 
asbestos 6 years ago. We looked around, and we were a pretty lonely 
crowd trying to make that happen. I know he would be so proud, wherever 
he is up there today, looking down and knowing that this Senate 6 years 
later passed a ban on asbestos.

It was such issues as the war where Senator Wellstone, even though he 
was in a very tight election race at the time, stood his ground and 
said what he felt so strongly, that he could not vote for this country 
to go to war in Iraq. He feared no one in making that decision, even 
with the election he was facing.

He was a friend and partner, someone I knew so well. My best memory 
of him was going to his State. He invited me there, as we all do with 
our other colleagues when we are out campaigning and ask them to help 
us. Senator Wellstone didn't ask me to come and do a fundraiser for 
him. He didn't ask me to do a speech to some dignified crowd in some 
ballroom. He didn't ask me to come and wear a suit. He asked me to come 
to his State the week before his election and do what he called ''a 
people raiser.'' He did it in a gymnasium. He invited people to come 
and donate their time because of what he cared about, the issue he 
fought for, to bring people into politics. He did it that day in such a 
tremendous way. All of us who knew him knew he was never comfortable 
talking to a crowd that was sitting down. He had to inspire them and 
have them all standing in front of him and applauding. He did it every 
time he spoke.

I miss him so much in the Senate. It is hard to believe it was 5 
years ago that we lost such a tremendous advocate. I think he would be 
proud of the legacy he left in his own family, in the issues he left 
for many of us, and the passion as we move forward. I know if he were 
here today he would be saying: Don't talk about me. He would be in a 
back room someplace making sure we never forgot the people who sent us 
here and the tremendous issues they face at home. He would be inspiring 
somebody to stand up and speak out.

I hope we continue to do that in his memory for many years to come.