---
---

# HONORING VICTIMS OF FORT HOOD ATTACK
## `7ecb5b0755b218f5306d19dbdd511b04`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. I thank the gentleman for yielding time.

Fort Hood, Texas, has a long, long history. It is right in the center 
of the State of Texas, and many of us from the State of Texas have 
connections with that institution.

It is named after a Confederate general, John Bell Hood, who was in 
charge of the 4th Texas during the War Between the States. After the 
war was over with, it became a military installation for the United 
States Army, the biggest Army installation in the world. Those from 
every State, every territory, from all over the U.S., come and serve at 
Fort Hood, Texas; and it has been that way for a great number of years.

My father, who served in the great World War II when he was an 18-
year-old did basic training in Texas and came back home in 1945, was 
sent to Fort Hood, Texas, to be re-equipped for the invasion of Japan. 
That, fortunately, never took place. But he met my mom there in Temple, 
Texas. They got married, and that is why I was born in Temple, Texas, 
and have a great affection for that institution and all those that have 
served with the United States Army at that location.

It is now the deployment post for individuals who go overseas to 
represent the rest of us. They go to Iraq. They go to Afghanistan. They 
go to Kosovo. They go all over the world. They are being deployed at 
this time to represent our country and the values that we have. Many of 
them have served multiple tours of duty, some of them up to four tours 
of duty in Iraq. But yet they are all volunteers, they continue to 
serve, and they continue proudly to wear the United States uniform.

Approximately 40,000 people are associated with the base at Fort 
Hood, Texas. And not only the soldiers, but their families are there. 
We must remember as Americans, when troops go to war, their families go 
to war, too; only they stay home. Those Blue Star Moms and those Gold 
Star Moms, they stay here and they support our troops.

This event that occurred yesterday at Fort Hood, is an attack that 
was done by one of their own, someone who had been apparently 
radicalized, who was opposed to the war. He will be held accountable to 
the law for his actions. Hopefully, he will be tried by the State of 
Texas for his actions. But what makes this a tragedy, are the 13 that 
were killed, and the 30 that were wounded.

Yet, as my friend Mr. Wilson has pointed out, the people at the base, 
civilians and military, came to the rescue to help others, even though 
it endangered their own lives. And, today, this morning, not far from 
Fort Hood, Texas, in Temple, Texas, at Scott and White, many of those 
30 are still there, receiving treatment because of their injuries; and 
the whole community and the whole Nation needs to understand the 
importance of taking care of the survivors and the families who have 
lost those loved ones.

We owe a great deal to our military. Next week is Veterans Day, where 
we celebrate the end of the great World War I and honor the veterans 
that have served since that time. While we celebrate our veterans and 
honor them next week, we should continue to honor those who continue to 
serve and are in the military today, including those who have given 
their lives and those that have been injured because by some act of 
criminal activity against them.

So our hearts, our prayers, and our thoughts are for them, those 
brave few, those noble few, that rare breed, that unique breed, the 
American breed, who volunteer to represent the United States wherever 
they are assigned, somewhere in the world.

And that's just the way it is.