# IRAQ
## `7ecf10dc4f6e58add036344accdd972d`
`Mr. CRAIG — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I am so honored to be on the floor with 
Senator Joe Lieberman today and to listen to his remarks, frankly, to 
stand in the shadow of his leadership on this issue because he has been 
that, a bipartisan leader, recognizing, as he so appropriately has 
spoken, the leadership role that a Congress should take at this time in 
our Nation's history. And he has said it well. It is not one of 
micromanagement. It is not one of 535 generals all thinking we can act 
and think strategically about the engagement currently underway in 
Baghdad.

It is our job, I would hope, to stand united in behalf of the men and 
women we send there in uniform to accomplish what we so hope and wish 
they will be able to accomplish, and that is the stability of Iraq, the 
allowing of the Iraqi people to once again lead their country and to 
take from it the kind of radical Islamic fascism that is well underway 
and dominating the region.

Let me make a few comments this afternoon that clearly coincide with 
what Senator Lieberman has spoken to. This is not, nor should it ever 
become, a partisan issue. I think his presence on the floor this 
afternoon speaks volumes to that. This is not a partisan issue. This is 
a phenomenally important national and international issue for our 
country to be engaged in that, frankly, few countries can engage in the 
way we have and with the kind of energy and strength we have brought to 
it.

The majority leader has put us in a very precarious situation, one 
that is clearly divisive. Frankly, I can say things as a Republican 
that maybe my colleague cannot say.
