---
---

# TORT REFORM
## `7ed74300fc3a0f1b0e5aa18d01874eff`
`Mrs. CAPITO — 23 April 2007`

---


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri for 
participating tonight. He is a very able debater. I learned in our 
first debate when we debated tax reform that you are a wonderful closer 
too, so I hate to close.

But I would like to talk a little bit about civility, because it is 
very important to me. It is about being polite. It is understanding 
that we have different views and that we don't disrespect one another 
because of that. It is about believing that our ideas, yes, we believe 
our ideas are the right ideas, but it doesn't necessarily mean that the 
opposite ideas or a different idea doesn't have merit. It also doesn't 
mean that because we are in different parties, we don't have a lot of 
to give and we don't have a lot to share. I think a lot of that gets 
lost here on the floor of the House.

My great fear is because of the partisanship and the evolved 
incivility of our debate, that when that person turns on that TV or 
that young person turns on C-SPAN to watch debate, they see the rancor 
and they see the acrimonious debate and some of the language that is 
used, and what do they do? They turn it off. And then what are they 
doing? They are not listening to the merits of the topic. They are not 
listening to tax reform ideas or medical malpractice reform ideas or 
the war in Iraq differing ideas, because of the tone, and the way it is 
delivered and the words that are used have lost their way and have 
turned the American public off.

Now, when I go and speak to people in my district and I begin to talk 
like that, people start nodding their heads, you are right. We do stop 
listening. We are no longer interested.

So I think while these hallowed halls have had more than their share 
of vigorous debate, there is a good way to do it, and there is a good 
way to convey our ideas in a very civil way.

I really appreciate the way, when you said that Gerald Ford and Hale 
Boggs used to drive over together and then have lunch afterwards, I 
think it is a little late for lunch tonight, so I think we will have to 
do that another time. But I have enjoyed debating this topic. I look 
forward to the next topic that we debate. I hope that when we get 
together again, maybe we can get some of our other colleagues here and 
have more of a round-robin so we can get our colleagues not only 
involved in the debate on the topic, but also demonstrating a civil way 
to present ideas to the American public.
