---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `7eda8d6b1d0af2f38427ea9fe5377b13`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr President, I would like to engage in a brief colloquy 
with


the esteemed Senator from Hawaii, the chairman of the Defense 
Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Inouye.

The bill before us includes a significant cut of $9 million from U.S. 
SOCOM's SCAR Program--special operations combat assault rifle. The SCAR 
was selected in a fair and open competition and has undergone some of 
the most rigorous testing of any small arms program in U.S. history. It 
is widely regarded as one of the best and most versatile weapons in the 
world. While this weapon has passed all tests, the only issue now is 
what mix of versatility--7.62mm models or 5.56mm models--they want to 
have at the ODA level operational detachment alpha--that is the Special 
Forces A team level which is as close to the ground level fight as you 
can get.

I understand there are recent concerns regarding contracting delays 
and the ability to obligate these funds. I have been assured by SOCOM 
that they will be able to spend all funds requested within the 
appropriate timeframe. The Special Forces is intensely engaged in 
combat operations all over the world including Afghanistan and they 
need the versatility and capability offered by this unique weapon 
system. The President's Budget included $9.746 million for this 
program. The House-passed version of this bill fully funds the 
President's request. I would encourage the chairman to ensure this 
program is fully funded in the Senate as requested in the President's 
budget.