---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `7ee9c2e83d7efad7a80f545af5309942`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding.

You know, earlier this afternoon, our Democrat colleague, Mr. 
Skelton, a decorated war hero himself, came down to the floor and he 
posed the question, ''Have we forgotten 9/11?'' I think that this 
resolution perhaps sends the wrong message that this Congress has 
forgotten 9/11, and also the wrong message to Americans.

Just as our young men and women are always ready and always there for 
us in the military, we must show equally steadfast loyalty to them. 
Over 1.4 million men and women are bravely serving our Nation in active 
military duty today. I have attended sendoff ceremonies for the troops 
from my district headed overseas, and I have welcomed them home. I have 
rejoiced with those mothers and fathers and wives who, after months of 
not being with their loved soldier, are able to spend time with him or 
her. I have also wept for those who made the ultimate sacrifice. I have 
wept with their families. They made the ultimate sacrifice for our 
country, for our safety.

Every single soldier that I have spoken to who has been to Iraq and 
Afghanistan would say that they would go back again. They believe in 
the mission. It is pretty sad that Congress doesn't. They believe in 
the work that they're doing out there, and they need our support, not 
this resolution, which is, I believe, a demoralizing resolution to our 
troops. Rather, I would encourage my colleagues to vote against this 
resolution because by voting against this resolution I believe you will 
be voting for our troops.