# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `7ee988d3d53b114508a903448509ce2f`
`Mr. McCAIN — 21 September 2010`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the benefit of my colleagues on this 
side, we will recognize in the proper order as we go from one side to 
the other: On my side Senator Inhofe would be recognized for 10 
minutes, Senator Brown for 5 minutes, Senator Sessions for 5 minutes, 
Senator Chambliss for 5 minutes, and Senator LeMieux for 5 minutes. I 
believe that comes out to approximately 40 minutes.

Mr. President, I want to make it clear why I am opposed to moving to 
the National Defense Authorization Act of fiscal year 2011 at this 
time.

I am not opposed in principle to bringing up this Defense bill and 
debating it, amending it, and voting on it. I am not opposed to having 
a full and informed debate on whether to repeal the don't ask, don't 
tell law and then allowing the Senate to legislate.

What I am opposed to is bringing up the Defense bill now, before the 
Defense Department has concluded its survey of our men and women in 
uniform, which gives them a chance to tell us their views about don't 
ask, don't tell. Whether you agree or disagree with this policy, 
whether you want to keep it or repeal it, the Senate should not be 
forced to make this decision now, before we have heard from our troops. 
We have asked for their views, and we should wait to hear from them and 
then give their views the fullest consideration before taking any 
legislative action.

This isn't just my view. This is the view of all force service 
chiefs: GEN George Casey, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army; ADM Gary 
Roughead, Chief of Naval Operations; GEN James Conway, Commandant of 
the Marine Corps; GEN Norton Schwartz, Chief of Staff of the Air Force.

Let me quote from my colleague, GEN George Casey. Remember, these are 
the service chiefs who are responsible for the training, equipment, 
morale, and well-being of the men and women in uniform who serve under 
them. What did General Casey say? He said this:




 I remain convinced that it is critically important to get a 


 better understanding of where our soldiers and families are 


 on this issue, and what the impacts on readiness and unit 


 cohesion might be, so that I can provide informed military 


 advice to the President and the Congress. I also believe that 


 repealing the law before the completion of the review will be 


 seen by the men and women of the Army as a reversal of our 


 commitment to hear their views before moving forward.


The survey is not complete and will not be complete for some time.

Admiral Gary Roughead said this:




 We need this review to fully assess our force and carefully 


 examine potential impacts of a change in the law. My concern 


 is that legislative changes at this point, regardless of the 


 precise language used, may cause confusion on the status of 


 the law and the Fleet and disrupt the review process itself 


 by leading Sailors to question whether their input matters.


GEN James Conway, Commandant of the Marine Corps, said:




 I encourage the Congress to let the process the Secretary 


 of Defense created to run its course. Collectively, we must 


 make logical and pragmatic decisions about the long-term 


 policies of our Armed Forces--which so effectively defend 


 this great nation.


GEN Norton Schwartz, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, said:




 I believe it is important, a matter of keeping faith with 


 those currently serving in the Armed Forces, that the 


 Secretary of Defense commissioned review be completed before 


 there is any legislation to repeal the Don't Ask, Don't Tell 


 law. Such action allows me to provide the best military 


 advice to the President, and sends an important signal to our 


 Airmen and their families that their opinion matters. To do 


 otherwise, in my view, would be presumptive and would reflect 


 an intent to act before all relevant factors are assessed, 


 digested and understood.


It could not be more clear what our uniformed service chiefs are 
saying: Complete this review before repealing the law.

Then the question is: Why would the chairman of the Senate Armed 
Services Committee and the majority leader ignore the very explicit 
recommendation of the four service chiefs? One can only draw one 
conclusion: November 2 is a few days away. The President of the United 
States, we all know, made a commitment to the gay and lesbian community 
that he would have as one of his priorities repeal of the don't ask, 
don't tell policy. Looking at a bleak electoral situation, they are now 
going to jam this legislation through--or try to--in direct 
contravention to the views of our service chiefs.

I spend a great deal of time with the men and women in the military. 
It is my job. It is my job to do so, both the Guard and Reserve in 
Arizona and traveling around the world to visit our men and women in 
places such as Kandahar, Baghdad, and other places around the world. 
Every place I go, the men and women are saying: Look, let's assess the 
impact of the repeal of this law. I get that from the senior enlisted 
men whose responsibilities are great. Why are we now trying to jam this 
through without the survey being completed and without a proper 
assessment of its impact?

I urge Members not to vote in favor of bringing the bill to the floor 
at this time so the troops can be heard. Let us hear from the men and 
women who are serving in the military.

I remind my colleagues that last year, they brought up the hate 
crimes bill and then put amendments on the hate crimes bill so there 
were no other amendments allowed until the hate crimes issue was 
resolved. That is the concern of the Senator from Maine, that the 
majority leader and/or the chairman will fill up the tree--in other 
words, make it so other amendments are not allowed until this issue is 
disposed of and then, of course, other issues.

In light of all the challenges that the Defense authorization bill 
entails--training, equipment, pay, benefits, all of the aspects of 
Defense authorizations that are so vital--why would the majority leader 
and the chairman want to bring up don't ask, don't tell, then the DREAM 
Act, then secret holds, and then reserve the rest of the issues for 
after we come back after the election?

Again, one can only draw the conclusion that this is all about 
elections, not about the welfare and well-being and the morale and the 
battle effectiveness of the men and women who are


laying it on the line in Iraq and Afghanistan today.

The most fundamental thing we could do to honor the sacrifices of our 
troops is to take the time to listen respectfully and carefully to what 
they have to say about this major change before the Senate takes any 
legislative action.

If the Senate goes down this path, we would be ignoring the views of 
the troops and casting aside the professional military advice given by 
each of the four service chiefs, all four of whom oppose the Senate 
taking any action on don't ask, don't tell before we hear from the 
troops.

By the way, the way the legislation is framed, the service chiefs are 
not involved in the final decision; only the President, the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Secretary of Defense are. Why in the 
world before the certification is made would not the service chiefs be 
required to certify that as well?

This is not about filibustering. It is not about the reasons why we 
are not taking up this legislation or why I am opposing this 
legislation. It is all about the battle effectiveness, the morale of 
the men and women who are serving in the military today who have 
volunteered to put their lives on the line so the rest of us may live 
in a safe and secure environment. We owe them a right to have their 
voices heard before we act legislatively, motivated by the upcoming 
election.

Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Oklahoma.