---
---

# STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `7efda263cc4aa9190c93d9f381cd6adc`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 11 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me thank Mr. Castle and 
Ms. DeGette for their outstanding leadership.

Might I just simply call the roll: Parkinson's disease, diabetes, 
Alzheimer's, ALS, cancer, spinal cord injuries, and the many soldiers 
that are in the hospitals of America, Walter Reed, Bethesda, who have 
suffered from spinal cord injuries in the battle of Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We owe them hope. We owe them hope for the hopeless.

As I listened to my friends talk about the existing research, let it 
be clear that the NIH approved lines lack the genetic diversity that 
researchers need in order to develop effective treatment for millions 
of Americans.

We know that there is amniotic fluid, and there is some suggestion 
that that is a substitute. But George Daley from Harvard says that 
these newly discovered cells are not a replacement for embryonic stem 
cells. On the contrary, research for these is entirely complimentary.

As Michael J. Fox has said, I respect and counsel and thank those who 
prayerfully disagree with me. I respect their moral standing. But 
ethicists and others believe this is the right way to go. Let us give 
hope to the hopeless. Support stem cell research.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3, the ''Stem Cell 
Research Enhancement Act of 2007.'' Once again we find ourselves in a 
position to pass a bill that will provide our nation's scientists with 
the valuable opportunity to save lives. It is our duty as 
representatives of the people to help Americans who are suffering.

In 1998, the very first stem cells were isolated, leading to the 
immediate realization of the enormous possibilities this discovery 
presents. Suddenly treatments, even cures, seemed possible for 
devastating illnesses like Parkinson's disease, diabetes, Alzheimer's, 
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), cancer, and spinal cord injuries.

Despite restrictions on federal funding imposed by President Bush in 
2001, the states of California, New Jersey, Connecticut, Illinois, and 
Maryland have provided funding for this important research. In 2005 and 
again last year, we learned that in spite of the President's continued 
opposition to stem cell research, support for it in Congress 
transcended party lines.

Unfortunately, the embryonic stem cells currently permitted by law 
for research are not sufficient for scientists needs. According to the 
National Institute of Health (NIH), of more than 60 stem cell lines 
that were declared eligible for federal funding in 2001, only about 22 
lines are actually available for study by and distribution to 
researchers. These NIH-approved lines lack the genetic diversity that 
researchers need in order to develop effective treatments for millions 
of Americans. Opponents of this bill repeat statistics on the little 
progress that has been made with embryonic stem cell research, but I 
must remind them that the restrictions placed on it have greatly 
hindered its success.

In spite of recent scientific breakthroughs that suggest alternate 
means of obtaining stem cells, I must caution my colleagues from 
thinking that embryonic stem cell research is no longer necessary. I 
applaud Dr. Anthony Atala and his team at Wake Forest University and 
Harvard University for their very recent outstanding discoveries. 
However, I must repeat the caution of Harvard researcher George Daley 
in saying that these newly discovered cells ''are not a replacement for 
embryonic stem cells''--on the contrary, research for these is entirely 
complementary. In addition, while we know very little about these new 
methods, much progress has already been made in the research of 
embryonic, or pluripotent, stem cells, the most adaptable and


unique of all the stem cell varieties. They currently provide 
scientists with the most possibilities for research and for the 
discovery of life-saving treatments; as such, we must allow these 
scientist the opportunity to do so.

It is understandable that many Americans may have moral conflicts 
with this issue, but this bill is ethical in every respect. First, 
embryonic stem cells are only clusters of cells, and do not have the 
capability to develop into a fetus or a human being. Also, not a single 
embryo will be destroyed in order for this research to be implemented, 
because there is no need to do so. It is estimated that more than 
400,000 excess frozen embryos exist in the United States today and that 
tens of thousands, and perhaps as many as 100,000, are discarded every 
year.

Further, H.R. 3 ensures that none of the embryos used in stem cell 
research is intended for implantation in a woman. All of these embryos 
would otherwise be discarded. Mr. Speaker, denying people in our nation 
who suffer from debilitating illnesses the possible medical benefits 
that could result from embryonic research is not only cruel but a waste 
of these valuable life-sustaining stem cells.

This is indeed a matter of ethics--we cannot morally argue that it is 
better to deny suffering people hope for a cure. Let us provide all 
people in this world with possibilities for a better future by 
supporting stem cell research. Let us create the potential for miracles 
in the lives of paralyzed individuals, those with cancer, or those in 
need of organ transplants.

This bill provides a limited--yet significant--change in current 
policy that would result in making many more lines of stem cells 
available for research. If we limit the opportunities and resources our 
researchers have today, we only postpone the inevitable breakthrough. 
Our vote today may determine whether that breakthrough is made by 
Americans, or not.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill, to vote in favor 
of scientific innovation, and to vote in favor of a perfect compromise 
between the needs of science and the boundary of our principles. 
Finally, the Texas Medical Center is located in Houston, it is a major 
research site and in desperate need for being giving the hope of Stem 
Cell Research--I urge support for H.R. 3--Stem Cell Research.


























January 9, 2007.


 Hon. Sheila Jackson-Lee,


 Rayburn HOB,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Representative: I am writing today to express my 


 strong support for the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act.



 As you may know, I am pro-research, pro-science and support 


 all forms of stem cell research. Every scientist I've spoken 


 to (and a lot more I haven't) believes that embryonic stem 


 cells may hold the key to better treatments and cures--not 


 only for Parkinson's disease but for cancer, diabetes, spinal 


 cord injuries, heart disease, Alzheimer's and countless other 


 illnesses that cut short or diminish millions of lives every 


 year.



 My own Foundation has funded this promising research, 


 giving hope to millions of people worldwide. But under 


 current restrictions, our ability to build on early 


 breakthroughs is deeply compromised.



 No matter where you are on the issue of stem cell research, 


 one thing is fundamentally clear: disease is a non-partisan 


 issue that requires a bi-partisan solution.



 A majority of the House of Representatives, a majority of 


 the United States Senate, and over two-thirds of Americans 


 support expanded funding for stem cell research. We 


 understand that embryonic stem cell research holds the 


 potential to transform microscopic cells already marked for 


 destruction into life-saving treatments.



 I have great respect for those who have concluded, after 


 much thought, reflection, and prayer, that they cannot 


 support embryonic stem cell research.



 But the debate today is over the use of embryos discarded 


 by in vitro fertilization clinics. Indeed, this is the 


 ultimate rescue operation. These embryos have the potenital 


 to rescue millions or people from terrible diseases and in 


 doing so they will not be created then discarded in vain.



 Personally, I can't think of a greater affirmation of the 


 culture of life than to advance the fight against disease by 


 increasing federal funding for biomedical research. Equally 


 crucial is to remove undue restrictions on important paths 


 forward, including embryonic stem cell research.



 The Senate and House of Representatives will soon consider 


 the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, a vital piece of 


 legislation that could lift current federal funding 


 prohibitions and improve oversight of embryonic stem cell 


 research.



 You can make a difference by co-sponsoring and voting yes 


 on the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. I urge you with 


 all my heart to support this bill and deliver hope to every 


 person affected by debilitating disease.



 America is about optimism, about promise, about always 


 moving forward. The idea of rejecting one of the most 


 promising areas of research is shortsighted. We have no way 


 of knowing where the next breakthrough will emerge.



 I very much appreciate your consideration of this matter 


 and look forward to working with you this year to pass this 


 important legislation and allow the science to move forward.





 Thank you,

























 Michael J. Fox.
