---
---

# None
## `7f0e702178b6d10cc993c5101f52409f`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 12 December 2007`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. I want to thank my distinguished chairman 
for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, while the holiday season is a time of joy for most 
Americans, it can be a very difficult period for our servicemembers and 
their families. When I sit down with members of our all-volunteer 
force, whether it's in my district or in the mess halls in Iraq, I'm 
very aware of the stress military service can have on our 
servicemembers and, of course quite specifically, on all of their 
family members as well. The stress of being deployed over the holidays 
can only be more difficult.

Mr. Speaker, a vital component of our strong national defense is the 
ability to care for members of our force, as well as recruit and retain 
men and women to serve in the military. To quote the first Commander in 
Chief, ''The willingness with which our young people are likely to 
serve in any war, no matter how justified, shall be directly 
proportional to how they perceive the veterans of earlier wars were 
treated and appreciated by their Nation.'' With this bill, current and 
future generations of servicemembers will know that their Nation cares 
for their sacrifice.

Mr. Speaker, why is this bill important to men and women in uniform? 
It provides a 3 percent across-the-board pay raise for our troops. The 
compensation we provide our servicemembers must remain competitive with 
the private sector.

We were also successful in making major improvements to the Reserve 
Montgomery GI Bill. For the first time there is a 10-year portability 
in benefits for Reservists so they can continue to receive educational 
assistance after they separate.

Additionally, this bill will help services recruit and retain 
desperately needed health care professionals by prohibiting any further 
conversion of military medical professionals to civilian positions.

Mr. Speaker, most importantly, the mental health needs of our troops 
continue to grow, and this bill includes a number of provisions that 
will improve access to quality care for members and their families. The 
creation of Centers of Excellence on TBI and PTSD is just one example.

This report also includes a number of the recommendations from the 
Dole-Shalala Commission, including an expansion of the Family and 
Medical Leave Act to cover family members of those on active duty so 
they can care for wounded servicemembers on extended leave for up to 26 
workweeks. Family members will no longer have to choose between keeping 
their jobs and caring for a wounded loved one.

This bill addresses one of the concerns Members have heard from their 
constituent Reservists, early retirement. The bill would reduce the age 
at which a member of the Ready Reserve can draw retired pay below the 
age of 60 by 3 months for every aggregate 90 days of active duty 
performed under specified circumstances.

Mr. Speaker, there is so much more I wish we could do for our men and 
women who serve, but I feel that this bill represents the best efforts 
of this body to provide for our Nation's Armed Forces and their 
families.

I would like to thank my predecessor, Representative Snyder, and 
ranking member, Representative McHugh, and the Personnel Subcommittee 
staff for all of their hard work on this conference report.