---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `7f1533946c199c05c44aa36b4e31baaa`
`Mr. KERRY — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, let me begin first of all by thanking the 
distinguished chairman of the finance committee on which I have the 
pleasure of serving, whose leadership has been critical in bringing 
this bill to the floor. He and Senator Grassley, Senator Rockefeller, 
and Senator Hatch deserve the thanks of children all across America, of 
all those advocacy groups fighting for children's health care, and 
certainly of our colleagues who care about it and have been fighting 
for it for a long time. They have shown real leadership in bringing 
about an important compromise by fashioning a bill that was reported 
out of committee with bipartisan support.

We all understand how difficult that can be, sometimes. Sometimes the 
negotiations in our committee are out of balance because of the 
membership of the committee and you may have a different feeling when 
you finally get to the floor. So I applaud the Senator from Montana. I 
will say up front, I know that if he had his druthers, he would vote 
for this on the floor of the Senate now. I also know when you are the 
chairman and you fashion a compromise in your committee, you have to 
stick with your compromises. Everybody here understands how that works. 
So I recognize that this is an amendment that is difficult for him in 
the context of this overall bill.

But I ask my colleagues to think about this amendment outside of the 
inside game of the Senate. I ask my colleagues to think about this 
amendment outside of the parliamentary agreements that have to be made 
in order to get something out of the committee and actually get it to 
the floor so we can all consider it. But I also ask my colleagues to 
remember that when it gets to the floor, we have a chance to vote as 
Senators, all of us--not as members of the committee. Certainly, the 
vast majority of the Senate is not bound by what happened in a 
committee. We are bound by our responsibility, each and every one of 
us, to our constituents in our States and to our beliefs about what is 
best for the country.

I believe, first of all, the legislation that the Senator from 
Montana and the Senator from Iowa, Senator Grassley, have brought to 
the floor is important for the country. I think everybody agrees on 
that. I think this bill is going to pass with a pretty significant 
vote, ultimately, at its current $35 billion level. But as we debate 
the future of health for our children, I think we have a responsibility 
to think about it above and beyond the compromising process of the 
Senate.

I believe we have to think about it in macro policy terms and also--I 
know the word gets bandied around here on the floor, and it doesn't 
always have a lot of meaning anymore--in ''moral'' terms. We have a lot 
of difficulty sometimes translating what is moral in most people's eyes 
into legislation. But the fact is I heard Senators on both sides of the 
aisle, and particularly some of those most responsible for helping to 
negotiate this on the other side of the aisle--I have heard them say we 
have a moral imperative to take care of children's health care. I have 
heard them say we ought to be covering all children.

Of course, we ought to try to cover all children, but isn't it a 
shame that we can't seem to do that because it costs too much. The 
Senator from Mississippi came to the floor and spoke about this. He 
talked about how some want an increase of $50 billion or more and 
suggested that I approach this purely with an attitude where I say 
let's decide how many kids we ought to cover, and it does not matter 
what it costs, let's go pay for it. Well, that is a little bit of a 
misinterpretation of what I have actually said about it. I have said we 
ought to decide if we think it is worthwhile to cover all children, and 
then see if we can pay for it. I did not say pay for it no matter what. 
See if we can pay for it, but at least decide what your priority is.


If your priority is to cover children which is an important moral 
imperative, it has a value to our society, it makes a difference to the 
lives of children, to the lives of the community, the cost of 
hospitals, the cost of health care, the ability to learn, the ability 
to grow up and be a full citizen, you measure those and you come to the 
conclusion hey, this is a good idea, we ought to do this for all kids. 
Then, you have an obligation to begin to weigh where the money comes 
from and what the choices are with respect to what you spend money on.

The Senator from Mississippi suggested we have to worry about the 
cost of the program and who pays for it. Yep, we do, I say to my 
friend. And he is a good friend, the Senator from Mississippi. We do 
have to worry about it. But let's measure what people appear to be 
worried about. Let's measure about why children's health care is a 
priority.

First, I want to do the ''why.'' What we do here with respect to 
children is not a Democratic priority or Republican priority. It ought 
to be the priority of every single Senator. I know most of the Senators 
here have families, have children, and are deeply concerned about kids 
and understand these issues.

The real face of this debate does not belong to Senator Baucus or 
Senator Grassley or Senator Rockefeller or Senator Hatch or anyone else 
who is here arguing about this. The real face of this debate belongs to 
young kids all across our country who suffer enormous debits on a 
lifetime basis because they do not have health care.

The face of this is somebody like 9-year-old Alexsiana Lewis and her 
mother, Dedra, who come from Springfield, MA. Senator Kennedy--
incidentally, I honor Senator Kennedy's work in this, as we all ought 
to, because it was his visionary leadership that helped to create the 
S-CHIP program in 1997. He has constantly been working to build bridges 
to bring people together to try to sustain and expand the program ever 
since.

Senator Kennedy and I went to the Children's Hospital in Boston, a 
famous hospital where kids come from all over our country. And the 
stories of curing and caring that are exhibited in that hospital on a 
daily basis are just extraordinary. Well, we met there Alexsiana Lewis 
and her mother. Alexsiana, 9 years old, was losing her vision due to a 
very rare eye disease. Her mother, Dedra, had lost her health 
insurance, like millions of Americans. We have about 45 to 47 million 
Americans who have no health care at all right now; 9 million of them 
are children.

Dedra lost her health insurance. Why did she lose her health 
insurance? She lost her health insurance because she cut back on the 
hours she was working in order to be able to take care of her child who 
had this rare disease. And here is what she said at that meeting with 
Senator Kennedy and myself.

She said: ''If I did not have Mass Health right now''--that is the 
Massachusetts health program we have in place now funded by S-CHIP--
''my daughter would be blind.''

So my question to my colleagues in the Senate is very simple: 
Somewhere in your States all across this country there is another 
Alexsiana Lewis, or there is another Dedra who is cutting back on her 
job. There are going to be about 5.7 million children who do not get 
any coverage when we finish passing this legislation.

Now, my question is, is that the choice of the Senate measured 
against


the other choices that we could make? Is it our choice that it is OK 
for an Alexsiana to go blind? Is it OK in your State for some child to 
have a chronic ailment who will not get the early intervention, the 
early care, and as a result will probably wind up with a lifetime 
impairment that will require that child to have special needs education 
for the rest of their life?

I went out to the State of Washington a couple of years ago. I had 
recently introduced my Kids First Health Care Plan. And we had about 
1,200 people show up. The chief pediatrician for the State of 
Washington came to this event in Seattle. She stood up and told the 
story of a 12-year-old child who was disruptive in the classroom. 
Ultimately, they kicked the child out of the classroom because the 
child was disruptive. They thought the child was just acting out. 
Ultimately, that child finally, for the first time, got to a doctor and 
they found that the child was suffering, not acting out. The child had 
a chronic infection which spread to the eardrum, and this chronic 
infection was creating such pain that the child was acting out due to 
the pain. Now, at the final moment where they diagnosed what was wrong, 
they found out that child indeed would have a hearing impairment for 
the rest of that child's life. No health insurance and acting out in 
class leads to teacher responding and the child finally gets diagnosed 
as hearing impairment and will require special needs education. What is 
the rationale? What is the rationale for saying all we can afford is 
$35 billion over five years, at a moment when people across this 
country are losing faith in the ability of Washington to be responsible 
and make responsible choices on their behalf?

I think it is important that we answer that question properly. And I 
will tell you, when I look at some of the choices we have, it is pretty 
hard to answer how we are answering it properly. Let me give a few 
examples to my colleagues. This is a choice the Senate is going to 
make. If the alternative minimum tax relief is extended, as everybody 
expects it will be, tax cuts for those earning over $1 million a year 
will cost $43 billion in 2007 alone. Think about that.

We are saying we cannot afford to cover children to the tune of an 
additional $15 billion over 5 years, but we can give $43 billion of tax 
cuts next year to people earning more than $1 million a year. That is 
obscene. It is ridiculous. It has absolutely no basis in economic 
argument, and it certainly has no basis in any kind of moral or decent 
argument.

If you were simply to restore the tax cut to the level before 2001, 
to only taxable income above $1 million, you would have $44 billion and 
you could insure children. You would be affecting 0.21 percent, of all 
taxpayers with positive tax liability in the United States. That is one 
choice.

Here is another choice Congress seems to be content to make. 
Currently, major integrated oil and gas companies are eligible for the 
domestic manufacturing deduction, which reduces their corporate tax 
rate. In other words, we know fossil fuel is contributing to global 
warming, but we nevertheless are willing to continue our own dependency 
on it and give a tax break that encourages people to be able to do what 
they are going to do anyway because the marketplace is showing that the 
price of energy is such. These are some of the most profitable 
companies in the world.

But oh, boy, give them a tax break instead. There is absolutely no 
valid reason whatsoever that the most profitable oil companies in the 
world ought to be receiving a subsidy, a deduction, at this time when 
they are reaping record profits. But guess what, the Finance Committee 
tried to repeal it and the rest of the Senate did not agree. This 
deduction cost $9.4 billion over the next 10 years, but we do not have 
enough money for children.

We didn't close a loophole in our Tax Code for the poor fuel 
economy--we actually reward gas-guzzling SUV manufacturers. They get 
$13 billion worth of tax breaks to produce the most gas guzzling cars 
on the road, the worst fuel efficiency of any car, and we are 
subsidizing that over children. I do not get it.

I think most Americans, if they had a list of the things that the 
U.S. Congress gives to big business over children, would laugh at the 
language they hear when they hear people say: Oh, we have to cover 
children. There is a real value to covering all of these children.

Here is another one. Most American families do not get this one. If 
you are a company, you can defer paying U.S. taxes on any foreign 
income. So you can be an American company and just keep your income 
drawing offshore, and you do not pay any tax. It can accrue year to 
year. And repeal of this provision is about $53 billion over 10 years. 
Also, it is a huge incentive for companies to take their, you know, 
subsidiaries and other companies offshore and just grow their profits 
offshore at the expense of American jobs.

There is a long list of choices, similar choices: $12 billion a month 
in Iraq, going into the sixth year of the war in Iraq; now we are in 
the fifth year of the war, now a policy that everyone in the world 
understands is not working. I believe there is a better proposal.

Now, again, I say $35 billion, of course, is better than nothing. But 
it is incredible to me that we are in this position where the 
administration is talking about vetoing $35 billion, and we are not 
willing to do what is necessary to really get the job done.

Let me say that I am pleased that there is a provision that I 
authored with Senator Smith and Senators Kennedy and Domenici to ensure 
that there is mental health parity in this State Children's Health 
Insurance Program. And parity for mental health treatment is a very 
significant and very much needed improvement in SCHIP.

Instead of discriminating against mental health, which is effectively 
what we are doing today, we can offer services that actually improve 
children's performance in school, that keeps them out of trouble in the 
juvenile justice system, and helps them lead better lives, filled with 
a lot more opportunity and promise.

But $35 billion over 5 years, let me ask colleagues to measure that. 
Why have we decided to spend $35 billion at all? Why do we have a 
program called the Children's Health Insurance Program? If it is worth 
spending $35 billion, doesn't the same rationale apply to the rest of 
the children who do not have health insurance?

Where is the big hand of God coming down and saying: You all over 
here, you get health insurance; and you over here, you do not because 
we think it is more important that millionaires get a tax cut. We think 
it is more important that gas-guzzling vehicles get a tax break, and we 
think it is more important that oil companies with the biggest profits 
in the country get their money. That is the choice. That is what is 
happening.

We have some colleagues who just do not want to bend. That is why 
this agreement had to be reached. I understand the Senator from Iowa--I 
am not blaming Senator Grassley from Iowa. I respect what he has tried 
to do. He held the line to get the $35 billion.


I respect what Senator Baucus had to do because we are struggling to 
get votes. If you don't get over 60 votes, you can't do something. But 
I think some of those folks who are reluctant to sort of embrace 
reality ought to step back and question this.

Let me come to another point. I have told my colleagues how we pay 
for this. First of all, the $35 billion is paid for with a cigarette 
tax. The cigarette tax I am in favor of, but we know, unfortunately, it 
is also regressive in a certain way, though hopefully it deters people 
from smoking. But a whole bunch of poor folks and folks moving to the 
middle class or folks in the middle class are stuck with their habit 
and smoke, and they are going to pay a lot of that tax. We would love 
it if it stopped them from smoking, but we all know that is not going 
to happen automatically. So here we are looking at how else could you 
get more kids covered.

What is important about my amendment is that it covers the kids who 
are eligible for Medicaid. It has a more efficient avoidance of the 
topic we have heard debated, the crowd-out. People are talking about 
not encouraging people who currently have private insurance to drop the 
private insurance to get covered by the State insurance. We obviously 
don't want that to happen. The fact is that my amendment targets the 
coverage toward those at 200 percent of poverty or below. So you are 
mostly targeting Medicaid-eligible children. It is astonishing to me 
that those are the kids most in need of it, and they are still left out 
if we don't


pass this amendment. We are trying to get the poorest of the poor. We 
are trying to get the kids on Medicaid. We still don't fully cover the 
kids on Medicaid with the $35 billion, even though, obviously, it is an 
improvement. I will vote for the improvement, and I will vote for the 
bill. But I still believe we ought to be doing more.

I just went to Fall River, MA, the other day to visit a bunch of 
workers. We have 900 workers there who have been laid off permanently, 
let go from a plant, Quaker Fabric, that closed. It closed, 
incidentally, on a weekend's notice, despite the fact that we have a 
law about plant closings. They are supposed to let workers know ahead 
of time what is happening. I went to visit with these people. The 
biggest single question on their minds was: What am I going to do about 
my health care? How am I going to cover my kids? What am I going to do? 
I met people who worked there for 35 years, 27 years, 25 years, all at 
the same place. They were loyal to the plant, and their 2-week vacation 
started on a Friday. On Monday, they got a call and they were told: The 
plant is closing. Sorry. That is it. What is more important--covering 
their children or making sure people who earn more than $1 million a 
year get $43 billion worth of tax cuts?

Astonishingly, the President of the United States is threatening to 
veto new money for this program. Even at $35 billion, he is threatening 
that. That means the choice the President wants to offer is either 
Congress can do not enough or do nothing at all. I don't think that is 
the appropriate choice.

The President has also initiated a disinformation campaign--I guess 
disinformation campaigns are not new, but it is another disinformation 
campaign--to denounce this bill as a larger Democratic strategy or plot 
to somehow massively federalize medicine. I understand the President 
offered to veto it before he had even read it. Confronted with a 
bipartisan compromise to extend health coverage to half of the 9 
million American children without insurance today, the President 
apparently only sees some sort of a leftwing conspiracy to try to 
federalize health insurance. It is almost laughable. I don't think 
anybody really believes that is what is about to go on, but it sure is 
one of those scary phrases that create a knee-jerk response in certain 
sectors of the body politic.

The SCHIP program is, like Medicaid before it, a Federal-State 
partnership. It is not a Federal program; it is a Federal-State 
partnership. Ironically, it happens to use private providers as the 
principal people involved to provide the service. So it is a Federal-
State-private sector partnership. It is very hard to understand how the 
specter of ''federalism'' somehow can get in the way of that.

Another misleading statement we have heard is that SCHIP is a 
Democratic Trojan horse for socialized medicine. I have to laugh at 
that. I was here when we did the 1994 debate on health care. I did not 
sign on to the plan that was offered by the White House in 1994. There 
were a number of problems. It doesn't matter what they were. I didn't 
sign on. I worked hard with Senator Bill Bradley, with Senator John 
Chafee, Senator Bob Dole, and others. We had a compromise that, in 
fact, if it had been adopted, it had a back-end mandate with the 
private sector being tapped to provide additional health insurance to 
Americans. I believe we could have passed it, but there wasn't the mood 
for a compromise at that point in time. Had it passed 4 years ago, we 
would have been at about 99 percent of Americans covered by health 
insurance. That was the opportunity which was missed.

But one thing I learned, you ain't going to see socialized, 
Government-run health care in America probably during our lifetimes. It 
is just not in the makeup. There are plenty of ways to put health 
insurance out there that are more affordable. I offered one of those 
ways in 2004. That is as viable and as urgent today and, frankly, as 
compelling today as an approach where you can reduce the cost of all 
premiums, take catastrophic health insurance off the backs of 
businesses and Americans, and lower the cost of health insurance, 
provide unbelievable streamlining of the delivery of the system, and 
let every American choose where they want to go. It is far more 
efficient than what we have today.

This red herring, phony debate, straw debate is inappropriate to the 
cause of children. It doesn't do justice to any of us.

It also is ironic that some of the most significant efforts to expand 
the Children's Health Insurance Program have come from Republican 
Governors. The President's former budget director, Mitch Daniels, the 
current Governor of Indiana, has recently expanded eligibility for 
children's health insurance to 300 percent of the Federal poverty level 
or roughly $60,000 for a family of four. Something is seriously wrong 
when as good a numbers-cruncher as Mitch Daniels and as tough a budget 
critic, as we all know, can go out to Indiana, which is a pretty 
centrist conservative State, and wind up expanding health insurance for 
kids up to 300 percent of poverty. There is a real disconnect in this 
debate.

The President likes to claim the new program is somehow going to push 
families like those from private insurance to government health care. 
But Governor Daniels and a lot of Governors like him understand that is 
not the case. With the cost of private insurance for that same family 
approaching $12,000 a year, the real choice for most American families 
today is either SCHIP or no health care at all because of the current 
rise in costs. In fact, the National Governors Association this past 
week sent yet another bipartisan letter to the President stating their 
support for the bipartisan reauthorization bill that provides increased 
funding for SCHIP now moving through the Senate.

Finally, SCHIP is not Government run. The vast majority of SCHIP and 
of Medicaid enrollees receive their coverage through private insurance 
plans working under contract with the States to administer benefits. 
So, far from socialized medicine, it represents the kind of commonsense 
public-private partnership that ought to be a model for greater health 
care reform.

A lot of families I have met all across the country are scared they 
will not have adequate health care for their kids. The President's 
response to that was--I think about a week ago--Well, they have health 
care. They can just go to the emergency room. I don't know how many 
Senators have been to emergency rooms lately. First, they are all 
overcrowded. I know that at Mass General, which is one of the best 
hospitals in America, in Boston, sometimes it is so crowded it takes 
hours to get people processed except for the most traumatic who come 
in. You have people on gurneys in the halls of hospitals all across 
America, different waiting periods. It is extraordinary what has 
happened. The degree to which emergency rooms have become the primary 
care facility for Americans is shocking. Hospitalized children--this is 
important--without health insurance are twice as likely to die from 
their injuries as those with coverage. Uninsured kids are only half as 
likely to receive any medical care in a given year.

We all go to schools and talk to teachers, and we go into 
communities. We have townhalls, and we listen to voters. I can't tell 
my colleagues how many times I have heard a teacher tell me how 
difficult it is to teach a whole class of kids, which is usually an 
overcrowded class of kids, where many of those children don't have 
health care. We know that kids who have health care do 68 percent 
better in school. Here we are, a country that is struggling with an 
education system that is not keeping up with competitors around the 
world. We don't graduate enough scientists or engineers, researchers, 
and so forth. One of the things it is related to, in terms of the 
choices children have in their long-term education, is whether they get 
health care and screening early.

Someone who has health care is more likely to get an early diagnosis 
of whatever the problem is. If you are a child and you have an 
irregular heartbeat or a hole in your heart or you have some other 
disorder, early diabetes onset or even autistic tendencies, if you 
don't get to a doctor and the parent doesn't see those indices and 
isn't able to understand them for what they might be and get somewhere 
to get the care, the odds are that child is going to wind up costing 
everybody a lot more, not to mention what is going to happen to that 
child's life.

I hope my colleagues will take a hard look at this. I hope the 
President will


reconsider his decision to veto it. I know Senator Baucus and Senator 
Rockefeller have negotiated the best bipartisan package they could. 
Again, I commend them for doing so. But here on the floor of the 
Senate, we have an opportunity to work our will as a Senate. We have an 
opportunity to make a different statement. I believe we ought to be 
investing at least $50 billion. The Senate passed in its budget--this 
is in the budget today--$50 billion for children's health care. The 
only reason it has come to the floor at $35 billion is because some 
people refuse to let it come out of committee or take any shape other 
than that at this moment in time.

The best way to finance that $15 billion is to do what is fair and to 
make one of those choices we are called on to make. There are countless 
choices in this budget. We have 27,000 pages or so--I think more than 
that now--of Tax Code that fill volumes. Most of those pages do not 
apply to average Americans. Most of those pages apply to those who have 
been able to lobby Washington, to those who have been able to bring 
their cause to this city.

These are children. Children's lobbies reflect a lot of different 
organizations, but it seems to me we have an opportunity to enroll the 
lowest income of uninsured children by increasing the bonus payments 
available to States so they meet or surpass their targets. We don't 
mandate them to do so. We leave the discretion up to the States. They 
have wide discretion with the waivers they have today as to how they 
administer the programs. They have proven themselves very capable and 
very creative in doing so.

I hope, as a matter of priority, we make a bipartisan down payment of 
no less than $50 billion toward health care coverage for all our 
children. The only excuse for not spending more is saying: Oh, we 
cannot afford that. When somebody says we cannot afford that, then you 
have to look at what we are choosing to afford. That is the real test 
of the balance of what we care about and of where we are willing to put 
our votes.

I yield the floor.