# SCHIP AND EARMARK REFORM
## `7f16bec9e37d38fda65e2afb48d21e18`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Madam Speaker, I thank my leadership for allowing me to 
lead the time during this next hour. And my intention, Madam Speaker 
and my colleagues, is to talk about something that is hugely important 
in this town, in this body, and across this country, and, of course, 
that is the issue of earmarks.

But, Madam Speaker, before I get to that, I couldn't help but hear my 
colleagues on the other side, the freshmen Democrats, who just spoke 
about the SCHIP program. I will say this, Madam Speaker: they spoke 
well. They spoke in a very articulate manner. I commend them for their 
sense of presence in this body. They are all doing a great job.

But, Madam Speaker, talking about overstating and being over the top 
on some of the comments that were made that I just heard over this last 
hour listening to my colleagues, it's amazing.

The gentleman from Minnesota was critical of the President, 
overstating the issue of the SCHIP program in regard to covering 
children from families up to 400 percent of the Federal poverty level. 
I don't necessarily argue with the gentleman over that point. But then 
the doctor from Wisconsin went on to make a comment, and I think I am 
accurate in quoting him. He suggested that the Commander in Chief, the 
President of the United States, went to Iraq over lies. Then he went on 
to say that the country needs more than a President who refuses to obey 
the rule of law.

Now, you talk about overstatements and embellishing and really 
getting entirely off the subject. So I just want to remind my 
colleagues, let's do indeed stick to the facts.

The facts, Madam Speaker, in regard to the State of Wisconsin, my 
good friend, the good doctor, the allergist from Wisconsin, I would 
quickly point out to him that in his State, he showed that picture, 
that kind of heart-rendering, tugging-at-your-heart-strings picture of 
the mother and child, the mom, Wendy, and the child, Cassidy, and sort 
of making his point that we need to expand this SCHIP coverage by 140 
percent to cover 6.4 million children that we are covering under the 
current program, but to increase that to over 10 million children.

Well, not only that, Madam Speaker and my colleagues, but the 
gentleman from Wisconsin, in his State 66 percent of the people that 
are covered under the SCHIP program are the Wendys, not the Cassidys. 
Mom and dad that have maybe one child that are in that income bracket, 
100 to, I think, in Wisconsin it goes up to 180 percent of the Federal 
poverty level. Not only are the children covered but the parents are 
covered as well such that in that State, 66 percent of the total people 
covered are adults, not children at all. And Wisconsin is not the most 
egregious State, Madam Speaker. There are a number of others.

The State of Minnesota, the gentleman from Minnesota was leading the 
time. I think probably 70 percent in Minnesota are adults.

And if my colleagues want to come down, I will yield to them if they 
want to dispute those figures and we will talk about it. I would be 
proud to have them interrupt me and get in a colloquy, in fact, about 
this.

So I am here tonight during this Special Hour, Madam Speaker, to talk 
about earmark reform, and we will get to that. But I think this is just 
really


important because this is a historic vote tomorrow. This is a historic 
vote. And colleagues on both sides of the aisle will have an 
opportunity to say do we want to reauthorize a good program, you might 
say even a Republican program with Senators like Senator Hatch back in 
1997 when this program was started. Not an entitlement program, Madam 
Speaker, no. Not an entitlement program. A block grant lasting 10 
years, spending about $1 billion a year on the program to cover 6 
million children. And, yes, we Republicans, we fiscal conservatives, 
and the President of the United States have a compassion, and we 
understand that Biblical phrase ''suffer the little children'' that the 
Speaker likes to use over and over again in trying to make her point.

But we want to make sure that we cover those children that have the 
greatest need, those children between 100 and 200 percent of the 
Federal poverty level. And there are almost 750,000 to 1 million of 
those kids, those children, in those families who have fallen through 
the cracks. The States have not done a good enough job of finding them.

Madam Speaker, I am very, very proud of my State of Georgia. I 
represent the northwest part of that State, District 11. We have lots 
of children in this program. In fact, in Georgia we are covering about 
280,000 children. And we still are missing a few. But they are not 
children and families making 300 percent of the Federal poverty level. 
That's $63,000 a year. And if you allow that, as this new Democratic 
expansion does, as a matter of routine, and then you also say not only 
do the children, each child in that family, one, two, five, whatever, 
but their parents also get coverage, well, that's why I'm just trying 
to make this point.

I love my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. These four freshmen 
Democrats are outstanding Members, and they speak very well, as I said. 
They just speak facts that are not factual and they embellish their 
points, and I think that the truth needs to be told on this.

The truth is that we in the minority now, we want to expand this 
program. We voted for the continuing resolution so that it did not 
expire. We will vote to sustain the President's veto tomorrow because 
we don't need to raise the spending, Madam Speaker, on this bill 140 
percent and cover 4 million additional children.

I think it was Mr. Walz from Minnesota who had this nice poster 
showing the amount of money that we spend every day, every month in 
Iraq trying to defeat this Islamic extremism, to fight this global war 
on terror, and saying that, well, you know, if we had 37 days' worth of 
spending in Iraq and Afghanistan that we could use on this SCHIP 
program, we could cover 10 million additional children, give them 
health care, dental care, Cadillac coverage. Well, he is right about 
that. There is no doubt we could. And what good would that health care 
coverage for those children do if some Osama bin Laden look-alike came 
into this country and blew them to smithereens?

So let's get our priorities straight here, my colleagues. Let's get 
our priorities straight. We need to protect the children. We need to 
protect the adults. We need to protect hardworking men and women in 
this country and not let 3,700 of them be slaughtered in a 20-minute 
period of time, in the blink of an eye, because we were not willing to 
defend this country against global terrorism and Islamofascism.

So this is not a matter of either/or here. And, again, numbers are 
great. You use your statistics and you make your points. But I hope, my 
colleagues and Madam Speaker, that I have made my point well in regard 
to priorities. So let's get this real. Let's sit down with the 
Democratic leadership. The President I know will do that after we 
sustain his veto.

Hopefully, there will be some Republicans, Madam Speaker, at the 
table. Our colleagues keep talking about the bipartisan bill and they 
keep saying Senator Grassley and Senator Hatch. Well, okay, Senators 
Grassley and Hatch. But we have got, I think, 47 other Republican 
Senators in the other body. And, yes, they may have a few Republicans 
on this side who they have scared into supporting this massive 
expansion.

But we don't need to do that. The President can sit down with, 
hopefully, our leadership, both Democratic and Republican. Minority 
rights here. Let Mr. Boehner in the room. Let Mr. Barton in. Let Mr. 
Deal in. Let our ranking members from the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. 
McCrery, let them in the room too and sit down with the President, with 
Democratic leadership, with the Senate, with the Republican Senators. 
I'm sure they will be there.

And say, look, we made a proposal. Initially, the President said we 
are going to expand this program 20 percent. You say it's not enough. 
All right. Well, let's get to the table. Let's leave our guns at the 
door, if you will, Madam Speaker. And maybe it does need to be a 35 
percent increase, possibly even 40 percent. That would increase this 
program over a 5-year period of time by $10 billion. But not $35 
billion when what you cover in those additional 4 million children are 
those whose families are making a pretty darn good income at $63,000 a 
year and they are already on a health insurance program, a private 
health insurance program. But, Madam Speaker, wouldn't you, if you got 
the opportunity to drop your private coverage for your kids and those 
monthly premiums, say, Manna from heaven, we're now going to get on the 
government public trough? Wonderful. Wonderful.



And I go back to that, talking a little bit in response to, again, my 
physician colleague, I think most of my colleagues know that that was 
my profession, too, before coming to this body. But the doctor from 
Wisconsin was showing those pictures, that picture, again, of Wendy and 
Cassidy. Well, Wendy, if she needs public coverage for her health care, 
should get it under the Medicaid program. But guess what? The State has 
to pay more under the Medicaid program, significantly more, probably, I 
would guess that that's absolutely true in Wisconsin, than on this 
SCHIP program. So it's a better deal, obviously, to cover her under 
SCHIP than under Medicaid if she had a waiver, if Wisconsin had a 
waiver, could cover her income level. You see my colleagues, you get 
it? This is simply a matter of fact, the truth. Maybe sometimes the 
truth hurts, but connect the dots here, connect the dots.

Mr. Speaker, I don't think the Democratic leadership wanted to give 
the President a bill that he could sign because there's a lot of 
politics in all of this. And there is always, well, you know, ''these 
cruel Republicans.'' These cold-hearted, they don't care about the 
children. They don't care about the veterans. They don't care about the 
hardworking men and women of this country, so let's stick it to the 
rich.'' And of course the rich is anybody making more than $75,000 a 
year.

So, Mr. Speaker, it wasn't my intention to talk about this, but I 
think you can see, my colleagues, that the previous hour kind of 
stirred me up a little bit, and I wanted to get the facts out there. 
Because this is a historic vote tomorrow, and I plan to vote to sustain 
the President's veto.

Mr. Speaker, my main purpose tonight in this hour, and I think some 
of my colleagues will be joining me a little bit later in the hour, is 
to talk about something that I can talk about in a very, very 
bipartisan way, and that is, the need for earmark reform. This problem 
with earmarks, a lot of people say that's the reason, that's part of 
the reason. Maybe there are two or three things that you can point to, 
I won't spell them out. I think most people understand that we lost our 
majority. ''We,'' I'm talking about now the Republican Caucus. We had 
the majority in this House for 12 years, and in November of 2006, 
obviously, we lost it. And a lot of people would say, the political 
pundits and folks back in my district, the Republican base, you guys, 
why in the world did you not rein in spending? You know, you had an 
opportunity, you had a Republican President, you had control of both 
the House and the Senate. Of course, control of the Senate, I think the 
Democrats are finding out right now that control of the Senate by two 
votes doesn't get you very far, and of course that was certainly a 
problem for us in the majority. But it is without question, in my mind, 
that this prolific spending really caused us some serious problems at 
the ballot box. And some of it has to do with these so-called ''Member 
initiatives,'' earmarks, a lot of people just flat out call it 
''pork.''



So, I think it's a problem. Clearly, it's a problem. The American 
public perceives it to be a problem; therefore, it is a problem. And if 
you ask people in red States or blue States, they'll tell you the same 
thing: It's not right.

Now, there are Members who will stand up here and very staunchly 
defend Member initiatives. They will make the argument that, well, each 
Member, 435 of us, 100 in the other body, knows our people, knows our 
State, knows our district, understands what the needs are. People come 
to us, whether it's a school or county or city government or an 
individual entrepreneur that's got a new product that can save the 
lives of our soldiers injured on the battlefield, and that's a good 
thing, that's an appropriate thing for us to point out. Maybe the 
departments that we fund in this $933 billion discretionary spending 
pot that we divide up among all these different agencies and 
departments of Federal Government, that they can't know, they can't get 
into each and every State, although they may have regional offices. So, 
it's good, it's good that Members, Mr. Speaker, are able to bring that 
to the attention of the appropriators and make a request and get what's 
called by the general public and by the watchdog groups ''earmarks'' or 
''pork.'' We like to refer to them as ''Member-directed initiatives.''

And I'm a little bit torn about it. I do believe that Member 
initiatives can be a very good thing if Members do the right thing and 
there is no quid pro quo in regard to trying to grant a favor, if you 
will, for a constituent for a worthwhile, needy project that would 
ultimately help everybody, not just a very narrow group of people.

But this system, Mr. Speaker, has really gone amuck. Now, I've only 
been here 5 years; I'm in my third term. Have I asked for Member 
initiatives for the 11th District of Georgia? Absolutely, Mr. Speaker. 
Indeed, I have done that. I have learned how to do it, not nearly as 
successfully as some of my colleagues. Some people are absolute experts 
at it, but we all kind of learn the process. It's not part of our 
orientation, by the way. If it was such a good thing, it seems like 
they would include it in the orientation manual for new Members. But 
you just kind of learn this on the slide. You know, you talk to your 
senior colleagues who have been around here for a while and you find 
out how the system works. And so, you do. And I like to feel that I can 
shine the light of day, Mr. Speaker, on every single one of those 
Member initiatives that I've asked for; certainly not gotten them all. 
In fact, the ones that I have been granted, usually it's far less than 
the request. So, we've been doing this for a long time and we've talked 
about reforming it for a long time.

When we were in the majority, Mr. Speaker, and I say ''we.'' You and 
I are Members of this body proudly, but I'm talking about ''we'' the 
Republican Members. When we were in the majority, I think we finally 
recognized that something needed to be done and we tried to put some 
sunshine on the process. And we said, look, at the very least, let's 
make sure that when Members put these projects, these earmark projects 
in a bill, not just the appropriations bill, but also an authorizing 
bill, or maybe a narrowly drawn tax bill, all those tax bills, of 
course, originate in the House through the Ways and Means Committee, 
but if it's a tax advantage that affects just a handful of people, 
that's kind of a special deal, that's a special favor, and that has to 
be justified.

So, we recommended in our ethics reform package in the 109th 
Congress, let's make sure that all of those Member initiatives are 
written in the bill and in the bill's report. And it specifically says 
who the Member was making the request, from what State, what the 
project is, how much money is going to be spent. And that particular 
earmark could be challenged by another Member. Another Member, during 
an appropriations vote and discussion, a Member could stand up and say, 
''I have an amendment to strike such and such an earmark.'' I would 
hope that Members would do that in a bipartisan way and that Democrats 
wouldn't just attack Republican earmarks and Republicans attack 
Democratic earmarks. If you're truly sincere about the process, you 
would look at it without any view of whether the earmark has an ''R'' 
or a ''D'' behind it, Mr. Speaker, and you would challenge it on its 
merits and then would have an up-or-down vote. That's good, that's a 
good thing.

Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, when the new majority took over, that 
language in earmark reform was changed such that it's not required that 
the light of day shine on earmarks and authorizing bills or tax bills, 
just in the appropriations process. But that's not enough, that's not 
enough.

In the next few minutes I want to talk about something that I have 
introduced, a bill that I think would take us a lot further down the 
road toward, if you will, Mr. Speaker, cleaning up this process.

Now, I'm going to ask our good, young page who is here tonight, as 
they always are, working hard for us late at night, to bring the easel 
up. I've got about three posters, and I want to share some quotes with 
you. But while he's doing that, Mr. Speaker, I see that one of my 
colleagues, my classmate from the great State of New Jersey, I believe 
that's the Garden State if I'm correct, is with us on the floor. And 
the gentleman I'm talking about, Representative Scott Garrett, is also 
my colleague on the Republican Study Committee, and I thank him for 
joining me tonight.

At this time, I would like to yield time to Mr. Garrett.