---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7f1b1aa97adece90e683877b61e7886b`
`Mr. AKIN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, we rise today to discuss this resolution that 
is in two parts before us. The first part says that we support our 
troops. The second part says that we are not going to send them 
reinforcements. This seems to be kind of a curious proposition, almost 
a nonsensical proposition. How do you say you support and then say, but 
we don't want to send them any reinforcing troops? Certainly we say 
that we want to give them body armor, we want to give them up-armored 
Humvees, we want to send them tanks; but the most important thing that 
you need sometimes as troops is some other troops to support you. So we 
are saying, oh, we want support, but we don't want to support you.

Picture Davy Crockett at the Alamo. He has his back to the wall. 
Santa Ana has got thousands of troops. So he gets his BlackBerry out. 
He checks with Congress. Congress says, Hey, Davy, we really support 
you but we're not going to send you any troops. That doesn't make a 
whole lot of sense to me.

Now, as I said, this resolution has two parts. It says, We support 
you but we're not really going to send any troops over.

The third part is what concerns me the most. As Congressmen, we have 
the responsibility to listen, to pay attention. If somebody has a 
better idea, that is just fine. Send your better idea forward. We are 
ready to be taught or to learn. If there is a better way to approach 
Iraq and the situation there, good. But this proposal has no positive 
suggestion whatsoever. It just says we support and we don't support. 
All that does is to encourage our enemies. And without any positive 
recommendation, this can only be viewed as something which strengthens 
our opponents' hands. They say, Goody, we've got the Americans all 
confused. They're saying support and don't support at the same time, 
with no positive recommendations whatsoever.

Now, I have heard people say that this is a civil war. It is not 
really a civil war yet. If we pull all the troops out immediately, it 
will turn into a civil war, no doubt about that. But what we do have 
is, we do know this, that the terrorists have been involved in setting 
one group of people against another. They blow up a holy place of the 
Shias and the Shias start fighting the Sunnis. And so, yes, they have 
sparked a whole lot of unrest, particularly in Baghdad. It is not a 
civil war yet. But do we think that the terrorists aren't going to do 
the same thing in other countries where you have the one leadership 
with a majority of people in the other tribe.

So I don't think it is much of an escape to say, oh, well, this is a 
civil war. What it is, it is a war against terrorists. Regardless of 
how you want to speculate what might happen if we leave all of a 
sudden, at least I would respect the Democrats more if you


would just simply say, we need to cut and run, or we need to stay where 
we are. But don't just leave a blank piece of paper and say we support 
and don't support. It doesn't make any sense. All it does is help the 
enemy.

It seems to me that we need to as Americans one more time as we have 
in the past take a good, serious gut check. I have a chance to speak to 
American audiences everywhere and lots of little kids and I always ask 
the same question. I ask the question, If you were to take America that 
you love and condense it down as to what do you really believe about 
this country, what is the heart and core of America? The answer that I 
almost always get is the word ''freedom.''

But freedom needs a little bit more definition. The Tiananmen Square 
Chinese students wanted freedom and they greased the tank treads with 
their bodies. But they didn't get freedom. Just because you want 
freedom doesn't mean you can have it.

So what is the heart of what we believe as Americans? Well, I will 
tell you. The first time we went to war we stated that and we had quite 
an argument and discussion about it. And it was put in the Declaration 
of Independence: We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men 
are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that 
among these is life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. And the job 
of government is to protect those basic, fundamental, God-given rights. 
That is what they believed and they had to decide: Are we going to 
fight the British or not? Those are the things that I taught to my 
children.

This is a picture of the Marine Club with my 9-year-old son standing 
here, saluting the flag as it is going up. We taught him that there are 
some things in this world that are worth dying for and that one of 
those things is the fact that God gives us basic inalienable rights. 
That little Marine Club kid has grown up.

There he is in Fallujah in 2005. That is the cache of terrorist 
weapons that they found in Fallujah. He has grown up. He understands 
the risk to his life. He almost died in Fallujah. He believes, as I do, 
that there are some things in this world that are worth defending. This 
is not a war about a civil war. This is head to head with terrorists.

And is it surprising that we find ourselves fighting terrorists? 
Terrorists believe, we blow up innocent people to make a political 
statement. We believe that the right to life comes from God, that it is 
an inalienable right. The terrorists terrorize people to compel you to 
take your liberty away and we believe that liberty is a gift that comes 
from God. We are going head to head with people that have always been 
the enemies of America, and I am concerned that if we do not stand up 
and show that we not only think that it is a nice idea in our 
Declaration but it is a conviction that we will defend with our lives, 
that we will be fighting the terrorists here.