# PRICE OF GASOLINE
## `7f3285b112f434703f25f3b933df5d1d`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. All of us have our own natural disasters we deal 
with on an annual basis. This point was driven home with me in February 
when a huge ice storm hit my State. We had 350,000 people without 
power. The 133rd of the Iowa National Guard has been stationed in Iraq 
for over a year and had their deployment extended by another 120 days. 
They were struggling with people available to respond to this very 
significant demand for assistance. So that is when you understand in a 
very real way how foreign policy affects domestic policy in your 
district.

But as my friend from Vermont knows, when he was talking about the 
need to preserve the heritage of agriculture in this country and its 
importance to our economy, my great-great-grandfather, George 
Washington Braley, walked from Vermont in Mr. Welch's district to Iowa 
in 1855 looking for better farmland, Mr. Perlmutter, better rain.

My parents both grew up on farms in Iowa during the Depression, and 
the whole sense of stewardship and preserving the land for the next 
generation is something that is almost a spiritual quality about 
farming. I know there are very many people looking for ways to 
diversify their agricultural economy.

Mr. Klein, you raised a very good point about the multiplier effect 
of renewable energy. Right now Iowa ranks third in the production of 
wind power, which surprises people. They go to Palm Springs and see 
those huge wind farms, and they know there is also a lot generated in 
Texas, but Iowa ranks third. Part of the reason for that is windmills 
have been a way of life in my State for over 150 years.

But there is a very acute shortage of wind turbines in this country. 
People who want to convert to wind energy and want to have the ability 
to produce electricity from wind are facing significant shortages of 
turbines, specifically those manufactured in the United States. A lot 
of people, municipalities that are looking to convert to wind have to 
go to the European market because they are on long waiting lists from 
U.S. wind turbine manufacturers.

Recently there has been an incentive to factories that are creating 
new wind turbines. There is a new factory in Iowa that opened up 
recently. So when we are talking about how this has a ripple effect 
throughout our economy, it creates jobs and incentive for people to try 
new and innovative energy technologies, and we all benefit from that. 
That needs to be part of the overall discussion we are having about how 
we create incentives to move people to clean energy sources.