# None
## `7f3b98b6992f626715dbaf9be4d8b0b8`
`Mr. FORBES — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. FORBES. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to both this rule and 
the underlying conference report. The American people need to 
understand the sea change that's taking place with this rule and this 
conference report. It's the first time we have allowed social policy 
and the budget to drive our defense posture instead of our defense 
posture driving the budget. We have men today that are fighting and 
dying in Afghanistan, and they have no plan.

Now, the law doesn't require that the administration have a plan. 
Common sense does. Fairness does. But what the law did require was on 
this report they have a shipbuilding plan so America knows what we're 
doing with their ships, how they're building, and that they certify 
that this budget, this authorization bill will meet. And this 
administration just refused to do it.

The law also requires that they have an aviation plan that just makes 
sense. But the law requires them to give us a plan to say what they're 
going to do with our planes and the certification that this conference 
report does it. They just refuse to do it.

When they sent the report over, they issued a gag order to members in 
the Pentagon where they couldn't even talk to Congress to tell them 
where they were putting dollars and which programs they were cutting, 
and that was just wrong. And then they have labeled their social agenda 
and overlaid it into a Defense authorization bill.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve better, and I hope we will 
defeat this rule and defeat the underlying conference report.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
