---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7f405bed7cc0a35b05381e6aaf22875f`
`Mr. BROWN of South Carolina — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN of South Carolina. I thank the gentleman from New York for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, as President Bush and his top military advisers 
implement the new plan for victory in Iraq, we must be united in a 
common goal for victory, and we should never forget that our enemy is 
listening to this debate, just as our troops are listening to every 
word of every Member of this Congress.

As many of my colleagues have done, I have personally visited Iraq. I 
have seen the progress and I have seen the good job that our brave men 
and women are doing for us and for the people of Iraq.

We have achieved some major accomplishments in Iraq. Women are now 
able to vote in real elections for the first time in their lives. Iraqi 
citizens are now able to protest and let their opinions be heard in 
public, and Iraq is a self-governing nation, free of tyranny.

I was proud to sit down and share a meal with many soldiers from 
South Carolina's First District. And the question many of our soldiers 
kept asking me was, why are none of the good stories making it back to 
the folks at home?

Mr. Speaker, I think that many of us today are trying to share some 
of the good stories and recognize some of the positive things that our 
brave men and women in Iraq are doing for us.

South Carolina's First District has a high proportion of active and 
retired military personnel and are directly impacted by the war in the 
Middle East. At the Charleston Air Force Base, the C-17 aircraft that 
come and go are a direct link in the supply chain that assist our brave 
soldiers fighting for us in Iraq.

At Force Protection in Ladson, South Carolina, they continue to build 
the Buffalo and the Cougar vehicles that save the lives of our soldiers 
against the mines and IED attacks every day.

Last year on Memorial Day, in my capacity as chairman of the Veterans 
Affairs Subcommittee on Health, I was fortunate enough to be the guest 
speaker at an American cemetery in Normandy, France, which overlooks 
Omaha Beach.

Our brave soldiers during World War II were in France not to fight 
the French, but to fight the occupying Nazis. Today our soldiers are 
not in Iraq and Afghanistan to fight the citizens of those countries, 
but are there to fight the insurgents in Iraq and the Taliban in 
Afghanistan.

In listening to the debate over the past few days, it reminded me of 
my visit and reading some of the names of the brave soldiers that 
fought our Nation's war during World War II.

Mr. Speaker, there are over 9,300 buried in Normandy. Those brave 
souls fought in a war against the forces of evil then, just as our 
soldiers in Iraq are fighting against the forces of evil today.

What would have happened if Franklin Delano Roosevelt pulled our 
troops out of France after the casualties we took storming the beaches 
of Normandy? If Franklin Delano Roosevelt was alive today, what would 
he think of this debate which empowers and energizes our enemies and 
demoralizes our brave fighting men and women? What would America have 
done if the Congress enacted a nonbinding resolution to pull our troops 
out of France after D-Day? What kind of world would we be living in 
today?

Iraq is directly tied to the future security of our Nation, and 
consequently, failure in Iraq is not an option.

I do not believe we have already lost in Iraq, but we will lose if we 
don't give the troops what they need to win. I remain hopeful that the 
Democrats and Republicans can unite around a new policy, clearly 
defining our troops' mission for the sake of our national security.

Mr. Speaker, I support President Bush and his vision for the new 
strategy for victory in Iraq. I cannot in good faith support this 
resolution because it sends our soldiers the message that the United 
States Congress believes that they cannot succeed in their mission. It 
is much easier to complain, while offering no real ideas or 
alternatives. This resolution is all bark and no bite.

I will conclude with a quote from a good friend and someone I am 
proud to have as my constituent, Medal of Honor recipient and retired 
Major General James Livingston. ''Today we have a choice of fighting 
the enemy in Iraq. If we do not take them on in Iraq, then we will be 
forced to fight the enemy here on our homeland.''

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this resolution.

