---
---

# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `7f42a02e05aab5e7594019e88332a131`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the bravery and sacrifice of 
the seven CIA officers and contractors who gave their lives in the line 
of duty during the December 30 bombing of a CIA base in Khost, 
Afghanistan. My thoughts and prayers are with them and with their 
families. I also want to recognize those Americans who were injured in 
the blast and offer my best wishes for a full and quick recovery.

Madam Speaker, as we have all learned by now, a suicide bomber who 
was believed to possess valuable information critical to 
counterterrorism operations entered the U.S. forward operating base in 
Khost, where he activated explosives that took the lives of seven 
Americans, including one of our Nation's top counterterrorism experts 
as well as a Jordanian intelligence officer. Six other Americans 
standing nearby were also injured in the explosion.

The men and women of our intelligence community do critically 
important work behind a veil of secrecy, yet as this tragic incident 
reminds us, they're still exposed to the dangers that come from the 
difficult and often thankless job of protecting our Nation. Unlike our 
soldiers in uniform, these public servants must keep their many 
victories secret while their rare failures and raw grief make 
headlines.

My thoughts and prayers again are with the families of these brave 
men and women. They and all the other patriots who serve so honorably 
in our intelligence community have my unending gratitude and my 
unwavering support. And I, I know along with all of my colleagues, will 
continue to do everything in our power to ensure that they have the 
tools and the resources and the encouragement they need to continue to 
keep America safe.

May God bless those who lost their lives and those who are injured.