---
---

# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `7f47f045f29b1c9e8a403efd82299907`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. You have to invite me to come out to 
your home sometime. I invite you to my home in Pall Mall, but I have 
got to visit more with your family. As I learn more and more, I realize 
the quality of people that we have here serving. It was such a 
wonderful yield, the comments you made during that period of time. It 
is certainly good to be on the floor with you.

But as I talk about that democracy that we fought for, that we fought 
for, I realize that there has never been a time that a democracy in any 
country has ever been imposed from without. It has always been from 
within, the French Revolution, the startings of the Magna Carta where 
we said we are no longer going to give taxes if you are basically going 
to squander it on your parties, Mr. King.

When Israel established a nation in the Middle East, what type was 
it? It was a democracy.

My fear is that we can keep our soldiers, our young men and women in 
the battlefields in Iraq for a long, long time, and we can never force 
a democracy on the people of Iraq or anywhere else. We went into Iraq, 
and Iraq especially, without realizing the national customs, the 
traditions, the faith, their family values that are totally different 
in many cases than ours.

I think everyone loves liberty and freedom. I just believe as we 
engage that we ought to realize that we cannot impose our will on 
anyone unless we do it with a much larger force than what we have 
today.

Let me stay on Iraq for a moment.