---
---

# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `7f83fd2da2b4158d80bb461fa08298e6`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 21 June 2007`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, today, the Senate is trying to come up 
with an energy bill. I know Senators have been working very hard on all 
sides of the aisle to come up with consensus legislation we can 
support, and I really do support them. I wish to particularly call to 
the attention of the Senate the efforts of Senators Pryor and Levin and 
Stabenow to try to come up with a compromise on the CAFE. But we are 
now where we are. We are at a very important juncture in our history.

You know me. I am a blue-collar Senator. My heart and soul lies with 
the blue-collar American. I spent most of my life in a blue-collar 
neighborhood. When Bethlehem Steel went on strike, my dad gave those 
workers credit. When UAW was having a hard time, my father and mother 
tried to smooth the way by helping them in the grocery store. My career 
and my public service is one of deep commitment to the working people. 
So when automobile manufacturers told me they could not meet the 
increased CAFE standards, I listened. I listened year after year, and 
now I have listened for more than 20 years. When they told me they 
needed more time, I agreed. When they told me an increase in CAFE 
standards was unattainable with existing technology, I voted against 
the increase to give more time so we could come up with attainable and 
existing technology.

But 20 years have gone by since the last increase in fuel efficiency 
standards. I was here when we voted for those CAFE standards. Now, 
after 20 years, I firmly do believe it is time for a change--not any 
kind of change--a smart change, a feasible change, an affordable 
change. That is why I support the Energy bill that is before us. I 
support the framework that has been generally presented by Senator 
Feinstein of California. I know that American automobile manufacturers 
and their workers are true patriots. They want what is best for our 
Nation. They have faced challenges before and they have met them and I 
believe they will face these challenges now. I believe they want to 
build vehicles that are safer and more energy efficient.


The time has now come to increase fuel efficiency standards. We need 
a national effort. We need a national standard. It is time for our 
automobile industry to make the changes because they need to be able to 
do that to help their own industry survive and also for the interest of 
the Nation.

I believe our world and our Nation is facing a crisis. When you look 
at the increased gas prices at the pump, it is hurting every single one 
of us. When you talk to families, you learn it now costs $90 to fill up 
a minivan. A commuter who has no other way to get to work than an 
automobile is now paying more to get to work than they are for their 
food bill in certain areas. As the Presiding Officer knows, small 
businesses need those vans to make those deliveries, whether they own a 
flower shop, whether they are a heating and air-conditioning guy, 
whether they are a plumber or whether they are the person delivering 
pharmaceuticals to nursing homes. In my own State right now, the 
watermen, those fishermen are out on the Chesapeake Bay trying to 
harvest ever-diminishing crabs with ever-increasing fuel prices.

It is time to conserve our energy resources and to deal with the 
crisis we are facing. We know that energy and gasoline and petroleum 
products are in limited supply and are going up. We know that America's 
dependence on foreign oil presents a very serious national security 
challenge.

I am on the Intelligence Committee, and I know what these 
transnational threats are. I know that energy independence is 
absolutely crucial to fighting the global war against terrorism. If we 
follow the money, we know that every time we are putting money into the 
tank, we are putting money into the pockets of the petro jihadists, 
those petro jihadists who are trying to undermine us everywhere around 
the world. They are undermining and attacking our troops in Iraq. They 
are funding Hezbollah so they can attack Israel; Hugo Chavez, shake, 
rattling, and rolling in Latin America. Do we want our money going to 
the petro jihadists who want to plot and destroy not only American 
lives but the American way of life? I don't want to support al-Qaida by 
buying more gasoline than I have to, but this is what Iran, Venezuela, 
and others are doing.

We need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and that is one of 
the most important ways we can as the public is by fighting the war 
against terrorism. There are 150,000 men and women fighting in Iraq 
today. The temperature is 110 degrees. We already have lost 14 more 
military. While we are doing that, though, there are 300 million of us 
who don't have to share in the sacrifice of the battle in Iraq, but we 
can share in that sacrifice if we embrace energy conservation and are 
serious about it. At the same time, we know there is a dangerous 
increase in the climate crisis that affects the life of our planet. It, 
too, is a national security issue because, make no mistake, the climate 
crisis will affect our food supply and will create a climate in which 
infectious disease will grow and natural disasters will increase.

What can we do about it? How can we sign up to have a safer America, 
a safer planet? Well, I believe the most sensible foundation of an 
energy plan must begin with conservation. We have to make better use of 
what we have in our homes, in our businesses, in our cars, and in our 
airplanes. We also need incentives for new renewable energy and energy-
efficient technologies that we can use in our homes and in our 
businesses and an increase in fuel efficiency standards for our 
vehicles on the road and our vehicles in the air.

Now, in considering any fuel efficiency standard, otherwise known as 
CAFE, I come back to where I began: My heart and soul lies with the 
American worker, so I believe anything we do must preserve American 
jobs, but it also must achieve real savings in oil consumption. It also 
has to be realizable and achievable. That means a real technological 
ability to accomplish it. That means a reasonable lead time to adjust 
our production.

I also believe we have to create incentives to enable companies to 
achieve those goals. I don't believe in an industrial policy where we 
pick winners and losers, but if we are going to pick a winning energy 
policy, we have to provide some type of help to the industry to help 
them get where we need for them to go.

In the 1950s, when part of the world saw the Iron Curtain come down 
and they went into communism, many against their own will, such as 
Poland, Latvia, and Estonia, there was a whole other world that chose 
to go with what they called a Socialist tendency. We saw industrial 
democracies such as England, France, and Canada develop a national 
health system. We said: Oh, no, we are Americans. We don't want to go 
that way. We don't want to have a national health system. So we said to 
the private sector: Provide health care, provide pensions, and we will 
support that. So our American manufacturing base went to a defined 
benefit. They did provide health care. They did provide pensions. Now, 
they should not be penalized for it. Yet you look at the fact that our 
American manufacturers and our automobile industry itself does carry 
the legacy cost of health care; we asked them to do it and they did do 
it. General Motors provides more health care than the VA system. They 
provide more health care than some countries around the world. They 
have legacy costs to retirees. So if we are going to make the move in 
CAFE, we have to acknowledge that issue and how that impacts their 
competitiveness.

Let's put our thinking caps on. Let's not only help one industry. 
Maybe this is the time to motivate us to get serious about having 
universal health care and a real prescription drug benefit so we don't 
dump it on the private sector to do.

I also know, when we look at this in terms of preserving jobs, we 
need to also make sure that the technology is achievable, and I believe 
it is. I believe also there are certain waivers in this bill that help 
them achieve--that deal with the fact that if they cannot increase some 
of these standards, the mandates can be waived. But you don't get an 
energy policy by mandates alone. We can't mandate and regulate our way 
out of this.

I am going to vote to raise fuel efficiency standards, only because I 
am so convinced it is in our national security


interests. But I do not want to ignore the economic impact that this is 
going to have on the automobile industry. We can't just mandate and we 
can't just regulate. So I say to my colleagues, if we are going to go 
energy, then let's go to health care. If we are going to go energy, 
then let's fix the prescription drug benefit and don't talk about 
vetoes and filibusters. Let's now work in our national interests. Let's 
now work for our manufacturing base.


Out-of-control health care costs mean that companies are less able to 
be innovative and invest in technology. Our current President likes to 
talk a lot about relieving the tax burden, but to our business 
community, the cost of health care is a tax because we have not gotten 
serious about how to provide affordable health care, both to the people 
who want to buy it and businesses who want to provide it. So let's get 
rid of that health care tax on American business and come up with 
universal health care. Last year we made some progress in helping 
manufacturers meet their pension obligations, and we can do it in 
health care.

The time has come to raise the CAFE standards, but the time has come 
also to put our thinking caps on, to be an innovation society, and to 
come up with new ideas for efficiency, new technologies for energy 
efficiency, new composite materials to make cars lighter but keep them 
safe, and at the same time to seriously come to grips with health care.

This is not an easy vote for me. I am telling you, this is not an 
easy vote for me. I have always, for 20 years, stood with colleagues 
such as Senators Levin and Stabenow. I stand with them now. But I also 
know that if the American automobile industry is going to survive and 
that if we are going to deal with the petro jihadists, we need to get 
serious about fuel efficiency. Let's get serious about the legislation. 
Let's get serious about health care. Let's be serious about the 
American workers, and let's get the job done the people want us to do.

So today, I know we voted for cloture on the bill, but we have to 
continue to speak up on what we need to do to make us a safer country, 
but to keep a stronger economy, and for God's sake, could we start to 
be smarter about it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a quorum.