---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `7f8be80bd5545687f28dfa05b696a944`
`Mr. SPRATT — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. SPRATT. Madam Chairman, I yield myself 14 minutes.

Madam Chairman, today we take up the budget resolution. Passing it, 
like many things in this House, is never easy, and sometimes 
contentious. But it is crucially important if we care about fiscal 
soundness and the future of our country.

Our country faces right now a host of different challenges: the 
specter of recession, a crunch in the credit markets, rising 
unemployment, declining family income, constant inflation in the cost 
of health care, aging infrastructure, and a porous safety net. And that 
is not to mention the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, costing us close to 
$200 billion this year, and even more dearly in human lives and 
wounded.

The President's budget for 2009 does little to turn this tide. In 
fact, the policies of the last 7 years have created some of these 
problems and compounded others. Eight short years ago, in 2000, our 
budget was in surplus, big-time surplus. In that year, we had a surplus 
of $236 billion. Having worked for years to bring the budget to this 
status, we warned the President and our colleagues across the aisle not 
to bet it all on a blue-sky forecast; but it was to no avail.

The President's economists looked out 10 years and saw nothing but 
surpluses, $5.6 trillion in all. We worried that if these rosy 
projections didn't pan out, we would be right back where we had been, 
deep in deficit.



Well, the President told the country, in effect, that we could have 
it all, guns, butter and tax cuts, too, and never mind the deficits.

I'll have to admit it looked as though we were sitting on an island 
of surpluses, but, in truth, we were surrounded by a sea of debt, of 
long-term unfunded liabilities for Social Security and Medicare, coming 
due just over the horizon.

Seven years later, under this administration's policies, those 
surpluses are history. They're gone, vanished, replaced with record 
deficits and mounting debt.

This one chart here which shows in tabular form the increase in the 
debt over the last 8 years, says it as simply as we can on one piece of 
paper. When the President came to office, the debt of this country was 
$5.7 trillion. When he leaves in a few months, it will probably be 
close to $10 trillion, more than $4 trillion in debt accumulation on 
the watch of the Bush administration.

The budget we take up today is no grand solution, I'll grant you 
that, but it moves us in the right direction. It restores fiscal 
responsibility, but not to the exclusion of other values that


we hold dear such as our children's education and their good health 
care. And that's why, right off the bat, we part company with the 
President's budget and with Mr. Ryan's substitute.

We think Medicare is one of our country's crowning achievements, so 
we reject his cuts that would emasculate Medicare, in the President's 
budget, $556 billion over 10 years, and we reject his cuts in Medicaid, 
$118 billion over 10 years.

The Ryan substitute over 5 years would cut Medicare by $253 billion 
by our calculation, and Medicaid by $116 billion. We can't vote for 
that.

We would not wipe out the Social Services Block Grant or cripple the 
Community Services Block Grants as the President proposes, because we 
have seen in our own communities the roles they play. They hold up the 
safety net in an economy where it's sorely needed. And with fuel prices 
at record highs, the last thing we would slash is LIHEAP and low-income 
home weatherization. These are minimum benefits for Americans with 
maximum needs.

Ten years ago when we first ran a surplus, we resolved in both Houses 
to use some of that surplus each year to double the resources of the 
National Institutes of Health, the NIH, over a period of 5 years. We 
reached that goal in a bipartisan way, only to backslide year by year 
in this administration. In our budget this year we stop the backsliding 
at NIH, and we restore the President's cuts at the equally important 
Centers For Disease Control.

Our budget targets other resources to strengthen our economy and our 
society. We invest more in innovation, more in energy, more in 
infrastructure, and we provide $7.1 billion more than the President for 
education.

To move our country one step closer to health care for all, we 
facilitate up to $50 billion to expand SCHIP, the children's health 
insurance program, consistent with PAYGO, requiring that the costs be 
fully offset. We also accommodate fiscally responsible relief from the 
alternative minimum tax in order to shelter those middle-income 
taxpayers for whom it was never intended.

To make America safe, we fully fund defense, and we keep our promises 
to those who have fought for our defense, providing $3.6 billion above 
current services for veterans health care.

Now Mr. Ryan puts another billion on top of that in his budget, but 
he also puts in function 920, this is budget esoterica, but he puts in 
function 920 a call for $400 billion in undistributed cuts. One of 
those cuts would likely be that apparent increase in veterans health 
care.

Although we fix the AMT for another year, providing a tax cut of $70 
billion to middle-income Americans, our Republican colleagues will 
accuse us of raising taxes. You've already heard it. The fact is, our 
budget doesn't raise taxes by one penny. But don't take my word for it. 
Stop by the manager's table right here on the House floor and read the 
letters that we've received from groups like the Concord Coalition, or 
look at the posters that we just posted here.

Here's what the Concord Coalition says: ''Allowing some or all of the 
tax cuts to expire would not be the result of Congress raising taxes; 
it would be the result of sunsets that were included when these tax 
cuts were originally enacted to avoid the level of fiscal scrutiny that 
PAYGO is designed to ensure.'' That's what the Concord Coalition has to 
say about our resolution.

If you want to see more, turn to section 501 in our budget 
resolution, title 5, section 501, and we enumerate, from item A through 
H, child tax credit, marital penalty relief, the 10 percent bracket, 
estate taxes, extension of research experimentation tax credit, 
extension of the State and local sales tax deduction, extension of the 
deduction for small business expenses and it goes on. These are the tax 
cuts that we embrace and commit ourselves to seeing renewed when they 
do eventually expire.

We believe that tax relief can come in a deficit-neutral tax bill in 
some cases, and we offer the AMT as an example. On more than one 
occasion, high-ranking officials in the Bush administration have 
testified before our committee, and when they're asked about the AMT 
and its impact on middle-income taxpayers, they've insisted that they 
could fix the AMT with changes in the Tax Code so that there would be 
no net loss of revenues.

For example, in February 2006 Josh Bolten was the director of OMB. He 
told our committee that the AMT could be corrected in the context of 
overall deficit-neutral tax reform, his words.

In February 2007, his successor, Rob Portman, told the Budget 
Committee, ''Our budget assumes it will have a revenue-neutral 
correction to the AMT.''

The chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel, has taken 
the same stance, but Mr. Rangel has delivered. He's put a revenue-
neutral bill on the table to kindle the debate. The Bush administration 
asserts it too has a plan, but has failed to follow through by 
disclosing any plan of its own.


One of the first steps that we took in the 110th Congress was to 
restore the pay-as-you-go rules that had helped us in the 1990s turn 
record deficits into record surpluses. This resolution fully complies 
with the PAYGO rule.

Partly because we've held mandatory spending in check with PAYGO and, 
at the same time, kept domestic discretionary spending close to the 
rate of inflation, this budget returns to surplus in 2012. Our bottom 
line beats the President's budget going away. Between 2009 and 2013, 
our net deficits are $262 billion. Over the same period the President's 
net deficits are $674 billion. And using CBO's latest forecast, our 
budget should be in surplus by 2012 in the amount of $178 billion. And 
from 2012 through 2018 our cumulative surplus should reach $1.4 
trillion, all told.

Now we could have used the lion's share of those surpluses to offset 
the revenues lost to renewal of expiring tax cuts, and surpluses of 
$1.4 trillion would indeed offset a huge amount of revenues forgone. We 
chose instead to leave those decisions to a time closer to December 31, 
2010, when the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts expire. But when the time is 
right, if those surpluses materialize, they can be used to offset the 
renewal of numerous expiring tax cuts, disproving our opponents' claim 
that we don't intend to renew and extend any of the expiring cuts.

In our resolution we also provide $940 million for program integrity, 
much of it going to the Internal Revenue Service for audits and 
compliance. The Commissioner told us not so many months ago that 
there's a huge tax gap, maybe $500 billion, between taxes owed and 
taxes paid, the so-called tax gap. If we can close that gap just a bit, 
we can raise tax revenues without raising tax rates. These funds can 
likewise be used as offsets.

So there are many ways to look at tax cuts in the code. And what we 
are saying here is that we should use the next several years, before 
the tax cuts expire, to do all of the above so that we will have the 
revenues to renew many of these tax cuts and restructure the AMT in 
keeping with PAYGO principles. That's simply what we are proposing.

Our budget parallels the President's budget with respect to national 
defense. It funds the basic defense budget at the levels the President 
requested for 5 years, but does not include supplemental funds beyond 
the $700 billion sought by the President. The President's budget for 
2009 does include a $70 billion item which the Pentagon calls a 
placeholder. To compare our budget to the President's budget, apples to 
apples, our resolution includes a $70 billion placeholder equal to the 
President's request for overseas deployments and activities in theaters 
that include Afghanistan and Iraq. This budget resolution is not an 
authorization bill. It's not an appropriations bill, and therefore, it 
cannot prescribe how much should be spent for these activities or 
specify where the funds should be spent. Those decisions are left to 
the authorization and appropriation process, in committee and on this 
floor. These funds, however, can be used for whatever purpose the 
Congress eventually chooses in authorizing and appropriating 
legislation.

When we set out to do this budget, our overriding objective, Madam 
Chairman, was a balanced budget, because we're appalled at the amount 
of debt being left our children, and at our stature in the world as the 
greatest debtor nation. But we want more than arithmetic balance; we 
want our priorities balanced; we want a budget that does more for our 
children's education and their health care as well, a budget that


makes our workers more competitive and our scientists more innovative.

We want to revive America, restore our fiscal soundness, reclaim our 
future. This budget is just one step, but it's one step in the right 
direction.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.