---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `7f8b903907b285adcbbbd1d6e234bdb8`
`Mr. GINGREY — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, for months Democratic leaders have tried to 
dictate military strategy by press release with little regard for the 
service men and women putting their lives on the line every day.

Perhaps my colleagues on the other side of the aisle did not realize 
that the privileges of the majority come with an actual responsibility 
to govern. Let me say to them, the time for tantrums is over. At long 
last, we are presented with an opportunity to vote yes or no on 
abandoning our mission in Iraq. But let's not mistake this newfound 
direction for some kind of profile in courage.

After months of factual disarray, the Democratic Party has not 
suddenly found its spine; it has simply realized that the liberal 
agents who drive this majority, MoveOn.org, the labor unions, they have 
run out of patience. And it is them that demand a vote on abandoning 
our mission and abandoning it ASAP. Sadly, the Democrats have little 
concern for the demands of our military or for its waning patience for 
the funding that they so desperately need.

More than 3 months, Mr. Speaker, have passed since the President 
requested emergency funding for our troops. Over the past 94 days, the 
Democrats have succeeded only in putting politics over policy and 
trying to substitute their judgment for that of the combatant 
commanders. For the past 94 days, they have chosen to beat their chest 
at press conferences, and yes, on this floor, rather than finding ways 
to actually get our troops the funding that they need to achieve 
victory.

But, astoundingly, over the past 94 days, Democrats have never once 
grasped the consequences of resigning ourselves to defeat in Iraq. The 
void created by our departure would be filled by religious extremists 
and terrorists. Iran's path to develop nuclear weapons would be 
cleared. Violence in Iraq would grow exponentially. Shiite death squads 
and al Qaeda terrorists would further destabilize the democratically 
elected government. Another rogue regime could take root, leading to 
genocide. The terrorists, freshly emboldened by our surrender, would 
then be able to export terrorism around the world.

Today, each of us has a critical decision to make: Do we stand by the 
side of victory or on the side of defeat? Do we stand with our troops 
or with those who would want to abandon them? Do we rise to the 
challenge of fostering freedom, or do we capitulate to the political 
pressure of special interests? The choice, Mr. Speaker, is ours. For 
the sake of our soldiers and our Nation. I implore my colleagues to 
choose wisely.