---
---

# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF THE 101ST AIRBORNE DIVISION
## `7f9c850d8716240cecb3094428be3aef`
`Mr. TANNER — 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. TANNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 
1080, a resolution honoring the extraordinary service and sacrifice of 
the Screaming Eagles of the 101st Airborne Division of the United 
States Army and their families. I am proud to represent in this chamber 
a portion of Fort Campbell, where the Screaming Eagles are based.

 This resolution is especially timely as soldiers from the 101st 
Airborne Division are currently deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. In 
April, Major General Jeffrey Schloesser, who commands the Screaming 
Eagles, took over as the senior U.S. commander in Afghanistan. Under 
General Schloesser, the 101st Airborne Division took over command of 
Regional Command East, an area comprised of 14 provinces in eastern 
Afghanistan. At the same time, three Brigade Combat Teams from the 
101st Airborne Division are serving in Iraq. Many of the soldiers have 
been deployed multiple times in Afghanistan and Iraq, some of those 
deployments under the command of General David Petraeus, now the 
Commander of U.S. Central Command.

 One need only look at the history of the Screaming Eagles to 
understand the legacy of the 101st Airborne Division. Originally 
activated during World War I, the Screaming Eagles would go on to serve 
in World War II, Vietnam, and Desert Storm, along with their most 
recent deployments to Afghanistan and Iraq.

 During World War II, the soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division 
would have the distinction of being the first Americans to land in 
France as part of the D-Day invasion. Nearly 60 years later, the 
Screaming Eagles became the first conventional unit to deploy in the 
Global War on Terror; participated in Operation Anaconda, a tough early 
battle in Afghanistan; and help lead the invasion into Iraq.

 Mr. Speaker, thank you for joining us today to honor the 101st 
Airborne Division, the men and women who have earned their place in 
history. They and their families will be in our thoughts and prayers as 
they continue to serve with distinction.