---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `7fa23e7beafc25928f52586d5a4e90c5`
`Mr. CLAY — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. CLAY. I thank the gentleman from American Samoa for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise to declare my absolute and unwavering 
opposition to the President's plan to escalate this tragic and 
unnecessary war.

Four years ago, I stood on the floor of this House to oppose the 
original force authorization resolution. At the time, some of my 
colleagues cautioned me that I was taking a risk by opposing the 
President and failing to support the war against terrorism. But I took 
that position because I believed then and still believe today that 
great nations do not start wars as a matter of policy, they exercise 
diplomacy and negotiation to avert threats and achieve security.



The evidence that the administration presented did not clearly 
establish any imminent threat to our national security. I was convinced 
that invading Iraq, without international support and without 
unequivocal evidence that Iraq was involved in 9/11, would dangerously 
drain our military strength, distract us from fighting the very real 
terrorist threat, and ultimately weaken our credibility around the 
world. Now we can see that the world in Iraq has emboldened our enemies 
and provoked the scorn of our allies.

Madam Speaker, standing here 4 years later, I can only wish that my 
assumptions were wrong, that invading Iraq was somehow vital to our 
national security. We were told that there were weapons of mass 
destruction, and now we know there were no WMDs. We were told that 
Iraqi oil revenue would pay for this war, and now we know that that was 
only a pipe dream that has cost American taxpayers over $400 billion. 
We were told that our troops would be greeted as liberators, and now we 
know that was only wishful thinking based on neocon fantasies and not 
the facts.

Today, American troops are embroiled in a bloody quagmire that has 
already resulted in over 26,000 American casualties. And now, just this 
past week, the Defense Department Inspector General reported that 
senior administration officials engaged in a deliberate misinformation 
campaign about al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein. Now we have learned that 
officials in our government deliberately distributed altered 
intelligence assessments. Such a misinformation campaign is 
unconscionable and a greater threat to our national security than any 
act of terrorism.

We are all familiar with the historian's observation that great 
nations are not conquered by outside forces until the nation has 
destroyed itself from within. I implore my colleagues to heed the 
lessons of history. Do not allow the politics of deception to distort 
reality.

This administration is denying the facts. It has repeatedly misled 
the Congress and the American people and undermined our Nation's 
integrity throughout the world. Now the President is asking Congress to 
register more support for a policy failure. Escalating the military 
violence in Iraq by injecting 21,000 more U.S. troops into a civil war 
reflects nothing more than this administration's obstinate refusal to 
face present realities.

A vast majority of Americans want a responsible end to this war as 
soon as possible. They want our troops redeployed, they want us to 
alleviate the suffering of innocent Iraqis, and they want us to finally 
tell the Iraqi people that they must be engaged in their country's 
destiny. The future of Iraq must ultimately be determined by them, not 
by us.

I want to conclude by quoting a good friend of mine and a fellow 
colleague, the distinguished chairman of the Armed Forces Committee, 
Ike Skelton. In a recent statement he said, ''Only the Iraqis can 
change the situation there and bring lasting security to their nation. 
I remain convinced that a gradual and responsible redeployment of U.S. 
forces is the best way to help the Iraqis take responsibility for their 
security and to restore the full strength of our military.''