# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `7fa92d3f92df565e309c627ac94765b3`
`Mr. HILL — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. HILL. I thank the gentleman from Arkansas for yielding his time. 
I also thank him for his great leadership with the Blue Dog Coalition 
and making sure that our message of fiscal discipline does get out.

I would like at this time to take a little history lesson about how 
we have gotten to the point where we are right now with a $9 trillion 
deficit. That figure is hard to believe, $9 trillion, our Nation's 
government is in debt.

Back during the 1980s, there was a Republican President who came up 
with an idea called supply-side economics. During the campaign of the 
1980s, that candidate was criticized for this economic policy. It was 
claimed to be very risky.

As a matter of fact, one of the candidates that was running on the 
Republican side called it voodoo economics. Basically, what it was in 
the 1980s was a policy that would dramatically cut taxes with the idea 
that if we cut taxes dramatically, there would be more money that would 
come to the coffers of the United States Government and deficits would 
no longer be around.

The trouble with that is that it did not work in the 1980s. I have to 
say that the Democrats who were in the majority in the House and the 
Senate that time endorsed this concept and passed this piece of 
legislation into law.

So taxes were dramatically decreased, military spending went 
dramatically up, and deficits went dramatically up during the 1980s.



During the 1990s, this policy was rejected under a Democratic 
President who was elected. He was of the opinion that we needed to get 
our fiscal house in order. And so during the 1990s, the supply side 
economics theory was rejected and PAYGO rules were put into effect in 
the 1990s.

What happened? Those PAYGO rules worked, and around 2000 and 2001 our 
government, for the first time in a very long period of time, actually 
produced surpluses. And it was projected that these surpluses would 
amount to trillions of dollars, projected out in the 21st century.

Then we had another election, and the old policies of the 1980s were 
reinstated again, those policies in the 1980s called supply side 
economics that caused huge deficits. PAYGO rules were thrown out the 
window again, not reinstated.

And here we are again, as Mr. Davis from Tennessee has already 
indicated, during that time period where PAYGOs were thrown out the 
window and supply side economics were reinstated, we've increased our 
deficit by $3 trillion, and now we're facing a $9 trillion deficit. The 
second largest expenditure in our Nation's budget is the interest that 
we pay on that deficit. This has got to stop. The gentleman from 
Arkansas earlier said, this is crazy, and it is crazy. When the Chinese 
Government is buying our debt, buying our paper, loaning us their 
money, affecting our foreign policy, we have to get our fiscal house in 
order.

And I'm so proud that I'm a member of Blue Dog Democrats. I joined 
the Blue Dog Democrats back in 1998 when I first got elected. I served 
three terms, and then the good people from southern Indiana decided I 
needed a little bit of a rest, and I took that rest for 2 years, got 
reelected 2 years later, and immediately joined the fiscally 
responsible group called the Blue Dog Democrats, and I'm glad that I 
am.

Now, Blue Dogs just don't bark. They also put into place policy. And 
one of the things that we have done is introduce the Fiscal Honesty and 
Accountability Act. What does the Fiscal Accountability Act do? It 
reinstates statutorily the PAYGO rules that have led us out of this 
debt in the past and into surpluses. They were instrumental in 
producing the surpluses that we enjoyed in the late 1990s and the early 
2000s.

This bill also closes a loophole in current law that allows almost 
any spending to be designated as emergency spending.

Now, for those who are listening on C-SPAN, what does that mean? You 
know, we can pay PAYGO rules in the House, and all PAYGO rules means is 
if we're going to spend extra money or we're going to reduce taxes, 
you've got to figure out a way to pay for it. It's pretty pure and 
simple, but it requires discipline.

One of the ways that Congress gets around the PAYGO rules is by 
enacting spending measures. For example, we may have an emergency 
spending measure on the war in Iraq.

Well, Members of Congress from both parties use that spending measure 
to insert other nonrelated emergency spending measures into the 
emergency spending in order to get around the PAYGO rules. The Fiscal 
Honesty and Accountability Act will stop that practice; and it's the 
Blue Dogs who are leading the charge and making sure that we stop 
playing games with our Nation's budget, because we really do have to 
get serious here now about doing something about our Nation's budget. 
It's swirling out of control. I think most people are shocked when they 
learn that the Chinese Government is buying a lot of our debt in this 
country, affecting our foreign policy. This kind of practice needs to 
stop. And the Blue Dogs are leading the charge in making sure that it 
does get stopped by passing the Fiscal Accountability and Honesty Act.

Now, other things that we are doing, we're offering a balanced budget 
amendment and we're trying to pass a resolution strengthening the 
budget process. When I talk about the Blue Dogs are not just about bark 
but about policy as well, I mean it. We're putting our actions where 
our words are, and we're here tonight to talk about that and to ask the 
Congress to pass the Fiscal Honesty and Accountability Act, which 
implements PAYGO rules and stops the clowning around with emergency 
spending measures.

So, Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to have this opportunity to join my 
fellow Blue Dogs to talk about fiscal responsibility. I applaud the 
leadership of the Blue Dogs on this particular issue. We're going to 
keep on barking. We're going to keep on implementing policy. I thank 
the gentleman from Arkansas for yielding me this time, and I yield back 
my time to him.