# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `7fb9a62a0b604719c760d998218e5278`
`Mr. CONAWAY — 30 September 2008`

---


Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information for 
publication in the Congressional Record regarding the four earmarks I 
received as part of H.R. 2638, The Consolidated Security, Disaster 
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009:

Requesting Member: Congressman K. Michael Conaway

 Bill Number: H.R. 2683

 Account: Army, Other Procurement

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Texas Army National Guard

 Address of Requesting Entity: Camp Mabry, Austin,Texas 78763-5218

 Description of Request: Provide $2,000,000 to the Texas Military 
Forces (TXMF) for eight Joint Incident Scene Communication Capability 
(JISCC) packages required for disaster response. This equipment enables 
the Texas National Guard Joint Inter-Agency Task Force (JIATF) to 
command and control its interagency structure in and out of Texas in 
support of other states under the Emergency Management Assistance 
Compact. It supports the various disaster command posts including the 
Joint Interagency Task Force headquarters, each subordinate task force 
command post, local incident command posts, Emergency Operations 
Centers, and other multi-agency coordination centers. The JISCC system 
also uses Department of Defense satellites eliminating the persistent 
shortage of funds to pay for commercial satellite service. Ten JISCC 
packages have been authorized in previous years, but currently, the 
Texas National Guard has only two on-hand.

 Requesting Member: Congressman K. Michael Conaway

 Bill Number: H.R. 2683

 Account: Army, Other Procurement

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Texas Army National Guard

 Address of Requesting Entity: Camp Mabry, Austin,Texas 78763-5218

 Description of Request: Provide the Texas National Guard $800,000 
for the procurement of 700- and 800-Megahertz APCO-25 standard two-way 
radios for operational and tactical interagency interoperability in 
their disaster response task force. This project allows the Texas 
National Guard forces to utilize 700 and 800 MHz trunked radio systems 
being linked across Texas as established in the State Communications 
Interoperability Plan. It further fully enables interagency 
interoperability to coordinate and synchronize interagency efforts to 
maintain unity of effort.

 Requesting Member: Congressman K. Michael Conaway

 Bill Number: H.R. 2683

 Account: Army, RDT & E

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Zebra Imaging

 Address of Requesting Entity: 9801 Metric Blvd., Suite 200, Austin, 
Texas 78758

 Description of Request: Provide $2,480,000 in funding to complete 
the final phase of a three-year development program to provide a field-
deployable version of the Enhanced Holographic Imager (EHI) system. The 
holographic imager system is used to produce 3-D imagery for the Army's 
tactical battlefield visualization program, and has proven to be an 
extremely useful capability for deployed Army and U.S. Special 
Operations Command warfighters. Over 1700 holographic images were 
provided to soldiers in theater in 2007. The deployable EHI will 
produce holograms three times faster than the current system (improving 
responsiveness to the war fighter) and is transportable allowing the 
imager to be located closer to the tactical users.

 Requesting Member: Congressman K. Michael Conaway

 Bill Number: H.R. 2683

 Account: Army, RDT & E

 Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Texas Tech University

 Address of Requesting Entity: 19th and University, Lubbock, Texas 
79409

 Description of Request: Provide $3,000,000 to Texas Tech University 
to research the use of Compact Pulsed Power as a scientific base for 
integrating electrical weapons systems onto all-electric combat 
vehicles. Compact Pulsed Power is the use of targeted electromagnetic 
radiation to disable electronic devices such as cell phones. Initial 
research indicates that compact pulsed power technology could be 
beneficial to the Department of Defense by being able to disable 
Improvised Explosive Devices used in Iraq and Afghanistan. Texas Tech 
has developed the technology but needs to field test it in order to 
deploy it with troops on the ground. An existing lightly armored 
vehicle such as a HMMWV will be modified to an all-electric platform 
with an integrated fuel cell and auxiliary battery pack. Two or three 
types of electric weapon systems (high power microwave (HPM) generator, 
hypervelocity rail gun, and/or high power laser) will be integrated 
into the platform. Individually each of these systems is quite complex 
and the combination of any two of these systems will increase the 
integration problem exponentially. The information gained from this 
research could be significant in furthering the nation's defense 
capabilities.
