---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `7fba56e8c3452072170429778941730c`
`Mr. SMITH — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Webb-Hagel 
dwell time amendment. Our service men and women are under constant 
strain, spending more time in theater than they have with their 
families. These men and women are risking their lives to protect this 
country, some on their fourth tour in Iraq. Their bodies are aching and 
their minds are stressed, but by the time they become acclimated to 
home life, they are sent back into combat. Something must be done to 
prevent the breakdown of our military and the men and women who serve. 
This amendment would provide our troops ample rest and recuperation, 
time to visit with family, and an opportunity to extract our troops 
from the stress of war.

The Oregon National Guard has served admirably since we began combat 
operations in 2001. I could not be more proud of their contributions to 
the war on terror while still serving as the foundation of their 
families and communities.

Many citizen-soldiers have been on multiple deployments for over a 
year at a time, placing a significant strain on their families, 
employers, and communities. The amendment will give our soldiers 
predictability by preventing surprise deployments. Providing a 
consistent schedule allows them to plan for this disruption. Often, 
these men and women are the core of the community, the major 
breadwinner of their family or a needed caregiver and require advanced 
notice to plan for such a major disruption in their lives.

If current enlistment levels do not allow us to provide our troops 
with the rest and recuperation needed to protect our Nation, then we 
must examine increasing the number of volunteer troops, both Active 
Duty and Reserve.

For the past 10 years, we have shrunk the National Guard and ignored 
their call for needed resources. As a country, we are finally realizing 
the importance of our citizen-soldiers. They serve admirably in combat 
operations overseas, they provide help at home in the face of a natural 
disaster or emergency, and they are the bedrock of our community. 
Giving them some stability in their lives is the least we can do.

I urge my fellow Senators to join me in supporting the Webb-Hagel 
dwell time amendment.