---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `7fce250a73df8247a092634cc644904c`
`Ms. DeLAURO — 15 May 2007`

---


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of beginning the process 
to redeploy our troops in the coming months.

I first began calling for troop redeployment early last year when--
despite the removal of Saddam Hussein, significant training of Iraqi 
police and army units, and the opening for a potential democracy in the 
Middle East--it became clear, it was time for a new direction in Iraq. 
I called for our troops to be redeployed within the year as it had 
become all too evident that they would be caught in the middle of 
escalating sectarian violence if they stayed. I urged the 
administration to adopt the recommendations of the Iraq study group to 
get the most stable result, but the administration rejected that advice 
and escalated the war.

Yet today, as violence in Iraq has only gotten worse with the number 
of U.S. dead and wounded continuing to grow and countless numbers of 
Iraqis dying in what has become a full blown civil war, this 
Administration tries to impose a military solution that cannot work. 
The escalation, which this administration now says will last until next 
spring, is simply the wrong way to go. Let us serve our men and women 
fighting overseas and recognize their sacrifices by charting a new 
course in Iraq.

Over the coming months, we must begin a responsible withdrawal of our 
troops. Only by moving forward with a redeployment of our troops can we 
provide the teeth necessary to force the Bush Administration and the 
Iraqi government to implement the benchmarks they set themselves, 
including de- bathification, minority rights, and sharing oil revenue.

I fully support funding for our troops as we scale down our 
operations in Iraq. I also believe the United States must stay engaged, 
leaving a limited number of forces to hunt down Al Qaeda and other 
terrorist operatives, help train Iraqi forces, and maintain a presence 
in neighboring countries.

It is just as important for this administration to start getting 
serious about a diplomatic offensive. I believe it must work harder in 
coordination with Iraq's neighbors and other leading countries to help 
the Iraqis settle their political differences and provide support for 
the reconstruction efforts.



By bringing the vast majority of our troops home in the coming months 
we will show both the Iraqis and the world that we are serious, that we 
believe the military mission is done, and that it is time for the 
Iraqis to take accountability for their country.

Mr. Speaker, by voting to redeploy in the coming months, I vote for 
accountability in Iraq. We can delay no longer. As a Congress we have a 
responsibility to support the troops, to honor our commitment to 
veterans, hold the Iraqi government accountable, and continue to press 
the President to change course and end this war.

I have made this clear before, and I will repeat it again here, 
today. Too many lives are at stake: I have crossed the Rubicon on this 
war.

Yet the President has chosen another path. While the American people 
continue to throw their hands in the air, this administration continues 
to ignore the painful consequences of its disastrous strategy. With his 
own veto last week, the President made clear his strategy will not 
change--unless we do something about it, here today.

We all know our troops will do anything their country asks--but let 
us not ask them to sacrifice everything for the wrong mission. We have 
a responsibility to get it right.
