# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `7fd171e75aa5c8b3c279290d3882ea88`
`Mr. DUNCAN — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me


this time, and I rise in support of this resolution.

There is nothing conservative about the war in Afghanistan. In fact, 
it goes against every traditional conservative position I have ever 
known. It has meant massive foreign aid which we cannot afford and of 
which conservatives have traditionally been the biggest critics. It has 
meant huge deficit spending, shortly after a time when the Congress has 
raised our national debt to over $14 trillion. Conservatives have 
traditionally been against huge deficit spending. Conservatives have 
been the biggest critics of the U.N. and biggest opponents to world 
government, and certainly the war in Afghanistan has gone right along 
with that.

Fiscal conservatives should be the most horrified about the hundreds 
of billions that has been spent over there. This war has gone on for 
more than 8 years. At a time when the war in Iraq had gone on for a far 
shorter time than that, William F. Buckley, who opposed the war in 
Iraq, wrote this about that war: ''A respect for the power of the 
United States is engendered by our success and engagements in which we 
take part. A point is reached when tenacity conveys not steadfastness 
of purpose, but misapplication of pride.''

He went on to say, if this war drags on, talking about the war in 
Iraq, he said, ''Where there had been skepticism about our venture, 
there will be contempt.''

All of those words apply equally well to the war in Afghanistan. 
There is nothing conservative about the war in Afghanistan.

Georgie Ann Geyer, the conservative foreign affairs columnist, she 
wrote also about the war in Iraq, but it applies to this war as well. 
She said, ''Critics of the war have said since the beginning of the 
conflict that Americans, still strangely complacent about overseas wars 
being waged by minorities in their name, will inevitably come to a 
point where they will see they have to have a government that provides 
services at home or one that seeks empire across the globe.''

We should remember, Madam Speaker, that even General Petraeus said we 
should never forget that Afghanistan has been known as the ''graveyard 
of empires.'' Our Constitution does not give us the power or the right 
to run another country, and that is what we have been doing.

It should have come as no surprise, Madam Speaker, that President 
Karzai of Afghanistan told ABC News recently that the U.S. needs to 
stay there for 15 to 20 years more, spending megabillions, of course. 
He wants our money, and he wants to stay in power.

But listen to what columnist George Will has said. He has now changed 
his position and has written about Afghanistan, that the budget will 
not support an expansion there. The military ''will be hard-pressed to 
execute it, and America's patience will not be commensurate with 
Afghanistan's limitless demands. This will not end well.'' Those are 
not my words. Those are the words of George Will.

A very small but very powerful group called neoconservatives, who are 
really not conservative at all, have almost totally controlled U.S. 
foreign policy for many years. They are supported by very large 
companies and government officials who benefit from perpetual war and 
the billions of spending it requires.

George Will wrote in that same column that the neoconservatives are 
''magnificently misnamed'' and that they are really the ''most radical 
people in this town.''

The Pentagon now says it costs $1 billion per year for each 1,000 
troops we send there. We can't afford this. We can't afford to keep 
spending hundreds of billions in Afghanistan.

We are not cutting and running. We have been there over 8 years now. 
If this resolution passes, we will be there 9 years. That is too long. 
It is not only enough, it is far too long. It is time to do the best 
thing we can do for our troops and bring our young men and women home 
and start putting Americans first once again.