---
---

# None
## `7fd3edf9b2ff965da3bc6997956a1c0b`
`Mr. HUNTER — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank my good friend for yielding. And to both these 
great sons of Alabama, I want to say, thank you for your wonderful work 
and your wonderful service to our country.

I was in Terry's house a couple of summers ago. And we walked out to 
his woodworking studio where he makes all of these great cabinetry, 
wood products and molding. In fact he built this beautiful house by 
himself almost single-handedly using all this machinery that he had in 
his woodworking place. And as we walked across the floor, I noticed a 
bunch of red stains. And I said, what is that, Terry? He said, that is 
when I cut part of my hand off. And I keep that blood to remind me so I 
won't do it again. And I immediately decided that I would not become a 
woodworker. It was too dangerous.

But I am reminded on that trip that Terry Everett was showing me how 
to make cabinets. And he can make cabinets. And if you go in that 
house, you can see he made beautiful ones. I said, Terry, our house 
burned down in California. We're going to have to rebuild it. He said, 
well, Hunter, if you come down here for a week or two, we will make 
some cabinets.

Terry, let me tell you, having now experienced the cost of California 
cabinets, I wish I had come down and worked with you and made those 
cabinets with you out of some of that good old cypress wood. That would 
have been great.

And Bud, I want to thank you incidentally for your great support of 
national defense. I have always been in this Congress kind of a Johnny 
One Note focused on defense issues since I got here. You always support 
a strong national defense. That has helped us to do all the things that 
Terry and I have worked on over the years to rebuild our defense in 
such a way that we're able to bring down the Soviet Union and that we 
were able to free hundreds of millions of people, we were able to bring 
freedom to the captive nations of Eastern Europe and to keep the United 
States a shining star in this very difficult, very dangerous world. And 
your


work to make sure that we kept this country strong is very, very much 
appreciated.

And I have always thought of you as one of those great voices who 
could reach across the aisle and come together in a bipartisan way to 
make this country strong and to do the right thing. And that is so 
important in this body. In fact the ability to reconcile our 
differences and find common ground may be the best characteristic of 
this body.

Now let me tell you about Terry. Terry and I have done a lot of 
political planning. And some people would call it conspiracy. But I 
just call it political planning. Terry Everett has either shown 
enormous loyalty to me or terrible judgment. He supported me in every 
campaign I have run in the House. And I have run for the leadership. I 
have lost some of them, and I have won some of them. And Terry would go 
out and make those vote counts and helped me. Sometimes he would sit 
and say, Hunter, I think you're going to be a little bit short here, 
but we're going to drive on. And we always drove on. And in the end, 
it's not whether you won all those contests. It's the great friends 
that you made while you were on the way, while you were competing.



If you think that loyalty and friendship are important components of 
the American character, then Terry Everett is just full of character. 
And also he is a character. And if you listen to him, you will see a 
great sense of humor, an ability to laugh at the world, even when the 
world has taken some dangerous turns, and go back to work in a quiet 
way and get things done.

I have also said that Terry, behind closed doors, is one of our 
members on the Armed Services Committee and on the Intelligence 
Committee, so he ties those two committees together; one committee that 
oversees this $600 billion-plus budget and this enormous fighting force 
of the Army and the Navy and the Marine Corps and the Air Force, and 
the other committee which oversees this very important arm called the 
Intelligence Branch, which gives us the information that we need to 
keep this country safe and secure. And many times those two entities, 
the defense community and the intelligence community, have to come 
together and work together, just like they are working together in Iraq 
and Afghanistan right now.

Let me tell you, a lot of the coordination that is taking place right 
now in Iraq and Afghanistan between people that are working in very 
difficult, inconvenient places and risking a lot, their effectiveness 
and their coordination to a large degree is a result of the work of the 
guy sitting right in front of me, Mr. Terry Everett.

So, Terry, you are a life-long friend, a great, great American, and I 
have got to tell you, working on the Armed Services Committee with you 
for so many years has been a real joy. It has been a great thing for 
this Nation to have you in the traces there pulling that plow, doing 
that hard work every day. You are going to be tough to replace.

Bud, I know you are going to be tough to replace too. You have done 
wonderful work.

Terry, you are one of two guys retiring from political life from the 
Armed Services Committee. Jimmy Saxton is the other one, and I gave him 
his parting gift from the Hunter family. I have got one for you. I am 
going to give it to you now, Terry. I am going to present it to you 
about five times this week so I can get a lot of mileage out of it.

I want to tell you just a little story about this picture. This 
picture was painted, this is a signed and numbered lithograph by Olaf 
Wieghorst, who at the time he passed away in San Diego, California, and 
he was a great friend, he was the highest-priced Western artist in the 
world. He was a grand old guy who had been part of the American cavalry 
in the early 1900s and became a great artist, without ever taking a 
lesson.

In fact, if you go rent the movie ''El Dorado'' with John Wayne and 
Robert Mitchum and James Caan, you will see that Olaf Wieghorst is the 
Swedish gunsmith in the movie. He was in that movie because John Wayne 
had a number of his pictures, as did Ronald Reagan and Barry Goldwater, 
and Wayne told him to come down to the movie set one time, and he did 
that, and they put him in this movie ''El Dorado.''

So I want you to check out ''El Dorado,'' and you will see my old 
friend Olaf Wieghorst, who painted your picture. And I believe your 
picture is rolled on the screen during the credits as they sing the 
opening ballad in this great Western movie. So I want you to go down 
and look at that.

But one reason I am going you this Olaf Wieghorst picture of the 
American West is this: The quintessential American Westerner is 
straight ahead, looked you right in the eye, his word was his bond, 
loyalty was his trademark, and that is Terry Everett.

So, Terry, I want you to look at this picture and remember that the 
Hunter Rancho has lots of rooms in it since we have rebuilt after the 
fire, and we look forward to you coming up and bringing some of your 
cabinet making tools. Maybe you can show Mrs. Hunter and I how to make 
a couple of extras.

But thank you for your great service to this country. That flag over 
this Capitol waives proudly and waives more securely because you 
served.

Thank you very much for your service.

And Bud Cramer, thank you, my great friend, for your service to our 
country also.

I am going to take this picture back, Terry, because I am going to 
present it to you about five more times.