# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `7fd92d4671dd77c251874164fbeb3017`
`Mr. BAYH — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart and deep 
sense of gratitude to honor the life of a brave soldier from Fort 
Wayne. Ryan Woodward, 22 years old, was killed on September 8 in Balad, 
Iraq, from injuries sustained by small arms fire during combat 
operations near Baghdad. With an optimistic future before him, Ryan 
risked everything to fight for the values Americans hold close to our 
hearts, in a land halfway around the world.

Ryan graduated from Carroll High School in 2003 and joined the Army 
in 2006. It was concern for his country's welfare that drove him to 
enlist as his grandfather and uncle had before him. Ryan was hugely 
proud to follow in their footsteps. Excelling in his service, Ryan was 
awarded the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the National Defense Service 
Medal, the Iraq Campaign Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, the Overseas Service Ribbon, the Combat 
Infantryman's Badge and the Parachutist's Badge.

Ryan was killed while serving his country in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
He was assigned to A Troop, 1st Squadron, 73rd Cavalry Regiment, 82nd 
Airborne Division from Fort Bragg, NC. Ryan is survived by his parents 
Michael and Sue Woodward, his sisters Tasha and Brooke, and his brother 
Ben. Those who knew him best describe an adventurous young man who 
enjoyed life and cared deeply about his family and friends. He will be 
remembered as a loving son, brother, and friend.

Today, I join Ryan's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Ryan, a memory that will burn brightly 
during these continuing days of conflict and grief.

Ryan was known for his dedication to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, Ryan will be remembered by family members, 
friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we honor the 
sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Ryan's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of Ryan's actions will live on far longer than any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Ryan A. Woodward in the Record 
of the Senate for his service to this country and for his profound 
commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about this 
just cause in which we are engaged, and the unfortunate pain that comes 
with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like Ryan's can find 
comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow 
up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all 
faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Ryan.











Private First Class Shawn D. Hensel


Mr. President, I also rise today with a heavy heart and deep sense of 
gratitude to honor the life of a brave young man from Logansport. Shawn 
Hensel, 20 years old, was killed on August 12 while deployed in West 
Baghdad, Iraq, of injuries sustained from rocket-propelled grenade and 
small arms fire. With his entire life before him, Shawn risked 
everything to fight for the values Americans hold close to our hearts, 
in a land halfway around the world.

Shawn attended Logansport High School, and was known as a class clown 
who followed his own path instead of the crowd. His teacher, John 
Morgan, said, ''Shawn was his own person. He would do just what he 
wanted to do. He wanted to experience life.'' After receiving his 
general equivalency degree in 2006, Shawn joined the Army. Friends say 
he knew he wanted to join the military since he was 13 years old.

Shawn was killed while serving his country in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. He was assigned to B Company, 2nd Battalion, 23rd Infantry 
Regiment, 2nd Infantry Division in Fort Lewis, WA. He is survived by 
his wife Laci N. Harmon, whom he married on December 28, 2006, his 
parents David and Elizabeth Ann Hensel, his sisters Autumn M. Vail and 
Angela R. Hensel, as well as his in-laws and extended family. Shawn 
will be remembered as a loving husband, son, and brother.

Today, I join Shawn's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his


courage and strength of character that people will remember when they 
think of Shawn, a memory that will burn brightly during these 
continuing days of conflict and grief.

Shawn was known for his daredevil streak, a tough exterior and a 
passion for the outdoors, especially kayaking. Those who knew him best 
will remember him for the devotion he had to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, Shawn will be remembered by family members, 
friends and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we honor the 
sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Shawn's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of Shawn's actions will live on far longer that any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Shawn D. Hensel in the Record 
of the Senate for his service to this country and for his profound 
commitment to freedom, democracy and peace. When I think about this 
just cause in which we are engaged, and the unfortunate pain that comes 
with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like Shawn's can find 
comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow 
up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all 
faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Shawn.












 Sergeant Nicholas J. Patterson
