---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `7fe8ff763b81b0923ef209e4000ab13c`
`Mr. HOYER — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, this bill is not cut and run. It's think and 
succeed. It's a good policy to try.

Mr. Speaker, tonight this House will adopt this reasonable conference 
report that fully funds our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and that 
responds to the will of the American people, who are demanding, 
demanding, that our Nation change course. I urge all of our Members 
here, on both sides of the aisle, to support this bill.

After the Senate passes this conference report and it is sent to the 
White House, I urge and implore the President to sign this bill, even 
though he seems determined to veto this legislation, thereby defying 
the will of the American people, 70 percent of whom disapprove of his 
handling of the war in Iraq.

I know there is not a Member in this body who does not pray for our 
success in Iraq and for the safe return of our brave servicemen and 
women who serve us there. However, we cannot ignore the facts. After 
the loss of more than 3,300 American soldiers and nearly 25,000 
injured, and after the expenditure of more than $400 billion, which 
will be after the end of this fiscal year some $600 billion, on a war 
now in its fifth year, even President Bush and Secretary of Defense 
Gates acknowledge that our efforts are not succeeding.

The Defense Department has concluded that the situation in Iraq is 
''properly descriptive of a civil war.'' The Army Chief of Staff has 
issued warnings about the effect of the war on America's overall 
military readiness. And the Iraq Government has failed to meet 
political goals, such as reversing debaathification, drafting a plan 
for national reconciliation and disbanding militias, all of which are 
essential if we are to reach a political solution, as General Petraeus 
says is necessary.

In fact, last week, six ministers loyal to Muqtada al Sadr withdrew 
from the Iraqi Government, imperiling the chances of political 
resolution, which General Petraeus, as I said, says is imperative 
because, quoting again General Petraeus, ''There is no military 
solution to a problem like that in Iraq.'' General Petraeus: ''There is 
no military solution to a problem like that in Iraq.''

Meanwhile, the violence in Iraq continues. In just the last 2 weeks, 
a suicide attack inside the Iraqi Parliament killed eight, and 
spectacular car bombs, which occur almost daily, have killed hundreds.

Thus, Mr. Speaker, the question before the Members again today is 
this: Will we change direction in Iraq, or will we continue to stay the 
course with a failing policy? That is the question before this House 
tonight.

The answer, I think, is clear. After 4 years of rubber-stamping this 
administration's failed policy, not a service to the American people, 
this Congress must insist on accountability and a new direction. As the 
Speaker has said, more blank checks from this Congress would constitute 
an abdication of our responsibility and of our duty.

In short, this conference report protects our troops, requiring 
deployments to adhere to existing Defense Department standards. Mr. 
Murtha has not adopted these standards, nor has Mr. Obey, nor have any 
of us on this side of the aisle. These are Defense Department standards 
for training, acquiring equipment and armor, while allowing the 
President to waive those standards that are the Defense Department 
standards if, in his judgment, national security requires it. How much


more responsible a position can we take?

The conference report holds the Iraqi Government accountable. I think 
that reflects the sentiments of the American people, who believe that 
the Iraqis need to step up and take responsibility. What Secretary 
Gates said was if we do not have a consequence of not taking 
responsibility, they will not do it.

In fact, even if Mr. Maliki wants to do it, he will not be able to 
get the disparate factions in Iraq to do it, unless they feel a 
necessity to do it. We've seen that here in this Congress. That's 
democracy at work. So this is an assistance to the Iraqi Government to 
bring people together, because it says if you don't, there is a 
consequence. The American public supports that alternative.

And it includes a responsible strategy for a phased redeployment of 
U.S. forces and refocuses, refocuses our efforts on fighting al Qaeda 
and the Taliban in Afghanistan. There is nobody in this Congress who 
does not want to nor is not committed to confronting and defeating 
terrorism. No one should be misled by the false claims of those who 
argue that we must follow the same failing stay-the-course strategy. 
This bill does not constitute capitulation or micromanaging this war.

This may sound harsh, but had somebody told Custer that you are not 
supporting the troops unless you leave them here, they would have been 
wrong. As retired General Paul Eaton, who was in charge of training the 
Iraqi military in 2003 and 2004 recently stated, ''This bill gives 
General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi Government down 
the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group. The real 
audience for the timeline language is Prime Minister Maliki,'' as I 
have said, ''and the elected Government of Iraq.'' So concluded Paul 
Eaton, the general in charge of training Iraqis in 2003 and 2004.

Mr. Speaker, the American people want and deserve a Congress that 
holds the Iraqis accountable for making progress. The American people 
are paying a steep price; our children are paying a steep price for 
this war. They haven't been given the bill yet, but they will be. And 
our young men and women, and not so young men and women, are paying 
with their lives, with their limbs, and with their health.

The American people want and deserve, as I have said, a Congress that 
holds the Iraqis accountable, that holds the administration accountable 
for implementing a policy designed to succeed. This conference report 
gives us that opportunity.

I urge all of my colleagues, on every side of the aisle, from 
whatever party, support this conference report. I urge the President, 
when we pass this conference report, when the Senate passes it and we 
send it to the President, sign this conference report. It fully funds 
our troops, it does not micromanage the war, it tells the Iraqis we 
expect accountability; because if they take accountability, our troops 
will be safer, our country will be better off and Iraq will be on the 
path to democracy that we hope for her and pray for her.