---
---

# None
## `7fee886e1c58ded4c6484fe5d4110c59`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. As you have said on more than one occasion 
on the floor, Mr. Ryan, what we have needed all along here is a 
diplomatic surge, not a military surge. It is such a shame that we have 
abandoned so much of American foreign policy. In fact, more than 50 
years of American foreign policy that were centered around deterrence, 
diplomacy and containment. Instead, we went into the wrong-headed 
policies of preemption and unilateralism, which have brought us to the 
quagmire that we are in today.

It breaks my heart to travel with Jack Murtha to Bethesda and see the 
young men and women who are there, who have become the heroes, of 
course, in our country, but victims of a myopic, failed strategy with 
no exit in sight.

How much longer can the American public, or for that matter, this 
body, put up with the slogans that ''we will stand down as the Iraqis 
stand up,'' when more of our troops are needed and less Iraqis continue 
to join us; when they decide that they are going to take the next 
couple of months off while we slog it out in a civil war?

Our soldiers don't know in many respects who the enemy is over there, 
because oftentimes they are getting played, one religious sect against 
another, settling ages of old scores rather than accomplishing any kind 
of goal of establishing a democracy or establishing a government or 
people that are going to stand up so that we can stand down.