---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `7fef0b40567d914173ce962fb29bca5c`
`Mr. BARRASSO — 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to express our Nation's 
deepest thanks and gratitude to a special young man and his family. I 
was deeply saddened to receive word during the past recess that that on 
March 24, 2010, LCpl Jacob A. Ross of Gillette, WY, was killed in the 
line of duty while serving our country in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom. Lance Corporal Ross was killed in combat in Helmand Province 
in southern Afghanistan.

Lance Corporal Ross was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 2nd Marine 
Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force out of 
Camp Lejeune, NC. Lance Corporal Ross graduated from Campbell County 
High School in 2008. He is remembered by his friends as hard-working, 
intelligent and kind-hearted. He was athletic and was on the swimming 
and soccer teams in high school. Jacob had a passion for the outdoors 
and loved to hunt, fish and camp under the Wyoming skies. He always 
wanted to be a marine. After graduation, he followed in his father's 
footsteps and joined the U.S. Marine Corps.

It is because of Jacob Ross that all Americans are able to live our 
daily lives as free people. Freedom is not free. It carries a very high 
price. And that price has been paid over and over by America's men and 
women who answer the call to service and willingly bear the burdens of 
defending our Nation. They deserve our deepest respect and gratitude. 
They put their very lives on the line every day, and because of them 
and their families, our nation remains free and strong in the face of 
danger.

The motto of the U.S. Marine Corps is ''Semper Fidelis.'' It means 
''Always Faithful.'' LCpl Jacob Ross lived up to these words with great 
honor. He gave his life, that last full measure of devotion, for you, 
me, and every single American. He gave his life serving and defending 
his country and its people, and we honor him for this selfless 
sacrifice. He was always faithful to our country and its citizens, and 
to his fellow marines.

Lance Corporal Ross is survived by his wife Brittney, and his parents 
Karen and Dennis, his sister Katie and his brother, Nathan. He is also 
survived by his brothers and sisters in arms of the U.S. Marine Corps. 
We say goodbye to a son, a husband, a brother, a friend, and a marine. 
The United States of America pays its deepest respect to LCpl Jacob A. 
Ross for his courage, his love of country and his sacrifice, so that we 
may remain free. He was a hero in life and he remains a hero in death. 
All of Wyoming, and indeed the entire Nation, is proud of him. May God 
bless him and his family. Lance Corporal Ross, Semper Fi.
