---
---

# AMERICAN JOBS AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT OF 2010
## `800805954d4fce63de4081021271400f`
`Mr. WEBB — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, today marks the 1-year anniversary of the 
implementation of the post-9/11 GI bill, landmark legislation I was 
privileged to introduce on my first day in office. The idea was to 
provide those who have served since 9/11 with the most comprehensive 
educational benefits since World War II. We did that. We began with a 
simple concept even before I decided to run for the Senate, and that 
was, if we keep calling these people the ''next greatest generation,'' 
we should, as a Nation, express our appreciation in a proper way--by 
giving them the same types of educational benefits those who came back 
from World War II received: pay their tuition, buy their books, and 
give them a monthly stipend. It was a formula that worked magnificently 
for those who served during World War II, where 7.8 million of those 
veterans, because of the GI bill, were able to have a first-class 
future and make an imprint on the future of our country.

We worked very hard in my office, with a lot of staff, pushing this 
legislation. We eventually achieved the key cosponsorship of three 
other Senators, including Senators John Warner, my former senior 
Senator, a Republican from Virginia; Chuck Hagel, of Nebraska, now 
departed, another Republican; and Frank Lautenberg, of New Jersey, a 
fellow Democrat. So we approached this in a way that we were trying to 
show a balance. We had two World War II veterans, two Vietnam veterans, 
two Republicans and two Democrats. We wanted to strip the politics out 
of the issue.

Along with our colleagues on this side and also in the House and the 
cooperation of the leading veterans service groups and the higher 
education community and, quite frankly, despite the continued 
opposition of the previous administration, which for some reason 
opposed this legislation all the way to the day before they signed it, 
we were able to get this bill through.

I am so proud of the fact of having accomplished that goal 2 years 
ago. The bill was signed into law 1 year ago today. This bill went into 
effect for those who have served this Nation so honorably and so well 
since 9/11. I can report to this body that as of today, in this first 
year of implementation alone, more than 550,000 veterans have applied 
to receive this benefit, and more than 267,000 veterans are now 
attending classes using the post-9/11 GI bill. That is more than a 
quarter of a million young men and women who otherwise might not have 
had the opportunity for a truly first-class future.


As my fellow Senators know, I am someone who grew up in the military. 
I was privileged to serve as an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. I am 
very proud of my son who served as a marine in Iraq and my son-in-law 
who also served as a marine in Iraq and Afghanistan and continues to 
serve, and so many of my friends and compatriots over the years. I 
understand what it means to be a proper steward in this body toward 
those who have given this type of service. That is our duty, and this 
GI bill shows a sense of responsibility and the desire of the 
leadership of this country to see those who serve be able to move 
forward in their lives after their service and continue to provide 
great contributions to our country.

When I ran for office--also I should point out--I spoke about the 
need to reclaim economic fairness in this country, particularly in 
times as we see right now where our economic health is in danger. The 
health of our society overall is measured by how working people are 
able to make it through different barriers and achieve alongside people 
who have had greater advantages. This bill today does that, just as it 
did after World War II.

We should remember, as we look at the implementation of this GI bill, 
what it did for those who served in World War II, very few of whom ever 
thought they would be able to have a college education once they went 
into the military during those dark and troubled times.

For every dollar through taxes that was put into that World War II GI 
bill, our country received $7 in tax remunerations because those people 
were able to go forward and have a truly first-class future. This is 
what we are doing now.

We have never erred as a country when we have made sustained 
investments in higher education for our people, particularly when it 
comes to veterans. This is not simply an advantage for this country, it 
is an obligation we have.

I want to, on this day, remember the contributions of other people in 
this body and in the House of Representatives in coming together to 
pass this legislation. I thank the American Legion, the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the 
Military Officers Association of America, the American Council on 
Education, the National Association of Independent Colleges and 
Universities, and many others, including nearly 60 Senators and more 
than 300 Members of the House who signed on as cosponsors to this 
landmark effort.

We can all take pride today in saying we have been able to provide a 
proper investment in the future of those since 9/11 who have given so 
much to this country.

I yield the floor.