---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `80142bffc907ba7d65f3d7dc902ecda1`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. Speaker, 2 days ago, this body passed an 
omnibus appropriations bill that, while limited in its priority only to 
the most basic domestic needs in this country due to the stubbornness 
of the President and Republicans in the Senate, funded over a half a 
trillion dollars for important programs that will help all Americans. 
Now, however, we are being asked to attach to that bill $70 billion in 
unchecked, unconditional, and unqualified spending for the war in Iraq. 
It is absolutely unacceptable that we continue to provide the President 
with funding without providing explicit requirements that he redeploy 
our troops from Iraq, bolster our diplomatic efforts throughout the 
Middle East, and engage other countries in the region in a political 
solution. For those reasons, I will be voting against this funding.

Our soldiers have acted with unquestionable bravery and patriotism in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. They have given their time, their devotion, and 
in some cases their lives. And it is time for them to come home. Yet, 
their military accomplishments are not being complemented with 
political or diplomatic accomplishments. The Iraqi government refuses 
to step up to the plate, move toward reconciliation, and unite the 
Iraqi people.

As we prepare to start a new year, it is expected for people to 
reflect on what has transpired from the past, learn from their mistakes 
and decide how they can improve in the future. This does not hold true 
for the President, who instead is blindly demanding unfettered war 
funds without demonstrating any plans for removing our troops from 
harm's way and turning Iraq over to the Iraqi people. We cannot and 
must not continue on this path.