---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF PRIVATE FIRST CLASS STEVEN A. DAVIS
## `8014aa368635e2ffcfd0ed2f7561bbe1`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
life of Private First Class Steven A. Davis and to recognize his 
service to our nation.

PFC Davis was a true patriot who served his country with honor. 
Throughout his life he selflessly dedicated himself to his fellow 
soldiers, family and friends, and to our country.

His family moved to Woodbridge, Virginia, in 2001. Before joining the 
Army, PFC Davis worked in a fast food restaurant to try and pay for 
college. Yearning to serve his country, he enlisted in the Army in 
September 2005, and began his first deployment shortly thereafter. PFC 
Davis was assigned to C Company, 2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 
2nd Infantry Division, Fort Carson, Colorado. Tragically, he was killed 
on July 4, 2007, after sustaining injuries from grenades detonated near 
his mounted patrol. He was honored with the Purple Heart and Bronze 
Star prior to his death.

PFC Davis is survived by his parents Guy and Tess, his wife Ayla and 
their one-year-old daughter Elizabeth, and his brother Specialist Chris 
Davis, who is also a soldier currently deployed to Iraq. His mother, 
Tess, is working in Iraq as a paramedic, and his grandfather is working 
there as a mechanic. His father, Buck, is also an Army veteran.

Words cannot express the gratitude we feel to those who have made the 
ultimate sacrifice for our nation; it is a debt that can never be 
repaid. I recognize that words are of little comfort for the family and 
friends of PFC Davis, who are truly suffering in the wake of the loss 
of this intelligent and dedicated man. I hope they will take some 
solace in I knowing that we will never forget PFC Davis and the 
tremendous sacrifice he made while defending our country.

Madam Speaker, in closing, I would like to honor the memory of 
Private First Class Steven A. Davis. I call upon my colleagues to 
remember him as a man who gave his life protecting the American people.
