---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `801eef966ced94ec9fe175d20811cc47`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. I thank the chairman for yielding.

Madam Chairman, I am pleased to stand in strong support of this 
authorization bill tonight. I believe that this bill strengthens our 
capabilities to recognize and counter threats to the United States, 
both terrorist threats from groups like al Qaeda and the strategic 
challenges present in regions all over the world, including the Middle 
East, Asia and Latin America. This bill ensures that U.S. troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan will continue to receive the intelligence support 
they need to conduct their missions.

The bill authorizes the largest intelligence budget ever. It also 
provides full funding for the intelligence programs related to 
Afghanistan and for U.S. efforts to counter terrorist threats.

Madam Chairman, terrorism and the war in Iraq are critical issues, 
and they have required intelligence agencies to divert resources away 
from other strategic challenges. This bill funds initiatives to collect 
better intelligence on those that pose threats to our country. It also 
adds funds to enhance coverage of other challenges, such as emerging 
threats in Africa and Latin America, and to ensure that America is not 
caught by surprise in the future.

The bill makes significant investments to improve the quality of 
intelligence analysts. It provides resources to send more analysts 
overseas so they can gain the real world experiences in the countries 
that they study. It provides funds for expanded foreign language 
training that we all agree is needed, and the development of advanced 
technical tools so both analysts and collectors can better do their 
jobs.

The bill makes us safer by adding resources for counterintelligence 
investigations, and these provisions will help mitigate efforts by our 
adversaries to steal classified information and advanced technologies, 
keeping the U.S. policy options open and preserving our military edge.

Despite these additions, the bill promotes efficiency and 
accountability by cutting programs that lack clear objectives and 
measurable results. It also requires the CIA Inspector General to audit 
covert action programs, ensuring regular oversight.

Madam Chair, this legislation helps us fight terrorists; it supports 
our troops; and it enhances U.S. intelligence capabilities throughout 
the world.

I support this bill, and I strongly recommend that our colleagues do 
as well.