---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `8033bfafd4ea551f98306512c4973807`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from 
Alabama. It is true that we did have a very eventful trip to Iraq to 
talk about what needs to be done there.

But today the opportunity arises to discuss the concern that I have 
with the latest attempt by some of my colleagues to push forward with a 
''comprehensive'' immigration reform bill.

We have been here before. Last year, the Senate pushed through a 
mammoth bill that sought to reform our immigration laws on a 
comprehensive basis. Yet, as predicted, that bill failed. It was a ''do 
everything'' bill that ended up doing nothing.



Well, here we are again this year watching efforts to push through 
another ''do everything'' bill. What is more, this year the language 
has yet to be finalized, and certainly no Member of this body has been 
given the kind of time needed to review the proposal and analyze its 
provisions.

Our immigration system is broken. But, apparently, so is our system 
for fixing it. That is why last year I tried to change the debate on 
immigration reform. Along with my colleague, Senator Sessions, and our 
colleague, Senator Coburn, we introduced a bill that focused solely on 
the most important component of immigration reform, and the first 
component of immigration reform, border security.

Last year during this debate, I tried time and time again to convince 
my colleagues that a comprehensive bill would get nothing accomplished 
and that we needed to concentrate on securing the border first. Today 
we find ourselves right back where we were last year: debating a 
comprehensive bill that has not been finalized, has not been given 
proper consideration, and that, again, will not achieve any of the 
goals we had. So, again this year, I emphasize to my colleagues we must 
concentrate on border security first.

We can only hope to solve our immigration problems if we take it one 
step at a time. There are three steps to resolving this problem: First 
is border security; second is fixing legal immigration and the process 
of legal immigration; and third is addressing those who are here 
illegally.

Now, we can take steps 1 and 2 at the same time. So we made some 
progress on the first step last year. We passed the Secure Fence 
Initiative, and the folks at DHS have made some progress on fixing and 
securing the border. We should give the border security provisions a 
chance to prove that they will work and can effectively slow and stop 
illegal immigration. But instead we are being asked to jump to step 3 
before steps 1 and 2 are completed.

We need to concentrate on accomplishing border security first, as the 
first step for the first leg of this stool. We still have a lot of work 
to do to fix our current system of legal immigration. Why would we jump 
this step and reward these who are here illegally and effectively 
punish those trying to enter this country legally, the right way?

The current immigration process has left so many people frustrated 
with trying to do the right thing and enter this country legally. 
Clearly, we should make sure to help those individuals first. As I have 
said time and again, we need to close the back door to illegal 
immigration while we open the front door to legal immigration. Instead, 
this bill adds more complications and more complexity to our legal 
immigration system that is currently overworked with backlogs and long 
wait times for people who want to enter this country the right way.


We cannot change the letters for a visa from H to Y or Z and expect 
it to work better. We cannot add some complicated and difficult point 
system and expect it to work. We have to fix the system for legal 
immigration, not make it more complicated and even more unworkable. 
This bill will add more problems onto a broken system. We are digging 
ourselves deeper.

Therefore, I believe only after we have accomplished the first two 
steps, which we can do, and can demonstrate that we have made 
considerable progress toward solving those problems, only then can we 
proceed to the third step and turn our attention to handling 10 or 12 
or more million people who are here illegally.

We must secure the borders so we do not have millions more illegal 
immigrants. If we do not, we will only encourage millions more to cross 
the border illegally in the hopes of being part of the amnesty offered 
under this legislation.

From what I have seen and read thus far, I think this bill is only 
about half right. Since it has a series of so-called triggers, the 
current compromise certainly seems to recognize that we have to do 
border security first. So if we recognize we cannot solve our 
immigration problems without first securing the border, then why do we 
continue to insist on mixing in the comprehensive provisions at the 
same time?

If we can understand the need for triggers based on border security 
and workplace enforcement, then we should understand that we cannot 
solve this problem all at once. Why do we continue to rush to pass some 
''comprehensive'' measure when we can approach this problem one step at 
a time?

I propose that instead of triggers, we should consider only passing 
those provisions dealing with border security and enforcement and those 
provisions dealing with worksite and interior enforcement. Instead of 
pushing through everything at once, we need to start solving the 
problem at the border and working from there.

In conclusion, I will vote for cloture on the motion to proceed, but 
not because I support the underlying bill. I will support cloture only 
because I hope we can significantly improve this bill so that it 
addresses the problem properly: at the border first and then fixing the 
legal immigration system. If we do not come up with a bill that 
properly addresses the issue the way I believe it needs to be 
addressed, then I will not be able to support the final product.

I will vote to give us a chance to create a bill that focuses on 
securing the border first and that fixes our broken system for legal 
immigration. I will not, however, support a comprehensive amnesty-based 
bill that creates more problems and that fails to secure our borders 
first.

Madam President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a 
quorum.