---
---

# IRAQ
## `8041931f877d0087b8ee5de8bed301eb`
`Mr. WARNER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise to address the issue of the Iraq 
resolutions.

Tomorrow at 1:45, I will vote for cloture, and I do that for reasons 
that I will set forth. I, like many of us, have to leave early this 
afternoon. I have consolidated all my State obligations and speeches 
between now and late tonight so I may return for the vote.

I want to go back and retrace the history of this debate. When I 
returned from Iraq, with several other Senators, and Senator Levin with 
me, at that time I was chairman of the Armed Services Committee and he 
was ranking. I indicated to the Nation by way of a press conference 
that I felt the situation was going sideways; that our strategy was not 
working.

Initially, in the days following that, I was highly criticized for 
those remarks. Eventually, however, others began to recognize the 
situation as I had, and, indeed, the President, when he was asked 
publicly if he supported the observations that I had made, said yes. I 
commend the President for immediately swinging into full gear his whole 
administration to study intensively the matters with regard to the 
current strategy. It included work by the Baker-Hamilton group, which I 
think played a very constructive role.

In the resolution which I prepared, with the assistance of Senator 
Ben Nelson and Senator Collins, we make direct reference to that. I 
bring up that background because the President then, on January 10, 
announced his intention to go forward with a changed strategy. The 
President, in that speech, specifically said:




 If Members have improvements that can be made--I repeat--if 


 Members have improvements that can be made, we will make 


 them. If circumstances change, we will adjust.


Now, that was an open invitation to Members of Congress and others to 
address this very important plan laid down by the President. Our group, 
my 2 colleagues who worked with me, Senator Levin joining us later, and 
a half dozen others, some 8 or 10, up almost to 12, joined in an honest 
forthright way in accepting the President's offer. That is how this 
started. In drawing up our resolution, we were careful to say, yes, we 
had different views, but we urged the President to consider all 
options--I repeat all options--other than the utilization of 21,500 
individuals to go into that situation.

Specifically, our resolution charges the Iraqi military with taking 
the lead, with taking the brunt. I reiterate, the Iraqis should be 
taking the full measure of responsibility for this Baghdad campaign. 
Therein rests this Senator's primary concern with the President's plan. 
I say that because our American GIs have fought bravely, courageously, 
and we have had sacrifice and loss of life and limb, and in no way have 
they failed in the attempt to try to help the Iraqi people achieve 
their freedom, achieve their Government through elections, and to 
become a sovereign Nation. Now it should fall upon the over 300,000 
Iraqi troops, police, and other security officials to bring about the 
cessation of this violence in Baghdad.

The Iraqis are far better qualified by virtue of their understanding 
of the language. They have a far better understanding of what is it 
that is bringing about this sectarian violence. These are the very 
people we liberated and gave them back their sovereign land and who are 
now fighting themselves, Sunni upon Shia, Shia upon Sunni, with wanton 
murder and criminal activity. Our forces do not understand the 
language. It is hard for those here in this Chamber to go back and look 
at the origins of the difference between the Sunni and Shia, which go 
back some 1,400 years. Our troops shouldn't be in there trying to 
decide do we shoot at a Sunni or do we shoot at a Shia. That should be 
the responsibility of the Iraqi forces. That is the principal reason I 
found differences with the President.


Our leaders, the Record will reflect, have tried to reconcile the 
differences between our two sides. The last time I didn't support 
cloture. I did that to support the institution of the Senate, because 
this Senate stands apart from the House, and stands apart from 
legislatures all over the world because of the right and the freedom to 
debate and for all to bring forth their ideas. We are behind that now. 
So far as I know, the leaders have done their best and we were not able 
to achieve agreement, and now, procedurally, we are faced with the 
situation of a House resolution, which will be voted on in an hour or 
more, and will then be considered by the Senate. For that purpose, I 
will vote cloture.

We supported the President in our resolution. As I read the House 
resolution, it does not reject the President's initiative to have a 
diplomatic component to his plan. The House resolution does not reject 
the economic aspect of what the President puts in his plan. So I say to 
my colleagues that what comes before us does not reject outright the 
President's program. It directs itself to that military operation, much 
as we did in S. Con. Res. 7, and says respectfully that we urge the 
President to consider all options, options that were set forth in 
testimony before the Armed Services Committee by General Abizaid, when 
he said we don't need any more troops; by General Casey, when he was up 
for confirmation and he said he thought we only needed two brigades, 
not five brigades.

So it is against that background that I think our group has come 
forth in response to the President's invitation and stated our case in 
a very respectful way. This matter we will address, the House 
resolution, I do not believe rejects the entire plan of the President. 
The components of diplomacy and the components of economics are there. 
It is only the question of how we employ our forces. I say the burden 
falls on the Iraqi security forces.

I will submit for the Record a New York Times story which appeared 
this week outlining an operation in which we had 2,500 Americans and 
less than 100 Iraqi forces turned up to participate. I asked about this 
yesterday when questioning the Chief of Staff of the United States Army 
and the Commandant of the Marine Corps, as to what their idea of the 
plan had been, and it was represented to us that there were to be joint 
forces, a joint command.

Certainly this is an early report, and I cannot speak to the 
authenticity of the article, but I have invited the Department of 
Defense to comment on it. It indicates to me that the Americans are 
bearing the brunt, not the Iraqi forces.

I ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the Record.