# DARFUR
## `80467fb7c7fd9ce85650dd3798f2ca7f`
`Mr. DURBIN — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, since returning to session, much of our 
discussion has once again been dominated by Iraq. Given the tragedy of 
the administration's Iraq policy and the need to change course, this is 
understandable. Yet Iraq's dominance has meant that many other critical 
foreign policy issues have been ignored or marginalized. From Latin 
America to Russia, this administration has failed to develop or 
implement any kind of coherent strategy.

Similarly, the crisis in Darfur demands more attention. For 4 years, 
the world has watched this tragedy. That is right--for 4 long years. 
Sadly, during this time the world has mostly stood by while yet another 
genocide unfolded before its eyes. Many of us on both sides of the 
aisle and in the international community have repeatedly called for 
greater U.S. and global action.

President Bush has rightly called the situation in Darfur genocide. 
New British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has also said that, ''Darfur is 
the greatest humanitarian crisis the world faces today.'' Yet, despite 
these statements, ultimately we have not done enough.

Today, we are at a critical juncture in Sudan. The genocide in Darfur 
has increasingly become a complex conflict between many factions. 
Refugees have spilled into neighboring countries and humanitarian 
workers are increasingly at risk. And just the other day, a rebel group 
brutally killed 10 African Union peacekeepers in a surprise raid. 
Sadly, the cost in lives, destruction, and human misery has been 
immeasurable.

In late July the U.N. Security Council voted to implement a 
significantly increased United Nations-African Union peacekeeping 
force. This peacekeeping force is desperately needed, and the United 
States should work with the U.N. and the global community to make sure 
it is implemented as soon as possible. We in the Senate should also 
ensure that adequate funds are available to help pay for this critical 
mission. But the peacekeepers are only one important step. Sudan also 
needs a long-term political agreement among its many factions.

Upon taking office in January of this year, U.N. Secretary General 
Ban Ki-moon said that ending the violence in Darfur was going to be one 
of his top priorities. I spoke to him in July about our shared concern 
and commend him for advancing the peacekeeping and diplomatic efforts. 
I believe his tireless work has made an important difference. In early 
September, his efforts resulted in the announcement of formal peace 
talks to begin later this month between the various factions and the 
Sudanese Government.

These negotiations will be a critical step and deserve our strongest 
support. As Secretary Ban said during his recent trip, ''there must be 
a peace to keep.''

Finally, we must hold Sudanese President Bashir to his commitment to


allow peacekeepers and participate in the peace talks.

Early statements by the Government of Sudan said that it would 
''contribute positively to secure the environment for the 
negotiations'' and ''facilitate the timely deployment'' of the 26,000 
member peacekeeping force. But we have heard these commitments before 
and then watched as President Bashir has continued fostering violence.

I, therefore, think it is critical that we maintain pressure on the 
Sudanese Government to honor its commitments. The administration should 
continue its diplomatic efforts, and at the same time the Congress 
should advance bipartisan legislation that I and others have introduced 
to increase economic pressure on the regime.

I commend Chairman Dodd and the Banking Committee for holding a 
hearing yesterday that focused on how best to apply such pressure, and 
I look forward to working with my colleagues to prepare legislation 
that would impose sanctions on, bar Federal contracting with, and 
authorize divestment from organizations that support the regime.

It is critical that the Sudanese Government understand that a lack of 
cooperation with the peacekeepers or the upcoming peace negotiations 
will increase the possibility of such legislation being enacted.

Sadly, we have every reason to be skeptical of the regime's 
intentions.

For example, after agreeing to the peace talks, the Government of 
Sudan brazenly appointed former Interior Minister Ahmad Harun one of 
two Sudanese officials wanted by the International Criminal Court for 
war crimes--to lead a committee to investigate human rights abuses. As 
Interior Minister, Mr. Harun helped fund, recruit, and arm the 
jingaweit militia which was directly involved in perpetuating the 
genocide in Darfur. Mr. Harun's place is on trial in The Hague, not 
investigating violence he helped perpetuate.

Equally troubling are continued attacks on international aid workers 
as well as recent indications that Sudan has started placing 
restrictions on early efforts to deploy U.N. forces.

Mr. President, the stakes are too high and the humanitarian crisis 
has dragged on too long to allow any further backsliding by the 
Sudanese Government. We must see the immediate deployment of the 
peacekeeping force and a concerted global effort at supporting a long-
term political settlement.
