---
---

# GI BILL
## `804c2664f735ec37d68efb083378bba1`
`Mr. TESTER — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise in support of the bipartisan Webb 
GI bill, and I urge the Senate to join me in voting to pass it without 
further delay. As a member of the veterans committee, this legislation 
has been a big priority of mine for the past year and a half.

Montana is home to more than 100,000 veterans. I have spoken with 
many of them over the past year and a half, and I was very pleased to 
work on their behalf last year for the largest increase in funding in 
the history of the VA.

Earlier this year, the Senate passed my legislation to raise the 
reimbursement rate for veterans' travel to and from VA facilities. It 
was the first increase in 30 years.

As American forces continue to be engaged in wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, it is well past time for Congress to step up to the plate and 
deliver for our veterans.

This new GI bill will provide first-class educational benefits for 
those who served since 9/11. It will pay for tuition and books and a 
monthly stipend roughly equivalent to the benefits given to millions of 
Americans following World War II.

The first GI bill created a vibrant middle class that drives our 
economy to this day and makes America the envy of the world. This GI 
bill can do the same again.

Every major veterans organization in this country supports this bill. 
I understand even the White House has dropped its longstanding 
opposition, and the President now says he will sign this bill into law.

Passing the 21st century GI bill will be a landmark achievement for 
this Congress. It will strengthen our Nation's military readiness 
through better recruitment by making military service a more practical 
option, and it will provide an important investment in Americas's 
future by enabling veterans to afford college at a time when career 
options and lifetime earning potential are increasingly linked to 
higher education.

One in nine Montanans have served our country in the military. We 
have one of the highest veterans rates in the country, and our Montana 
values compel us to take care of those who have served. Many of my 
Montana neighbors have written to me in support of this new GI bill for 
the new ''greatest generation.''

One airman from Belt, MT, said to me:




 I hope this bill passes for myself and for future 


 generations. I have been deployed three times in my five and 


 a half years of active duty service, and will be leaving 


 active duty service within the year. This bill is finally 


 something that will allow people to do the things that they 


 put off and that so many have died for since the beginning of 


 our war on terrorism. I ask you to support this bill and 


 allow all our Armed Forces members to succeed in life and all 


 their endeavors.


Another veteran from Kalispell, MT, wrote:




 I read with a great deal of interest your article in the 


 Flathead Beacon about the need for a GI Bill, much like that 


 of what we had in the past. I was able to attend college 


 under the GI Bill after I was discharged from the Army in 


 1956 under that bill enacted for World War II vets. The GI 


 Bill was instrumental in the creation of our middle class. It 


 gave this child of the Depression an opportunity to 


 experience the degree of success that I very likely would not 


 have been able to achieve had it not been for that GI Bill.


These are just two examples of the many letters I have received from 
back home. I know many Senators received similar letters. I call on all 
of my colleagues to join me in voting for this vital legislation. We 
must pass this bill to honor the service and sacrifice of our Nation's 
veterans and to invest in America's future.

I have been pleased to work on this important piece of legislation 
with a bipartisan group of Senators led by the Senator from Virginia, 
one of my fellow members of the Senate class of 2006.

Senator Webb and I hail from different parts of the country and 
different walks of life, but we joined the Senate at the same time with 
a simple hope: to provide a new direction for our Nation.

Last year, Senator Webb and I traveled together to Iraq. We were able 
to visit with quite a few of the brave young men and women who serve 
our country day in and day out. When you talk to these folks, it really 
makes you feel that our Nation is in good hands.


They are serving us well, and now it is time to do right by them. This 
is commonsense legislation that will demonstrate to our veterans that 
America honors their service and cares about their future.

Passing this bill is the right thing to do, and it is the smart thing 
to do. I urge the Senate to vote as soon as possible to pass this new 
GI bill for America's new ''greatest generation.''

I thank the Senator from Missouri for giving me this opportunity to 
speak.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.