---
---

# None
## `804ce3ffe32c1fe500ef7417a03ee697`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. I want to thank the gentleman for yielding. And I also 
want to associate myself with the words of the lady from Texas who just 
spoke.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule and the bill. To 
date, President Bush has asked us for a total of $804 billion for 
fighting the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yesterday, the Joint 
Economic Committee, the committee on which I sit, concluded in a report 
that the real economic cost of these wars is $1.6 trillion. However, 
there are numerous hidden costs that could potentially bring the grand 
total to $3.5 trillion.

In response to the President's failing new strategy in Iraq and 
wasteful spending, Congress has chosen instead to ensure strict 
accountability. We have heard the American people and have chosen to 
exercise fiscal responsibility by considering this vitally important 
legislation.

Namely, the bill limits funding in the amount of $50 billion, in 
comparison to the President's original supplemental request of $196.4 
billion, to continue our military operations in Iraq, while ensuring 
that the responsible and strategic redeployment of our forces begins no 
later than 30 days from the date of enactment.

It also provides troops with the resources needed for continued 
protection from improvised explosive devices.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to exercise their 
responsibility to the American people, to over 3,800 brave soldiers, 71 
from Maryland who have died and who have paid the ultimate price, and 
to more than 2.3 million Iraqis who have fled their homes, by 
supporting the rule and voting in favor of this legislation.