---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8059ad132e0529324b75545aa2481231`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 28 March 2007`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Mr. Chairman, yesterday I was thrilled to join 
four distinguished members of the House Armed Services Committee--Ms. 
Davis, Mr. Gingrey, Mr. Conaway, and our esteemed chairman, Mr. 
Skelton--on a tour of Fort Riley.

I am proud to represent Fort Riley in Congress, and my pride only 
grew as I saw the professionalism and patriotism of Fort Riley's 
troops. Fort Riley is charged with training Military Training Teams--
small groups of American soldiers who recruit, organize, and train 
Iraqi forces to take charge of their nation's security.

Fort Riley goes to tremendous lengths to prepare soldiers for their 
tours in Iraq. The fort runs complex simulations of battle conditions--
they engage actors to portray Arab citizens; they encourage soldiers to 
behave throughout their training as though they are already in Iraq.

For transition teams at Fort Riley, the war begins months before they 
leave American soil. Their war will continue through twelve months of 
hazardous, exhausting deployment in Iraq. And even when they return 
home, their war will continue still. Many will bear the scars of the 
Iraq war--both physical and mental--for a lifetime.

Just as Fort Riley has recognized that we cannot drop soldiers into a 
war zone without adequate preparation, this Congress must realize that 
we cannot abandon soldiers upon their return to America. We owe 
veterans nothing less than a lifetime of support. Abraham Lincoln 
understood this concept when he charged America ''to care for him who 
shall have borne the battle and for his widow, and his orphan.'' It is 
time that this Congress meet our obligation.

I was proud in January to support a continuing resolution that 
increased VA funding by $3.4 billion. Last week this House passed a 
supplemental bill that provided a further $1.7 billion. These increases 
were meaningful and long-overdue--but our support must not waver now.

The Budget Committee has provided superb leadership toward that end. 
The Committee proposed a fiscally responsible, comprehensive 2008 
budget that includes a $6.6 billion increase for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. Their approach has earned praise from AMVETS, the 
Disabled American Veterans, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the American Legion.

I urge my colleagues to follow the Budget Committee's lead.

No one can doubt that every Member of this esteemed body supports 
America's veterans. The only question is whether we will demonstrate 
our support using the most powerful tool at our disposal: the federal 
budget.



I urge you to turn words of support for veterans into action, to 
transform sentiment into financing. Please vote for full funding of the 
VA.