---
---

# None
## `805c55d06a166cbdf3eb7945acf39300`
`Mr. ACKERMAN — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. ACKERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 
repealing the Department of Defense's misguided, discriminatory ''Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell'' (DADT) policy.

For 16 years, ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' has placed an unthinkable and 
immoral burden on gay and lesbian servicemen and women, who, under 
United States law and unlike their heterosexual counterparts, must hide 
their sexual orientation from the military. If our Nation is truly to 
be the land of the free, home of the brave, we must continue to make 
progress towards equality. Repealing ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' is a 
crucial step forward.

Mr. Speaker, I was contacted by a gay soldier from Long Island who 
despite serving his country for more than 20 years, despite 
volunteering to serve in a combat zone to defend America's principles 
of freedom from tyranny and from persecution, and despite receiving two 
Bronze Stars for meritorious service to his country, is required by law 
to lie about who he is or face being discharged from the military. In 
his letter, he pleads for a repeal of ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell.'' In 
reality, he is asking nothing more than to be treated exactly the same 
as other servicemen and women.

It is reprehensible that his Nation responds to his service by 
telling him he needs to ''shut up'' about who he is. Upon disclosing 
his sexual orientation, would his past 20 years of service be worth 
less? Would he suddenly be of no value to the military? Is he suddenly 
no longer a war hero? Is his 20 plus years of service suddenly an 
embarrassment? The answer of course, is absolutely not. Yet, our 
Nation's policy tells this soldier he's not desirable as is.

Mr. Speaker, it's a contradiction in the first degree. Our military, 
including this soldier who contacted me, puts their lives on the line 
to defend American principles of life, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness. Yet, those who defend these principles are themselves 
discriminated against because of who they are.

This is also a self-defeating policy. Since ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' 
was implemented in 1994, more than 13,000 gay and lesbian service 
members have been discharged for no other reason than their sexual 
orientation. As the United States has fought wars in Afghanistan and in 
Iraq, hundreds of mission-critical troops, including crucial Arabic, 
Farsi, and other linguists, have been discharged because the Department 
of Defense believed they were gay. At the same time, the military has 
increasingly granted moral waivers to recruits with criminal 
backgrounds.

Mr. Speaker, the case is clear. There is no sound argument for 
maintaining this discriminatory policy. For the thousands of gay 
servicemen and women who so bravely serve our country every day but who 
live in constant fear of being discovered for who they are, for the 
principles of freedom and equality upon which the United States of 
America was founded, and in the interest of righting a wrong that has 
persisted for far too long, I rise in strong support of the bill before 
us and urge my colleagues to join me in honoring all American 
servicemen and women, regardless of their sexual orientation.