# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `80619b0c950dda1b7f4161d74d2112fb`
`Mr. WARNER — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, if the Senator will yield, I want to 
commend the Senator for the leadership he has taken in this area. I had 
the opportunity to work with the Senator. As a matter of fact, one of 
the amendments we jointly worked on eventually became law in the 
appropriations cycle that required Ambassador Crocker to come before 
the Senate, General Petraeus to come before the Senate, and the 
President to make a report to the Nation.

We also created the Jones Commission. All of these matters had the 
Senator's support all along, and I wish to


say that the Senator has been absolutely tireless in his efforts to try 
to help the Senate do the necessary oversight on this situation.

While we have not, in this current legislation, specific things--the 
Senator from Michigan brought up an amendment which failed. It should 
not be looked at as a failure. The Senate is doing oversight. The 
Senate will continue every single day to give oversight on this 
situation. But we also have to be respectful to the Constitution, which 
delegates very carefully the responsibilities of the legislative 
branch, i.e. the Senate and the House of Representatives, and that of 
the President in his role as Commander in Chief, where specifically it 
is entrusted to the President to decide the strategy and the mission, 
and the Senate and the House are primarily responsible for the 
authorization and appropriation of funds.

But it does not relieve in any way the obligation of this body to 
watch what is taking place in Iraq, to give our best thought and 
counsel to the executive branch--namely, the President--to try to bring 
about an achievement of the basic goals of a free and sovereign and 
stable Iraq, which hopefully someday can join the other nations of the 
world, particularly as it relates to the ongoing war with those who are 
termed ''terrorists,'' for lack of a better term, who are challenging 
our respective countries, whether it is the United States or other 
nations in the world.

So I just wanted to thank the Senator for his leadership. Senator 
Salazar has done a marvelous job.