---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2446, AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND  SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `8065c8b937f2fab310f0654a5ef69a5d`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Massachusetts for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, in April, I had the opportunity to join five of my 
colleagues on a delegation trip to Afghanistan. And our six-member 
delegation, three Democrats and three Republicans, spent 2 days in 
Iraq, 2 days in Afghanistan. And we had an opportunity to speak with 
American, Iraqi, Afghani soldiers; military leaders; security forces; 
government leaders; and civil servants. And at every turn in our trip, 
we encountered these extraordinary men and women from our country that 
are doing incredible work in very dangerous and trying circumstances. 
And I had the opportunity to meet troops from my State as my colleagues 
met troops from their States, and all of us were incredibly proud at 
the selflessness of these troops who are performing the missions that 
we have assigned to them.

But the circumstances in each country and each war are very 
different. Iraq is in a full-blown civil war. The British, our last 
remaining significant ally in Iraq, will soon withdraw, and American 
forces are now viewed as occupiers. The situation is much different in 
Afghanistan. And I came away, as did my colleagues, with the clear 
impression that there is will on the part of Afghani leaders to step up 
and to take control of their future.

In Afghanistan, we have 37 allied nations joining with us to help the 
Afghanis drive out the Taliban and to restore order and to create a 
future for that country.

In fact, the differences between these two situations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan was best summed up by three soldiers I spoke to who had 
completed full tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. And I asked, What is the 
difference in your experience? And the soldiers said, In Iraq it seems 
as though everyone is interested in fighting each other and us. In 
Afghanistan everyone is interested in fighting for their future.

What this legislation recognizes is that we have partners, 37 other 
nations, working with us in Afghanistan, and we have a partner, the 
government and people of Afghanistan, in our effort to restore order 
and to create a future for that country.



H.R. 2446, the Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act, 
reinforces the United States' long-term commitment to support 
Afghanistan in its efforts to confront its challenges and to complete 
its transformation into a secure and prosperous future.

This bill enhances the narcotics operations. More importantly, it 
provides incentives to encourage greater participation from our NATO 
allies in the International Security and Assistance Force. If we have 
learned anything, it is that we have got to work together and not 
alone.