# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL GREGG BLANCHARD
## `806b70c30d41a5fd95dd1372b1ea9c59`
`Mr. THUNE â€” 24 September 2008`

---

 Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today I rise to pay tribute to COL 
Gregg Blanchard, U.S. Army, on the occasion of his retirement after 
over 21 years of dedicated service. He is a true patriot and 
exceptional military leader--a living example of what is good about 
America.

Colonel Blanchard and his wife, Barb, both hail from Rapid City, SD. 
''Doc,'' as he is known to his friends, is a proud graduate of Rapid 
City Central High School and the University of South Dakota. Barb 
graduated from Rapid City Stevens High School, and from National 
College in Rapid City.

Colonel Blanchard served successfully in every echelon of the Army, 
from the platoon to the theater army. He commanded troops at the 
company and battalion level and served a combat tour in Iraq as the 
Deputy G4, V Corps. As a logistics officer, Colonel Blanchard's entire 
career has been devoted to the care and support of his fellow soldiers 
and their families. Over 9 of his 21 years were served overseas, where 
he tirelessly focused on supporting our warriors and their families.

He commanded the 701st Main Support Battalion of the famous 1st 
Infantry Division--the Big Red One. In this assignment, he supervised 
the training and welfare of over 1,100 soldiers and their families. His 
superb leadership and organizational ability were critical to the 
smooth redeployment of the division from Germany to the United States 
during the drawdown of forces in Europe. Colonel Blanchard's superb 
leadership and positive attitude were contagious and inspired everyone 
around him to give their best effort.

As the Deputy G4, V Corps and Deputy C-4, Multi-National Corps--Iraq, 
Colonel Blanchard supervised logistical support to all forces operating 
in the Iraq Theater of Operations. His superior skills as a leader, 
planner and communicator led to several notable assignments in the 
Pentagon with tours on the Army Staff, the Office of the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense.

The Army recognized the unique abilities of Colonel Blanchard and 
selected him as one of four Active Army officers to serve as a 
Congressional Fellow in 2003. In that capacity he served this body for 
a year in the office of Senator Mark Dayton from Minnesota. This 
assignment led to other legislative liaison assignments in the Army and 
the Joint Staff.

When the first U.S. congressional delegation to Libya in 35 years 
occurred, then-Lieutenant Colonel Blanchard was selected to escort and 
coordinate the logistical challenges and country schedules for the 
trip. He was also instrumental in improving the Army's process for 
congressional notification of our fallen soldiers, and for improving 
the Army's responsiveness to the tens of thousands of inquiries it 
receives annually from Members of Congress.

In his current assignment as the Deputy Legislative Assistant to the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Colonel Blanchard provides 
critical assistance to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and to 
the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. His advice and counsel is 
regularly sought by senior defense leaders in the Army, the Joint 
Community and by Members of Congress and their staffs.

For over 21 years, Colonel Blanchard served this great country from 
locations all across the world. Whether mentoring and training young 
troops as a commander, providing for soldiers in combat, developing and 
affecting policy in the Pentagon, or working with Congress, he served 
with honor and distinction. He will indeed be remembered as an 
exceptional officer, a true patriot, a courageous warrior and a 
dedicated leader with the highest integrity and compassion for all who 
had the distinct honor of serving with him.

Barb and their children, Brittany and Alex, have demonstrated 
unwavering support throughout Colonel Blanchard's distinguished career. 
This Nation is also grateful for their sacrifices that enabled Colonel 
Blanchard to serve with such distinction. Wherever he served, COL Gregg 
Blanchard set the highest standards of service, professionalism and 
leadership.
