---
---

# HEALTH CARE
## `806d94fd767ae1b32a8956a707c3ae75`
`Ms. CASTOR — 7 February 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. We talked earlier about how the White House budget 
proposal we received this week is a fairy tale, but its impact on our 
veterans really is a nightmare. The State of Florida where I am from, 
we have the second highest number of veterans in the country, and in my 
district, I have the busiest VA center in the country, the James Haley 
Center, which saw over 1.5 million vets last year. That is more than 
the population of the State of Kansas we saw at the Haley Center in 
Tampa.

The Haley Center is specialized for current Iraq war vets injured, 
coming back, that are suffering the IED blasts, spinal cord injuries, 
brain injuries. And in Florida, out of all the VA medical centers, 
Haley, the busiest, we have


gone now over the past 10 years from 2 million visits to over 5 million 
visits. And how can we say this is a reflection of values? How can we 
say we are going to step back from that responsibility? How can the 
White House send us a budget that steps back, at a time where they are 
escalating the war in Iraq, they are going to deescalate the commitment 
to our veterans? I don't think so.

In this Democratic Congress, we are going to take a new direction. 
There is new leadership in Washington, DC. And I am proud to be joined 
by some of the new Members, my colleagues, tonight, and also join with 
the efforts of leaders like my colleague from New Jersey. And I yield 
back.