---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8071de40632abf407529c9304852f47b`
`Mr. VITTER — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. VITTER. Madam President, today I stand to recognize Army SGT Eric 
Moser, the son of Ken and Karen Moser of Lake Charles, LA, and to 
commend his courage and service to our Nation and his brothers in arms.

On May 22, 2008, Sergeant Moser was awarded the Distinguished Service 
Cross, the U.S. Army's second highest military decoration, making him 
one of only nine soldiers to have received this decoration since 
September 11, 2001.

Sergeant Moser, I know how proud your parents are of you, and all of 
Louisiana shares in their pride. Your actions truly exemplify 
patriotism, service to country, and spirit of the Army's famous 82nd 
Airborne Division, a unit that has distinguished itself on countless 
occasions from the beaches of Normandy, the jungles of Vietnam, to the 
sands of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan.

On August 26, 2007, while serving with the 82nd's Charlie Company, 
Sergeant Moser was attached to a sniper team that also included SGT 
Josh Morley of North Carolina, SP Tracy Willis of Texas, and SP Chris 
Corriveau from Maine.

The team was tasked with securing a defensive perimeter around a 
block in Samarra, Iraq, while members of Charlie Company's 3rd Platoon 
conducted search operations on a location that was suspected of being 
used to manufacture improvised explosive devices.

Soon after their arrival on their positions, Sergeant Moser and his 
team found themselves under attack, their presence having been alerted 
to by an al-Qaida informant. Pinned down from fire from multiple 
terrorists, Sergeants Moser and Morley held their positions and 
returned fire until Sergeant Morley was killed while crossing a 
building rooftop in search of the team's radio.

Sergeant Moser and the remaining team members fought off the 
insurgents who were attempting to make off with Sergeant Morley's body. 
Despite struggling with a weapon that repeatedly jammed, Sergeant Moser 
was able to return fire and protect Sergeant Morley's body during a 
firefight that ultimately claimed the life of a second team member, SP 
Tracy Willis.

The two remaining members of the sniper team, Sergeant Moser and 
Specialist Corriveau, continued to fight off the terrorists and were 
able to protect the bodies of their fallen comrades. As they 
established contact with another Airborne outpost, the insurgents fell 
back and began to retrieve their dead.

Sergeant Moser and Specialist Corriveau then directed a GPS-guided 
bomb to the position where the surviving insurgents were hiding. It was 
later confirmed that more than 15 of an established 40 al-Qaida 
terrorists were killed during the fight.

We honor Sergeant Morley and Specialist Willis for their ultimate 
sacrifice, and we pay tribute to their families. SGT Josh Morley is 
survived by his wife, his family, and a daughter whom he never had the 
chance to meet. And SP Tracy Willis leaves behind a loving family of 
his own.

We also honor SP Chris Corriveau for his heroism. He was also awarded 
the Distinguished Service Cross for his gallantry on August 26, 2007. 
His actions also exemplify that of a hero and a paratrooper.

In the face of death and without regard to his personal safety, 
Sergeant Moser brought great distinction on himself, the U.S. Army, and 
the 82nd Airborne Division. I am sure he would be hesitant to 
acknowledge himself as a hero, and he does not need to do so. His 
actions distinguished him as such when on a rooftop in Iraq, he risked 
his own life to ensure that no man was left behind.

Sergeant Moser, thank you for your service and heroism and God bless 
you and your entire family.
