# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2009
## `8084a7d5ebef8fd2b9a58c695511f59e`
`Mr. BOND — 3 November 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Madam President, yesterday Afghanistan's Independent 
Election Committee announced that a runoff election is no longer 
necessary, which means Afghan President Hamid Karzai has secured a 
second term.

Whatever your feelings about President Karzai, this peaceful 
resolution of Afghanistan's electoral mess should have brought a sigh 
of relief for anyone waiting with bated breath for our own 
administration's decision on whether to support General McChrystal's 
troop request, whether to support the President's plan for Afghanistan.

After all, according to the White House, President Obama's decision 
was ''weeks away'' because he was waiting to announce a decision until 
after the Afghan election was decided. But yesterday I read in the New 
York Times that the White House Press Secretary said the President's 
announcement was, once again, ''weeks away.'' This is beginning to 
sound a little bit like Charlie Brown and the football, only the game 
the White House is playing has deadly consequences.

While the White House continues to dither and delay in Washington, 
American heroes and our Afghan allies are dying on the battlefield.

Last month was the bloodiest month in Afghanistan since the war 
started. As the people of Afghanistan see America's will waiver in 
Washington, the terrorists gain strength.

General McChrystal said last July we have only about 12 months to get 
in the troops necessary to reverse the momentum the Taliban has gained 
because their forces overwhelm the number of ISAF and trained Afghan 
troops we have on the field.

It is going to take some time, once a decision is made, to get the 
troops we need there to support General McChrystal's implementation of 
the President's plan.

So I call on President Obama to end this deadly indecision. Mr. 
President, please recommit to the very strategy you announced in March. 
Recommit to the ''war of necessity,'' as you so eloquently--and 
rightly--called by name the conflict our troops are engaged in, in the 
villages and mountains of Afghanistan.

In addition to calling on the President to end the delay, I call on 
the pundits here in Washington to abandon their excuses to justify 
further delay. We have heard excuse after excuse, constant attempts to 
justify delay by some in the media and some on the far left. The latest 
red herring was the Afghan elections. Now that the election is 
resolved, the next excuse is corruption in Kabul.

Don't get me wrong. I agree that corruption must be tackled. In fact, 
I outlined the need to take on corruption in the ''Roadmap to Success'' 
for the region that I sent to then President-elect Obama, the Defense 
Department and the intelligence agencies and his national security team 
last November. But don't forget this critical truth: ''All politics is 
local,'' and so is security.

Everyone in Washington is all too familiar with that truth, but it is 
undeniable in the mountains and villages in Afghanistan. The Taliban is 
not waiting for a Jeffersonian democracy to flourish in Kabul as they 
continue to kill our troops and attack the people of Afghanistan.

Yes, we must tackle corruption at every level. There are lots of 
other challenges we must take. But security in Afghanistan will not 
come from Kabul. It has to be built village by village, valley by 
valley. The knowledgeable professionals who advise us in public and in 
classified sessions have told me, time and time again, that security 
must come first.

I have spoken on this floor many times about the need for smart 
power. That is military power backed by economic development, better 
governance, the provision of basic services. But that additional 
element--all the other things besides military force--awaits the 
establishment of security so the people we are working with can feel 
secure and not be subject to intimidation by the Taliban.

For too long, the international community has been too fixated on the 
machinations of Kabul and questions about various leaders who have been 
elected by the people of Afghanistan and not focused enough on the 
fights in the villages and the valleys.

I am proud to say our brave American National Guard units in 
provinces in Afghanistan are showing what can be done when you provide 
security, along with the economic development tools to provide a better 
life and a way forward without the Taliban control over their 
communities.

We will only succeed when the people of Afghanistan feel secure from 
the intimidation and violence of the Taliban, when Afghan forces can be 
developed to the point where they can protect the population for good, 
when local governance begins to deliver schools, wells, and fundamental 
institutions for economic development and justice.

These institutions, from national security forces to economic 
development, to the institutions of justice--courts, jails, cops--will 
only stay if Kabul organizes itself to support them. But the progress 
we must commit to now is a necessary precondition. It is imperative in 
the rural areas now and all the regions to establish that security. 
Then it is important for them to work from the bottom up to secure the 
government they want in the capital.

The time for excuses is over. Every day we delay, the enemy grows 
stronger. Our troops and allies, who are beginning to be dispirited by 
our delay, are essentially being told: Wait. We are not sure what you 
are doing is worthwhile. The people of Afghanistan whom we are counting 
on to side with us rather than the Taliban are beginning to wonder: Is 
the United States going to pull out again, like we have done too often 
in the past?

The President and this Congress need to send a signal today to the 
Afghan people that America will not abandon them in this critical fight 
against terrorism. Our allies need to know we will remain by their 
sides to defeat this


enemy together. Our enemies need to know they cannot wait us out, that 
America will be strong.

If we fail to deliver this message and to commit the troops General 
McChrystal has asked for, the dangers are very real. Let there be no 
doubt, from everything we have heard, everything we have learned, if we 
do not send the additional troops, if we try to stand off and use a 
fire-and-fallback policy--that failed in Iraq until we brought in the 
counterinsurgency strategy that our NATO allies tried without success 
in Afghanistan--not only will the Taliban come back in, they will come 
over the mountains, and Taliban rule will be established in 
Afghanistan. With Taliban rule comes their sometimes witting, sometimes 
unwitting allies--al-Qaida--which will use it to establish the same 
kind of base they had in Afghanistan prior to the 9/11 attacks. Failure 
will embolden the enemies of freedom who launched the attacks of 9/11 
from Afghanistan.

I call on President Obama to end this indecision, commit to his own 
strategy--which he announced so powerfully last March and which I was 
proud to support on the floor--and show the American people and our 
allies the same resolve and determination I heard in his words this 
past spring. He said:




 Our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken; you cannot 


 outlast us, and we will defeat you.


It is time we delivered on that promise.













 Czech and Slovak Republics


Madam President, I also have a statement in recognition of the 
tremendous success that has occurred in the Czech Republic and the 
Slovak Republic since 1989. When the Soviet Union dissolved in 1989, 
the people of Czechoslovakia joined together to oust communism and 
adopt democracy.

We have seen tremendous success in the past 20 years. Remarkable 
changes have taken place, as both the Czech Republic and the Slovak 
Republic have sought and achieved membership in NATO and moved to the 
kind of progress and peace we expected for them.

In 1989 the former Soviet Union was in the final throes of a slow 
demise which concluded in 1991. Many of the former Soviet republics 
were in a state of uncertainty as the situation deteriorated further.

In the fall and winter of 1989, the people of Czechoslovakia joined 
many other recently separated republics and chose to oust communism and 
adopt democracy through the Velvet Revolution. Twenty years ago the 
country then known as Czechoslovakia freed itself of communist control, 
instituted democratic elections, and set out to adapt its command 
economy to the free market.

The remarkable swiftness which ushered out the former government 
while maintaining relative order and peace was inspiring to the world 
as we watched apprehensively the events unfolding. Czechoslovakia's 
move away from communism and toward greater political independence, led 
to the eventual separation of the country into the current Czech 
Republic and Slovak Republic.

During the past 20 years, remarkable change has taken place as both 
the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic have sought and achieved 
membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO. The Czech 
Republic was accepted as a member of NATO in 1999, as was the Slovak 
Republic in 2004. Both nations are now formal members of both NATO and 
the United Nations, and their military units now contribute to 
important missions throughout the globe and continue to play a 
strategic role in the region.

Furthermore, the Czech Republic has a local tie near to my heart 
associated with its NATO admission. The documents of admission were 
signed at the Presidential library of Missouri's own President Truman 
in Independence, MO. As we work to pursue our mutual interests, I wish 
both the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic continued success and 
prosperity as we work toward mutual goals.

Madam President, I yield the floor.
