---
---

# SAVING ENERGY THROUGH PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 2008
## `808c926ef5cbc84c452c3f5486f4082e`
`Mr. MICA — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. MICA. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Chairman, I want to thank our chair of the Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee, my Democrat counterpart, Mr. Oberstar, for 
his work on this piece of legislation that does deal with some of the 
issues that we are facing right now and follows some of the discussions 
that we have had on the floor relating to energy and energy 
conservation.

The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has a very small 
piece of the puzzle, but it is nonetheless an important piece and we 
have tried to exercise our jurisdictional responsibility in coming 
forth with this, again, small piece of the puzzle.

This bill does provide for expansion of some of the transit grants 
around the country, and I think that there are some beneficial 
provisions for those in rural areas, suburban areas, and for much of 
the public that relies on public transportation.

This bill further does allow sort of an unprecedented ability to use 
some of the money traditionally used for projects to assist some of the 
local transit authorities that are suffering now with high fuel costs. 
Just like the average family is suffering with high fuel costs, transit 
agencies have also experienced the same problem. They are cutting back 
on services, sometimes when people really need to have an option and 
don't have that option, by cutting out routes, and that has been 
announced even in my area. So I think we are doing a responsible thing.

This is a 2-year authorization. It is an expansion of the 
authorization of $1.7 billion that does give some of the folks on my 
side some hiccups, but it is authorization, it is not appropriation and 
each Member is going to have to judge their support or opposition based 
on the final product. But I have joined Chairman Oberstar in support of 
this authorizing bill. I think again it fills our small piece of the 
puzzle.

I did want to take just a minute or two, I didn't get a chance to 
speak on the rule or on the energy legislation that was before the 
House earlier, and there was quite a bit of banter. And some people 
were bashing the President and this administration for not having a 
plan. In fact, someone said he didn't recall a plan, which is kind of 
funny.

I am very fortunate to have outstanding staff, but this summer I also 
have some outstanding interns. They come from all over the country to 
Congress, and I have gotten some from my district and elsewhere. So you 
have a little more staff to do research rather than just keep on the 
track that we are on here every day. I said wasn't there a Bush plan? 
And all be darned, there was a Bush energy plan. So I had a little 
research done on that.

Lo and behold, very shortly into his term, it was May 17, 2001, the 
President of the United States, George Bush, just a few months into 
office, he set two major priorities, one being education. You remember 
on 9/11 he was in a Florida classroom talking about his plan to improve 
education. But even before that, in May as one of his first priorities, 
he announced his plan. He announced his plan actually in the home State 
of the chairman, in St. Paul, Minnesota. On that day when he announced 
it he said, ''If we fail to act, our country will become more reliant 
on foreign crude oil, putting our national energy security into the 
hands of foreign nations, some of whom do not share our interests.''

On that same day when he announced his plan, he said regarding part 
of his plan, ''We will underwrite research and development into energy-
saving technology. It'll require manufacturers to build more energy-
efficient appliances. We will review and remove obstacles that prevent 
business from investing in energy-efficient technologies.''

Furthermore, President Bush said, ''The second part of our energy 
plan will be to expand and diversify our Nation's energy supplies. 
America today imports,'' and now this is May of 2001, ''America today 
imports 52 percent of all of our oil. If we don't take action, those 
imports will only grow. As long as cars and trucks run on gasoline, we 
will need oil, and we should produce more of it at home.''

The President called for burning coal more cleanly, expanding nuclear 
power, and drilling for new oil in new places, that included the Arctic 
area in Alaska. The President said that is banned now, but the 
President said it can be done safely.

Listen to this one. This is the President in St. Paul. ''ANWR can 
produce 600,000 barrels of oil a day for the next 40 years. What 
difference does 600,000 barrels a day make? Well, that happens to be 
exactly the amount we import from Saddam Hussein's Iraq. We're not just 
short of oil; we're short of the refineries that turn oil into fuel. So 
while the rest of our economy is functioning at 82 percent of capacity, 
our refineries are gasping at 96 percent of capacity.''

That was part of the President's plan, and how prophetic could you 
be. This was before 9/11. This was in May of 2001, announcing his plan.

I can't take up all of the time, but I have Mr. Gephardt's response: 
Congress will take action to stop them. Mr. Kerry vowed to filibuster, 
and the Sierra Club is already running ads against it. Those were some 
of the responses.

It is interesting how quickly we forget that there have been plans, 
and those plans could have made a big difference.

Here today we are trying in a bipartisan fashion to make a small 
difference to give some of our Federal employees outside the Capital 
Beltway the opportunity to have the same transit advantages and 
payments that we give within the Beltway to Federal employees outside, 
expand some of the grants for transit, and also help some of those 
transit operations that are suffering like the American family is with 
cutbacks because of high fuel costs.

I reserve the balance of my time.