---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `808d385e8cc8943891a56ff0377189fa`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, in 2001 I joined the House in voting for the 
Authorization for Use of Military Force. In the past 8/1/2/ years, it 
has become clear that the Authorization for Use of Military Force is 
being interpreted as carte blanche for circumventing Congress' role as 
a coequal branch of government.

My legislation invokes the War Powers Resolution of 1973. If enacted, 
it would require the President to withdraw U.S. Armed Forces from 
Afghanistan by December 31, 2010.

The debate today will be the first opportunity we have had to revisit 
the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force, which the House 
supported following the worst terrorist attack in our country's 
history. Regardless of your support or opposition to the war in 
Afghanistan, this is going to be the first opportunity to evaluate 
critically where the Authorization for Use of Military Force has taken 
us in the last 8/1/2/ years.

This 2001 resolution allowed military action ''to prevent any future 
acts of international terrorism against the United States.'' Those of 
us who support the withdrawal from Afghanistan may or may not agree on 
a timeline for troop withdrawal, but I think we agree that this debate 
is timely.

The rest of the world is beginning to see the folly of trying to 
occupy Afghanistan: The Dutch Government recently came to a halt over 
the commitment of more troops from their country. In Britain public 
outcry over the war is growing. A recent BBC poll indicated that 63 
percent of the British public is demanding that their troops come home 
by Christmas. In Germany opposition to the war has risen to 69 percent. 
Russia has lost billions of dollars in the 9 years it spent attempting 
to control Afghanistan.

Our supposed nation-building in Afghanistan has come at the 
destruction of our own. The military escalation cements the path of the 
United States down the road of previous occupiers that earned 
Afghanistan its nickname as the ''graveyard of empires.''



One year ago last month, a report by the Carnegie Endowment concluded 
''the only meaningful way to halt the insurgency's momentum is to start 
withdrawing troops. The presence of foreign troops is the most 
important element driving the resurgence of the Taliban.''

So with this debate today, Mr. Speaker, we will have a chance for the 
first time to reflect on our responsibility for troop casualties that 
are now reaching 1,000; to look at our responsibility for the costs of 
the war, which approaches $250 billion; our responsibility for the 
civilian casualties and the human costs of the war; our responsibility 
for challenging the corruption that takes place in Afghanistan; our 
responsibility for having a real understanding of the role of the 
pipeline in this war; our responsibility for debating the role of 
counterinsurgency strategies, as opposed to counterterrorism; our 
responsibility for being able to make a case for the logistics of 
withdrawal.

After 8/1/2/ years, it is time that we have this debate.

I reserve the balance of my time.