---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `80a0cb9c8c9a488dfa6685c2aa572616`
`Mr. McCAIN — 15 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for his words 
concerning the parliamentary situation we are in. Of course, I am very 
appreciative of his words about the long service we have shared 
together, both in the other body and in the Senate. Since I have 
returned from the campaign trail, I have appreciated his kind words 
about my service to the country. I must say, while the majority leader 
is still on the floor, I might point out that they are dramatically 
different from the comments he made about me during the campaign--not 
just our political differences but my qualifications to serve and other 
statements about my character. All those things are said in political 
campaigns, but I am certainly glad to see sort of a significant change 
in his comments concerning me, and I am always very grateful.

Can I also say that the distinguished leader said he couldn't 
understand that I couldn't understand. Well, the thing I can't 
understand is the fact that the majority leader can, by virtue of being 
majority leader, put legislation at any time before this body. I have 
never been majority leader, and in all candor I never want to be 
majority leader. I think the majority leader in the Senate has a very 
tough job. I appreciate the hard work he does in trying to move 
legislation through the Senate. My former colleague and one-time 
majority leader, Senator Lott, once said that being majority leader of 
the Senate was like herding cats, and I certainly agree with that 
assessment.

So let me say I appreciate the work the majority leader does, but if 
I had been majority leader, I would never have had to do any of those 
amendments. The majority leader sets the agenda for the Senate. All he 
has to do if he wants the hate crimes bill up is to schedule it to be 
taken up and debated and discussed and amended--but in the


regular order of the Senate. Instead, he chooses to put it on the 
Defense authorization bill, a bill that is vital to the future of the 
security of this Nation.

I understand his passion concerning hate crimes. I have heard 
speakers come to the Senate floor all day, and they, in very graphic 
and moving terms, described events, as I am sure the next speaker 
will--about the terrible crimes committed in this country by some of 
the worst of the worst people who have ever inhabited this country.

But the question remains: Why should a bill of this importance--the 
hate crimes legislation--not have been, at the majority leader's 
direction, moved through the Judiciary Committee, reported out, and 
reported to the floor of the Senate? We have been in session since 
January. I am sure the Judiciary Committee has a lot to do. This has 
been described by proponents, as they come to the floor, as one of the 
most important issues of our time. If it is, why not move it through 
the Judiciary Committee, move it to the floor, and allow us to amend, 
debate, and discuss the issue? Instead, it is put, as an amendment, on 
the Defense authorization bill.

That is not right, Mr. President. The fact is, the amendment the 
majority leader just, very rightfully, extolled, the Levin-McCain 
amendment--and I appreciate his strong remarks about the importance of 
it--is the one he wanted withdrawn. The reason we are not debating it 
now is because the majority leader told the chairman of the committee 
to withdraw the amendment.

I appreciate his passionate advocacy of this issue. I also want to 
reemphasize this isn't just about $1.75 billion. This amendment is 
about whether we are going to change, fundamentally, the way we do 
business.

If the opponents of the amendment succeed, and we fund additional F-
22 aircraft, which as the majority leader pointed out has never flown 
in Iraq or Afghanistan, that signal to the military industrial complex, 
which President Eisenhower warned us about is business as usual in our 
Nation's Capitol.

So this is an amendment that has transcendent importance. The 
President has guaranteed a veto. The Secretary of Defense came out and 
staked his reputation on succeeding here and eliminating, bringing to 
an end the F-22 production line and moving forward with the F-35 
production line.

A lot of my friends ought to understand this is not just about 
cutting or eliminating or ending production of the F-22. It is also 
about the F-35 aircraft. If I had been majority leader, I would have--
when he described those amendments I put on bills that were before the 
Senate, it was because I could not get them up in any other way.

Let me say this: Hate crimes legislation deserves the attention of 
the Senate in the normal legislative process with amendments, debate, 
and discussion. If it is so important, and speaker after speaker, 
including the majority leader, came to the Senate floor talking about 
how important and vital it is and all of the terrible things that have 
happened as a result of, in their view, not having this bill--although 
that is not in agreement with the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. But 
the fact is, then you would think we would want to take it up in the 
regular fashion and debate it, and that we would want to improve it and 
make it more effective through the amending process. But, no, we are 
not going to do that. We are going to take down the pending amendment 
that is probably one of the most significant amendments we have had in 
recent history of the Senate--at least as far as defense is concerned--
and replace it with a piece of legislation that is complex, certainly 
controversial, and certainly deserves the full attention of the Senate.

I proposed earlier a unanimous-consent request, which was rejected by 
the majority, that we move back to the F-22 amendment, that we dispose 
of this legislation, and then that we move to the hate crimes bill, the 
Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act, even bypassing the 
Judiciary Committee, which is not a normal thing to do given the 
complexity of the issue.

I am deeply moved by the stories the majority leader told, and both 
Senators from California came to the floor, and many others have given 
very graphic and dramatic and compelling stories recounting terrible 
things that have happened to our citizens--horrible, awful, horrifying 
things. I understand that and my sympathies and thoughts and prayers go 
out to their families. We must do everything in our power to make sure 
these kinds of horrendous acts are never repeated.

Let me point out another thing, if I could. There are also men and 
women in the military who are in harm's way now and who have been 
gravely wounded. The sooner we enact this legislation, we will make 
preparation and be able to better care for them.

Mr. President, I don't usually tell these anecdotes. I heard a lot 
today, and I sympathize with them. Before the majority leader took the 
floor, I was outside the Senate Chamber. There was a young man there 
who said he wanted to meet me--a young marine in a wheelchair, badly 
wounded. He was there with his family. He was escorted by Congressman 
Kennedy. I was gratified and moved that he wanted to meet me.

Do you know what. That made me want to come back here and pass this 
legislation as quickly as possible because this legislation, No. 1, 
provides fair compensation and first-rate health care and addresses the 
needs of the injured and improves the quality of life of the men and 
women of the All-Volunteer Force--Active Duty, National Guard, Reserve, 
and their families. That is the No. 1 priority of this legislation.

Instead of moving this legislation as quickly as possible through the 
Senate, we have now withdrawn the amendment and moved on to a piece of 
legislation that has nothing to do with the purpose and our obligation 
to the men and women serving this country.

I understand what numbers are, and I understand what the outcome of 
elections is. I understand there is a majority on the other side of the 
aisle. But what is being done by withdrawing an amendment that has 
transcendent importance and putting another totally unrelated piece of 
legislation in--it may set a dangerous precedent for this body.

This is not a one-shot deal; this the hate crimes bill. This is not 
an amendment to say you can carry a gun in a national park. This is not 
a single specific issue bill--hate crimes. We are talking about a very 
large, encompassing piece of legislation that, by any rational 
observation, demands to be considered through the proper committee and 
on the floor through the proper process.

We are now holding up the progress of legislation that is important 
to the future security of this country and the men and women who serve 
it, to give them the resources, training, technology, equipment, force 
protections, and authorities they need to succeed in combat and 
stability operations.

I understand and appreciate the passion of the advocates of hate 
crime legislation. They have made it very clear and told compelling 
stories on the Senate floor. I believe we must take it up and enact it 
as immediately as possible. What we should be doing is taking up the 
hate crimes bill in the Senate for full debate and discussion as soon 
as we finish the Defense authorization bill. There is no connection 
between the Defense authorization bill and hate crimes. It is a complex 
and detailed--26 pages, as I recall--piece of legislation.

Again, I appreciate the kind comments of the majority leader, who 
came to the floor and said he couldn't understand certain things I have 
done. I hope the majority leader understands better now. If he doesn't, 
I will be glad to come to the floor again and point out that what we 
are doing is wrong. It is wrong for us to get off the legislation that 
provides for the defense and security of this Nation. It is wrong to 
take up a piece of legislation that should go through the appropriate 
committee.

This is what we teach kids in school in Civics 101--that a bill is 
proposed and goes through the proper committee, is reported out, and 
then it comes to the floor of the Senate for debate and amendment. 
Instead, we are violating the fundamental rules of procedure of the 
Senate.

As we continue and vote at 2 a.m.--or whatever it is that we are 
going to do--


all we will have done is delay the responsibility we have, which is to 
provide for the security of this Nation.

I yield the floor.