---
---

# None
## `80a5f9e370cfe35a1bbb443e5aa4f44c`
`Mr. ROSS — 23 July 2008`

---


Mr. ROSS. Madam Speaker, I take this opportunity today to honor 
Lieutenant Colonel Joselyn LLoyd Bell, Jr., Congressional Liaison 
Officer, Army House Liaison Division, Office of the Chief of 
Legislative Liaison, who will retire September 30, 2008. I wish to 
congratulate Lieutenant Colonel Bell upon his retirement after twenty 
years of distinguished military service to our Nation.

I came to know Lieutenant Colonel Bell over the last year while he 
served as an Army legislative liaison officer to the U.S. House of 
Representatives. A steadfast dedication to Soldiers, their families, 
the Army, and our Nation has been the hallmark of his remarkable 
military career during which he has distinguished himself as both a 
soldier and leader.

Colonel Bell's assignment to the Army's House Liaison Office was the 
culmination of an outstanding military career. Prior to assuming this 
position, Colonel Bell served as a Defense Collection Manager at the 
National Military Command Center in the Pentagon, and later at the 
Defense Intelligence Analysis Center in Washington, DC, where he worked 
within the Intelligence Community to ensure intelligence assets were 
properly postured to answer the Nation's most demanding and urgent 
needs.

A military intelligence officer, Lieutenant Colonel Bell received his 
commission through the Army ROTC program at the University of Central 
Arkansas. A series of command and staff positions followed. His first 
assignment was as a Surveillance Platoon leader and later Company 
Executive Officer in the 109th Military Intelligence Battalion of the 
9th Infantry Division (Motorized) at Fort Lewis, Washington. He went to 
war in August 1991, after Iraq invaded Kuwait, serving as a Platoon 
Leader and Interrogater in the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment during 
Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm.

Following the Persian Gulf War, Colonel Bell held several military 
intelligence assignments in positions of increasing responsibility. In 
2001, Colonel Bell was assigned to the 3rd Infantry Division, Fort 
Stewart, Georgia, where, following the terrorist attacks of 9/11, he 
participated in the development of combat plans and orders for 
Operation Enduring/Iraqi Freedom.

In 2003, he went to war again as the Chief of the 3rd Infantry 
Division's Analysis and Control Element directing intelligence 
operations and producing intelligence in support of the invasion that 
destroyed the Iraqi Armed Forces and removed the Iraqi Regime.

After his tour of combat, he returned to Fort Stewart as the 
Executive Officer of the 103rd Military Intelligence Battalion, quickly 
resetting the Battalion for a second deployment to Iraq.

Lieutenant Colonel Bell holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology 
from the University of Central Arkansas and a Master of Science degree 
in Strategic Intelligence from the National Defense Intelligence 
College.

His outstanding service has been recognized with numerous awards 
including the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Defense Meritorious Service 
Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Joint 
Services Achievement Medal, and Army Achievement Medal. He proudly 
wears the Parachutist and Air Assault Badges.

Lieutenant Colonel Bell's selfless service, dedication to duty, 
leadership, and loyalty represent the highest traditions of military 
service. He is a true soldier and scholar.

I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking Lieutenant Colonel Joselyn 
LLoyd Bell, Jr. for his service to our Army and our Nation. I would 
also like to extend my thanks and appreciation to his wife, Amy, and 
five children--Shelby, Jordan, Chalci, Tanner and Sydnee--for their 
many sacrifices and for their service to the Nation alongside their 
Soldier. We have all benefited from the service of such a man and such 
a family. I wish him and his family all the best in a well deserved 
retirement.
