---
---

# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2008
## `80ad16438a6d812afe1bcbe84a4a7e88`
`Mr. FILNER — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this Veterans Compensation Cost-of-
Living Adjustment Act of 2008, and I want to especially thank 
Congressman Ciro Rodriguez of Texas for his sponsorship of the House 
bill, which was H.R. 5826.

I am pleased that we are here today working with the Senate to get 
the bill passed. After passage here today, the bill goes directly to 
the White House for the President's signature, and this will ensure 
that our veterans will not be delayed in getting their cost-of-living 
adjustment.

Since 1976, Congress has passed a measure to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to increase the rates of basic compensation for 
disabled veterans and the rates of dependency and indemnity 
compensation, referred to as DIC, to their survivors and dependents, 
along with other benefits, in order to keep pace with the rising cost 
of living.

This disability COLA would become effective on December 1 of this 
year and will be equal to that provided on an annual basis to Social 
Security recipients. It will benefit over 3 million disabled veterans 
from the World War I era through the current conflicts in Iraq and 
Afghanistan that VA estimates will be receiving this compensation in FY 
09. It will also help over 300,000 of their survivors during the same 
period.

Many of the 3.5 million recipients of these benefits depend upon 
these tax-free payments not only to provide for their own basic needs, 
but those of their spouses and their children and often parents as 
well. Without an annual COLA, these veterans and their families would 
see the value of their hard-earned benefits slowly erode. We would be 
derelict in our duty as a Congress if we failed to guarantee that those 
who sacrificed so much for this country received benefits and services 
that keep pace with their necessities. The veterans compensation COLA 
is included in the CBO baseline, which means in English that we have 
already paid for this COLA.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.