# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `80b655fc1960cfbf9cbfbcd4ed53bf7c`
`Ms. STABENOW â€” 1 August 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, again, as I said when we first took up 
this bill on Monday evening, I thank the chairman of the committee for 
his passion in bringing us to this point, he and the ranking member, 
Senator Grassley, as well as, of course, Senator Rockefeller with his 
deep commitment, and Senator Hatch as well.

This is a truly bipartisan effort. It is the way we should be 
legislating--coming together. It is a compromise. If I were writing a 
bill by myself, I would add more dollars. There are Members on the 
other side of the aisle who would, in fact, do less. But it is a real 
compromise.

I start out today speaking to the fact that it is a compromise. As a 
member of the Budget Committee, having worked with our chairman and 
members very hard to produce a budget resolution that really does 
reflect a new direction in values and priorities, I worked very hard to 
have us achieve a set-aside of $50 billion for children's health care 
in the budget resolution.

In my heart of hearts, that is where I want to be. I also know that 
any significant expansion is a victory not only for us and for the 
Senate but, most importantly, for children and their families.

I know there will be an effort to expand to the full amount that we 
all wish to do--I think on this side of the aisle, certainly, that is 
where we want to be, and our House colleagues have focused on that as 
well. But I also know that we have a President of the United States who 
shockingly has said that he will veto providing children's health care, 
an expansion of more than 3.3 million children to receive health care, 
children of working parents. The vast majority of them have a mom or a 
dad working one job, two jobs, maybe three jobs trying to make ends 
meet, but who can't afford health insurance, don't qualify for 
Medicaid, but find themselves desperately wanting to make sure their 
children have all that they need, as all of us want as parents.

So we are in a situation where the President of the United States has 
indicated he does not share that view. His budget, in fact, is a budget 
that he proposed to us that would cut children. It would cut children 
who are currently being provided health insurance. It would eliminate 
their health insurance. So on the Finance Committee, we came together 
under very strong bipartisan leadership to find a common ground, the 
middle ground, to be able to increase the number of children who 
receive health insurance and be able to make sure that the 6 million 
children who currently have health insurance are allowed to maintain 
that insurance. We have come to a compromise, and it is a compromise I 
support.


As we face a potential veto from this President, it is critical that 
we have the strongest possible bipartisan vote coming from the Senate. 
If in fact the President follows through and vetoes this, I hope we 
will have enough votes to override that veto in a strong bipartisan 
spirit, the spirit that brought us together originally when the 
Children's Health Insurance Program was originally passed. I urge 
colleagues to support the Finance Committee version and what we have 
done as the best way to get us real health care expansion for children.

Then we will come back, and I will be right back as a member of the 
Budget Committee next year, proposing again that we expand what we are 
doing to make sure that every child who does not have health insurance, 
whose family is working hard but doesn't qualify for Medicaid and 
doesn't have the ability to get private insurance, has the health care 
they need.

We have, I understand, another proposal in front of us, an amendment 
that would take us backward. I understand Senator Lott has offered an 
amendment that has actually been dubbed the CLIP amendment, instead of 
CHIP--Children's Health Insurance Program--CLIP meaning ''Children 
Losing Insurance Program.'' Again, we don't need anything that is going 
to take us backward and have fewer children receiving health insurance.

I want to see us make a major commitment to universal health 
insurance in the greatest country in the world so that everyone has the 
opportunity to be able to receive the health care they need. We should 
be striving to achieve nothing less than that.

The Lott amendment, first, will cut children's health care and take 
us down the road of debating the number of policies individually that 
Members may support, policies I find great concern about, and policies 
that will actually increase the number of uninsured, such as expanding 
the health savings accounts. I urge colleagues to oppose the Lott 
amendment because it takes us in absolutely the wrong direction if we 
want to cover children of low-income working families, and if we want 
to make sure they have what they need to be able to grow up and be 
successful in America.

I have also heard debate about the cost of this legislation, and it 
is important to look at what we are talking about in terms of our 
values and priorities when we debate any piece of legislation. 
Everything we do here is about values and priorities. Right now, every 
month, we are spending $12 billion in Iraq--$12 billion. Regardless of 
how any one individual feels about the war in Iraq, we are spending $12 
billion--not paid for, not a part of the budget--$12 billion a month. 
This bipartisan effort to provide health insurance for more than 3 
million more American children in this country is a cost of $7 billion 
a year--a year; less than what we are spending in 1 month in Iraq. That 
is the right value and the right priority. This is paid for, it is 
responsible and, most importantly, it is the moral thing to do in the 
greatest country in the world, in my opinion. This is not too much to 
invest in the future generation of America.

Yesterday, the chairman and I, a number of us, had an opportunity to 
be with a wonderful woman, Kitty Burgett, from Ohio, who spoke about 
the importance of children's health care in her family. I know it was a 
very moving experience to hear her, and I wanted to share her story. I 
have certainly other stories from Michigan as well, but Kitty came to 
the Nation's capitol to share what the Children's Health Insurance 
Program has meant to her and to her family.

Kitty is a widow whose husband died in 1990, leaving Kitty and her 
two young children without income or insurance. She had Social Security 
survivor's benefits, but even that little income put her and her 
children over the Medicaid eligibility levels, so they didn't qualify 
for low-income health insurance because of their survivor benefits. She 
started working but earned very little. Nonetheless, she purchased 
insurance for her children, because like all of us who are parents, she 
wanted to make sure her children had what they needed. She wanted to 
make sure if they were sick, she was able to care for them with health 
insurance. So she purchased that insurance, but the cost rose every 6 
months, and she finally had to drop it because of the cost. That is an 
uncommon story in America today.

Then along came the Children's Health Insurance Program. Kitty 
immediately enrolled her children. She had a daughter who was 12. Her 
son was a bit younger. Her daughter then began to develop problems, 
and, ultimately, at age 15, was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. She 
was ill. She was hallucinating and she had major mood swings--as those 
of us who are familiar with that disease understand--from depression to 
highs and hallucinations. She couldn't concentrate at school. The 
Children's Health Insurance Program was there so Kitty could get her 
daughter some help. It covered her medications and therapy and 
eventually some new medicines that brought


her illness under control. Her daughter is now 22 years old. She is 
married, she is working, and she is insured. She has an 18-month-old 
daughter named Scarlet. Kitty says the Children's Health Insurance 
Program kept her daughter from a lifetime of institutionalization, and, 
instead, she is a productive, contributing member of society and a 
loving mother to Scarlet.

That is what this is all about, giving people in America--parents, 
the vast majority of whom are working--the ability to provide their 
children with the health care they need so they can go on to be 
successful, thriving, contributing adults in America.

I might also mention I am very pleased that the bill in front of us 
expands the opportunity for what is called mental health parity, so 
that if there is insurance provided, mental health care will be a part 
of that. I congratulate Senator Kerry and Senator Smith, who have led 
that effort to expand us into the area of more adequately covering 
mental health care for children.

This program covers children all over the country. It is interesting 
to note that there are more children uninsured in rural areas than in 
urban areas. This will make sure that, in fact, all of the children who 
qualify under this program are able to receive the health care they 
need. Right now, in Michigan, we have about 60,000 children who are on 
the Children's Health Insurance Program and another 90,000 who are 
eligible--who qualify right now under the program we wrote--but because 
funds aren't available for outreach, funds aren't available to do what 
is necessary, we are not able to provide those families, those 
children, with health insurance. This bill goes a long way to making 
that happen.


I have heard so many stories from Michigan, and it touches your heart 
when you think about the way families are struggling to be able to care 
for their children at the same time costs are going up at every turn. 
We have folks who are working harder than ever: They turn around and 
gas prices go up; they turn around and their insurance premium goes up; 
they turn around again and look at the cost of college, and those costs 
have gone up. We addressed the cost of college last week. Those things 
go right to middle-income families--student loans and Pell grants and 
those programs that allow more people to have the opportunity to go to 
college and send their children to college.

The reality is that on every side families are feeling squeezed--
working harder and costs going up and up and up. Children's health care 
is one way, another critical way, we can help families. I think of 
Chad, a gentleman in Michigan. He and his wife have two young children. 
He works for a small landscaping business with an ''off season'' of 3 
to 4 months in the winter when he is not working. If the couple 
purchased insurance through Chad's employer, it would be an additional 
$300 a month, which for them is not affordable. Through MIChild, which 
is our children's health program, both his sons are able to get the 
inhalers they need for their asthma. How basic, in America, in the 
greatest country in the world, to make sure that children can handle 
their asthma.

I also heard from Pam, who is a full-time preschool teacher and 
mother. Her monthly premiums of $384 a month, or over $4,500 a year, 
take up over one-fifth, or 20 percent, of her pay. Through the MIChild 
program, she was able to get the specialized care she needed for her 
youngest daughter, who suffers from a rare seizure disorder.

I could go on and on, but I will not. We all have stories of families 
who are wanting the best for their children, who want the American 
dream. They do not want to go to bed at night and have to say, please, 
God, don't let the kids get sick, don't let something happen tonight or 
tomorrow because I don't know what I am going to do--we don't have 
health insurance. We are the greatest country in the world and there is 
no excuse for any family finding themselves in that situation.

We have in front of us a bill that is a true bipartisan compromise. 
For me, it is a step in the right direction to universal care, and an 
opportunity to come up with a uniquely American way to provide 
universal health care for everyone in America. I believe health care is 
a right, not a privilege, in the greatest country in the world, and we 
should act like that. This important legislation is part of keeping 
that promise.

We started down the road with covering children whose parents are 
working, who do not qualify for low-income help through Medicaid 
because they are just above that limit, but aren't able to get the 
insurance they need for their families. We have children who qualify 
today but, because the resources aren't there, they are not able to get 
the health insurance they need. This legislation will say that more 
than 3 million more children--families--in this country will not have 
to go to bed at night worrying about whether their kids are going to 
get sick tomorrow.

Finally, I say again that this is about values and priorities. Always 
it is about values and priorities. This is the right thing to do. It is 
the moral thing to do. When we find ourselves in the situation of 
spending $12 billion a month on the war in Iraq, not paid for, and in 
front of us we have the ability with $7 billion a year to cover over 3 
million more children with children's health care, the 6 million who 
have insurance now and over 3 million more in America, responsibly done 
and paid for, this is the right thing to do. It is the moral thing to 
do.

This is a great success story, and I am very hopeful we will see a 
very strong bipartisan vote when this comes before the Senate for a 
vote.

I yield the floor.