# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `80d36c1f942063e5991e6903c2379d75`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, it is an honor to me to be here today 
to speak about the amendment that is currently before the Senate, the 
Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors


Act. This is a critically important amendment for the Senate and a 
critically important action for Congress and for the United States of 
America in finally making sure that we take care of those who have 
served this country so honorably, the men and women who are serving us 
overseas.

Madam President, 4/1/2/ years ago, the President asked Congress to go 
to war in Iraq. I stood on this floor as one of a handful of Senators, 
23 of us who, at that time, said no. I said no because I didn't believe 
we had a clear mission. I didn't believe we should take our eye off the 
ball of the war on terror and the al-Qaida threat that was confronting 
our Nation, and I believed we did not have in place a long-term plan 
for military action in Iraq. I have never regretted that vote.

But when I spoke on the floor opposing the action of the President, I 
said once our troops were sent to war, no matter how we voted on it, it 
was our responsibility to make sure we took care of them when they came 
home. This country has failed to do that.

I had to sit out here on the Senate floor and fight, literally, vote 
after vote to get this Senate to pay attention to the fact that we had 
men and women coming home, waiting in long lines to get their VA 
benefits, who were not able to get an appointment to see a doctor, who 
were unemployed, who were being sent back to the front time and time 
again, whose families were falling through the cracks because of the 
long deployments, and that we had military facilities that were 
incapable of dealing with the thousands of men and women who were 
coming home and who were injured.

Today, finally, we are coming to a point where, through the hard work 
of our VA Committee, Armed Services, and others, we have brought to the 
Senate a bipartisan amendment that I hope passes overwhelmingly this 
afternoon, that begins to address the critical needs which our soldiers 
are facing.

Since this war began 4/1/2/ years ago, I have taken the time to stop 
and talk to our men and women when they have come home. I have seen the 
tears in their eyes as they wait on medical hold not for days, not for 
months, but for more than a year, fighting the very service they swore 
to serve, to get their benefits. They were given ratings that were far 
too low in order to keep them in the military rather than allowing them 
to get out and get on with their lives. I have talked to men and women 
on medical hold, who were trying to get through a complex system of 
ratings for help, whose advocates themselves, advocates to help them 
get through the system, were soldiers who had post-traumatic stress 
syndrome and had difficulty themselves dealing with their own lives, 
let alone advocating for a servicemember who is trying to get through a 
complex system.

I have talked personally to men and women who, after not once, not 
twice, but maybe dozens, if not more than 100 times, being close to 
explosives, came home and couldn't understand why they couldn't 
remember their children's names or where they put their car keys or 
even where they lived because they had traumatic brain injury, but no 
one had diagnosed it correctly.

I have talked to too many parents and spouses and family members who 
have told me horrific stories of their very proud servicemember who has 
come home, left the service, and been left at home medically dealing 
themselves drugs because they have post-traumatic stress syndrome and 
no one had taken the time to find them or their family to educate them 
about the services they need.

When we agree to this legislation, this amendment today, we will 
finally have taken a very direct step in helping the men and women who 
have served this country so honorably.

Madam President, 4/1/2/ years ago, when the President asked us to go 
to war in Iraq, he talked about weapons of mass destruction, he talked 
about al-Qaida, he talked about the mission to fight the war on 
terror--but what he has never talked about, in my opinion, is taking 
care of those men and women who have served us honorably. Today, the 
Senate is going to talk about those men and women who have served us 
and what we need to do for them.

Several months ago, Bob Woodruff presented an amazing television 
series to us about traumatic brain injury and its impact on men and 
women as they make their way through medical hold and finally go out 
and get into communities and are lost in the system. Traumatic brain 
injury is not something that can be treated today and you are fine 
tomorrow. It is a lifelong, debilitating injury. We do not have out in 
the country today the capability of making sure those men and women are 
not lost.

We have seen too many times, when men and women who have post-
traumatic stress syndrome can't keep a job, and they find themselves at 
home and, tragically, cases of suicide because of that.

We have to address the costs and the issues that face our men and 
women, and proudly stand here and make sure we are doing everything we 
can. This year, with the Democratically controlled majority, we have 
finally moved forward for the first time to put in place a strong 
budget to take care of our veterans. We have finally, for the first 
time when we passed the supplemental war spending, actually added 
dollars to care for our veterans.

Today the step we are taking has more to do with the policies these 
men and women fight when they come home. They are in a system in the 
service that rates them one way, and when they finally get discharged, 
they go through a veterans system that rates them in an entirely 
different way. The two systems do not talk to each other. They do not 
electronically talk to each other. Soldiers lose their medical forms. 
They are fighting systems. They can't get the benefits they deserve 
because they are fighting paperwork.

No one should fight for our country overseas and come home and have 
to fight paperwork. That is what this amendment will do, is make sure, 
finally, that the VA and the DOD speak in the same language and treat 
these men and women as a single person and not just a pile of 
paperwork.

This amendment has teeth. It will require the Department of Defense 
and the Department of Veterans Affairs for the very first time to come 
back to us by January 1 of next year with a series of comprehensive 
policies that will make sure our rating systems are the same; that 
their electronic systems that track our men and women speak to each 
other; that no one gets lost because their advocate is dealing with his 
or her own health care issues. It will make sure we can go back with 
pride to the men and women who have served us and say we have made a 
tremendous effort for them.

We have seen partisan battles through many years on the floor of the 
Senate. Today we are going to see a time when we come together as 
Republicans and Democrats to say there is one group of Americans who 
deserve us to speak with one voice, and that is the men and women who 
have served us. Regardless of how we feel about this war, regardless of 
how we want to end it--I want to end it more than anyone--I want to 
make sure the men and women who served us are taken care of. This 
amendment makes a dramatic step forward.

I think it is important to know, even if we were able to get enough 
votes to end this war today, the men and women who have served us will 
need our help and our support and our dollars for years to come--
whether they have lost a limb, whether they have traumatic brain 
injury, whether they have post-traumatic stress syndrome. They have 
borne the burden of this war. It is incumbent upon this country to bear 
the burden of their care. This amendment takes a major step forward, 
and I hope today we have 100 percent of the Senators on the floor 
saying yes to the men and women who served us so honorably.

I yield the floor.