---
---

# None
## `80e72c8c131ccca98ab3a1a10150d4cd`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I want to yield to Mr. 
Altmire in a second.

But let me just underscore this to say none of us are happy to be in 
this situation. Myself, I think that this is the best course. I think 
that we need to set in law a sense of when our commitment is going to 
end there. The only way we will finally complete the training of our 
military and our Armed Forces within the Iraqi community is to give 
them a sense of when they will have to stand up for themselves.

Now, at the same time, there is no perfect option. In fact, there may 
be no good option here. We all have to admit at some level, Republicans 
and Democrats, that we have gotten ourselves into a mess here that 
there is no pretty way out of. And that is part of what government 
hasn't been pretty good about talking about. This administration, it is 
all about black and white to


them. It is good or evil. It is right or wrong.

There is a lot of gray, and we created most of that gray by being the 
bull in the china shop there. But what we put forward today, what the 
majority of this caucus supported this afternoon and this evening is 
not the perfect, and it is probably not even the good, but it is the 
best that we can do in a very bad situation. And it is certainly the 
best that we can do by the brave men and women who are fighting.

So as proud as we are, I think, Mr. Hodes and Mr. Altmire, standing 
up today and finally getting our head out of the sand and putting some 
direction in what has been a directionless conflict, at the same time 
it is a sobering day because we all admit, especially as new Members 
who didn't participate in the lead-up to this very troubling time, that 
getting ourselves out of it isn't going to be an easy process and it is 
not going to be a very brief process.

With that, I will turn it over to Mr. Altmire.