---
---

# None
## `80e8830f1b1430d7c0fd7e5672ed2f66`
`Mr. DREIER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I'm going to close the debate now, so I 
yield myself the balance of the time.

Mr. Speaker, let me just begin by talking about procedure. We 
continue


to hear the distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules talk 
regularly about an open amendment process, and I will say with absolute 
certainty, I had the privilege of chairing the Rules Committee for 8 
years, and I will tell you that we have brought more rules to the floor 
of this House under a completely closed process during the first 7 
months of this year than we did during any 7 months during the 8 years 
that I was privileged to serve as chairman of the Rules Committee. So 
much for a new and open process.

Now, let's look at what it is we're considering here, Mr. Speaker. 
Mr. Speaker, we know full well that this is a bill, unlike resolutions 
that may have been brought up under closed rules in the past, this is 
actually a bill, a bill that's scheduled to go to the President's desk. 
Everyone knows that this bill is not going to become law.

What we've found is gross politicization once again, a commitment 
made that every week we're going to have some kind of vote on Iraq.

We all know that the war in Iraq is very unpopular. We know that the 
President is a great punching bag on this for virtually everyone, but 
the fact of the matter is we are in the midst of a very important 
global war on terror, and as the President said in the past, you know, 
we all like to be loved, but I'd much rather be right than be loved.

The fact of the matter is, we want to bring this war to an end. The 
President stood right here in this chamber in January and said I wish 
that this war were over and that we had won, but we need to ensure 
victory. And, Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, we are not given the 
opportunity to consider any thoughtful, bipartisan alternative to this 
measure which calls for the withdrawal to begin within 120 days. I 
mean, how crazy is that when we're looking for a report to come in 
September and as we are looking at success that has begun even after 
only 1 month, 1 month of this plan having been put into place under the 
greatly heralded General David Petraeus?

Now, Mr. Speaker, as my friends from New Mexico and Michigan have 
said, I'm going to move to defeat the previous question. I'm going to 
move to defeat the previous question so that we can actually ensure 
that we have the tools to win this war on terror. We've had a number of 
anniversaries marked. We've spent a lot of time talking about them, but 
we fail to remember the success that we've had at preempting attacks on 
this country.

Just last month, we marked the first anniversary of the discovery of 
the proposed attack on the Sears Tower and the FBI headquarters in 
Miami.

Just last week, we marked the first anniversary of the proposed 
attack on the plan to blow up the Hudson River tunnel between New 
Jersey and Manhattan.

Just in May, we had a report of the plan, as you all know, to see 
some of these people go in and start killing our people at Fort Dix in 
New Jersey.

And then of course, just a few weeks ago, we had the plan to blow up 
JFK International Airport.

Well, Mr. Speaker, we've been able to discover those, but we know 
full well from those in our intelligence operations and the Department 
of Homeland Security that we are, as Mr. Hoekstra said, blind and deaf, 
and I believe that we need to make sure we defeat the previous question 
so that we'll be in a position to amend this proposal so that we can 
ensure that we have the tools necessary to win this war on terror.

So vote ''no'' on the previous question.




Amendment to H. Res. 583 Offered by Mr. Drier of California




 Strike all after the resolved clause and insert the 


 following:



 That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 


 order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2956) to 


 require the Secretary of Defense to commence the reduction of 


 the number of United States Armed Forces in Iraq to a limited 


 presence by April 1, 2008, and for other purposes. All points 


 of order against consideration of the bill are waived except 


 those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. The bill 


 shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 


 considered as ordered on the bill to final passage without 


 intervening motion except: (1) four hours of debate, with 


 three hours equally divided and controlled by the chairman 


 and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 


 Services and one hour equally divided and controlled by the 


 chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on 


 Foreign Affairs; (2) the amendment in the nature of a 


 substitute printed in section 3 of this resolution, if 


 offered by the gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Hoekstra, or his 


 designee, which shall be in order without intervention of any 


 point of order except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of 


 rule XXI, shall be considered as read, and shall be 


 separately debatable for two hours equally divided and 


 controlled by the proponent and an opponent; and (3) one 


 motion to recommit with or without instructions.



 Sec. 2. During consideration of H.R. 2956 pursuant to this 


 resolution, notwithstanding the operation of the previous 


 question, the Chair may postpone further consideration of the 


 bill to such time as may be designated by the Speaker.



 Sec. 3. The amendment in the nature of a substitute to be 


 offered by Mr. Hoekstra of Michigan, or his designee, 


 referred to in section 1 is as follows:



 Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 


 following:



 Subsection (f) of section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence 


 Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801) is amended to read 


 as follows--



 ''(f) 'Electronic surveillance' means--



 ''(1) the installation or use of an electronic, mechanical, 


 or other surveillance device for acquiring information by 


 intentionally directing surveillance at a particular known 


 person who is reasonably believed to be in the United States 


 under circumstances in which that person has a reasonable 


 expectation of privacy and a warrant would be required for 


 law enforcement purposes; or



 ''(2) the intentional acquisition of the contents of any 


 communication under circumstances in which a person has a 


 reasonable expectation of privacy and a warrant would be 


 required for law enforcement purposes, if both the sender and 


 all intended recipients are reasonably believed to be located 


 within the United States.''