---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `80e974b3a5c27f4cf274e06871b38a26`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 17 November 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise 
today to pay tribute to the life and service of SGT Michael Clark. A 
member of Fort Carson's 3rd Brigade Combat Team, Sergeant Clark was 
killed on October 7 when his foot patrol was ambushed in Mosul, Iraq. 
He was 24 years old.

Sergeant Clark was on his second deployment to Iraq and in his fourth 
year of service in the 3rd Brigade. He was assigned to the brigade's 
1st Battalion, 8th Infantry Regiment, and served as a fire support 
specialist, a job that requires quick thinking, unusually strong 
stamina, and a mastery of the techniques of target processing. In this 
urban, guerrilla-style conflict, where


the enemy's location is often difficult to acquire, Sergeant Clark 
played a vital role as the eyes and ears of his team.

Sergeant Clark's dedication and talent earned him a number of awards, 
including the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Iraq Campaign 
Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, and the Combat Action Badge. He was 
also a two-time recipient of the Army Commendation Medal, which 
recognizes exemplary service.

Sergeant Clark and his team were charged with maintaining security in 
the eastern portion of Mosul, which is Iraq's second largest city and 
one of the remaining centers of operation for al-Qaida in Iraq. They 
carried out their mission--one of the most dangerous and important of 
the war--with courage and tenacity.

As a result of their efforts, security conditions in Mosul have 
markedly improved, and neighborhoods in the city that were once under 
control of extremists have been reclaimed and turned over to the Iraqi 
people. Two days before Sergeant Clark's death, American forces in 
Mosul killed Abu Qaswarah, the second-in-command for al-Qaida-in-Iraq 
who coordinated operations in the region. Thanks in large measure to 
the incredible courage and skill of Sergeant Clark and his men, the 
tide in Mosul is turning.

Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote that, ''the characteristic of genuine 
heroism is its persistency. All men have wandering impulses, fits and 
starts of generosity. But when you have resolved to be great, abide by 
yourself, and do not weakly try to reconcile yourself with the world. 
The heroic cannot be common, nor the common heroic.''

Sergeant Clark possessed the persistence and dedication to duty that 
is the mark of a genuine hero. He enlisted at a young age. He deployed 
and he redeployed. He served every day in Iraq committed to his 
country, his men, and his mission. He carried out his mission with 
distinction and honor. He was anything but common, and we are all 
better for it.

To Sergeant Clark's mother Cherie, his father Bradley, his wife 
Nalini, his son Lucas, and all his friends and family, I cannot imagine 
the sorrow you must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your 
loss is assuaged by your pride in Michael's service and by your 
knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his 
service and his sacrifice.














 Corporal Adrian Robles
