# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `80ebb0e0f7b70e513972eb8219c1d6b0`
`Ms. WATERS — 19 December 2007`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker and Members, I would like to commend those 
who have worked so hard for so long to try and right the wrong of our 
occupation in Iraq. I would like to thank the leadership for all the 
attempts that they have made to try and engage people on the opposite 
side of the aisle and those who don't have enough courage to do the 
right thing.

We find ourselves here at a moment with an omnibus bill that we have 
had to support, and many people have many things in the bill that they 
would like to have back home. I understand that. But in the final 
analysis, we are never going to end this war until we stop feeding this 
war with the taxpayers' dollars after they have told us to bring our 
soldiers home.

I stand here today in support of our soldiers. I support them coming 
home. Young men and women are dying in Iraq, the victims of IEDs, not 
even knowing how to protect themselves. And they come home, and we have 
to struggle to make sure that they are taken care of, that their health 
care needs are met.

When are we going to come to our senses? We are fighting a war that 
we never should have been in in the first place. We are fighting a war 
where we


were told there were weapons of mass destruction and there were none. 
We are fighting a war where we have contractors who are abusing 
civilians in Iraq. We have contractors who are stealing the taxpayers' 
money in Iraq. And yet we continue to nuance this debacle. We continue 
to say, I didn't understand. I didn't know. Well, let me make it 
perfectly clear.

There is $70 billion in this bill for Iraq and Afghanistan, and it is 
fungible. We don't know how much of it is going to be spent where. But 
don't go away saying, I didn't understand, I didn't know, that is not 
what I intended to do. There is $70 billion here. If you don't want to 
continue this war, don't vote for this bill.