# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `80ef74ba3a61a589b9c7e1a04f5ff48a`
`Mr. WOLF — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, I rise against the resolution, and I rise in 
support of the Iraq Study Group.

Most Americans favor the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. In 
fact, most Members of this body also favor the Iraq Study Group, but 
all would favor its consideration. I have asked the Rules Committee on 
three different occasions to make the Iraq Study Group recommendations 
in order, and I have been denied.

Let me say that we ought not blindly follow the White House, nor we 
ought not blindly follow the Democratic leadership in Congress. The 
American people have a very low opinion of this institution, as Mr. 
Thornberry just said, because all they see us doing is attacking, 
dividing, and using political rhetoric.

The American people want us to come together. A majority of your side 
have said they support the Iraq Study Group. A majority of my side have 
said they support the Iraq Study Group. Lee Hamilton, Jim Baker, Leon 
Panetta, and Ed Meese have done an outstanding job. They have 41 
experts of all political views that have come together.

This body ought to be voting and debating the Iraq Study Group and 
not a resolution that is preordained that it will be vetoed.

Let's come together. Let's bring it up for a vote, but to blindly 
follow the White House or to blindly follow the Democratic leadership 
that will not give this up, we will continue to have the lowest opinion 
poll this Congress has ever had. The American people deserve better. 
The men and women who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve 
better, and their families deserve better.



The 79 recommendations of the Iraq Study Group provide a 
comprehensive blueprint for dealing with the war in Iraq. Its 
conclusions were the result of consensus, and most people favor 
implementing the bipartisan panel's recommendations.

Members of the administration, albeit anonymously, have been quoted 
as saying the ISG is the way to go. Members of the military have looked 
favorably on the report. And so have both sides of the aisle here in 
Congress.

H.R. 2574, which would codify the recommendations of the report, and 
whose lead sponsor is a Democrat, has 58 cosponsors. 34 Republicans are 
on the bill; and there are 24 Democrats.

Look who served on the panel: Jim Baker, Lee Hamilton, Lawrence 
Eagleburger, Vernon Jordan, Ed Meese, Leon Panetta, Sandra Day 
O'Connor, Chuck Robb, Alan Simpson and Bill Perry. Secretary Gates 
served until being appointed Secretary of Defense.

The panel took nearly 9 months to come up with its 79 
recommendations--which were all agreed to unanimously.

The ISG met with military officers, regional experts, academics, 
journalists and high-level government officials from America and 
abroad.

Congress should have opportunity to debate--and discuss--the merits 
of the Iraq Study group's recommendations.

It is not adequate to just blindly follow the whims of the White 
House or the Democrat Leadership in Congres. We need to be working 
together toward building a consensus on this issue rather trying to 
score political points.

The American people expect more. The men and women serving in uniform 
deserve more. So do their families.

They want to see us the Congress, the administration and the nation 
working together; not fighting each other.

Implementing the 79 recommendations of the Iraq Study Group is the 
one thing we can do that could have an impact.

I have tried three times now to get this Congress to adopt the 
recommendations of the ISG. Each time my efforts have been rebuffed by 
the Rules Committee. If we had acted back in January, we wouldn't be 
here today. I realize the war has created a bitter divide in our 
country. The ISG allows us to come together.