---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `80f2d2ebe3e84d0efb2a063d887688be`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as a proud member of the 
Progressive and the Out of Iraq Caucuses, I rise to announce that I 
will proudly cast my vote to override the President's veto of H.R. 
1591, the ''U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans'' Health and Iraq 
Accountability Act.'' By vetoing the bipartisan Iraq Accountability Act 
last night, the President vetoed the will of the American people. The 
President vetoed a responsible funding bill for the troops that would 
have provided more funding for our troops and military readiness than 
even the President requested.


By vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President rejected a bill 
that reflects the will of the American people to wind down this war. By 
vetoing the Iraq Accountability Act, the President turned a deaf ear to 
the loud message sent by the American people last November.

I will vote to override the President's veto because the Iraq 
Accountability Act offers us the first real chance to end the misguided 
invasion, war, and occupation of Iraq. It puts us on the glide path to 
the day when our troops come home in honor and triumph and where we can 
care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan. 
This legislation helps to repair the damage to America's international 
reputation and prestige. It brings long overdue oversight, 
accountability, and transparency to defense and reconstruction 
contracting and procurement. Finally, it places the responsibility for 
bringing peace and security where it clearly belongs and that is 
squarely on the shoulders of the Iraqi government.

Mr. Speaker, in vetoing the legislation, the President claimed the 
Iraq Accountability Act, H.R. 1591 would undermine our troops and 
threaten the safety of the American people here at home. Coming from an 
Administration that has been wrong on every important question relating 
to the decision to launch the Iraq War as well the conduct of it, this 
claim is laughable. It is nearly as ridiculous as the President's often 
stated claim of ''progress'' in Iraq. The facts, of course, are 
otherwise. The U.S. death toll in Iraq reached 104 for April--making it 
the deadliest month of the year and one of the deadliest of the entire 
war. It is therefore little wonder that nearly 70 percent of Americans 
disapprove of the way the President is handling the war. But more 
important, the President's claim that the Iraq Accountability Act 
undermines our troops and threatens the safety of the American people 
here at home is simply not true.

Republican Senator Chuck Hagel recently returned from Iraq and paints 
a bleak picture: This thing is coming undone quickly, and [Prime 
Minister] Maliki's government is weaker by the day. The police are 
corrupt top to bottom. The oil problem is a huge problem. They still 
can't get anything through the parliament--no hydrocarbon law, no de-
Baathification law, no provincial elections.

Mr. Speaker, many of the Nation's most highly respected generals and 
several leading Republicans have endorsed H.R. 1591; all of them oppose 
the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq. Take, for example, 
Maj. Gen. John Batiste, U.S. Army (Ret.):




 This important legislation sets a new direction for Iraq. 


 It acknowledges that America went to war without mobilizing 


 the nation, that our strategy in Iraq has been tragically 


 flawed since the invasion in March 2003, that our Army and 


 Marine Corps are at the breaking point with little to show 


 for it, and that our military alone will never establish 


 representative government in Iraq. The administration got it 


 terribly wrong and I applaud our Congress for stepping up to 


 their constitutional responsibilities.


Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, USA, Ret. supports this legislation because it 
''gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government 
down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group.'' 
According to Major Eaton, the real audience for the timeline language 
is Prime Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq:




 The argument that this bill aides the enemy is simply not 


 mature--nobody on the earth underestimates the United States' 


 capacity for unpredictability. It may further create some 


 sense of urgency in the rest of our government, beginning 


 with the State Department.


Lt. Gen. William E. Odom, U.S. Army (Ret.), President Reagan's 
Director of the National Security Agency, supports the bill because 
it gives the President a chance to pull back from a disastrous course, 
re-orient U.S. strategy to achieve regional stability, and win help 
from many other countries--the only way peace will eventually be 
achieved.


Mr. Speaker, to date, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than 
America's involvement in World War II, the greatest conflict in all of 
human history. But there is a difference. The Second World War ended in 
complete and total victory for the United States and its allies. But 
then again, in that conflict America was led by FDR, a great Commander-
in-Chief, who had a plan to win the war and secure the peace, listened 
to his generals, and sent troops in sufficient numbers and sufficiently 
trained and equipped to do the job.

As a result of the colossal miscalculation in deciding to invade 
Iraq, the loss of public trust resulting from the misrepresentation of 
the reasons for launching that invasion, and the breath taking 
incompetence in mismanaging the occupation of Iraq, the Armed Forces 
and the people of the United States have suffered incalculable damage.

The war in Iraq has claimed the lives of 3,316 brave service men and 
women--64 in the first 16 days of this month. More than 
24,912 Americans have been wounded, many suffering the most horrific 
injuries. American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion to sustain 
this misadventure.


Mr. Speaker, it is time to hold the Bush Administration and the Iraqi 
government accountable. This bill's timetable and benchmarks finally 
hold the Iraqis accountable. As retired Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton has 
stated, This bill gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the 
Iraqi government down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq 
Study Group. The real audience for the timeline language is Prime 
Minister al-Maliki and the elected government of Iraq.

Even Defense Secretary Robert Gates has noted that the timetable is 
helpful--and sends


the message that ''the clock is ticking.'' Gates said ''The strong 
feelings expressed in the Congress about the timetable probably have 
had a positive impact. . . . in terms of communicating to the Iraqis 
that this is not an open-ended commitment.''

Mr. Speaker, in overriding the President's veto, this House will be 
doing the business and expressing the will of the American people. In 
the latest CBS News/New York Times poll, 64 percent of Americans favor 
a timetable that provides for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq 
in 2008. In the same poll, 57 percent of Americans believe that 
Congress, not the President, should have the last say when it comes to 
setting troop levels in Iraq.


Mr. Speaker, in overriding the President's veto, Congress is 
fulfilling its constitutional responsibilities and exercising the first 
check on the President's power in 6 years. As Iraq Study Group Co-
Chairman Lee Hamilton has pointed out, The Founders of our Nation never 
envisioned an unfettered president making unilateral decisions about 
American lives and military power. They did indeed make the president 
the commander in chief, but they gave to Congress the responsibility 
for declaring war, for making rules governing our land and naval 
forces, for overseeing policy, and of course the ability to fund war or 
to cease funding it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all members to join me in overriding the 
President's veto of Iraq Accountability Act, H.R. 1591. This is the 
best way to ensure accountability to our soldiers who have been 
sent into battle without proper training or equipment or a clear 
mission. It is the best way to keep faith with our veterans who are not 
getting the best medical care when they come home. Overriding the 
President's veto is essential to restoring our military that is being 
stretched to the limits by the Bush policy. Last, it is absolutely 
necessary to regain the confidence of the American people who demand a 
new direction in Iraq.
