---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `80ff7f8f3f5851ace5596765d9fe6fdc`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. Madam Speaker, the war in Afghanistan has entered its 
ninth year without clearly defined objectives or an exit strategy. With 
a deteriorating security situation and no comprehensive political 
outcome yet in sight, many experts view the war in Afghanistan as open-
ended.

The open-ended nature of this conflict is evident in the complexities 
of defining the enemy. The U.S. invaded Afghanistan shortly after 9/11 
because of the Taliban's support and refuge of al-Qaeda. We have had to 
combat the ever changing Taliban, foreign al Qaeda fighters, and the 
revolving loyalties of numerous tribal war lords. Furthermore, our 
close relationship with the Pakistan government has been seriously 
challenged by the jihadist threat now in Pakistan. We have no clear 
response to this new threat beyond drone attacks that also have high 
rates of civilian casualties.

President Bush's disregard for the complexities of Afghanistan and 
the damage that came from his disregard has severely undermined any 
prospect of stability and a successful conclusion to this conflict. The 
unnecessary war in Iraq also diverted critical resources when we needed 
them the most in Afghanistan. These failures by the Bush Administration 
encouraged the division of Afghanistan and allowed al Qaeda to move 
effortlessly into Pakistan.

President Obama's surge strategy in Afghanistan is counterproductive 
and sends the wrong message. The President sent an additional 17,000 
troops in early 2009 and then another 30,000 troops late last year. 
Beyond nation building, the additional troops have no clear mission and 
do not resolve the problems in Pakistan.

Much like President Obama's exit strategy in Iraq, we need a clear 
exit strategy for Afghanistan. The Afghani and Pakistani people need to 
know our troops are not permanent. Unfortunately, President Obama has 
doubled down in Afghanistan.

Afghanistan will not become stable until a political consensus is 
found across ethnic, tribal, religious and party affiliations. The 
government must be able to provide basic security for its population 
without the corruption that exists today. These same needs are just as 
true in Pakistan.

H. Con. Res. 248 is flawed because it offers a blunt directive to 
bring all the troops home in a short time frame. The resolution also 
offers an opportunity send a message to the President that his Afghan 
strategy is failing. My vote in favor of this resolution is a vote 
against the President's surge strategy in Afghanistan, a vote to demand 
an exit plan, and a vote to demand a regional diplomatic response to 
undercut the radicalization of Pakistan.