---
---

# None
## `80ffd43a322153d2f8d639d1f414cb71`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and the 
underlying bill, H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.

Mr. Speaker, I believe this House ought to voice its gratitude to the 
distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Skelton, 
for bringing before this House a thoughtful, responsible bill that 
outlines what we must do next in Iraq.

The bill clearly notes that our uniformed men and women have carried 
out and completed their mission for which they were authorized by 
Congress. The search for weapons of mass destruction is over. There 
were none, not a single one. The regime that put Iraq in an impossible 
international position no longer exists. So it's time that we draw down 
our troops from Iraq and require this administration to clearly define 
what the troop requirements and costs will be for the next phase of 
U.S. involvement in Iraq, a far more limited mission to root out al 
Qaeda and protect our diplomatic personnel inside Iraq.

The bill also promotes the kind of active diplomacy with Iraq's 
neighbors necessary for achieving a more lasting climate of stability 
in Iraq and throughout the region. Much, much more, Mr. Speaker, must 
be done. I expect to see stronger legislation in September, but this 
bill puts us on the right path.

For 5 long, deadly years, this Congress has done nothing but rubber-
stamp a tragically flawed policy. It is shameful. Whatever the cause 
the President and many Members of Congress thought they were pursuing 
in Iraq, it is lost. Political leaders inside Iraq appear incapable of 
putting national interest ahead of sectarian and personal agendas. 
Iraqi security forces operate more like sectarian militias. And despite 
their best efforts, the additional military forces we have poured into 
the Baghdad region have not been able to change the equation.

Over 3,600 of our troops have lost their lives to this battle. 
Thousands more have been wounded. It is wrong, Mr. Speaker, simply 
wrong to ask them to continue to sacrifice their lives and their limbs 
for this failed policy.

The war in Iraq is breaking the back of our military. It is causing 
severe damage to the Federal budget to the tune of $10 billion each 
month, and causing grave harm to the future fiscal health of our 
Nation. It continues to undermine our most important political, 
diplomatic, military and strategic alliances. It saps our ability to 
focus on global terrorism and to safeguard our own people. And it has 
contributed to the chaos inside Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, it is past time for change. And while President Bush 
keeps scorning deadlines and promising


breakthroughs that never come, it is clear that he lacks the vision, 
the wisdom or the courage to chart a new course. It is frighteningly 
clear that the President plans, instead, to stay the course and dump 
this mess on the next President.

It is time for Congress to step up to the plate and change direction 
in Iraq. It is time for every Member of this House to work together to 
draw down our forces and bring our troops home to their families and 
their communities.

For too long Congress has been complicit, and the American people are 
frustrated, and they are angry. We don't need more studies or 
commissions. We don't need more excuses. We don't need more delay. Too 
many lives are being lost. What we need is for Members of Congress to 
make a choice, to stand up and be counted. Will you continue to rubber-
stamp the current disastrous policies in Iraq or will you vote for 
change?

We must act now, Mr. Speaker. This is simply too important to wait 
any longer. Too many lives are on the line.

All of us, no matter how we originally voted on the war, share in the 
responsibility in what is happening in Iraq. All of us, by not voting 
to change course, are responsible for sending so many of our brave men 
and women into a civil war where far too many of them have been killed.

If the President of the United States will not respect the will of 
the American people and end this war, then Congress must.








[From the Los Angeles Times, July 11, 2007]









U.S. Troop Buildup in Iraq Falling Short










(By Julian E. Barnes and Ned Parker)




 Baghdad.--In the Ubaidi neighborhood in the eastern part of 


 this city, American soldiers hired a local Iraqi to clean the 


 Porta-Potties at their combat outpost. Before the man could 


 start, members of the local Shiite militia threatened to kill 


 him.



 Today, the Porta-Potties are roped off, and the U.S. 


 soldiers, who could not promise to protect their sewage man, 


 are forced to burn their waste.



 As part of the Bush administration's troop ''surge'' 


 strategy, the U.S. unit here had moved into an abandoned 


 potato chip factory hoping to push out the militia, protect 


 existing jobs and provide stability for economic growth. 


 Instead, militia members stymied development projects, cut 


 off the water supply and executed two young Iraqi women seen 


 talking to U.S. soldiers, sending a powerful message about 


 who really controls Ubaidi's streets.



 In the next few days, the Bush administration is scheduled 


 to release a preliminary assessment of its overall Iraq 


 strategy. Officials may point to signs of progress scattered 


 across the country: a reduction in death-squad killings in 


 Baghdad, agreements with tribal leaders in Al Anbar province, 


 offensives north and south of the capital.



 President Bush defended his strategy Tuesday, demanding 


 Congress give his administration more time and insisting that 


 America can ''win this fight in Iraq.'' To underscore his 


 request, Bush sent top aides to lobby lawmakers on Capitol 


 Hill.



 But as the experience of the troops in Ubaidi indicates, 


 U.S. forces so far have been unable to establish security, 


 even for themselves. Iraqis continue to flee their homes, 


 leaving mixed areas and seeking safety in religiously 


 segregated neighborhoods. About 32,000 families fled in June 


 alone, according to figures compiled by the United Nations 


 and the Iraqi government that are due to be released next 


 week.



 U.S. forces have staged offensives to push insurgents out 


 of some safe havens. But many of the insurgents have escaped 


 to new areas of the country, launching attacks where the U.S. 


 presence is lighter.



 And there has been no sign of any of the crucial political 


 progress the administration had hoped to see in Iraq.



 U.S. commanders are painfully aware that they are running 


 out of time to change those realities. Army Gen. David H. 


 Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, has made 


 several efforts to slow the clock in Washington. Each time, 


 it has sped up.



 The full complement of the ''surge'' arrived in Iraq last 


 month, bringing the total to 28,500 additional troops. 


 Military officers originally hoped to have until 2008 before 


 they had to render a verdict on the strategy. Then the 


 Washington timeframe shrank to September. Now, it is 


 shrinking further, with Congress demanding answers even 


 sooner.



 Supporters of the troop buildup insist that small steps 


 could grow into larger and more long-term successes if 


 lawmakers are patient.



 ''Right now we are three weeks into this. It's not like 


 flipping a light switch,'' said a military officer in 


 Baghdad, expressing the frustration of many commanders. 


 ''Time has to be given for things to work.''



 Commanders point to Ramadi, the capital of Al Anbar 


 province, as a showcase for the kind of results the military 


 wants from the current strategy. Once a battlefield, the city 


 is now largely peaceful, calm enough that in March, Iraqi 


 Prime Minister Nouri Maliki was able to pay his first 


 official visit.



 But military officers stress that it took about nine months 


 of sustained effort to make Ramadi a relatively pacified 


 city. And with its volatile mix of Sunni and Shiite Muslims, 


 Baghdad presents a far more complex challenge than all-Sunni 


 Ramadi.



 The interim progress report that Bush promised to release 


 this week is likely to emphasize the success the military has 


 had in killing Sunni militants in the ''Baghdad belts,'' the 


 cities and towns that dot the major rivers and highways 


 leading to the capital. In recent weeks, the newly arrived 


 U.S. forces have been focused on fighting members of Al Qaeda 


 in Iraq, a militant Sunni group made up of Iraqis and foreign 


 fighters.



 Top generals say the strategy is crucial to securing 


 Baghdad. Only by controlling the routes into the capital, and 


 denying militants safe havens, can the U.S. and Iraqi 


 militaries keep out the car bombs that stoke sectarian 


 violence inside the capital.



 But leading Iraqis are less sure of the strategy.



 Mahmoud Othman, a Kurdish member of the Iraqi parliament, 


 said the U.S. approach may be successful at weakening Al 


 Qaeda in Iraq. But he said Americans would not be able to 


 solve Iraq's sectarian conflict or stop clashes between armed 


 groups in Baghdad neighborhoods.



 ''The surge has an important effect in fighting Al Qaeda,'' 


 the independent politician said. ''On the Sunni-Shiite 


 conflict, it hasn't had any effect. . . . Extremist Shiites 


 and Sunnis are fighting each other. The Americans can't stop 


 this.''



 U.S. officials have made little, if any, progress with 


 their persistent calls for Iraqi officials to take steps 


 toward reconciliation between Shiites and Sunnis.



 Key administration officials, most prominently Defense 


 Secretary Robert M. Gates and Vice President Dick Cheney, 


 have visited Iraq to push for passage of an oil-revenue 


 sharing law, provincial elections and reform of rules barring 


 members of the former ruling Baath Party from government 


 jobs.



 But the Iraqi government is bogged down by fighting among 


 Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish parties. It is unclear whether the 


 oil law, the one piece of benchmark legislation still given 


 hopes for passage before September, will reach a vote any 


 time soon.



 The number of death-squad killings in the capital, one sign 


 of sectarian divisions, is down from earlier this year. But 


 the number remains roughly at the level seen after the 2006 


 bombing of Samarra's Golden Mosque, which served as a 


 catalyst for the extreme sectarian violence.



 In Baghdad, the number of bodies found dumped in the 


 streets dropped to 540 last month from 830 in January. Some 


 American officers say those numbers could rise again. And 


 others say that the decline may simply represent the 


 depressing reality that most Baghdad neighborhoods are now 


 segregated, meaning there are fewer people left for death 


 squads to kill.



 Maj. Gen. Joseph Fil, Jr., the commander of U.S. forces in 


 Baghdad, said that American troops at the end of June 


 controlled about 42% of the city's neighborhoods, up from 19% 


 in April.



 But to many Iraqis, that is little comfort. ''The Americans 


 do not make me feel safe,'' said Amin Sadiq, a 30-year-old 


 Shiite worker in the Ghadeer neighborhood of east Baghdad. 


 ''When you hear the speeches of the top U.S. military 


 leaders, you think that everything is ideal and perfect and 


 Iraq will be better. But when you see how the U.S. soldiers 


 behave, I really feel I should not trust the leaders.''



 The American military has helped bring a tense truce in 


 some areas, but has not re-integrated once-mixed 


 neighborhoods.



 The western Baghdad neighborhood of Ghazaliya, once a 


 prosperous mixed middle-class area, was riven by sectarian 


 violence in 2006. It is now divided between Shiites in the 


 northern end and Sunnis in the south, with the U.S. military 


 stuck in the middle, trying to keep the peace.



 ''Last year, things were bad. This year is worse than 


 before,'' said a man in his 50s who identified himself as 


 Qais Qaisi.



 The presence of Iraqi and American security forces means 


 that Sunnis cannot fight back against the Shiite militias, 


 which have the tacit support of the Iraqi army unit in the 


 area, Qaisi said. But he nevertheless voiced concern about a 


 possible American pullout.



 ''If the multinational forces withdraw, there will be very 


 bloody sectarian battles,'' he said.



 Military officers routinely say that improving the economy 


 is a prerequisite to improving security. And U.S. forces, by 


 putting up barriers and controlling traffic, have been able 


 to reopen some marketplaces that had been targeted by suicide 


 bombers. Although that has allowed some neighborhood 


 commerce, success with other projects has proved more 


 elusive.



 The Pentagon is working to reopen state-owned factories and 


 has identified several dozen that can be renovated and 


 restarted. But that work is slow, and many residents say they 


 see few improvements in their neighborhoods.



 Although U.S. forces have been able to overcome militia 


 threats and start small neighborhood projects such as 


 installing streetlights, they are not able to initiate larger 


 undertakings.





 ''We aren't doing anything meaningful,'' said one mid-level 


 noncommissioned officer. ''Where are the real projects? We 


 aren't offering these people enough safety, or money, or 


 jobs.''



 Amid the political setbacks and continuing violence, 


 however, there are signs of relative calm in some areas.



 Earlier this year, the streets of Baghdad were desolate at 


 sunset. Now, in places, there are signs of life.



 In Yarmouk, a neighborhood in west Baghdad, 18-year-old 


 Ahmed Shakir used to see bodies on the street every day. 


 Snipers fired from hidden perches and gunmen clashed with 


 U.S. and Iraqi soldiers. But last month, after weeks of U.S. 


 patrols, his neighborhood started to feel safe--safe enough 


 for Shakir to stay outside on the basketball court until 8:30 


 p.m.



 ''It is usually me and three of my friends, we always go 


 play basketball,'' he said. ''Now we have U.S. and Iraqi 


 patrols roaming the streets every day. If they continued 


 doing this, things will remain better. If not, then it will 


 get worse for sure.