---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `810127642841ea7d8bbd47135fd042f5`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 21 July 2008`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Madam President, I rise today to pay tribute to SPC 
Estell ''Lee'' Turner and his heroic service to our country. As a 
member of the Army's Echo Company, 1st Battalion, 506th Infantry 
Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division based in 
Fort Campbell, KY, SPC Turner was serving in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom. On July 2, 2008, he died in the National Naval 
Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, after being mortally wounded by an IED 
in Afghanistan.

Lee had already served his country for 6 years in the Army two 
decades earlier, having finished his military service in 1989. Yet this 
wasn't enough. Even though he had gone above and beyond, Lee still had 
the drive to be a hero. After moving to Sioux Falls in 2004, he 
reenlisted in the Army at the age of 39, after the Army had raised its 
age limit. He looked forward to being deployed to Afghanistan, his 
first tour in the war on terror. His wife recalls, ''He never seemed 
worried about it, this is something he believed in. He thought it was 
right.''

Raised in a military family, patriotism was instilled in his heart 
from a young age. Lee's father served in the Navy for 18 years, and his 
grandfather was an Army soldier who served in World War II. His younger 
brother John is in the Army and his wife is an Army reservist. Lee's 
awards and decorations include the Army Good Conduct Medal, the 
National Defense Service Medal, the Army Combat Action Badge, and the 
Purple Heart. Lee enjoyed racing and fixing cars and playing guitar. He 
had a fierce devotion to his family, and he will be deeply missed by 
those who survive him: his wife Leah, his daughter Lyda, his siblings, 
John and ''Gucci,'' and his mother Gloria.

Specialist Turner gave his all for his soldiers and his country. Our 
Nation owes him a debt of gratitude, and the best way to honor his life 
is to emulate his commitment to our country. Madam President, I join 
with all South Dakotans in expressing my deepest sympathy to the family 
and friends of SPC Estell Turner. He will be missed, but his service to 
our Nation will never be forgotten.












 Staff Sergeant Jeremy Vrooman


Madam President, I also rise today to pay tribute to SSG Jeremy 
Vrooman and his heroic service to our country. As a member of the 
Army's 2nd Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment, 1st Armored 
Division, in Vilseck, Germany, Staff Sergeant Vrooman was serving in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On July 15, 2008, he died in a 
Baghdad hospital after sustaining injuries from an improvised explosive 
device.

A native South Dakotan, Jeremy carried on the tradition of military 
service in his family when he joined the Army 9 years ago. Both of his 
grandfathers served and his older brother, Justin, is currently in the 
Army. Jeremy was proud to serve in the military and planned on making 
it his career.


He was on his second tour of duty in Iraq.

Jeremy enjoyed playing with his children, hunting, fishing, and 
mountain biking. Friends and family will miss Jeremy's laughter and 
infectious smile.

Sergeant Vrooman gave his all for his soldiers and his country. Our 
Nation owes him a debt of gratitude, and the best way to honor his life 
is to emulate his commitment to our country. Madam President, I join 
with all South Dakotans in expressing my deepest sympathy to the family 
and friends of Sergeant Vrooman. He will be missed, but his service to 
our Nation will never be forgotten.
