---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `810161f5142d857d32fc591f347af791`
`Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico — 15 June 2007`

---


Mrs. WILSON of New Mexico. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an 
amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations bill this year.

My amendment would designate and devote $2 million from the 
Department of Administration general operations expenses account. This 
is a very large account. The President requested $1.4 billion for that 
account. This body is appropriating $1.6 billion for that account, and 
what it does is fence that money and say that $2 million of this must 
be devoted and appropriated to the Advisory Committee on Women 
Veterans.

The intent of this amendment is that the Advisory Committee on Women 
Veterans would undertake a special effort, through a task force or 
special commission, to study and make recommendations on the health 
care needs of women veterans. All of us are concerned about whether the 
veterans health care system is meeting the needs of this newest 
generation of veterans. But there is a special category of veterans 
that I think sometimes gets overlooked.

In 1978, I got a one-way ticket to Colorado Springs, Colorado, in the 
third class with women at the United States Air Force Academy. And I 
walked up a ramp, and over that ramp was a big sign in aluminum letters 
that said, ''Bring Me Men.'' That sign stayed there for 20 years after 
women were admitted to the Air Force Academy. It's gone now, but some 
of us as women veterans feel that maybe the VA hospitals have a similar 
sign over their doors, if not literally, then certainly figuratively.

I am the only woman veteran serving in the Congress. And women 
veterans face different obstacles than men and have different health 
care needs than men when they start to get care from the VA. To start 
with, many women don't even consider themselves or call themselves 
veterans, and they don't think of the VA as their system.

A larger number of women are serving in the military, and in the 
future we are going to see higher numbers of women veterans, and they 
will face different problems and challenges as they age. One in seven 
veterans of the current war on terrorism, one in seven Americans who 
are deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan is a woman, and yet the VA health 
care system is very oriented towards the health care needs of men.

Just let me give you one example. If you are a veteran and you go to 
the VA for a clinic on PTSD, if everyone else in that group is a guy, 
are you really getting the care that is appropriate to you? A lot of 
women veterans don't feel comfortable in those settings. They are not 
sure that the OB/GYN care is what


they need. If they face osteoporosis, they're not sure that the VA is 
where they should be. Or if they face problems with cancers particular 
to women, is the VA going to meet their needs?

My goal in proposing this amendment is to get the VA to bring 
together a group of people who can truly devote the time and effort 
needed to study the needs of women veterans and examine the care that 
is available to our women veterans and the challenges that we face so 
that they can report their findings to Congress and to the VA so that 
we as a body can evaluate and adjust the system so that all of our 
veterans get the care that they have earned.

I am very grateful, and I think all Americans are, to those who serve 
our Nation, and we have a responsibility to make sure that they receive 
the best possible care. The burdens of this war on terrorism has fallen 
on the shoulders of a relatively small number of Americans who have 
volunteered to take great risks on our behalf. We owe them, our 
veterans past, present and future, a debt of gratitude for their 
selflessness and for their service. We need to make sure that our 
veterans get the benefits they were promised, the health care they 
deserve, and the recognition that our Nation owes them.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.