---
---

# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `810a5f91f675680e7b4526018ece402e`
`Mr. HOLT — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of this very 
important legislation.

During the first 6 months of 2007, this Congress has rightly spent a 
great deal of time debating and trying to reorient our policy in Iraq. 
It's important to remember that one of the chief reasons we need to 
leave Iraq is so that we can win the other war we've been fighting 
since 2001: the war against Al Qaeda and their Taliban allies in 
Afghanistan.



This bipartisan bill provides additional support for programs as 
diverse as assistance to women and girls, energy development and 
counter-narcotics. It authorizes $6.435 billion for fiscal years 2008 
through 2010, of which $2.145 billion is authorized to be spent in 
fiscal year 2008. Let me comment on a couple of specific provisions 
that I think are particularly important.

This bill seeks to set standards, create performance metrics, and 
mandate a tightly coordinated interagency strategy for Afghanistan--the 
very kinds of measures that were absent in our effort in Iraq from the 
very beginning. Starting in December 2007 and every 6 months afterwards 
through September 30, 2010, this bill would require the President to 
submit detailed reports to Congress on the political, military, and 
economic progress being made--or not being made--in Afghanistan. It is 
long past time that Congress mandated such benchmarks so that we can 
know what is working in Afghanistan and make adjustments where things 
are not working.

This bill also mandates the creation of a special envoy to help more 
closely coordinate activities between those governments and the 
International Security Assistance Force in their joint efforts to 
interdict Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters who attempt to use Pakistani 
territory to launch attacks against civilian and military targets in 
Afghanistan. Pakistan's record in this area is at best mixed, and I am 
glad that the committee has recognized the need for our government to 
increase its effort to get both governments to make the borders no-go 
zones for insurgents.

Finally, this bill recognizes that the Taliban and Al Qaeda are not 
the only enemies of Afghanistan's fledgling democracy. The narcotics 
trade in Afghanistan is producing violence and corruption that 
threatens the people and government of Afghanistan just as much as the 
actions of the terrorists. Indeed, we know that in many cases the 
terrorists are using narco-trafficking to help fund their violent 
campaign to overthrow the Afghan government.

Weeding out potentially corrupt police who assist the drug lords and 
the terrorists is essential, and this bill would require that future 
assistance to the Afghan National Police include ''vetting procedures 
to adequately assess each Afghan National Police candidate's aptitude, 
professional skills, integrity, and other qualifications that are 
essential to law enforcement work.'' This is exactly the type of 
framework that we have lacked in Iraq to deal with police corruption in 
that country, and so I'm pleased that the committee is including such a 
vetting requirement for Afghan police in this bill.

Mr. Chairman, I look forward to the day when the people of 
Afghanistan are free of the fear and uncertainty that decades of war 
and civil strife have produced in that ancient country. Let us hasten 
the arrival of that day by reaffirming our partnership with them by 
passing this bill.