---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `811d5dab6e9c1d82724f4edb957d3e05`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, let me comment, if I can. The Berry ''Buy 
American'' program is absolutely 100 percent on target. The reason for 
waivers is when we find that there is no domestic product equal to or 
better than a product that has a component overseas, in the interest of 
our men and women in the military, we give the


waiver so it doesn't keep us--so we do not prohibit ourselves from 
having the best material possible. If an American domestic manufacturer 
produces an alternative fiber or fabric which meets or exceeds the 
fire-resistant para-aramid rayon that is now being used, the Berry 
waiver will no longer apply because there will be a domestically 
produced U.S. product that is superior or equal to that particular 
product of rayon.

So I would respectfully submit to the Senators from Virginia and 
South Carolina that the argument that there is a prohibition--that this 
would keep people from making an investment in R&D to produce something 
better is the reverse. It actually will accelerate the need for them to 
make the R&D investment to try and produce something better in the 
United States, if they can.

One last point. The U.S. military did 24 different evaluations after 
the initial move into Iraq when we had so many burn injuries. It 
determined this fabric has to be the best for our men and women 
aviators, men and women in the Marine Corps, men and women in the Army 
in combat, and it has performed well in Afghanistan and Iraq ever 
since.

So I would submit the R&D argument is actually accelerated with the 
extension of the waiver, and the proof of the product is in the pudding 
which we have seen with the safety of our troops and our men and women 
in harm's way.