---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `8127a1b19bf4f4a68ed9c7b41d6a9621`
`Mr. PENCE — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. PENCE. Madam Chairman, on Monday I was proud to visit with 
sailors at Naval Station Norfolk, the largest military station in the 
world. When the 78 ships and 133 aircraft home ported at Norfolk are 
not at sea, they are alongside one of the 14 piers or inside one of the 
15 aircraft hangars for repair, refit, training and to provide the 
ship's or squadron's crew an opportunity to be with their families.

As I looked into the eyes of our brave men and women in uniform, I 
felt sick knowing that instead of getting the support they need in this 
fight, this Democratic Congress is pulling the rug out from under them. 
Democrats on the House Armed Services Committee rejected Republican 
efforts to adopt an amendment to H.R. 1585 that would have authorized 
emergency supplemental appropriations for Fiscal Year 2007.

Madam Chairman, I rise today to condemn the Democratic plan to fund 
the war on the installment plan. Failure to pass an acceptable long-
term supplemental appropriations bill for FY07 is a clear and present 
danger to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, to the Department of 
Defense institutionally, and to its national security mission to defend 
the homeland.

Tomorrow marks the 100th day since the administration asked Congress 
to provide funding for our troops. Because Congress has not sent the 
President an acceptable supplemental funding bill, DoD will notify 
Congress today of its intent again to transfer an additional $1.4 
billion from Navy and Air Force personnel accounts to fund on-going 
Army operations in the War on Terror. This funding will last about a 
week.

This latest transfer request is the fifth one necessitated by the 
lack of supplemental funding. In sum, two have been necessary to fund 
Army operations, one to fund procurement of Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected vehicles, one to bolster the Iraqi Security Forces, and one 
to counter improvised explosive devices.

In addition to these transfers, the Army has moved funding originally 
allocated for fourth quarter expenses into the third quarter. The Army 
Operations and Maintenance account--the principal account that covers 
day-to-day Army operations--no longer has any funding available for the 
fourth quarter operations.

Moving money around like this creates uncertainty and inefficiency, 
ultimately costing the taxpayers more money in the long run and 
wreaking havoc on existing contracts.

The funding delay has already caused disruptions. Delays have limited 
DoD's ability to properly contract for the reconstitution of equipment 
for active and reserve forces. This increases the readiness risk of our 
military with each passing day. Needless delays in accelerated fielding 
of new force protection capabilities such as the Mine Resistant Ambush 
Protected vehicle and counter-lED technologies. Depletion of funds 
necessary to accelerate the training of Iraqi security forces.

Without relief soon, the Department of Defense will be forced to take 
further drastic steps like halting training, delaying deployments and 
re-deployments, and/or resorting to the use of the Feed and Forage Act, 
which permits obligation of funds prior to appropriation in emergency 
situations, an extremely poor and disruptive way of waging a war on 
terror.

Madam Chairman, our troops need funding and they need it now.






 2007 Reprogrammed funds for the Department of Defense




 DoD has $4.5 billion in General Transfer Authority. All 


 transfers in excess must come from other sources. War-related 


 reprogramming includes: Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 


 (MRAP) Vehicles: $32 million from emergency funding for 


 Humvees and radios; Iraq Security Forces Fund: $800 million 


 Under General Transfer Authority as well as various Army 


 military personnel, procurement, and research and development 


 programs (includes helicopter modifications, ammunition, and 


 communications equipment); IED Defeat: $825 million Under 


 General Transfer Authority from 4th quarter Navy and Air 


 Force personnel accounts funding; and Army Operations: $3 


 billion under General Transfer Authority from 4th quarter 


 Navy and Air Force personnel accounts funding.



 Total Requested Transfers: $4.918 billion.



 Total General Transfer Authority Remaining: $342 million.


Letter from Defense Secretary Robert Gates to Congressional leadership 









 on incremental funding proposals:




 Delays have limited DoD's ability to properly contract for 


 the reconstitution of equipment for active and reserve 


 forces. The readiness risk of our military increases with 


 each passing day. The funding delay has caused needless 


 delays in accelerating fielding of new force protection 


 capabilities such as the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 


 (MRAP) vehicles and counter-IED technologies.



 The delay has caused a depletion of funds necessary to 


 accelerate the training of Iraqi security forces. ''The 


 prospect of segmenting and further delaying funding that is 


 urgently needed can only result in additional disruption and 


 uncertainty in department operations . . . An organization 


 the size and complexity of the Department of Defense needs a 


 certain measure of funding stability and predictability. 


 Without it, compensatory measures are required that cause, at 


 best inefficiency and at worst a reduction in the 


 Department's ability to carry out its national security 


 mission.''



Secretary of Defense Talkers (we received these from a friend that 









 asked we not identify the source):




 Because Congress hasn't sent Congress an acceptable 


 supplemental funding bill, DoD will notify Congress of its 


 intent again to transfer an additional $1.4 billion. This 


 funding will only last about a week. The latest transfer 


 request is the 5th one necessitated by the lack of 


 supplemental funding. The Army has moved funding originally 


 allocated for fourth quarter expenses into the third quarter.



 The Army Operations and Maintenance account--the principal 


 account that covers day-to-day Army operations--no longer has 


 any funding available for fourth quarter operations. Without 


 relief soon, DoD will be forced to take further drastic steps 


 like halting training, delaying deployments and re-


 deployments, and/or resorting to the use of the Feed and 


 Forage Act, which permits obligation of funds prior to 


 appropriation in emergency situations, an extremely poor and 


 disruptive way of waging a war on terror.




From April 16 Heritage Memo titled, ''Funding Needs Prompt Army 












Spending Constraints.''




 Beginning in mid-April, the Army will slow the purchase of 


 repair parts and other supplies, relying instead on existing 


 inventory to keep equipment operational. Joint Letter to 


 Chairman Obey from Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, Adm. Michael G. 


 Mullen, Gen. T. Michael Moseley, and Gen. James T. Conway: 


 ''Without approval of the supplemental funds in April, the 


 Armed Services will be forced to take increasingly disruptive 


 measures in order to sustain combat operations. The impacts 


 on readiness and quality of life could be profound.''



 Gen. Peter Pace: After mid-April, ''the army has told us 


 that they will have to begin curtailing some training here at 


 home for Guard, Reserve, and for units, which means that the 


 baseline for those units will be reduced as far as their 


 capability, and when they're called, it will take them longer 


 to be ready and could, over time, delay their availability to 


 go back into combat.''



 Defense Secretary Robert Gates: ''This kind of disruption 


 to key programs will have a genuinely adverse effect on the 


 readiness of the Army and the quality of life for soldiers 


 and their families. I urge the Congress to pass the 


 supplemental as quickly as possible.''