---
---

# STIMULUS PACKAGE
## `812d2f561f29d3f86951e4667baffefe`
`Mr. McCAIN — 13 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Of course, we know about Davis-Bacon that will inflate 
the construction costs of the bill by $17 billion. Section 604 requires 
that only domestic apparel and textile products may be procured by the 
Department of Homeland Security, unless the Secretary of DHS determines 
the quality and quantity cannot be procured in the United States at 
market prices, whatever ''market prices'' means. There is a provision 
which states that within 45 days of enactment, the Governor of each 
State shall certify that they will request and use taxpayer funds 
provided in the bill. It goes on to say that if any of the money 
provided by this bill is not accepted by the Governor, then that 
State's legislature can simply pass a resolution to bypass the Governor 
and receive those funds. I have never seen a provision such as that in 
the Congress.

I repeat, if the Governor of a State says his State doesn't need the 
money, then the State's legislature can simply pass a resolution to 
bypass the elected Governor of the State and receive the funds. What 
does that say about States rights and States electing their Governors 
to lead. It is remarkable. Every Governor in America should be on 
notice that we may have established a precedent that if you don't want 
to take taxpayer money, then you can be bypassed by your legislature. 
It is unconstitutional and should be challenged in court.

It adds a new far-reaching policy with respect to unemployment 
compensation entitled ''Unemployment Compensation Modernization''--an 
interesting description. The new policy would allow a person to collect 
unemployment insurance for leaving his job to care for an immediate 
family member's illness, any illness or disability as defined by the 
Secretary of Labor. This provision stems from legislation introduced in 
the Senate during the 110th Congress that was not approved. Each State 
would need to amend their unemployment insurance in order to receive a 
portion of the $7 billion added to the bill for this additional 
unemployment compensation program. It provides a total waiver of cost 
savings related to inland waterways projects; 50 percent of the cost is 
supposed to be carried by private companies that utilize the waterways.

The report establishes the Federal Coordinating Council for 
comparative effectiveness research. The bill text does not use the term 
''clinical'' when referring to comparative effectiveness research, 
leading to the possibility that the bill does not protect against the 
research being used to make coverage decisions based on cost-
effectiveness rather than clinical effectiveness.

It includes the Health Information Technology for Economic and 
Clinical Health Act, a massive overhaul of our health IT infrastructure 
that deserves more consideration.

It is 1,071 pages and a 41-page statement of the managers, a total of 
1,492 pages. It was negotiated in a partisan fashion, behind closed 
doors, in direct contradiction to President Obama's commitments during 
the campaign. I understand his spokesman yesterday said it was ''an 
emergency.'' It may have been an emergency, but that was not mentioned 
during the commitments made by then-candidate Obama.

Among other things, the conference report contains $450 million for 
Amtrak security grants through the Department of Transportation. It 
wasn't in the House bill, wasn't in the Senate bill. It duplicates a 
program that already exists.

I urge my colleagues, when they have a few spare moments, to look at 
the history of Amtrak, a railroad that was taken over by the Federal 
Government with the intent to turn it over to the private sector in a 
short period. We have propped it up with billions and billions of 
taxpayer dollars, funding that will never become profitable.

A provision recreates the slush fund that was unanimously rejected by 
both the House and Senate. The slush fund allows agency heads to move 
money around between programs as they see fit without any real 
oversight by Congress.

I mentioned high-speed rail. That is $8 billion. The Senate included 
$2 billion for these programs, and the House didn't include anything. 
The conference now has added $6 billion. I mentioned earlier the 
veterans and military construction spending has been cut by over $3 
billion below both the House and Senate bills. Of course, the 
conference report, among many other items, contains $50 million for 
NEA, a worthwhile endeavor, but I don't see how you can make the 
argument it creates jobs.

A commitment was made that the spending would be done quickly. The 
conference agreement drops provisions that require all funds in the 
bill to be awarded within 30 to 120 days of enactment. Instead, the 
report allows numerous programs to have 3 years or more to actually 
begin spending the funding.

I know many of my colleagues, including my friend from Illinois, are 
here. I don't want to take too much time, as many of my colleagues wish 
to discuss the legislation. I wish to mention there is $2 billion for a 
neighborhood stabilization program which could go for money for groups 
such as ACORN. You could make arguments about whether ACORN should be 
funded. I do not see how that possibly creates jobs.


I understand this bill will be passed this evening. I hope the next 
time--maybe with TARP--because there are going to be other issues of 
enormous consequence that the Congress and the President of the United 
States will face in the coming weeks and months. I do not believe 
things are going to get better in the world real soon. We see 
activities around the world, from the behavior of the Russians to the 
Iranian testing of a missile, to renewed aggressive rhetoric by North 
Korea, to others, including developing a strategy for Afghanistan. But 
there are also enormous economic challenges here at home.

The American people would like us to, and the message they have sent 
us is, that they want us to sit down and work together. As I said, this 
bill began with a statement by the Speaker of the House: We won. We 
write the bill. We need to sit down together before the bill is 
written, outline the principles, turn those principles we share into 
concrete legislation, and work together. I hope we never again have a 
repetition of a bill that has such enormous consequence that would pass 
through both bodies with literally no Republican support--three 
Senators out of 178 Members in the House and 40 in the Senate. That is 
not bipartisanship.

I think we passed up an opportunity this time. I hope the American 
people will respond again by sending us the message. They want us to 
address the economic woes we face, but they want us to address them 
together. This legislation, in my view, is very bad for the economic 
future of America.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.