---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `81363ba55fa9dd6e8e4eb61a737336d3`
`Mrs. BOXER — 20 November 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, today I rise to pay tribute to 28 young 
Americans who have been killed in Iraq since April 16. This brings to 
859 the number of service members either from California or based in 
California that have been killed while serving our country in Iraq. 
This represents 20 percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq.

PO1 Cherie L. Morton, 40, died April 20 in Galali, Muharraq, Bahrain. 
Petty Officer 1st Class Morton was assigned to Naval Security Force, 
Naval Support Activity Bahrain. She was from Bakersfield, CA.

SGT Guadalupe Cervantes Ramirez, 26, died on April 23, 2008, in Camp 
Arifjan, Kuwait, of injuries suffered in a vehicle incident. Sergeant 
Cervantes Ramirez was assigned to the 2nd Transportation Company, 
National Training Center Support Brigade, Fort Irwin, CA. He was from 
Fort Irwin, CA.

SPC William T. Dix, 32, died April 27 at Camp Buehring, Kuwait, of 
injuries suffered in a noncombat related incident. Specialist Dix was 
assigned to the 14th Engineer Battalion, 555th Engineer Brigade, I 
Corps, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Culver City, CA.

SGT Merlin German, 22, died April 11 at Brooke Army Medical Center, 
San Antonio, TX, from wounds he suffered while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar province, Iraq, on February 22, 2005. Sergeant 
German was assigned to the 5th Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment, 1st 
Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA, 
while deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Sergeant German's 
parent unit was the 2nd Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA. He was 
medically retired September 28, 2007, as a result of his injuries.

SSG Bryan E. Bolander, 26, died April 29 in Baghdad from wounds 
suffered when his vehicle struck an improvised explosive device. Staff 
Sergeant Bolander was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 502nd Infantry 
Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, Air 
Assault, Fort Campbell, KY. He was from Bakersfield, CA.

SGT Glen E. Martinez, 31, died May 2 in Al Anbar province, Iraq, 
supporting combat operations. Sergeant Martinez was assigned to the 
Combat Logistics Battalion 1, Combat Logistics Regiment 1, 1st Marine 
Logistics Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

LCpl James F. Kimple, 21, died May 2 in Al Anbar province, Iraq, 
supporting combat operations. Lance Corporal Kimple was assigned to the 
Combat Logistics Battalion 1, Combat Logistics Regiment 1, 1st Marine 
Logistics Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

CPL Miguel A. Guzman, 21, died May 2 in Al Anbar province, Iraq, 
supporting combat operations. Corporal Guzman was assigned to the 
Combat Logistics Battalion 1, Combat Logistics Regiment 1, 1st Marine 
Logistics Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA. He 
was from Norwalk, CA.

LCpl Casey L. Casanova, 22, died May 2 in Al Anbar province, Iraq, 
supporting combat operations. Lance Corporal Casanova was assigned to 
the Combat Logistics Battalion 1, Combat Logistics Regiment 1, 1st 
Marine Logistics Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, 
CA.

PFC Aaron J. Ward, 19, died May 6 in Al Anbar, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his unit came under small arms fire while conducting 
cordon and search operations. Private First Class Ward was assigned to 
the 170th Military Police Company, 504th Military


Police Battalion, 42nd Military Police Brigade, Fort Lewis, WA. He was 
from San Jacinto, CA.

SPC Mary J. Jaenichen, 20, died May 9 in Iskandariyah, Iraq, of a 
noncombat related injury. Specialist Jaenichen was assigned to the 
Brigade Troops Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry 
Division, Fort Stewart, GA. She was from Temecula, CA.

SSG Frank J. Gasper, 25, died May 25 in Najaf, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive device. 
Staff Sergeant Gasper was assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 10th Special 
Forces Group, Fort Carson, CO. He was from Merced, CA.

SGT Cody R. Legg, 23, died June 4 in Tikrit, Iraq, of wounds suffered 
in Sharqat, Iraq, when his unit was attacked by enemy forces using 
small arms fire and hand grenades. Sergeant Legg was assigned to the 
1st Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 10th 
Mountain Division, Light Infantry, Fort Drum, NY. He was from 
Escondido, CA.

SGT John D. Aragon, 22, died June 12 in Kadamiyah, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive device. 
Sergeant Aragon was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 75th Cavalry 
Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, Air 
Assault, Fort Campbell, KY. He was from Antioch, CA.

SSG Du Hai Tran, 30, died June 20 in Baqubah, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his unit 
while on patrol during combat operations. Staff Sergeant Tran was 
assigned to the Fires Squadron, 2nd Stryker Cavalry Regiment, Vilseck, 
Germany. He was from Reseda, CA.

SGT Alejandro A. Dominguez, 24, died June 25 in Mosul, Iraq, from 
wounds suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive 
device on June 24. Sergeant Dominguez was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 
3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, Fort Hood, TX. He was from San Diego, CA.

LCpl Jeffery S. Stevenson, 20, died July 13 from a nonhostile 
incident in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Lance Corporal Stevenson was 
assigned to the 7th Engineer Support Battalion, 1st Marine Logistics 
Group, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SSG Faoa L. Apineru, 31, died July 2, 2007, from wounds sustained 
while supporting combat operations in Al Anbar province, Iraq. Staff 
Sergeant Apineru was assigned to Headquarters Company, 23rd Marines, 
4th Marine Division, Marine Forces Reserve. He was wounded on May 15, 
2005. After his death on July 2, 2007, the initial medical examiner 
concluded that Staff Sergeant Apineru did not die from injuries 
sustained during his deployment, but a subsequent opinion by the Armed 
Forces Institute of Pathology indicated that his death was a result of 
his injuries sustained in Iraq. He was from Yorba Linda, CA.

PFC Jennifer L. Cole, 34, died August 2 in Bayji, Iraq, of injuries 
suffered in a noncombat related incident. Private First Class Cole was 
assigned to the 426th Support Battalion, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st 
Airborne Division, Air Assault, Fort Campbell, KY. She was from 
American Canyon, CA.

CPL Adam T. McKiski, 21, died August 7 while supporting combat 
operations in Anbar Province, Iraq. Corporal McKiski was assigned to 
the 1st Maintenance Battalion, 1st Marine Logistics Group, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

CPL Stewart S. Trejo, 25, died August 7 while supporting combat 
operations in Anbar Province, Iraq. Corporal Trejo was assigned to the 
1st Maintenance Battalion, 1st Marine Logistics Group, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

PVT Janelle F. King, 23, died August 14 in Baghdad, Iraq, of injuries 
suffered in a non-combat related incident. Private King was assigned to 
the 115th Combat Support Hospital, Fort Polk, LA. She was from Merced, 
CA.

COL Michael R. Stahlman, 45, died October 5 from injuries sustained 
in a July 31 nonhostile incident in Anbar province, Iraq. Colonel 
Stahlman was assigned to Headquarters Battalion, Marine Corps Air 
Ground Combat Center, Twentynine Palms, CA.

SGT Michael K. Clark, 24, died October 7 in Mosul, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when he encountered small arms fire while on dismounted 
patrol. Sergeant Clark was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 8th Infantry 
Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Carson, 
CO. He was from Sacramento, CA.

LCpl Stacy A. Dryden, 22, died October 19 from injuries sustained in 
a nonhostile incident in Anbar province, Iraq. Lance Corporal Dryden 
was assigned to 1st Supply Battalion, 1st Marine Logistics Group, Camp 
Pendleton, CA.

SPC Armando A. De La Paz, 21, died November 13 in Baghdad, of 
injuries sustained during a vehicle rollover. Specialist De La Paz was 
assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 29th Field Artillery Regiment, 3rd 
Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Carson, CO. He was 
from Riverside, CA.

SGT Jose Regalado, 23, died November 12 in Mosul, Iraq, when an Iraqi 
Army soldier wearing a uniform approached him and opened fire. Sergeant 
Regalado was assigned to the 3rd Squadron, 3rd Armored Cavalry 
Regiment, Fort Hood, TX. He was from Los Angeles, CA.

CPL Aaron M. Allen, 24, died November 14 while supporting combat 
operations in Anbar Province, Iraq. Corporal Allen was assigned to 1st 
Battalion, 4th Marines, 1st Marine Division, Camp Pendleton, CA. He was 
from Buellton, CA.

I would also like to pay tribute to the 29 soldiers from California 
who have died while serving our country in Operation Enduring Freedom 
since April 16.

Senior Airman Jonathan A.V. Yelner, 24, died April 29 near Bagram, 
Afghanistan, of wounds suffered when his vehicle encountered an 
improvised explosive device. Senior Airman Yelner was assigned to the 
28th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron, Ellsworth Air Force Base, South 
Dakota. He was from Lafayette, CA.

SFC David L. McDowell, 30, died on April 29, in Bastion, Afghanistan, 
of injuries sustained when he received small arms fire. Sergeant First 
Class McDowell was assigned to C Company, 2nd Battalion, 75th Ranger 
Regiment, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Ramona, CA.

SPC Christopher Gathercole, 21, died May 26 in Ghazni, Afghanistan, 
of wounds suffered from small arms fire during combat operations. 
Specialist Gathercole was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 75th Ranger 
Regiment, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Santa Rosa, CA.

PFC Chad M. Trimble, 29, died May 28, near Gardez, Afghanistan, of 
wounds suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive 
device. Private First Class Trimble was assigned to the 1st Squadron, 
61st Cavalry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne 
Division, Air Assault, Fort Campbell, KY. He was from West Covina, CA.

SFC David Nunez, 27, died May 29 in Shewan, Afghanistan, of wounds 
suffered when he encountered small arms fire while conducting combat 
operations. Sergeant First Class Nunez was assigned to the 3rd 
Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from Los 
Angeles, CA.


PFC Michael Robert Patton, 19, died June 14 while supporting combat 
operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Private First Class Patton 
was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

PFC Dawid Pietrek, 24, died June 14 while supporting combat 
operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Private First Class Pietrek 
was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

LCpl Layton Bradly Crass, 22, died June 14 while supporting combat 
operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Lance Corporal Crass was 
assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

SGT Michael Toussiant-Hyle Washington, 20, died June 14 while 
supporting combat operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Sergeant 
Washington was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

Hospitalman Marc A. Retmier, 19, died June 18 as a result of wounds 
suffered from an enemy rocket attack in northern Paktika Province, 
Afghanistan. Hospitalman Retmier was assigned to Provincial 
Reconstruction Team Sharana in Afghanistan. He was from Hemet, CA.



LCpl Andrew Francis Whitacre, 21, died June 19 while conducting 
combat operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Lance Corporal 
Whitacre was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

CPT Eric Daniel Terhune, 34, died June 19 while conducting combat 
operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Captain Terhune was assigned 
to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

Hospitalman Dustin Kelby Burnett, 19, died June 20 while conducting 
combat operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Hospitalman Burnett 
was assigned to First Marine Division Detachment, Twentynine Palms, CA.

SGT Matthew E. Mendoza, 24, died June 20 while conducting combat 
operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Sergeant Mendoza was 
assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

SGT Ryan J. Connolly, 24, died June 24 in Khogyani, Afghanistan, of 
wounds suffered when his vehicle struck a suspected landmine. Sergeant 
Connolly was assigned to the 173rd Special Troops Battalion, 173rd 
Airborne Brigade Combat Team, Bamberg, Germany. He was from Vacaville, 
CA.

SSGT Christopher D. Strickland, 25, died June 25, while supporting 
combat operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Staff Sergeant 
Strickland was assigned to 1st Marine Logistics Group, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT James M. Treber, 24, died June 29 in Khosrow-E Sofla, 
Afghanistan, from injuries sustained when his vehicle rolled into a 
canal. Sergeant Treber was assigned to 1st Battalion, 7th Special 
Forces Group, Airborne, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from Imperial Beach, CA.

SGT Israel Garcia, 24, died July 13 in Wanat, Afghanistan, of wounds 
suffered when his outpost was attacked by small arms fire and rocket 
propelled grenades from enemy forces. Sergeant Garcia was assigned to 
the 2nd Battalion, 503d Infantry Regiment, Airborne, 173rd Airborne 
Brigade Combat Team, Vicenza, Italy. He was from Long Beach, CA.

PFC Ivan I. Wilson, 22, died July 21 while supporting combat 
operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Private First Class Wilson 
was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA. He was from 
Clearlake, CA.

PFC Jair De Jesus Garcia, 29, died August 1 in Chowkay Valley, 
Afghanistan, from wounds sustained when his vehicle encountered an 
improvised explosive device. Private First Class Garcia was assigned to 
the 6th Squadron, 4th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st 
Infantry Division, Fort Hood, TX. He was from Chatsworth, CA.

LCpl Jacob J. Toves, 27, died August 14 while supporting combat 
operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Lance Corporal Toves was 
assigned to the 3rd Combat Engineer Battalion, 3rd Marine Division, III 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Okinawa, Japan. He was from Grover Beach, 
CA.

SPC Marques I. Knight, 24, died September 6 in Aliabad, Afghanistan, 
of wounds suffered when he received small arms fire while on dismounted 
patrol. Specialist Knight was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 26th 
Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division, Fort 
Hood, TX. He was from San Juan Capistrano, CA.

SGT Jerome C. Bell Jr., 29, died September 19 while supporting combat 
operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Sergeant Bell was assigned 
to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

CPT Bruno G. Desolenni, 32, died September 20 in Kandahar, 
Afghanistan, of wounds sustained when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his vehicle. Captain Desolenni was assigned to the Joint 
Forces Headquarters, Element Training Team, Oregon Army National Guard. 
He was from Crescent City, CA.

Cpl Jason A. Karella, 20, died October 9 while supporting combat 
operations in Farah Province, Afghanistan. Corporal Karella was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

SGT Federico G. Borjas, 33, died October 16 in Bermel District 
Center, Afghanistan, of wounds suffered from small arms fire during a 
dismounted patrol. Sergeant Borjas was assigned to 416th Civil Affairs 
Battalion, 351st Civil Affairs Command, San Diego, CA. He was from San 
Diego, CA.

LCpl San Sim, 23, died October 22 while supporting combat operations 
in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Lance Corporal Sim was assigned to 
1st Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary 
Force, Twentynine Palms, CA. He was from Santa Ana, CA.

Cpl Adrian Robles, 21, died October 22 while supporting combat 
operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Corporal Robles was 
assigned to 2nd Battalion, 7th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I 
Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

1LT Trevor J. Yurista, 32, died October 27 while supporting combat 
operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. First Lieutenant Yurista 
was assigned to 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.












Staff Sergeant Timothy H. Walker
