---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8143f7be9854731ad504a7540a5f9927`
`Mr. CARPER — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise today to reflect on the life and 
service of Army SGT Keith E. Fiscus. Keith epitomized the best of our 
country's brave men and women who fought to free Iraq and to secure a 
new democracy in the Middle East. He exhibited unwavering courage, 
dutiful service to his country, and above all else, honor. In the way 
he lived his life--and how we remember him--Keith reminds each of us 
just how good we can be.

Keith was born to Pamela and Darrell Fiscus in Glendale, CA, in 1980. 
His family moved to Townsend, DE, in 1998. He was the second oldest of 
four children and is survived by an 18-year-old brother, Jordan, and 
two sisters, Korrie, 16, and Dena, 28. My heart goes out to each of 
them.

Keith finished his senior year at Glasgow High School in Newark, DE, 
and graduated in 1998. After his graduation, Keith took a job in the 
produce department at Genuardi's supermarket in Glasgow, DE, and then 
worked as a customer service representative for a major credit card 
company. He enrolled in business classes at Delaware Technical & 
Community College but soon decided that his interests didn't include 
sitting behind a desk in an office or classroom.

Inspired by his grandparents' service in the Armed Forces, Keith 
joined the Army in 2002. After graduating from boot camp, he was 
assigned to the 1st Battalion, 27th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade, 
25th Infantry Division based out of Schofield Barracks in Hawaii. He 
was deployed to Iraq and served with distinction for the duration of 
his 14-month tour.

While serving in Iraq, Keith decided to reenlist in the Army. After 
returning to the States, Keith received training on how to identify and 
disarm explosives. Keith volunteered to serve a second tour of duty in 
Iraq and was deployed again in August of 2006. He was scheduled to 
return home in February of 2007.

On December 2, 2006, Keith was serving as a machine gunner for an 
explosive ordinance disposal team on their way to clear a suspected 
roadside bomb near the city of Taji. An improvised explosive device was 
triggered near the humvee he was riding in, and Sergeant Fiscus was 
killed instantly.

Contrary to his tough-looking tattoos and love of heavy metal music, 
Keith was a fun-loving, caring, and sensitive young man. He was 
described by those that knew him as a hopeless romantic who loved the 
camaraderie of the Army and spending time with family and friends. He 
was also an avid golfer and fisherman.

Sergeant Fiscus was also an excellent soldier. He was an expert 
rifleman who received numerous recognitions during his Army career: 
Army Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign 
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, 
Overseas Service Ribbon, and Combat Infantryman Badge. The Purple Heart 
and the Bronze Star were awarded posthumously.

I rise today to commemorate Keith, to celebrate his life, and to 
offer his family our support and our deepest sympathy on their tragic 
loss.














Specialist Travis Vaughn
