# None
## `8151e70db2fbd1817eae1364567d3bef`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 1 August 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3162, which 
represents the agreement between the House and Senate on the ''Honest 
Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007,'' which the House passed in 
May 2007. With the adoption of this legislation, we begin to make good 
on our pledge to ''drain the swamp'' and end the ''culture of 
corruption'' that pervaded the 109th Congress.

It is critically important that we adopt the reforms contained in 
H.R. 3162 because Americans are paying for the cost of corruption in 
Washington with skyrocketing prices at the pump, spiraling drug costs, 
and the waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq 
for Administration cronies.

The cozy relationship between Congress and special interests we saw 
during the 109th resulted in serious lobbying scandals, such as those 
involving Republican super lobbyist Jack Abramoff. In this scandal, 
several congressional staff members and a former congressman pleaded 
guilty to conspiring to commit fraud--accepting all-expense-paid trips 
to play golf in Scotland and accepting meals, sports and concert 
tickets, while providing legislative favors for Abramoff's clients.

But that is not all. Under the previous Republican leadership of the 
House, lobbyists were permitted to write legislation, 15-minute votes 
were held open for hours, and entirely new legislation was sneaked into 
signed conference reports in the dead of night.

The American people registered their disgust at this sordid way of 
running the Congress last November and voted for reform. Democrats 
picked up 30 seats held by Republicans and exit polls indicated that 74 
percent of voters cited corruption as an extremely important or a very 
important issue in their choice at the polls.

Ending the culture of corruption and delivering ethics reform is one 
of the top priorities of the new majority of House Democrats. That is 
why, as our first responsibility in fulfilling the mandate given the 
new majority by the voters, Democrats are offering an aggressive ethics 
reform package. We seek to end the excesses we witnessed under the 
Republican leadership and to restore the public's trust in the Congress 
of the United States.

Mr. Speaker, Federal lobbying is a multi-billion dollar industry, and 
spending to influence members of Congress and executive branch 
officials has increased greatly in the last decade. While the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act of 1995, LDA, is one of the main laws to promote 
transparency and accountability in the federal lobbying industry and 
represents the most comprehensive overhaul of the laws regulating 
lobbying practices in 50 years prior to 1995, it falls far short of a 
complete solution, as even recognized by its staunchest supporters, 
during congressional hearings on the issue.

The need for further reform was highlighted by a major study of the 
federal lobbying industry published in April 2006 by the Center for 
Public Integrity, which found that since 1998, lobbyists have spent 
nearly $13 billion to influence members of Congress and other federal 
officials on legislation and regulations. The same study found that in 
2003 alone, lobbyists spent $2.4 billion, with expenditures for 2004 
estimated to grow to at least $3 billion. This is roughly twice as much 
as the already vast amount that was spent on federal political 
campaigns in the same time period.


The LDA contains a number of measures to help prevent inappropriate 
influence in the lobbying arena and promote sunshine on lobbying 
activities. However, according to the Center's study, compliance with 
these requirements has been less than exemplary.

For example, the report found: during the last six years, 49 out of 
the top 50 lobbying firms have failed to file one or more of the 
required forms; nearly 14,000 documents that should have been filed are 
missing; almost 300 individuals, companies, or associates have lobbied 
without being registered; more than 2,000 initial registrations were 
filed after the legal deadline; and in more than 2,000 instances, 
lobbyists never filed the required termination documents at all.

Under the LDA, the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House 
must notify in writing any lobbyist or lobbying firm of noncompliance 
with registration and reporting requirements, and they must also notify 
the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia of the noncompliance if 
the lobbyist or lobbying firm fails to respond within 60 days of its 
notification. It appears that until very recently, however, these cases 
of noncompliance were not being referred to the Department of Justice 
for enforcement. It is also clear that the infractions that are 
actually being investigated by the Secretary or the Clerk do not 
coincide with the extent of noncompliance, and it is entirely unknown 
whether enforcement actions are being effectively pursued by the 
Department of Justice. Clearly, further reform is needed.

Mr. Speaker, I commend the leadership of Speaker Pelosi and her team 
for the excellent work in preparing this lobbying reform package. The 
reforms contained in the package are tough but not nearly too tough for 
persons elected to represent the interests of the 600,000 constituents 
in their congressional districts. Indeed, similar bipartisan lobbying 
and government reform proposals were debated and passed by the House 
and Senate in 2006 but the Congress failed to reconcile the two 
versions.

Mr Speaker, I support H.R. 3162 because it closes the ''Revolving 
Door,'' requires full public disclosure of lobbying activities, 
provides tougher enforcement of lobbying restrictions, and requires 
increased disclosure.

H.R. 3162 closes the ''Revolving Door'' by retaining the current one-
year ban on lobbying by former members and senior staff and requires 
them to notify the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct within 
three days of


engaging in any negotiations or reaching any agreements regarding 
future employment or salary. The members' notification will be publicly 
disclosed.

The bill also requires members and senior staff to recuse themselves 
during negotiations regarding future employment from any matter in 
which there is a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation also ends the ''K Street Project,'' 
made notorious during the 12 years of Republican control of Congress. 
Members and senior staff are prohibited from influencing employment 
decisions or practices of private entities for partisan political gain. 
Violators of this provision will be fined or imprisoned for a term of 
up to 15 years.


Second, H.R. 3162 requires full public disclosure of lobbying 
activities by strengthening lobbying disclosure requirements. It does 
this by mandating quarterly, rather than semiannual, disclosure of 
lobbying reports. It covers more lobbyists by reducing the contribution 
thresholds from $5,000 to $2,500 in income from lobbying activities and 
from $20,000 to $10,000 in total lobbying expenses. It also reduces the 
contribution threshold of any organization other than client that 
contributes to lobbying activities to $5000, $10,000 under current law.

Third, the legislation increases disclosure of lobbyists' 
contributions to lawmakers and entities controlled by lawmakers, 
including contributions to members' charities, to pay the cost of 
events or entities honoring members, contributions intended to pay the 
cost of a meeting or a retreat, and contributions disclosed under FECA 
relating to reports by conduits.

Fourth, the bill requires the House Clerk to provide public Internet 
access to lobbying reports within 48 hours of electronic filing and 
requires that the lobbyist/employing firm provide a certification or 
disclosure report attesting that it did not violate House/Senate gift 
ban rules. And it makes it a violation of the LDA for a lobbyist to 
provide a gift or travel to a member/officer or employee of Congress 
with knowledge that the gift or travel is in violation of House/Senate 
rules.

Transparency is increased by the requirements in the bill that 
lobbyists to disclose past Executive and Congressional employment and 
that lobbying reports be filed electronically and maintained in a 
searchable, downloadable database. For good reason, the bill also 
requires disclosure of lobbying activities by certain coalitions but 
expressly exempts 501(c) and 527 organizations.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3162 increases civil penalties for 
violation of the Lobby Disclosure Act from $50,000 to $200,000 and adds 
a criminal penalty of up to 5 years for knowing and corrupt failure to 
comply. Finally, the bill requires members to prohibit their staff from 
having any official contact with the member's spouse who is a 
registered lobbyist or is employed or retained by such an individual 
and establishes a public database of member Travel and Personal 
Financial Disclosure Forms.

Mr. Speaker, it is wholly fitting and proper that at the beginning of 
this new 110th Congress, the Members of this House, along with all of 
the American people, paid fitting tribute to the late President Gerald 
R. ''Jerry'' Ford, a former leader in this House, who did so much to 
heal our Nation in the aftermath of Watergate. Upon assuming the 
Presidency, President Ford assured the Nation: ''My fellow Americans, 
our long national nightmare is over.'' By his words and deeds, 
President Ford helped turn the country back on the right track. He will 
be forever remembered for his integrity, good character, and commitment 
to the national interest.

This House today faces a similar challenge. To restore public 
confidence in this institution we must commit ourselves to being the 
most honest, most ethical, most responsive, most transparent Congress 
in history. We can end the nightmare of the last 6 years by putting the 
needs of the American people before those of the lobbyists and special 
interests. To do that, we can start by adopting by H.R. 3162.