---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8166ab4b193f17f5d04bf47348b17af1`
`Mr. DODD — 22 October 2007`

---

 Mr. DODD. Madam President. I rise to fulfill again my most 
painful obligation as Senator: to mark the life of another young 
Connecticut man who died in our country's service. SGT Jason Lantieri 
was killed this month in Iraq.

Sergeant Lantieri's life was, up to the last moment, a story of 
moving success. At the age of 11, he was a troubled child from a broken 
home, lost in the foster care system. But two caring foster parents 
helped to transform him: Jon and Kathy Miller, of Killingworth, who 
took Jason into their home and became a new mother and father to him. 
''We just decided to go and ask if he could become part of our 
family,'' Kathy Miller recalled. It wasn't long before Jason was 
succeeding in school, serving on the student council, and competing in 
three sports. In his obituary, the Hartford Courant called it ''a life 
redeemed.''

Sergeant Lantieri went on to earn a business degree, but, like so 
many energetic young men before him, signed up with the Army for a 
chance at travel and adventure. By all accounts, he had his wish, from 
Alaska to Europe to Iraq with a transportation unit in the 25th 
Infantry Division. Still, with all those who choose to serve in this 
time of war, Sergeant Lantieri knew that wearing his country's uniform 
meant risking his life. A video posted on his Web page shows how he 
confronted danger with a sardonic sense of humor: Below footage of an 
explosion in the desert, his caption reads, ''Just another day at the 
office.''

In a war zone, death can come in any daily routine. Its constant 
presence means that in war there is no routine and that is just another 
sacrifice soldiers make for our sake. Last week, a transportation 
accident crushed Jason between two vehicles. He was 25.

The two strangers he came to call Mom and Dad have a last record of 
his voice--a call from Iraq on their answering machine. The message is 
still there, and I imagine it always will be. They also have the 
military photos that show Jason in his uniform and beret, with a firm, 
unsmiling face. ''I hardly recognize that person,'' said Kathy Miller. 
''That's just a little piece of Jason. It's not the whole picture of 
who he is.''

She remembers his class-clowning, his toughness on the soccer field, 
and his mischieviousness playing with her grandchildren--qualities that 
aren't in the picture.

The tragedy is that Sergeant Lantieri has lost his whole life; the


class clown and the grown foster son are dead along with the soldier. 
We can only answer that tragedy with grief and with gratitude, pledging 
to remember his rich life in its entirety.
