---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `8173de84b670ec87a95c50e22b675cef`
`Mr. DURBIN — 6 March 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in the Spring of 2007, I met a 27-year-old 
Army Sergeant named Eric


Edmondson. Eric was injured while serving in Iraq. During surgery to 
treat his injuries, his brain was deprived of oxygen for a period of 
time, and is now seriously disabled. It has been my honor to get to 
know Eric and his family. I am humbled and inspired by their shared 
struggle, pain, triumph and sacrifice as they have worked to help Eric 
recover as much mobility and independence as possible.

Today I am introducing the Veteran and Servicemember Family Caregiver 
Support Act of 2009, along with several other Senators. This bill 
proposes a program that would provide technical, financial and 
practical support for families like Eric's, families who are now caring 
for a veteran or a returning servicemember whose disability requires 
institutional or home-based care.

The first version of this bill was introduced in the last Congress by 
then-Senator Hillary Clinton. She already knew what many of us are now 
learning. Families all across the country are figuring out how best to 
care for returning servicemembers and veterans who are coming home with 
serious disabilities. We are recognizing that these families need more 
support than what most of them are finding.

This bill lays out a strong family caregiver support program. The 
program is for those seriously disabled veterans and servicemembers who 
have a family member willing and able to provide care at home. We want 
to recognize that sacrifice, which probably involved a significant loss 
of income, and the value of the care they are providing. So the program 
addresses four key concerns--training and certification, payment for 
services, respite care, and, finally, mental health and social support 
services.

The first step is to provide training for those family members who 
become a primary caregiver for a seriously disabled veteran or 
servicemember. It is common for family members to have some informal 
training, but we should formalize that. Figure out what training 
caregivers need and make sure they receive it. From changing burn wound 
dressings to wheelchair transfers, caregivers need the skills and 
knowledge to offer high quality, home-based care. The bill I am 
introducing today calls on VA and DoD to develop and offer training and 
a certification program for family caregivers.

We also need to pay for the services these trained and certified 
family caregivers provide. Amount of payment would be determined by the 
VA and DoD based on the amount and level of care required for each 
participant. Costs would be paid by VA, with DoD reimbursement to VA 
for services benefiting servicemembers. It is only fair that care 
provided by family caregivers, care for which the government would 
otherwise be responsible, is acknowledged. Qualified family caregivers 
are often forgoing other income, even while providing a service of real 
value.

Respite care is another important part of this program. Caregivers 
need time off. They deserve time off. VA and DoD have respite care 
programs, but they are underutilized because the programs are 
inflexible, waiting lists are long, or providers are not available 
nearby. That is especially true in more rural areas. In this bill, we 
provide for an alternate caregiver to be trained and certified who can 
fill in for the primary caregiver as needed. We've also asked the VA to 
study further options to improve the availability of respite care.

Finally, our bill directs VA and DoD to provide mental health 
services to family caregivers when those needs are related to the 
provision of care. For example, depression is almost twice as likely 
among caregivers as it in the general population. The caregiver program 
would provide an assessment of the caregiver's needs and referral to 
relevant services if necessary.

Members of the armed services came forward and served when duty 
called. As many as 6,800 of them have come home from the Afghanistan 
and Iraq wars unable to perform daily functions or live independently. 
Now it is time for the U.S. to come forward with support for those who 
are able to live at home because a family member is willing to provide 
the care they need.

The sacrifices these family caregivers make are substantial, and can 
greatly affect their long-term well-being. Most have to give up their 
jobs outside the home, relinquishing health and retirement benefits and 
future earning power in the process. It is not uncommon for a family to 
move across the country in search of the best care for their injured 
loved one. We owe it to them to provide assistance as they care for 
their loved ones, who are our heroes.

A strong family caregiver support program also makes good economic 
sense. Right now, families are providing the care that VA and DoD have 
a responsibility to provide, but the families bear the cost. Because 
these families are providing care without payment or support, the costs 
of the care is made invisible to VA and DoD.

The VA recognizes the economic benefits of providing preventive care 
to veterans, and acknowledges that informal caregivers are an important 
source of providing such care. A recent VA study notes that ''providing 
supportive services to caregivers will most likely help reduce the care 
costs for patients . . . as they will require less use of emergency 
care, institutionalization, and VHA services, while also improving 
caregiver and patient outcomes.'' Finally, support programs for 
caregivers keep the veteran with his or her family, delaying the day VA 
will be obligated to provide more expensive institutional care.

In testimony before Congress in 2007, Donna Shalala, as co-chair of 
the Dole-Shalala Commission, stated: ''many families are caring for 
their injured servicemember at home--and many of these servicemembers 
have complex injuries. These families, forced into stressful new 
situations, don't need more anxiety and confusion, they need support. 
Families are unprepared to provide 24/7 care. Those that try, wear out 
quickly.''

We have an opportunity to step up to ensure that veterans can have 
the best care possible in return for their service to our country. Many 
of those who have been seriously injured in Iraq or Afghanistan have 
families who have made enormous sacrifices to provide care. We owe 
these families a helping hand to ensure that they have the tools and 
resources they need to provide the best care for their--and our--
veterans.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.