---
---

# NATIONAL ENERGY SECURITY INTELLIGENCE ACT OF 2008
## `819ed93f86c778e6150bd14b18367b41`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I thank the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Cazayoux) for sponsoring 
this important and timely piece of legislation. Gas prices are at a 
record high at more than $4 a gallon. As a result, the price of our 
everyday needs are going up as well. Things like food and consumer 
goods need to be transported long distances before they reach store 
shelves in our neighborhoods. Moreover, high fuel costs strain our 
military operations and increase the taxpayer dollars required to move 
our troops, ships and planes around the world.

The recent escalation in prices serves as a reminder of the fact that 
the United States relies on the global energy market. About 65 percent 
of our oil is imported from other countries, and the price of oil 
fluctuates with global events. Although much of the oil we import comes 
from Canada and Mexico, our western hemisphere allies, our oil 
consumption impacts the global oil market. Many other oil-producing 
countries are hostile to the United States and are plagued by 
corruption or instability. The list of the top ten holders of oil 
reserves includes Iran, Iraq, Venezuela, Russia and Nigeria. For the 
past few years, 20 to 30 percent of Nigeria's oil output has been 
disrupted by rebel attacks; Iraq's production hovers below pre-invasion 
levels and is by no means stable; and Iran's nuclear activities have 
raised concerns around the world.

In addition, over the past few years global oil reserves have 
declined while global demand for oil has increased. Some estimate that 
global demand will increase by 46 percent over the next 25 years. If 
supply cannot keep pace with demand, the market becomes increasingly 
volatile and disruptions have a much greater effect.

We must understand the national security implications of the global 
energy market. Some countries are beginning to use energy as a leverage 
to achieve their foreign policy goals. For instance, 40 percent of the 
world's oil flows through the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf. 
Would Iran try to block the Strait of Hormuz in the event of a foreign 
policy crisis? The Intelligence Committee should analyze the impact of 
such a crisis.

The National Intelligence Assessment required by this legislation 
will allow the intelligence community to work with the best minds in 
the country, from academia to industry, much like the National 
Intelligence Assessment on global climate change. The intelligence 
community will collect data from various sources and then assess the 
geopolitical aspects.

I also note that the report required by this bill is the same one 
that would have been required in the motion offered by the ranking 
member of the Intelligence Committee last week. However, the form in 
which he offered it would have killed the entire intelligence 
authorization bill. Unfortunately, when asked, he refused to agree to 
allow the House to simply adopt this amendment on the spot which would 
have saved the bill. That forced Members into the uncomfortable 
position of choosing this report over authorizing full funding and 
other critical legislation that our intelligence agencies need to do 
their jobs of keeping us safe.

I am pleased that we passed the intelligence authorization last week, 
and I will vote to support this legislation. This report will be an 
important tool for policymakers to understand the current energy crisis 
and plan for the future. I urge my colleagues to vote for the bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.