---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `81a2c7fa041cc36eb59025fbe43aeb14`
`Mr. HODES — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to voice support 
for our troops, without reservation, and to oppose the administration's 
proposed escalation in Iraq.

We are at a turning point in American history. This Congress will 
shortly vote on a bold, clear resolution, repudiating the 
administration's failed policy in Iraq, a fiasco which has weakened our 
security, threatened our military readiness, cost thousands of lives 
and wasted billions of dollars.

I was elected to Congress from the great State of New Hampshire, 
promising return of congressional accountability and oversight. For the 
past 6 years, while Congress was under Republican control, only 12 
hearings were held on the Iraq war, but in the past 6 weeks this 
Congress has held 52 hearings.

The evidence is clear that the American people and Congress were 
misled into the war in Iraq. No weapons of mass destruction, no links 
between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda, no imminent threat to our national 
security. Our resources, effort and attention were recklessly diverted 
from the war in Afghanistan, which I supported, and which continues to 
require our vigilance and commitment.

This administration has now lost its credibility with the American 
people and with the world. To succeed in the Middle East, we must 
regain our moral compass and embrace a new direction in Iraq. The 
administration's stubborn arrogance and incompetence has magnified the 
chaos in Iraq.

Our brave troops have done everything asked of them, but the 
administration's failures in planning postconflict reconstruction and 
its shocking incompetence in management have opened the Pandora's box 
of sectarian violence and civil war.

Escalation has been tried before and it has failed before. The 
administration claims this escalation is different. The administration 
says there are benchmarks for the Iraqis, but what I have concluded 
from our hearings and briefings is that no firm benchmarks for the 
Iraqis have been set.

Clearly, the administration intends to escalate, whether or not the 
Iraqis step up. And today it is reported that they plan to send our 
troops off to Iraq without up-armored Humvees. This is deja vu all over 
again, a lack of planning, combined with a lack of candor.

Relying on a military force alone as a strategy continues the 
administration's one-legged-stool approach to foreign policy. Absent an 
Iraqi Government committed to forging a political solution to the 
country's woes and absent the infrastructure for jobs and 
reconstruction programs, the one-legged stool cannot stand. We have 
already lost billions in U.S. and Iraqi dollars to fraud, waste and 
abuse.

Baghdad is a city of some 7 million people. In a city that size, an 
injection


of 20,000 troops is too little too late. The administration talks of 
victory in Iraq. The word is meant to stir our patriotic fervor. But in 
this matter, it has, unfortunately, a sad and hollow ring.

As a result of the administration's ineptitude, we are left making 
the best out of a bad situation. We owe it to our troops, the American 
people, and the Iraqis to act wisely and strategically. The 
administration talks tough. We must be tough, smart and fearless. That 
means a new direction in Iraq.

Our first order should be to address the missing second leg of the 
stool. Replace the military surge with a diplomatic surge, convene a 
high-level team of special envoys, send them to the region, and send 
them there until the job is done.

The third leg of the stool is economic. We need a real economic 
reconstruction program, but only on strict conditions that the Iraqi 
Government step up to quell the violence and engage in reconciliation 
and oil revenue-sharing.

It is past time to remove our troops from the middle of this civil 
war, redeploy them strategically in the region to give pause to our 
foes and send the troops we need to Afghanistan where they can support 
the government and deal with the resurgent Taliban. Dealing with Iran 
is, of course, challenging; but harsh rhetoric and saber-rattling are 
counterproductive in the complex, destabilized Middle East.

The true test of leadership is facing reality and having the good 
judgment and wisdom to adapt to the reality. By passing this 
resolution, we are sending the administration an unambiguous message: 
No more blank checks. We have had enough. It is time to face the 
reality in Iraq and develop a responsible and comprehensive strategy to 
protect American security in the region.

Much has been asked of this country in the past, and the future will 
inevitably require sacrifice, but it does not require sending 20,000 
more American troops to Iraq. It does not require an escalation of this 
war. I urge my colleagues to support the resolution, and I oppose the 
administration's escalation of the war in Iraq.