---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `81a9bfe834805b28742449b694df0154`
`Mr. WYDEN — 24 January 2008`

---


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I wish to commend the distinguished 
chairman of the committee and the distinguished vice chairman because 
they have worked with me many hours on this issue. It is an 
extraordinarily important issue as it relates to the rights of 
Americans in the digital age, and I appreciate the involvement the 
chairman and vice chairman have had with me on this matter.

What this debate is all about, and I know it is very hard to follow 
the complicated legal language that is associated with this discussion, 
is the proposition that Americans ought to have the same rights 
overseas that they have inside the United States. Now, the chairman and 
the vice chairman have worked with me through the last few weeks to 
ensure that we can embed this basic proposition in this FISA 
legislation and do it in a way that is not going to have any unintended 
consequences or any impact on our national security.

I have long felt, literally for decades, that the FISA law has 
represented the ultimate balance between America's need to fight 
terrorism ferociously and to protect the constitutional rights of our 
people, and it is a balance that should not be eliminated because an 
American leaves U.S. soil. It ought to always mean something to be an 
American, and that ought to apply even outside the United States. Now, 
under current law, before conducting surveillance on an American 
citizen within the United States, the Government must establish 
probable cause before a criminal court for law enforcement cases or 
before the FISA Court for intelligence cases.

So what this means is the U.S. Government needs a court-approved 
warrant to deliberately tap the phone conversations of a person living 
in Medford, OR; or Kansas City, MO; or Arlington, VA; or anywhere else. 
This protection, however, is not extended to Americans who are outside 
the United States. So if the U.S. Government wants to deliberately tap 
the phone conversations of the same Americans on business in India or 
serving their country in Iraq, the Attorney General can personally 
approve the surveillance by making his own unilateral determination of 
probable cause.

During the Senate Intelligence Committee's consideration of 
legislation that would revise FISA, I offered the amendment that has 
been discussed by the distinguished chairman and the vice chairman to 
require the Government to secure a warrant from the FISA Court before 
targeting an American overseas.

This amendment was cosponsored by our colleagues, the Senator from 
Wisconsin, Mr. Feingold, and the Senator from Rhode Island, Mr. 
Whitehouse. It was, as the chairman of the committee has noted, 
approved on a bipartisan basis. It has largely been incorporated into 
the Senate Judiciary Committee approach as well.

Since then the administration has raised concerns about this issue. 
There have been concerns raised by several others. And we have sought 
to address those through many hours of negotiations so that we can make 
sure in the digital age, when Americans travel so frequently, we are 
not seeing their rights go in the trash can when they travel outside 
U.S. soil.

We have almost reached a final agreement on this important issue, but 
I wanted to take just a minute. I see the distinguished chairman on the 
Senate floor and the distinguished vice chairman. I would like to just 
outline very briefly for them what my remaining concern is because my 
hope is we can work this out.

I would also like to say that throughout this day the Justice 
Department, as we have been looking at it, has been talking to our 
staffs as well. I think they have been very cooperative also.

The issue that is outstanding, I would say to my colleagues, is the 
managers' amendment does not require the Government to specify what 
facilities it is targeting, even in situations where the Government has 
historically been required to do so. So one automatically thinks of a 
hypothetical kind of situation that goes something like this: Under 
current law, the Government has to specify, for example, that it is 
going to do surveillance on an apartment dweller on a military base 
overseas. That is something that has to be approved with specificity, 
and that is required under current law.

What I am troubled about is the hypothetical possibility. That is 
what we are dealing with now, hypothetical possibilities. And if the 
language is not written carefully with respect to facilities--and my 
concern is that it has not yet been dealt with adequately--the 
Government could, in effect, do surveillance on that military base for 
all of the apartment dwellers in the building or conceivably all of the 
people on the military base at large.

Now, my friend, the distinguished vice chairman of the committee, 
clearly does not want to see that happen, nor does the chairman of the 
full committee. So what I have been trying to do, and had some 
discussion with the Justice Department about, is to try to persuade the 
Justice Department to take the precise language they have found 
acceptable in title I and move it over to the title VII that we have 
all been working on in a cooperative kind of fashion. It deals with 
what is called the after acquisition issue, to again make sure we are 
able to stay on top of the serious threats our country faces but not at 
the same time overreach and sweep all kinds of individuals like, say, 
an apartment dweller on a military base oversees into a surveillance 
program.

So I am going to continue, and I want to make this clear to the vice 
chairman who is on the Senate floor, and the chairman who has had to 
leave the floor for a few minutes, that I want to continue to work with 
them. This is an important issue. In the digital age, it makes no sense 
for Americans' rights and freedoms to be limited by physical geography. 
That is what we got bipartisan support for in the Intelligence 
Committee. Suffice it to say, there is a history of support for this 
kind of approach. During the initial consideration of the first FISA 
Act back in 1978, many Members of Congress argued for the inclusion of 
protections for Americans overseas.

All of the committees that debated the bill noted the significance of 
the issue. But at that time there was a judgment made that it was best 
to deal with this matter by separate legislation.

For example, the Senate Intelligence Committee in the 1978 report on 
FISA stated:




 Further legislation may be necessary to protect the rights 


 of Americans abroad from the improper electronic surveillance 


 by their Government.


It seems to me, 30 years later, it is time to take action. So we are 
going to continue these discussions. I want to


express my appreciation to the vice chairman of the Intelligence 
Committee and his staff. They have put many hours into this matter 
working with us and clearly have sought to make sure that we can 
modernize this particular part of the FISA statute, and do it without 
what all of us have said are the unintended consequences or potential 
impact on national security.

I think we are there once we deal with this remaining issue. I think 
it would be very hard for any of us to explain how it is that current 
law has to specify what facilities are being targeted and then, now, in 
the name of the so-called reform approach, adopt something that 
hypothetically--again, I talk only hypothetically about it--might sweep 
some, for example, soldiers on a military base overseas into a 
surveillance program. I do not want that. The distinguished vice 
chairman of our committee, Senator Bond, does not want that.

So we are going to keep working on this matter. I see my friend from 
Missouri has indicated his desire to speak. As always, I am anxious to 
hear his thoughts on it and to work with him.

I ask unanimous consent to have a few, perhaps up to 10 additional 
minutes after the vice chairman has had a chance to address us.