# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `81ae1e20fe77f4c9762a14e546ed67e1`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to consume the remaining 
2 minutes. And I would like to say to all Members that although the 
debate tonight may have seemed uncivil at times, this is the wonderful 
process that we have here in democracy in this wonderful country, my 
adopted homeland. And my colleague from Massachusetts (Mr. Delahunt) 
and I disagree on so many issues, and yet we understand that this is 
indeed the greatest country in the world. We want peace and stability 
to all oppressed people throughout the world.

I happen to believe that the mission of the United States of America 
and the mission of the men and women who wear our Nation's uniform is a 
noble one. It is noble to stand up for freedom and for democracy; it is 
noble to fight against the radical Islamic Jihadists, who I believe do 
want to destroy our country, who want to destroy our allies like 
Israel, and want to destroy our way of life. I believe that the mission 
is just and I think that those who say we cannot stay the course, then 
how could they be against the decision of the President to send 
reinforcements? Because the decision of the President says that staying 
the course is not the right motion for the United States to make. We 
want to change the course. We want a new way forward. And the way 
forward is to send reinforcements to those brave men and women who are 
wearing proudly our Nation's uniform, who are standing in harm's way, 
and we want to give them everything that they need to succeed in their 
mission.

I have been to Iraq as have many Members and I have come to 
understand what their mission has been and they say, ''Don't just say 
we support our troops. Say you support our mission. Don't leave us out 
there in the field.''

And as I said in my previous remarks, Mr. Speaker, this is going to 
be an escalation and we will soon be cutting off funding for our troops 
and leave them in harm's way. That is a dangerous path.