# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `81b396423ac40328610da0251afb16b4`
`Mr. DREIER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this rule and 
the underlying resolution. This rule lays out a bad process, and the 
underlying legislation lays out bad policy.

This rule silences any meaningful debate on the floor by denying both 
Republicans and Democrats the right to offer any amendments or any 
substitute whatsoever.

Mr. Speaker, the Democratic leadership has attempted to mask this 
denial of real debate by providing us with 36 hours of floor time. But 
this nearly unprecedented amount of time is really little more than a 
joke; 36 hours of debate, without any opportunity whatsoever to voice 
dissent with a substitute, amounts to nothing more than 36 hours of 
talk. The American people want and deserve a real and meaningful 
debate, not empty gestures that show utter disregard for an honest and 
open discussion on this issue.

Why can't we have a discussion that explores real options and real 
solutions?

The reason is very clear, Mr. Speaker. Our Democratic colleagues have 
none.

It was bad enough when we addressed issues like stem cell research 
and minimum wage without any transparency or openness whatsoever. We 
have dealt with several important issues in a complete vacuum. But now, 
our Democratic colleagues are running roughshod over our national 
security, what is clearly the number one priority that we as a Federal 
Government, as federally elected officials, address.

We know, Mr. Speaker, that the war on terror and policy in Iraq is 
very clearly the single most important issue that will be addressed by 
the 110th Congress. It clearly ranked very high on the list of issues 
voters cared about most in last November's election. The American 
people are concerned about this war, and they want to know that their 
elected officials are developing a sound and effective policy.

So what have the Democrats offered us? What is the substance of their 
proposal in a nonbinding resolution that denies the troops the numbers 
that they need to succeed? In other words, their proposal is, in fact, 
meaningless as legislation, and it is disastrous as a policy.

Mr. Speaker, it is an admission of defeat. And it is a vote of no 
confidence in our troops. Like it or not, it is a vote of no confidence 
in our troops. Why? Because it does not provide our troops what they 
need to succeed.

Mr. Speaker, we are all opposed to the status quo in Iraq. And the 
President stood right here when he delivered his State of the Union 
message and made it very clear. He wants this war to be over, and he 
wants it to be won.

We all know about the tremendous challenges that our men and women 
are facing over in Iraq. We all know that. We hear it regularly from 
our constituents, the families, and we hear it directly from the men 
and women who are serving. We all feel very deeply about the enormity 
of the sacrifice that so many have made in service to their country. 
And we know that they look to their Commander in Chief for a strategy 
for victory.

The President has put forth his strategy, Mr. Speaker. With the 
advice and close consultation of our generals in the field, he has 
called for a surge in troop levels in order to give our Armed Forces 
the support that they need.

Why, again is he doing this? So that he can give our men and women in 
uniform, our troops, the support that they need so that they can 
succeed.

Now, Mr. Speaker, it is our role as a Congress to thoroughly vet the 
President's proposal to ensure that we develop an effective policy for 
moving forward. With this resolution, the Democrats have ignored our 
constitutional role. They have not held a single hearing on this 
resolution. They have called not one expert witness to testify for the 
record on the merits of this resolution. All that they offer is a knee-
jerk reaction against anything that the President says. Again, anything 
that the President says is wrong in the eyes of so many of our 
colleagues.

Obviously, we, Mr. Speaker, cannot be a rubber stamp for the 
executive branch, the second branch of government. But neither can we 
afford, neither can we forfeit our duty as a deliberative body to fully 
explore the plan that has been put forward and to craft sound public 
policy as it relates to this.

Mr. Speaker, in the absence of any deliberation, the Democrats have 
concocted a resolution that simply does, as I say, concede defeat. To 
the American people, it admits the Democratic leadership is devoid of 
ideas. And to the troops, it admits that they have no faith in their 
mission, no faith in the troops' mission whatsoever, because they need 
this sound strategy that has been put into effect so that we can, in 
fact, attain victory and they can be successful.

What is worse, it tries to shroud their lack of faith in our military 
with platitudes about supporting our troops. You can't claim support 
for our troops without supporting their mission, Mr. Speaker. Again, 
you cannot claim to support our troops without supporting their 
mission. It is an outrage that they would deny our men and women in 
harm's way the traditional and additional support that they need to 
succeed.

Now, Mr. Speaker, yesterday afternoon I had an opportunity to talk 
with one of my constituents, a former marine called Ed Blecksmith. Very 
tragically, 2 years ago this past November, his son, J.P. was killed in 
one of the most famous battles in the war in Iraq, the battle of 
Fallujah. Mr. Blecksmith implored me to support a policy of victory. He 
said that his son's death will have been in vain if we do not complete 
our mission. He made that very clear to me. Again, we got into this 
battle to win, and victory is, in fact, the only option. That is from 
the father of a man who was tragically killed in Iraq.

And I know that we are going to hear a wide range of views over the 
next 36 hours that have come forward from different families. And, of 
course, our hearts go out to them. But I will say that this proud 
former marine does not want his son to have died in vain, and he is 
insistent that we do all that we can to ensure that we complete this 
mission.

Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq, like all wars, has been very long, very 
difficult and very painful. It has come at a very high price, and we 
all know that it has taken its toll on the American people.

But, Mr. Speaker, we go to war to win. We go to war with a mission, 
and we dishonor the lives of those who have made the ultimate 
sacrifice, if we, in fact, abandon that mission.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution offers no hope to the troops, and it 
offers no hope to the people of this country who want to see the 
conflict in Iraq resolved so that our troops can come home to their 
families.

Mr. Speaker, they deserve better. We have a duty to offer them 
something better. We have a duty to pursue nothing less than victory.

I urge my colleagues to reject this rule, reject this resolution, 
and, instead, work together to fulfill our constitutional 
responsibility as effective legislators.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.