# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `81b47b064a1499e8a180ef598636116d`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, once again the Senate has an opportunity to 
address the situation in Iraq. This morning, we are considering a 
motion to proceed to H.R. 4156 that contains a so-called bridge fund of 
$50 billion for ongoing military operations in Iraq.

The House-passed bill provides for the President, within 30 days 
after enactment, to commence a phased redeployment of U.S. forces from 
Iraq and for the transition of those forces to specific missions: (1) 
protecting U.S. diplomatic facilities, U.S. forces, American citizens; 
(2) conducting limited training, equipping and providing logistical and 
intelligence support to Iraqi Security Forces; and (3) engaging in 
targeted counterterrorism operations against al-Qaida, al Qaida 
affiliated groups, and other terrorist organizations in Iraq. It sets a 
goal for the completion of the transition would be December 15, 2008.

Some argue that we should not identify the new more limited missions 
or commit to transition to them. The President told the American people 
on September 13 that we will transition to a new phase starting in 
December and that ''As this transition in mission takes place, our 
troops will focus on a more limited set of tasks, including 
counterterrorism operations and training, equipping, and supporting 
Iraqi forces.'' Does that sound familiar? Well, it's like the House 
passed language before us.

It is the goal of completing the transition that he objects to--
although it is a goal and not binding. Setting a goal may be too much 
for he who is unwilling to set a goal--but just don't misrepresent it 
as a fixed timetable when it is stated as a goal.

From all accounts, the surge has already produced militarily 
progress--sectarian violence in most regions of Iraq, particularly 
Baghdad, is down.

The problem is that, while the surge has at this point seen 
militarily progress, it has not accomplished its primary purpose as 
announced by President Bush last January, when he stated that its 
purpose was to give the Iraqi government ''the breathing space it needs 
to make progress in other critical areas.'' The President also said 
that ''America will hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it has 
announced.'' Well we haven't. The President statement that he ''will 
hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it has announced'' is so 
much hollow rhetoric. Those benchmarks include approving a hydrocarbon 
law; approving a de-Baathification law; completing the work of a 
Constitutional Review Committee; and holding provincial elections. 
Those commitments, made 1/1/2/ years ago, which were to have been 
completed by January 2007, have not yet been kept by the Iraqi 
political leaders despite the breathing space the surge has provided. 
As a matter of fact, the Iraqi leaders appear to be farther apart today 
than they were at the start of the surge. The Iraqi political 
leadership's response to the breathing space provided by the surge has 
been nothing less than abysmal.

One year ago this month, the Prime Minister of Iraq, Nouri al-Maliki 
himself: ''The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the cycle 
of aggravation and bloodletting of innocents are the [Iraqi] 
politicians.'' Secretary of Defense Gates agreed with that assessment 
in December of last year. President Bush agreed in January. Petraeus 
agreed in September. If everyone agrees that this is a political 
crisis, why does the administration keep focusing on military 
solutions?

General Odierno, according to yesterday's Washington Post, described 
the breathing space as a window of opportunity, which may close at any 
time. Whether the Iraqi political leaders decide to take advantage of 
this window of opportunity is of course their decision. We can't make 
that decision for them. They are a sovereign country.

But how long U.S. forces remain deployed to Iraq, and with what 
missions, and how long U.S. forces continue to fight the insurgency 
instead of the Iraqi army taking over that fight, and how long we 
continue to subject our brave and valiant servicemen and women to the 
risk of death and serious injury--those decisions are in our hands.

Secretary Gates has said that pressure on the Iraqi political leaders 
is useful. President Bush has acknowledged as much. How can Congress 
act to put pressure on the Iraqi political leaders? By setting a goal 
for the transition of the missions of U.S. forces in Iraq to the more 
supporting and less direct role. The Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group in 
their December 2006 report essentially called for a transition of the 
mission of U.S. forces in Iraq very much like that called for in this 
bill--only they called for it to take place by the first quarter of 
2008.

We need to do more than say to the Iraqis that our patience has run 
out and that they need to seize the opportunity that has been given 
them. Their dawdling will only end when they have no choice.

The bill we will hopefully vote for sets a goal for completion of a 
transition to missions the President has said were going to transition 
to. I wish it were binding but setting a timetable as a goal is better 
than silence which leaves in place the open-endedness of our current 
presence.

It is that open-ended commitment which continues to create in the 
minds of the Iraqi political leaders the false impression that their 
future is in our hands instead of theirs.

We should vote for cloture on the House passed bill and be allowed to 
vote on its substance.

I yield the floor.