---
---

# EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES TO PAKISTANI PEOPLE AFTER FLOODS
## `81d11fa03debede8e20aa95347811502`
`Mr. CHAFFETZ — 15 September 2010`

---


Mr. CHAFFETZ. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this timely 
resolution, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the raging floodwaters that have battered much of 
Pakistan since late July are at long last finally beginning to recede. 
But the challenges are no less today than they were earlier this 
summer. Indeed, if anything, they may be even greater as Pakistan and 
its friends abroad begin to assess the full magnitude of the economic 
and human costs of this devastating calamity. The heavy monsoon floods 
that struck the Indus River and its tributaries have caused enormous 
damage to the economy and the people of Pakistan.

The numbers are staggering. Nearly 20 million people have been 
affected by the floods, including millions of men, women, and children 
who have been physically displaced from their homes destroyed by the 
ravages of the rampaging waters. As one Pakistani commentator has 
noted, ''In the mounting humanitarian disaster, survivors have been 
engaged in a desperate daily struggle for food and shelter as well as a 
battle against deadly disease.''

Pakistan's already shaky economy has been dealt a body blow. Growth 
is now expected to fall by half, with widespread losses to agriculture 
and livestock. Meanwhile, the floods have also wreaked havoc on 
Pakistan's public infrastructure, with bridges and roads cut off, power 
stations shut down, and gas and petroleum supplies suspended. In this 
dire circumstance, the United States has responded generously and with 
great dispatch to assist the people of Pakistan in their hour of need. 
The executive branch has mobilized expertise and resources at the 
Departments of State, Defense, and USAID, while the private sector, 
including Pakistani-Americans, religious communities, and nongovernment 
organizations have provided impressive financial and on-the-ground 
assistance.

Meanwhile, new and formidable challenges will present themselves to 
Islamabad and its friends abroad once the full extent of Pakistan's 
rehabilitation and reconstruction needs become known.

Madam Speaker, the enormity of this tragedy for the Pakistani people 
is grounds enough to merit a robust and compassionate response by the 
United States of America and the people. Our hearts go out to the 
millions of victims whose lives have been literally uprooted by the 
havoc that accompanied this unprecedented flooding.

At the same time, we need to be mindful that Pakistan is also a close 
friend and ally. It plays a large role in the United States' strategic 
policy towards Afghanistan and the broader reaches of South and Central 
Asia. It is a country that remains engaged in a deadly struggle against 
violent extremists seeking to destabilize its already fractured 
society. It is a nuclear weapons state in which the maintenance of 
domestic stability and the success of democratic governance bear 
directly on our own homeland security. To be sure, this is an 
enormously complex relationship.

Madam Speaker, in this context it is clear that the United States 
needs to


remain deeply engaged with Pakistan and the Pakistani people as they 
recover from the ravages of this crisis, including through continued 
humanitarian aid and related forms of effective, transparent, and 
targeted assistance. I therefore support the passage of this 
resolution, and I urge my colleagues to get behind this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.