# None
## `81d5b15a9042fadb57274b36721a0882`
`Mr. INOUYE — 4 March 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Madam President, so often when Members come to the floor 
to offer simple amendments and describe their normal objectives, it 
sounds too good to be true. In my years in the Senate, I have found 
that when things are too good to be true, they usually are.

The amendment from the Senator from Alabama seeks to constrain 
discretionary spending at levels agreed to in last year's budget 
resolution. He says his intent is to cap spending for the next 4 years. 
We all understand that discretionary spending is likely to be frozen 
this year, as the President has proposed, but this proposal goes way 
beyond what the President of the United States recommended.

The President has proposed a modified spending freeze which caps 
nonsecurity-related spending. The President allows growth in Homeland 
Security, but this amendment does not assume growth. The President does 
not put a cap on emergency spending, but this amendment would. The 
President has requested more than $700 billion in this budget for 
Defense, including the cost of war. This amendment only allocates $614 
billion. Specifically, this amendment only allows $50 billion for the 
cost of overseas deployments. As such, it fails to fully cover the cost 
of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

If we want to support our men and women deployed overseas, we will 
need


to get 60 votes. Does the Senate really want national defense to be a 
hostage to a 60-vote threshold?

The critical flaw in this amendment is that it fails to do anything 
serious about deficits. It fails to address the two principal reasons 
our fiscal order is out of balance. It is a fact that the growth in the 
debt has resulted primarily from unchecked mandatory spending and 
massive tax cuts for the rich. This amendment fails to respond to 
either one of these two problems. In short, the amendment is shooting 
at the wrong target.

Moreover, this amendment also wants to raise the threshold on 
discretionary spending increases to a 67-vote approval, allowing one-
third of the Senate to dictate the majority. We already have a 
threshold of 60 votes required to increase spending for emergencies 
above the budget resolution. I, for one, cannot believe the Senate 
wants to let a mere one-third of the Senate dictate to the other two-
thirds whether an emergency is a bona fide one. This is the wrong 
direction for this institution.

Mandatory spending has run wild in the last few years. Tax cuts for 
the rich have constrained revenues. But neither tax cuts nor tax 
increases nor mandatory spending would be subject to 67 votes.

The Senator from Alabama says this approach worked to balance the 
budget in the 1990s. That is only partially correct, and it is critical 
that my colleagues understand the difference.

In the 1990s, our budget summits produced an agreement to cap 
discretionary spending. But they also decreased the mandatory spending 
and increased revenues at the same time. It was only by getting an 
agreement in all three areas at the same time that we were able to 
achieve a balanced budget.

Let's be clear. Many of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
are happy to put a cap on discretionary spending, but they do not want 
to put policies in place to make certain we have enough revenues to 
reduce the deficit.

Any honest budget analyst will tell you we will never achieve a 
balanced budget just by freezing discretionary spending. We could 
eliminate all discretionary spending increases for defense, other 
security spending, nondefense, and still not balance the budget.

Moreover, if we freeze discretionary spending without reaching an 
agreement on mandatory spending and taxes, we will find it very 
difficult to get those who do not want to address revenues to 
compromise.

I wish to remind my colleagues that the administration has just 
announced it will create a deficit reduction commission to help us get 
our financial house in order. It will look at both revenue and spending 
and find the right balance to restore fiscal discipline. They will make 
their recommendations to the Congress, and the majority leader has 
committed that the recommendations of that commission will be brought 
to the Senate for a vote.

The commission will certainly not focus solely on discretionary 
spending. If we are going to cap discretionary spending, then we must 
have similar controls on revenues and mandatory spending.

The commission has been created precisely for this reason. Rather 
than rushing to address only one small portion of the issue, the Senate 
should await the judgment of the deficit reduction commission which 
will cover all aspects of the problem.

As chairman of the Appropriations Committee, I agree everyone should 
tighten their belts. The problem with this amendment is that all the 
tightening will be done on a small portion of spending, while revenues 
and mandatory spending will still be unchecked.

Each of us was elected to serve our constituents, but we do not 
necessarily agree on the best way of doing that. We have some Members 
who want to hold down government spending, and so they do not seek 
earmarks or other program increases on behalf of their constituents. I 
do not agree with them, but I respect their views.

We have others who believe the best way to represent their 
constituents is to seek earmarks on their behalf. But those who seek 
earmarks or other programmatic increases from the committee should 
recognize that funding those programs puts pressure to increase 
government spending, not cut it.

I, for one, believe it is inconsistent to insist on getting earmarks 
for our constituents and supporting other spending increases while at 
the same time mandating that we cut spending for discretionary 
programs.

Chairman Byrd once stated on the Senate floor that sooner or later 
every Member comes to the Appropriations Committee for help.

I note that last year, the Appropriations Committee received requests 
for earmarks from more than 90 Members of this body. The Senator from 
Alabama was among those seeking earmarks. For fiscal year 2010, the 
Senator requested earmarks totaling more than $400 million.

I ask my colleagues: How is the Appropriations Committee supposed to 
live within the tight constraints of these proposed spending limits 
over 5 years and still satisfy those earmarks?

I would also point out that like many other Senators, the Senator 
from Alabama has come to the floor on several occasions to seek 
additional billions of dollars in support of building a fence along our 
southwest border. The total cost of that fence is estimated to be 
around $8 billion. It would be virtually impossible to provide the 
billions required for this fence under the terms of the amendment 
offered by the Senator.

Other Senators have supported large program increases, such as adding 
$2.5 billion to continue the C-17 program. I have strongly supported 
continuing the C-17 program, but all Members should realize if the 
Senate wants to cut discretionary spending programs, such as the C-17, 
they are unlikely to continue to be funded.

We cannot have it both ways. We simply cannot get the funds we 
believe are essential for our constituents or support our programs 
which we believe are of national importance, such as the border fence 
or the C-17, at the same time as we cut discretionary spending. Each 
and every Member should think about the need for funding for their 
States, their constituents, and the Nation before they vote on this 
amendment.

The Senate rejected this flawed plan just 6 weeks ago. This amendment 
has not gotten any better in that intervening period. It is still 
shooting at the wrong target, and it fails to address the real causes 
of our deficits and national debt. It is not the same as the 
President's plan. Therefore, I urge my colleagues, once again, to vote 
no.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.