---
---

# IN HONOR OF TAIWAN'S NATIONAL DAY
## `81d6889a3c5d9e1d33fb2db46d2f70cd`
`Mr. MARCHANT — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. MARCHANT. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the people 
of Taiwan on Republic of China's National Day.

In the last two years, Republic of China President Ma Ying-jeou has 
even further strengthened the ties between Taiwan and the United 
States. Taiwan has been reducing its trade surplus with the U.S. year 
after year and supporting our war against global terrorism. Taiwan's 
offer of humanitarian assistance to Iraq and Afghanistan has been 
generous and laudatory. I sincerely hope our mutual relations will 
continue to prosper as we are committed to the Taiwan Relations Act, 
TRA, the cornerstone of our mutual relations. In keeping with the 
spirit of the TRA, we must facilitate and complete our arms sale to 
Taiwan. Despite the reduction of tensions in the Taiwan Strait, the 
undeniable reality is that China still has over a thousand missiles 
deployed and aimed at Taiwan around the clock. Taiwan's need for 
defensive arms is greater than ever.

Madam Speaker, we should applaud Taiwan's recent rapprochement with 
its major adversary, the PRC. Yet, we should always remember a well-
armed Taiwan is the best way to maintain the status quo across the 
Taiwan Strait. To safeguard Taiwan's security, the U.S., as a longtime 
friend of Taiwan, must continue to provide necessary defensive weapons 
to Taiwan. Furthermore, we should continue to advocate for the greater 
inclusion of Taiwan in international organizations. One good example 
will be for the International Civil Aviation Organization, ICAO, to 
accept Taiwan as an observer, following the model of the World Health 
Organization, which has invited Taiwan to be its observer for two 
consecutive years.

On the occasion of its National Day, I wish Taiwan even greater 
success in the future and appreciate the continued friendship of our 
two nations.
