---
---

# None
## `81e7590b26653526bfca7c31c0b44015`
`Mr. DURBIN — 13 May 2009`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, for the last several weeks there has been 
a hue and cry from the other side of the aisle, a steady procession of 
Republican Senators, concerning the President's intention to close the 
detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. I would like to remind colleagues 
this is a problem President Obama inherited from the previous 
administration, and it is worth a few moments to review the history.

After the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, the 
Bush administration decided to set aside treaties that had served us in 
past conflicts. They sent detainees to the Guantanamo facility and 
claimed the right to seize anyone, including American citizens in the 
United States, and to hold them indefinitely without legal rights.

GEN Colin Powell, then the Secretary of State to President George W. 
Bush, objected. He said the administration's policy:




 Will reverse over a century of U.S. policy and practice . . 


 . and undermine the protections of the law of war for our own 


 troops . . . It will undermine public support among critical 


 allies, making military cooperation more difficult to 


 sustain.


GEN Colin Powell, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, then 
Secretary of State to George W. Bush. Secretary Powell's words were 
prophetic. Guantanamo became an international embarrassment for the 
United States and, sadly, tragically, a recruiting tool for terrorists 
such as al-Qaida. The Supreme Court repeatedly held that the 
administration's detention policies were illegal. As Justice Sandra Day 
O'Connor famously wrote for the majority in the Hamdi difficult 
decision:




 A state of war is not a blank check for the President.


Today, nearly 8 years after the 9/11 attacks, none of the terrorists 
who planned those attacks has been brought to justice.

After he left the Bush administration, Colin Powell spoke out 
publicly again. He said:




 Guantanamo has become a major, major problem . . . in the 


 way the world perceives America. . . . We don't need it and 


 it is causing us far more damage than any good we get for it.


That is not a quote from the ACLU. That came from GEN Colin Powell, 
former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and former Secretary of 
State. A lot of others agree. Four other former Secretaries of State, 
Republican and Democratic, have weighed in: Henry Kissinger, Madeleine 
Albright, James Baker, and Warren Christopher have all called for 
Guantanamo to be closed. As Secretary Baker explained:




 We all agreed one of the best things that could happen 


 would be to close Guantanamo, which is a very serious blot on 


 our reputation.


Former Navy general counsel Alberto Mora testified in the Senate 
Armed Services Committee, saying:




 There are serving U.S. flag-rank officers who maintain that 


 the first and second identifiable causes of U.S. combat 


 deaths in Iraq--as judged by their effectiveness in 


 recruiting insurgent fighters into combat--are respectively 


 the symbols of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo.


This was not some leftwing columnist. This is the former Navy general 
counsel, Alberto Mora.

Retired Air Force MAJ Matthew Alexander led the interrogation team 
that tracked down Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al-Qaida in 
Iraq. He used legal and traditional interrogation tactics which he 
believes are more effective than torture. Here is what Major Alexander 
said:




 I listened time and time again to foreign fighters, and 


 Sunni Iraqis, state that the number one reason they decided 


 to pick up arms and join Al Qaeda was the abuses at Abu 


 Ghraib and the authorized torture and abuse at Guantanamo 


 Bay. . . . It's no exaggeration to say that at least half of 


 our losses and casualties in that country have come at the 


 hands of foreigners who joined the fray because of our 


 program of detainee abuse.


Let me remind those listening again, the source of this quote is not 
some liberal-leaning columnist, angry at policies of the United States. 
It is MAJ Matthew Alexander from the Air Force, a man who dedicated a 
large part of his life to serving our country and risking his life in 
its defense.

I visited Guantanamo in 2006. I left with a feeling of pride and 
admiration for the soldiers and sailors serving there. They are great 
Americans doing a tough job in a very bleak climate. But they are being 
asked to carry a heavy burden created by the previous administration's 
policies, which have turned Guantanamo, sadly, into a recruiting poster 
for al-Qaida.

By 2006, even former President George W. Bush said he wanted to close 
Guantanamo Bay. He acknowledged the problem. He didn't do anything to 
solve it.

As an aside, it is interesting to note that there were no complaints 
from the Republican side of the aisle when President Bush said he 
wanted to close Guantanamo. The Republican leader of the Senate did not 
come down to the floor to object when his President made the 
suggestion. He started making a regular trip to the floor to object 
when the suggestion was made by President Obama.

President Obama has shown courage in taking on this difficult 
challenge. Within 48 hours of his inauguration, President Obama issued 
executive orders prohibiting torture, stating that Guantanamo will be 
closed within 1 year and setting up a review process for all detainees 
who are currently held at Guantanamo.

Here is what President Obama said:




 The United States intends to prosecute the ongoing struggle 


 against violence and terrorism and we are going to do so 


 vigilantly, we are going to do so effectively, and we are 


 going to do so in a manner that is consistent with our values 


 and our ideals.


At the signing of the Executive orders, the President was joined by 
16 retired admirals and generals. These distinguished Americans issued 
a statement saying:







 President Obama's actions today will restore the moral 


 authority and strengthen the national security of the United 


 States. . . . President Obama has rejected the false choice 


 between national security and our ideals. Our Nation will be 


 stronger and safer for it.


In response to the Executive orders, Republican Senators John McCain 
and Lindsey Graham said:




 We support President Obama's decision to close the prison 


 at Guantanamo, reaffirm America's adherence to the Geneva 


 Conventions, and begin a process that will, we hope, lead to 


 the resolution of all cases of Guantanamo detainees.


Keep in mind, I have just read a quote from Senator John McCain, a 
man who, of course, was President Obama's opponent in the last 
election, but a man who had a personal life experience of over 5 years 
of captivity during the Vietnam war, and a colleague of mine who has 
shown extraordinary courage and political courage and leadership in 
leading the effort to say, once and for all, that we were going to 
prohibit torture as part of America's policy.

It was Senator McCain, along with his colleague Senator Graham, who 
said these supportive things after President Obama's announcement. It 
was a strong bipartisan statement, a strong day for our country.

But now things have changed, and I do not know why. The Republicans 
are on the attack. They claim that the President does not have a plan 
to close Guantanamo, and yet at the same time they are arguing that the 
President does have a plan, which is to release terrorists into the 
United States. Imagine that. These claims are not only contradictory, 
they are preposterous.

The truth is, the President is taking the time to carefully plan for 
the closure of Guantanamo, and he is going to do it in a way that is 
consistent with America's security.

Here is how the Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair 
explained it:




 [Guantanamo] is a rallying cry for terrorist recruitment 


 and harmful to our national security, so closing it is 


 important for our national security. The guiding principles 


 for closing the center should be protecting our national 


 security, respecting the Geneva Conventions and the rule of 


 law, and respecting the existing institutions of justice in 


 this country. Closing this center and satisfying these 


 principles will take time, and is the work of many 


 departments and agencies.


In recent weeks, Republicans have regularly come to the floor of the 
Senate and the House to make dozens of statements criticizing President 
Obama on Guantanamo. The distinguished minority leader, Senator 
McConnell of Kentucky, alone, has spoken on this issue on 9 separate 
occasions over the last 11 days the Senate has been in session. It is 
interesting that the Republicans are spending so much time focused on 
the fate of Guantanamo while President Obama and others in Congress are 
focused on getting our economy back on track after 8 years of failed 
economic policies.

What is the explanation? According to a recent story in Politico:




 Congressional Republicans have stoked parochial fears of 


 releasing Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. mainland, and GOP 


 aides privately acknowledge that this issue is one of the few 


 on which they believe they have a real edge on the Obama 


 administration.


Somehow arguing on the floor of the Senate that President Barack 
Obama cannot wait to close Guantanamo and turn terrorists loose in the 
United States--incredible.

The Hill newspaper reported:




 As polls show most Americans approve of the job Obama is 


 doing on issues like the economy, the wars in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan and others, Republicans are desperate to find an 


 issue on which they can come out ahead.


In other words, the Republicans are trying to turn Guantanamo into a 
political issue. Richard Clarke was President George W. Bush's first 
counterterrorism chief. Listen to what he said last week:




 Recent Republican attacks on Guantanamo are more desperate 


 attempts from a demoralized party to politicize national 


 security and the safety of the American people.


Let's examine two of the specific claims from the other side of the 
aisle. They argue that transferring Guantanamo detainees to U.S. 
prisons will put Americans at risk.

Well, earlier today my colleague Sheldon Whitehouse--I serve on the 
Judiciary Committee with him--had a very interesting hearing, which I 
am sure will be noted by many people when they follow the news, where 
he talked about the detention and interrogation policies and brought 
some critical witnesses to testify who had dissented from President 
Bush's policies during the course of his administration.

During his hearing in the Judiciary Committee today, one of the 
witnesses was Phillip Zelikow. Phillip Zelikow was the Executive 
Director of the 9/11 Commission, which has received high marks from 
virtually everyone for the professional job they did under the 
leadership of Governor Kean of New Jersey and former Congressman 
Hamilton of Indiana. Mr. Zelikow also served as counselor to Secretary 
of State Condoleezza Rice. He comes to this issue with ample 
experience.

Mr. Zelikow was intimately involved with these issues during the Bush 
administration, and he strongly supports closing Guantanamo. He told me 
in the hearing it will be safe to transfer Guantanamo detainees to U.S. 
prisons and facilities, and some of the most dangerous terrorists are 
already incarcerated in the United States.

Here are a few examples: Ramzi Yousef, the mastermind of the 1993 
World Trade Center bombings--he is being safely and securely held in an 
American detention facility; 9/11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui; 
Richard Reid, the so-called shoe bomber; and numerous al-Qaida 
terrorists responsible for bombing United States Embassies in Kenya and 
Tanzania.

If we can safely hold these individuals, I believe we can safely hold 
any Guantanamo detainees who need to be held. I should note no prisoner 
has ever escaped from a Federal supermaximum security facility in the 
United States.

Republicans also claim the administration wants to release terrorists 
into our communities. What an incredible charge, and patently false. 
President Obama has made clear that Guantanamo will be closed in a 
manner consistent with our national security.

Even the Bush administration acknowledged that there are people being 
held at Guantanamo who were wrongly detained and who are not 
terrorists. Let me give you one example.

There is an attorney in Chicago who is a friend of mine who 
volunteered to represent one of the detainees at Guantanamo. At his own 
expense, he flies down to Guantanamo and meets with this man 
periodically. He tells me that the man is now 26 years old. He is 
originally from Gaza. He has been held now for 7 years--7 years--
because at the time we were offering rewards to people in various parts 
of the world who would turn in suspects. So the money was offered. This 
man was turned in, eventually sent to Guantanamo.

The attorney tells me he was sent to Guantanamo at the age of 19. He 
is now 26. Fifteen months ago, our Government sent a message to this 
attorney saying: We have reviewed this case in detail--after 6 years--
reviewed this case in detail. We have no charges against this man being 
held in detention.

This man is being held in Guantanamo, which is a very bleak setting 
if you have been there, and he has now been held an additional 15 
months with no pending charges. Our Government did not believe he is a 
dangerous individual. What they were trying to do is to find a place 
where he can go and, for 15 months, he has been sitting in detention in 
Guantanamo.

Is that consistent with justice in America? Is that the kind of image 
we want? Of course we want to be safe. But the rule of law suggests 
that if the man has done nothing wrong, he should not be punished for 
it and continue to be in this secure setting in Guantanamo, separated 
from his family now for 7 years, with no charges brought against him.

Even the Bush administration, which started this Guantanamo 
detention, realized after some time that literally hundreds of people 
who were detained there were not in any way, shape, or form a threat to 
the United States and they were released--many of them back to their 
home countries.


Back in 2002, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld described the 
detainees at Guantanamo as ''the hardest of the hard core'' and ''among 
the most dangerous, best trained, vicious killers on the face of the 
Earth.'' Those are the words of Secretary Rumsfeld. However, since that 
statement by Secretary


Rumsfeld, two out of three of the detainees in Guantanamo have been 
released. They have also cleared dozens of additional detainees for 
release but cannot return them to their home countries, much like the 
one I described, because of the risk they may be tortured if they 
return.

We need our allies to accept some of these detainees, but they have 
made it clear they will not do so unless the United States admits a 
small number of detainees who do not present any threat to our country.

As Senator Sessions, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary 
Committee, has pointed out, it is illegal under U.S. law to resettle 
terrorists in the United States--one of the charges being made on the 
Republican side of the aisle. Unlike the previous administration, 
President Obama does not believe that he can set aside any laws enacted 
by Congress. No one can be admitted to this country to live freely 
until they have been through a thorough background and security check 
and cleared of wrongdoing.

President Obama inherited the Guantanamo mess from the previous 
administration. Solving this problem is not easy. There will be 
difficult choices, and it will take time. But the President has shown 
he is willing to step up and lead and make hard decisions that are in 
the best interests of the security of the United States.

I applaud the President for engaging in a careful and deliberative 
process to close Guantanamo. As Colin Powell, James Baker, John McCain, 
and many military officials have said, closing Guantanamo will make us 
a safer nation.

I urge my Republican colleagues to take another look at this issue 
and understand that this important national security issue is best 
solved in a bipartisan way, and that we should continue the work of 
closing Guantanamo, suggested by President George W. Bush, by doing it 
in a fashion that is consistent with America's values.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.