---
---

# None
## `81e9dc381b37f2a7c1d65fda51db1569`
`Mr. PIERLUISI — 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. PIERLUISI. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of a magnificent 
Puerto Rican Hero, Sgt. Carlos Rafael Evans Toro of The United States 
Marines, 1st Battalion 2nd Marine of Fajardo, Puerto Rico. Carlos was 
born on October 17, 1979, along with his twin sister Carla. He is 
married to his lovely wife Rosemarie and they have two children, Noroby 
and new born Genesis. Sgt. Evans had served three tours in Iraq, and 
was on his first tour of duty in Afghanistan in Salam Baezar when an 
IED went off during a foot patrol on May 16 2010. Losing his legs and 
part of his arm, he somehow held on to fight his next battle. To walk 
again, and he will! His courage his faith, and his character is an 
inspiration to us all. And with his family's help, the key to all great 
recoveries, this mountain they will climb together! I ask that this 
poem penned in honor


of him and his family by Albert Caswell, be placed in the Record.
















 Carlos Can




 Carlos Can!



 And Carlos Will!



 All of our hearts, so instill!



 As we watch him climb, each and every mountain . . . and 


 every hill . . .



 Moving onward, moving forward . . . ever onward still!



 All but with his fine heart, as he somehow rebuilds . . .



 Carlos Can, all because . . . lie's A United States Marine 


 . . .



 One of the best things that this country has ever seen!



 Arms and legs, yea we all need!



 But, without a heart . . . one can not so surely breath!



 Carlos Can, and Carlos Will . . . all of his dreams, one 


 day fulfill . . .



 As This Pride of Puerto Rico, so fills...



 So fill's all of our hearts, with all of his courage . . . 


 and so iron will!



 While, against all odds . . . he will not be stilled!



 For he has a life to live, and to our world so much more to 


 give!



 For on that fateful morning, as he awoke . . .



 And so saw, what this dark war had invoked . . .



 As the tears, upon his fine face so gently broke . . .



 As in that moment, his fine heart to him so spoke!



 So spoke to him, about faith and courage . . .



 And how not to somehow be discouraged!



 For only from ones soul, so conies hope . . .



 As it was all in that moment, that he so made that choice . 


 . .



 As through him . . .



 All in his actions, we so heard our Lord's most beautiful 


 voice!



 Calling To Us!



 To Teach Us . . .



 To Beseech Us . . .



 All in Carlos's choice!



 And, if ever I have a son . . .



 I but pray, he could but be like this fine one!



 To have the strength and courage, like Carlos could!



 Carlos Can! And Carlos Will!



 Marine Take That Mountain, Climb That Hill!



 Hoorah Jar Head, for God and Country you so bled!



 Showing us all, That God Is Great! And God Is Good!



 Like Carlos, do you think that you so could?
