---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `81ec8e30dabd9d586fb6613cdbf9e992`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, before we respond to the 
President's call for an additional 20,000 troops in Iraq, we must put 
his call in the context of the history of the war, beginning with the 
discussion of what the current 130,000 troops are doing there now.

The original reasons we were provided with the rationale for going to 
war, that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, that Iraqi leaders were 
connected with the 9/11 attacks, and that Iraq posed an imminent threat 
to the United States, all turned out not to be true. Saddam Hussein was 
captured and recently hanged, al-Zarqawi is dead, and Iraq held 
democratic elections over a year ago, and yet we are still in Iraq.

Throughout the war, the President has attempted to associate our 
presence in Iraq with a so-called war on terrorism. The truth is that 
our presence in Iraq has actually increased our risk to terrorism.

Furthermore, the term ''war on terrorism'' is a rhetorical term 
without any relationship to reality. Terrorism is not an enemy. It is a 
tactic. The enemy is al Qaeda. We attacked Afghanistan because al Qaeda 
was there, not in Iraq.

The President is now saying he is laying out a new mission in Iraq, 
thereby clearly acknowledging that, whatever the old mission was, it 
was not working. But there is still no clearly defined end goal and no 
clearly defined explanation of how failure or success can be measured.

If our mission now is to stabilize Baghdad, many military experts 
have already said that an additional force of 20,000 troops is woefully 
insufficient to


accomplish that goal. The fact is that the administration has already 
increased troop levels on several occasions during this war. None of 
the previous surges in troop levels have had any lasting effect on the 
war, and there is no credible evidence to believe that this surge will 
be any different.

And how can we have confidence in predictions of success? Before our 
invasion in Iraq, Secretary Rumsfeld predicted that the war in Iraq 
would last ''6 days, 6 weeks. I doubt 6 months.'' Vice President Cheney 
predicted we would be greeted as liberators.

Almost 4 years ago, the President stood before a sign that said 
''Mission Accomplished'' and proclaimed major combat operations in Iraq 
have ended.



A year and a half ago Vice President Cheney said the Iraqis were ''in 
the last throes'' of the insurgency. And yet here we are discussing an 
increase, not a decrease, in troop levels.

At the outset of this war, the administration predicted that the cost 
of the war would be so minuscule that it advised the House Committee on 
the Budget not even to include the cost of the war in the Federal 
budget. The administration official who suggested that the cost of the 
war might exceed $100 billion was fired. To date we have appropriated 
nearly $400 billion, and the President has already formally requested 
another $200 billion more, with no end in sight.

Over 3,100 courageous Americans and countless Iraqis have already 
lost their lives. How many more will die if this strategy falls as far 
from the predicted result as the original length of time and cost 
estimates of the war?

Furthermore, Mr. Speaker, as part of developing a mission and 
strategy, it is imperative that we ask where these additional troops 
are going to come from. Many will undoubtedly come from the National 
Guard and Reserves, but they have already been in Iraq for longer-than-
average deployments and many have already completed multiple tours of 
duty. Other troops must be redeployed from other assignments; so we 
must ask what moving these troops will mean to our global national 
security.

Last November the American people sent a powerful message. They want 
a change in Iraq, not more of the same. They expect an honest 
explanation of why we entered Iraq in the first place, what the present 
situation is, what goal do we expect to achieve, and what the strategy 
will be to accomplish it. Only then can we intelligently discuss the 
troop levels necessary to accomplish that goal. Unfortunately, all we 
have gotten from this administration is essentially ''Don't worry, be 
happy, success is around the corner; and if you don't believe that, 
then you are not patriotic and you are not supporting the troops.''

For my colleagues who say that failure is not an option, I ask what 
will happen if the President's so-called ''New Way Forward'' fails, as 
many experts predict it will? Are we then required to further escalate 
the war, further strain our military, sending thousands more of our 
troops to Iraq? How many more of our young men and women must die 
before the administration acknowledges what was in the National 
Intelligence Estimate? And I quote, ''The term 'civil war' accurately 
describes key elements of the Iraqi conflict.' ''

Mr. Speaker, although the resolution before us is technically 
nonbinding, it gives the House an opportunity to call upon the 
President to work cooperatively with Congress to develop an effective 
strategy to bring our troops home. The American people and our 
courageous men and women on the front lines deserve a clearly 
articulated and sensible approach to ending the war. This resolution 
puts the House on record as saying that an escalation of military 
forces is a step in the wrong direction.

I therefore urge my colleagues to support the resolution.