---
---

# IRAQ
## `81fa3deacdd5fd55de532aaeecae6a16`
`Mr. GREGG â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I want to, once again, state the situation. 
It has been very well stated by the Republican leader. The simple fact 
is, we, as members of the minority, requested the right to offer an 
alternative to the proposal of the majority. That is not an unusual 
event in the Senate. In fact, it is the purpose of the Senate to debate 
different approaches.

What we asked as an alternative was very simple, straight forward 
language. Let me read it again. It simply stated:




 It is the sense of the Congress that Congress should not 


 take any action that will endanger the United States military 


 forces in the field, including the elimination or reduction 


 of funds for troops in the field, as such action with respect 


 to funding would undermine the safety or harm their 


 effectiveness in pursuing their assigned missions.


All this language says is that whether you agree with the President 
or whether you disagree with the President, whether you support a 
commitment of more troops or you don't support a commitment of more 
troops, once the troops are on the ground in the fight, we are going to 
give them the financial support, the logistical support, the equipment 
that they need in order to protect themselves and pursue their mission 
effectively.

Members do not have to support the President to support this 
language. It is not designed to state the President is right or the 
President is wrong. It is simply language designed to say that an 
American soldier deserves the support of the Congress of the United 
States. That is an elementary responsibility of this Senate.

The fact that the Democratic leadership will not allow Members to 
vote on this simple statement of support for American troops is a 
transgression on the purposes of the Senate, which is to express itself 
relative to the actions of our soldiers in the field and how we will 
support them.

It is literally impossible to address the debate on Iraq without 
addressing the most fundamental issue, which is whether our troops are 
going to be supported when they are asked to defend us in the field. 
The idea that we can decouple the support for the troops from the issue 
of policy is absurd on its face, and the position of the Democratic 
leadership that we should not address the issue of supporting the 
troops when we address the issue of whether the tactics being pursued 
by the military commanders in the field are correct--which doesn't 
happen to be the responsibility of Congress; that is the responsibility 
of the commanders--is by nature inconceivable, inconsistent, and simply 
not defensive.

In fact, it is so absurd on its face that I would simply quote the 
national commander of the American Legion, Mr. Paul Morin, who says:




 We will not separate the war from the warrior.


That is what this is about: whether the Democratic leadership takes 
the truly indefensible position that in a debate on the issue of Iraq, 
we do not discuss the support for the person we are asking to go out 
and defend this Nation.

What this really comes down to is very simple. This resolution would 
have received broad bipartisan support in this Senate. That is because 
there are very few Members in this Senate--I would guess virtually 
none--who don't believe that our obligation as a Senate, as a 
legislative body which funds the military, that our obligation is to 
give the soldiers in the field what they need in order to defend 
themselves and carry out their mission.


So rather than have a vote on our amendment which would have received 
a large majority in this Senate--much


larger than the proposal put forward as their proposal--they decided 
not to have a vote at all. Then they claimed that we were responsible 
for slowing the process.

How inconsistent and indefensible is that statement: I don't have the 
votes; therefore, I will not allow a vote to happen. But it is your 
fault that I am not allowing the vote to happen. Really? That only 
makes sense if you happen to be a true partisan and believe this debate 
should be a partisan debate.

Somehow my language has been described as ''partisan,'' and the other 
language has been described as ''bipartisan,'' but the other language 
has fewer votes than my language. No, this is not true. It is simply a 
fact that the other side of the aisle does not wish to put their 
membership in a position of voting for a simple resolution that calls 
for the support of our troops.

That is an unfortunate statement on where the Democratic Party is 
today relative to support for the efforts of soldiers in the field. It 
is hard for me to conceive that there are folks within the community of 
interest in Washington who feel so strongly about their dislike for the 
President or his policies that they are unwilling to go on record in 
support of the soldier who is fighting for us on the streets of 
Baghdad. But that is the essence of the problem. That is why we are not 
going to have a vote in the Senate. It is not that the Republican 
membership has in some way stalled this process. The Republican leader 
has gone out of his way, he has gone well beyond what many in our party 
believe maybe we should have done in trying to be accommodating to the 
insistence of the Democratic leadership that there be no opposition to 
the one item that they want to bring to the Senate floor.

In my experience in the Senate, when something is brought to the 
floor of the Senate as controversial as the discussion of how we pursue 
a war and a war policy, there are going to be a lot of amendments. But 
the Senate leadership, under the Democratic leader, has said, no, not 
only will there not be a lot of amendments, there will only be one 
amendment from our side, and we on the Democratic side will pick the 
amendment on the Republican side that they can offer, and we will let 
them offer that but nothing else.

The Republican leader, in an attempt to be responsive, said, OK, if 
there are only going to be two amendments, we will pick the amendment. 
And the amendment will simply say that whether you support the 
President, whether you support his policies, at least you can say you 
support the troops, the soldiers who are asked to go out and protect 
America and walk the streets of Baghdad.

But that was a bridge too far for the Democratic leader, a bridge too 
far for the Democratic membership because they did not want to take 
that vote even though that would have been a bipartisan vote and would 
have received significantly more votes than the Democratic proposal.

I don't think there should be any confusion about why we aren't 
having a vote. We are not having a vote because more people would vote 
for my amendment than would vote for their amendment, and they don't 
want to embarrass their membership by having to have them vote for my 
amendment even though there is nothing controversial about it, unless 
you consider supporting troops in the field, giving them what they need 
to fight and defend themselves, to be controversial.

It is an ironic situation. I thank the Republican leader for having 
offered me the opportunity to bring this amendment forward and for 
making it fairly clear that we as a membership are willing to be 
reasonable; that we only ask for a vote on something that we think is 
important while they ask for a vote on something they think is 
important.

I yield the floor.