# NEW IRAQ STRATEGY
## `81fffd58445c5c2de3ae9e4eb4c8a2d8`
`Mr. PRYOR â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, I want to be on the record as thanking you 
for your leadership on this legislation. You shared it with me more 
than a couple of months ago now. I know you worked on it for a number 
of months before that. The Senate and the American people owe Senator 
Ken Salazar of Colorado a real debt of gratitude for drafting this 
legislation and pushing it to the point it has gotten to today.

I open by reading the first two paragraphs of the executive summary 
of the Iraq Study Group. This was written 6 months ago. It says:




 The situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating. There is 


 no path that can guarantee success, but the prospects can be 


 improved.



 In this report, we make a number of recommendations for 


 actions to be taken in Iraq, the United States, and the 


 region. Our most important recommendations call for new and 


 enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq and the 


 region, and a change in the primary mission of U.S. forces in 


 Iraq that will enable the United States to begin to move its 


 combat forces out of Iraq responsibly. We believe that these 


 two recommendations are equally important and reinforce one 


 another. If they are effectively implemented, and if the 


 Iraqi government moves forward with national reconciliation, 


 Iraqis will have an opportunity for a better future, 


 terrorism will be dealt a blow, stability will be enhanced in 


 an important part of the world, and America's credibility, 


 interests, and values will be protected.

That was true when it was written 6 months ago, and it is still very 
relevant today.

Today, I want to talk about amendment No. 2063 and encourage my 
colleagues to consider voting for it and even cosponsoring it. One of 
the things Senator Salazar did when he drafted this amendment is he 
worked very hard to try to honor the integrity of the findings and the 
recommendations of the Baker-Hamilton group, and he has done that. You 
can look at each paragraph of amendment No. 2063 and see that it 
reflects the essence of what the Iraq Study Group was trying to 
communicate to us.

In fact, we have had a couple of colleagues come to us in the last 
several days and say: Well, if you will just change this paragraph or 
this sentence or this one word, or if we can just work a little bit on 
this text, then I might be a cosponsor. Well, the problem there is, if 
we change that, then we would be trying to change what the Iraq Study 
Group recommended, and we are not going to do that. The purpose of this 
amendment is to take this bipartisan commission's work and put it into 
legislation.

Some people ask: Who made up this group? What is so magic about the 
Iraq Study Group? Well, let me tell you, it has two former Secretaries 
of State, it has the former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs 
Committee, it has a former Supreme Court Associate Justice, it has a 
former White House Chief of Staff, it has a former Secretary of 
Defense, and two former United States Senators. This is a group that 
comes together with a lot of intelligence, with a lot of experience, 
and with a lot of knowledge about the region and international affairs 
and history.

I think the Iraq Study Group is the best effort that America has yet 
put forward on a thoughtful, responsible approach to Iraq. One of the 
things I like about the Iraq study group's recommendations and their 
conclusions is it is not just setting an artificial timetable. I am a 
little bit out of sync with some of my Democratic colleagues on wanting 
to set a timetable on Iraq. I don't think we ought to have a public 
timetable in the law. I know many of my Democratic colleagues disagree 
with me, and a few of my Republican colleagues do as well. But the 
thing I like about the Iraq Study Group legislation, the Salazar-
Alexander amendment, is, it is much more comprehensive than simply a 
timetable. In fact, it is more comprehensive than just military.

It tries to take a different approach. It really tries to change 
American policy in Iraq. And it is a multifaceted approach on trying to 
deal with the issues in Iraq and the region. So what you are looking at 
with the Iraq Study Group is you are not just looking at a military 
solution. General Petraeus has said if we just have a military solution 
we are going to lose. So the Iraq Study Group anticipates that, and it 
says we need a diplomatic solution, an economic solution, a political 
solution, and a military solution. I think it is the most comprehensive 
approach that anyone has put forward yet on Iraq.

Again, this is a bipartisan group that has come together, and this 
amendment is bipartisan. We have seven Democrats and six Republicans. 
By this time tomorrow we may have seven and seven, or eight and eight, 
or some combination thereof. We don't know exactly the number of 
cosponsors we will end up with, but certainly we hope we will have a 
solid majority of Senators who will support this amendment when it has 
a chance to come up.

As Senator Salazar said, and Senator Alexander echoed, part of what 
this bill does is it gets U.S. forces out of the business of combat and 
into the business of training and equipping others. And, really, what 
we are trying to do is stabilize Iraq.

One thing I think the Iraq Study Group does over and over, for 
several pages in its findings, in its report, on several pages, is it 
talks about diplomacy and regional diplomacy and how important it is to 
have the neighborhood, so to speak, around Iraq--people inside Iraq and 
around the region--to have a part in stabilizing Iraq and making the 
region more stable and stronger.

I have heard a couple of criticisms, such as my colleagues mentioned 
tonight, and one is that it is too prescriptive, that our legislation 
is too prescriptive. Another is that it doesn't do anything. And those 
are kind of polar opposite criticisms. In fact, there is an old saying 
that when you are settling a lawsuit, if both sides are unhappy, maybe 
you have a good settlement. So I would say in this situation, at least 
one way to look at it is both sides are unhappy.

We are trying to thread the needle. We are trying to find a 
bipartisan solution on Iraq, a bipartisan consensus in this body. In 
fact, I would say this: With all due respect to my colleagues, and my 
House colleagues, and the President, the last thing in the world we 
should ever have a party-line vote on is Iraq. We have 150,000 troops 
in Iraq. They are getting shot at every day. They are putting their 
lives on the line for this country and for Iraq every single day. There 
are people out there trying to kill them, trying to maim them, trying 
to blow them up--you name it--every day. We should never have a party-
line vote on Iraq. We just shouldn't do it. And this amendment right 
here, this is an effort to try to bring the consensus that we need on 
Iraq.

Senator Alexander told me a couple of months ago, he said: You know, 
we talk about needing a political consensus in Baghdad. He said: What 
we really need is a political consensus in Washington, DC, on Iraq. And 
I think he is right. The Salazar-Alexander amendment tries to get to 
that consensus.

I will say this: For the Senators who believe this amendment doesn't 
do anything, I disagree. I think this is a significant step in a new 
direction, in a positive direction for Iraq. In fact, you can look at 
the amendment itself, and it has 13 sections. It is true that 3 of


the 13 are sense-of-Congress sections--3 out of 13. But that means 10 
of 13 are binding, 10 of 13 actually change U.S. policy and have 
requirements that have teeth. I would encourage my colleagues who 
mistakenly believe this amendment doesn't do anything to actually look 
at the language of the amendment and they will see it is a very 
significant improvement over our current policy in Iraq.

Some people say it is too prescriptive. In other words, it binds the 
President's hands too much. I disagree. When you look at the language 
that Senator Salazar and members of the Iraq Study Group came up with 
when they drafted this, really what you are talking about is laying out 
some very specific things but also giving the President quite a bit of 
flexibility. And I think that is important. He is the Chief Executive. 
He is the Commander in Chief, and I think Senator Salazar and Senator 
Alexander have found the right balance in drafting this amendment.

The last thing I will say in closing, going back to the Iraq Study 
Group Report that came out this past December, and back to the 
executive summary--I started with reading the first two paragraphs of 
the executive summary, so let me conclude by reading the last two 
paragraphs of the executive summary in the Iraq Study Group Report:




 It is the unanimous view of the Iraq study group that these 


 recommendations offer a new way forward for the United States 


 in Iraq and the region. They are comprehensive and need to be 


 implemented in a coordinated fashion. They should not be 


 separated or carried out in isolation. The dynamics of the 


 region are as important to Iraq as events within Iraq.



 The challenges are daunting. There will be difficult days 


 ahead. But by pursuing this new way forward, Iraq, the 


 region, and the United States of America can emerge stronger.


Again, I think those words were true 6 months ago, I think they are 
relevant today, and I think we need to give the Iraq Study Group 
recommendations a chance to succeed.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.

Mr. WARNER addressed the Chair.