# TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007
## `820225321a892ed66af9d66099f1f2aa`
`Mr. LEWIS of Georgia — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend for 
yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3056, the Tax Collection 
Responsibility Act, a bill to eliminate the IRS's private debt 
collection program.

The private debt collection program is an insult to the American 
taxpayer and our Federal tax system. The collection of taxes is a core 
government function. It is the mission of the IRS.

The Ways and Means Committee held a hearing on this program, and we 
found that it has no business, no place in the collection of taxes. 
This program violates the public trust.

Taxpayers trust the IRS with their personal information. When 
taxpayers put information on their tax returns, they expect that the 
IRS will see that information, and only the IRS. Taxpayers do not 
expect their personal information could be given to private debt 
collectors. It should never ever happen.

Taxpayers have been harassed under this program. Thousands of 
innocent taxpayers are being called on the phone and asked for their 
Social Security numbers. They are afraid that their identity will be 
stolen. In some cases, the calls are never-ending. We found that one 
elderly couple was called 150 times over 30 days. That's not right. 
That's not fair.

This program targets low-income taxpayers, and these private debt 
collectors have even gone after nursing


home residents and military personnel serving in Iraq.



That is unbelievable. Use of private debt collectors erodes the 
Federal tax system, the public trust and the Treasury.

I say, Mr. Speaker, enough is enough. We must stand with the 
taxpayers, and we must stand up for the IRS employees. Pass this bill 
and end this program.