# None
## `8208cb879179f3937ff1cce35fcf1401`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio â€” 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, as we a couple weeks ago had a big 
brouhaha here on what we would do as Democrats to protect the homeland, 
I think Frank Rich is exactly right: They are already trying to get us 
here, and this war has created more terrorists who are trying to get at 
the United States. Many may be here already. We don't know.

But if you look at what we wanted to do with the homeland security 
bill a couple of weeks ago, put 3,000 more Border Patrol agents on the 
borders, make sure that we completely fund the cargo inspections coming 
in and out of our ports, make sure the technology is at our ports to 
find out if biological or chemical weapons are coming in, fund the 
first responders, fund the cops, fund the firemen, fund the equipment 
that they need for interoperability, so we have an agenda on how to 
protect the homeland that is much different than this one here.

But as Mr. Rich said, and there was also an article today in The New 
York Times, U.S. generals doubt the ability of Iraqi army to hold 
gains.

Now, no kidding. They had a big brouhaha with the speaker there, who 
was a Sunni Arab, who was put on leave at the request of a broad 
coalition of the three parties after incidents in which he lost his 
temper at other members and struck them or allowed his guards to rough 
them up. Now, I understand we have had a few brouhahas here in the 
House and in the Senate, but we didn't have an occupying force telling 
us to get along and get together.

These guys can't get their act together, Mr. Larson, in a way that 
will allow them to take over their own country. When you look at what 
is going on here and the testimony before Congress on June 12 from 
General Dempsey, in charge of training the Iraqi army, he said there is 
a need to increase the Iraqi forces by at least 20,000 troops this year 
and a further expansion would be needed in 2008. That is not possible. 
He said, ''However, the past few days of fighting have not yielded the 
kind of success that we needed. Despite the efforts to encircle leaders 
from al Qaeda and others there, we are not getting the job done.''

We have so many cultural differences with the Iraqi people, the 
difficulties in training them, the lack of competence among the 
administration to jump on this, the lack of troops, on and on and on 
and on it goes.

I want to lend my voice to yours, Mr. Larson and to Mr. Kendrick Meek 
from Florida, to say that it is time to bring these troops home. Let's 
redeploy in a very responsible way, protecting the safety of our 
troops, Mr. Larson, which we all support, and make sure that we handle 
this politically and diplomatically, because we won this military 
battle, but now it is an occupation.