---
---

# IRAN COUNTER-PROLIFERATION ACT OF 2007
## `820e84efdf9038c1ff9ba8506385e469`
`Mr. PAUL — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strongest opposition to this 
curiously-timed legislation which continues to beat the drums for war 
against Iran. It is interesting that this legislation was not scheduled 
for a vote this week, but appeared on the schedule at the last minute 
after a controversial speech by Iran's President at Columbia 
University.

The House has obviously learned nothing at all from the Iraq debacle. 
In 2002, Congress voted to abrogate its Constitutional obligation to 
declare war and instead transfer that authority to the President. Many 
of my colleagues have expressed regrets over their decision to transfer 
this authority to the President, yet this legislation is Iraq all over 
again. Some have plausibly claimed that the move in this legislation to 
designate the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization is 
an attempt to signal to the President that he already has authority 
under previous resolutions to initiate force against Iran. We should 
recall that language specifically requiring the President to return to 
Congress before initiating any strike on Iran was removed from 
legislation by House leadership this year.

In expanding sanctions against Iran and against foreign businesses 
and countries that do business with Iran, we are hurting the American 
economy and moving the country closer to war. After all, sanctions are 
a form of warfare against a nation; and, if anyone has forgotten Cuba, 
sanctions never achieve the stated goals.

This legislation authorizes millions more dollars to identify and 
support young Iranians to come to the United States. Does anyone 
believe that we are assisting political opposition to the current 
Iranian regime by singling Iranians out for U.S. support? How would 
Americans react if the Chinese government were funding U.S. students to 
come to China to learn how to overthrow the U.S. government? This move 
is a counterproductive waste of U.S. taxpayer dollars.

The march to war with Iraq was preceded with numerous bills similar 
to H.R. 1400. No one should be fooled: supporters of this legislation 
are aiming the same outcome for Iran. I strongly urge a ''no'' vote on 
this bill.