# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `82163a524071af776b921d12ec12adf7`
`Mr. WAMP — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. Mr. Speaker, I want to first say, since I am coming at this 
point in this time, that I am a Republican who opposes this resolution. 
Most importantly, because this resolution is nonbinding, I am one of 
the ranking members on the Appropriations Committee who will fight to 
make sure that, no matter what, funds are not restricted or reduced or 
cut from the men and women in harm's way on behalf of this country in 
the future days, regardless of what is said on this floor.

I want to make some general observations. First, the war on terror is 
the worst-named war in the history of our country. We are at war with 
Islamic jihadists, fundamentalists, radicals. We need to be more clear 
as to who we are fighting. Frankly, my view is that this is a religious 
conflict. People may ask in Tennessee or Texas, why are we involved?

Well, for the first 1,350 years of this religious conflict we were 
not involved. But history shows that a man named Qutb, the Wahhabi 
leader, a radical, over 40 years ago, came to this country, was 
educated, went back and indoctrinated a man named Azzam and taught a 
man named bin Laden that Western liberalism, freedom, self-government 
would actually bring about apostasy or ungodliness.

That is the truth. He indoctrinated the Sunni radicals that your way 
of life, self-determination, would create ungodliness, and that it must 
be stopped, and at that point we were brought into this religious 
conflict, the split there in the Arab and Persian world created by the 
1970s, organizations in Iran that overthrew the Shah,


and it gave them the first Islamic state when Ayatollah Khomeini was 
brought back in 1978, and, unfortunately, our leaders in the country 
helped bring that about in the late 1970s.

Khomeini took over, and within a few months they took our hostages in 
Tehran. That was a low point in this country's history and my life, and 
from 1978 forward 30 times our interests have been attacked around the 
world, and twice they have been attacked domestically in the United 
States.

It is important to remember this. We are at war with Islamic 
jihadists. Al-Zarqawi and Zawahiri were talking while al-Zarqawi was 
still alive, and he said we need to expand the caliphate from Indonesia 
to Morocco. They believe they can go north to Europe and all the way to 
the former Soviet Union. This is where the Arabs have had influence, 
this is their agenda.

It is interesting to me that this only became very difficult in the 
last 12 months in Iraq. This week was the 1-year anniversary of the 
Samara mosque bombing. That is when the sectarian violence broke out. 
They are attacking each other. Moqtada al-Sadr's uncle is buried at 
that mosque. He was killed by Saddam Hussein.

One year ago, they blew up that mosque in sectarian violence. What is 
Moqtada al-Sadr doing today? He is fleeing. Why? Because he hears that 
we are going to increase security, put more boots on the ground in 
Baghdad. He is fleeing to Iran.

What does that say about all of this? Well, it says to me that we are 
beginning to do the right thing. The region's leaders told us this week 
partition of Iraq is not acceptable in the Arab world or the Persian 
world or the region. A partition will not work. It will make things 
worse. They also said ''a precipitous withdrawal will be 
catastrophic.''

I remind my colleagues and the American people, we were not in Iraq 
before September 11. We were not in Afghanistan before September 11. 
This problem is not going to go away if we leave Iraq. This is a 
generational challenge.

As a matter of fact, I will say this, and this may be the most 
dramatic thing said on this floor, and I am briefed at a pretty high 
level. I believe we haven't been attacked domestically since September 
11 for two reasons. One, we are better than we have ever been at 
intelligence again, and I am glad.

Two, they don't want to see us united like they saw us after 
September 11. Our enemies love the dissent and the division. They do 
not want to see us come together again, because when we do we are the 
best in the world.

Five points, Iraqi troops are showing up, progress is being made. 
This morning, a story out, several Iraqi battalions now exceed the 75 
percent measurement on participation. For them that is very good.

Two, reinforcement is what this is. It is not a surge. The spread on 
how many troops we have had over the last several years is from 136,000 
to 160,000. We are down to the lower level. This is going to bring us 
back to the upper level, about what we had when the elections were 
held. It is not a surge, it is reinforcement.

Three, the commanders tell us that reinforcement will, quote, will 
save lives and reduce violence. Reinforcements militarily, always there 
is a grid that shows that reinforcements save lives and reduce 
violence.

Four, there are two tracks here. One is troop strength and security. 
The other is diplomacy. You will see in the coming days diplomacy break 
out in the region. I say to all my colleagues who have great concern, 
that are afraid we are not talking to Iran and Syria, just stay with 
us. I believe you will see dialogues at every level take place in the 
region in the coming weeks, and I have been meeting with some of the 
administration officials.

Then let me say this, and I know what the distinguished majority 
leader said, and I respect him, and I believe many, many people, if not 
everyone in this House, have good intentions. If this resolution is 
followed by a funding cut, more Americans will die, and the sacrifices 
to date will be lost. We must do better, but we better not retreat in 
Iraq.

Too much is at stake. Our problems are not going away. Let's not be 
foolish. Let's not retreat from this challenge. Let's stand together 
and unite for the fight of our lives. It is a generational struggle, 
and we must pull together and meet in defense of liberty and our way of 
life.