# None
## `82263de17663f6b3fb9133175533f049`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 24 February 2009`

---

 Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, our vote today affects one of 
the core issues of our democracy--the right to vote. It is a 
fundamental American principle that every citizen should have the right 
to vote and to participate in our democracy. Yet the nearly 600,000 
residents of the District of Columbia have no voting representative in 
Congress. Americans give up their right to vote for Members of Congress 
when they move to the Nation's Capital. It is long past time for us to 
finally correct this basic wrong, and I commend Senators Lieberman and 
Hatch for their strong leadership on this legislation.

The basic injustice is clear. Already this year, District of Columbia 
residents have paid over $500 million in Federal taxes. Annually, they 
have the second highest per capita tax burden in the Nation. But they 
are denied the basic right of congressional representation taken for 
granted by other taxpaying Americans.

DC residents have fought and died to protect our Nation in every war 
in which America has participated since our Nation was founded. Since 
World War I, over 192,000 residents of the District of Columbia have 
served in our Armed Forces, and more than 1,600 DC residents have given 
their lives in service to our Nation. Since the start of the current 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, nearly 3,000 DC residents have been 
deployed in those countries and dozens of DC residents have been 
wounded or killed. There is no reason to deny representation in 
Congress to these patriotic veterans.

I have long been a strong supporter of DC representation in Congress. 
In 1978, the District's nonvoting Delegate in the House, Walter 
Fauntroy, our Senate majority leader, Robert Byrd, and I worked with 
many others to pass a constitutional amendment to extend full voting 
rights to Americans living in the Nation's Capital. Congress passed 
that constitutional amendment, but too few States ratified it, and it 
never took effect.

Although I strongly supported that constitutional amendment, I do not 
believe that a constitutional amendment is the only valid option. In 
1978, we were following the precedent of the 23rd amendment, which was 
approved by Congress in June 1960 and was ratified by the States in 
March 1961 and which gave citizens of the District of Columbia the 
right to vote in Presidential elections. At the time, there was little 
opposition in the House to the amendment giving the District 
congressional representation, and the Republican leaders in the Senate 
actively supported it. It passed the House by a vote of 289 to 127. The 
Senate passed it by a vote of 67 to 32, narrowly above the two-thirds 
majority required for a constitutional amendment. Needless to say, we 
were deeply disappointed by the failure of the States to ratify the 
amendment, and that failure planted the seeds for the serious 
consideration now of the statutory option for achieving the goal.

As the House and Senate hearings on the current bill make abundantly 
clear, the Constitution's District clause provides a valid means for 
acting by statute to grant citizens of the District of Columbia the 
right to vote in the House of Representatives. In testimony on the 
bill, numerous constitutional scholars have explained that article I, 
section 8 of the Constitution grants Congress the authority ''to 
exercise exclusive Legislation, in all Cases whatsoever, over'' the 
District of


Columbia. The Supreme Court has ruled that Congress's exclusive 
authority over the District of Columbia is broad and ''national in the 
highest sense.'' O'Donoghue v. United States, 289 U.S. 516, 539-40, 
1933.

Madam President, at this very moment as the Senate debates whether DC 
citizens deserve a vote in Congress, many brave Americans born in the 
District of Columbia are fighting for democracy in Iraq. If we are for 
democracy in Iraq and Afghanistan, we cannot oppose democracy in the 
District of Columbia. If we believe in the principles of ''one person, 
one vote'' and government by the consent of the governed on which our 
Nation was founded, we must support this bill.

I urge my colleagues to vote for cloture on the motion to proceed to 
this long overdue legislation and to support final passage of the bill 
so that we can finally correct this historic wrong.