# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `82288e077bb08b716f213faf9c9ae840`
`Mr. FILNER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Skelton and Mr. Hunter, your committee, working with 
the Veterans Committee, has produced an outstanding piece of 
legislation; and I hope that that cooperation, I know that cooperation 
will continue, because we have other things to do.

The gentleman from Kansas expressed what is on the minds of many of 
our colleagues, and that is to make sure that our rural veterans are 
served, also. We will do that; and I know my ranking member, Mr. Buyer, 
joins me in that commitment.

As I said earlier, Mr. Chairman, we have a test as a Nation. Are we 
going to make sure that every returning young man and woman from Iraq 
and Afghanistan has the best facilities, the best health care, the best 
treatment, the best love, the best commitment that we, as a Nation, can 
offer? And are we going to make sure that their predecessors, from 
World War II to the present, are also given that same care and 
commitment?



There are 200,000 homeless vets on the street tonight, mainly from 
the Vietnam era. We cannot allow that to continue.

We have a 600,000 claim backlog for disability payments. We cannot 
allow that to continue.

We have facilities that need to be repaired and rebuilt. We have 
needs for Agent Orange veterans and atomic veterans. We, as a Nation, 
must take up this challenge and must meet it.

We had significant new resources provided in the budget matters that 
have come before us in the last 60 days. This Wounded Warrior 
Assistance Act is the next step as we try to make sure that those who 
faced danger and life-threatening situations in Iraq do not have to 
face a bureaucracy which threatens to kill them off. This is a step to 
change that. We are going to have a seamless transition, and I thank 
the Chair for his commitment.