---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8235e2d1e17af4eb05cd31a8141d6188`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, I stand with the other members of my freshman class to 
support this important resolution. My election and those of my fellow 
freshman colleagues were an unmistakable signal from the American 
people. They believe the President's path in Iraq is wrong and they 
want new voices to produce change.

Mr. Speaker, I am one of those voices, and today I rise to speak with 
the American people to oppose the President's escalation.

The United States requires a new path in Iraq, a path that will 
deploy our troops out of Iraq; a path that will force the Iraqi 
Government to plan for its own defense; a path that will engage 
countries throughout the region and around the world to help stabilize 
and protect Iraq; and a path that will allow the United States military 
to rebuild and refocus on the important mission of destroying al Qaeda 
and defending America from the threat of international terrorism.

Sadly, the escalation proposed by the President does none of these 
things. The President's plan continues down the same path we have 
traveled for the last 4 years. These years have taught us that U.S. 
military power alone is not sufficient to stabilize Iraq, yet it is the 
only tool this President employs.

From the outset, this administration has been wrong. The 
administration led us into a war with flawed intelligence. That is one 
wrong. The administration


went to war without a plan to win the peace. Two wrongs. This 
administration chose to protect Iraqi oil fields before securing the 
ammunition dumps throughout the country. Three wrongs. This 
administration sent our troops into harm's way without enough body 
armor or armored vehicles. Four wrongs. This administration gave no-bid 
contracts to its friends and political allies. That is five wrongs.



Years ago now, President Bush stood on the deck of the USS Abraham 
Lincoln before a banner declaring mission accomplished and said, 
''Major combat operations in Iraq have ended.'' That is six wrongs.

Now, this administration wants us to blindly place our faith and the 
lives of 20,000 more of our troops in an Iraqi Government that has 
failed to meet every security obligation it has pledged. Sadly, once 
again, this President is wrong, and no amount of wrongs is going to 
make the President's policy towards Iraq right.

It is time for a new kind of escalation on the diplomatic front. A 
stable Iraq is in the United States' interests and in the interests of 
Iraq's neighbors. However, the President has done next to nothing to 
gain the assistance of regional partners.

Inside Iraq, the government must meet its promises to reach out 
beyond its base of support and unite the Iraqi people. Sending more 
troops into Iraq does nothing to push the Iraqi Government towards 
greater self-reliance. At a time when it is incumbent upon the Iraqi 
Government to step up and do more, why should we give them the 
opportunity to do less?

This resolution is an important first step that voices loud and clear 
the message America sent last November, and it puts the President on 
notice that the Congress will no longer stand by and allow him to 
recklessly endanger American lives and security. If the President 
refuses to change course, this Congress will be forced to act.

We will no longer allow him to send underequipped and underprepared 
units into combat. We will demand appropriate accounting standards and 
no longer allow billions of taxpayer dollars to disappear unaccounted 
for into the rabbit hole of Iraq. And we must not let our National 
Guard continue to be decimated by repeated and extended activation.

I recently met a young man from my district who has been accepted at 
West Point and who will soon serve as a future leader in the United 
States Army. I want to ensure that when he graduates from West Point 
and accepts his commission, the Army he joins will not be decimated by 
the mistakes in Iraq.

I also want to talk about the veterans of this war and the unique 
challenges they will face. I am proud and honored to be on the 
Veterans' Affairs Committee. I am proud that one of my first votes in 
Congress was to provide an increase in VA health care funding.

Currently, there is a backlog of nearly 600,000 pending veterans 
claims at the VA. We must reduce this number so that all veterans can 
be better served. We must provide funding to better diagnose and treat 
post-traumatic stress disorder. I am appalled that during this time of 
war the administration would cut funding for research on prosthetic 
technologies that will let our wounded veterans lead more normal lives.

My district is the home of West Point Military Academy and, as such, 
has a unique perspective on the war. The leaders that emerge from the 
halls of that institution are an invaluable resource for our Nation. 
Sadly, we have lost over 50 West Point graduates in Iraq and others in 
the services and throughout my district.

My brother-in-law is a lieutenant colonel who works at West Point. My 
nephew is a cadet. The courage, devotion and conscientiousness of the 
men and women of the United States Military Academy embody the best of 
America.

In the words of the sheriff of Putnam County, a retired brigadier 
general, one should never send our Armed Forces to do a job which is 
not militarily achievable.

I support this resolution