---
---

# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `824ce2db6be0dfa5e8225c060c511b0b`
`Mr. KAGEN — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Being a songwriter and a singer yourself, I understand, 
you remember the song, ''There's a Hole in the Bucket.'' Well, when we 
came to Congress, we discovered there is a hole in the bucket. We feel, 
and I will just speak on behalf of myself, I feel just as frustrated as 
everyone back home that change can't happen fast enough, that we can't 
plug the leaks as fast as humanly possible.

We have not got the ability. I wasn't elected President; I was 
elected to be one of the 435 Members of Congress who express the 
people's view. We are not the administrators. Our job is to do 
oversight, to legislate, and to fund those things and place our values 
on the table and put our money where we believe the people best want it 
spent.

And people watching have to ask themselves: Whose side are we on? Are 
we on the side of large insurance companies? Are we on the side of no-
bid contractors?

I am a Democrat. I am not on their side. I don't sit in the 
boardrooms. I sit and stand with you on the House floor speaking their 
voice.

All these issues come together. You cannot solve our situation in 
Iraq and health care and education and our environment and the safety 
and security of this Nation without talking about how we are going to 
spend our hard-earned money. It always requires money, and that's 
obvious. It is simple. Money is a problem solver. If you have a 
problem, you throw money at it and the problem should go away. Well, we 
are throwing money into Iraq and the problem isn't going away.

Here are the words from Tom and Sue from New London: ''Number one, 51 
million people without health care is a disgrace. Number two, the war 
in Iraq is like Vietnam all over. Number three, outsourcing is 
unacceptable and morally wrong.'' Tom and Sue from New London 
understand. There is a connection between outsourcing by hiring people 
offshore, lower wages, lower tax base that we don't have the money to 
solve our problems here at home.

Vicki from Green Bay writes, ''Better medical care for poor 
seniors.''

Well, SCHIP is not focused at seniors. It is focused first at our 
children who are most at risk, those with lower-income families. Those 
are the people I think we have to focus on first, and never think for a 
moment we are going to neglect our seniors, our military veterans and 
active military people who have served and put their lives on the line. 
They covered our back. It is time we cover theirs as well.

This is Kathleen from DePere: ''It is time for all Americans to have 
the same health care benefits as their representatives in Washington.''

Well, Kathleen, you don't want my coverage because I respectfully 
declined the health care benefits here until everyone in my district 
and the State and the country is offered the same cafeteria menu of 
choices. I felt it was wrong.

Deb from Little Chute in my district. ''I want to see lower drug 
prices for everyone, not just seniors.''

People back home get it, Congressman Hodes. It is not just about 
kids, but we have to start somewhere. If we can't stand up and say--
what kind of Nation are we, that we would turn our back on those most 
in need, children from hardworking families, what kind of Nation are 
we? It is morally unacceptable for the President to have vetoed this 
bill. This bill is paid for, and it is paid for in a responsible 
manner. It is a good deal for the American taxpayer. It is a great deal 
for our future to invest in our children's care.