---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `824d9429a6b53e1b7f1d38ed1728a1aa`
`Mr. PAUL — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. PAUL. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding me these 2 minutes.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this bill. Some are hopeful 
that this will be a less militaristic approach to our foreign policy. 
Quite frankly, I don't see any changes. I wish it were something that 
would represent a humble foreign policy, but when you put an extra $100 
million into the military operations of the United Nations, I hardly 
think this is a change in direction. Actually, it's $18 billion that is 
going into more meddling, and we don't have $18 billion.

The President has now asked us here in the Congress to follow the 
PAYGO rules. Well, that might be a good idea if we had set aside the 
idea that we would raise taxes, but we're not going to cut any domestic 
spending for this foreign spending, so the odds of this following the 
PAYGO rule are essentially nil.

I want to call attention to one provision in this that is rather 
disturbing to me, and that is the Civilian Stabilization Initiative. 
This is new. It was not invented by this administration. It was 
invented by the last administration. This is to set up a permanent 
standing, nation-building office with an employment of or with the use 
of nearly 5,000 individuals.

So what is the goal of this new initiative going to be? It will 
facilitate democratic and political transitions in various countries.

Now, if you want to talk about interfering in the internal affairs of 
other nations, that is exactly what this is all about. Facilitating 
democratic and political transitions? Well, of course. We've been doing 
that for a long time, but we've gotten ourselves into a lot of trouble 
doing it. We did it in 1953, and we're still suffering the 
consequences. This initiative is a little more honest. It's up front. 
We're actually supporting and funding a facility that would be involved 
in political transitions. The mandate in this is to ''reconstruct'' 
societies. That sounds wonderful. There are a lot of societies that 
need reconstruction, but so many of the societies that we have to 
reconstruct we helped to destroy or to disrupt.

Think of what our troops and our money have done in Afghanistan as 
well as in Iraq. I think this provision, itself, is enough reason to 
vote against this authorization.