---
---

# None
## `825d4f1dd6f0eef3d403c75340dcbc08`
`Mr. BONNER — 10 December 2008`

---


Mr. BONNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the distinguished 
career of the Honorable Jon Porter for his service to the people of 
Nevada and the United States House of Representatives. Congressman 
Porter has represented the Third Congressional District of the State of 
Nevada for the past 6 years.

Born and raised in Fort Dodge, Iowa, Jon attended Briar Cliff College 
in Sioux City, Iowa, majoring in Theology. Jon later moved to 
Henderson, Nevada, to begin his professional career as a small business 
owner with the Farmers Insurance Group. Jon's political career began 
with his election to the Boulder City City Council in 1983. Immediately 
following his term on the City Council, Jon was elected mayor of 
Boulder City in 1987 and went on to serve in the Nevada State Senate. 
He was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2002, becoming 
the first Representative of the newly created Third Congressional 
District.

Appointed to the powerful Ways and Means Committee at the beginning 
of the 110th Congress, Jon used this post to influence revenue 
legislation affecting the gaming and tourism industries which are the 
backbone of Nevada's economy. He also worked to shed light on travel 
requirements in order to facilitate easier travel to and from the 
United States in order to boost tourism to the Third District.

Education has also been a priority of Jon's. Working with John Walsh, 
child advocate and host of America's Most Wanted, Jon introduced 
legislation mandating criminal background checks for teachers in States 
that had not previously required them. The House passed bill was later 
enacted as part of the larger Adam Walsh Child Protection Act.

Jon is also a founding member of the ''Second Amendments,'' a 
bipartisan band of congressional Members that plays for various 
charities in Washington. The band has also traveled to Iraq playing for 
the troops at Christmas.

Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing a 
dedicated leader and friend to many in this body. I know his family, 
his children, J. Chris and Nicole, as well as his many friends and 
colleagues join me in honoring his accomplishments and extending thanks 
for his service over the years on behalf of the State of Nevada and the 
United States of America.

Jon will surely enjoy the well deserved time he now has to spend with 
his family and loved ones. I wish him the best of luck in all his 
future endeavors.
