---
---

# AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `825fef8d12905bbbda53f8268ec0470d`
`Mr. McHENRY — 31 July 2007`

---


Mr. McHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I am happy that the Chair is accepting 
this amendment, but I would like to speak on it as an opportunity to 
speak about cutting government spending.

Though it's just $50,500, that's far more than the median income in 
my district. I want the American taxpayers to know that this is an 
important step, and it's good that they're accepting a limitation on 
the rapid increase in spending within this legislation.

There are a lot of good points that we have to consider here. We have 
to consider the totality of government spending when we're debating 
here on the House floor. The government spending for this fiscal year 
is over $2.7 trillion. To put that into perspective, Mr. Chairman, that 
is larger than all the economies of the world, except for two. It is 
far larger than even the Chinese economy, which is about $1.9 trillion.

The reason why I bring this up is that when we're discussing each of 
these appropriations bills, we tend to focus on small parts of the 
appropriations process. We tend to focus on an amendment here, an 
amendment there, maybe increasing funding here and there and increasing 
funding in a particular appropriations bill. But we have to talk about 
what's that doing to the whole of the budget. And if we spend money 
here in the Department of Agriculture, we may not have that money to 
fund this SCHIP proposal that the Democrats are bringing to the floor 
at the end of this week.

Now, to talk about that bill, what they're going to do is not simply 
cut government spending elsewhere in the budget, elsewhere in the 
government, reforming programs, eliminating programs that are 
ineffective and no longer cost-effective for the American taxpayers, 
but what they do is they go out and find new revenue and raise taxes 
under this SCHIP proposal.

The Agriculture bill we have here today increases government 
spending, thereby forcing this new Democrat majority to go out and 
raise taxes for their new programs. And, Mr. Chairman, they've proposed 
a lot of new programs, this new Democrat majority, and what we have to 
do is focus on making sure we balance the budget. Now, balancing the 
budget, to me, as a fiscal conservative, does not mean going out and 
getting new revenue.



It means doing things, sensible things, such as the Congressman from 
Georgia, Mr. Gingrey, my good friend and colleague, is doing here. It 
cuts 1 percent out of the administrative budget of the Department of 
Agriculture, just 1 percent.

I have an amendment that I would like to perfect. If 1 percent was 
acceptable to the Chair, I would like to see if maybe 2 percent would 
be acceptable and see where we can actually draw the line in cutting 
government spending, where the breaking point is in this House of 
Representatives. To that end, I think it is important that we have a 
discussion on what that proper number is.



I know my colleague from Georgia may have another amendment similar 
to this next up, I hope, at which point I would like to see if we can 
actually go a little bit further in cutting government spending. Let's 
talk about not just the Agriculture appropriations bill, which is the 
key focus of today, but also the long-term consequences of our just 
having a narrow, myopic focus on the current bill on the floor. Let's 
talk about the totality of government spending, ways that we can reform 
the government, limit the government, and actually get back to what is 
sensible.

We have a big debate going on right now about the war in Iraq. We 
have a big debate going on about children's health care. We have a big 
debate about whether or not the farm bill that we passed last week was 
the right thing to do and whether or not you should actually have a 
massive tax increase in order to implement the new programs within that 
formula. Many of us agree that that wasn't the right thing to do, but, 
unfortunately, the majority in the House did vote for that massive tax 
increase.

It is important that we have a discussion on health care and 
agriculture and the long-term consequences of these issues going 
forward. Certainly, the bill today and the chairman's willingness to 
accept a 1 percent cut in the administrative budget is a step in the 
right direction. We can be thankful for that.

I hope, as we go on in the debate, the Chair will be willing to 
accept other amendments that limit the rapid increase of funds going to 
the Department of Agriculture and we can actually rightsize the 
government. There are many on this side of the aisle who want to cut 
the size and scope of government. I know that the chairwoman has been 
willing to examine programs and reform those programs. I hope that she 
will be willing to accept many of the amendments we have here today.

I also know my colleague from Georgia has a number of amendments like 
this. It is important that we discuss the long-term consequences of our 
failure to limit the growth of government.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.