---
---

# OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `82618c71e6903066c1003b228b1d8a9a`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 4 March 2009`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. I am tired of the naysayers who come up with these 
quirky little congressionally designated projects and make them a 
subject of ridicule. Our country, our ship of state, right now is 
leaking. We can right that ship and President Obama is righting that 
ship. This CJS bill is the right tool to be able to do that.

What are the consequences of not passing this bill? I will tell you 
right now. Let's go to law enforcement. If we do not pass this bill and 
we put it on something called a continuing resolution, that is 
essentially keeping it barely afloat. The FBI will get a half billion 
dollars less to run their agency for this year. If Director Mueller 
were here, he would say this means 650 fewer FBI special agents. It 
means less analysts and other people fighting crime on U.S. soil. It 
means we cannot hire 100 new FBI specialists in forensic accounting to 
go after the mortgage fraud people. Remember them--the scammers, the 
bums? We would not be able to do that.

Let's talk about drug enforcement. There will be $52 million less for 
DEA. What are some of the biggest threats facing us right now? Let's 
talk about Mexico. Mexico is on the verge of a state of siege because 
of the drug cartels that are running rampant. If you watch the news and 
listen to the Ambassador of Mexico and to their compelling issues down 
there--look at what was on ''60 Minutes,'' where the drug cartels are 
roaming streets with assault rifles, shooting police chiefs, shooting 
elected officials, kidnapping--that is on our border. We need the DEA. 
Then there are the narcotraffickers in Colombia--in that long, 
steadfast fight where we are making progress. Then there is 
Afghanistan, which provides 85 percent of the world's poppy. We are 
going to send thousands of more troops into Afghanistan.

I am not too excited about that part, but that is a debate for 
another time. But what is going on in Afghanistan? They are growing 
poppy like Iowa grows corn. It is an enormous drug crop. What does the 
money from that do? First, it corrupts Government and elected 
officials. It corrupts the judiciary. It has a corrupting influence. So 
we are going to send American troops to fight and die for something 
that could be bordering on a narcostate?

I say, before we send in more marines, let's send in more DEA agents 
to work with the Karzai government to do something about the growth of 
poppy and the funding of the Taliban. Let's send in DEA agents. Under 
this, we are going to have a hiring freeze. Agents would have to take 
furloughs. But that is OK, that is just in law enforcement.

Let's talk about the national space agency, NASA, and the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency. If we don't do this appropriation, NASA 
will be funded close to a half billion dollars below what is in the 
omnibus. This would be a major setback to developing a reliable 
transportation system to continue our human space flights. We are 
already going to go dark in space, where we are going to rely on the 
Russians to get us up to our very own space station. But what this 
could mean is the loss of several thousand jobs in Florida, Texas, 
Mississippi, Alabama, Utah, and Louisiana. If we don't pass this by the 
end of March, layoff notices will begin. Aren't we for jobs today and 
jobs tomorrow? Aren't we for building rocket ships and spaceships? We 
have to pass this bill.

Then when we look at NOAA. We all love the weather reports. We rely 
upon them for early warnings of tornadoes and hurricanes and, at the 
same time, to be able to give us traffic. Weather reports don't come 
from the Weather Channel. The Weather Channel gets its information from 
the weather services provided by our Government at NOAA. We ought to 
rename it the ''National Oceans Atmospheric and Weather 
Administration.'' Right now, they are weathering their own storm. If 
this continuing resolution hits them, it means more layoffs. We won't 
be able to develop the right technology to predict and give the early 
warnings that are so important to our people.

Then I wish to talk about education. Through the National Science 
Foundation, and other science agencies in here, we work to promote 
education, to get our young people excited and participating in science 
and technology, so that they want to come into these exciting new 
possible careers, where they are going to come up with new ideas and 
inventions. This makes a major downpayment so we can coordinate with 
our new Secretary of Education and our President, who is such a strong 
advocate of this.

If you wish to have a country that is meeting the day-to-day needs of 
our own people, yet looking ahead to the long-range needs of our 
country, you want to vote for this appropriation. You want to vote for 
the subcommittee portion of this appropriation. The other reason, for 
those who are concerned about the issue of bipartisanship, is we 
developed this jointly and collegially and civilly with my colleague 
from Alabama, Senator Richard Shelby. This bill has his endorsement and 
it will have his vote. Senator Shelby and I have worked together for 
many years, and we believe that good people can find common ground, 
find an accessible center in the rough and tumble of politics that 
enables us to come before the Senate with a bipartisan approach to the 
Commerce, Justice, Science bill.

I want to thank Senator Shelby and his staff for their cooperation 
and collegiality in crafting the CJS portion of the bill we are 
considering.

The CJS Subcommittee's top priority is keeping Americans safe from 
terrorism and violent crime. To that end, our bill provides $26.1 
billion for the Justice Department, which is $3 billion above the 
previous President's budget request. We fund the FBI our domestic 
counterterrorism agency with mission of dismantling terror cells and 
weapons of mass destruction on U.S. soil at $7.3 billion, which is $155 
million above the previous President's budget request.

The CJS bill is the major Federal funding source for our State and 
local police departments. The previous President's budget request 
proposed dramatic cuts totaling $2 billion to State and local grant 
funding. We reject those cuts and instead provide a total of $3.2 
billion to support our thin blue line.

Among those funds, the CJS bill provides $550 million for COPS 
grants, which pay for gear and technology--such as bulletproof vests 
and crime scene analysis--to keep our cops safe, and to help them catch 
criminals. We also have $546 million for Byrne-justice assistance 
grants, a formula-based program that is the main Federal funding tool 
for State and local police operations, which was zeroed out by the 
previous administration. For juvenile justice and delinquency 
prevention mentoring and antigang programs we provide $374 million, 
which is $189 million more than that the previous President request. 
Lastly, we provide $415 million to prevent violence against women, 
which is the highest level ever allocated for Violence Against Women 
Act programs.

In addition to helping our State and locals keep our communities 
safe, the CJS bill funds our major Federal law enforcement agencies. We 
provide $1.9 billion for the DEA to fight international narcoterrorists 
and drug kingpins. There is also $1.1 billion for the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, ATF, to combat violent gun 
crime and gangs and investigate arson.

The CJS bill contains $954 million for the Marshals Service to 
apprehend fugitive sex offenders and other violent criminals. We 
included $1.8 billion for our U.S. Attorneys to prosecute gang leaders, 
gun traffickers and drug dealers. Lastly, we provide $6.2 billion for 
management and construction of Federal prisons to ensure our Federal 
prisons are safe and secure.

These agencies are the backbone of our criminal justice system. They 
enforce our laws, catch criminals and keep our communities safe.

Most importantly, this bill protects the most vulnerable among us: 
our children. We provide over $234 million to keep our kids safe from 
predators and violence.

The CJS includes $5 million to hire 20 new U.S. marshals to track 
down and arrest fugitive sex offenders, $47 million for the FBI 
Innocent Images program to catch deviants who use the Internet to prey 
on children, $5 million to hire 25 new assistant U.S. Attorneys to 
prosecute sex offenders, $70 million


for state and local law enforcement efforts to find and apprehend child 
predators, and $16 million for grants to school districts to keep kids 
safe at school.

I am proud to report that the CJS bill follows the framework of the 
America COMPETES Act and makes investments to improve America's 
competitiveness.

The bill provides $819 million for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, which includes $65 million for the new 
Technology Innovation Program and $110 million for the manufacturing 
extension partnership, MEP. This is important funding to develop new 
technologies and new products and make American manufacturers more 
competitive.

We also provide $6.5 billion for the NSF, including $845 million 
dedicated for education. These funds focus on science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics, and will develop our next generation of 
scientists and engineers.

For the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, NOAA, we 
provide $4.4 billion, including: $945 million for our weather service 
to predict and warn us about severe weather, and $758 million for our 
fisheries service to protect our marine resources.

The bill also provides $17.8 billion for NASA, which is $200 million 
more than the previous President's budget request. We meet our 
obligations to fully fund the space shuttle at $3 billion, the space 
station at $2 billion, and the next generation space vehicle at $3.1 
billion this year.

Finally, the CJS bill supports an innovation friendly government by 
providing full funding at $2 billion for the Patent and Trademark 
Office, PTO, to reduce backlogs of patent applications and protect our 
intellectual property; and $430 million for the International Trade 
Administration to enforce our trade laws.

The CJS bill also makes important investments in America's future. We 
provide $240 million for economic development grants--$140 million more 
than requested by the previous administration--to help communities 
create jobs and opportunity. We also provide $20 million for public 
television infrastructure grants.

The CJS bill funds the science we use to monitor and predict changes 
in our weather and climate, and make policy decisions on actions we 
should take to save our planet. In fact, the CJS bill funds 85 percent 
of all Federal climate change science.

Specifically, we provide $1.4 billion for NASA Earth science for 
satellite missions that tell us how much pollution is in our 
atmosphere, our rainforests and ice sheets are shifting, and the height 
and chemistry of our oceans are changing. Funding for Earth science 
includes $150 million for new NASA earth science missions, which is $50 
million above the previous President's request. This funding is 
recommended by the National Academy of Science to measure our ice 
sheets, climate, and atmosphere so we can better predict changes to our 
planet.

We provide $606 million for NASA science into how the sun affects the 
Earth. This helps predict and warn about events like solar flares that 
can knock out our communications and power grids.

The CJS has $966 million for NOAA weather satellites, which are 
important early warning tools. If we can better predict and warn when 
tornadoes and hurricanes are coming, we can save lives and save money. 
We provide $74 million to restore critical climate sensors that had 
been deleted from our next generation polar satellites because of cost 
overruns. We also include $420 million for NOAA research to help us 
better understand our oceans and atmosphere and how they interact and 
change.

Finally, the CJS bill continues to emphasize congressional oversight, 
accountability and fiscal stewardship.

We meet our constitutional obligations for a timely and accurate 
Census by providing $3.1 million for the 2010 Census. This will keep 
the Census on track, despite the previous administration's 
mismanagement of an information technology contract.

The CJS Subcommittee continues its oversight role by cracking down on 
cost overruns or mismanagement of taxpayer dollars. The bill insists on 
discipline and vigorous oversight by requiring each agency to notify 
the committee when costs of projects grow by more than 10 percent, 
thereby creating an early warning system.

We also require that inspectors general conduct random audits of 
grant funding to ensure compliance.

Finally, the bill complies fully with legislative transparency and 
accountability rules.

Again, I want to thank Senator Shelby and his staff--Art Cameron, 
Goodloe Sutton, Allen Cutler and Augusta Wilson--for their cooperation 
and collegiality.

The CJS bill meets the day to day needs of our constituents by 
keeping them safe from terrorism and violent crime. It looks out for 
the long-term needs of our Nation by making investments in America's 
physical and intellectual infrastructure to create and sustain jobs for 
today and jobs for tomorrow.

For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to support it.















 Amendment No. 608


Mr. President, I rise to oppose the amendment No. 608 offered by the 
Senator from Oklahoma. Simply put, this amendment is a solution in 
search of a problem. The CJS portion of the omnibus does provide funds 
for the Department of Justice to solve civil right cold cases. This 
amendment is a distraction.

Before I speak about why I oppose this amendment, however, we must 
first talk about Emmett Till.

Emmett Till was a 14-year-old African-American boy from Chicago who 
was murdered in Money, MS, on August 28, 1955. He was dragged from his 
uncle's home and shot in the head. His body was dumped in the 
Tallahatchie River, tied to a 70-pound cotton gin with barb wire, and 
found 3 days later by fishermen. Emmett's mother demanded an open 
casket to show the world the brutality of his murder.

The murder of Emmett Till was a key event igniting the civil rights 
movement. Emmett's two killers never served a day in jail for their 
heinous crime. An all-White jury acquitted them in 67 minutes. The 
killers later admitted to murdering Emmett Till, but could not be 
prosecuted for the crime because they had already been found innocent 
by a jury.

In May 2004, 49 years after the murder, the Department of Justice 
reopened the case to finally determine if anyone else was involved in 
the killing. The FBI exhumed Emmett Till's body and performed an 
autopsy. Two years later, the FBI determined no one else was involved 
and officially closed the case.

On October 7, 2008, President Bush signed a law named after Emmett 
Till. The purpose of the legislation is to make sure Justice Department 
has the necessary resources to investigate civil rights cold cases.

Cold cases are extremely difficult to solve. Investigators run into 
many dead ends, as witnesses are hard to find and evidence can be 
easily misplaced, mishandled or destroyed. Additionally, investigations 
use up a lot of time and money resources.

However, solving these cases is important. This is about more than 
just bringing killers to justice. Solving these cases is about letting 
victims' families get on with their lives, about moving beyond racial 
hatred, and reconciliation.

I want to be clear I support funding for investigating cold cases. 
That is why I fought hard to make sure there is money in the Federal 
checkbook for fiscal year 2009 to support the Emmett Till law. The CJS 
portion of the omnibus provides the Department of Justice with the 
resources it needs to investigate civil rights cold cases.

To boost resources for civil rights cold case investigations, the CJS 
bill provide $123 million for the Department of Justice's Civil Rights 
Division, which is $7 million more than 2008, and charged with heading 
up the investigation and enforcement responsibilities set forth in the 
Emmett Till bill. We include $151 million for funding to reduce 
enormous backlog of untested DNA evidence. There is a backlog of 
500,000 unsolved cases with untested DNA evidence sitting in evidence 
lockers today.

So that State and local law enforcement have the means to carry out 
their roles in investigating civil rights cold cases, we provide $30 
million for competitive funds for State and local government to 
investigate and prosecute civil rights violations. There is also $25


million for competitive grants to State and locals to reduce forensic 
evidence backlogs.

The CJS bill provides $9.8 million for the Justice Department's 
Community Relations Service to train local law enforcement how to 
mediate racial tensions in communities. We also have $75.6 million for 
the inspector general at Department of Justice, which is $5 million 
more than 2008. Under the Emmett Till law, the Inspector General has 
the authority to investigate missing children cold cases.

In addition to cold case investigations, the CJS bill provides robust 
funding to enforce our Nation's civil rights laws. It includes $1.84 
billion, which is $88 million more than 2008, for the U.S. attorneys 
office at Department of Justice. These are the attorneys who 
investigate and prosecute civil rights violations. The bill also has $9 
million for the Commission on Civil Rights, which is responsible for 
making agencies are complying with Federal civil rights laws and 
raising public awareness on civil rights. Lastly, we include $343 
million for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, whose mission 
is to end workplace discrimination. This is $14.8 million above 2008 
and will help reduce the current backlog of EEOC cases.

I urge my colleagues to oppose amendment No. 608 and support the 
omnibus. The omnibus gives Department of Justice the resources it needs 
to investigate civil rights cold cases and enforce our country's civil 
rights laws.

I have a letter from Attorney General Eric Holder stating his support 
for the goals of the Emmett Till Act. Attorney General Holder is 
committed to the goals of the Emmett Till Act, and this letter gives 
his personal commitment to continuing to use funding to pursue these 
serious crimes.

If the Senate does not pass the omnibus, the Department of Justice 
will be forced to operate at 2008 levels. This means we will have to 
lay off investigators and prosecutors, and civil rights enforcement and 
investigations will be compromised.

For all these reasons, I urge a ''NO'' vote on this amendment.

I ask unanimous consent that the letter to which I referred be 
printed in the Record.