---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF MR. ALBERT HAROUTOUNIAN
## `826298b33f2685740ca797c2e0eae8f6`
`Mr. GERLACH — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. GERLACH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. Albert 
Haroutounian of Honey Brook, Pennsylvania, who died in Iraq on March 
10, 2008.

Albert was a linguist working on contract in Iraq for the Trinity 
Technology Group. Albert was on a mission when his vehicle was hit by


an Improvised Explosive Device (IED). He was killed along with 5 
soldiers in the blast.

Albert's grandparents fled Armenia during the Ottoman Empire's 
genocide of the Armenian people and settled in Kuwait, where he was 
born. While in Kuwait, he became fluent in three languages, Armenian, 
Arabic and English. After suffering the loss of his mother at the age 
of 14, Albert's father immigrated to the United States with Albert and 
his 3 brothers. Since immigrating, Albert grew to become an author and 
aspiring film maker. He had planned to make his most recent book, The 
Clock Doc, into his first movie.

In addition to his budding writing and film career, Albert loved to 
travel and spent time visiting places such as Armenia, Canada, Greece, 
Hungary, Iraq, Mexico, Syria and Yugoslavia. His extensive travels and 
active lifestyle exposed him to many cultures and helped to formulate 
his outlook and dreams for the world.

Albert's goal in life was to establish an organization that would 
help educate, feed, and house people across the globe. He wished to 
make our world one of peace with a message to live a life of 
compassion, understanding, and happiness.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me today in paying honor 
to Mr. Albert Haroutounian for his exemplary service to our Nation. May 
his life be an inspiration to all fellow citizens and we extend our 
utmost respect and condolence to his family.
