# WORLDWIDE WAR ON TERROR
## `82631aa0e61e00dad6a37f52803984a3`
`Mr. WEBB â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I thank my good friend, the Senator from 
Minnesota, for her kind remarks about the people who have served.

I emphasize my support for the resolution--actually, the 
resolutions--that were so painstakingly put together by a number of 
senior Senators from both sides of the aisle, only to be denied a full 
debate and an open vote through the procedural motions yesterday 
evening.

Winston Churchill once wrote about watching good ideas getting 
nibbled to death by ducks. Last night, we saw this phenomenon in 
action. We had before the Senate a measure that would allow this 
Congress to speak clearly of concerns regarding the woeful lack of 
leadership by the President on an issue that affects our Nation and our 
military people such as no other. And the other side--including some 
Senators who had helped to draft the resolutions and had their names on 
it--punted the ball down field rather than giving the people of this 
country the debate they not only need but are calling for in every 
opinion poll.

Quite simply, there is no way, other than through a strong resolution 
or restrictive language in an appropriations bill, for this Senate to 
communicate to this administration that its so-called new strategy is 
lacking in the most crucial elements that might actually lead to a 
solution in Iraq. This is not a strategy. It is a one-dimensional 
tactical adjustment that avoids the elements of a true overarching 
national strategy. It relies too heavily on our military, while 
ignoring the overwhelming advice of those with long experience in this 
region that we must pursue robust diplomacy in order to bring this 
misguided effort to a conclusion.

There have been allegations by those on the other side that we who 
take this position are not supporting the troops. I submit that the 
best way to support the troops would be for this administration to 
outline and pursue a comprehensive strategy that includes the 
diplomatic measures that will be essential to ending our involvement.

Mr. President, a reminder: During the Vietnam war our military killed 
more than a million enemy soldiers--enemy soldiers--by official count 
of the present Hanoi Government. Actually, that count is 1.4 million 
enemy soldiers. But without a clear strategy and without adept 
diplomacy, that simply was not enough. From the very beginning in Iraq, 
this administration has consciously neglected its proper diplomatic 
duties. It has attempted to frame the debate over Iraq's future as one 
of military action on the one hand and a set of vague guidelines to the 
Iraqi Government on the other, as if the rest of the region were 
somehow not crucial to the eventual outcome. This, in and of itself, is 
a recipe for continued violence and for American failure in Iraq.

It is widely known that the Iraqi Government lacks the power to 
control the myriad of factions that are causing chaos. The latest 
National Intelligence Estimate not only confirms this, it indicates 
that these factions have been broken into so many different components 
that it is not even fair to call this problem one of sectarian violence 
any longer. The administration knows this. Most of the administration's 
strongest supporters know this. Their reaction has been to increase the 
pressure on an impotent government and to go to the well, again and 
again, asking for even greater sacrifices from the military, while 
ignoring their most basic responsibility, which is to put together a 
clear diplomatic effort that will bring full context to the issues that 
face us and, in short order, end our involvement. This is not 
supporting the troops. This is misusing the troops.

With respect to the troops, I would caution any political leader who 
claims to speak on behalf of the political views of our men and women 
in uniform. Our military people are largely a mirror of our society, 
particularly in the enlisted ranks, and their political views are as 
diverse as our own.

As one example, last year, a survey of those in Iraq indicated that 
more than 70 percent believed that the United States should exit Iraq 
within a year. That was a year ago. As I have said before, it is 
inverted logic to claim we should continue to fight this war on behalf 
of the troops. The fact is, they are fighting this war on behalf of the 
political process. They deserve political leadership that is 
knowledgeable and that proceeds from an assumption that our national 
goals are equal to the sacrifices we are asking them to make.

For the last 5 years, from before this invasion, this administration 
and its supporters have refused to admit the most fundamental truth of 
the entire war. It is a truth that was echoed over and over again last 
month by expert


witnesses during more than a dozen hearings before the Foreign 
Relations Committee and the Committee on Armed Services, both of which 
I am privileged to serve upon. It is a truth that this administration 
and the architects of this war too often refuse to recognize, perhaps 
because they fear it might potentially embarrass them in the eyes of 
history.

The unavoidable truth is that this war will never be brought to a 
proper conclusion without the active participation of the other 
countries in the region--all of them.

We hear stories of the Saudis helping the Sunni insurgency. We are 
told by this administration Iran is equipping and training portions of 
the Shia militias. We hear Turkey and Iran are quietly cooperating to 
limit the influence of Kurds. We hear Syria is the favorite starting 
point for many al-Qaida guerillas who infiltrate into Al Anbar 
Province. We know the entire region is being flooded with refugees from 
the violence in Iraq, including, especially, Jordan and Syria.

None of this is surprising. Indeed, all of it was predictable and 
predicted, even before the invasion of Iraq. I recall many of the 
speeches by the Presiding Officer on those points. What is truly 
surprising and unsettling is that this administration has not developed 
an overt diplomatic effort to bring order out of this chaos in a way 
that might allow us to dramatically decrease our presence in Iraq and, 
at the same time, increase the stability of the region, increase our 
ability to fight terrorism, and allow us to address strategic 
challenges elsewhere in the world.

These countries have historic, political, and cultural ties to Iraq. 
They are going to be involved in Iraq's affairs in the future, long 
after the United States departs the region. It is in our national 
interests and, as a great nation, it is our obligation to take the lead 
in causing each of these countries to deal responsibly with Iraq's 
chaos and with its future. We did exactly this in 2001, after the 
invasion of Afghanistan, bringing the major players to the table, 
including India, Pakistan, and Iran, and we should do so now.


This approach would have additional benefits beyond Iraq. It would 
begin to loosen the unnatural alliance between Iran and Syria which 
could, in turn, increase the potential for greater stability in 
Lebanon, Israel, and the surrounding territories. It would begin to 
bring countries such as Iran to a proper role of responsibility inside 
the international community.

On this point, I cite an important historical reference. In 1971, 
China, similar to Iran today, was considered a rogue Nation. China, in 
those days, was already a nuclear power. It had an American war on its 
borders in Vietnam, a war it was actively assisting. We, the United 
States, took the initiative, aggressively opening China through 
diplomatic energy and, over time, helped to bring China into the 
international community. We should not be afraid of taking similar 
actions with Iran and also, by the way, with Syria.

The bottom line of all this is this administration and its supporters 
must understand the realities that are causing us as a Congress to 
finally say ''enough is enough;'' that the time has come for a new 
approach; that the answer in Iraq and to our fight against 
international terrorism and to our diminished posture around the world 
is for us to show not only our prowess on the battlefield but also our 
leadership in the diplomatic arena; that, indeed, we have an obligation 
to the men and women who have served so selflessly on our behalf, to 
match their proficiency and their loyalties with the kind of thoughtful 
leadership that will bring this effort to a proper conclusion.

If there were other ways to convince this administration to change 
its ineffective one-dimensional approach to the situation in Iraq, I 
would welcome them, but after 5 years of political disarray, I do not 
believe it is so. I support this resolution as a first step in 
reclaiming America's strategic purpose and international reputation. I 
urge my fellow Senators to do the same.

I yield the floor.