# None
## `827b15594e3652260e39a3d306fed94f`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you so much to our colleague, the 
gentlewoman from Florida, Congresswoman Brown. And I am so pleased to 
join my 30-Something colleagues here this afternoon, our newest 30-
Something colleague from Connecticut Chris Murphy. With our new-found 
responsibility, I have been a little tied up the last couple times we 
have had this Special Order hour, so I am really pleased to be able to 
be with you. And we have some fresh blood and some new dynamics that we 
will engage in. It will be really fun to work with you and banter a 
little bit.

But I will tell you that this being the day after the President's 
State of the Union Address, Mr. Murphy, I was particularly disturbed 
listening to the President. The privilege that we have here in this 
House, and it was yours for the first time last night, and I remember 2 
years ago, I am just 2 years ahead of you in this process, and I 
remember the feeling that I had sitting in this Chamber and the awesome 
responsibility that I felt on my shoulders being this far from the 
President and having the chance to listen to him deliver that address, 
and the expectation that I had as a representative of my constituents, 
that the expectation that he would say something more than words.

And last year, if you recall, you were in your State legislature when 
he delivered last year's State of the Union. He talked about the need 
to end America's addiction to foreign oil, and subsequently that turned 
out to just be words because he ended up proposing in his budget, and 
they actually enacted, a cut in the energy legislation, that this 
Republican leadership that is no longer in charge here, they actually 
cut the funding to alternative energy, exploring alternative energy 
resources.

Now, last night he says the same thing in a different way. And we are 
just to the point, why should we expect that there is meaning and 
action coming down the pipe behind the words?

On the war in Iraq, I know I have heard from my constituents, and it 
is just shocking that after the response from the voters on November 7, 
that this President would not get the message that the American people 
were sending him. They want a new direction. They want to move the 
troops from a combat focus to a training focus, get the Iraqi troops to 
stand up on their own so that that country can take care of itself. So 
it is just shocking the lack of understanding of his priorities and 
where he is on the issues that are most important to people.


On health care, the health care priorities. There are 47 million 
people in this country, 3/1/2/ million in Florida, that don't have 
health insurance. And his solution to that problem is a tax deduction, 
a tiny tax deduction that he thinks will spur people who benefit from 
it to take that money and buy health insurance. That just shows a 
callous indifference. And you are an expert in health care; that was 
your focus. That shows a callous indifference to what the problems that 
the uninsured and underinsured are really facing.

You are probably familiar with the death spiral created by insurance 
companies where they cordoned off the people who are the most sick. 
Some States have adopted guaranteed-issue policies and modified 
community rating like we did in Florida so that there were only a few 
things that were taken into consideration when rates were set. But for 
the most part that is not what people are able to get when buying 
health insurance. So the sickest of the sick get cordoned off into a 
group; that group is priced out of the market, and then they don't have 
the ability to afford that health insurance.

A simple tax deduction is not going to make health insurance 
accessible and affordable for that group of people. It is just 
unbelievable, Mr. Murphy. And I fail to understand why this President 
only seems to keep his own counsel. It is just really unbelievable.

So I will yield to you or to Mr. Meek, but that was my feeling and my 
reaction in listening last night. And when I talked to our radio 
stations in south Florida this morning, I know the feedback that our 
radio hosts were getting was similar.