# REMEMBERING VICTIMS AT VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY AND HONORING HISPANIC  WORLD WAR II VETERANS
## `827ef60275da0804db4118faf1f56bef`
`Mrs. NAPOLITANO — 17 April 2007`

---


Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Speaker, I am honored to join my colleagues in 
honoring the tremendous contributions of World War II Veterans.

During World War II Americans responded to a call of service that 
resulted in a generation of leaders that has since never been seen. As 
our country faced the war, all citizens stood united and ready to 
contribute. Without exception, Hispanic Americans were also there to 
seize the call their country had laid before them. Not only did 
Hispanic Americans serve our country during a time of war, their 
leadership after service resulted in huge civil rights advancements for 
the Hispanic community.

It is with great privilege that I take the opportunity to especially 
recognize the noble service and high sacrifices of the approximately 
500,000 Hispanic Americans who served in the Armed Forces during World 
War II. One of whom was my brother-in-law, Manuel Musquiz--a 
bombardier.

During World War II Hispanic participation was at a higher percentage 
than any other minority. Of these, at least 65,000 were Puerto Rican 
and the majority of the Hispanics were Mexican-Americans. Thirteen 
Medals of Honor were awarded to Latinos in World War II, eleven to 
Mexican Americans, and two to Puerto Ricans. When Hispanic soldiers 
returned home they utilized the GI Bill to advance their education.

Unfortunately, many Latino soldiers who served during WWII also 
received a rude awakening as they returned home. They faced the same 
discrimination they had left when they heeded the call to serve. Latino 
soldiers returned home to exert their rights, through numerous civil 
rights efforts, to create greater opportunities through activism. 
Powerful organizations grew out of this era, including the G.I. Forum 
and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF). A 
wealth of gratitude is entitled to these national heroes and their 
families who not only fought for democracy but fought for equality.

I would also like to recognize my fellow colleagues of the 
Congressional Hispanic Caucus who also have served our country: 
Representatives Ortiz, Reyes, Baca, and Salazar.

We pause to remember the noble service and high sacrifices of those 
who have worn our nation's uniform. We must not allow our children to 
forget about those who have served and the millions of living military 
veterans in the United States, those residing in California, and 
Hispanic veterans in the U.S. Our thoughts and prayers are also with 
tomorrow's veterans--our servicemen and women serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan and across the world.

Let us remember the service of all our veterans, the ones that wars--
and peace--cannot be won without. And let us renew our national promise 
to fulfill our sacred obligations to our veterans and families who have 
sacrificed so much so that we can live free.