# None
## `82931f15a9a23d61e2c40b611b4c9428`
`Mr. DODD — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, on behalf of myself and Senator Clinton 
and the others I have mentioned here, I seek to, as soon as possible, 
meet the suggestions that have been recommended by the President's 
Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors. I want to 
express my gratitude to my colleague from New York as well as to others 
who have joined with us on this effort. This report was submitted to 
the President by our former colleague, Senator Dole, former Secretary 
of Health Donna Shalala, and this report is rather extensive on their 
recommendations on how we might better serve our returning soldiers 
from the theaters of conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The President's Commission on Care for the Returning Wounded 
recommended:




 That Congress should amend the Family and Medical Leave Act 


 to allow up to 6 months of leave for a family member of a 


 servicemember who has a combat-related injury and meets the 


 other eligibility requirements in the law.

I am very proud of many things I have done over the last 25 years in 
the Senate. None exceeds my sense of pride more than passage of the 
Family and Medical Leave Act. Along with Senator Bond, Senator Dan 
Coats, Senator Specter, Senator Kennedy, and many others, after 7 
years, three American Presidents, and two vetoes, we were able to adopt 
the Family and Medical Leave Act which, since its passage, has assisted 
more than 60 million Americans in being away from their jobs to be with 
family members during critical times in their lives without losing that 
job. These important life situations include the joyous occasion of a 
birth or adoption and the difficult circumstance of an illness of a 
child or another family member for up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave. It 
has been a remarkable asset to many people.

I suspect there is not a single American family who would not relate 
to the importance of being able to be with a family member during a 
time of significant crisis. Obviously, as our wounded warriors coming 
back from Afghanistan and Iraq are recovering from their injuries, 
having their families and others with them could be of immeasurable 
help. Senator Dole and Donna Shalala and other members of the 
Commission rightly made the recommendation that we should amend the 
Family and Medical Leave Act to provide for up to 6 months' leave for a 
family member to be with these individuals without losing their job. 
That is what we have done with the amendment we are offering to this 
bill.

Clearly, this bill has nothing to do with family medical leave. My 
colleagues from Montana and Iowa, have a tremendous responsibility in 
adopting the legislation before us, of which I am a strong supporter. 
But, knowing that we only have a short time before we adjourn for more 
than a month, there is a sense of urgency about providing for these 
families. I would hope all of us would support this amendment. This is 
a bipartisan suggestion that will make a difference in the lives of 
families who are assisting in the recovery of a wounded warrior.

I commend former Senator Dole, former Secretary of Health and Human 
Services Donna Shalala, and the distinguished members of the Commission 
for their thoughtfulness and thorough work on this matter. As the 
author of the underlying law, I have worked to maintain its protections 
and extend its protections to assist more employees. I agree with the 
Commission that FMLA is the best method for providing critical support 
for our returning heroes who are recovering from their war wounds. I am 
pleased to be joined, as a principal cosponsor, by Senator Clinton of 
New York. After more than 7 years of work, as I mentioned earlier, this 
proposal I made more than 20 years ago became law. It became law within 
days after January 20, 1993, when President William Jefferson Clinton, 
as his very first act, signed into law the Family and Medical Leave 
Act.

I remember with great clarity that bright day overlooking the rose 
garden at the White House, President Clinton signing that bill into 
law. Pat Schroeder of the other body was the principal author in the 
House of Representatives and too often gets neglected in talking about 
the history of the Family and Medical Leave Act. I will be eternally 
grateful to Pat Schroeder for the tremendous job she did in the other 
body in seeing to it that this proposal became the law of the land.

The Commission's findings indicate the critical role that family 
members play in the recovery of our wounded servicemembers:




 In their survey, 33 percent of active duty, 22 percent of 


 reserve component, and 37 percent of retired/separated 


 servicemembers report that a family member or close friend 


 relocated for extended periods of time to be with them while 


 they are in the hospital.



 Twenty-one percent of active duty, 15 percent of reserve 


 component and 24 percent of retired/separated servicemembers 


 say friends or family gave up a job to be with them or act as 


 their caregiver.



 More than 3,000 servicemembers have been seriously injured 


 during operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. In virtually every 


 case, a wife, husband, parent, brother, or sister has 


 received the heart stopping telephone call telling them that 


 their loved one is sick, or injured, halfway around the 


 world.



 Family or close friends stayed to assist recovery of almost 


 66 percent of active duty and 54 percent of reserve component 


 servicemembers.


The Support for Injured Servicemembers Act provides up to 6 months of 
family and medical leave for spouses, children, parents and next of kin 
of servicemembers who suffer from a combat-related injury or illness. 
FMLA currently provides for 3 months of unpaid leave to a spouse, 
parent or child providing care for a person with a serious illness. Our 
servicemembers need more. These are extraordinary circumstances. The 
point of the Commission and the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors 
Act that the Senate recently passed is to take care of our wounded 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan with combat-related injuries. We should support their 
families in caring for these heroes.

It is essential we do everything possible to support our troops, to 
allow their loved ones to be with them as they recover from combat-
related injuries or illnesses. That is why we should expand and improve 
benefits for those caring for our servicemembers.

Let me emphasize the major points: You have to have been injured in 
the theater of combat, Afghanistan or Iraq or in preparation for 
deployment. Our amendment allows for a parent, spouse, child or next of 
kin to provide that care-giving role. It would allow them to be with 
them for up to 6 months without losing their jobs. The leave is without 
pay. What is the universe we are talking about? It is not the entire 
Nation, obviously, or anyone who is wearing a uniform who happens to 
have been injured. You have to have been injured or acquired the 
illness as a result


of being in the combat theater or when preparing to be deployed.


The amendment is specific as to who could be the caregiver. It is 
very specific about the amount of time an employee acting as a 
caregiver would be covered. We have tried to narrow this down in a way. 
I am grateful to Bob Dole. He called me last Thursday early on and 
remembered that I had spent such as inordinate amount of time, with the 
help of Senator Kennedy and others, to adopt the Family and Medical 
Leave Act so many years ago. Most would agree today it has made a 
difference in the lives of people. I can't think of any better 
constituency to serve with expanded family medical leave than our 
service men and women.

I see my colleague from Georgia. I thank him as well for being a 
cosponsor of this proposal. Those preparing for deployment obviously 
would be covered, if they end up being affected as a result of their 
injuries or illness suffered while in the theater of combat.

Again, as someone who has been a floor manager of many bills over the 
years, I understand that is not easy to get a particularly difficult 
bill like this done. I applaud the commitment my colleague from Montana 
has brought to this legislation. It is my hope that we can achieve the 
kind of unanimity around this idea of supporting military families, 
given the fact that the President's Commission is calling for this, our 
former colleagues calling for it. We have a strong bipartisan group of 
Senators who believe this is worthwhile to do for this limited group of 
our fellow citizens who have suffered immeasurably as a result of their 
contribution. I would hope before we leave here in these next 24 or 48 
hours that the very least we could do would be to provide this kind of 
benefit for them and their families.

I truly appreciate the work of our cosponsors. In particular, their 
willingness to adopt a provision that would expand the pool of typical 
caregivers under current law for this specific purpose. Those 
caregivers are limited to spouses, children, and parents. Our amendment 
extends the caregiver role to next of kin, a brother, sister or other 
relative, perhaps.

I gather my colleague from New York, who was very helpful in pulling 
this together, is on her way to the floor. She might want to be heard 
on this as well. I was drawing this out while we wait for her arrival.