# GAS PRICES
## `82935d1bb702b99fc9b6b0941a3b0203`
`Mr. DORGAN — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I have listened for the past 20 minutes or 
so to the narrative on the floor of the Senate. My colleague from Idaho 
and I have introduced legislation last year dealing with expanding 
production in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico and in Cuban waters. We do not 
disagree on the issue of whether we should expand production in this 
region. In fact, we agree on that issue. But I have heard several of my 
colleagues come to the floor to create false choices this afternoon, 
and I want to talk about those false choices.

We are witnessing a time when it is very hard for people to figure 
out how to scrape enough money together to put $70 worth of gas in 
their tank when it is near ''e'' on the gauge. It is fascinating and 
very disappointing to me how it's possible to fill your farm tank in 
order to harvest your crop, how an airliner is going to be able to 
afford fuel, or how is a family going to be able to afford enough money 
to put gas in their tank to go to work. These decisions are being made 
at a time when we face oil prices bouncing between $120 and $140 a 
barrel and gasoline at $4, $4.50 a gallon. When that ought to invoke 
and spark cooperation on the floor of the Senate, there is none.

My colleagues come to the floor of the Senate and say: Let's open up 
the entire Outer Continental Shelf. The Energy Information 
Administration carried out an assessment that shows what production 
would look like without lifting the moratorium and with lifting the 
moratorium. What it shows is that we get some extra production in the 
year 2020. I understand talking about next week, next decade. What is 
the impact going to be to families, to truckers, to farmers, to 
airlines, and others if someone comes out here and says: You know what, 
we have a real serious problem right now, but here is a solution for 
2020.

Sign me up for the solution in the long term, although I might have a 
different approach to it. I hope by 2020 we are not quite as addicted 
to oil, particularly foreign oil from the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, Iraqis, 
or Venezuelans. Maybe we can shed the some of that addiction in 10 
years. Maybe that ought to be our strategy. Maybe we ought to do game 
changing. The way to do away with our addiction is not to do more of 
the same so that we are still addicted. That makes precious little 
sense to me.