# IRAQ
## `82997b51e25a8f0e40fbfcf6b309c99b`
`Mr. DORGAN — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I appreciate the words of my colleague 
from Illinois. This debate we are trying to have is actually a debate 
about a debate. This must be the only place, the only real estate in 
the United States of America in which, rather than having a debate 
about the war and strategy, we are having a debate about whether we 
should debate it. It is pretty unbelievable.

This is called the greatest deliberative body in the world. It is an 
unbelievable privilege for me to be here. I came from a very small town 
of about 300 people, a high school class of 9. I am here in the 
greatest deliberative body in the world. I am enormously proud to be 
here. But I came here not to avoid debate but to engage in debate, to 
talk about this country and its future.

There is an old saying: When everyone is thinking the same thing, no 
one is thinking very much. There is a desire in this Chamber by some 
who have spoken that we all be thinking the same thing about these 
issues, that we all support President Bush and whatever his strategies 
might be and wherever he might take us. This Congress has a 
constitutional role to play, and the constitutional role is not to 
decide to come to the floor from Monday through Friday to support the 
President of the United States, it is to come to the floor of the 
Senate to support this country and its interests as best we see those 
interests.

Some long while ago, I went to a veterans hospital on a Sunday 
morning and I presented medals to a veteran. His name was Edmund Young 
Eagle. He was an American Indian. He had fought in the Second World 
War, had gone all around the world, had fought in northern Africa, 
fought at Normandy, fought across Europe, and came back to live on the 
Indian reservation. He never married, never had very much. He loved to 
play baseball. But he had kind of a tough life. At the end of Edmund 
Young Eagle's life, this man who served his country, at the end of his 
life he was dying of lung cancer. He was in the veterans hospital in 
Fargo, ND, and his sister called and said her brother Edmund Young 
Eagle had proudly served his country and had never received the medals 
for his service in the Second World War.

Would you get him his medals, she asked?

I said, Of course I will.

So I achieved getting the medals he earned but never received from 
the Pentagon, and I went to the VA hospital on a Sunday morning to 
present medals to Edmund Young Eagle, a Native American, one of those 
first Americans who served this country and then went home and lived 
quietly.

When I went to his room that morning, Edmund Young Eagle was very 
sick. I didn't know it at the time, but he would die within a week or 
so. We cranked up the hospital bed for Edmund Young Eagle so he was in 
a sitting position, and I pinned his World War II medals on his pajama 
tops and told him that his country was grateful for his serving our 
country in the Second World War.

This man, very sick, looked up at me and said: This is one of the 
proudest days of my life.

This man who lived in a spartan way, never having very much but 
served this country with honor, felt great gratitude at the end of his 
life for a country recognizing what he had done for us. That is the 
life of a soldier, someone who commits himself or herself to answer 
their country's call without question. So many have done it.

I will attend a funeral this week of a young man killed in Iraq. I 
received a call this morning from a mother, the mother of a soldier who 
spent a year in Iraq and returned with very difficult circumstances--
post-traumatic stress, all kinds of difficult emotional problems--who 
just this week received the alert notice that his reserve unit will 
likely be called up again.

This is about war. It is about commitment. It is about our soldiers. 
It is about our country and our future. Some say we should not talk 
about that, we should not debate it. If that is the case, this is the 
only real estate, this is the only room in America where it is not 
being discussed and debated. It is being debated in the homes, in the 
restaurants, in the gymnasiums, in the schools, in the office. It ought 
to be debated here as well. This has a profound impact on our country 
and its future.


Make no mistake about it, our military has won every battle it has 
fought. Our military will win the battles they fight. But winning 
military battles does not win the war in Iraq. We disapprove of 
President Bush's plan to deepen our escalation in Iraq because it is a 
military response to a problem that must be resolved through diplomacy 
and through negotiation. The civil war and the violence in Iraq is only 
going to stop when there is genuine reconciliation between groups in 
Iraq.

Let's think through what we have done in Iraq. Through our soldiers' 
blood and our Treasury, we sent troops to Iraq. The Iraqi leader, 
Saddam Hussein, is dead. Good riddance, I say. We have unearthed mass 
graves in Iraq showing that hundreds of thousands of


Iraqis were murdered by a dictator. But Saddam Hussein was executed. 
The country of Iraq was able to vote for its own new Constitution. The 
country of Iraq voted for its own Government. That is very substantial 
progress.

But the next step has not shown much progress. The next step is this: 
Do the Iraqi people have the will to provide for their own security? 
This is their country, not ours. Iraq belongs to them, not us. The 
question is, Do the Iraqi people have the will to provide for their 
security? If they do not, this country cannot and will not be able to 
do that for any length of time. That is the question. Do they have the 
will to take back their country?

Iraqi leaders are going to have to make very difficult decisions, 
political decisions in some cases which may undermine their own power 
and their own base of support. But it is the only way this is going to 
be resolved. The sectarian violence that exists in Iraq today can trace 
its roots in some cases back to the year 700 A.D. This violence is not 
going to dissipate soon unless there is reconciliation between the 
factions. This requires Iraqi troops to fight their ethnic and 
religious allies who are part of the insurgency as well as fight their 
opponents. It requires Iraqi security, Iraqi police, and Iraqi troops 
to provide for the security of the whole country of Iraq.

The resolution we want to debate is a resolution which does not say 
we don't support our troops. Clearly we support our troops. We support 
our troops with everything we believe is necessary for their safety and 
security and for them to do their jobs the way we expect them to do 
their jobs. This Congress, every man and every woman, supports 
America's troops and prays for their safe return.

This resolution says we support our troops but we do not agree with 
President Bush in his desire to deepen our involvement in Iraq. Some 
come to the floor of the Senate and say: Your position on this 
emboldens the enemy. It is a message to embolden the enemy. It sends 
the wrong message to our troops.

It is neither of those. It is a message from the Congress of the 
United States to the President, and that message is we do not support 
his proposal to deepen our involvement in the war in Iraq.

A blue ribbon commission was put together, of some of the best 
thinkers, foreign policy and military thinkers in our country, headed 
by James Baker and Lee Hamilton, very distinguished Americans. That 
group included former Secretaries of State and military leaders and 
some outstanding thinkers. They worked for months, many months, to 
develop a plan. We all understand the alternatives are not good in 
Iraq. We understand that. If there were an easy way to deal with this, 
believe me, it would have been dealt with. In many ways, we found a box 
canyon in Iraq, and it is hard to get out of a box canyon.

The Baker-Hamilton report represented a consensus of some of the best 
thinkers in our country, having worked months on this problem. The 
President chose to ignore that report. The President says he is the 
decider.

You know, the Constitution says something about that as well. I agree 
with my colleagues that we can't have 100 or 535 commanders in chief. I 
understand that. But I also understand that the Constitution has a role 
for the Congress. Only the Congress can declare war--only the Congress. 
Yes, the President is Commander in Chief, but only the Congress can 
declare war. Only the Congress has the power of the purse.

The question is, What do we do about what is now happening in Iraq? 
No other country that I am aware of, in what the President has called 
the coalition of the willing, has decided they are going to deepen 
their involvement or expand their troops to Iraq. No other country. 
Even Great Britain, the strongest supporter of President Bush's Iraq 
policy, has refused to increase their troop strength in Iraq. In fact, 
the British news reports say that Britain intends to have all or most 
of its troops withdrawn by the end of 2007. None of our allies, old or 
new, of which I am aware, have decided the proper approach at this 
point, given the sectarian involvement in Iraq, is to deepen their 
involvement and increase their troop strength in Iraq.

The President is saying we should surge some additional troops to 
Iraq. We have done that before. In early 2004, we surged 20,000 
additional troops. A similar one happened in the fall of 2005. Most 
recently, last summer the President announced that thousands of 
additional troops would be surged into Baghdad. What happened as a 
result of that was the violence increased, and deaths and injuries to 
American troops went up. So we have seen some examples of a surge, and 
the examples have not been very helpful. In fact, it has been 
counterproductive.

This map is a map of the city of Baghdad--about 4 million to 6 
million people, about 250 square miles. We have people in this city who 
have grievances that go back 1,300 and 1,400 years. The Shia and the 
Sunni religious split occurred in the seventh century, and they have 
clashed frequently since then.

This country is not put together by natural borders. This country was 
put together by a pen and paper, by a decision 90 years ago of how to 
draw the borders of this country. This was a diplomatic decision, that 
this should be the country of Iraq.

Let me describe what is happening now in this city. We have areas 
that are Shia areas and Sunni areas, and now we have areas that are 
turning Shia and turning Sunni. In many ways, you will see from this 
map the dramatic evidence of violence in this capital city of Iraq. It 
is getting worse, not better.

I mentioned that some of the hatred goes back 1,400 years. But a more 
recent example, in a story I was reading about Iraq, a Shiite was 
recently driven from his home and farm by the Sunnis who killed his 
brother and nephew, and he was so bitter and angry, he said, ''A 
volcano of revenge has built up inside. I want to rip them up with my 
teeth.'' It is this hatred which fuels a civil war and the atrocities 
that occur nearly every day.

Saturday, February 3, saw the deadliest single suicide bombing since 
the war began nearly 4 years ago, with 130 people killed and more than 
300 wounded. It was the fourth major attack against a densely populated 
Shia area in less than 3 weeks. On the Thursday before, twin suicide 
bombers struck a market jammed with people--60 killed, 150 
wounded. Again, 60 killed, 150 wounded; spraying body parts so far that 
police were scouring rooftops late in the night for body parts. A few 
days before that, 75 people killed in Baghdad's Shia neighborhoods in 
multiple bombings; 160 wounded. The day before that, 3 car bombs 
detonated within minutes of each other at the vegetable market. More 
than 1,000 Iraqis were killed in the last week of January. We are told 
there were 3,000 killed in the last 3 weeks. Unbelievably, it seems to 
me, they pick up bodies in the middle of the morning in Baghdad from 
the night's carnage with holes drilled in their kneecaps, holes drilled 
in their skulls. These are unbelievable signs of torture. These are 
acts of unimaginable violence committed against others. No one is safe, 
nowhere is safe, and this violence pervades nearly every aspect of 
daily life.


The question I think the President proposes with his suggestion of a 
surge of an additional 20,000 or 21,000 troops in Baghdad poses is: 
Will additional troops in Baghdad on street corners, going door to 
door, embedded with the troops, with the security of the Iraqi 
Government, stem the violence? The answer is likely no. We have seen 
this attempted previously and it did not stem the violence; the 
violence increased.

Let me make another point I think is important. No one has made, I 
think, the point that this troop escalation, whatever it is, is 
temporary. The United States troops are leaving Iraq. The question is 
when, not if. At some point, United States troops will leave Iraq. The 
question is: Will we leave in a time that gives us the opportunity to 
turn the country of Iraq back to the Iraqi people and say, this is your 
job to provide for your security.

Let me talk about the National Intelligence Estimate. The National 
Intelligence Estimate was done with 16 intelligence agencies. They 
spent the last 5 months analyzing the situation in Iraq, reviewed by 
the head of the CIA, the head of the intelligence units at the 
Pentagon, State Department, Justice Department, and the Director of 
National Intelligence, our most senior intelligence official. Some of 
it is top secret, but some was released publicly. Let me read 
something:







 Even if violence is diminished, given the current winner-


 take-all attitude and sectarian animosities affecting the 


 political scene, Iraqi leaders will be hard-pressed to 


 achieve sustained political reconciliation in this time 


 frame.


Continuing to quote:




 Iraq's neighbors are influenced by the events within Iraq, 


 but the involvement of these outside actors is not likely to 


 be a major driver of violence or the prospect for stability 


 because of the self-sustaining character of Iraq's internal 


 sectarian dynamics.


That is a fancy way to describe the civil war.

I might say the last National Intelligence Estimate was done was in 
2004 and it detailed 3 possible outcomes for Iraq over the next 18 
months, which at the time would put us in the fall or winter of 2006. 
The worst-case scenario for the previous NIE was a civil war. Well, 
that is what the 2007 National Intelligence Estimate says has now 
happened. That is right; what is going on in Iraq now is the worst-case 
scenario of the previous National Intelligence Estimate.

Let me make a couple of other points, if I might. General Abizaid 
just over 2 months ago came to the Congress and here is what he said:




 I met with every divisional commander, General Casey, the 


 Corps Commander, General Dempsey, and I said, ''In your 


 professional opinion, if we were to bring in more American 


 troops now, does it add considerably to our ability to 


 achieve success in Iraq? And they said no.''


This is our top military commander testifying to the Senate just over 
2 months ago: They said no.

Now, here is why General Abizaid said the commanders did not believe 
they should have additional troops brought into Iraq:




 The reason is because we want the Iraqis to do more. It is 


 easy for the Iraqis to rely upon us to do this work. I 


 believe that more American forces prevent the Iraqis from 


 doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 


 future. The only way Iraq works in the future is for the 


 Iraqis to take more responsibility for that future. That is 


 what General Abizaid said. He was right then; he is right 


 now. This is the testimony heard by the Senate just over 2 


 months ago. Interestingly enough, as a side note, just 2 


 weeks ago--3 weeks ago, John Negroponte, the head of the 


 intelligence in this country at that time said this in open 


 testimony to the Senate:



 The greatest terrorist threat to America is al-Qaida and 


 its network around the world.


The greatest terrorist threat to our country is al-Qaida and its 
network around the world, and he said they operate from a ''secure 
hideaway'' in Pakistan. If that is the case, if the greatest terrorist 
threat to our country is al-Qaida operating from a ''secure hideaway'' 
in Pakistan, and that comes from the head of our intelligence service 
in this country in open testimony to the Senate, if there are 21,000 
additional American troops available to surge somewhere, why on Earth 
would we not choose to move those troops through Afghanistan near to 
Pakistan to eliminate the leadership of al-Qaida, the greatest 
terrorist threat to our country? I do not understand the priorities 
coming from the administration. There has to be a change. We all 
understand that. We know Iraq is a different place. The various sects, 
tribes, religions, in some cases do not speak to each other, and in 
many cases don't trust each other. In other cases, they hate each 
other, and in too many cases, they kill each other.

That is what must change. It is why reconciliation is the key. It is 
why more U.S. troops are not going to make a difference.


Does anyone believe that if we go back 4 years and the President 
brought a proposition to the floor of the Senate and said: Look, we 
have a civil war in Iraq. What we ought to do is send more American 
troops to the middle of that civil war, or at least begin sending 
American troops to the middle of that civil war because we don't 
believe after 3 years of training that the Iraqi people are prepared to 
provide for their security, does anybody believe we would think it a 
good strategy to send additional troops to the middle of a civil war? I 
don't believe so.

I understand there are very different opinions here in this Chamber, 
and I respect them. I wouldn't diminish anyone in this Chamber for 
holding any views on this subject. I understand their passions. I share 
their passions. But I don't understand this: I don't understand how it 
is that this great body has to spend days debating whether we will have 
a debate. This is, after all, a debate about the motion to proceed. 
This isn't a debate about Iraq or Iraq strategy; it is about whether we 
can proceed to a motion on that subject. It is a debate about whether 
we can debate. If there is any space left in this country in which this 
debate should take place, it ought to be this space on this floor, this 
real estate. This is the great deliberative body. I do not for the life 
of me understand a vote against cloture that says: No, we believe the 
United States should not debate this issue. This is an issue the 
American people care a great deal about, and it is long past the time, 
in my judgment, for us to have this debate.

We are all united, I think, in loving this country. We want what is 
best for this country. We want to protect the American troops. We want 
our country to succeed. All of us want all of those things. I don't 
believe anybody who says we are undermining this or that or anything of 
that sort. All that is nonsense. This country deserves from this Senate 
a thoughtful, serious, real debate about what is happening that affects 
every part of American life, and that is the struggle we are involved 
in with respect to Iraq. The American people deserve this debate, and I 
hope that tomorrow when we have a vote on the motion to proceed, we 
will have the opportunity to proceed from that motion to a debate on 
the underlying petition that is on the floor of the Senate with respect 
to the subject of the war in Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.