# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `82b975cde8393ac31e0a77b7ce73f539`
`Mr. KINGSTON â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution, 
but I do appreciate Mr. Kucinich for bringing it up. And I think it is 
proper to debate this. I am a member of the Appropriations Committee. 
And many years ago in committee we voted to support the Skaggs 
amendment to an appropriations rule that would have put the war powers 
in effect during something in the Clinton administration, but I don't 
remember what the


skirmish was. So I think it is appropriate for us to debate this. 
However, I think the timing is not exactly optimal, particularly with 
troops in the field.

I also want to point out that it does appear to me that if the 
Democrat leadership was serious about this, they would have allowed 
hearings in the committee, and they should have had a committee vote 
rather than just put it on the House floor. But I am glad that you 
brought it up, and I know your absolute sincerity in this.

I also want to point out to you, as somebody who voted ''no'' on the 
litany I am about to give on spending, that if we are looking for 
money, perhaps in May of '08 we should not have passed a stimulus 
program of $168 billion; in July of 2008, a $200 billion bailout of 
Fannie Mae; in August '08, $85 billion by the Federal Reserve for AIG, 
which is now up to $140 billion; and in November of '08, $700 billion 
for the TARP bailout; and in January of '09, $787 billion for a 
stimulus program which was designed to keep us from getting to 8 
percent unemployment, and we are now pushing 10 percent unemployment. 
That was followed by a $410 billion omnibus spending bill. And then we 
had in December of '09, a $165 billion jobs program. So we're spending 
a lot of money. And there's a lot of it out there.

But I would suggest if we're looking for money, what we need to do is 
get out of the bailout business, from General Motors to the banks. And 
I think we could find a lot of money on a bipartisan basis. And I know 
the gentleman is one of the strongest critics of corporate welfare, and 
yet that is what we have spent 2 years doing, Democrats and Republicans 
alike. I won't say it started with President Obama.

I do want to say this about the troops in the field. And I do respect 
your support of troops. I just got back from Afghanistan. I was there 
Saturday, and I was in Pakistan Sunday, meeting with General 
McChrystal, meeting with our leadership on the ground over there. We do 
have a new strategy. It is shape, clear, hold, build, and transfer. And 
in our first muscle movement under this, as you know we went to Marja, 
we went to the Helmand Province, and we had a military victory. But 
rather than leave it there, we have now worked on a successful civilian 
transfer to make sure that the Afghanis are ready to take on this new 
conquered territory.

Karzai was briefed from the beginning on the battle for Marja. One-
third of the troops were Afghanis. They fought shoulder to shoulder 
with the coalition forces. The governor of the Helmand province was 
briefed. There is a new police force that is coming in there to crack 
down on the corruption in the Afghan police force, because that is one 
of the problems.