---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `82bb518108aaf39e08147ff5c4a93bb1`
`Mr. GRAYSON — 10 June 2009`

---


Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, I had the experience of going to 
Afghanistan a couple of years ago.

This bill has to do with whether we should try to keep track of our 
policies in Afghanistan on Afghan women. And when I went to Afghanistan 
2 years ago before I was elected here to Congress, I saw some 
interesting things.

One thing is if you're on the street of Afghanistan, everywhere you 
look there are children--because hardly any of them are in school any 
time of the year--and as a result of that, you see more children on the 
streets of an Afghan city or town than you would almost anywhere else 
in the world. And I noticed something interesting about the girls. If 
you see an 8-year-old Afghan girl, she looks just like an 8-year-old 
boy dressed the same way, playing the same way with the same friends. 
If you see a 9-year-old Afghan girl, her arms are covered. If you see a 
10-year-old Afghan girl, her arms and her head are covered. And you 
don't see 12-year-old Afghan girls or 13- or 14- or 15- or 16- or 17-
year-old Afghan girls. They're just not there.

And if you look around the streets at the adults, you'll see maybe 10 
men for every woman that you will see on the streets. And the reason 
for that is that in Afghanistan, women are forbidden to leave their 
homes unless they're accompanied by a husband, a brother, a father, or 
a son. And the women who do leave their homes in Afghanistan are 
covered head to toe. They can barely see you because their faces are 
covered and eyes covered with a grill like this so they can just barely 
see out. They're covered from head to toe, and all you can see of their 
bodies are their shoes, nothing else.

That is the life of women in Afghanistan. It is a living hell. And I 
think it's fitting and appropriate that we who have occupied the 
country militarily for years now should take a look at the effect of 
our policies on Afghan women. I'm very much in favor of this amendment 
because it's a matter of human rights.