# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `82bf70cca8cb76ef1367377a9373998f`
`Mr. ROSS — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from New York for his insight on his 
recent return from a trip to Iraq.

I was last there August 11, 2004, when we had the 39th Brigade from 
Arkansas' National Guard there. Now they're ready to go back, and I 
hope to be able to go back while they're there because the least we can 
do is go there when our troops are there from our respective districts 
and let them know that we support them and make sure that some of this 
millions of dollars is being spent on providing them the very best 
equipment that technology and money can afford to buy.

What we're talking about this evening is the cost of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. The gentleman from New York is absolutely correct, we need a 
new direction in Iraq. Basically, we're there fighting their civil war 
for them. And as long as they're shooting at us instead of shooting at 
one another, there is no incentive for them to learn how to get along. 
No one fought our Civil War for us, and I'm absolutely convinced that 
the only people that can decide the fate of Iraq are the Iraqi people.

We have had a lot of victories there. We went there because of 
weapons of mass destruction. We now know there are no weapons of mass 
destruction. It's debatable whether there ever was or not, but that's 
an issue that we can debate all night. But hindsight is 20/20. We 
stayed until Saddam was removed from power. We stayed until he was 
brought to justice and executed. Clearly, he was an evil dictator. We 
have evil dictators all over the world, many of whom remain in power 
today. We stayed until a new Iraqi Government was installed. We stayed 
and tried to train their police and military force. And yet this 
administration continues to move the goal post on our soldiers. And so 
how many victories are they going to have to accomplish before we allow 
them to come home and allow the Iraq people to decide the fate of their 
own country?

The cost of Operation Iraqi Freedom, this is one statistic that is 
not debatable. You want to know how well it's going? In 2003, we spent 
$53 billion of your tax money in Iraq. In 2004, that increased to $75.9 
billion. In 2005, that increased to $84.7 billion. In 2006, that 
increased to $101.7 billion. And in 2007, $135.2 billion so far. The 
administration is getting ready to come back here shortly for more. 
That's $11.3 billion a month, that's $370 million a day. You do the 
math. That's between 15 and $16 million an hour of your tax money going 
to Iraq and, as Congressman Donnelly mentioned, much of which is 
unaccounted for.

At this time, I yield to my friend, fellow Blue Dog member from my 
neighboring State of Tennessee, and that's Lincoln Davis, an active 
member of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition 
that's never afraid to speak his mind. We're glad to have him here with 
us this evening. And sorry about Tennessee's loss this Saturday. We're 
looking forward to playing y'all in football.