---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `82c71a9f96c8504f4303e60f0fd551ff`
`Mr. REID — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I rise in support of the passage of H.R. 
3326, the fiscal year 2010 Defense appropriations bill.

The legislation before us will fund critical priorities in the 
Department of Defense designed to protect our Nation from current 
threats and develop cutting-edge warfighting technologies for the 
future. It will provide the essential resources, equipment, and support 
for the nearly 200,000 military servicemembers now serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. And it will fund more than $89 million in projects to 
create jobs in Nevada and help support Nevada's role in keeping our 
country safe.

During the course of the Senate's debate on this bill, we considered 
an amendment relating to U.S. operations in Afghanistan. The Obama 
administration is currently in the midst of an extremely important 
examination of our strategy in Afghanistan.

Getting that strategy right is critical. To make sure we have the 
right strategy, the President has rightly undertaken consultation with 
a wide range of military, civilian, and intelligence community 
officials, as well as with Members of Congress.

The amendment we considered was an attempt to cut off those 
discussions, to force the President's hand. This amendment was the 
wrong approach at the wrong time.

Right now, there are hundreds of servicemembers and civilians from my 
home State of Nevada serving courageously in Afghanistan. Many of these 
troops have been serving in the military since the 9-11 terrorist 
attacks on our country.

These troops have, in many cases, been deployed overseas three, four, 
and sometimes even five times. That means 3, 4, or more years that they 
have been taken away from their families and loved ones during the last 
8 years.

Many of them have missed the births of their children, or their 
babies' first steps. Many have been pulled away from their civilian 
jobs, and have taken significant pay cuts. And, unfortunately, many 
troops in Nevada and throughout the Nation have made the ultimate 
sacrifice in service to our mission in Afghanistan.

We owe these troops a rigorous and deliberative debate on the proper 
strategy in Afghanistan. We owe it to them to make sure we have 
examined every possible option so that we give them the best chance to 
win and to stay out of harm's way. To rush this process is to undercut 
the President's effort to protect to accomplish these objectives.

Unfortunately, a number of Senators have sought to do just that. They 
have called for military commanders to begin testifying about our 
strategy in Afghanistan before that strategy is set by the Commander in 
Chief. That approach is a blatant attempt to force the President's 
hand, to circumvent the rigorous, deliberative review that a decision 
of this magnitude demands. It would short-circuit the administration's 
review of our Afghanistan strategy, and it would cut many important 
voices out of the picture. Our troops and our national security cannot 
afford such a rash step.

Now, I agree that GEN Stanley McChrystal, Commander of U.S. Forces in 
Afghanistan, should testify to Congress about our strategy in 
Afghanistan. But, as his counterpart, GEN David Petraeus, did when this 
Chamber was debating our strategy in Iraq, I think it is appropriate 
for that testimony to occur after his Commander in Chief has arrived at 
a decision.

In the last several days, I have had the opportunity to meet with 
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and GEN Jim Jones, the President's 
National Security Adviser, to discuss the questions now facing us on 
Afghanistan. Today, I had the opportunity, along with several of my 
colleagues, to have a similar discussion with the President.

All three of these officials have made it clear that they are in the 
midst of a vigorous, healthy discussion in which military commanders, 
including General Petraeus and General McChrystal, have key seats at 
the table. They are working through a disciplined and deliberate 
process in which they will determine a strategy that will best advance 
the security interests of the United States and then determine the 
appropriate resources to allocate in implementing that strategy.

Talking about changes in troop levels or other resources before we 
have worked out the right strategy simply puts the cart before the 
horse. Now is not the time for such an irresponsible approach. Now is 
the time for all the best minds on the administration's national 
security team to take a hard look at our policy in Afghanistan, free 
from politics and other interference, and make sure we get it right.

As we move forward in this debate, my foremost priority will be to 
ensure that, no matter what the strategy, the brave servicemembers from 
Nevada and across America who are serving in Afghanistan have the 
support and resources they need to succeed in their mission. I am 
confident that the bill before us today takes an important step toward 
that goal, and I urge my colleagues to support it.