# IN RECOGNITION OF CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER SCOTT A.M. OSWELL
## `82d50b70933ecd2b20ffc34a60abf6e8`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of CWO 
Scott A.M. Oswell, who passed away on July 4, 2007, in Mosul, Iraq, in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Chief Warrant Officer Oswell died 
of injuries sustained when his helicopter crashed while trying to save 
another man's life.

Scott's wife and three children reside in Olympia, Washington, and 
his parents, Barry and Nancy, reside in Colorado Springs, Colorado.

Chief Warrant Officer Oswell enlisted in the Marine Corps following 
high school, and later joined the Army.

During his time in the Army, Chief Warrant Officer Oswell was 
selected for flight training, and earned his instructor pilot rating on 
the Kiowa Warrior helicopter. He was not only a skilled pilot, but also 
a first-class soldier, who earned several medals throughout his career. 
A distinguished member of the Sergeant Audie Murphy Club, the selective 
organization which honors members of the military who demonstrate 
leadership, professionalism, and care for their soldiers' welfare, 
Chief Warrant Officer Oswell embodied all of these ideas.

Chief Warrant Officer Oswell comes from a military family dedicated 
to serving this country to ensure the ideals of liberty and democracy, 
which we hold so dear.

He was a remarkable soldier, a devoted husband and a proud father, 
who served the Nation he loved sacrificing his life for our security 
and freedom. On a day when we celebrate the birth of our country, Chief 
Warrant


Officer Oswell paid the ultimate price, and for that we are eternally 
grateful.

I thank CWO Scott A.M. Oswell for his service to our country and 
offer my deepest heartfelt condolences to his family.
