---
---

# None
## `82e18ef6755f4b4e089a3629d45758a7`
`Mr. OBEY — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, let me simply point out, Mr. Speaker, that in 
addition to the fact that we have effectively endured filibuster by 
amendment by the minority for the past 3 weeks, in addition to that 
fact, we have two other practical facts to face.

When we took over this Congress, we had to deal with last year's 
budget because the folks who controlled the Congress last time just 
didn't happen to get around to passing the appropriations bills last 
time. So we had to spend the first month of this session doing the work 
that they left over from the last session. They had passed not a single 
portion of the domestic part of the budget. They had not passed a 
single domestic appropriation bill. So first we had to run that cleanup 
brigade.

Then we had to deal with the fact that in order to hide the full cost 
of the war, the President declined to request funding for the Iraqi war 
in the regular defense bill which was supposed to be finished last 
year. So we had to take the next 3/1/2/ months to clean up that mess 
left over from last year. So I would say it is really the pot calling 
the kettle black to somehow suggest that the majority party has failed 
in its responsibility because it has not met a so-called mythical 
promise.

We laid out what the plan was, and given the fact that the first 4 
months of this session was essentially spent cleaning up their mess, I 
think we have done pretty well.