# THE STIMULUS
## `82e299c4f6d617bbc01d42208f26d03f`
`Mr. BROWN â€” 24 January 2008`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, first of all, I thank the Senator from Iowa 
for his terrific work on advocating for those who are most victimized 
by this recession, the elderly who need help on their heating and 
weatherization of their homes, the people who need food stamps, people 
who have lost their jobs, people who have lost their health


insurance, people who are struggling the most. I wish to thank Senator 
Harkin for his work.

I wish to tell a story that I think illustrates the hardship among 
middle-class Americans, middle-class Ohioans, people who have worked 
hard, played by the rules, have seen their unemployment run out, or 
seen their job lost or seen the prices of gasoline and home heating and 
food go so high that they cannot afford the middle-class lifestyle or 
even the subsistence living that has afflicted their lives.

I mentioned this story on the floor a couple times, but it so much 
illustrates Senator Harkin's words and Senator Harkin's solutions of 
extending unemployment, that gets money in people's pockets quickly; of 
helping with food banks and food stamps and LIHEAP and all that.

Congress's response needs to be twofold. We need to stimulate the 
economy, and the House version is a start, it is a good start, and we 
need to help those who are most victimized by the recession.

In Logan, OH, in Hocking County, a county halfway between Columbus in 
Central Ohio and Athens on the Ohio River, in Logan, OH, a southeast 
Appalachian county, on a cold December day about a month ago, at 3:30 
in the morning people began to line up outside the United Methodist in 
Logan, the county seat of Hocking County, to get food. It was 3:30 in 
the morning on a cold winter day. By 8 o'clock, cars were snaked around 
the church and the neighborhood and up and down the streets when the 
food panty opened. By 1 o'clock in the afternoon, 2,000 people--2,000 
people in a county of about 30,000--7 percent of the county, had come 
to this food pantry.

Many of those in this county had driven 20, 25 or 30 minutes to get 
there, a county that has had problems in the past but a county where 
that food bank served only a few dozen people 3 or 4 or 5 years ago.

Across the State, in Warren County, a relatively affluent community 
overall, a larger county northeast of Cincinnati down in southwest 
Ohio, the head of the United Way told me 90 percent of their people who 
come to their food pantries in their county, 90 percent of the people 
have jobs.

The mayor of Denver told a group of us, the Presiding Officer was 
there, that 40 percent of the homeless people in greater Denver are 
employed. Underemployed, perhaps, employed obviously in low-wage jobs.

Tim, a gentleman from Cleveland, used to donate time and money to the 
local food bank and soup kitchen. He is still employed, but the costs 
were consuming him and his family. He quit giving money to the food 
bank but continued to volunteer there. Now he is in a position where he 
relies on those resources himself. He said he used to be middle class, 
but he does not consider himself middle class any more because his 
wages have not kept pace with the cost of basic needs such as food, 
heat, and shelter.

He spoke of the great humility it took to go to the food bank for his 
own household. He said it is merely a drop in the bucket compared to 
what his family needs.

Today my office received an alarming e-mail from Ohio's Second 
Harvest. Second Harvest is a group of food banks that serve our State. 
The e-mail mail explained that Second Harvest Food Bank of Southeastern 
Ohio, which serves the area where Logan is, the community I mentioned 
earlier, is nearly out of food. For the fourth time in just over a 
year, the e-mail said, they have come very close to closing their 
doors; there is no relief in sight.

This problem is not unique to Ohio, it is affecting cities all over 
this country. It is affecting rural areas, large cities, small towns, 
and suburbs. No community seems to be immune from this.

That is why our efforts are so very important. Senator Harkin had a 
chart that showed the importance of putting money directly into the 
pockets of those who are most afflicted by this recession. That means 
people who go to food banks; it means people on food stamps; it means 
people who have problems paying their heating bill; it means people 
whose unemployment has run out.

I appreciate the House action. As I said, the House has a good start, 
putting money into the pockets directly of middle-class taxpayers, of 
working families. But we need to do more. The best thing we can do 
while we want to stimulate the economy, the best thing we can do is 
extend unemployment compensation. Because that money will be spent by 
those people who are hurting because they lost their job, they cannot 
find work, and their unemployment has run out.

Our proposal of $40 million that I introduced back in December may 
need to be more than that, but that would be a good start, to get 
people over December, January, February as these food banks have run 
out of food. That $40 million spread around the country will matter, as 
these food banks say they are in the worst shape than any time in the 
last 20 years. They are in worse shape because grocery stores donate 
less because they are more efficient, they damage fewer cans, they have 
less oversupply or waste that they donated to food banks in the past.

Obviously, the demand on these food banks is so much greater than it 
has been. Again, I would also add that donations are down in January. 
They always are after Christmas. People, as generous as they are at 
Christmas, sometimes sort of forget in January, so they are not getting 
help from the individuals and the community. Of course, the demands on 
those food banks are higher.

So that stimulus package, while a good start in the House, putting 
money in the pockets of middle-class Americans and working Americans, 
needs to go further and needing to go further is helping the most 
afflicted, pained, the people who need it most and have been victims of 
this recession.

As Senator Harkin said, that money will then be spent in our 
communities with American-made products and will have a very good 
multiplying effect for jump-starting our economy.

No one should go hungry in the richest country in the world. We are 
spending $3 billion a week on the war in Iraq. The tax cuts the 
President gave over the last 6 years resulted in huge numbers of 
dollars to the richest people, the richest 1 percent in this country. 
It is time we dealt with some of the problems that are hurting people 
in Steubenville and Lima and Zanesville and Dayton and Cleveland and 
Akron and Youngstown and Warren in my State.

So I ask, as this bill comes to the Senate after House passage, that 
we look seriously at the proposal Senator Harkin had to take care of 
food stamps and food banks, to extend unemployment benefits, to take 
care of seniors who simply cannot meet their heating bills as the 
winter moves on.
