---
---

# RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
## `82f7fbb9df3c6e7f779b3d2df8887ea0`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H. Res. 643, 
the September 11 resolution. I honor the memory of those who died on 
September 11 and extend sympathies to their family members and to those 
who lost their lives trying to save lives. And I support the troops.

I believe the best way to honor the memory of those who died on 
September 11 is to tell the truth of what the Administration did in the 
wake of September 11. The Bush Administration launched a war against 
Iraq, conflating the true tragedy of September 11 with lies about 
weapons of mass destruction.

On this, the sixth anniversary of September 11, it is important that 
Congress wake up to the truth and exercise its obligation under the 
Constitution to save our nation from being destroyed from the lies that 
took us into Iraq, the lies that keep us there, the lies that are being 
used to set the stage for war against Iran and the lies that have 
undermined our basic civil liberties here at home. The September 11 
resolution that Congress considers today should have made reference to 
those matters. It does not, so I cannot support it.

This Administration long ago politicized the September 11 attacks, 
distorted it, and dishonored it. If Congress really wanted to honor the 
memory of those who died on September 11, we would cause the full truth 
to be told to the American people. If Congress really supported our 
troops we would bring them home and not provide more funding for the 
war.

