---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 (CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008)
## `8304f43999c4dea99bdaf628b52e57cc`
`Mr. OBEY — 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I want to express my appreciation for the tremendous 
work done by the entire staff. It's already been mentioned by the 
gentleman from California. I want to publicly express my gratitude to 
the entire staff on both sides of the aisle as well as the associate 
staff and especially Rob Nabors, our staff director on the committee.

I don't think Members sufficiently appreciate how many nights in a 
row these staff people go without sleep. These people have literally 
been here virtually around the clock for the last 3 days. It's a 
miracle that they don't make some major mistakes.

I also want to express our special concern tonight for Dixon Butler, 
a staffer who has served the committee very well who underwent some 
very serious surgery yesterday. I think it's safe to say that Members 
on both sides of the aisle are very concerned about him, and we hope 
he'll take all the time he needs to get well.

I also want to make a few remarks to put this bill in context, 
because it is the major domestic achievement of the Congress for this 
year.

Last year, Mr. Speaker, in November, the public sent two messages. 
One was that they wanted to end the war in Iraq. The second was that 
they wanted a change in national priorities. We have struggled mightily 
to bring about both, and we have failed for two reasons. Number one, 
because we have not had enough votes in the Senate. The public thinks 
that my party has control of the United States Senate. Unfortunately, 
we merely have custody of it. Under their peculiar rules, they require 
60 percent of the votes to make a major decision. We only have 51 
percent of those votes on our side of the aisle in the Senate.

The second reason that we have failed to accomplish a good many 
things that we wanted to accomplish is because the President, after the 
election, essentially told the American people, Forget what message you 
thought you were sending. I'm the great decider. We're going to 
continue to do things my way. And that is what he has tried to do.

The result is that we have passed bills to try to change direction in 
Iraq twice. The President vetoed one of them, and he has blocked action 
on the other one in the United States Senate. He has insisted that we 
spend nearly $200 billion more for Iraq, but he said at the same time 
that we could not afford one-tenth that amount for crucial investments 
here at home.

We sent appropriation bills containing 70 percent of domestic 
discretionary spending to the President. On a bipartisan basis we sent 
those bills down. We averaged almost 60 Republican votes. He chose the 
veto path instead, and so only the Defense appropriation bill has 
become law.

He has insisted that he write the top line in the budget. If we did 
that, we would have cut 800 grants from the National Institutes of 
Health. We would have cut access to health care by $600 million. We 
would have cut rural health by 54 percent, vocational education by 50 
percent. We would have eliminated every student aid program except Pell 
Grant and Work-Study. We would have cut the State and local law 
enforcement grants by $1.2 billion. We would have cut deeply into 
renewable energy.

We sent to him legislation which had very different priorities. He 
vetoed it. Next we asked, Why don't we split the difference? Why don't 
we go halfway to the President and have him come halfway to us? His 
response was, No way.

So now, as the majority leader has said, we're at the end of the 
road. This is the last chance to produce a set of domestic priorities 
that are different from those the President proposes.

In my view, this bill is totally inadequate to meet the long-term 
investment needs of the country, but it is a whole lot better than 
would have been the case if we had not waged the fight. Because of that 
fight, this bill will contain $600 million more than the President 
wanted for the National Institutes of Health. It will contain $1 
billion more than the President wanted for community health centers and 
other points of health care access. It will contain $150 million more 
to help rural communities deal with their health problems. It will 
contain $150 million more for the Social Security Administration to 
deal with its disability backlogs. It will contain $800 million more in 
elementary and secondary education than the President wanted. It will 
provide $575 million above the President for vocational education. It 
will provide $1.2 billion more in State and local law enforcement 
assistance than the President wanted. It will provide $1.8 billion more 
for homeland and border security. And it will provide $500 million more 
for renewable energy and energy efficiency.

And, most importantly, it will provide $3.7 billion more for 
veterans' health care. It seems to me if the President can ask us to 
spend $200 billion more on the war in Iraq, we can spend $3.7 billion 
more to help those who wage the war at great risk to their own health 
and their own lives.

This bill also contains $7 billion in emergency funding. Eighty-five 
percent of that money has been asked for by the administration. It 
didn't originate here.

All in all, we have been able to move about $21 billion into a better 
set of priorities than we were presented with when we were presented 
with the President's budget.

We have heard a lot about all of the shortcomings in process tonight, 
but let me make clear there is one vital difference between what we are 
doing this year and what we did a year ago. Last year under a 
Republican majority, our friends on the other side of the aisle were 
not able to complete action on a single domestic appropriation bill, so 
we were left to deal with that when we took control of this institution 
in January. The difference is that this year we are recognizing that in 
an adult world, win, lose, or draw, we have an obligation to reach some 
final decisions. We have an obligation to compromise and move on. And 
that's what we are trying to do with this legislation. It is a 
responsible thing to do.

I want to thank every Democrat who supported it. I want to thank 
every Republican who will support it. And I would hope that this can 
finally wrap up the session, reflecting somewhat better than the 
President's budget has what the priority wishes are of the American 
people. I ask for ''aye'' votes on the two amendments.