---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `830a4572cf438ec2322e94785871a55b`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam Chair, I want to acknowledge Chairman Skelton and 
Ranking Member Hunter for their good work on this bill.

This authorization has very strong provisions on mental health, a 
number of them addressing the stigma issues regarding mental health, 
identifying the reintegration needs of our Reservists. Our Reservists 
make up nearly half of those fighting on behalf of the war on terror.

Mental health nurse practitioners: It establishes a nurse 
practitioner graduate education program in the Uniformed Services 
University of Health Sciences program that includes psychiatric mental 
health practices.

It has mental health counselors who can now be reimbursed by TRICARE 
for services provided to our troops and their families. These 
counselors are cost-effective and ready to serve the families of our 
servicemembers as well as our servicemembers themselves.

Also, we have the Mental Health Initiative that will coordinate the 
Department of Defense's research and development programs and provide 
opportunities for researchers to better improve identification and 
diagnosis of mental health problems.

Finally, we have the Psychological Kevlar, which will help us begin 
to prevent the post-traumatic stress disorder problems that we are 
seeing many of our soldiers come back from Iraq suffering from. It is 
important that we include in our basic training, before our soldiers go 
abroad, not only physical resiliency and training but mental resiliency 
and training, so that they are as prepared to defend themselves 
mentally as they are physically before it is too late, before they 
suffer the terrible psychological wounds that yield them so disabled in 
many respects after the war, when it is too late.

Finally, Madam Chairman, this bill includes provisions that will take 
account of measuring the quality and satisfaction of our military men 
and women in our military hospitals. We cannot wait for more of the 
kinds of Walter Reed anecdotal stories to rise to the surface before we 
begin to measure the quality and satisfaction in our military 
hospitals, and I am pleased to see this amendment adopted in the bill.

The authorization has very strong mental health provisions that will 
help address the stigma our troops confront in seeking mental health 
care, increase the number of mental health professionals to serve the 
mental health needs of our troops and their families, and advance 
research developed from the nation's academic and medical base to 
better improve DoD's mental health research and treatment programs.

Addressing stigma issues among reservists: The Secretary of Defense 
will establish a working group to identify the reintegration needs of 
our reservists. The working group will examine different programs 
operated by different services, States, and commands to help 
reservists. From there, it can identify best practices and develop 
plans to incorporate these practices across the military.

Mental health nurse practitioners: The establishment of a nurse 
practitioner graduate education program at the Uniformed Services 
University of Health Sciences. The program's specialties would include 
psychiatric mental health practice.

Mental health counselors: Mental health counselors can now be 
reimbursed by TRICARE for services provided to our troops and their 
families. The counselors are a cost-effective force ready to serve and 
help our service-members and their families.

Military mental health initiative: This initiative would coordinate 
the Department of Defense's mental health research and development 
programs and provide an opportunity for researchers to better improve 
the identification diagnosis, and treatment of mental health issues.

This plan will help incorporate evidence-based preventive and early 
intervention strategies into pre-deployment training, combat theater 
operations, and post-deployment service to strengthen our warfighters' 
psychological resiliency.

Introducing our soldiers to mental health care only after they have 
been exposed to combat is far too late. We need to familiarize our 
soldiers and their families with how to recognize and deal with the 
symptoms of combat stress and trauma--and the benefits of mental health 
care--from early on in their military career.

Our soldiers are trained from the moment they enter basic training or 
boot camp on how to physically protect themselves from harm.

We need to ensure that they are just as well trained in protecting 
themselves psychologically as well.