# CONSUMER-FIRST ENERGY ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `830c4b4ca22d25c969cb561c17bce5fd`
`Mr. CORNYN — 11 June 2008`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I rise to talk about the squeeze on the 
family budget that is being imposed by a combination of circumstances 
that, frankly, cry out for some relief.

As shown on this chart, this is how long it takes the average 
American family to work each year to pay their taxes: 74 days each year 
to pay their Federal taxes. Then you add State and local taxes on top 
of that. As you can see, that is a good part of the year, about a third 
of the year, people have to work to pay their taxes, before they can 
begin to pay any of the rest of their bills.

Then it takes 60 days out of the year to pay for their housing; 50 
days out of the year to pay for their health insurance; 35 days out of 
the year to pay for their food; and 29 days out of the year to pay for 
transportation.

Now, this chart was prepared from a special report by the Tax 
Foundation, dated April 2008, having to do with Tax Freedom Day. That 
was the date they designated when you do not have to pay Uncle Sam or 
State and local taxes anymore, you are actually working for yourself. 
That is what we call Tax Freedom Day. But I daresay that this chart 
would have to be updated when it comes to the cost of food and the cost 
of transportation. That is what I wish to concentrate on with my 
remaining few minutes here.

Those related to the rising costs of energy--I have mentioned on the 
floor before being at the Houston Food Bank 2 days ago, where I learned 
that the cost of food is being dramatically increased as a result of 
the cost of energy that it takes to produce it by our farmers. Of 
course, that is being passed along to consumers, making it harder and 
harder on the most vulnerable among us, particularly seniors, people on 
fixed incomes, to pay for their food costs. Then, of course, you add on 
top of that the rising costs of gasoline and fuel, and it presents a 
real human crisis in many instances.

Many folks have said: Well, there is not much we can do about it--the 
cost of gasoline. They had said that when gasoline was at $2.33 a 
gallon. Actually, Speaker Pelosi, back before she became Speaker of the 
House, said if elected Speaker, the Democrats would present a 
commonsense plan to bring down the price of gasoline at the pump. That 
was the good old days. That was back when gasoline was only $2.33 a 
gallon. Now it is $4.05 a gallon, and we are still waiting--I would say 
with bated breath--for that commonsense solution which has yet to come.

But in the absence of a commonsense solution being offered by Speaker 
Pelosi, we have offered a solution that deals with the simple fact that 
when you have increasing worldwide demand for the same commodity, that 
one of the ways you can bring down the price is to increase supply. 
When you talk about the ways we can increase the supply of gasoline, 
well, you necessarily have to talk about increasing the supply of 
oil. Then you get into the issue of how much of the oil we depend on to 
make into gasoline in our refineries is imported. Well, that figure now 
is about 60 percent of all of the oil we consume and the various 
petroleum-related products are produced abroad and shipped into the 
United States.


But we are in an ironic situation of where our dependency on imported 
oil is a consequence of our own failed policies here in the Congress 
because since 1982 Congress has imposed a moratorium on the development 
of America's natural resources right here at home, whether they be on 
the western lands, the oil shale, the Outer Continental Shelf 
surrounding our country, or places such as the Arctic National Wildlife 
Refuge. Congress has placed those out of bounds. We are the only 
country in the world that has placed our own natural resources out of 
bounds and refused to develop those while we have increased our 
dependence on imported energy from dangerous enemies of the United 
States--countries such as Iran and Venezuela, which professes to be our 
enemy in South America.

What is ironic is the fact that years ago, the United States and Cuba 
agreed to draw an imaginary line between our two countries and said 
Cuba had control of the submerged lands on the other side of that line 
leading up to Cuba and the United States had control of the 45 miles or 
so that represented American territory. But do you know who is 
developing the oil and gas that is 50 miles off our southern shore of 
Florida? Well, Cuba has production agreements with Brazil, Venezuela, 
Spain, China, Vietnam, India, Malaysia, Canada, and Norway. That is 
right. While we refuse, as a result of a Federal moratorium on 
development on the Outer Continental Shelf, to allow Americans to 
produce American energy, the Chinese and others are drilling and 
producing oil 50 miles off our shore in the area owned by Cuba. It is 
ironic indeed that we would prohibit Americans from producing American 
energy on American land so that we could remain increasingly dependent 
on foreign oil. I think it is a terrible mistake.

Congress, looking around for a scapegoat as to who has caused these 
high prices, I would suggest needs to look in the mirror. We need to 
reassess and correct that mistake by making this natural resource 
available for production.

Some have come up with what I consider to be misguided solutions that 
do nothing to produce additional supply of oil and gas. As a matter of 
fact, they try something we tried back in the 1980s, for example; that 
is, raise taxes on oil producers here in America. We found out in the 
1980s, according to the Congressional Research Service, that it 
actually reduced domestic oil production by 6 percent.

Some may ask: Well, how is that possible? The fact is that 80 percent 
of the world's oil reserves are owned by national oil companies of 
foreign governments. Let me say that again. Eighty percent of the oil 
reserves in the world are owned by oil companies that are


owned by foreign governments, and only 6 percent, 6 percent of the 
world's oil reserves are owned by stockholder-owned companies; in other 
words, the private sector--the ExxonMobils, the Chevrons, the Conoco-
Phillips, and the like. Six percent owned by those privately owned or 
stockholder-owned companies, 80 percent owned by nations such as Saudi 
Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and others, just to name a few.

So the irony of ironies again would be not only to not allow us to 
develop our own natural resources but actually to tax the privately 
owned or shareholder-owned oil companies that control 6 percent of the 
world's resources while not touching the 80 percent owned by foreign 
countries because, of course, we can't impose a tax on their production 
here in America. We can only impose a tax on our own companies here in 
the United States. When we did that before, we decreased domestic 
production. We should have learned from that mistake, but sadly, as a 
philosopher once said, ''Those who refuse to learn from history are 
condemned to repeat it.''

This is almost like Groundhog Day here in the Senate where we 
continue to encounter the same failed solutions--or I should say 
''nonsolutions''--to the same problems and refuse to look at the most 
obvious solution staring us in the face; that is, to open more of 
America's natural resources.

Now, earlier on the floor, the distinguished Democratic whip, Senator 
Durbin, talked about emergency situations and talked about price caps 
in an emergency and said we are in an emergency, implying that we 
should somehow--Congress should dictate price controls on gas. But I 
would suggest to the distinguished Senator that if we have an emergency 
situation--and I agree, we have something that profoundly affects our 
national security and our economic security and has a dramatic impact 
on food prices and on the average American family. We do have an 
emergency, and we ought to reassess our decision to block exploration 
and production in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, in the Outer 
Continental Shelf, in the shale oil in the western Federal lands and 
elsewhere which, by some estimates, could produce as many as 3 million 
additional barrels of oil each day. Now, that is not a panacea, but it 
is a lot of help in the near term.

As we develop those natural resources, of course, that means we 
depend that much less on imported oil. It creates jobs here in America 
at a time when our economy is softening and unemployment rates are 
going up, and it would help us be less dependent on some of the folks 
who wish us harm in this world. To me, it constitutes the kind of 
emergency Senator Durbin was talking about earlier, that we ought to--
if you won't do it when gasoline is $2.33 a gallon, will you do it when 
gasoline is $4.05 as it is today? If you won't do it when gasoline is 
$4.05 a gallon, will you do it when it is $5 a gallon or $8 or how 
about $10 a gallon? At some point, there has to be a tipping point at 
which the Congress--and especially the Senate--will wake up and look in 
the mirror and say: You know what, we need to reassess this. We need to 
take action on behalf of the hard-working American family to make sure 
they don't continue to find themselves pinched not only by a rising tax 
burden, the cost of housing, the cost of health care, but rising food 
costs and rising transportation costs.

I have to say I was shocked when I saw an interview recently of 
Senator Obama, our colleague from Illinois. He was interviewed by 
CNBC's John Harwood, who asked him the question: Could these high 
prices help us? Senator Obama said: I think I would have preferred a 
gradual adjustment.

Well, I am not sure exactly what he means by that. Certainly, we 
haven't had a gradual adjustment; we have had a radical adjustment 
upward.

All we have had, frankly, from our friends on the other side of the 
aisle is a refusal to act in a responsible way to open America's energy 
resources while they offer what I have to say are misguided 
nonsolutions which produce no additional energy, things such as raising 
taxes on oil companies, which we know will only be put on America's 
privately owned companies and can't be placed on nationally owned oil 
companies in places such as Venezuela and Iran but also have had the 
demonstrated experience of actually reducing domestic production rather 
than increasing it. Hasn't our experience always been that when you 
increase the cost--especially increase taxes--on the producer, 
eventually that is going to be passed down to the ultimate consumer? So 
what it would do is have the effect of decreasing production, 
increasing dependence on imported oil, and raising the price of 
gasoline ultimately for the consumer at a time when we ought to be 
giving the consumer relief from these high prices if we can, and I 
believe we can by increasing supply.

So I hope our colleagues will reconsider their position because, 
frankly, I think the only thing standing between lower gasoline prices 
and the American people is the Congress.

On our side of the aisle, we have offered what we believe to be a 
commonsense solution that would increase supply, so we can hopefully 
add to the supply, with rising demand by countries around the world, in 
a way that will allow us to at least provide some relief to the 
American consumer as we transition ourselves to new alternative sources 
of energy that are not going to be immediately able to fill that role 
currently played by oil.

We know we are going to have to continue to depend on oil and gas for 
the near term, but as we transition ourselves into a clean energy 
future by increasing the use of nuclear power to generate electricity; 
as good, old-fashioned American ingenuity creates things such as plug-
in hybrid cars that operate on batteries we can charge overnight and 
drive in many parts of the country in a way that will provide an 
alternative to internal combustion engines but which will also help us 
deal with environmental concerns as well; as we are on this bridge to a 
clean energy independence, we need to take advantage of the natural 
resources God has given us.


This is one of the things that has made our country so prosperous--
the vast natural resources we have. But only the Congress is so 
mistaken as to impose a moratorium on the development and production of 
those natural resources, and it is hurting hard-working American 
families and the American consumer. We need to do something about it. I 
hope we do on a bipartisan basis soon.

I yield the floor.