---
---

# None
## `830d672cfd1ec89b59131716619001bb`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. But it's alive and well. What we are learning 
more than ever now, having hearings on Iraq, people coming forth with 
some of the things that have us in the situation where we are now, 
mounting evidence of failed policy is the justification for this 
redeployment of troops.

Also, the issue, as it relates to the surge again, the Democratic 
Congress passed a nonbinding resolution saying that we disagree with 
the escalation of troops, that we need an escalation in diplomacy. We 
needed to think smarter.

We talked about the lack of coalition just a few minutes ago. We used 
to hear about the coalition. It got down to the single digits. It got 
outright embarrassing for the administration, so they stopped talking 
about it.

The mounting criticism of the failed Iraq policy, not only by Members 
of the military, but also the American people and Members of this 
Congress and some Republicans in the Senate and some Republicans here 
in the House and definitely a number of Democrats and retired general 
after retired general calling for a new direction. So this is what it's 
going to come down to.

It's going to come down to Members taking out their card that we vote 
with, and they are going to have to take it out. They are going to have 
to find one of these meters or machines here, and they are going to 
have to put it in there. They are going to have to vote ''yes'' or 
''no.'' Do they want to vote for staying the course with the President 
and all of the slogans that they come up with and that they poll, or 
are they going to vote for a new direction and doing exactly what the 
American people wanted us to do? That's the question.

I look forward to coming back to the floor, not only with Mr. Murphy, 
but also with Mr. Ryan, talking about the issues that we are facing. 
The good thing about being in the majority, and I can tell you from 
someone that has been in the minority before in this House, is that we 
can bring ideas to the floor and actually see them voted on that we 
have not had before.

Mr. Ryan came up with a very important point, the fact that 
Republicans had a number of years to do what they said that they want 
to do. No one stood in their way. They could have done it. They didn't 
do it. They had the opportunity to do it. We have asked them to be a 
part of that opportunity that we are working on.

I am glad we had 16 additional minutes so we would have an 
opportunity to get this information out.