---
---

# H. RES. 106 AND THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF GENOCIDE SCHOLARS
## `830fc2af3511270c3cbb0a648fdff39c`
`Mr. PALLONE — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I want to urge my colleagues this evening 
to support House Resolution 106, a resolution that reaffirms the 
Armenian genocide.

I also wish to express my support for its swift passage in the House 
of Representatives. As the first genocide of the 20th century, it is 
morally imperative that we remember this atrocity and collectively 
demand reaffirmation of this crime against humanity.

The resolution, which I introduced with Representatives Schiff, 
Radanovich and Knollenberg, has over 180 cosponsors. It's also the 
exact same resolution that passed the International Affairs Committee 
last Congress by an overwhelming majority.

I strongly believe it is important for Members to understand that 
this is a matter of historical fact. Many Turkish deniers have been 
meeting with Members of Congress and sending correspondence, 
discouraging this resolution. They are claiming that passage of such a 
resolution would be untimely and counterproductive.

Mr. Speaker, for 92 years this has not been reaffirmed here in this 
Congress. I think 92 years is far too long for a proper recognition to 
be made, and its reaffirmation is a matter of conscience.

In the meantime, the Turkish Government has threatened to close 
supply routes to U.S. troops in Iraq if this resolution is considered. 
It's appalling that a country who claims to be our ally would put the 
lives of soldiers at risk in the pursuit of its desperate campaign to 
deny the systematic slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians.

The highly reputable International Association of Genocide Scholars 
recently wrote to Members of Congress urging support for the Armenian 
genocide resolution, and I request permission to insert their letter in 
the Record.



















International Association of
























 Genocide Scholars



























March 7, 2007.



 Dear Members of the United States Congress: We write to you 


 as the international organization of scholars who study 


 genocide. We strongly urge you to co-sponsor H. Res. 106, the 


 House Resolution recognizing and commemorating the Armenian 


 Genocide.



 In three previous statements of the International 


 Association of Genocide Scholars--first, a unanimous 


 resolution declaring that the Turkish massacres of Armenians 


 in 1915-1918 constituted genocide; second, an Open Letter to 


 Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan calling upon him to 


 acknowledge the Armenian Genocide; and third, an Open Letter 


 concerning scholars who deny the Armenian Genocide--we have 


 made our position clear: the historical record on the 


 Armenian Genocide is unambiguous and documented by 


 overwhelming evidence. It is proven by foreign office records 


 of the United States, France, Great Britain, Russia, and 


 perhaps most importantly, of Turkey's World War I allies, 


 Germany and Austria-Hungary, as well as by the records of the 


 Ottoman Courts-Martial of 1918-1920, and by decades of 


 scholarship.



 We believe it is important for Members of Congress to 


 understand that Turkey's nine-decade-long campaign to deny 


 the facts of the Armenian Genocide is driven by a government 


 that has yet to engage in the honest historical self-critique 


 that is a vital part of the democratic process. The numerous 


 trials and imprisonments of Turkish intellectuals and 


 journalists and the assassination of the Armenian-Turkish 


 journalist Hrant Dink in January make this clear. It should 


 be noted that there are Turkish scholars who are urging their 


 government to acknowledge the Armenian Genocide, and many 


 parts of Turkish society share this pro-democratic 


 perspective. We would note, however, that a government that 


 still encourages extreme, uncritical nationalism has created 


 a false narrative about the Armenian Genocide in order to 


 absolve its predecessors of responsibility for the 


 extermination of the Armenian people and their culture in the 


 Ottoman Empire in 1915.



 We are aware that you may be pressured by a small number of 


 academics who support Turkey's denialist stance for often 


 self-interested reasons. Such academics willingly falsify, 


 distort, and manipulate the evidence in sometimes subtle ways 


 to present a false view of history. These academics violate 


 the ethical obligations of historical scholarship. We have 


 noted that academics who deny the Armenian Genocide are no 


 different than academics who deny the Holocaust, the Rwandan 


 Genocide, or the Cambodian Genocide. The recent conference in 


 Teheran devoted to Holocaust denial is a case in point. 


 ''Where scholars deny genocide in the face of decisive 


 evidence . . . they contribute to false consciousness that 


 can have the most dire reverberations. Their message, in 


 effect, is . . . mass murder requires no confrontation, but 


 should be ignored, glossed over. In this way scholars lend 


 their considerable authority to the acceptance of this 


 ultimate crime'' (Roger Smith, Eric Markusen, Robert Jay 


 Lifton ''Professional Ethics and the Denial of the Armenian 


 Genocide,'' Journal of Holocaust and Genocide Studies, vol. 


 9, Spring, 1995).



 We urge you to reject the Turkish campaign of denial, as 


 you may be meeting with groups and individuals who are ardent 


 deniers. We would underscore that the Armenian Genocide is 


 not controversial, but rather is denied only by the Turkish 


 government and its apologists.



 We urge you to pass H. Res. 106:



 (1) It is a recognition of an historical turning point in 


 the twentieth century, the event that inaugurated the era of 


 modern genocide. In spite of its importance, the Armenian 


 Genocide has gone unrecognized until recently, and warrants a 


 symbolic act of moral commemoration. The Armenian-American 


 community first arrived in the United States as refugees and 


 survivors of this great catastrophe and of earlier massacres 


 in the late 19th century.



 (2) Congress will honor America's extraordinary foreign 


 service officers (among them Leslie A. Davis, Jesse B. 


 Jackson, Oscar Heizer, and Ambassador Henry Morgenthau) who 


 often risked their lives rescuing Armenian citizens in 1915. 


 These courageous American diplomats left behind some 4,000 


 reports totaling 37,000 pages, now in the National Archives, 


 documents that prove the Armenian mass murders were 


 government-planned, systematic extermination--what Raphael 


 Lemkin named genocide. By this resolution the U.S. Congress 


 would demonstrate that the moral principles and courage of 


 those foreign service officers continues to represent a 


 powerful example of American leadership. It is in the 


 interest of the United States to support the principles of 


 human rights that are at the core of American democracy.



 (3) Inasmuch as the popular effort in the United States to 


 rescue and bring relief to the Armenians, first from 


 massacres in the 1890s and then from genocide in 1915, set 


 the




 stage for the era of modern human rights activism, H. Res. 


 106 would honor this significant contribution to United 


 States history.



 (4) We expect that the United States would not permit 


 foreign governments to intrude on its own legislative 


 process. We also expect that the U.S. government would not be 


 influenced by threats to close American military bases or cut 


 off sales of military hardware, especially when that pressure 


 comes from a country with a deeply disturbing human rights 


 record today, including violence and repressive measures 


 against writers, minorities, intellectuals, and scholars.



 (5) As crimes of genocide continue to plague the world, 


 Turkey's policy of denying the Armenian Genocide gives 


 license to those who perpetrate genocide everywhere. Just as 


 we would not sanction denying the Holocaust, we cannot give 


 credence to Turkey's falsification of the facts of 1915. 


 Denial is the final stage of genocide, as it seeks to 


 demonize the victims and rehabilitate the perpetrators.



 We believe that it is in the interest of the Turkish people 


 and their future as proud participants in the international 


 democratic community to acknowledge the responsibility of a 


 previous government for the genocide of the Armenian people, 


 just as the German government has done in the case of the 


 Holocaust.



 We would be happy to meet with you in person, and would 


 gladly supply you with the scholarly evidence that has led to 


 the unanimous resolution of the International Association of 


 Genocide Scholars that the Turkish massacre of over one 


 million Armenians from 1915 to 1918 was a crime of genocide.





 Sincerely,






















 Israel Charny, Ph.D.,




President, International Association of Genocide Scholars.

















Gregory H. Stanton, J.D., Ph.D.,






Vice President, International Association of Genocide 




























 Scholars.


I would say, if I could quote some sections of that letter, in that 
letter the scholars state their position clearly, noting that the 
Armenian genocide ''is proven by foreign office records of the United 
States, France, Great Britain, Russia and even of Turkey's World War I 
allies, Germany and Austria-Hungary.''

They also say: ''Just as we would not sanction denying the Holocaust, 
we cannot give credence to Turkey's falsification of the facts of 1915; 
denial is the final stage of genocide.'' They are unanimous in their 
findings.

Mr. Speaker, the American people and this Congress should deserve a 
full and truthful account of the role of the Turkish Government in 
denying the Armenian genocide. Congress should be allowed to reaffirm 
that genocide was orchestrated by the Ottoman Empire in 1915 to 
exterminate its Armenian citizens.
