---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `83257d20bd7a1ad2809a5c676cf6ecbb`
`Mr. LEAHY — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, like all of the others, I was here 
throughout the night. I was happy to do that because I strongly 
supported the Levin-Reed amendment. But I had hoped that the filibuster 
would be ended on this vital piece of legislation.

I was 1 of 23 Senators who voted against going to war in Iraq. The 
distinguished Presiding Officer, my Senate partner from Vermont, voted 
a similar way in the other body.

Mr. President, the President's Iraq strategy has been a disaster. It 
was born of deception, fueled by incompetence, and pursued through 
arrogance and stubbornness.

This strategy has not made us safer. It has undermined the 
international credibility that took generations of Americans' sacrifice 
to build; it has squandered billions of hard-earned tax dollars that 
would have been better used in directly countering terrorists; it has 
skewed our priorities here at home; it has weakened our military 
readiness; and it has created an open sore in an already volatile 
Middle East.

It is time to extricate our troops from Iraq's civil war and let the 
Iraqis and their regional neighbors forge their own political 
settlement.

As many predicted, the security situation in Iraq has not appreciably 
improved despite the President's surge strategy.

The ongoing violence comes from a deadly brew of suicide bombings, 
intra-ethnic conflict, and out-of-control militias--all unleashed by 
the President's poorly planned invasion and occupation of the country.

Our troops can provide some semblance of security in limited areas 
for limited periods of time. But this fleeting security largely just 
shifts the focal points of violence, and it comes at the horrific price 
of the lives and limbs of still more of our soldiers and marines killed 
and maimed every day in roadside bomb attacks and ambushes.

The issue is not whether our troops can gain control of a few city 
blocks but whether there is any way that we can stop Iraq's civil war.

I challenge anyone to say how we can do that, when the Iraqis do not 
yet have the political will to do it themselves.

The Iraqi Army is fraught with ethnic divisions and few Iraqi units 
are capable of fighting successfully on their own.

As others have pointed out, it often appears the Shiite-dominated 
Iraqi Army is simply out to settle scores with the Sunnis who ruled 
Iraq under Saddam Hussein. The unfortunate truth is that the Iraqi Army 
cannot bring security now, and it is unlikely to be able to in the 
coming years without overwhelming, side-by-side support and sacrifice 
of American soldiers.

That leaves political reconciliation, and we all know where that 
stands. The Iraqis are no closer to an oil revenue-sharing agreement, 
no closer to an acceptable political arrangement, and no closer to a 
functioning government that serves all Iraqis. Our presence has become 
an excuse for inaction. Why should Shiites sacrifice when they have 
American forces to die for them?

Why should the Kurds be more conciliatory when they think we will 
protect them forever? Why should the Sunnis reconcile among themselves 
when they can fight Americans together?

Rory Stewart, an insightful author and observer of the Middle East, 
recently commented that our presence in Iraq--is to use his phrase--
''infantilizing Iraqi politics,'' making the Iraqis completely 
incapable of finding their own way.

As our troops are withdrawing, we should make a concerted diplomatic 
push, bringing together representatives of Iraq's Government and Iraq's 
neighbors.

They would have little choice but to recognize that without the U.S. 
military's constant presence, they have to make some kind of 
accommodation among themselves.

That is what the Levin-Reed and the Feingold-Reid-Leahy amendments 
would accomplish.

Based closely on the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, both 
amendments would require the withdrawal of U.S. forces in Iraq to 
commence within 120 days.

By springtime of next year, only a small number of troops necessary 
for limited counter terrorism, force protection, and training purposes 
would remain in the country.

These amendments would effectively end the U.S. military presence in 
Iraq as we know it.

The White House wants to wait to until September, when General 
Petraeus will report on progress from the surge. Yet it is folly to 
wait when we already know what the answer will be.

We are going to hear words like: The situation is still challenging, 
but we are making progress. We are going to get a report like the 
glossy one released last week, which said the Iraqis are making 
progress in some areas, as if that is enough reason to continue further 
still down the wrong road.

We can already see the way the review is predetermined in statements 
of General Petraeus's deputies.

General Odierno told reporters a couple of months ago that the 
current surge level of U.S. troops would be needed in Iraq through next 
year. Major General Lynch, the commander of the southern portion of 
Baghdad, echoed that view only yesterday.

We in Congress have a constitutional responsibility to act now.



If we put off developing a consensus plan for the redeployment of 
U.S. forces, more of our troops will be needlessly killed and wounded. 
More innocent Iraqis will lose their lives. And, as today's public 
summaries of the National Intelligence Assessment on al-Qaida 
underscore, the war in Iraq has made our country less safe. It is an 
indictment of the ruinous policies and strategies this administration 
has pursued in Iraq, year after year.

We must end this treadmill trudge to nowhere. We must show the Iraqis 
that only they can save their country. It is time to shift focus back 
to Afghanistan and to rebuild our military and our defenses at home. It 
is time to restore our reputation as a nation united in combating 
terrorism but unwilling any longer to sacrifice our sons, our daughters 
or our values for a flawed policy that cannot succeed.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.