---
---

# GETTING RESULTS
## `8335479f7b96458329ee28787365390c`
`Ms. STABENOW — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I come to the floor because it is 
amazing to listen to my friends on the other side of the aisle lament 
what they view are things not getting done when, in fact, we are 
getting things done. The truth is, we have been operating this year 
with an extraordinary slowness on the other side of the aisle because, 
first of all, they have participated in 52 filibusters since the 
beginning of the year--52 filibusters, maybe 53 by the end of the week, 
every week now. This is unprecedented. It never happened before. It 
never happened before; to see the minority in the Senate obstruct,


obstruct, obstruct with 52 different filibusters, trying to stop us 
from getting the people's business done.

I find it so interesting and amazing when my colleagues lament that 
not more of the appropriations process is done. As the Presiding 
Officer knows, our colleagues, the previous majority, didn't do a 
budget at all last year--at all. We are moving through the process. 
Despite the continual slowdowns, the efforts to stop us from 
proceeding, we are moving ahead. But last year, our colleagues, who 
lament so passionately and who come to the floor every day, didn't even 
pass a budget. We came in in January to a new majority and had to clean 
up the mess, literally. There was no budget. We had to pass a budget 
just to get us through the end of the year, to be able to keep services 
for the American people going, and we did that. We did that.

Also, during that process we put in place a few things along the way 
that we clearly put at the top of the list in terms of appropriations: 
Additional money for our veterans, clearly a priority for us; a Pell 
grant for our low-income students trying to go to college to have the 
American dream. We are now at a point where we have the budget, the 
appropriations process that we are working on for next year. We have 
seen nothing but efforts to slow that down, to veto it.

Yesterday the President vetoed the part of the budget that focuses on 
health care, education for our people, health research into new cures 
for cancer. It focuses on diabetes and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's 
disease, all of the areas where we hope to make breakthroughs to be 
able to save lives. The President vetoed that.

The President says the slight increase for restoring cuts that the 
President and the Republicans have made in the last several years, in 
our efforts to restore those funds to get the priorities right and put 
us back on track for middle-class families, was too much. Eleven 
billion dollars invested in America is too much. Twelve billion dollars 
a month on a war--putting our men and women in the middle of harm's way 
in a civil war every day--is OK, and it is not paid for. The most 
important thing is we are losing lives, but it is outrageous that we 
are seeing $12 billion a month being spent.

The President vetoed an investment in America yesterday that was less 
than 1 month in Iraq--an investment in our families, in our seniors, in 
our children, and in the future in terms of education and opportunity 
and research. He vetoed a bill that was, in fact, an effort to invest 
in America.

I have to say, despite 52 filibusters, we are, as Democrats, working 
with colleagues, obviously. We don't get anything done unless it is on 
a bipartisan basis. We know that, and we do it every day. But the truth 
is, our majority is getting results for middle-class Americans every 
day. I am proud we have placed veterans at the top of our budget. We, 
for the first time, have listened. We, the new majority, have listened 
to the veterans of this country, the veterans organizations. We took 
their budget called the Independent Budget--the veterans budget--and 
made it our own so we would make sure our veterans were fully funded. 
We have addressed the concerns about Walter Reed and what happens when 
our veterans come home and get caught between the military health 
system and the VA system.

Mr. President, I believe you are about to give me a high sign on the 
time. I ask unanimous consent for an additional 10 minutes.