# HONORING THE OUTSTANDING SERVICE OF THE 354TH EXPEDITIONARY FIGHTER  SQUADRON
## `833bf860f797debeadaebb45946f8a32`
`Ms. GIFFORDS — 21 January 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 354th 
Expeditionary Fighter Squadron on their recent landmark deployment to 
Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

During their recent combat deployment, the 354th distinguished itself 
as the Air Force's premiere Close Air Support unit by flying more 
sorties per day, per aircraft, than any other ground-attack unit in the 
Central Command area.

Over the course of their 6-month tour, the unit flew more than 10,000 
flight hours and launched more than 2,500 sorties in support of 
thousands of troops on the ground and all with only half of their full 
complement of aircraft.

The Bulldogs spearheaded the integration of the SADL communications 
system or Situational Awareness Data Link. They were also the first A-
10 unit to forward deploy to Kandahar Airfield, closer to the action 
and closer to the enemy.

In order to remain airborne, the maintenance team worked around the 
clock to ensure a utilization rate of 210% of the usual domestic 
operational rate. For the 354th that meant 400 sorties a month.

The dedicated service of the airmen of the 354th Expeditionary 
Fighter Squadron has undoubtedly saved the lives of countless American, 
Coalition and Afghan ground forces and under the brutal conditions of 
an unrelenting Afghan winter.

As the first A-10 squadron in theater, the 354th has set the bar very 
high, but I am confident that their follow-on units will meet that 
standard.

On behalf of the people of Tucson, I am personally very proud to 
welcome home the 354th to Davis-Monthan Air Force Base.
