# None
## `8341b1f879e72073c2c0ca2eefb55cba`
`Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN — 23 May 2007`

---


Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2199, the Traumatic 
Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support Act. I would like 
to thank the chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Health Subcommittee, Mr. 
Michaud, for introducing this important bill, and to thank Chairman 
Filner and the ranking member for their support of this legislation.

Among other provisions, H.R. 2199 requires screening of veterans for 
TBI, establishes a comprehensive program for long-term TBI 
rehabilitation to be located at the polytrauma centers, and creates TBI 
transition offices at each of the polytrauma network sites. In 
addition, the bill creates an advisory committee on rural veterans. 
These are important steps toward helping the young men and women who 
have suffered traumatic brain injury, and ensuring the needs of our 
rural veterans are addressed.

Working closely with a National Guard soldier from South Dakota who 
suffered a traumatic brain injury while serving in Iraq, and having 
visited him and his family at the Minneapolis polytrauma center, I 
witnessed both the good and the bad of the VA's efforts to deal with 
these wounded servicemembers. While we have made remarkable strides in 
treating veterans with brain injuries, there is much room for 
improvement, especially when it comes to the long-term support of these 
servicemembers.

I believe the Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term 
Support Act will tremendously improve the services available to 
veterans suffering from TBI. I look forward to continuing working with 
my colleagues on the Veterans' Affairs Committee to address these and 
other issues related to treating veterans suffering from traumatic 
brain injury.

Again, I thank Representative Michaud for introducing and advancing 
this bill, and I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 2199.