# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `834aaacf786f8a531ac813d444858c6b`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 9 July 2008`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the gentleman from Florida.

And on the subject of Iraq, before we move on to some other things, I 
did want to discuss a little bit the fact that the Iraqi Government 
this week announced that they support the creation of a formal 
timeline, a date certain at which the American involvement in Iraq 
would wind to a close.

And I think that that's a monumental moment in what we're facing in 
Iraq because we have, for years now, going on 6 years, been engaged in 
this conflict in Iraq. And the military men and women, the brave 
service men and women who serve us over there throughout this conflict 
have done their job, they have done everything that has been asked of 
them. We could not ask any more from the men and women, they have done 
what they were called to do. And that's something that every American 
can see in the results on the ground. And now, thankfully, the Iraqi 
Government themselves have recognized that that is the case by 
announcing their intention to ask the United States for a formal date 
certain at which point we would wrap up our involvement.



So I find that to be good news. Moving forward, we need to go to the 
Iraqi Government and say, look, this is your country and we cannot 
continue to hold your hand and run your affairs for you. It's time for 
you to step up and administer your own government, administer the 
affairs of state, and take the reins of power. And I think that by the 
statements that we heard today, the Iraqi people and the politicians in 
Baghdad have seen the light on that issue, and I feel like we are 
moving towards resolution and agreement that it is time to wrap up our 
involvement in Iraq.

And I would yield to my friend from Ohio if he wants to continue on 
that, Mr. Ryan.