---
---

# None
## `83528a532eb4f9252d97e83dd9b04268`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I think it is important, 
and Mr. Murphy and Mr. Ryan, that everybody understand the reason we 
are here. We are going to play the legislative role. We talked about 
the lights being turned on in some of these committee rooms. And I was 
sitting here kind of looking through a few things, and I grabbed this 
February 5 edition of Time magazine, and it talked about, Madam 
Speaker, this upcoming Time I just received it in the mail, only 648 
days until the election, why so many candidates are jumping in so 
early. And it talks about this being the most open Presidential race 
since 1928.

There is some interesting comments in here and obviously editorials, 
but I think that you see so many people getting involved because they 
see a vacuum here, a vacuum of the fact that things are not happening 
the way that it should happen. And Ms. Wasserman Schultz alluded to the 
fact that, being lap dogs, we sometimes say here on the 30-something 
Working Group rubber-stamp Congress, what have you, of the 109th 
Congress. We don't want to be that.

I ran into one of my Republican colleagues in the tunnel walking from 
the Cannon building over to the House today for a vote and I asked how 
is a certain piece of legislation. And she responded, well, you know, I 
have a post office bill. I am not going to belittle, I have done a post 
office bill before; it is good to identify outstanding Americans. But I 
just want to make sure that people understand, even here we have what 
we call suspension bills. Those are bills that we all agree on but it 
has to be passed by the Congress, Madam Speaker.

But what is happening now that has not been happening, I go back to, 
I alluded to this earlier, reading is fundamental. We know that some 
people here in Washington, D.C. don't bother to read newspapers, things 
of that nature; but we will leave that for another day. Congress Daily 
A.M., National Journal. And I just want to read what is going to happen 
tomorrow; today is Monday, what is going to happen on Tuesday. I can 
tell you, usually this would not be printed in this Congressional Daily 
Weekly because committees didn't meet. The Foreign Affairs Committee 
only had one hearing on Iraq in the 109th Congress; thus far, Mr. 
Lantos has had five hearings, and we are not even past the first month 
of the new Congress. This is still January.

Let's see what is happening tomorrow. Armed Services Committee is 
going to have a hearing on Afghanistan security and stability. Armed 
Services is going to also have a subcommittee hearing on military 
personnel. The Budget Committee will meet on the economic outlook of 
the country in full committee hearing. Education and Labor on generic 
discrimination of workers. That is happening. That is a subcommittee 
hearing that is taking place. Energy and Commerce will also have a 
hearing on the National Laboratory Security, Oversight and 
Investigation Subcommittee. Oversight Government Affairs and Reform 
Committee is going to have a climate change politics hearing; that is a 
full committee hearing. Science and Technology, Fuels, Infrastructures, 
Research and Development. That is a subcommittee on Energy. 
Transportation and Infrastructure, Coast Guard deepwater system, going 
to have a subcommittee. That is the Coast Guard and Maritime 
Subcommittee hearing that will take place. Transportation 
Infrastructure, Railroads, Pipelines, Hazardous Materials, that is a 
subcommittee hearing that is going to take place. Ways and Means, trade 
and globalization at 10:00 tomorrow, full committee hearing. Ways and 
Means once again, subcommittee will be meeting.

I just wanted to point that out, Madam Speaker. If we were in the 
109th Congress and the 108th Congress, we wouldn't even be here right 
now, Monday. We wouldn't even be here on a Monday. People are paying 
our salary to legislate and to bring about the kind of oversight.

I just want to point that out, because Mr. Ryan spoke a little 
earlier of the fact that we are actually doing, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
what we told the American people we would do, Mr. Murphy, and that is 
lead. Six in 2006. Oh, it is a big dog and pony. It is not. We are 
giving the American people exactly what we told them we would do, which 
is accountability. And that is a paradigm shift for politicians here in 
Washington, D.C. I yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz.