---
---

# MARKING THE END OF THE 4TH YEAR OF THE OCCUPATION OF IRAQ
## `83534baa4def2600cf48993b95089d97`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank very much Congressman 
Hinchey and thank Congresswoman Kaptur for her remarks.

Today marks the start of the 5th year of the war in Iraq; and as I 
begin my statement, I want to recognize the honorable service of the 
men and women who have served our country in Iraq. I want to honor the 
memories of the 3,188 servicemembers who have given their lives in 
Iraq, including five men from my district and over 50 officers of the 
United States Army who graduated from the United States Military 
Academy at West Point, which I am proud is in my district. While I 
believe the war in Iraq has been a mistake, I deeply respect the honor 
and integrity of those who have given their lives following the orders 
of their Commander in Chief.

In light of the sacrifices of so many of our men and women in 
uniform, it saddens me that I have to come to the floor of the House of 
Representatives and say I believe this war has been a strategic blunder 
in our efforts to fight terrorism.

On September 11, our Nation was attacked and many people from my 
district, including police and firefighters, died at the World Trade 
Center. The United States correctly responded by pursuing those 
responsible for 9/11 in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, this administration 
decided to change its focus and start a war of choice with Iraq, a 
country which had not attacked us and was not an imminent threat to the 
United States.

Now our military is trapped in the middle of a civil war instead of 
pursuing Osama bin Laden, Mullah Mohammed Omar, and other al Qaeda 
affiliates throughout the world responsible for 9/11 and other similar 
attacks and groups planning to attack the United States again.

Because we are focused in Iraq, the progress made in Afghanistan is 
slipping. The Karzai government does not control the territory outside 
its own capital. We see an increase in the drug trade that funds 
regional warlords. The Taliban emerges at night to terrorize the local 
population, and our military expects increasing attacks throughout this 
spring. However, because of our continuing overcommitment in Iraq, the 
United States has little ability to increase its troop numbers in 
Afghanistan and respond to that deteriorating situation.

While the administration and its allies say we are battling the 
terrorists in Iraq, the United States intelligence agencies say 
otherwise. The National Intelligence Estimate released in April 2006 
stated: ''The Iraq conflict has become a 'cause celebre' for jihadists, 
breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in the Muslim world and 
cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement.'' Iraq is not 
the central front in the war on terror as the President likes to say. 
Instead, it is a rallying point, a recruiting poster that Osama bin 
Laden uses to recruit more terrorists.

The war in Iraq has seriously weakened our military. A recent report 
found that 90 percent of our National Guard youths are rated ''not 
ready'' to respond to a national disaster or terrorist attack in the 
United States. Further, in order to meet their recruitment goals, the 
military has lowered the minimum standards for being accepted into the 
service, and our military faces a crippling loss of mid-level officers 
as larger and larger numbers decide not to reenlist and face multiple 
deployments.

It is time for a new direction. Our intelligence agencies know it, 
our military commanders know it, and the American people demanded it 
last November. General Petraeus, commanding general in Iraq, stated on 
March 8: ''There is no military solution to a problem like that in 
Iraq, to the insurgency of Iraq.'' And just last week, Pentagon 
analysts admitted that the war in Iraq is a civil war.

Unfortunately, our President refuses to face reality and the will of 
the American people. He wants to put more troops in the middle of a 
civil war. He wants an open-ended commitment to keep combat troops in 
Iraq indefinitely. He wants to leave the problem of Iraq to the next 
President. And, once again, he has returned to Congress and asked for 
another blank check to continue this misguided war. Unlike the 
President, this Congress will face reality and realize that we must 
change direction in Iraq.

Some of our colleagues speaking earlier from the other side of the 
floor criticized us for trying to, as they say, micromanage the war. 
There cannot be 435 or 535 Commanders in Chief. We would not need to 
take this kind of action to manage or, if you will, micromanage the war 
if the President and Commander in Chief were doing his job, if the 
leadership were coming from the top, as our structure of government 
ordinarily calls for it to come.

But because there is a vacuum in the top, because the President has 
continued to disregard or turn a blind eye to the reality of what is 
happening, not only around the world, as our Congresswoman just 
mentioned, in terms of the reputation of the United States, which 
ultimately in the long term is what will determine our security, our 
reputation, the approval of the United States and its policies by other 
peoples and other countries around the world will ultimately determine 
in the long run how secure we are, we do not have enough money to spend 
our way into security if we continue to make more enemies and lose our 
friends.

General Petraeus is correct. We need a political solution to the war 
in Iraq instead of a military escalation. It is time for a diplomatic 
surge. The United States must push the Iraqi Government to meet its 
commitments that it made to its partners in Iraq. It is time the United 
States reached out to our allies in the region and throughout the 
world.

By requiring the Iraqi Government to achieve a list of objectives and 
establishing a timetable for U.S. involvement in Iraq, we can end the 
culture of dependency developing in Iraq. We can make the Iraqi 
Government stand up and take control of its own fate. If they do that, 
we will stick by them. We will help them train police and military 
forces and rebuild their country. If they are unwilling or unable to 
take that responsibility, we will know that the United States does not 
have a serious partner in Iraq.

If we are to defeat the people who did attack our country on 
September 11, those who continue to seek to destroy us, we must pivot 
away from Iraq and back to Afghanistan and al Qaeda, the people who 
actually attacked us. We must draw down in Iraq and let our military 
redeploy, rebuild, and refocus.

The United States faces a gravely serious threat, and we must be 
prepared to defeat it. Our 4-year involvement in Iraq has seriously 
endangered our ability to do that. At home, our National Guard has been 
undermined. It is unprepared to respond to a terrorist attack or a 
natural disaster. Abroad, our military forces are stretched thin and 
unable to shift quickly.

If we really want to defeat Osama bin Laden, al Qaeda and the other 
terrorist groups that seek to kill us, we must return our attention to 
that war and leave the civil war we currently face in Iraq to the 
Iraqis. If we rebuild our forces and refocus on the threats in 
Afghanistan, Pakistan and throughout southeast Asia, we will be able to 
truly defeat our enemies and truly protect the United States of 
America.