---
---

# None
## `835de27735be34c1dbcaa2d1cb6d8e6f`
`Mr. LANCE — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. LANCE. I thank the gentleman from California and the gentlelady 
from Guam.

Madam Speaker, I certainly rise in support of the legislation under 
discussion. I also rise today as a proud cosponsor of H.R. 2788, the 
Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act.

The creation of a memorial to honor Distinguished Flying Cross medal 
recipients is long overdue. These brave men and women are being honored 
for their heroic and extraordinary achievements during flight.

This diverse group of service men and women includes pilots from all 
five military branches and veterans from every U.S. military conflict 
from World War I to the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I'm 
honored to represent several of these heroes who have received the 
Distinguished Flying Cross medal.

One of the awardees is James Pressman of Clark, New Jersey. Born in 
Elizabeth and raised in Rahway, Mr. Pressman served as a U.S. Army 
pilot and has been decorated with three Distinguished Flying Crosses 
for his valiant efforts.

In 1967, he graduated from the Army ROTC program at Rutgers 
University, where he was enrolled in the Army


flight program. Upon graduation, Mr. Pressman attended Infantry Officer 
Basic School and Flight School and then served in Vietnam from March 
1969 to March 1970.

Mr. Pressman flew UH-1H helicopters as a member of C Troop in the 1st 
Squadron, 9th Cavalry of the 1st Air Cavalry Division in Phuoc Vinh, 
Vietnam. After safely returning home, he taught for a year as a flight 
instructor at Fort Wolters, Texas. Once Mr. Pressman retired from the 
Army, he served 6 years in the Army National Guard in Westfield, New 
Jersey.

Mr. Pressman resides in Clark as a retired real estate agent and 
substitute history teacher at Westfield and Arthur L. Johnson high 
schools. It is my privilege, Madam Speaker, to recognize him today 
along with all of the other courageous servicemen and -women who have 
been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.

I thank the sponsor of the legislation, Congressman Ken Calvert of 
California, as well as the chairman and ranking member of the Natural 
Resources Committee, for bringing this legislation to the floor.

With that, I encourage all of my colleagues to vote for passage of 
the legislation.