# None
## `836509aaf6ffed61b8649f8aa86a0b9d`
`Mr. REICHERT — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. REICHERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of House Resolution 640, 
as amended, a resolution that honors the sacrifices and commitments of 
the men, women and families of the United States Transportation 
Command. U.S. TRANSCOM was established in 1987 as one of the nine U.S. 
unified commands. TRANSCOM is tasked with coordination of people and 
transportation assets to allow our country to sustain forces whenever, 
wherever and for as long as they are needed. The men, women and 
families of TRANSCOM have done an extraordinary job of supporting this 
Nation and our national defense over the past 20 years.

I would like to take a moment to share a story with you that 
exemplifies the incredible capabilities of this unique organization. On 
an early morning in July, one of our sergeants was on a raid in Baghdad 
and found himself the victim of a brutal attack that resulted in a 
severe head injury. The soldier was immediately transported to Balad 
Air Base in Iraq for treatment. The wonderful people at the 332nd 
expeditionary medical group, whom I met on a recent trip to Iraq, 
examined this wounded soldier and determined that he needed to be 
quickly returned to the United States for a level of care that they 
could not provide in the field.

This is the point where the amazing men and women of the U.S. 
TRANSCOM went into action. A C-17 crew was just getting ready to start 
their day making normal cargo runs around the theater. As they arrived 
for duty, they were told of the wounded soldier. They immediately began 
planning the mission to get him the critical care that he needed. While 
U.S. TRANSCOM deals with urgent requests almost daily, this one was 
different. The C-17 crew was notified that due to the nature of the 
sergeant's head injury, they would have to keep the cabin pressure no 
higher than 4,000 feet on the flight home. They were also told, by the 
way, that it wouldn't be prudent to land anywhere on their trip as the 
pressure changes from climbing and descending could trigger bleeding 
and the patient would possibly lose his life. In order to make the 
flight home at a lower than normal altitude, the C-17 would need to be 
refueled twice along the way. The folks at U.S. TRANSCOM coordinated 
for the air refueling support over Turkey and England. As the flight 
was en route, this refueling took place. The extraordinary skills and 
capabilities of U.S. TRANSCOM personnel brought that flight safely to 
the ground at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, in record time. The 
wounded soldier was under the care of a neurosurgeon at Bethesda less 
than 24 hours from the moment of attack.

Now, that miracle is pretty impressive. But there are a few other 
details that you should know about this story. First of all, the C-17 
was a McChord Air Force Base, Washington, airplane, where I happen to 
serve. It was flown by an active duty crew from Charleston Air Force 
Base. The doctor who cared for the patient while in flight is a 
reservist from Langley Air Force Base. The nurse is also a reservist, 
but he is from MacDill Air Force Base in Florida. The rest of the 
critical care team is a part of the Air National Guard. The entire 
mission, Mr. Speaker, was being controlled from Scott Air Force Base, 
Illinois, by the Tanker Airlift Control Center. That is what U.S. 
TRANSCOM is all about, bringing together the mobility assets needed to 
support our war fighters to the medical service that they need.

This is why I am proud to support H.R. 640. The men, women and 
families of U.S. TRANSCOM have served this Nation well. As we celebrate 
the 20th anniversary of U.S. TRANSCOM today, let's send them a strong 
message and support this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.