---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `8369114e5baf6b386f1758ef1e8e257f`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 19 November 2009`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, last week many of us spent time back home 
celebrating our veterans and honoring the great sacrifices they made 
for our country. I had the opportunity to commemorate Veterans Day at 
the Tahoma National Cemetery in Kent, WA. It was truly an honor to 
stand with veterans and their families as we paid tribute to their 
service.

This recognition is important, it is certainly deserved, but it is 
not enough. We owe it to our veterans to make sure our commitment to 
them extends beyond Veterans Day and that they have access to the 
health care and services they have earned.

Growing up, I saw firsthand the many ways that military service can 
affect both veterans and their families. My father served in World War 
II. He was one of the first soldiers to land in Okinawa. He came home 
as a disabled veteran, and he was awarded the Purple Heart.

Like many soldiers of his generation, my dad did not talk about his 
experiences to us when he came home. In fact, we only learned about 
them by reading his journals after he passed away. That experience 
offered me a much larger lesson about veterans in general.

They are reluctant to call attention to their service. They are 
reluctant to ask for help. That is why we have to publicly recognize 
their sacrifices and contributions. It is up to us to make sure they 
get the recognition they have earned. Our veterans held up their end of 
the deal, now we have to hold up ours.

As a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, I am keenly aware 
that we have a lot of work to do for the men and women who served us. 
Not only must we continually strive to keep up our commitments to 
veterans from all wars, but we have to also respond to the new and very 
different issues facing veterans who are returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan today, wars that are being fought under conditions that are 
very different from those in the past. That is precisely what the 
caregivers and veterans omnibus health bill that is before us today 
aims to do.

One of the changes we have seen in our veterans population recently 
is the growing number of women veterans who are seeking care at the VA. 
Today more women are serving in the military than ever before, and over 
the next 5 years, in fact, the number of women seeking care at the VA 
is expected to double. Not only are women answering the call to serve 
at unprecedented levels, they are also serving in a very different 
capacity.

In Iraq and Afghanistan, we have seen wars that do not have 
traditional front lines; therefore, all of our servicemembers, 
including women, find themselves on the front lines. So whether it is 
working at the check points or helping to search and clear 
neighborhoods or supporting supply convoys, women servicemembers face 
many of the same risks from IEDs and ambushes as their male 
counterparts.

But while the nature of their service has changed, the VA has been 
very slow to change the nature of the care they provide for these women 
when they return home. Today at the VA there is an insufficient number 
of doctors and staff with specific training and experience in women's 
health issues, and even the VA's own special studies have shown that 
women veterans are underserved. That is why included in this veterans 
health bill we are talking about today is a bill I introduced that will 
enable the VA to better understand and ultimately treat the unique 
needs of our female veterans. That bill authorizes several new programs 
and studies, including a comprehensive look at the barriers women 
currently face in accessing care through the VA. It is a study of women 
who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan to assess how those conflicts 
have affected their health.


There is a requirement that the VA implement a program to train and 
educate and certify VA mental health professionals to care for women 
with sexual trauma, and there is a pilot program that provides 
childcare to women veterans who are seeking mental health services at 
the VA.

This bill is the result of many discussions with women veterans on 
the unique and very personal problems they face when they return from 
war. Oftentimes after veterans meetings I held in which male veterans 
would speak freely about where they believed the VA wasn't meeting 
their needs, women veterans would approach me afterwards and walk up to 
me very quietly and whisper about the challenges they face.

Some of these women told me they don't view themselves as a veteran 
even though they served, and therefore they don't seek care at the VA. 
Others told me how they believed the lack of privacy at their local VA 
was very intimidating, or about being forced into a caregiving role 
that prevented them from seeking care as they would often have to 
struggle to find a babysitter just in order to keep an appointment. To 
me and to the bipartisan group of Senators who have cosponsored my 
women veterans bill, these barriers to care for women veterans were 
unacceptable.

As more women now begin to transition back home and step back into 
careers and their lives as moms and wives, the VA has to be there for 
them. This bill we are talking about today will help the VA modernize 
to meet their needs.

Another way this bill meets the changing needs of our veterans is in 
the area of assisting caregivers in the home. As we have all seen in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, medical advances have helped save the lives of 
servicemembers who, as we know, in previous conflicts would have 
perished from the severity of their wounds. But these modern miracles 
also mean many of those who have been cast catastrophically wounded 
need round-the-clock care when they come home. In many of our rural 
areas, where access to health care services is limited, the burden of 
providing care often falls on the families of those severely injured 
veterans.

For these family members, providing care for their loved ones becomes 
a full-time job. Oftentimes we hear they have to quit their current 
job, forfeiting not only their source of income but often their own 
health care insurance as well. That is a sacrifice that is far too 
great, especially for families who have already sacrificed so much. 
That is why this underlying bill provides those caregivers with health 
care, with counseling, with support, and, importantly, a stipend.

This bill also takes steps to provide dental insurance to our 
veterans and survivors and their dependents.

It improves mental health care services and eases the transition from 
active duty to civilian life. It expands outreach and technology to 
provide better care to veterans who live in rural areas. It initiates 
three programs to address homelessness among veterans at these 
especially difficult economic times.

This is a bill that is supported by numerous veterans service 
organizations, by the VA, and it is supported by many leading medical 
groups. It was passed in the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee with 
broad bipartisan support, after hearings with health care experts and 
VA officials and veterans and their families. Like other omnibus 
veterans health care bills before us, bills that have often passed on 
the floor with overwhelming support, it puts veterans before politics. 
It is a bipartisan bill designed to move swiftly so its programs can be 
implemented swiftly. It is a bipartisan bill designed to make sure our 
veterans do not become political pawns. Yet we have faced a lot of 
delays in getting here. Those delays are all too common here in the 
Senate. We have seen bipartisan nominations stalled, funding bills 
slowed down to a crawl. It has taken us months to pass a simple 
extension of unemployment benefits for people who are out of work.

Providing for our veterans used to be one area where political 
affiliation and bipartisan bickering fell to the wayside. I hope those 
days are not behind us. Our aging veterans and the brave men and women 
who serve in Iraq and


Afghanistan need our help now. How we treat them at this critical time 
is going to send a signal to a generation of young people who today 
might be considering military service.

As I have said many times, it is so important that we keep our 
promise to veterans, the same promise Abraham Lincoln made to America's 
veterans 140 years ago, ''to care for the veteran who has borne in 
battle, his widow and his orphan.''

Our veterans have waited long enough for many of the improvements in 
this bill. We cannot ask them to wait any longer.

I spoke last week on the floor on the eve of Veterans Day urging 
colleagues to move quickly on this bill. I am so glad progress is now 
being made toward making that happen. As we wait to pass this bill, our 
promise goes unfulfilled to many of our Nation's heroes. I urge my 
colleagues to pass this bill quickly so we can get to the work of 
providing our veterans with the support and services they have earned.

I thank the Chair.