---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `8391d14139f08bf56900a8209d94796a`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 31 July 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer and withdraw 
an amendment on this particular bill.

The amendment has to do with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
calling upon them to increase the number of medical centers 
specializing in posttraumatic stress disorder in underserved urban 
areas, which shall include using the services of existing health care 
entities pursuant to the authority in section 1703.

This particular amendment has to do with ensuring the cooperation 
with existing health care institutions used by the Secretary pursuant 
to subsection (a).

I would like to see these facilities located in an area defined as a 
HUBZone and as well in an area that covers rural areas. I would like to 
see, according to my amendment, that these facilities would be located 
within a State that has sustained more than 5 percent of the total 
casualties suffered by the United States Armed Forces in Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.



I am very pleased that, under the leadership of Chairman Edwards, 
longstanding leadership, that the legislation that we have before us 
includes more dollars for mental health and substance abuse, and as 
well some $3.8 billion, and also it includes $200 million to address 
the question of fee-based services in the Veterans' Affairs medical 
system. It also has additional money, $5 billion, for medical 
facilities and $165 million for extended care.

My amendment was to recognize the plain facts of combat, as we have 
seen more and more soldiers coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan 
wounded not only physically but mentally. Most of these soldiers have 
seen--94 percent of the soldiers in Iraq have reported receiving small 
arms fire, 86 percent of soldiers in Iraq reported knowing someone who 
was seriously injured. Some similar numbers we are finding in 
Afghanistan because we have seen an increased amount of combat in 
Afghanistan.

And so, Mr. Chairman, my concern is to ensure that we have the right 
kind of facilities for our soldiers that are returning. So I offer this 
amendment because I thought it was very important to include hospitals 
like Riverside General Hospital, the only historically black hospital I 
believe remaining in the United States, founded and organized by a 
World War II veteran, or family of a World War II soldier.

I would hope that as we move toward the conference, since this 
amendment is now being withdrawn as I conclude my remarks, I am hoping 
that we will be able to work with the committee and ensure that we have 
the opportunity to make this work.

I'd like to yield to the chairman, if I could. I'd like to yield to 
the gentleman about the amendment that I have that has to do with 
providing post-traumatic stress disorder facilities in collaboration 
with existing facilities.

I think this is a good amendment. I am offering and withdrawing it in 
cooperation with the committee. I won't go down to 1600 Pennsylvania 
and work with the White House, but I would like to work with this 
committee and this chairman, and thank him for his leadership, as well 
as Chairman Filner, who has been more than powerful, if you will, on 
the issues of veterans.

This has to do with putting these facilities in historically 
underserved areas and, as I indicated to you, Riverside Hospital has an 
initial grant. We are having some difficulty in making sure they get 
their moneys from the last time. But I think we need more of these 
facilities.

I yield to the gentleman.