---
---

# FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `839e371d0a3b039b2be96e6814511601`
`Mr. TAYLOR — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I followed this debate for several hours now, both here 
on the House floor and in my office, and what I sense is some people 
having a lot of fun at the expense of the least among us.

In my State tonight, 75,000 people will go to sleep in a FEMA trailer 
that the United States Department of Health has ruled is a health 
hazard because they have carcinogens in them. They have formaldehyde in 
them. But it beats the heck out of sleeping in a Chevy Astro Van. It 
beats the heck out of sleeping on their mother-in-law's couch, if their 
mother-in-law has a couch.



In the State of Louisiana, there are 49,000 families who will go to 
sleep in a FEMA trailer. Down around Bayou La Batre, Alabama, another 
thousand; in Texas, another thousand. This isn't a joke. This is trying 
to help the least among us. That is why you see Mr. Baker trying to 
help this bill, and that is why you see me trying to help this bill. It 
is not a joke.

We talk about we ought to be doing better things with this money. 
What is better than helping people who 2 years ago who were middle 
class, who had homeowners insurance, who got screwed by the insurance 
company and woke up to find out they were poor because they lost 
everything in one night and their insurance company didn't pay.

No, I won't yield. You've had hours.

And they can't get any housing built because the workers can't move 
is because there is no place for the workers to live to build the 
houses. And yes, it is still going on, for those of you who wonder.

I am a U.S. Congressman. I am living in my third place since the 
storm. You all know what we make. We make lots of money. It's not that 
I can't afford one, there is none to get.

I am a Congressman. If that is happening to me at my salary, what do 
you think is happening to a schoolteacher or a retired chief petty 
officer or a policeman or a fireman. I thought that was what we were 
about, was helping people.

All of a sudden you are concerned about borrowing and where this 
money should go. It didn't bother you when you borrowed money from the 
communist Chinese. It didn't bother you for the past 12 years when you 
took money out of the Social Security trust fund. It bothers you now 
when we want to help the average Joes? Well, that bothers me.

The chairman is exactly right. The same folks who say we should have 
no accountability of where the billions of dollars go in Iraq, all of a 
sudden, demand that this money that might help somebody who used to be 
an average Joe who now finds himself in a horrible situation, my God, 
you don't want to do that.

Cut the games out. This is serious. This is about housing, a basic 
need. A basic need for our fellow Americans, not Iraqis. Our fellow 
Americans.

I have sat here and watched this game go on for hours, and I have had 
enough. I think the people of America, if they are following this 
debate, they've had enough.

It is time to move this bill. If you don't think it is a good idea to 
take the profits from this organization and ask that they be directed 
towards the housing needs of our fellow Americans, vote against the 
bill. But I happen to think that is a pretty good idea because I know 
guys who used to live in 6,000 square foot houses who are going to 
spend tonight in a FEMA trailer. Not because they want to, because they 
got screwed by their insurance company. They are still going to work. 
They can't find somebody to build a house.

When you lose 60,000 houses overnight, it puts a heck of a strain on 
the system. And when the workers who want to come there and build those 
houses have no place to live, it makes it even worse. We are trying to 
address that. These are real needs for real people.

You've made whatever political points you want to make to your 
constituency, but now it is time to move on and help our fellow 
Americans.