---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `839f162ac13f073a60108e2be3da9b24`
`Mr. STARK — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of Democratic 
efforts to end the War in Iraq.

We are considering two bills today, both of which are significant 
improvements over legislation passed by Rubber Stamp Republican 
Congresses over the last four years. The Iraq Accountability Act 
provides funding for the war, but only until July. After receiving a 
report on the progress in Iraq--or lack thereof--Congress would then 
decide whether or not to extend funding through September. Unlike the 
legislation President Bush demanded, this bill holds him and his 
administration accountable for concrete economic, political and 
security benchmarks in Iraq.

Though I appreciate the attempt to keep President Bush on a ''short 
leash,'' I cannot vote to continue funding a tragic war that has 
already taken the lives of thousands of American troops and tens of 
thousands of Iraqis. Every time I hear the President lie to the 
American people about the situation in Iraq and about the patriotism of 
those who dare criticize his many foreign policy failings, I can't help 
but think he needs a muzzle, not a leash.

It's past time for us to get out of this mess and for our troops to 
come home from Iraq.

That's why I'm excited to join my colleagues in supporting the Iraq 
Redeployment Act. This bill requires the withdrawal of American troops 
to begin in the next three months and be completed in the next nine. It 
also prohibits funding for the ''surge'' and permanent United


States military bases in Iraq. My constituents have been calling for 
withdrawal for years and I'm proud for vote for it on the House floor 
today.