# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `83a32beb2cd7608e414ef2a309d136f4`
`Mrs. BOXER — 22 July 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. The police chiefs, letter is so tough and so strong. It 
reads in part:




 The California Police Chiefs Association is strongly 


 opposed to the Thune amendment. The legislation would require 


 California to honor concealed carry permits granted by other 


 States, even when those permit holders could not meet the 


 standards required by California law. The Thune amendment 


 would empower gun traffickers and threaten the safety of our 


 police officers.


If there is one thing we should do for our police officers, it is not 
make their lives any tougher than they are. We recently lost four 
police officers in Oakland. The whole community suffered along with 
those families. My police chiefs talk about this:




 A trafficker holding an out-of-State permit would be able 


 to walk the streets of any city in America with a backpack 


 full of loaded guns, enjoying impunity from police unless he 


 was caught in the act of selling a firearm.


This is one of the strongest letters I have ever seen from my police 
chiefs. This debate is not about the right to own a gun. That has been 
settled by the Supreme Court in the Heller case. It is about allowing 
States to determine their own laws. And I totally get why some more 
rural States with fewer people would have different laws on conceal and 
carry than a State of 38 million people, my home State of California. 
Leave us alone. Leave us alone. You want to have conceal and carry with 
very few requirements, fine. We have conceal and carry with many 
requirements, and it is working.


Some States do not have any limit on the number of weapons you could 
carry with one conceal and carry permit. So someone could come into my 
State, go into one of my schoolyards, and open up a duffle bag full of 
perfectly legal weapons.

We have approximately 3,300 gun deaths each year in my State. Let me 
repeat that: 3,300 gun deaths each year in California. Each one of them 
has a story of tragedy behind it. A lot of them are kids. So do not 
come down here and tell my State what we should be doing. I support 
your State. You should support my State. And that is exactly what 
Governor Schwarzenegger says. He says we have a right to write our own 
gun laws.

Mr. President, 34 California mayors and 400 mayors nationwide oppose 
the Thune amendment, as does the International Association of Chiefs of 
Police.

We have a lot of work to do. We have to work on health care. We have 
to work on energy independence. We have to work on getting down the 
deficit. We have to work on bringing down the debt. We have to work on 
educating our kids. But, oh, no, we are spending hours on an amendment 
that is offered that tells our States their laws are not to be 
respected when it comes to conceal and carry.

Do you know there are some States that allow a spousal abuser to 
carry a concealed carry weapon? Do you want that spousal abuser, maybe 
in a state of rage, to walk into another State with a duffle bag full 
of weapons? And my senior Senator--she read this, and she is a pretty 
good expert on this issue--says you could have an assault weapon in 
there. Is that what we want?

It is ironic, as we deal with health care issues--do you know what it 
costs to try to sew up somebody and heal somebody who has been a victim 
of a gunshot wound? We are training our doctors who go over to Iraq and 
Afghanistan in our cities.

So all my colleagues on the other side who come here and talk about 
Big Brother--Big Brother--going into their States and telling their 
States what to do, this is a case of Big Brother, clear and simple.

If I need to protect my people in California, I want to leave it to 
my people in California. I do not want to come in and tell them they 
have to live with other State laws that are weaker. It is just wrong. 
It flies in the face of States rights. It flies in the face of common 
sense. And again, the supreme irony is, it is coming from folks who say 
they love our States, they respect our States, the Federal Government 
has too much power. But all of a sudden--

