# VETERANS BUSINESS CENTER ACT OF 2009
## `83a4370a06eea453d67c4ba455e13499`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 28 July 2009`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a new generation of heroes returns home from the 
conflicts


in Iraq and Afghanistan, our Nation has a responsibility to ensure that 
they can earn a decent living for themselves and their families.

When they reenter civilian life, many of our returning soldiers, 
sailors, airmen and marines will be interested in launching their own 
businesses. This is not surprising. After all, the attributes it takes 
to lead a successful business, like perseverance, leadership and 
strategic thinking, are the same skills that make members of our 
military effective.

Already veterans comprise 14 percent of self-employed Americans. With 
more veterans returning home from Iraq every day, we can only expect 
the number of self-employed veterans to spike in coming months.

The bill before us today is meant to make specialized services 
available to veterans so that they can succeed as small business 
owners. Under this bill, the Small Business Administration is 
instructed to establish a new Veterans Business Center program. This 
program will provide veterans with dedicated counseling and business 
training.

There is already an existing Veterans Business Outreach Center 
initiative at the Small Business Administration, and while that program 
is limited in its scope, it has already demonstrated that veterans can 
succeed in business if they have the right tools.

Importantly, under this bill, for the first time we will have a 
dedicated network of entrepreneurial development centers that are 
designed specifically with veterans' needs in mind.

In addition to building on the success of the existing Veterans 
Business program, this legislation will tackle some of the most 
difficult challenges blocking veterans from becoming entrepreneurs. 
Given the ongoing credit crunch, there are specific measures in this 
bill to help veterans access capital and ensure loans.

H.R. 1803 also helps veterans find Federal contracts that are well-
suited for veteran-owned businesses. This is a particularly timely 
program, given the wave of contracts that will be generated from the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.

Equally important, this bill makes clear that as the SBA activates 
the new network of Veterans Business Centers, it should look first to 
those areas of the country with large veterans populations. In short, 
we are bringing small business resources that veterans need to the 
communities with the most veterans.

Mr. Speaker, all of us owe a debt to the men and women who wear our 
Nation's uniform in defense of our country. While we can never fully 
repay that debt, we can help our veterans reenter civilian life and 
pursue the American Dream.

The legislation before the House today will help our returning heroes 
find their piece of the American Dream by launching and building their 
own businesses. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.