---
---

# GEORGIA AND UKRAINE NATO MEMBERSHIP
## `83ae0d085425717fd6b37ad03ce3b9ce`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 1 April 2008`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise today in support of House Resolution 997, which expresses the 
strong support of the House of Representatives for the NATO Alliance 
decision to enter into a Membership Action Plan, or MAP, with the 
countries of Georgia and Ukraine.

NATO has expanded its membership and its partnerships across Europe 
in recent years, making the Alliance not just stronger but an 
instrument for spreading democratic values.

The MAP process was created in 1999 to help those countries aspiring 
to join NATO to prepare to become members by providing guidance and 
practical support. The decision to admit a country into the MAP process 
is a serious one, exceeded only by the decision to admit a country into 
the Alliance. Countries need to demonstrate that they are sincerely 
consolidating their democracy, that they are willing to take on the 
requirements of the MAP process, and that they are willing to 
participate in missions that go beyond their own borders and direct 
interests.



Looking at Georgia and Ukraine, Madam Speaker, we recognize that 
these two countries have made important progress in introducing the 
systems and the institutions that support democracy. Democratic changes 
in these two countries have certainly not been easy, and at times the 
progress of democracy has been confused and uncertain.

Under very difficult circumstances and in the midst of wrenching 
changing times since they gained their independence, both Ukraine and 
Georgia have moved ahead with their political reforms, with their 
democratic institutions of governance, and the conduct of elections. 
The steps taken by these two countries compare favorably with trends in 
several nearby states, such as Russia, where true democracy is being 
steadily and comprehensively suppressed.

Both Georgia and Ukraine have also made great strides in the reform 
of their defense forces and in the commitment of their forces to 
peacekeeping and multilateral missions in other regions. Georgia is 
currently participating in NATO's Partnership For Peace program, and 
has successfully graduated from the Georgia Train and Equip program in 
2004, after achieving its goals of enhancing its military capabilities 
and implementing military reforms. Georgia currently has 2,000 troops 
in Iraq, making it the third largest contributor after the United 
States and Britain. Furthermore, Georgia has troops in Kosovo, and has 
signed a transit agreement with NATO which allows the Alliance, as well 
as other nations participating in the International Security Assistance 
Force, to send supplies to their forces in Afghanistan through Georgian 
territory. Moreover, yesterday a Georgian defense ministry source said 
that Georgia is offering to send 500 troops to join NATO operations in 
Afghanistan.

Ukraine is also a member of the Partnership for Peace program, and 
currently has troops in Kosovo. Additionally, Ukraine has significantly 
contributed to multiple U.N. peacekeeping operations, including those 
in Liberia and Sierra Leone, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina.

A stronger relationship with NATO should enable Ukraine and Georgia 
to move forward with their military reforms, prepare to commit to 
future peacekeeping and stability operations, and, more importantly, 
Madam Speaker, to consolidate the democracy that they are both seeking.

We understand that access to NATO's Membership Access Plan is not 
NATO's membership. If Ukraine and Georgia become part of MAP and seek 
NATO membership in the future, their candidacy will have to be 
carefully evaluated to make sure that they fully meet NATO's standards 
and will benefit the Alliance should they become full members. NATO 
membership for these two countries is not an immediate prospect and is 
a question that will wait for future consideration.

I note with regret, however, the recent predictable statements by 
officials of the Russian government alleging that NATO is seeking to 
surround Russia. They have rattled the nuclear saber to some degree, 
hoping, I suspect, to intimidate Ukraine in the process. I can only 
contrast such attitudes and statements with the very laudable step that 
Ukraine took in 1994, when it relinquished the powerful nuclear arsenal 
it had inherited from the Soviet Union for the sake of stability in 
Europe.

The steps taken by Georgia to support the U.S. and NATO, again in the 
face of terrific and unwarranted pressure from Russia, also deserve our 
commendation and our gratitude. The resolution before us, Madam 
Speaker, makes it clear that the United States should take a leading 
role in supporting these two countries' interests in the Membership 
Action Plan.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.