---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `83b2db0fe274ffb8873283d51790bd06`
`Mr. SHAYS — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this is one of those debates that you just have to take 
a deep breath and say, is this our finest hour or one of our worst, or 
somewhere in between? With this new Democratic majority, I thought 
there would be a reaching out to both sides of the aisle. I thought, on 
something so important, they would say, we went into Iraq on a 
bipartisan basis, two-thirds of the House, including Mr. Murtha and 
others, and three-quarters of the Senate voted to go into Iraq.

We did not find weapons of mass destruction. And this administration 
made some terrible mistakes early on in disbanding the army, the police 
and the border patrol and allowing the looting. I understand the 
tremendous discontent. And this war has not turned out the way many had 
hoped. And certainly when we look back we can say a lot of it was 
predictable. But we attacked them; they did not attack us. I want to 
say it again: We attacked them; they did not attack us. We abolished 
their entire security force. I think of New York State. New York State 
had 19 million people. Imagine if a hundred thousand prisoners had been 
let out from Rikers Island and Attica, and then we said, no police in 
New York City, no police in Albany, no police in Syracuse, no police in 
Buffalo, no police in any of the towns in between. But do not worry, we 
are going to have 150,000 Arabic speakers spread out across all of New 
York, and they will keep the peace. Well, we did that to Iraq, but it 
is much larger than New York, and it has 26 million people instead of 
19 million. So a lot of what has happened is predictable.

But now, when you talk with the Iraqis and you talk with the 
neighbors of Iraq, they say, we did not want you to go in, but we sure 
as heck do not want you to leave until you leave this a better place.

We could, on a bipartisan basis, work this out. And there will be a 
point where bills like this will not be considered because we will come 
up with a bill that says, well, there are some of you on this side of 
the aisle that do believe in timelines, but timelines that actually 
work, not timelines that guarantee defeat of any chance of success.

We expect that maybe you would say to us, well, we call you an 
occupying Nation, that is what you say we are.


Well, fine. Then let's negotiate with the Iraqis like we negotiated 
with the South Koreans. That is a possibility. Why aren't we 
negotiating with them?

The Iraqis, if they want, could ask us to leave. They have their own 
government. They have their own leadership. Why not have a plebiscite 
in that Nation? Why not have the Iraqi Council of Representatives vote? 
Why aren't we talking about those things? Why aren't we talking about 
the Iraqi Study Group, which Republicans and Democrats have both agreed 
have merits to it? We could potentially have a resolution that many of 
us could support. Why aren't we having an approach on the other side of 
the aisle that says, we need to find common ground and work it out 
together? I believe this: I believe two-thirds of the Iraqis want us to 
leave, and I believe two-thirds want us to stay. That is what the polls 
say. They do not want us to leave until we leave it a better place.

I believe the Iraqis are a proud people, and they want to be treated 
with dignity. What this resolution does is simply pull the rug out from 
under our new Secretary of Defense, which all of you said you wanted, 
pulls the rug out from General Petraeus, who received 100 percent 
support in the Senate. Our general has said, give me a chance to show 
that we can win back Baghdad. That is what he has asked.

What this resolution does is say that one part of the equation, the 
military, disappears. And we all have agreed you cannot win it 
militarily, but you cannot win it without the military. You cannot win 
it just with a change in politics, but you cannot win it without it. 
You cannot win it just with economics, but you cannot win it without 
it. It takes all three. And it is almost like, in a way, you want us to 
lose. It is almost like we are going to tie one hand behind our back 
and then say there is a failure because we have not given them all 
three parts.

I cannot tell you how objectionable I find this. I find it 
objectionable that we would not allow the Iraqis to stand up on their 
own. They need us to train their military, their police and their 
border patrol. They need our troops embedded in there because they do 
not have any sergeants and corporals. We are embedded in there to help 
identify who among all those privates that we are training can be 
leaders among those troops.

This is an unwise resolution. It is a partisan resolution. It is a 
bad message for us to send the Iraqi people. They do not know what to 
think about this Congress, but they do know this: We are more divided 
than they are, and we do not even have bombs blowing up.