---
---

# THE BUDGET, DEBT AND THE BLUE DOG'S IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY LEGISLATION
## `83b5650528b66a834458250d2b95ef5b`
`Ms. BEAN — 27 February 2007`

---


Ms. BEAN. I thank the gentleman from Georgia for yielding. It is 
always an honor to join you here on the floor as it was an honor to 
join you during the NATO parliamentary assembly that we attended 
together. And one thing that didn't come up that you mentioned earlier 
with Congressman Chandler was that, in addition to visiting NATO 
headquarters in Brussels, we also visited the Landstuhl Medical 
Facility in Germany where our returning wounded are coming from both 
Iraq and Afghanistan. And it was important to meet with them and hear 
from them their firsthand experiences and what brought them there, why 
they are fighting so hard, and their concern for those in the platoons 
that are still fighting. And one of the things I wanted to talk about 
is bringing some accountability to that process.

And I will also mention that there has been a lot in the press 
recently about Walter Reed and some concerns about infrastructure and 
investment that I know we are working to address as we look at 
appropriations. But it was encouraging to see the medical 
professionals, their commitment to facilities and just the top-notch 
care that our returning men and women who have been wounded are getting 
and hear how pleased they were with the level of medical support they 
are getting.

But the Iraqi War Cost Accountability Resolution which we in the Blue 
Dogs introduced is what I wanted to touch on, because several of my 
Blue Dog colleagues and yourself, Mr. Scott, have mentioned 
accountability, and I think it certainly what our constituents expect 
of us. And one of the reasons we supported this bill is it provides 
accountability across four different disciplines. It provides spending 
accountability; it enforces transparency, and requires the Department 
of Defense Inspector General to provide regular reports on exactly what 
spending has taken place, what spending hasn't taken place, what 
projects we are working on, what the status of those projects are, what 
the contracting process is. And also, not just what we in this country 
are providing, but also what are other countries that are allied with 
us are providing to what is going on there as well. It provides 
contracting accountability in addition to spending accountability, with 
a commission akin to the Truman Commission that was done in the past to 
oversee the contracting process, the policies, how they are being 
carried out, and whether those contractors are fulfilling their 
obligations as well. And it also puts sanctions in place for any kinds 
of fraud or abuse that can be happening.


It also provides budget accountability. As you and I know, and we 
have talked about this in our Blue Dog meetings, there have been six 
emergency supplementals, and those emergency supplementals have all 
been for war spending. Given the number of years we have all been 
engaged in this process in Iraq, it is no longer an emergency. This is 
an unaccounted for spending; this isn't something that we are surprised 
by. And so what we are requiring in this bill is on budget war 
appropriations. And it also requires Iraqi accountability. So let me go 
through all four of those, and then I will describe what I mean by the 
Iraqi accountability.

Spending accountability, contracting accountability, budgeting 
accountability, and Iraqi accountability.

And that means that we need to hold accountable not only the Prime 
Minister al-Maliki, but the Iraqi government, to be accountable first 
and foremost to protecting themselves on a sovereign basis. And as you 
alluded to earlier, it is our job to help contain the situation from 
insurgents outside, but they need to, for their own security, be first 
and foremost in assuming a higher degree of responsibility, as many of 
us supported the President when he said, as the Iraqi people and the 
Iraqi military stand up, we can stand down. And so we have to hold them 
accountable to doing that so we can.

I am going to lastly talk about the budget in general and why I am a 
Blue Dog. You have your sign up there, we all do, and it talks about 
the $9 trillion of debt that we are now at. And I think Congressman 
Cooper alluded to the fact that the foreign borrowing that we are doing 
is contributing to that. We are now borrowing, as a Nation, $7 billion 
to $8 billion per working day from foreign countries; $2 billion to $3 
billion of that is just the government alone. And at that rate, we are 
going to continue to exacerbate this debt and the individual share that 
we are passing on to every American.

I think, as a parent, I often remind myself that tough love is 
important. It is not my job as a parent to tell my kids what they want 
to hear, but to tell them what they need to hear. And I think the Blue 
Dogs bring that same kind of tough love to our constituents and to our 
Nation, and hopefully to our Congress, because we need to be talking 
about what Americans need to hear, not what they want to hear. And so I 
am glad to be joining you tonight.