---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `83bcea441c9a027b0a2a649c0fcd044d`
`Mr. ENZI — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the emergency 
supplemental bill that we are considering in the Senate.

This new version of the emergency supplemental bill represents a 
change from the previous version. It is less expensive--$3 billion less 
in domestic, nonmilitary spending that didn't belong in this bill in 
the first place.

The bill is also better for overall defense than the last version. I 
am speaking of the GI bill provisions in this legislation. Changes have 
been made to try and address the transferability of benefits. These 
changes also attempt to deal with the concern the Department of Defense 
raised about the retention of our servicemembers by requiring extended 
service for extended transferable benefits. It does not fully address 
the concerns, but it is a step forward.

Congressional leaders have sat down with the administration and 
developed a bill that President Bush can sign.

I recently had the opportunity to address Wyoming's American Legion 
convention in Riverton, WY. They support improvements in the GI bill 
but never want to see any veterans, from World War II to our current 
operation, be used for gotcha politics. I think they will be pleased 
that changes and improvements were made.

This isn't a perfect bill. There is still some overspending on non-
military matters. The bill was force fed through the process. 
Amendments that could improve the bill further were shunned by the 
majority leadership.

The fact remains, however, that we need to fund our troops. We need 
to provide our men and women in uniform with the best possible 
equipment and the funding they need to do their job fighting the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have a responsibility to make this happen 
in an expeditious manner. Sending this legislation to President Bush is 
the only way that will happen and so I will support the supplemental 
bill.