---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `83d8e63c49018e2948aefce767d7c963`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. This amendment I am introducing with Senator McCain as 
my lead cosponsor, and with a strong bipartisan group of cosponsors, 
including Senator Reed of Rhode Island, and Senators Snowe, Schumer, 
Inhofe, Dodd, Hutchison, Collins, Kyl, and Cornyn. I am very grateful 
for that support.

To state it briefly, and then to go into some detail, this amendment 
would remove funding from this bill that was added by way of amendment 
in the Armed Services Committee for $439 million to build a second 
engine for the Joint Strike Fighter plane.

I will argue, on behalf of the amendment I have introduced with 
Senator McCain and others, that it is a waste of $439 million to build 
for a plane a second engine, which we don't need. In fact, estimates 
are that continuing acquisition of this second engine will cost over $6 
billion of taxpayer money that we don't need to spend because there has 
been a competition for the engine to be used in the Joint Strike 
Fighter, which is now the heart and soul of America's hopes for the 
future when it


comes to tactical aviation--particularly after the Senate terminated 
the F-22 program the other day.

So there was a competition to build the engine for the Joint Strike 
Fighter. General Electric, in its proposal, lost that competition. 
Pratt & Whitney won that competition.

Now, by way of legislation, the proponents of the second engine for 
this plane are trying to achieve, by legislation, what they could not 
achieve by competition. It is not only that it is an unnecessary 
expenditure of $439 million in the coming year, and more than $6 
billion, for a second engine that we don't need for that plane, but it 
has consequences. It is not just that we are spending taxpayer money, 
but I will go into this in some detail in a moment.

Regarding putting that money to use on that second engine, a general 
from the Air Force overseeing this Joint Strike Fighter program told 
our committee it would delay the Joint Strike Fighter, which our 
services are desperately waiting for. They need this tactical fighter. 
So it would delay the program and, in fact, this Air Force general 
testified to our committee that putting money into the bill for the 
second engine, and continuing to fund it, would result, over the next 5 
years, in a reduced capacity to build Joint Strike Fighters by 53 
planes.

So to spend the money to build a second engine for a plane, when we 
don't need a second engine--because the first one won the competition 
and is performing very well--we are going to reduce the buy of this 
tactical fighter that our military needs by 53 planes over the next 5 
years.

How do my friends who support the second engine pay for it? Well, in 
the Armed Services Committee bill, which is before us, which Senator 
McCain, I, and others are trying to remove, they defund the acquisition 
of helicopters, which are desperately needed by our marines, 
particularly those fighting in Afghanistan.

There will be an alternative proposal made this morning in the 
amendment Senator Bayh will introduce, I presume, because there has 
been so much protest to defunding this acquisition of helicopters that 
the marines need in battle in Afghanistan, in order to pay for a second 
engine, which is unnecessary, for the Joint Strike Fighter. Instead, 
the amendment will defund the acquisition of C-130s, which are 
specially fitted for our special operations forces. Again, they are 
carrying out extremely dangerous and critical missions in Afghanistan, 
Iraq, and other places, where they are courageously taking on 
particularly the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11.

That is the essence of the argument. This second engine is a program 
President Obama has described as ''an unnecessary defense program that 
does nothing to keep us safe, but rather prevents us from spending 
money on what does keep us safe.''

That warning from President Obama about the consequences of funding 
the second engine for the Joint Strike Fighter is realized already in 
the part of the bill Senator McCain and I and others are trying to 
withdraw and in the amendment my friend from Indiana will introduce 
because it takes money from the Marines and the Air Force special 
operations community in areas they and we desperately need.

I wish to add that, this morning, I was grateful and honored to 
receive a letter from Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, in which the 
Secretary of Defense strongly and clearly expresses his opposition to 
the alternate engine, the second engine, an unnecessary engine--the $6 
billion unnecessary engine for the Joint Strike Fighter--and his 
support for the amendment that Senator McCain and I and others have 
introduced.

I ask unanimous consent that the letter from Secretary Gates be 
printed in the Record.