# ESTIMATED TAX PAYMENT SAFE HARBOR ADJUSTMENT
## `83e1f0ba8247d4730c2d2a2fc8fb9271`
`Mr. LEWIS of Georgia — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, this is an historic day. This is a 
wonderful day for the people of the District of Columbia.

I first came to Washington, Mr. Speaker, in May of 1961 to go on 
something called the Freedom Rides. It was impossible for blacks and 
whites to board a Greyhound bus or Trailways bus here in the District 
of Columbia, and travel together through Virginia, North Carolina, 
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, into Mississippi and to New Orleans.

I came back here in 1963 at the age of 23 with Eleanor Holmes Norton, 
the gentlewoman from the District of Columbia, to participate in the 
March on Washington. To be here and see Jack Kemp, an old friend, 
former colleague, on this day is a great day.

So, Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 1906. And I want to make it 
plain and crystal clear that no one, but no one, will pay more taxes 
under this bill. It changes in a very minor way estimated tax payments 
made by wealthy individuals. This bill does not increase their taxes. 
It would affect only 4,000 multimillionaires. It is only a tiny change.

Yes, I am going to say it again: I am pleased to have supported H.R. 
1905. Today is the day for Washington, D.C. residents to realize the 
dream that so many take for granted. The 200-year wait is over. The 
200-year wait is over.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle 
to vote ''yes'' for H.R. 1906.

Mr. Speaker, I submit the following for the Record:



 Rules From the 109th That Added Text of House-Passed Bills to 














Underlying Bill




 H. Res. 151 rule for H.R. 1268, 3/14/05, 7:30 p.m., Making 


 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for FY2005--a.k.a.



 Iraq/Afghanistan/Tsunami Relief.



 Open: waives all points of order against consideration; 


 waives points of order against bill for clause 2, Rule XXI 


 except two sections; provides for the text of H.R. 418 as 


 passed the House to be added to the end of H.R. 1268.



 H. Res. 783 rule for H.R. 4975, 4/26/06, 11:20 p.m., 


 Lobbying Accountability & Transparency Act of 2006--ethics 


 reform.



 Restrictive: waives all points of order against 


 consideration; 1 hour general debate controlled by Majority & 


 Minority Leaders; makes in order Rules Committee 4/21/06 


 print in Part A of Rules' report and self-executes its 


 adoption; allows only those amendments printed in Part B of 


 the Rules' report as specified; waives all points of order 


 against amendments; after final passage adds text of H.R. 513 


 as passed the House (527 Reform bill) to H.R. 4975; provides 


 for consideration of Senate bill (S. 2349) and substitutes 


 House passed text and calls for conference; waives all points 


 of order against consideration of Senate bill and against 


 motion to strike and insert.



 H. Res. 1100 & 1099 rules for H.R. 6406 and H.R. 6111, 12/


 7/06, 10:30 p.m., To modify temporarily certain rates of duty 


 and make other technical amendments to the trade laws, to 


 extend certain trade preference programs, and for other 


 purposes.



 Closed: Consideration in the House; waives all points of 


 order against consideration; provides that in the engrossment 


 of H.R. 6111, the text of H.R. 6406 will be added at the end.



 (H. Res. 1099) Provides for a motion to concur in the 


 Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of the text of 


 H.R. 6408 for a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 


 1986 to provide that the Tax Court may review claims for 


 equitable innocent spouse relief and to suspend the running 


 on the period of limitations while such claims are pending--


 vehicle for tax extenders and more . . . .
