# COMMEMORATING THE SIXTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK
## `83e72e4fb3a492fd69fdb0b431bed2dd`
`Mr. DOMENICI — 11 September 2007`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President. I would like to take a few moments to 
remember the Americans who were killed in the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, 2001.

In the 6 years since terrorists carried out the September 11 attacks, 
our Nation has not forgotten the innocent Americans who were killed, 
one of whom was Al Marchand from Alamogordo, NM, a flight attendant on 
United Airlines flight 175 and one of the first casualties on this 
horrific day. Neither have we forgotten the heroic policemen and 
firefighters who lost their lives trying to save fellow Americans or 
our brave men and women in uniform who have served their country in the 
war on terror. I do not believe Americans will ever cease to remember 
the shock and sadness we all felt that day.

September 11 also serves as a reminder that there are many in this 
world who would harm us and that we must remain vigilant. In the last 6 
years we have made great progress in making sure America is secure and 
I am proud of the contribution many of my fellow citizens from New 
Mexico have made to strengthen our defenses against terrorist attack. 
The men and women at Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratories have 
worked hard to develop many of the technologies that now help us detect 
terrorist threats. Many members of the New Mexico National Guard have 
been deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan, and the global war on terror as 
well as many active duty members of the Armed Forces who are stationed 
in or are from New Mexico. All these service men and women are doing a 
fantastic job and we should not forget to thank them for their service 
and the scarifies they have made to keep us safe.

Although the Islamic extremists behind the attacks sought to break 
our will and erode our freedom, they were unsuccessful on both fronts. 
Our liberty is dearer to us now, and we are reminded of that each day, 
as our nation continues the war against terror that these terrorists 
began 6 years ago.

I hope New Mexicans will take a moment today to reflect on the 
tragedy of 9/11, the Americans who lost their lives and the loved ones 
they left behind and pay tribute to the individuals who serve and 
defend us today.