# UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `83e8e7d3e5c962224ba6d11c0d560386`
`Mr. GINGREY — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Chairman, I will yield to myself such time as I 
might consume.

I was recently in Iraq. I've been a number of times, of course, to 
Iraq, and Afghanistan. And also just recently, I saw a news special 
back home highlighting one of our great heroes from the Middle East who 
was burned severely. His injuries, I think, were the result of an 
improvised explosive device, and he was an occupant of one of the up-
armored HUMVEES or the new MRAP vehicles. I think, indeed, it was an 
up-armored HUMVEE.

And while he was not injured by shrapnel or a projectile, there was a 
fire, and there was a significant fire. And of course, as he was pulled 
from the burning vehicle, he sustained severe, severe injuries to his 
person from the fire. And he described how he just, he knew what to do. 
He rolled, he tried everything in his power. But of course, thanks to 
what happened to him at Landstuhl Medical Center in Germany, and then 
eventually at Walter Reed and Bethesda, he's alive and well and has a 
family and children. And this little news clip featured him playing 
with his kids. But you could certainly see the ravages that that fire 
inflicted upon his body, and the scarring of course. What a brave--I 
wish I could remember his name, Mr. Chairman, because it was, talk 
about a profile in courage.

But it just made me think about, as we've been discussing here today, 
and you talk about what these firefighters do and how important they 
are. And actually, as we know, 40 percent of the workload in Operation 
Iraqi and Enduring Freedom has been carried by our Guard and Reserve, 
many of whom are firefighters who, you know, they've been trained. And 
thank God for that. And I'm very hopeful. I want to look into this 
further. I'm sure that our military, our regular Army and Marine Corps, 
they're all well-trained in that. But that just goes to show you how 
important it is, not just to save a life, but try to bring that life 
back and so they can rejoin their family and friends in society, go 
back to their job.

One of the statistics that I think both Mr. Mitchell and I mentioned 
in regard to the fact that the latest year that we had numbers, there 
was still something like 37, 3,800 people that lose their lives every 
year in fires in this country.

Well, you know what? That's about the number, we're at 4,000 now, 
that have lost their lives in this 4/1/2/, 5-year war. And of course 
there were practically 3,000 lives lost, many of them from fire, a lot 
of them firefighters themselves, on 9/11. So it just brings home the 
message that fire is an awful thing. It is an awful thing. It might not 
kill you immediately, like one of these high powered projectiles, but 
it can certainly destroy one's life.

And so what we're talking about here today is so important, and 
that's why this bill is so important.

I just wanted to make those remarks, Mr. Chairman.

I, at this time, don't have additional speakers waiting for time, but 
I would like to reserve the balance of my time. And I still make the 
offer to yield to the gentleman from Arizona if he needs some more 
minutes.