---
---

# LOUISIANA ARMED SERVICES VETERANS POST OFFICE
## `83f17e971603967b49a168a885f3ee8f`
`Mr. JEFFERSON — 15 October 2007`

---


Mr. JEFFERSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today as the sponsor of H.R. 
2089 to rename the main post office in New Orleans from the New Orleans 
Main Office Window Service to the Louisiana Armed Services Veterans 
Memorial Post Office.

I would like to thank Chairman Waxman for his leadership in bringing 
this bill to the floor today as well as my colleague Mr. Davis of 
Illinois, as well as fellow members of the Louisiana congressional 
delegation who join me as cosponsor of this measure.

As we approach the commemoration of Veterans Day, it is important to 
note that the State of Louisiana has made many contributions to each 
branch of our armed services and, by extension, to the defense of this 
Nation. My State of Louisiana is home to many proud armed service 
veterans dating from World War I to the present military engagement in 
Iraq. I am proud to say that many of my fellow Louisianans have 
volunteered and sacrificed as soldiers and as families of soldiers in 
the defense of this great Nation, and it is only appropriate that we 
memorialize them in this significant way. Louisiana is home to well 
over 370,000 uniformed veterans. This includes nearly 120,000 who 
served in World War II, 47,000 in the Korean War, 115,000 in the 
Vietnam War, and 80,000 in Desert Storm, the first Gulf War.

However, simply citing statistics does not give a complete picture. 
It doesn't give a complete picture of the sacrifices nor contributions 
made on behalf of the soldiers nor does it detail the historical 
relationship of Louisiana and the armed services branches of our 
Nation. It could be easily argued that the very battle that propelled 
America onto the world stage as a political and military power was 
fought on January 8, 1815, just below New Orleans, the Battle of New 
Orleans. Louisiana military posts were key supply points for the 
Mexican War of 1848. The Nation's first African American woman to earn 
her star as a general in the U.S. Army was Sherian Grace Cadoria, who 
grew up in Marksville, Louisiana, and graduated from my alma mater at 
Southern University in Baton Rouge.

Louisiana is also home to three major military installations, 
Barksdale Air Force Base in Bossier City, the Army's Fort Polk Joint 
Readiness Training Center near Leesville, and in my district, the Belle 
Chase naval facility across the Mississippi River from New Orleans. 
Each installation is an integral part of its respective community. Each 
also employs many local residents and has a profound impact on the 
economy of our State.

I would be remiss, Madam Speaker, were I not to mention the Louisiana 
National Guard, which calls New Orleans home at Jackson Barracks. The 
National Guard has made significant contributions within the State as 
well as abroad. During the first Gulf War, Louisiana had the highest 
number of guardsmen serving per capita than any other State in the 
Nation. However, Louisiana's contributions to the armed services does 
not come without cost. During the current war in Iraq, Louisiana lost 
more than 100 of its servicemen and women and over 500 have been 
wounded; yet this is not the only area in which our armed servicemen 
and women have paid a high price. Unfortunately, some of our veterans 
have had to fight two wars, one abroad and then


one back at home. I am very pleased this Congress has recognized that 
to some great measure and has done much more this year for our veterans 
than ever before. But in my district, where the Veterans Administration 
Hospital remains closed, this notion is particularly poignant of two 
wars. The closure of this hospital has left many veterans in my 
district with no choice but to travel long distances either to 
Shreveport, Louisiana, or Jackson, Mississippi, for hospital care. 
Though the Veterans Administration has recently announced plans to 
rebuild a bigger and better hospital in New Orleans, and I applaud the 
decision for it is the right one, those doors will still not open for a 
few years, leaving many veterans with few options. The VA has also 
suffered through a backlog of 6,000 Veterans Administration claims in 
Louisiana alone right now. The problem is nationwide and it is growing.

So today, with Veterans Day not far off, we honor and recognize our 
veterans in Louisiana who have paid a high price for our collective 
freedom. We do this by memorializing them in this significant way and 
memorializing their sacrifices forever by renaming the Main Post Office 
Building in New Orleans the Louisiana Armed Services Veterans Memorial 
Post Office. I urge passage of this bill.