# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `83faa24aca6e7ee8aa324167e8808bc3`
`Mr. HASTERT — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. HASTERT. I thank the chairman, and I rise today in strong 
opposition to 1591.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to say to my friend from Wisconsin, I have a 
great deal of respect for the fights that he has fought on this floor 
for over 30 years, but we do disagree.

Supplemental spendings are intended to provide additional funding for 
programs and activities that are too urgent and pressing to wait for 
the regular appropriations process. To be clear, only emergency funds 
should be included in this supplemental. Period. So if Democrats are 
looking for an avenue to send money back to their districts, they 
should look to regular order.

Last year when the Senate tried to include over $14 billion in 
nonemergency funds in the supplemental, House Republicans demanded a 
clean bill. And when the House sat down with the other body to 
negotiate a final bill, we accepted nothing less than a supplemental 
free of unrelated and nonemergency funding.

Why did we do that? Because we wanted to pledge the faithful support 
of this Congress to the members of the armed services serving in harm's 
way. This legislation should remain focused on the needs of the troops 
and not become a vehicle for extraneous spending and policy proposals.

In yet another show of a different way, the same Members who screamed 
for a straight up or down vote on minimum wage legislation just 1 year 
ago are today trying to attach that legislation to a wartime 
supplemental. And the very Members who voted to reinstitute PAYGO rules 
just 2 months ago are here today casting fiscal responsibility to the 
wind.

This bill should be limited to necessary funding for our troops 
serving bravely in Iraq and around the world in the war on terror. I 
ask my honorable Democratic friends how the Democrats can on the one 
hand say they support our troops by providing them with money, but on 
the other undermine them by telegraphing a date for their withdrawal 
from Iraq.

Congress should under no circumstances micromanage the war and have 
politicians making decisions that should be left to our Commander in 
Chief and generals on the ground. Even The Washington Post and the Los 
Angeles Times, hardly supporters of this administration, have 
editorialized that this legislation oversteps the bounds of Congress 
and both support a Presidential veto of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation and 
think long and hard about its consequences. This bill is fiscally 
irresponsible; it holds our troops hostage to nonemergency


spending and policy proposals, and it signals to the insurgents and 
terrorists around the world a lack of American will to do what is 
necessary to win the war on terror.

Vote ''no'' on H.R. 1591.