---
---

# HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
## `8407ade51a95344d45ab70b4a8ce72d3`
`Mr. DOMENICI — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I wish today to pay tribute to the 
contributions of Hispanic Americans as we commemorate Hispanic Heritage 
Month. This occasion welcomes the opportunity to celebrate the 
achievements made by Hispanic Americans to enrich the culture and day-
to-day life of the United States.

Today, there is no denying the strength and impact of Hispanic 
Americans, who are now more than 40 million strong. In my home State of 
New Mexico, 44 percent of the total population is made up of people of 
Hispanic descent, which according to the Census Bureau, is the largest 
proportion of any State in the Union. What has truly been remarkable to 
me over the years is the extent to which the Hispanic community has 
thrived in every facet of civic life.

For instance, I am proud to call attention to the remarkable 
achievement of PFC Jose F. Valdez, one of 48 Hispanic American Medal of 
Honor recipients. Born and raised in Governador, NM, Jose served during 
World War II near Rosenkrantz, France. He heroically saved the lives of 
his fellow comrades by engaging in a firefight which allowed the 
soldiers to escape after an enemy counterattack. Similar tales of 
bravery are prevalent in the history of Hispanic Americans, who have 
served with distinction in every U.S. military campaign including our 
current engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In the areas of science, medicine, sport, art, business, and public 
service, the various achievements of the Hispanic community are 
immeasurable. This year, Hispanic Business magazine celebrated its 25th 
anniversary by profiling 500 of the largest Hispanic-owned companies in 
the United States, a nearly tenfold increase from the magazine's 
initial listing in 1982. These companies boast total revenues of $36.6 
billion, which is a sizable contribution to the American economy.

Twenty-five of these top-ranked companies join me in calling New 
Mexico their home. At the top of this list is Manuel Lujan Agencies 
from Albuquerque, NM, which has also been awarded ''Most Admired 
Company'' by New Mexico's top 100 private companies. Also included in 
this list is Centinel Bank of Taos in Taos, NM, which is one of the 
very few minority-owned financial institutions in the United States. I 
am pleased that Manuel Lujan Agencies and Centinel Bank of Taos are 
joined by such firms as Roses Southwest Papers, Applied Tech 
Associates, Networx and Sparkle Maintenance Inc. The fact, is Hispanics 
in New Mexico today lead a growing number of firms that help set the 
pace for a growing economy in my State, and many of them are firms 
involving high technology, construction, and service industries.

While there is no doubt that Hispanics have fought to protect our 
freedoms and made advancements in the corporate world, they are also 
leaving their imprint on the world of entertainment through sports and 
the arts. Of the athletes currently playing in the National Football 
League, 24 players are of Hispanic descent. These players are 
represented on 16 teams across the country, and during a recent 
football matchup, Grammy winners Gloria Estefan and the musical group 
Ozomatli performed the national anthem at the halftime show in honor of 
this month's celebration. In my home State, music legends like Al 
Hurricane and the popular Tobias Rene add to the rich cultural 
contributions being made to our society.

I encourage Americans to take this moment to remember all of the 
areas of our society that have been influenced by the Hispanic 
community. I would also like you to recall the sacrifices Hispanics 
have made to preserve the liberties and freedom that make America a 
beacon of hope to millions around the world. These men and women have 
stood up as proud Americans and volunteered to protect their families 
and communities during the global war on terror. Our Nation is stronger 
because of these men and women. They deserve the gratitude of the 
Nation for their sacrifices.

The tradition of Hispanic Heritage Month dates back almost 40 years. 
In 1968, Congress started by designating a week to celebrate Hispanic 
heritage. By the early 1980s, we decided to extend the designation to 
cover a month starting on September 15. The extra time has been a 
necessary and appropriate change to allow us to recognize the long 
record of contributions Hispanic Americans have made to our communities 
and to our Nation. I call on the American people to join with all 
children, families, organizations, communities, churches, cities, and 
States across the Nation to observe the month with appropriate 
ceremonies and activities.
