---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `841322e7ca915ea93183259e20702aa7`
`Mr. BENNET — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, as you could hear from the remarks of the 
Senator from North Carolina and the Senator from Oklahoma, there is 
agreement on some issues. We know the status quo is not going to work 
when it comes to health care. We know our families cannot endure 
another decade of double-digit cost increases every single year in 
their health insurance premiums. We know we can do better than devoting 
a fifth of our GDP to health care, when every other industrialized 
country in the world devotes less than half that to health care. We 
know the biggest drivers of our outyear budget and debt--which we do 
need to be enormously concerned about--are rising Medicare and Medicaid 
costs, and the biggest drivers of those are rising health care costs.


I would say, again, as I have said before, I hope we can start on 
where the areas of agreement are and try to work from there. Because 
our small businesses and working families all across this country, 
including in my State of Colorado, cannot endure another 10 years like 
the 10 years they have endured. We will not be able to compete 
effectively in this global economy, where we are devoting more than 
twice what any other industrialized country in the world is devoting to 
just one sector of our economy--health care--and we are not going to 
keep the kind of commitment the Senator from Oklahoma was talking about 
to the young girl in the photograph or, for that matter, to my three 
daughters at home, who are 10, 8, and 5. I am deeply concerned about 
where we are with respect to our deficits and our debt.

So while we are disagreeing about the outcomes, I think there is a 
growing understanding that the current system just will not do.

















Afghanistan


Mr. President, I am here to talk a little bit about Afghanistan, and 
just for a few minutes because yesterday we reached the 8-year 
anniversary of the war in Afghanistan. On this occasion, we should 
remember how unified our entire country was over our mission there when 
it began. The Nation came together after 9/11 to support our military 
as it bravely took the fight to the Taliban and the terrorists in 
Afghanistan. We had one ultimate goal: Removing al-Qaida's safe haven.

Our military succeeded in toppling the Taliban government, which had 
allowed al-Qaida to use Afghanistan as a staging ground and a hiding 
place. Once the Taliban was removed from power, an international 
coalition, led by U.S. forces, went about the long and difficult task 
of defeating al-Qaida for good.



Yet now, 8 years later and with a new administration trying to 
determine America's best way forward, many Americans are understandably 
concerned and frustrated. Afghanistan is not where any of us want it to 
be, and our ultimate goal has not yet been met. Al-Qaida is still there 
and in Pakistan as well. Afghanistan's Government has not been able to 
take centralized control of the country. Elections there have not added 
to the legitimacy of the Karzai government. We have been left to 
reassess our position, and we must do this reassessment together.

Policymakers are asking the important and right question: What are 
the proper goals for our military effort in Afghanistan? How best can 
we accomplish them? Are these goals purely military goals? Can they be 
better solved with more troops or fewer? Do we need a more complex new 
mission in our future, which the military aspect is only one small 
part?

Unless we are sure, unless all of us are sure that more troops can 
help us meet our goals, we should not send them. Our soldiers already 
have sacrificed much. This time, in particular, is a difficult one for 
servicemembers and their families, and it is also proving to be a 
difficult one for those of us making policy.

As we decide what our direction will be in Afghanistan, the fallen 
brave soldiers we lost from Fort Carson this week are solemn reminders 
of how consequential our decisions have been and will be. Those of us 
who opposed going to war in Iraq, including President Obama, believed 
then it was the wrong war at the wrong time. We believed that 
Washington's focus on Iraq was diverting precious resources from our 
efforts in Afghanistan. We are still dealing with the consequences of 
the decision to focus on Iraq, both in Iraq and in Afghanistan.

Recalling recent history is so important because now we have to find 
new wisdom on Afghanistan. At the same time, all 100 Members of this 
body know we must take great care as we make decisions that will affect 
the lives of our men and women in uniform and their families. For every 
soldier who answers our Nation's call to serve in combat, a new 
deployment is akin to a new decision to go to war. That is why our 
national purpose and their mission must be absolutely clear.

That is also why, as Members of this body, we must be willing to ask 
hard questions. The country will be counting on the Senate to 
scrutinize and understand the purpose of any decision to deploy 
additional troops. As we, together, debate a new approach to 
Afghanistan, I will be motivated by the memory of the Fort Carson 
soldiers who died this past week, as well as all those who have fallen 
in rank and Afghanistan. I know all of us feel the same way. They 
served honorably. So must we.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.