# TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `84158aeca66657f93a299fcfa878033e`
`Ms. PELOSI — 9 November 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for his leadership on the Ways and 
Means Committee. I commend the distinguished chairman of the Ways and 
Means Committee, and respect the leadership also of the distinguished 
ranking member of that committee.

Thank you, Mr. Rangel, for your leadership in bringing this important 
legislation to the floor. It enables us as Members of Congress to plant 
a flag for fiscal responsibility, to plant a flag for the middle class 
in our country, and to plant a flag for competitiveness, to keep 
America number one.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation is important because it provides long 
overdue middle-class tax relief, preventing a tax increase that will 
fall upon the middle class come this next year. The bill is about tax 
fairness; it is about fiscal responsibility; and, again, it is about 
keeping America competitive.

When we talk about fiscal responsibility, unfortunately, it always 
seems necessary, after listening to my Republican colleagues, to set 
the record straight.

The Democratic Party is the party of fiscal responsibility. When 
President Clinton was President, his four final budgets were in 
surplus. He left office with our budget on a trajectory of $5.6 
trillion in surplus. Sadly, the Bush administration reversed that 
taking us to over $3 trillion in deficit, a swing. Now we are at a 
swing of about $10 trillion, a swing that is greater than anyone has 
ever seen in history in terms of fiscal irresponsibility.

And what did the Congressional Budget Office under the Republican


leadership say was the leading cause for that? Tax cuts for the 
wealthy. Don't blame it on the war; don't blame it on anything other 
than what it really was: tax cuts for the wealthy.

And so today we see a change. Tax cuts for the wealthy under the Bush 
administration and a Republican Congress paid for by the middle class. 
Today we reverse that: tax cuts for the middle class, paid for by the 
wealthiest people in our country.

And as we give this tax break, who is getting it? Think of it, 23 
million middle-class families are protected from higher taxes due to 
the alternative minimum tax. Thirty million homeowners will receive 
property tax relief. Twelve million children will benefit from the 
expanded child tax credit, and 4.5 million families will get help 
affording college education. This is in addition to our earlier 
investment of the largest expansion of college affordability since the 
GI Bill in 1944. Thousands of our men and women in uniform will receive 
tax relief under the earned income tax credit. They were prohibited 
from qualifying for that because our Republican colleagues would not 
disregard combat pay in that consideration.

So fiscal responsibility, tax cuts for the middle class, and 
competitiveness for our country. This weekend as we go into observing 
Veterans Day, we all know the great debt of gratitude we owe our 
veterans for their service to our country, their sacrifice, their 
patriotism and the sacrifices they and their families are willing to 
make.

What veterans have done over the generations is to protect our 
democracy. Essential to the success of a democracy, though, is a 
thriving middle class, in our country and in countries throughout the 
world, a thriving middle class. And this legislation is in furtherance 
of supporting that middle class and therefore supporting our democracy.

In keeping with our pay-as-you-go rules with no new deficit spending, 
this legislation will ensure that our children will not inherit a 
legacy of debt. In terms of competitiveness, this legislation extends 
the R&D tax credit and new markets tax credits, among other things; but 
I mention those two because they are directly related to our Innovation 
Agenda, our commitment to competitiveness to keep America number one.

So, again: fiscal responsibility, favoring the middle class, keeping 
America competitive and number one. Democrats are committed to putting 
middle-class families first. The choice is simple: tax relief for 
millions of middle-class families or protecting tax loopholes, the Wall 
Street loophole, that allows a privileged few to pay a lower rate than 
America's teachers, firefighters, nurses, doctors, police, and our men 
and women in uniform fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is about the 
people who are the backbone of America.

The choice is a simple one. Today we Democrats say join us in voting 
in favor of America's middle class.

I urge the passage of this legislation and again commend the 
distinguished chairman and distinguished Chair of the subcommittee, Mr. 
Neal, for their leadership.

I am proud of the courage that my colleagues have shown to protect 
our middle class and to do so in a fiscally sound way and in a way 
that, again, keeps America competitive, honoring the service of our men 
and women in uniform, to build a future worthy of their sacrifice.