---
---

# None
## `84171cf2b6bc287f305242a45ff8861b`
`Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS — 31 July 2008`

---


Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join with the 
citizens of the Fifth Congressional District, State of Washington in 
recognition of the 161st Infantry Battalion, 81st Brigade Combat Team, 
Washington Army National Guard as it prepares for its second one-year 
tour of duty in Iraq since its mobilization in 2003. Soldiers of the 
81st Brigade Combat Team will be responsible for convoy security and 
force protection missions throughout Iraq, where they previously 
deployed in 2004 and 2005.

From its inception, the mission of the National Guard has been the 
defense of our Nation's borders. However, since the terrorist attacks 
of September 11, 2001 the defense of our borders has become an ''away 
game'' as our military has taken the fight to the enemy. No less 
involved has been the Army National Guard.

The Chief of the National Guard Bureau, Army Lieutenant General H. 
Steven Blum reported that at one point in the war on terror, National 
Guard members made up almost half of the ground forces in Iraq and 
since 9/11, more than 400,000 Guardsmen have been mobilized in support 
of operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom.

Every aspect of a military mission is critical to its success and 
each one of these Guardsmen has committed time for pre-deployment 
training, leaving family and business behind to prepare themselves for 
a mission of historic and global significance.

We are grateful to these citizen soldiers and we thank them for their 
selfless-service in peacetime and war, here in this Nation and 
throughout the world. Their simple love of country and dedication to 
liberty compels them to serve this great nation and so today we 
recognize their commitment, sacrifice and courage in their willingness 
to protect and defend our Nation in the Global War on Terrorism.

We are also grateful for the sacrifice of family members who also pay 
a price for freedom. We may never be able to adequately thank our 
soldiers and their families but we must always support them. It is with 
a deep sense of pride, Madam Speaker, I invite my colleagues to join me 
in thanking the members of the 161st Infantry Battalion, 81st Brigade 
Combat Team for their service.
