# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `8437b82b77adaa0a06ad1f9eb089c0ff`
`Mr. REED â€” 28 January 2010`

---


Mr. REED. Madam President, our Nation faces unprecedented fiscal and 
economic challenges. This situation did not happen overnight. It did 
not happen in 2009. It is a situation created by 8 years of 
mismanagement and complacency under President Bush. For a decade, the 
easy replaced the difficult, and instead of seizing the chance in 2001 
to wipe out our national debt, President Bush and his supporters went 
in the opposite direction. They focused on the short term, they 
encouraged lax regulatory oversight, particularly of financial markets, 
and they adopted an economic doctrine that called for borrowing to fund 
virtually every major Presidential initiative--tax cuts that were 
skewed toward the rich, difficult and costly wars in Iraq and in 
Afghanistan, and a prescription drug program that failed to negotiate 
costs with drugmakers and still leaves many seniors without coverage.

Let's be clear: When President Bush took office, he was handed a 
projected 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion, which was quickly frittered 
away. In 8 years, the Bush administration added more debt than all the 
previous administrations combined, all the while middle-income 
households saw their earning power decline.

Due to these failed and irresponsible economic and fiscal policies, 
the Obama administration inherited the worst recession since the 1930s 
and a $1.3 trillion budget deficit. It should be no surprise to anyone 
that President Obama and Congress cannot reverse this mountain of bad 
decisions and deficits in a year, but we have been trying. Indeed, 
according to the very same nonpartisan agency, the Congressional Budget 
Office, that predicts our budget deficit for this year, the health care 
reform bill the Senate passed reduced health care spending and would 
have cut the deficit by $130 billion in the first 10 years and over $1 
trillion over 20 years. We also had to take action on a recovery bill 
that kept States from cutting police, firemen, and teachers, gave our 
Governors funds to repair and rebuild our infrastructure, and provided 
$288 billion in tax cuts to help middle-class families and businesses 
deal with the recession. These were not easy steps, but they were the 
right steps, and it is fair to note that the other side of the aisle's 
answer to these proposals has been to oppose these measures and offer 
no coherent alternative.

Today, because of the shortcomings of the Bush administration and the 
recession that started in December 2007, we face the question of 
whether we want to default on the government's financial obligations to 
Social Security recipients and those who have purchased U.S. bonds. If 
we follow the course proposed by the other side of the aisle and vote 
no, the outcome is an even worse economic situation. Ask any economist 
of any background whether the government should default on its 
obligation and the answer is a resounding no. Yet that is what is 
proposed by too many here in the Senate. Although it is troubling to 
have to raise the debt to pay for a series of irresponsible choices, 
tax cuts, and a war in Iraq--all of which I opposed--it would be 
irresponsible to reject this measure.

There is no doubt that we need to address the long-term fiscal 
challenges facing our Nation. However, we should not lose sight of the 
fact that producing a budget is not merely adjusting numbers on a 
ledger; it is allocating resources to serve people. Today, our first 
order of business has to be ensuring that economic recovery has taken 
root. While some areas of the country have shown signs of recovery, 
most Americans have not seen the benefits. In places such as Rhode 
Island, where State governments lack the resources to help people who 
are struggling to deal with crushing unemployment levels, the need for 
Federal assistance remains great.



To balance the budget, we will have to make very difficult decisions, 
but many of us here have made them before. In 1993, without any support 
from congressional Republicans, Democrats made the tough decisions and 
took politically difficult votes that brought the budget surpluses that 
were handed off to President Bush 8 years later and then quickly 
squandered. Through the tough decisions we made, we were able to not 
only turn the economy around but eliminate deficit spending and cut the 
debt. Indeed, I remember that in 2001 some on the other side used the 
argument that we were paying off the government's debt too quickly as 
one reason they supported President Bush's reckless tax cuts for the 
wealthiest. And I stand ready to work with those who want to do the 
hard work of making the compromises that are necessary when it comes to 
spending and revenues. I am ready to support a pay-go rule that says 
you cannot pass a new bill without offsetting its costs, and I would 
urge my colleagues to reconsider the largess of the last farm bill, the 
multibillion dollar giveaway to ethanol makers, and the host of tax 
cuts for oil companies and companies that shift American jobs overseas.

It is instructive to remember that in 1993 the challenge was met, as 
it should have been, through the normal legislative process, not by 
handing off the tough choices to a deficit commission. Congress can do 
better than give its responsibilities to a commission whose 
recommendations would very likely tilt toward cuts in programs that are 
crucial to our seniors and our young people. At the same time, the 
record shows that similar commissions have been unsuccessful in the 
past. It is only when elected representatives tackle the tough issues 
that we see positive results. Conversely, when these issues are 
ignored, as they were during the last administration, we see how 
quickly fiscal responsibility can unravel.

President Obama and this Democratic-led Congress have already begun 
to take the hard and decisive steps to get our fiscal house in order. 
In response to skyrocketing health care costs, the Senate passed a 
health care bill that would meet President Obama's goal of reducing 
health care spending below projected levels, reining in the deficit by 
$132 billion over the next 10 years and by up to $1.6 trillion over the 
next 20 years.

We have a difficult series of choices before us. Yet we can respond 
to the crisis of the moment and get our Nation on a path of fiscal 
soundness.