---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `843e8e753b8497fff6abb7bd35c1d7f0`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the 
House.

And to my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle, it sounds 
like our past colleague Mr. Snyder and his family served our country 
well, and we appreciate his contributions to our country in serving in 
public service.



Mr. Speaker, as you know, this is the first night of business, 
returning back from the Presidents Day break. Before we left we had a 
week-long debate on the question of Iraq, a nonbinding resolution 
opposing the troop escalation that the President has put forth at this 
time.

And the discussion continues, Mr. Speaker, as we start, Democrats and 
Republicans, molding out the direction that we have to head in in this 
country. The American people, Mr. Speaker, voted for change and a new 
direction. And to bring about that kind of change and new direction, 
there are going to have to be some votes here on this floor that are 
going to speak volumes back home of how we are going to proceed from 
this point on and how we are going to assist our men and women in 
harm's way and how we are going to deal with this issue in Iraq and in 
Afghanistan and other domestic issues that we have here.

I am very pleased to not only share with the Members, Mr. Speaker, 
but also with the American people the fact that 246 Members of the 
House voted in the affirmative to disagree with the President as it 
relates to the recent troop escalation of some 20,000 combat troops and 
anywhere from 3,000 to 4,000 support personnel being sent to Iraq, 
which was announced by the President on January 10 of this year.



I think it is very, very important to note that that was a nonbinding 
resolution. Even though it was nonbinding, it really set the course for 
the Congress to play a role.

I think the reason why we are in the majority, and when I say ''we,'' 
the Democrats are in the majority right now, Mr. Speaker, is not the 
fact that our message was better than the Republican message in the 
last election. I think the American people were counting on change and 
heading in a new direction.

So it is important, and I am encouraging the Members in a bipartisan 
way, that we work very hard to give the American people what they want 
and to give the men and women in uniform what they need. I think that 
is a Congress having oversight hearings; a Congress debating the issues 
as it relates to troop readiness; a Congress that is willing to take 
the tough votes when they need to be taken; to be able to provide the 
kind of leadership from the congressional oversight end.

The President is the commander-in-chief. That is outlined in the 
Constitution. No one is really trying to bother that or hinder that. We 
just want to make sure that the troops have what they need when they go 
into harm's way, need it be Iraq or Afghanistan.

I mentioned a little earlier in my talk about readiness. I think it 
is important that we identify this, because it is used a lot here on 
the floor. Being a member of the Armed Services Committee and having 
had an opportunity to travel to Iraq twice, and looking forward to 
going back soon and going to Afghanistan and other areas where we have 
a military presence, readiness is very, very important.

Readiness is almost like if you have an illness and you are going in 
for a major operation, you want to make sure that that doctor has what 
he or she needs to be able to carry out your procedure.

I think it is important as we look at our National Guard and we look 
at our Reservists and we look at our active duty that they have what 
they need to carry out the mission if they are sent to Iraq. You can't 
go unless you have up-armored Humvees that are going to match the 
mission. You should not go and we should not send them if they don't 
have the Kevlar vests that they need. They should not go and we should 
not send them if they don't have the kind of backing that they need 
from a support standpoint that is trained and ready for the mission in 
Baghdad, need it be door-to-door searches, need it be guerilla warfare, 
need it be the general equipment one may need to carry out that 
mission.

There is nothing wrong with the word ''readiness.'' I put it in the 
category, Mr. Speaker, of responsibility. I think it is important. I 
think it is irresponsible for us to send men and women into harm's way 
without the necessary tools that they need.

Now, there are some Members that are saying, well, why do you have 
Members concerned? A colonel told us or the President told us or I read 
somewhere in a news release or I saw on the news that they have 
everything they need, and why would we send them over there in the 
first place? We all have their best interests at heart.

I am going to share with Members, Mr. Speaker, that being a member of 
the Armed Services Committee in the last two Congresses and this 
Congress too, I have seen the Secretary of Defense say they have what 
they need. ''Anything the troops need, we will give it to them.'' And 
later I will pick up a news account that they don't have what they 
need, or go to Walter Reed and talk to a soldier that ended up being 
blown up in a Humvee because of an improvised explosive device, because 
that Humvee did not have the up-armor that it needed. It is the total 
opposite of what I hear here on Capitol Hill and what I have seen at 
Walter Reed.

Let's take Walter Reed out. I have gone to Germany, Mr. Speaker. I 
have seen service men and women without legs. They didn't have what 
they needed. We were told they had what they needed, but they didn't 
have it.

Just 2 weeks ago, last week during the debate, I think it was on 
Tuesday or Wednesday, I was at the White House for a meeting and we had 
an opportunity to ask the President questions and I had an opportunity 
to ask the President a question. And I shared with the President, we 
talked the nonbinding resolution. The President agreed he thought that 
it would pass here on the floor because the votes were there. He has 
people that are counting these votes.

I said, ''Mr. President, I think it is important as we look at this 
as being a nonbinding resolution, there will be a binding resolution or 
a binding supplemental, emergency supplemental for the war in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and there will be language in there, and you shouldn't 
have a problem with it, to say that we should not send the troops 
unless they are ready. I am not talking about mentally, I am talking 
about having the equipment they need to carry out the mission and not 
find themselves in harm's way without having the kind of backing that 
they need to be able to carry out the mission once again.''

Of course, the President came back in a very roaring voice saying, 
''Kendrick, do you believe that I would send men and women into harm's 
way? I hear about the funerals. I write the letters and I call the 
families. You believe that I would do that?''

I don't believe that the President would do that. But let me just 
share this with you: It has happened, and I think it is important that 
we realize that it is happening.

Yes, if I am talking to a friend of mine and they are saying, well, 
you know, I know there have been reports of the new car that I bought, 
that it has some sort of problem with the engine that has come out in 
the auto report or what have you, but I am going to be okay regardless.

Maybe it is not the best analogy that I can come up with at this 
point, but we have been told that the troops have what they need, we 
have been told they are ready for the mission that they are being sent 
to, and we found out otherwise later.

Now, Mr. Speaker, it gives me no pleasure, and Members, it gives me 
no pleasure, we are at 3,154 men and women in uniform that are dead 
now. We appreciate their contributions to our country and we appreciate 
the way that they have applied themselves on behalf of what we sent 
them over to do. But I will tell you standing here as a Member of 
Congress, that some of these deaths could have been prevented if they 
had what they needed.

Now, Members can go back and forth on how you feel about leadering 
up, manning up and womaning up to be able to do what you need to do as 
a Member of Congress to fight on behalf of these individuals. I am not 
questioning anyone's patriotism. I am not questioning anyone's 
integrity. I am not even questioning any Member of Congress' will or 
desire to make sure that we give the troops what they need.

I believe we all are well-intended. But we have to make sure that 
when that man or woman leaves their family on a tarmac, need it be at 
an active duty military camp or at a commercial airport where you have 
Reserve and


National Guard individuals that are leaving to go into harm's way, it 
is our duty and our responsibility as Members of Congress that have 
oversight of the taxpayer dollars to make sure, even though someone has 
said it is going to be okay, but to make sure that they have what they 
need. It is that simple.

So, I was not shocked, Mr. Speaker, by seeing the bipartisan vote 
before we left on President's break. I am definitely not a prophet and 
I am not a psychic, but I knew, based on the message from the American 
people, Democrats and Republicans, I am not just talking about proud 
Democrats kind of got together and said hey, let's do this. We don't 
have 246 Members here in this House on the majority right now, so it 
took 17 Republicans to come along with Democrats or to be with 
Democrats or to be with individuals that understood that message last 
November from the American people.

As far as I am concerned, in the 30-something Working Group, we don't 
focus on issues, ''let's go to the floor and make sure we gain a 
greater majority.'' Not when it comes to national security. Not when it 
comes to the very heartbeats and the way of life of those individuals 
that put their lives on the line and those that have put their lives on 
the line in the past, and I am going to talk about them a little later, 
Mr. Speaker.

You don't play politics with that. That is national security. That is 
someone's daddy, that is someone's mother, that is someone's son, that 
is someone's daughter that may not come home because someone told 
someone else in Washington, D.C. that it was going to be okay.

Now, there are a lot of folks around here editorializing on what Mr. 
Murtha is talking about from Pennsylvania, who is an outstanding Member 
of the Congress and also happens to be the chairman of the Defense 
Appropriations subcommittee.


I think it is important that we look at someone who is a decorated 
Marine, that has fought for us to salute one flag, who served in 
Congress double digit years, that still is willing to serve this 
country. We have someone that is willing to say I voted for the war, as 
Mr. Murtha did, and to say that I have been to Iraq, I have had 
oversight hearings, and I must add that he has had more oversight 
hearings since this Congress has been active in the last 2 months than 
they had in the entire 109th Congress with 2 years combined and then 
some.

And that the committee is hard at work to make sure that when those 
family members look at those men and women that are going into harm's 
way, that they know, not maybe, not, well, you know, I am trying to get 
there.

I heard what the President said. I heard what the Secretary of 
Defense said. I even heard a member of the brass say it. When they go 
out on patrol, and I am not a military person and I am not going to 
represent myself as someone who has served in uniform. I have just been 
a State trooper and I have been an elected official for 13 years, and I 
have served here in this Congress for the last 4 years and a couple of 
months. And I have been federalized by the people that elected me from 
the Seventeenth Congressional District.

I will tell you this: I know what my job is, and I know what Mr. 
Murtha's job is, and I know what the job of all of the Members of 
Congress, including the Members of the Senate and the President of the 
United States and the people that he appoints, that we need to make 
sure, we need to make sure beyond 100 percent, we need to make sure 160 
percent, if we can, 200 percent, that those men and women that go into 
war, that their chance to come back to this country the way they left 
is our paramount duty.

So, I am not really tied up in a debate, Mr. Speaker, and I don't 
think here on this side of the aisle and even some of the Members on 
the other side of the aisle are tied up in the debate about the details 
of the obvious.

The obvious is, Mr. Speaker, the fact that the troops should have 
what they need when they go into harm's way. Why are we even talking 
about that? Why are some Members objecting to that being in the 
emergency supplemental, to say that they should have what they need to 
go into war? If it wasn't so serious, it would be funny. So I think the 
Members, we need to kind of put that to the side and say that there are 
other issues that we have to deal with.

Profiteering of the war, reams and reams of paper, Inspector General 
reports of how U.S. contractors have been fleecing of the U.S. taxpayer 
dollar. Our paramount, one of our fiscal paramount responsibilities is 
to make sure that the Federal tax dollar is not only appropriated, but 
disseminated in the right way to make sure that ultimate accountability 
is paramount once again.

So I am excited about what is happening here, Mr. Speaker, I am 
excited about the debate that is taking place, and I am excited about 
the forward progress that we are making in that area.

I just want to address one more thing before I turn it over to my 
colleague, Ms. Wasserman Schultz.

Mr. Speaker, I was very disturbed last week and have been disturbed, 
and here in the 30-Something Working Group, we have been talking quite 
a bit about our veterans. Now, I mentioned that a little earlier 
because the veterans, we say we are the 30-something Working Group. A 
lot of those veterans are 30-something now. Many of them are even 20-
something, because of their service. Some of them are 40 and 50-
something. And they are coming back.

In the last Congress, in the 109th and 108th, those were the only two 
Congresses I can account for, because beyond that it was my mother 
serving here, and I am pretty sure that I can get a good account from 
her about what happened or I can research in the Congressional Record, 
we have Members coming to the floor chest-beating, ''Oh, I support the 
men and women in uniform and our veterans, and I am going to be in the 
veterans parade and I am going to wave and carry on and I am going to 
let them know that I love them.''

Well, let me just say this: In the 108th and the 109th Congresses, 
veteran benefits were cut, period. They were cut. And as we continue to 
talk about it, as we continue to dissect the President's budget, this 
document here, as we continue to dissect this budget here, find out 
what is in it and what is not in it, what is going to be given to the 
American people and what is going to be taken away, we are going to 
find out where this administration falls and the old majority in this 
House falls on the issue of veterans.



Now, I can speak, and I know we can speak, in a very bold voice when 
we talk about our commitment to veterans. I have a veterans hospital in 
my district. I have actually two. When I go and visit, I look at those 
men and women. They could have served back in Korea, World War II. I 
even met a gentleman who served in Grenada, Haiti, 82nd Airborne. You 
have these individuals that are there. Vietnam, that are there. Some 
folks may not know that they served, but we know they served.

Our responsibility in Congress is not to just carry on and talk about 
how we support the men and women in uniform and those who have served, 
and we honor them and we appreciate them; but I think it is important 
that we speak with our dollars and our commitment here as Members of 
Congress.

In January of 2003, the Bush administration cuts off veterans health 
care for 164,000 veterans. That is on our Web site.

March 2003, the Republican budget cuts $14 billion from veterans 
health care. That was passed by Congress with 199 Democrats voting 
against that measure of cutting the $14 billion.

In March 2004, the Republican budget shortchanged veterans health 
care again by $1.5 billion. That was passed by the Congress, 201 
Democrats voting against that measure.

March 2005, President Bush's budget shortchanges veterans health care 
again by more than $2 billion. Again, 201 Democrats voted against that. 
This was House Resolution 95. The vote number was 98.

In the 30-Something Working Group, we actually pull information from 
the Congressional Record. I think it is important that Members and the 
American people realize that.

Again, November 2005, the Bush administration as it relates to the 
shortfall, Democrats fought that summer to be able to get back the $2.7 
billion that was taken out. And we have a member


of the Appropriations Committee here, but in the last continuing 
resolution because the Republicans did not do their job, Mr. Speaker, 
in making sure that the work was done when the Democratic Congress took 
over, they couldn't get all of the bills passed. They just kept punting 
down the street. In our continuing resolution, we retooled Members' 
projects and other nonissues that weren't a priority because of the 
thirst that veterans have and the Department of Veterans has to provide 
the services for our men and women that serve. The Democrats increased 
the VA health care budget by $3.6 billion in a joint funding 
resolution. I say all of that to indicate it is important that we do 
this.

One last point. While we were on break, The Washington Post: 
''Soldiers face neglect and frustration at Army top medical facility'' 
here in Washington, D.C., Walter Reed Hospital. This is a Washington 
Post article, Sunday, February 18, 2007. It was dropped here on my 
doorstep in Washington, D.C. I read this, and it was a follow-up 
article. I think it is important that the American people and Members 
of Congress pay close attention to what is happening.

You have patients and outpatients that are saying that Walter Reed, 
they are encountering a messy bureaucratic battlefield that reminds 
them of the real one that they faced overseas.

It also talks in this article about rats and mice and dead insects in 
this hospital. Smells and carpet stains.

Again, Mr. Speaker, our job, yes, we say we support the troops. Yes, 
we say we support veterans. We are supposed to say that. But when we 
come here and we take our voting card out and we go to these 
committees, we have to make sure that we follow through on what we say.

So I am excited by the fact that by reading everything that I have 
read about what has happened in the last two Congresses and beyond, 
that we have already put $3.6 billion, and we haven't had a full cycle 
to be able to even dissect the budget and to appropriate. So saying 
that, I want to pass it over to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz), a good friend of mine. I am glad she is here to 
shed light on our message here tonight.