---
---

# None
## `84410253e16bdec296910b5dd9540fca`
`Mr. ROE of Tennessee — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. ROE of Tennessee. I rise in support of this resolution, of which 
I am proud to be an original cosponsor.

I want to thank my good friend from New York, Representative Lowey, 
for her timely work in authoring this tribute.

The sudden and unexpected passing of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke 
earlier this week was a shock to all of us.

The depth of sadness that we felt at the news was a testament to his 
exemplary life of service to our country, in so many different 
capacities.

Ambassador Holbrooke was one of the most consequential world 
diplomats of the last half-century, and his tireless work in pursuit of 
United States national interests and international peace have put us 
all in his debt.

His advocacy for peace was of course most clearly shown during the 
conflict in Bosnia.

His tenacity and force of will brought the warring parties to the 
negotiation table in Dayton, Ohio, where he skillfully brokered the 
accord that ended the over 3 years of atrocities and bloody conflict.

Over 100,000 perished in the Bosnian war, and it is impossible to say 
how many thousands were saved by Ambassador Holbrooke's actions at 
Dayton.

And while that accomplishment would have been enough to mark any 
diplomatic career with high distinction, it was only one of the many 
facets of his service, which continued to the end of his life.



As Assistant Secretary of State for two regions of the world--East 
Asia and Europe, as United States ambassador to the United Nations, and 
as U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, he made 
his mark on many issues that remain urgent concerns today.

In New York at the U.N., he did much of the heavy lifting on 
Congressionally led efforts to rein in U.N. spending, to rationalize 
the dues paid by the United States, and to improve the standing of 
Israel in that multinational body.

Sadly, those concerns have returned with a renewed urgency--with the 
need for fundamental reform of U.N. budgets and the virulently anti-
Israel U.N. Human Rights Council (so called)--and the Congress can only 
hope to have such a tenacious, principled partner in the future.

Ambassador Holbrooke made his final appearance before our Committee 
on Foreign Affairs in the spring of last year, as U.S. Special 
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan.

We lament the loss of his matchless skills in those critical regions.

But while we grieve at his passing, let us renew our own commitment 
to success in Afghanistan as a fitting way to honor his service toward 
that end.

At this time we extend our condolences, our thoughts, and our prayers 
to his wife Kati, and to his children.

While we mourn the loss of a dedicated public servant, they mourn the 
loss of a husband and a father.

I urge all of my colleagues to join me in this expression of 
gratitude for the service of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke.