# None
## `844ff049c052173d3fb6b1b2f390c53b`
`Mr. CASEY — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. I thank the Senator.

The third pillar, just like the first two, should be to take prudent 
steps in this strategy.

The third and final pillar of a comprehensive U.S. strategy to coerce 
Iran into ending its defiance of the international community is to lay 
the groundwork for financial sanctions that make it increasingly 
difficult for Iranian companies and banks to do business with the 
global economy. The steps taken by the Treasury Department under the 
leadership of Secretary Paulson and his deputy, Stuart Levey, are a 
good first step. Utilizing existing U.S. law, such as the Patriot Act, 
the Treasury Department has convinced a series of major financial 
institutions in Western Europe and Asia to suspend business with 
Iranian financial institutions such as Bank Saderat and Bank Sepah by 
cutting off the access of these institutions to the U.S. financial 
system. The United States can pursue these measures outside the United 
Nations Security Council, as they involve U.S. laws and regulations. As 
a result, Iranian firms are increasingly forced to finance their 
transactions in Euros, not dollars, and find that conducting routine 
financial transactions to be more difficult and costly. Once again, we 
must demonstrate to the average Iranian that they are the ones who pay 
a price for the unwise decisions of the Iranian regime--which will only 
serve to heighten domestic unrest and dissatisfaction with the regime's 
current course.

It is for this reason I am so pleased to cosponsor the Iran Sanctions 
Enabling Act, introduced by my colleagues Senators Obama and Brownback. 
 This legislation would call upon the Treasury Department to publicly 
identify all companies that invest in a minimum level of funds in the 
Iranian economy, giving pension funds and individual investors an 
informed choice on whether to continue to direct funds to those firms 
that do business with Iran. In addition, the legislation would grant 
unfettered legal authority to State and local governments to divest 
their investment holdings of any such firms that do business in Iran. 
If the State of Pennsylvania, for example, wishes to wash its hands 
clean of any firms that directly or indirectly support Iran's pursuit 
of a nuclear program, this legislation ensures that it can do so free 
from any lawsuits.


I wish to conclude this statement by briefly discussing what we 
should not do. If we are to convince the Iranian regime that a nuclear 
weapons program and support for extremist groups are not in their best 
interests, then we should strive to remove any plausible excuse they 
have for engaging in such behavior. That means the United States should 
de-emphasize the threat of regime change. When people associated with 
the Vice President drop hints on their desire to overthrow the Iranian 
regime and the advantages of using military force, they only reinforce 
a strong nationalist streak within Iran and serve to rally the Iranian 
people around an otherwise unpopular government.

The Iranian people rightly aspire for democratic change. To the 
extent that the U.S. Government can support such aspirations in an 
effective manner, we should do so through quiet assistance to forces 
promoting civil society and the rule of law inside Iran. People-to-
people exchanges can help bring young Iranians to the United States and 
demonstrate the benefits of a democratic culture and a government 
informed by the consent of the people. Credible public diplomacy, 
including the transmission of accurate and unbiased news into Iran, is 
another necessary pillar. But, as Iraq has so painfully taught us, 
imposing democracy at the spear of bayonet is not a realistic option, 
especially when our military is already so overstretched.

So the United States should talk less about regime change and talk 
more about behavior change when it comes to Iran. We should make clear 
that Washington is prepared to engage an Iran that ends its illicit 
nuclear activities and ceases support for Hamas, Hezbollah, insurgent 
forces in Iraq, and other extremist groups across the region. Laying 
out a credible choice to the Iranian regime represents our best hope 
for defusing the crisis over Iran's nuclear program and persuading Iran 
to end its support for antidemocratic groups throughout the Middle 
East.

The tentative success achieved in North Korea gives us a model for 
which to aspire. During the President's first term, his administration 
raised the desirability of regime change in Pyongyang at every 
opportunity. Since 2005, under the leadership of Assistant Secretary 
Chris Hill, the United States has substituted patient diplomacy for 
fiery rhetoric and we may finally achieve real success in containing 
and rolling back North Korea's nuclear program.

Iran today represents one of the greatest national security 
challenges to the United States. It is incumbent that we respond to 
this threat with hardheaded diplomacy and an appropriate set of 
financial sanctions to squeeze the Iranian economy, putting aside for 
now ill-advised talk of hasty military action. Iran's leaders must be 
presented with a fundamental choice: end your defiance of the 
international community or face growing isolation.

I think we have an opportunity to get this policy right, but this 
will require bipartisan work. It will require cooperation in this body 
and the other body, and it will require the administration to work with 
the Congress to get this policy right. We cannot afford to get our 
Iranian policy wrong and make the same mistakes we made--this country 
made--leading up to the war in Iraq. So for that reason and all of the 
reasons I outlined in my statement, it is imperative that we do this 
carefully and thoughtfully to get this policy right, to prevent Iran 
from obtaining nuclear capability which threatens the Middle East and 
threatens the United States and threatens the entire world.

Madam President, I yield the floor.