# None
## `8456cd1a2770b8e241f416ed8756e8a5`
`Mr. DORGAN â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Madam President, this is a picture of a man named Woodrow 
Wilson Keeble, a Sioux Indian. Woodrow Wilson Keeble died 26 years ago. 
If you take a look at this soldier's medals, you will see two Bronze 
Stars, a Silver Star, the Distinguished Service Cross, the second 
highest medal given in our country, and Purple Hearts.

I want to tell my colleagues about Woody Keeble, a big man, well over 
6 foot, and well over 200 pounds. On Monday of next week at 2:30 in the 
afternoon, at the White House, President Bush will present the Medal of 
Honor to Woody Keeble. As I said, he has been dead for 26 years. His 
wife Blossom Keeble died last summer. We had hoped this would be done 
before his wife died, but that was not to be the case.

I want to tell my colleagues about him because it is so unusual that 
a Medal of Honor will be presented posthumously to a soldier who 
demonstrated great acts of courage and heroism in both the Second World 
War and the Korean war.

He was a Lakota Sioux born in Waubay, SD, and grew up in Wahpeton, 
ND, and lived most of his life there. He was wounded at least twice in 
World War II and three times in the Korean War. Let me describe what he 
did so that my colleagues will know why he is being given the Medal of 
Honor all of these years later.

In World War II Woody Keeble served with the famed 164th Infantry 
Regiment of the North Dakota National Guard. Shortly after joining in 
1942, he found himself on Guadalcanal, in some


of the most aggressive and dangerous hand-to-hand combat in the Second 
World War. He was in combat in the South Pacific until the war ended. 
He saw a great deal of combat. One of his fellow soldiers said the 
safest place to be was next to Woody. Woody earned a Bronze Star and 
Purple Heart in the Second World War. Woody was an unbelievable 
soldier.

Then the Korean War came along and at age 34 this Lakota Sioux Indian 
signed up again. He said: Somebody has to teach the kids how to fight. 
So he went to Korea. He was attached to George Company, 2nd Battalion, 
19th Infantry Regiment of the 24th Division. They were near the Kumsong 
River in North Korea in October of 1951. He was the acting platoon 
leader of the 1st platoon of ''G'' Company. Casualties were very heavy. 
Because the company's officers were killed, he ended up in charge of 
the 1st Platoon, the 2nd Platoon, and the 3rd Platoon. It was brutally 
cold in North Korea at the time, and the enemy, the Chinese, were 
entrenched on a hill with a rugged cliff, and the side of that mountain 
was a very difficult thing that the U.S. troops had to take.

So Woody Keeble, in charge of these three platoons, made three 
attempts to take that hill from the Chinese. The Chinese had three 
machine gun nests on top of the hill and soldiers in trenches defending 
that hill. Three times these platoons, with Woody leading them, went up 
the hill, and three times they were repulsed and rejected, with heavy 
casualties.

After three attempts to take that hill, Woody Keeble decided he would 
try it by himself. With grenades and a Browning Automatic Rifle he 
crawled back up the hill to the Chinese positions. Witnesses said he 
crawled through very heavy machine gun fire and through a blizzard of 
grenades. Woody Keeble scaled the hill, went around the pillboxes and 
knocked out all three machine guns by himself and then cleared out the 
trenches between them. When he returned they extracted 83 pieces of 
shrapnel from his body--83 pieces of shrapnel. But he wouldn't leave 
the battlefield until all of his men were on top of the hill and in a 
defensive position and only then would he allow himself to be 
evacuated.

Right after the engagement all of the surviving members of G Company 
signed a letter putting him in for the Medal of Honor. It got lost and 
never got from the battlefield to the Pentagon. They did it a second 
time a month later and it too never got from the battlefield to the 
Pentagon.

But in this photo, my colleagues can see the medals he did get: 
multiple Purple Hearts, wounded five times; two Bronze Stars, a Silver 
Star; the Distinguished Service Cross, the second highest medal. He was 
a well-decorated soldier. He went to Korea to help teach those kids how 
to fight and it turns out he is the one who climbed the hill and saved 
his soldiers, knocked out three machine gun nests by himself.

Many years later the question was asked: Why was he not given the 
Medal of Honor? Those with whom he served began piecing together the 
action that day, all of those who were eyewitnesses and a part of the 
action on that hill in North Korea.

A woman named Merry Helm especially took it upon herself over the 
years to try to reconstruct Woody's story. It took a lot of time to do 
so. Then it was sent to the U.S. Secretary of the Army with a request 
that he review the original request that had never been received at the 
Pentagon that Woody Keeble be awarded the Medal of Honor.

The Secretary of the Army looked into the case and decided that Woody 
Keeble had indeed earned the Medal of Honor. The Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs agreed.

But then all the people involved were informed that there is a 3-year 
statute of limitations on the request for a Medal of Honor. The 
Secretary of defense could only consider Woody's case if that statute 
of limitations was waived.

At the request of those who had worked on it, I and my colleague from 
North Dakota, Senator Conrad, and our colleagues from South Dakota, 
Senator Johnson and Senator Thune, introduced legislation on an 
appropriations bill that waived the 3-year statute so the Secretary of 
the Defense could look at this case and decide.

The Secretary of the Defense began evaluating what happened on that 
hill in North Korea on a cold day when Woody Keeble was a real hero. He 
eventually decided, having looked at all the information, that, indeed, 
this Lakota Sioux Indian who served this country in two wars, was 
wounded five times, deserved the Medal of Honor. He sent it to the 
White House with the recommendation that the President approve the 
Medal of Honor.

This coming Monday, at 2:30 in the afternoon, I will be at the White 
House witnessing a ceremony at the invitation of the President in which 
the President Bush will present a Medal of Honor posthumously to a 
really remarkable, courageous American soldier named Woodrow Wilson 
Keeble, the only Sioux Indian ever to have received the Medal of Honor, 
someone who served this country with unbelievable courage and 
distinction and valor.

After the Korean war, he came back to Wahpeton, ND, and worked at the 
Wahpeton Indian School much of his life. He suffered multiple strokes, 
suffered significant health problems, and died 26 years later.

The moment won't pass without some notice because the President is 
making a presentation on Monday. However, I wanted to say something 
here on the floor of the Senate so those who read the Record of the 
Senate will understand this was an extraordinary American.

We are hearing a lot of discussion these days about the bill on the 
floor of the Senate dealing with Iraq and about who stands up for 
soldiers, who cares about American soldiers. The fact is, every single 
person in this Chamber cares about American soldiers and wants to 
support them, understands that they get up in the morning in some parts 
of this world--in Iraq especially--and they strap on body armor before 
they go out because they know there is a chance they can be killed or 
harmed. All of us understand what soldiers are doing for this country. 
I believe the one thing that unites this Chamber is we want to do right 
by American soldiers. The story of Woody Keeble is a story that ought 
to inspire all of us about what soldiers do for our country.

I have told my colleagues previously about another soldier, another 
American Indian. His name was Edmund Young Eagle. He was from the 
Standing Rock Sioux Tribe of North Dakota. He went to war. He was in 
northern Africa, he was in Normandy, he was in Europe. He came back and 
lived with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. He never had very much. He 
had kind of a tough life.

At the end of his life, he was lying in a hospital bed at the VA 
hospital in Fargo, ND. His sister asked if I would get the medals he 
earned in the Second World War and never received. I did, and I took 
them to the VA hospital on a Sunday morning in Fargo, ND. The doctors 
and nurses crowded into his room, and Edmund Young Eagle--who at the 
time I didn't know was going to die 7 days later of lung cancer. Edmund 
Young Eagle was a sick man but very proud that morning. We cranked his 
bed up to a seated position, and then I pinned on his pajama top a row 
of medals this American Indian had earned serving his country in the 
Second World War. As sick as he was, he said quietly to me: This is one 
of the proudest days of my life--seated on his hospital bed wearing his 
pajama tops with his military medals.

There are so many whose names we will not talk about on the floor of 
the Senate today, but I do say Woody Keeble and Edmund Young Eagle are 
just two of thousands--millions of American soldiers over the years who 
have refreshed this democracy by being willing to risk their lives.

I wanted to call to the attention of the Senate Woodrow Wilson 
Keeble. I am enormously proud of him and his family and his memory, and 
I am anxious to be at the White House on Monday when he receives 
posthumously the Medal of Honor.













Strategic Petroleum Reserve
