---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8461f5c75c3bdc0a099eb9401ef10471`
`Mr. WYNN — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. WYNN. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank the gentleman for 
yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 63, a 
bipartisan resolution supporting our troops in Iraq, while opposing the 
President's troop escalation strategy.

This marks the fourth year of this war. It is time to bring our 
troops home now. We have not quelled the violence. We have not thwarted 
al Qaeda. We have not stabilized the region. We have not deterred 
terrorist radicals. In fact, because of our presence, there are more 
jihadists in Iraq than there were before.

Thus, I find it inconceivable that the President's response to this 
situation, 3 years of military failure in Iraq, is to suggest that we 
add more troops, 20,000 additional troops.

Since the start of the war in 2003, over 3,000 U.S. troops have died, 
more than 50 from my State of Maryland alone. In addition, 23,000 
American soldiers have suffered serious injury and will have post-
traumatic consequences.


The President's approach will only result in the loss of more U.S. 
lives.

Iraq is in the midst of what has become a civil war between Shia and 
Sunni. There also is internal tribal and gang violence. Our troops can 
play no constructive role in this environment, except as targets for 
all sides.

This is not a partisan Democratic issue. Let me be clear. The 
President's proposed troop escalation runs contrary to the 
recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and military experts 
such as the Joint Chiefs of Staff. According to a December Washington 
Post article, the Joint Chiefs have long opposed the increase in 
troops.

Generals Colin Powell, George Casey, John Abizaid and Barry McCaffrey 
have all expressed skepticism about the President's surge strategy. 
Even some of my Republican colleagues will oppose this surge strategy, 
and for good reason.

Troop buildups in Iraq haven't worked. U.S. troop levels increased by 
18,000 from November 2004 to January 2005 in advance of the Iraqi 
elections, yet insurgent attacks increased. In 2005, the administration 
increased troop levels by over 20,000 to secure Iraq ahead of its 
constitutional referendum. The strategy not only failed to quell the 
violence, but insurgent attacks increased by 29 percent.

Some of my Republican colleagues make an argument that if you support 
the troops, you must support the mission. They say if we don't defeat 
radical Islam in Iraq, then where will we do it? Unfortunately, both of 
these theories are flawed.

Our troops have performed admirably, sacrificing life and limb, often 
without sound strategy or adequate equipment. And, yes, the goal of 
peace and stability in the Middle East is admirable, but this mission 
is misguided. The fact is that despite previous congressional support, 
this mission was inadequately planned and our troops inadequate 
equipped. In addition, the administration has cast a blind eye at 
massive fraud, waste and abuse that has undermined the reconstruction 
efforts and cheated the American taxpayer.

We are now in the midst of a civil war that we neither understand nor 
can we resolve. I support the troops, but I cannot support this ill-
conceived mission.

As hard as it is for some, we must understand that this is not a 
World War II type conflict. This is not our great army defeating their 
great army.

We cannot defeat a radical Islamic insurgency militarily. This does 
not mean we cannot defeat a radical Islamic insurgency. It does not 
mean that if we oppose a troop escalation or begin withdrawing our 
troops that we have failed. Rather, it is a recognition of what the 
American people already know: We need a new strategy.

This administration operates under the arrogant assumption that only 
America wants peace in Iraq. In fact, other Arab nations in the region 
have an even greater desire for peace and stability. They don't want to 
see their brethren killed. They don't want to see waves of refugees 
flood their region. Our new strategy should be a diplomatic initiative 
to bring countries such as Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Iran and Syria 
to the table to engage in finding solutions.

Now, I know the war hawks will say diplomatic approaches cannot work. 
But think about it. It wasn't too long ago that this administration and 
these war hawks were saying that North Korea was an intractable enemy. 
Yet today, through diplomatic efforts, we are making appreciable 
progress. I believe this diplomatic approach can work in Iraq.

We need a dramatic change in strategy. We should begin with the 
withdrawal of U.S. troops and place more responsibility on the Iraqis 
to foster their own democracy. Most people, including General John 
Abizaid, understand that we cannot impose democracy on the Iraqis if 
they don't want it for themselves. That is why I support the End the 
War in Iraq Act, which would use the congressional power of the purse 
to bring this war to an end if the administration cannot or will not do 
so.

But in addition to beginning a phased withdrawal of U.S. troops, we 
must pursue an aggressive diplomatic initiative to involve willing 
Muslim countries in creating a ceasefire first, a peace process second, 
and the rebuilding of Iraq in the third instance. These countries have 
a vested interest in promoting peace and stability in the region.

It was said many years ago war is not the answer, and today more war 
in the form of troop escalation is the absolutely wrong answer. I urge 
adoption of the resolution.