---
---

# FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 2010 AND 2011
## `846202918fced5e94bf0d80b46c4a96e`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 10 June 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Chairman, I would like to take our time in 
opposition to this bill.

And, Mr. Chairman, some Dear Colleague letters sent out by a few 
Members earlier this week, Mr. Chairman, in order to express their 
support for this bill, tended to focus on the few attractive features 
of the bill, such as the improvements that it would make on the Merida 
Initiative, our vital effort to assist Mexico and other Central 
American countries to fight the dangerous drug cartels.

Unfortunately, supporters of this bill have remained silent or 
ignored its fundamental problems. And the fundamental problems on this 
bill are that the bill calls for exorbitant spending in the absence of 
true reform, and that the bill does not take the difficult but 
necessary step of setting priorities, either with out-of-control 
spending or with important international issues that are facing our 
country.

By our best estimate, the bill before us represents an estimated 12 
percent increase in planned expenditures above the levels of fiscal 
year 2009. It creates 20 new government entities, offices, foundations, 
programs and the like. These new programs, and these new initiatives 
that are funded in this bill constitute expenditures that go beyond 
even this 12 percent increase to accounts previously funded in fiscal 
year 2009.

The bill also represents a 35 percent increase in State Department 
main salary and operating accounts. We have to ask ourselves, where is 
the money coming from to support the additional funding?

In the coming fiscal year alone, Mr. Chairman, fiscal year 2010, we 
are expected to have to pay almost $285 billion, that's billion with a 
B, in interest costs, just interest, not payment on the debt itself. By 
fiscal year 2014, our cost for interest on the debt will likely have 
risen to about $560 billion, again, that's with a B, in that year 
alone, again, for interest payments alone, not for the debt payments 
that will have to be made.

Our deficit in the coming fiscal year, 2010, is now projected to 
total an estimated $1.3 trillion. Yet the funding levels proposed by 
this bill seem oddly detached from the reality that our families are 
facing today and that our Nation is facing.

Both in committee markup and at the Rules Committee, I offered 
amendments that would have capped increases for next year at 3.7 
percent, a 2008 annual rate of inflation. This amendment would have 
saved taxpayer dollars, more than $2.8 billion in authorized funds. 
That amendment, again, would have saved American taxpayers more than 
$2.8 billion, with a B, in authorized funds.



Unfortunately, this measured, calibrated approach was rejected twice 
in favor of the largesse in this spending bill.

In trying to justify the enormous spending increases in this bill, 
supporters paint a picture of a hollowed-out shell of a State 
Department suffering from years of neglect. Yet, according to the 
Congressional Research Service and the State Department's own data, 
funding for the State Department and related agencies doubled from 
fiscal year 2000 through 2008. This clearly shows that growing the 
bureaucracy and throwing money at the Department of State are not the 
answer.

Supporters of this bill further argue that the major funding 
increases for the hiring of new staff are necessary, even in the 
absence of reforms. I note that there was an effort last Congress by 
colleagues in the other Chamber to ascertain the levels of absenteeism 
at various U.S. Government agencies. The results for the State 
Department were impressive--in an ironic way. The Department explained 
that it did not specifically track absences without official leave. It 
was the only executive branch agency that could not provide such 
information. Instead, the State Department only tracks those incidents 
in which such absenteeism reaches such an egregious level that 
discipline is required.

As a result, we--and the management of the Department--have little 
idea if the Department's own personnel are at their posts at the times 
we would expect them to be. And although we realize the overwhelming 
majority of State


Department employees are hardworking patriots, they are the ones who 
should be upset about absenteeism in others. The bill before us today 
does not address such questions, nor does it build on earlier inquiries 
such as the ones I have cited. Instead, supporters of this bill focus 
their arguments on unfilled State Department vacancies. And these 
arguments, too, Mr. Chairman, do not bare careful scrutiny. Most of the 
so-called ''vacancies'' are the result of shifting personnel to high-
priority posts rather than cuts in funding.

Furthermore, the State Department always shows unfilled positions on 
their books because those numbers are the result of our overseas posts' 
self-identified needs rather than being a budget-driven number. It is a 
way of saying that they would like more employees and more funding. 
What agency wouldn't? I expect that all Americans would identify very 
significant unfunded needs in our own homes and our families and our 
budgets.

Moreover, at a time when we need to cut the deficit, in just one 
little-noticed instance, this bill bypasses an opportunity to transfer 
several hundred million dollars to our Treasury to help us pay down our 
national debt. In fact, an amendment offered by my friend from Indiana 
(Mr. Burton) was not made in order by the rule.

Mr. Burton's amendment would have required that just half of the 
funds of U.S.-funded enterprise funds abroad be turned over to our U.S. 
Treasury when they close down their operations. By remaining silent on 
the disposition of such funds, Mr. Chairman, this bill would instead 
allow loosely overseen so-called ''legacy institutions'' to take 
possession of all of those funds. This bill prefers to focus on 
creating new U.S.-funded foundations and offices that will add hundreds 
of millions of dollars in new costs to the taxpayers over the coming 
years.

And when it comes to policy issues, Mr. Chairman, this bill does not 
set the priorities that we believe would best serve our Nation. Not 
only does this bill provide close to $2 billion in funding for the 
United Nations--not including peacekeeping--without requiring any 
reform, but it also authorizes the payment of all claimed U.N. arrears 
or back payments. Why should American taxpayers be asked to write a 
blank check to the U.N.? Why not demand specific returns on our 
investments? Instead, efforts to leverage our contributions to secure 
concrete, systematic and comprehensive reforms through the U.N. system 
were rejected by both the Foreign Affairs Committee and in Rules.

This bill provides an inexplicable authorization to pay a higher rate 
for U.N. peacekeeping than even the U.N. is charging us. The bill's 
assessment rate could result in the U.S. paying, in 1 year alone, more 
than $100 million for U.N. peacekeeping above that which the U.N. 
requires us to pay.

The bill also fails to take any action to address endemic corruption 
at the United Nations. In fact, not only does the underlying bill and 
the manager's amendment remain silent on the U.N.'s misuse of American 
taxpayer funds for activities that undermine U.S. interests, but an 
amendment offered by the gentleman from Indiana--again, Mr. Burton--
which sought to prevent U.S. taxpayer dollars from paying for the legal 
fees of corrupt U.N. officials was rejected at Rules and will not be 
considered today because, Mr. Chairman, the U.N. has decided to pay the 
legal fees, possibly almost $900,000, of Benon Sevan, who ran the 
U.N.'s corrupt and disastrous Oil-for-Food program which was supposed 
to help innocent Iraqis but instead was exploited by Saddam's regime. 
U.S. Federal and state prosecutors have charged Sevan with bribery and 
conspiracy to commit wire fraud. But this bill before us does nothing 
to protect taxpayer dollars from bankrolling and rewarding corruption 
at the U.N.

The underlying bill also helps foster the culture of corruption at 
the United Nations by failing to leverage U.S. contributions to the 
U.N. Development Program, UNDP, until it accepts the jurisdiction of 
the U.N. Ethics Office.

The UNDP, to which the U.S. contributes $100 million or more per 
year, continues to be the poster child for mismanagement, corruption, 
and waste, from Zimbabwe to Uganda to Burma to North Korea. In fact, 
the United Nations Development Program had to pull out of North Korea 
after reports emerged that development aid was being diverted to the 
North Korean dictatorship. Now, unbelievably, UNDP is returning to 
North Korea with essentially no meaningful protections to prevent U.S. 
taxpayer dollars from again benefiting Kim Jong Il and his corrupt 
cronies. Our Treasury Department has even engaged a collection agency 
to retrieve over $7 million in U.S. taxpayer dollars mismanaged by UNDP 
in Afghanistan.

We might never know about UNDP's corruption and mismanagement without 
the help of brave whistleblowers. Unfortunately, whistleblowers have 
few protections at the U.N., and the UNDP has reportedly retaliated 
against a number of them, including the one who exposed their 
operations in North Korea.

Mr. Chairman, this bill should do more in safeguarding our 
constituents' hard-earned dollars. Nowhere are U.N. failures which 
undermine U.S. interests clearer than with respect to the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency, UNRWA. UNRWA has a strictly 
humanitarian mandate to provide aid to Palestinian refugees, but it 
continues to compromise its mandate and our U.S. taxpayer dollars. It 
does so by emitting propaganda against Israel in favor of Hamas, doing 
business with banks targeted by our government for terror financing and 
money laundering, and by refusing to vet its employees and aid 
recipients for ties to Palestinian militant groups like Hamas.

UNRWA's Commissioner-General says she doesn't even consider Hamas to 
be a foreign terrorist organization. And her predecessor admitted that 
members of Hamas were on UNRWA's payroll, saying, I don't see that as a 
crime. No one can guarantee that over hundreds of millions of dollars 
in U.S. funds sent to UNRWA will not end up in the hands of Hamas. Yet, 
this bill takes a see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil approach, 
refusing to demand accountability and transparency for our investments.


Supporters of this bill will claim that it strengthens 
nonproliferation activities at the Department of State. However, the 
pertinent section of the bill contains contradictory statements 
regarding the Department's nonproliferation and arms control 
infrastructure.

On the one hand, the bill asks the Secretary of State to develop a 
comprehensive plan to determine what the Department actually needs in 
terms of personnel, additional authorities and new appropriations in 
order to carry out its arms control and nonproliferation policies. Yet, 
before that plan has even been drafted, this bill removes the statutory 
requirement for the Assistant Secretary for Verification and Arms 
Control, authorizes $3 million for 25 new positions focused on arms 
control, and mandates other programs and activities. These provisions 
actually appear to be laying the foundation to reverse the reforms that 
were enacted by this House in 1998 under the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act.

Further, by removing the requirements for the Assistant Secretary for 
Verification and Arms Control, it is diminishing its importance, and 
targets for possible dissolution the bureau at State that was 
instrumental in the dismantlement of Libya's nuclear, chemical, and 
biological weapons program. This is also the one bureau that has 
consistently pressed for greater disclosure by the North Korean regime 
on the totality of its nuclear activities.

And on the issue of North Korea, Mr. Chairman, this bill and our 
Congress have remained largely silent on this, one of the most grave 
foreign policy crises currently confronting our Nation. North Korea's 
leader is preparing to test yet another long-range missile which could 
reach Alaska, Hawaii, and the west coast possibly as early as next 
week. Yet, an amendment I offered in Rules to address the escalating 
crisis in North Korea's nuclear brinksmanship was rejected.

This amendment would have re-listed North Korea as a state sponsor of 
terrorism, as suggested by Secretary of State Clinton this past 
weekend. It called for full implementation of sanctions, including 
those imposed by the U.N. Security Council resolutions adopted after 
previous North Korean missile and nuclear tests, but never fully 
enforced. It contains consequences as called for by the 
administration's North Korean Special Envoy


after Pyongyang's April 5 missile test. This amendment raised great 
concern about Pyongyang's defiant, continuing proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction to Iran, to Syria, and other rogue regimes. It also 
pointed to the North Korean regime's horrific record on human rights 
abuses.

Pyongyang made a provocative and reprehensible decision just a few 
days ago in a secretive kangaroo court to sentence U.S. citizen 
journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee to 12 years of hard labor in the 
North Korean gulag. This amendment demanded the immediate and 
unconditional release of our two U.S. citizens before the lifting of 
any U.S. sanctions or granting of diplomatic recognition.

Much of the language of my amendment had been accepted by the 
chairman last year and incorporated into the Security Assistance and 
Arms Export Control Reform Act of 2008. The Foreign Affairs Committee 
unanimously adopted the agreed-upon North Korea language during a 
markup held last May. Yet the amendment I offered to address this 
threat to U.S. national security interests and to our allies in the 
region was rejected yesterday by the Rules Committee.

In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, at a time when our country faces a range 
of threats in our own hemisphere, this bill does not set out a 
comprehensive approach to those threats. The bill also displays a 
willingness to put our national security interests in the hands of the 
vaguely defined ''international community.''

Mr. Chairman, because of the fundamental weaknesses and the core 
problems with this bill that have not been addressed, I will not be 
able to support this bill. I urge my colleagues to also oppose H.R. 
2410 and vote ''no'' on final passage.

With that, Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.