# TRIBUTE TO THIRD DISTRICT CONGRESSIONAL YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL
## `8473b0bbf1d188d01128579caf298e46`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, last fall I invited high 
school students living in the Third Congressional District to join the 
Congressional Youth Advisory Council. The goal of the CYAC is to foster 
civic involvement and to encourage students to unleash their passions 
for America. Each meeting, they exceed my expectations and make me 
hopeful for the future.

The students who serve on the CYAC represent the best and the 
brightest in north Texas. Students are leaders, athletes, musicians, 
volunteers, and activists. They are the voice of their generation to 
Congress. They make a difference at each meeting, and I'm proud of 
them.

For this year's community project, students interviewed a veteran and 
wrote essays. A summary of some of the submitted essays follows.

It is my hope that some day the Congressional Youth Advisory Council 
will be associated with excellence and one of our highest standards of 
civic pride for young people in north Texas. I commend the students for 
volunteering their time on the Congressional Youth Advisory Council. 
Without a doubt, every student will continue to play an important role 
in our community for decades to come, and America and north Texas will 
continue to benefit from their dedication, smarts, and service.

To the members of the 2007-2008 Congressional Youth Advisory Council. 
Thank you. I salute you; God bless you and God bless America.



 I interviewed Mr. Keith Fannon. He served in the United 


 States Air Force. His beginning rank was just a basic airman, 


 but he was able to rise all the way up being a Staff Sergeant 


 when he finished his time of service. He served in the Korean 


 War. Mr. Fannon may not have seen too much on the battlefield 


 in itself, but he performed search and rescue missions for 


 airmen who had been shot down through the Civil Air Patrol 


 (CAP), helped civilians in need in Korea, and had been 


 through six major offensives during his service time. Mr. 


 Keith Fannon has been a family friend for about four years 


 now, and I've solely gotten to know him for the person he is 


 today. To be able to learn of Mr. Fannon's past in the Air 


 Force, though, was a fascinating experience. It gave me more 


 insight to Mr. Fannon as a whole, and I enjoyed every bit of 


 it. Having the ability to learn even more about a friend, a 


 veteran, and America's history from a first-person point of 


 view all at the same time was mind-blowing. I would like to 


 thank Mr. Keith Fannon and the Congressional Youth Advisory 


 Council for giving me such a great opportunity.--Patrick 


 Foster



 For the Veteran's History project, I interviewed retired 


 Lieutenant Colonel James Megellas, the most decorated Army 


 officer of the 82nd Airborne, 504th Parachute Infantry 


 Regiment. Lt. Col. Megellas and his regiment fought through 


 Europe in World War II from January 1943 to the end of the 


 war in 1945, and were welcomed home to a victory parade in 


 New York on January 12, 1946. He led his men as a Platoon 


 Leader in many famous battles, including the Battle of the 


 Bulge, Operation Market Garden, and the battle for Anzio, and 


 he eventually participated in the American occupation of 


 Berlin. Interviewing such an influential and heroic veteran 


 truly affected my life in an undeniable and poignant way. 


 Though Lt. Col. Megellas said that he does not agree with 


 those who call him part of the ''greatest generation,'' 


 getting the chance to interview him reminded me that 


 unbelievable heroism, valor, and selflessness can still exist 


 in the face of a world where people's worth is often judged 


 by their money and power in society. Whether he agrees with 


 me or not. I believe that soldiers like Lt. Col. Megellas, 


 including the brave men and women fighting in the military 


 for America today, are the greatest of any generation in 


 American history. As Lt. Col. Megellas put it, ''We're 


 blessed in many ways, but not more so than the quality of the 


 young men and women who will step forward whenever we're been 


 in trouble. They are the best of this generation.''--Stephen 


 Hayes



 Howard Montfort, known to all his friends as Dusty, was 


 born in Carrolton, Texas and has lived in Texas all his life, 


 except for his time of service. He was originally drafted in 


 1966, but was unable to comply with his draft notice due to 


 an infection of viral encephalitis. After recovering, he was 


 given pardon and transferred from Texas A&M, where he had 


 been going to school, to NTSU. There he was drafted a second 


 time, but decided instead to visit the school's recruiter to 


 join a program which allowed him to finish school while 


 training for the Air Force. Dusty entered the Air Force in 


 1969, flying the infamous B-52. After joining the Vietnam 


 Conflict, he quickly rose from Second Lieutenant to Aircraft 


 Commander, and flew numerous Tours for a total of 141 combat 


 missions. Dusty received the Air Medal and seven Oak Leaf 


 clusters during his service. In addition, he was awarded the 


 Distinguished Flying Cross in December 1972 for ''Heroism or 


 extraordinary achievement while participating in an aerial 


 flight.''



 In March of 1974, Dusty left the service after flying for 


 five years. He is now married to Gila Montfort, his wife of 


 thirty-eight years. Together, they have a son, Steven 


 Montfort, who lives in Los Angeles and works as an actor. By 


 conducting this interview, I have heard first-hand the 


 experiences of an American veteran. These people have served 


 our country. They have died to pay for our freedom, and I had 


 the opportunity to speak to one of them. In addition, I 


 learned more about the Vietnam Conflict than I previously 


 knew, I am extremely thankful for the experience.--Weston 


 Barker



 Mr. Billie Bob Norris proudly served as a Corporal in the 


 United States Marine Corps for 19 months during the Korean 


 War. He was a member of the First Marine Air Wing, Fleet 


 Marine Force, Marine Air Group 12, Service Squadron 1. During 


 that time, he was stationed in the frigid area of Wonsan, 


 North Korea, shortly after its liberation by the South Korean 


 forces. He then joined with the K27 Yonpo Airdrome as they 


 went to Hamhung-Hungnam as part of the ''Frozen Chosin'' or 


 ''Chosin Few.'' He was also stationed in Pusan, South Korea, 


 and later worked as a radio-radar technician in Japan for the 


 duration of his service. Mr. Norris currently holds a 


 bachelor's degree in industrial art, a master's degree in 


 secondary school administration, and a specialist degree in 


 vocational education. He is also a member of the Veterans of 


 Foreign Wars (VFW) and lives in Frisco, Texas with his wife, 


 Armetha.



 Throughout the process of writing this essay I have earned 


 both a greater respect




 for this Nation's veterans and a greater understanding of one 


 war in our country's history that is, sadly, looked over by 


 many people. The United States' veterans have gone through 


 experiences that neither I nor anyone in my generation can 


 truly begin to imagine. And for that, we can never thank our 


 troops, both past and current, enough.--Ashley Newton



 Lloyd was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on July 10, 


 1923. At age 11, his family moved to Peacedale, Rhode Island. 


 Some seven or so years later Lloyd voted for his first 


 presidential candidate, Harry S. Truman, for his second term. 


 Then in the November of his nineteenth year, he enlisted in 


 the Navy. He was a payroll officer, and a soldier. When it 


 was necessary, as it was for the Japanese invasion, the 


 payroll was to be set down, and they would fight with the 


 rest of the outfit. When the war was ended, Lloyd decided to 


 stay in the army, and was assigned to Okinawa. Soon 


 thereafter, he sent for Dorothy and their fourteen month-old 


 daughter, Carol. When they arrived, it was the first time 


 Lloyd had ever seen Carol. In January of 1951, he was called 


 to active duty and was stationed at the Air Force base in 


 Miami. Although he was still a payroll officer, his outfit 


 supported the troops in Japan facing Korea. Lloyd retired 


 from military service on a Sunday in 1965 as a senior master 


 sergeant, and began work at the PANTEX Ordnance Plano the 


 very next morning in Amarillo, Texas. He retired from his job 


 in 1986. Lloyd died on February 24th, 2008, in the center of 


 a circle of family members. This project came at the perfect 


 time. I may have missed my chance to learn about him had I 


 not conducted this interview. There was an opportunity for 


 closure, and I'm beginning to see how quickly we are losing 


 the WWII generation.--Bethany Johnston



 For the Preserving History project I interviewed Sergeant 


 Quentin Higgins. Higgins served as a tank commander in World 


 War II throughout England, North Africa, and Italy and 


 earning several medals. In addition, he has written a memoir, 


 reached the age of ninety years old, and blessed the lives of 


 many people. Through this experience I have learned more 


 about the dedication of our military to preserve our liberty 


 in the United States that can often be taken for granted. I 


 was initially stunned and amazed that the man I was speaking 


 to went through intense front line combat in World War II and 


 lived to tell about it at ninety years old. While I had read 


 and heard second hand about World War II stories, the reality 


 of the events and experiences of the soldiers came alive in 


 my mind when I spoke with Mr. Higgins. I have acquired a 


 greater appreciation for our troops who sacrifice their lives 


 daily for their country and a deeper comprehension of the 


 traumas of war. Most importantly I gained a fuller 


 gratefulness as Higgins stated ''appreciate life and count 


 your blessings.''--Stephanie Tison



 I had the pleasure of interviewing Lieutenant Colonel 


 Bernard Aikens, formerly of the United States Army, on 29 


 February 2008, at his office in Plano Fast Senior High 


 School. He provided me with his personal history, from his 


 many academic achievements in high school, his introduction 


 to the military during college, and some of his more 


 memorable experiences as an officer in the United States 


 Army. I have also had the opportunity to work with 


 Lieutenant Colonel Aikens for the past four years, and I 


 have found him to be a great example for the students he 


 leads, and very helpful in my own pursuit of goals for the 


 future, as well as instrumental in the roads to success 


 for several other students, my peers, and those who have 


 gone before. His life has been and continues to be one of 


 dedicated and energized service to those around him, to 


 his community. and to his country.--David Paxman



 For my Preserving History: Veteran's Interview. I am 


 honored to have received the opportunity to interview Wesley 


 C. Browning. This remarkable individual served in the Iraq 


 War for a nine month period. He was titled as a civilian and 


 worked with the Hazardous Material Management in Baghdad, 


 Iraq. Mr. Browning conquered many challenging obstacles and 


 accomplished well respected goals. He faced the boot camp, 


 bombings, and hardships like the hero he truly represents. 


 During the time he spent in Iraq, his primary task was to 


 assist the soldiers so they could concentrate on defending 


 their country. Mr. Browning dealt with the contamination of 


 foods after battle and vermin localized around the camp. He 


 handled weapons, bomb materials, and fought adjacent to the 


 soldiers while participating in the war. Mr. Browning has 


 gained a wide breadth of experience from joining the Iraq 


 War. He not only has made lifelong friendships, but has 


 learned about the various cultures and traditions in other 


 parts of the world.



 I have the utmost respect for anyone that risks their life 


 to defend their country. Conversing with Mr. Browning has 


 allowed me to gain an innovative view of the world and our 


 society. Hearing him discuss passionately his values and 


 morals was very impressive and refreshing. I have learned 


 from this war hero that the materialistic side of life is 


 submissive to the people and relationships present and 


 nothing is worth being taken for granted.--Ally Crutcher



 Non-commissioned Officer Josh Bomar joined the United 


 States Marine Corps to find discipline and focus. Bomar 


 served two terms of seven months each in Iraq. The Marines 


 protected, patrolled, and regulated the areas. Bomar's 


 assignments were gunner, who lies on top of the humvee and 


 shoots a machine gun, and vehicle commander, who is in charge 


 of an entire humvee. Bomar's family was very encouraging, 


 both extending and immediate family supported his decision to 


 join the service. Bomar is now attending the University of 


 Texas at Dallas where he is studying criminology. Bomar's 


 military experiences has made him more confident. Becoming a 


 Marine has given Bomar the tools to do better in his life. He 


 now has the discipline to accomplish everything he wants to 


 in the future. Bomar feels fortunate to have been part of the 


 United States Marine Corps and is thankful for all the 


 opportunities he has been given.



 By interviewing Josh Bomar, I have gained a better 


 understanding of how joining the service can change your 


 life. This opportunity allowed me to learn about the daily 


 life of soldiers and the realities of combat during the war. 


 I admire the courageous men and women who sacrifice their 


 lives to protect our country.--Emily Buss



 Command Sergeant Major Robert F. Donahue epitomizes 


 everything it means to be a proud American. Even after two 


 tours of duty in Vietnam and another in Iraq, he loves to 


 share his experiences and wisdom gained from his time in the 


 military. People are always trying to find someone who can be 


 a great role model for today's young people, CSM Donahue is 


 exactly that. Born into a military family with a career 


 soldier for a father and a World War II nurse for a mother. 


 CSM Donohue was born in North Carolina. He moved many times 


 during his early life and spent most of his high school life 


 in Lawton, Oklahoma. Growing up in Lawton. CSM Donahue didn't 


 know a life other than the one he was living, of 


 military orientation, very regimented and discipline 


 oriented. Prior to his last year of high school, the Tet 


 Offensive happened in Vietnam. Once he graduated from high 


 school, he enlisted in the Marine Corps, heading off to 


 Vietnam for ten months on separate tours of duty. After 


 Vietnam, he stayed in the army reserve up until his time 


 in Iraq. I gained many things from my experience 


 interviewing CSM Donahue.--Michael Buss



 I chose to do my biography on Matthew Edward Rice, my dad. 


 In August 1981, at nineteen years old he went to Basic 


 Training at Ft. Gordon. He then went to AIT where he learned 


 to be a Telephone Switchboard Technician, and then he was 


 stationed in Darmstadt, Germany in May of 1982 with the C Co. 


 44th Signal Battalion. He then received orders to go back to 


 Ft. Gordon for new advanced digital telephone switch 


 training. He was then assigned to Ft. Bragg with orders to 


 the 327th Signal BN. However, he was transferred to B Co. 


 50th Signal BN, for the liberation of Grenada. He was 


 reassigned to A Co. 327th Signal BN. My dad went to Germany 


 in 1984 and attended Primary Leadership Development Course. 


 He then was transferred to the 17th Signal BN. He then 


 returned to Ft. Gordon as an Instructor. His last assignment 


 was with Headquarters Co. 304th Signal BN South Korea from 


 May of 1991 to June 1992. I have learned a lot about 


 dedication, hard work and responsibility from my father and 


 his stories of his time in the Army. My dad has instilled in 


 me the values that the military has instilled in him.--


 Allyson Rice



 Larry Lucido joined the Marine Corps. He began as a private 


 in the Marine Corps and ended his service as a Sergeant. 


 During his nine month tour of duty in the Korean War he saw a 


 lot of action and fought in several battles including the 


 battle of Chosin Reservoir where the Chinese entered the war 


 and surrounded the Marines until the Marines managed to break 


 out. He was awarded two Purple Hearts during his tour. The 


 first Purple Heart was awarded to him after he was shot in 


 the back. His second Purple Heart was awarded to him after he 


 went to go help one of his injured friends and he stepped on 


 a land mine that took off his leg. He also captured a North 


 Korean soldier than gave them information about the other 


 North Korean Troops in the area.



 From this experience I have gained a greater respect for 


 those who serve in our country's armed forces and fight to 


 keep this and other countries free. His service in the Marine 


 Corps is a great inspiration. How he was shot in the back and 


 lost his leg in the service of our country shows how high the 


 price of freedom can be and how we must respect those who 


 fight to protect it.--Brian Bruck



 My name is James Garrett Follette and I interviewed Captain 


 Ralph Peter ''Pete'' Langenfield on January 26, 2008. Pete 


 enlisted with the Air Force in the summer of 1942 and saw 


 active duty in January 1943 as a 2nd lieutenant. Pete was 


 assigned to the 785th Bombardment Squadron of the 466th 


 Bombardment Group of the 8th Air Division stationed in 


 England as a bombardier for a B-24 Liberator. His last day of 


 service was on December 19, 1945. For two years, Pete also 


 flew B-29 Bombers during the Korean War. He held the rank of 


 Captain when he was discharged on April 14, 1951.



 On August 24, 2006 he received the Distinguished Flying 


 Cross with valor for his heroism on January 2, 1945. On his 


 31st combat mission over Remagen, Germany, one of the live 


 2,000-pound bombs on his B-24 Liberator did not release. Pete 


 removed his parachute and oxygen mask so he could move to the 


 open bomb bay and manually release the weapon. Interviewing 


 Captain Langenfeld has been an incredible experience. To 


 listen to the thrill and patriotism in his voice is




 contagious. It makes one realize how important history is and 


 we do not want to lose these experiences.--Garrett Tollelle



 The tributes, memories, and lives of those who serve or 


 have served in the armed forces must be exalted and above all 


 else never forgotten. Thanks to this interview of United 


 States Marine Corps Major John Lauder, I have first hand 


 insight on the life of a true patriot. Major John Lauder went 


 from only a Cadet, to Captain, 1st Lieutenant, 2nd Lieutenant 


 all the way to where he is now at Major. As I listened to the 


 memories and experience of Major Lauder, it occurred to me 


 the massive amount of courage, dedication, and perseverance 


 it takes to serve. As a marine he has served four tours of 


 duty thus far and is still an honorable member of the 


 Marines. It is to him I owe my understanding of the true 


 hardships that one must take on as a Marine. I hold people 


 like Major John Lauder responsible for my feelings of 


 security and pride in such a beloved country.



 The memories of our men in service and veterans are 


 important ones. They are memories that should not be lost. 


 These people have put their lives on the line and triumphed 


 over all odds. I proudly say that Major John Lauder is one of 


 these people. While serving, Major Lauder has truly excelled 


 as a Marine. earning awards such as Iraqi and Afghan campaign 


 medals as well as being decorated for valor. Not only those, 


 but he has also received the Global War on Terrorism Service 


 medal, expeditionary medals, along with a combat action 


 ribbon. Major John Lauder is a truly exemplary person and I 


 give thanks to God for people like him.--Amanda Dees



 Colonel James E. Gilliland grew up in a changing time 


 throughout the tides of war and peace. He entered the Air 


 Force as the Korean War had ended, but answered the call to 


 defend his country during the Vietnam War, flying 100 vital 


 reconnaissance missions over North and South Vietnam war 


 zones in a very short amount of time. The dangerous missions 


 which he completed helped to contribute to the key strategies 


 during the war, saving countless American lives. Throughout 


 his tour in enemy skies, he was a highly decorated RF-4C 


 pilot in the United States Air Force, which includes the 


 Silver Star, Distinguished Flying Cross, Legion of Merit, 


 Bronze Star and Air Medals. Even after his combat tours in 


 Vietnam, Colonel Gilliland continued to hold senior command 


 and staff positions in Saigon, Hawaii, Colorado, Texas, 


 England, and eventually Belgium. Not only was this man a hero 


 throughout his career with the Air Force, but he is also my 


 grandfather, a man I hold in the highest regard. Hearing his 


 story, which even now is hard for him to tell, has helped me 


 to better understand just how much he has sacrificed for his 


 country.--Trevor Ede



 What Corbett Reagan accomplished was a 6 month tour (1990-


 1991) of duty in Iraq during Operation Desert Storm where he 


 specialized in anti-tank gunning. He was the recipient of the 


 Meritorious Unit Award, the Valorous Unit Citation, and the 


 Kuwait Liberation Medal. What I gained from this interview 


 experience was how committed Corporal Reagan was to his 


 country. It was part of his heart and soul to be a Marine and 


 serve our nation, particularly growing up in a military 


 family. I also was struck by the influence the Marines and 


 his overall service in Kuwait/Iraq during Operation Desert 


 Storm had in molding him into a man of character. Being in 


 the Marines shaped his life in many ways, particularly in 


 helping him understand the issues of life and death, 


 obtaining his education, the importance of family and 


 friends, as well as gaining an appreciation for what it means 


 to live in this great nation of ours.--Lauren Hill



 Lieutenant Colonel Richard Castle was born in 1946 in 


 Rochester, New York. His decision to join the Army was 


 voluntary but also influenced by his family. His grandfather 


 had served in the Navy during WWI while his own father had 


 been a captain in the air corp. Even his brother had served 


 in the United States Army during the Vietnam War. Richard 


 served in the Vietnam War as a logistics officer. During 


 his entire military career. Richard reached the position 


 of 5th corp commander under a three star general. At the 


 end of his military career, he reached the position of 


 lieutenant colonel for his incredible service. The things 


 I learned from Lieutenant Colonel Richard Castle were so 


 astounding and intriguing. He seemed like a man who 


 genuinely cared about his country and had loved serving in 


 the Army. It made me gain a much greater appreciation for 


 the men and women in the service right now. Talking on the 


 phone with him. I realized how much of an ordinary person 


 Mr. Castle was. Yet for him to have done so much for the 


 Army is absolutely amazing. His story truly shows that 


 anyone can serve the country and be an inspiration.--Lisa 


 Hu



 Colonel Vernon David Gores was born on December 27, 1929 in 


 Bisbee, North Dakota. He grew up exposed to the agricultural 


 environment of North Dakota, in addition to the small city 


 life of Fargo, North Dakota. Vern Gores graduated from North 


 Dakota State University with a degree in civil engineering in 


 1951. While there he attended ROTC, then entered the United 


 States Air Force as a second lieutenant and attended flight 


 school. Vern served in several capacities for the Air Force. 


 For most of his Air Force career, Vern served as a pilot for 


 transport (C-46) and reconnaissance aircraft (EC-121). He 


 also advised an ROTC unit. He held positions of operations 


 officer, commander advisor to the National Guard, and 


 inspector general. Vern lived across the nation and 


 internationally during his career. After North Dakota he 


 lived in Alabama, Oklahoma, Illinois, Vermont, California, 


 Massachusetts, Florida, and Ohio. He also served in several 


 foreign countries: Japan, South Korea, Libya, Vietnam, and 


 Thailand. Vern served in the Korean conflict and Vietnam. He 


 remembers the Cuban Missile Crisis and the ''ongoing'' Cold 


 War.



 Vern retired from the Air Force at the rank of Full Colonel 


 in 1979 at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio after 28 years of 


 service. He has been awarded the Legion of Merit, Air Medal, 


 and Bronze Star recognitions. Today Colonel Gore lives in the 


 Villages of Lady Lake, Florida with his wife Colleen. They 


 have been married for more than fifty years. They have one 


 son, two daughters, and five grandchildren. His family is 


 very proud of his accomplishments. He served with untiring 


 effort, superior intellect, and uncompromising values of 


 honesty, integrity, and loyalty. The nation and our family 


 are fortunate to be associated with him.--Garrett McDaniel
