---
---

# HEALTH CARE
## `8477dfe52ebf229d53fbfcf044b3b6c2`
`Mr. BUYER — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, the President and the Democrat leaders here 
in Congress are not listening to the American people. Today, our 
Nation's unemployment rate is 10.2 percent, the highest level in 26 
years. This is an astounding level of unemployment. It tells only part 
of the story of the struggles Americans are experiencing and Washington 
is ignoring.

A deeper look at the unemployment numbers reveals the true costs of 
the Obama-Pelosi economic policies. The actual unemployment rate in 
America is 17.5 percent. When the currently unemployed, those who are 
unable to find work and those who have given up looking for jobs are 
included, it is 17.5 percent unemployment.

We must focus on the economy first. We should start by cutting 
government spending to shore up the U.S. dollar. We should encourage 
job creation in the private sector and increase private investment. We 
must rely on the proven methods to get our economy back on track such 
as an immediate tax relief, decreasing the capital gains tax rates, and 
reducing the tax burdens on small business.

We are living in an economy in despair as we face a two-front war. 
The President needs to address the economy first; and, as Commander in 
Chief, he needs to make a decision on Afghanistan.

Mr. President, you cannot vote ''present'' on Afghanistan. You need 
to make a decision.

Instead, he and the Democrat leadership are jamming legislation 
through Congress with massive spending increases, bailouts, greater 
government control of businesses, and job-destroying taxes and 
regulations, all while leaving our troops in limbo in Afghanistan.

Washington has it all wrong. Unfortunately, the President, Speaker 
Pelosi, and Senate Leader Reid are proceeding with a 2,032-page bill 
that promotes the government takeover of health care; and most 
Republicans have been shut out of the process.

With little room for engagement, though, I have been successful to 
help improve a bill that I do not like. I have done this for a reason. 
It is because of our veterans. I have been able to provide important 
protections for our veterans and servicemembers who would have been 
significantly impacted by this health bill had the Democrats had their 
way at the beginning. I have been able to ensure that the veterans 
enrolled in VA health care cannot be hit with a 2.5 percent tax. Also, 
I sought to ensure that the VA is reimbursed by the government-run 
health plan for nonservice-connected care it provides to the veterans. 
I appreciate them including these amendments.

After succeeding with an amendment to ensure veterans and 
servicemembers have the ability to obtain additional health care in the 
health insurance exchange created by H.R. 3962, my amendment was 
altered; and, under H.R. 3962, veterans' and servicemembers' choice of 
health insurance will be left to the administration to determine.

Again today I tried to fix this with an amendment, but it was denied 
in the Rules Committee. A number of veterans and military groups, 
including the VFW, share these concerns and support the amendment that 
I submitted to the Rules Committee today. I will include for the Record 
the letters from the AMVETS, Blinded Veterans Association and the 
Retired Enlisted Association.



Our veterans and military organizations in support of the Buyer-
McKeon amendments are the VFW, the Air Force Sergeants Association, 
MOAA, the Association of the United States Army, National Military 
Family Association, and the Enlisted Army National Guard, U.S.

Also, there are Members who are cosponsoring these amendments: Jerry 
Moran of Kansas, Henry Brown of South Carolina, Jeff Miller of Florida, 
Brian Bilbray of California, Doug Lamborn of Colorado, Gus Bilirakis of 
Florida, Dr. Phil Roe of Tennessee, Vern Buchanan of Florida, and 
Rodney Alexander of Louisiana.

Our veterans have earned the VA health care as well as the liberty to 
choose whatever other coverage they prefer. I find it outrageous that 
the government would attempt to dictate where and how these veterans 
and servicemembers would obtain health care.

Additionally, under H.R. 3962, the authorities of the VA and DOD 
Secretaries are jeopardized, and the health care systems that they 
oversee could be affected by the new health care czar created in all 
but one section of this bill. Again, the Democrat leadership has not 
addressed this issue that I sought to address, and these amendments 
have been denied today.

As the Blinded Veterans Association stated in their letter to me: 
''It is critical to ensure that the authority of the Secretary of the 
VA and the Secretary of DOD could never be challenged or obstructed by 
any provision in the bill or by a Secretary or a commissioner from 
another sector of government.''

Finally, it is important to note that under H.R. 3962, veterans and 
servicemembers enrolled in VA health care and TRICARE will not be 
eligible for the affordable tax credits . . . available to other 
Americans living under 400% of the federal poverty level. I submitted 
an amendment, which would have allowed individuals enrolled in VA 
health care and TRICARE to receive these tax credits, and this 
amendment was denied consideration by the Democrats.


I oppose H.R. 3962. This legislation restricts veterans' health care 
options and imposes a sweeping government takeover of our nation's 
health care system, and I support the Republican plan to improve our 
nation's health care and lower premiums, thereby increasing access to 
quality healthcare.

According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the 
Republican health care reform legislation would reduce health insurance 
premiums by up to 10 percent for employees working in small businesses, 
up to 8 percent for individuals who do not have access to employer-
provided health insurance and up to 3 percent for employees who get 
coverage through large businesses.

All told, under the Republican plan, health insurance premiums would 
cost Americans nearly $5,000 less than the least costly option under 
Speaker Pelosi's plan. All of this without a government takeover of our 
health care system and /1/6/ of our nation's economy.

The Democrats' plan is not about insuring the uninsured or bringing 
down health care costs. In fact, under Democrat proposals in Congress, 
up to 114 million Americans could lose the private health insurance 
that they enjoy today, and CBO found that the House Democrats' bill 
will make health insurance more expensive than it is now, raising 
insurance premiums about 30 percent more than currently projected by 
the year 2016.

We must focus on the uninsured and the uninsurable. The Republican 
health care plan does just that by creating new health insurance 
options for small businesses--the economic engines of our economy--
enacting real medical liability reform so that physicians can continue 
to focus on their patients and not junk lawsuits, guaranteeing 
affordable health insurance for individuals with preexisting 
conditions, protection seniors' Medicare benefits, and lowering health 
care premiums for all Americans.

Our nation's health care system can be improved without increasing 
taxes and jeopardizing the jobs we still have in America. The President 
and Democrat leadership in Congress must reorganize their priorities. 
They must stop focusing on job-killing policies. It is time to start 
listening to Americans and fix our economy first.
