# NOMINATION OF ELENA KAGAN TO BE ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME
## `847aed1d186a373d0d4add2840766e3a`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 4 August 2010`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Idaho for his 
comments. He is one of the most capable lawyers in the Senate. He is a 
practicing lawyer, clerked on the court of appeals, and is scholarly 
and careful in what he says. I believe he has raised some very 
troubling points about this nomination that should be considered.

I say to Senator Crapo, I notice today that a single sitting Federal 
judge in California has just wiped out proposition 8 that was passed by 
a majority of the people in California. I guess there were millions 
voting on that, which simply said a marriage should be defined as being 
between a man and a woman.

This judge struck down proposition 8 and, obviously, at some point, 
this will get to the Supreme Court of the United States, as the Senator 
well knows. It will go first to the Ninth Circuit, on which the Senator 
clerked, and then it will go to the Supreme Court probably. We will 
have the nominee who is before us today who has already demonstrated at 
Harvard that her views about don't ask, don't tell and similar social 
and marriage issues involve such strong feelings on her part that she 
has not been able to follow the law. I am worried about that. I think 
the American people are worried about that, and I think they have a 
right to be.

Let me talk a little bit about today's decision by a Federal judge in 
California that was replete, in my view, with results-oriented liberal 
judicial activism. I think that is what it is, as the court explained 
in substituting its judgment, the judge's judgment and opinion, for the 
judgment of the people of California expressed in a full statewide 
referendum. Now this is a powerful thing.

Was there some clear statement in the Constitution or law that would 
invalidate the people's expression of what a marriage should be in the 
State of California? I submit not. This is what the judge said.




 [W]hat remains of proponents' case is an inference, amply 


 supported by evidence in the record, that Proposition [8] was 


 premised on the belief that same-sex couples simply are not 


 as good as opposite-sex couples. Whether that belief is based 


 on moral disapproval of homosexuality, animus towards gays 


 and lesbians or simply a belief that a relationship between a 


 man and a woman is inherently better than a relationship 


 between two men or two women, this belief is not a proper 


 basis on which to legislate.


So the judge just declared that laws that are on the books in 
virtually every State in America--and certainly by referendum in 
California--are improper. States cannot legislate in this area. It is 
not ''a proper basis'' on which to legislate.

That is what activism is. It is a judge replacing the people's views 
with his views.

President Obama has made similar statements. He said that judges 
should decide cases based on ''one's deepest values, one's core 
concerns, one's broader perspectives on how the world works, and the 
depth and breadth of one's empathy.''

This was in a floor speech in the Senate delivered from right over 
there from his desk in which he opposed Chief Justice John Robert's 
confirmation to the Supreme Court--one of the finest nominees ever to 
be brought before this body.

This is the kind of rationale, the kind of empowerment that many 
judges feel. Well, they can just use their broader perspective on how 
the world works or the depth and breadth of their empathy or their 
deepest values or core concerns. Whose core concerns? The judge's core 
concerns. What does this have to do with law, I ask?

Indeed, I would suggest that this whole litany of matters raised by 
President Obama is not law. These are invitations for judges to allow 
their bias to influence how they decide cases, an encouragement for 
judges to use their power of defining the words of our laws and 
Constitution to promote their agenda. This is an unacceptable view. It 
is contrary to the great heritage of law this country is based on and 
should not be tolerated by the judiciary.

When Justice Stevens announced his retirement, whom Ms. Kagan would 
replace--he served 38 years; he served until age 88--if Ms. Kagan were 
to serve till that age, she would serve 38 years on the Supreme Court 
without ever having to answer once to the American people. She has 
never tried a case. We have no judicial history. She has never really 
practiced law in any serious way. She has been a political lawyer most 
of her life. She has been an advocate for a lot of leftwing views and 
that is all right.

You can have a view that the military's don't ask, don't tell 
policy--law passed by Congress; it is a law not a policy--you can 
oppose that. That is fine. That should not disqualify you from serving 
on the bench. You can be against the death penalty and serve as a good 
judge if you understand that if the law requires the death penalty, you 
should have to apply it. You cannot obstruct the law because you do not 
agree with it. This is basic to the understanding of the American 
jurisprudence system.

When Justice Stevens announced his retirement, President Obama 
rephrased his empathy standard that took a lot of criticism and, 
indeed, was renounced by Justice Sotomayor in her confirmation hearings 
last year. He said he wanted a nominee with a ''keen understanding of 
how the law affects the daily lives of the American people.''

Well, I think that is what Congress is supposed to do. We are 
supposed to be monitoring how the laws affect the daily lives of the 
American people. If we do not think, as a matter of policy, it is doing 
it correctly, we should fix the law, change it, eliminate it, and do 
whatever is appropriate. That is not the judge's responsibility. The 
judge's responsibility is to enforce the law, to follow the law, or 
else he is a lawmaker instead of a judge.

When the President announced Elena Kagan's nomination, he said: ''She 
has often referred to . . . Justice Thurgood Marshall, for whom she 
clerked, as her hero'' and ''credits him with reminding her that, as 
she put it, 'behind law there are stories--stories of people's lives.' 
''

Well, there are stories, and a judge should certainly be very aware 
of the facts in a case. Judges should not deny relevant evidence. But 
in the end, the judge must find the true facts, and then apply that 
truly to the law as it is whether they like it or not. Activism arises 
when a judge allows their personal values, even deepest values, core 
concerns, broader perspectives on how the world works, and the depth 
and breadth of their empathy to influence decisions. Isn't that bias? 
Who knows what these judges believe--they have a lifetime appointment 
and they get to impose their core concerns on us? No. This is a serious 
matter.


I think the American people understand it because when you empower a 
judge to do these kinds of things, you have given him control over you. 
You have given him the power to redefine marriage when the people of 
the State don't want to. And you have no recourse. They have a lifetime 
appointment. Some people say nine judges can do that. Only five, 
really. It only takes five. They meet and have tea and they go to the 
great salons of Europe, and they get these ideas about how to make 
America a better place, and they want to come back and get itching to 
write it into some opinion somewhere.

I would say that no drafter of the Constitution or any of the 
provisions in it at any point that those amendments were adopted would 
ever have imagined a Federal judge in California would declare that the 
people of California's decision to define marriage as it has been since 
the founding of the Republic as between a man and a woman is 
unconstitutional. Make no mistake. When a judge says something is 
unconstitutional, this is not a little bitty matter. The American 
people have no recourse, except to pass a constitutional amendment. It 
takes two-thirds of both the House and the Senate and three-fourths of 
the State. They make it so because they say it is so. There is nothing 
in the Constitution that defines marriage. If it is defined--the most 
logical argument is that when it was written, if they had wanted to 
change the definition of marriage, they would have put it in there, 
because every State in America at the time the Constitution was drafted 
and every amendment to it defined marriage as between a man and a 
woman.

That is what we get. Right now we have had battles over those kinds 
of


issues. They are the cause celebre of the day, but they become further 
issues in the future. Do we think maybe in the future it comes down to 
whether a judge can require the State to raise taxes? Will it require a 
State to provide insurance to everyone or the Federal Government to do 
so because the Constitution somewhere said that everybody should have 
equal protection of the law? Does that mean everybody should have 
health insurance?

We have one nominee President Obama has submitted, Mr. Liu, who says 
everybody in America is entitled to constitutional welfare rights. 
Presumably, if you file a lawsuit in front of him, he would order the 
State to provide welfare to everybody, whether we can afford it or 
whether the legislature decided that is the right thing. This is what 
activism is. It is a serious matter.

I wanted to speak of a few additional points for discussion that 
relate to matters that have been raised in the last day or so about 
this nomination. I am trying to be correct in what I say. I want to be 
correct and fair. This nominee deserves fair treatment and accuracy, 
and we should try to achieve that in the Senate. If I have said 
anything before or say anything now that is in error, I hope my 
colleagues will call that to my attention and I will be pleased to 
admit that I made an error, if I have, and correct it. Likewise, I am 
beginning to wonder--I have said this before--since nobody has 
corrected any significant matter I have stated, they must be agreeing 
to it.

One of our Senators defended Ms. Kagan by insisting that any 
arguments she made as Solicitor General were made on behalf of her 
client, the United States, and should not be held against her. They 
suggest that her actions as Solicitor General should, therefore, be 
immune from criticism. In other words, she didn't necessarily do what 
she thought ought to be done, but she had a duty to defend the law.

It misses the point about the Witt case, the important case I talked 
about in which I criticized her decisions as Solicitor General. The 
problem with Ms. Kagan's actions in the Witt case is she did not make 
all appropriate arguments in defense of her client, the United States. 
She declined to effectively represent her client, the United States. I 
went into some length about that today. We are not saying that she must 
agree with every argument she made as Solicitor General in terms of 
policy. Solicitors General are required by their duty to defend the 
laws Congress passes. They don't have to agree with the law, but they 
have a duty to defend it if it is challenged as being unconstitutional 
or in some other fashion improper.

What is most important about this is that in the Witt case, it dealt 
with the military's don't ask, don't tell policy. People can disagree 
on that, as I indicated, but it was the law passed by Congress and 
signed by President Clinton. She spent 5 years in the Clinton White 
House. She never complained to him about the law, to my knowledge. She 
didn't protest or quit working for him. She goes to Harvard, however, 
and bars the military from being able to enter the Career Services 
Office and recruit students because she didn't like the law Congress 
passed and her former boss signed. She punished the military officers 
who were there on campus to recruit Harvard students to be JAG officers 
in the military. Maybe those officers just got back from Iraq and 
Afghanistan--we were in two wars at the time--yet they were treated as 
second-class citizens, not allowed to enter the career services office.

Oh, they could call the little veterans group on campus and they 
could ask them and they could help them. One officer wrote in a memo 
that was produced by the Defense Department: We were relegated to 
wandering the halls hoping somebody would stop and speak to us. They 
weren't able to recruit properly on the Harvard campus. Her suggestion 
that this was nothing she was doing and unimportant is not accurate. It 
was a misrepresentation of the grave circumstances that occurred at 
Harvard when she was dean. She led this effort. She personally led the 
effort to reverse Harvard's policy and deny the military the right to 
enter the Career Services Office. They said, Well, it is OK, they can 
call the veterans groups. They were offended by it. They sent out an e-
mail and said we are not able to arrange for these kinds of meetings. 
We are law students here who happen to be veterans. We can't do what 
the career services can do to provide assistance to the military. It 
was plainly against the Solomon amendment which was in effect at all 
times when she reversed Harvard's policy and began to bar the military 
from coming on campus.

When she came up for confirmation last year to be Solicitor General 
of the United States and there were cases filed around the country 
challenging the constitutionality of don't ask, don't tell, it was 
clear it might fall to her duty to defend that law, and she was asked 
in committee about it. She was asked: Will you defend the law? She 
said: Absolutely, she would. She committed to it. Generally she would 
commit to defending all laws of the United States and, specifically, in 
answer to a written question, she committed to defending don't ask, 
don't tell.

What I wish to say is that my colleagues were in error in their 
statements about this because it wasn't that she made arguments to the 
Court that she didn't believe in and that somehow we are unfairly 
criticizing her for doing that. What I am saying is there were 
arguments she did not make that she was duty bound to make to defend 
the law and actions that she was duty bound to take.

It has been said by one of our colleagues that it is ''Lawyer 101'' 
that an attorney will take positions on behalf of the client even when 
the lawyer disagrees with it. Well, that is exactly right. An attorney 
does have an obligation to vigorously defend his or her client, but Ms. 
Kagan refused to do that. Her client was the United States of America. 
When the Solicitor General of the United States stands before the U.S. 
Supreme Court or any lawyer--as I had the privilege to do for 15 
years--in the Department of Justice stands up in a Federal court, do 
you know what they say? The first thing they are asked is, Counsel, the 
judge will say, is the government ready? And the lawyer says, The 
United States is ready, Your Honor. The United States is ready. That is 
who the lawyer's client is: the United States of America. It is not her 
personal view of don't ask, don't tell. It is not President Obama's 
interests or idea of what should be don't ask, don't tell; not his 
views. It is the United States of America. And what is the position she 
was defending? The lawfully passed statutes of this Congress signed by 
her former boss, President Clinton, passing the law don't ask, don't 
tell that was being challenged.


I am of the view that in failing to properly defend that case, as I 
said earlier, she violated a direct, specific commitment she made to 
the Congress and violated her duty even if she hadn't made that 
commitment as Solicitor General to defend the laws of the United 
States.

One of my colleagues made reference to Justice Souter, saying:




 Justice Souter pointed out in a recent commencement address 


 recently [that] different aspects of the Constitution point 


 in different directions toward different results, and they 


 need to be reconciled.


Judges do have to do that.




 Acknowledging these inherent tensions is not only Main 


 Street, it is as old as the Constitution.


Well, there is some truth to that, but Justice Souter's speech and 
others in his philosophical mold are very troubling. In fact, Justice 
Souter's speech intellectually followed on to Justice Brennan's 1985 
Georgetown speech which is clearly the playbook for judicial activism. 
In it, Justice Brennan, former Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, 
stated:




 For the genius of the Constitution rests not in any static 


 meaning it might have had in a world now dead and gone, but 


 in the adaptability of its great principles to cope with 


 current problems and current needs. What the constitutional 


 fundamentals meant to the wisdom of other times cannot be 


 their measure to the vision of our time.


So if the Constitution's drafters decided that every American from 
time immemorial, unless the Constitution was specifically amended, had 
a right to keep and bear arms, Justice Brennan would say, Well, we can 
look at that. We need to see what the vision for our time is. Maybe we 
need to consult the Europeans as they did in this recent case, the 
dissenters in a 5-to-4 vote that narrowly upheld the right to keep and 
bear arms.



Allowing judges to determine the vision of our time is a recipe for 
legislating by unelected judges. What is the vision of our time is 
decidedly in the eye of the beholder. It is the job of the elected 
branches of government to make these calls in our constitutional 
system, not the unelected judiciary. The job of the judiciary is to 
interpret the law, not make the law. That is so basic. Don't we all 
know that?

As Professor John Baker of LSU put it:




 The choice is between two distinct modes of decision-


 making.



 Legislators make laws; they do not write opinions. 


 Legislators can legitimately make laws to govern future 


 conduct only. . . . Legitimate judging, on the other hand, 


 concerns the existing law. Interpretation of the existing 


 law, contrary to lawmaking, focuses on the past. Legitimate 


 interpretation of existing law explains the result in a well-


 reasoned opinion.


I think that was nicely said. Judges are not empowered to amend laws, 
to promote their vision. They are not empowered to alter the meaning of 
the words of laws or the Constitution to promote their core values.

What is Ms. Kagan's view about that? She wrote a law review article 
entitled ''Confirmation Messes, Old and New.'' It is kind of 
interesting. She has said nominees should be far more forthcoming when 
they testify. Most people think she failed to meet the standard in her 
own law review article. She also quoted Stephen Carter's book, with 
approval, saying:




 In every exercise of interpretive judgment, there comes a 


 crucial moment when the [judge's] own experience and values 


 become the most important data.


The judge's own experience and values become the most important data? 
That is not law. I don't know what that is, but it is not law.

In a 2004 interview in Metropolitan Corporate Counsel, she said:




 The attitudes and views that a person brings to the bench 


 make a difference in how they reach those decisions.


Is that not biased? Is that not an affirmation that a judge can bring 
to the bench their attitudes and views, instead of being a neutral 
umpire, putting on that black robe to symbolize impartiality? I think 
it is. This is a philosophy of law that is afoot in many of our law 
schools. There is no doubt about it. It is out there. People advocate 
it. She wrote about and advocated it. Many judges are adhering to this, 
and it is wrong. They are not empowered to do these kinds of things.

In one interview in a magazine, in 2004, she said:




 There should be a range of opinions on the [Supreme] Court; 


 it should not just be about lawyerly qualifications.


The opinions we need on the Court are that a judge should identify 
the law and then follow it. That is what the view should be.

Mr. President, people are still asserting things about the Harvard 
issue that I don't think are quite accurate. I do not believe she 
handled the Harvard military question in any way that is defensible. I 
have looked at it very carefully. I have laid it out in some detail. 
And now I wish to respond to some of the statements that have been 
made.

One their efforts has been to point out and to assert that Elena 
Kagan treated veterans at Harvard Law School with great respect, 
hosting them for private dinners in her home, publicly recognizing them 
and thanking them for their service to our country. She has been 
praised by several law school veterans who have said Ms. Kagan is not 
antimilitary. Those things have some truth to them, and Senator Leahy 
has introduced some letters.

But, for the most part, Dean Kagan's outreach to Harvard Law veterans 
began after all this brouhaha and the resistance to military recruiting 
occurred on campus and things got tense.

It was not such a pleasant time. The military veterans were not 
comfortable. She talked about other students being uncomfortable with 
the military on campus. She said that herself. So the annual veterans 
dinner I referred to began in 2006, after the university president, 
Larry Summers, had instructed the law school to restore equal access to 
military recruiters and after the Supreme Court had rejected her 
argument that the Solomon Amendment, which Congress passed to make sure 
these law schools either admitted the military or ceased getting 
Federal money--her argument that the Solomon amendment did not require 
Harvard to give the military access to the career services office was 
rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court 8 to 0.

According to the military veterans who attended Harvard Law School 
during this period, 2004 to 2006, the dinners were actually initiated 
at the suggestion of the school--the university's dean of students, 
Ellen Cosgrove, to whom the military veterans had expressed their 
concerns about the hostile campus environment toward the military. In 
other words, they had gone to Dean Cosgrove and complained about the 
hostile environment on campus toward the military, and she started some 
of these dinners. It was only later that Dean Kagan--who was speaking 
at one time to a protest rally while the military recruiter was in the 
next building trying to recruit students--she was out there speaking to 
a protest rally about the military being on campus, saying how wrong 
she thought the military was.

Most law school veterans who have praised Dean Kagan were either not 
present at the law school during the height of the controversy or were 
not then even in the military. Almost all of them were more recent 
graduates or current students at Harvard, people who liked her outreach 
efforts at that time. But that was after she was forced to let the 
recruiters back on campus by the President of the school and by the 
Supreme Court. None of the individuals who have written and said 
positive things were members of the student veterans association that 
she tried to conscript to take care of the needs of the military 
recruiters. None of them wrote any such letter.

I wished to share a few of those thoughts and again challenge my 
colleagues to be as accurate as they can in what they say, either for 
or against this nominee. She is entitled to fair treatment, but these 
matters are very serious. The American people want judges who are 
committed to their oath, and their oath says they are to be impartial, 
that they are to do equal justice to the poor and the rich, and that 
they are to serve under the Constitution and laws of the United States, 
not above it. That is the commitment they must have.

We, the Senate, should never vote to confirm any judge--liberal 
activist or conservative activist--who, once they put on that robe, 
will not be impartial or provide equal justice but will allow personal 
biases, core beliefs, prejudices or politics to influence how they 
decide cases. That is a disqualifying factor.

We must know that any nominee is committed to the ideal of impartial 
justice. I don't believe this nominee has ever demonstrated that she 
would be unbiased in these situations, and, indeed, the record 
indicates she has consistently allowed her personal feelings to 
override the law and her duties. Therefore, I will oppose the 
nomination.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.