# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `848e1a58f4e4c7f285a6ce2e95a777e9`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the Webb 
amendment and urge my colleagues to vote against the cloture motion. 
This amendment is about restricting the President and his military 
leaders' ability to prosecute a war that we have asked them to execute, 
and for which we unanimously confirmed General Petraeus to carry out. 
It is an unwise and harmful effort to limit the ability of the 
President and his military leaders and handicap their use of personnel 
and resources available to them.

Senator Webb's amendment would preclude ''deployment'' of certain 
active and reserve forces based on the number of days they have spent 
at home. Keep in mind these restrictions would apply to the Nation's 
most experienced and capable troops during a time of war when we face 
an unpredictable and highly adaptive enemy.

Keep in mind that during World War II and other wars of this country, 
servicemembers participating in those wars deployed for 3 and 4 years 
with little or no break. With this in mind the current proposal by 
Senator Webb seems out of step with history and what it has taken to 
win the wars of this country. I can think of no way in which the Webb 
amendment will help our Nation succeed in Iraq.

This amendment ignores the fact that we are at war and that 
artificial conditions imposed by Congress on the use of troops are not 
helpful. Senator Webb is not alone in worrying about the effects of 
this war on the readiness of the Armed Forces, on the soldiers and 
marines and their loved ones, and on the ability of our all volunteer 
force to continue to perform under this demanding schedule of 
rotations. Senator Webb's amendment, however, is not a solution to any 
of these problems. Senator Webb stated that his amendment ''does not 
micromanage the military nor does it tie the hands of our operational 
commanders in theater.'' The Pentagon disagrees. The Pentagon has said 
that if the Webb amendment passes, operations and plans would need to 
be significantly altered. Units or individuals without sufficient 
''dwell time'' would need a waiver to deploy based on threat. This 
waiver process adds time, cost, and uncertainty to deployment planning.

In emergency situations the waiver process could affect the war fight 
itself by delaying forces needed in theater. Units would need to be 
selected for deployment based on dwell criteria that may in fact cause 
significant disruption to needed reset, planned transformation or unit 
training schedules.

And from the Joint Staff: For fiscal year 2008, four Army brigade 
combat


teams are projected to incur ''dwell violations;'' gaps in manning 
would be seen in aviation, intelligence, engineer, medical and military 
police; gaps would be seen in high demand units, specifically EOD, 
security forces, forces supporting detainee operations, and mobility 
aircrews. For individual members: ''anticipate high operational impact 
due to breakdowns in unit cohesion and problems in filling individual 
shortfalls in tasked units.''

Public approval ratings for the President and for Congress may be at 
all time lows, but the admiration of the American people for our 
military only gets higher. Why? Well, one reason is they take their 
responsibilities seriously and they train, prepare, and plan to win. 
And we should let them win--not legislate a recipe for failure which 
the amendment clearly does.

The power of the Congress under article 1 of the Constitution to 
''make rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval 
forces'' is well understood, as is the President's authority under 
article 2 to command our military forces as Commander in Chief. This 
amendment, however, is an unprecedented wartime attempt to limit the 
authority of the President and the military leaders by declaring 
substantial numbers of troops and units ''unavailable.''

Putting aside all concerns about potential contingencies that might 
arise, this amendment is unworkable and will make the task of 
generating cohesive units for rotations impossible. Here is the Joint 
Staff's bottom line on the Webb amendment: If a 1:1 dwell policy is 
codified in law, eliminating the flexibility of the services to manage 
and mitigate exceptions to the dwell planning goals, future support to 
OIF/OEF may be severely impacted. Specifically, the requirement to 
provide 15 months of dwell for Army units scheduled to execute 
forthcoming planned 15 month deployments will result in future 
capability gaps in both OIF and OEF unless the force requirements are 
simultaneously reduced to a substantial degree. The same will apply to 
Marine Corps units.

I am also concerned by the provision in the amendment that would 
allow individual members to ''volunteer'' to forego their ''dwell time 
to deployment'' ratio and seek a waiver from the Chief of Staff, CNO or 
Commandant of the Marine Corps to allow them to--voluntarily--return to 
the combat zone. I don't think it could be more clear that this 
provision in the amendment would undermine unit cohesion and readiness 
by encouraging debate in the ranks about when to deploy next. It would 
pit one soldier against another, leaders against those led, and 
encourage the kind of ''cross leveling'' that has been called ''evil 
and corrosive'' by our Reserve and Guard leaders. This notion in 
the amendment would introduce a whole new meaning to the concept of an 
''All Volunteer'' military force: volunteerism instead of duty. It 
would drive wedges between soldiers and between marines, and could only 
hurt discipline and undermine the effectiveness of troops in the field.


I would like to take a step back and talk more generally about our 
ongoing debate on Iraq and reflect on some of the dialogue that has 
transpired over the past few days and weeks, both in this body and 
elsewhere. I am very concerned that so many of my colleagues, and 
observers elsewhere, are declaring the President's change in strategy 
for Iraq--which he embarked on this past January--a failure when all 
the troops to implement that strategy have only been in Iraq for 3 
weeks.

In my opinion, leaders--particularly in elected offices--should do 
what the word implies, and that is ''lead.'' It does not take a leader 
to follow opinion polls, which is what I am afraid that many of my 
colleagues are doing.

Our commanders and ambassador do not believe that the war is lost. 
Asked whether the U.S. could win in Iraq and leave behind a stable 
government, GEN David Petraeus said, ''If I didn't believe that I 
wouldn't be here.''

We have seen promising indicators since the President announced the 
new strategy in January. While al-Qaida and other extremists have 
conducted a counter-surge resulting in numerous horrific mass-casualty 
terrorist attacks, and while it is too early to declare the surge a 
success or failure, we have seen: A substantial drop in sectarian 
murders in Baghdad since January; arms caches found at more than three 
times the rate of a year ago; attacks in Anbar at a 2-year low; total 
car bombings and suicide attacks down in May and June; signs of 
normalcy in Baghdad, like professional soccer leagues, amusement parks, 
and vibrant markets; recruiting for Iraqi police forces drawing 
thousands of candidates; young Sunnis signing up for the army and 
police and more Shia rejecting militias.

Some believe that setting a timeline and pulling troops out of Iraq 
regardless of conditions on the ground would be a responsible end to 
the conflict and/or would put needed pressure on Iraq's government. The 
collective judgment of our intelligence community is that this would 
increase, not decrease, the violence and hinder national 
reconciliation. In fact, a rapid withdrawal would almost certainly lead 
to a significant increase in the scale and scope of sectarian conflict 
in Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the Iraqi Government, and have 
adverse consequences for national reconciliation.

Some have said that General Petraeus does not believe the U.S. 
military can make a difference in Iraq. While General Petraeus has 
indeed said the ultimate solution to Iraq's problems is a political 
one, he has consistently argued that such a solution can only come with 
the improvements in security he is trying to achieve.

I was last in Iraq in early May and learned several things during my 
trip that have convinced me that the President's plan deserves a chance 
to work and that a change in strategy now is the wrong course. For 
example: There has been a significant reduction of sectarian murders 
and assassinations in Baghdad; attacks in Ramadi have eased by 74 
percent in the past 3 months; there have been 263 weapons cache 
discoveries in the past 3 months, a 192 percent increase; over the past 
6 weeks, daily attacks in Ramadi have dropped from an average of 20-25 
a day to less then 3 per day. Last year, only two tribal areas were 
viewed as cooperative with U.S. forces and 17 were uncooperative. 
Today, all 23 tribal areas in Ramadi are cooperating with U.S. forces 
to fight al-Qaida militants. There are no uncooperative tribes. Iraqis 
are now volunteering by the thousands to join local police and army 
forces. At the end of March, there were over 1,200 army recruits in 
just 2 days.

Also from my trip to Iraq I learned that there are still issues that 
we and the Iraqis need to work on and watch closely. There are several 
political issues the Iraqis need to address, including passing a 
hydrocarbon law, continuing reconciliation efforts, debaathification, 
and holding provincial elections. These are keys to political progress.

We need to work to emplace additional provisional reconstruction 
teams--PRTs--in Iraq to help with reconstruction.

However, the foundation for these political issues being resolved and 
for the Iraqi Government continuing to mature and take responsibility 
is improved security throughout the country. That is the approach the 
President has taken, that General Petraeus is executing, and that is 
showing signs of progress. We should not abandon it because we live in 
an impatient society that wants to see results before the President's 
strategy is even fully implemented. We should stick with the plan, give 
it a chance to work, and listen to our military and civilian leaders 
when they report back on the strategies progress in the coming months.

I ask my colleagues to vote against cloture.

I yield the floor.