---
---

# None
## `849b67d860b98f00870abd7b496727d1`
`Mr. GINGREY — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Tennessee, Zach 
Wamp, for, first of all, conducting this special order hour, leadership 
hour on the Republican side, and for allowing me and my colleague and 
great friend from Virginia, Thelma Drake, for being part of that. Doug 
Lamborn, the gentleman from Colorado, I think, has joined us.

Mr. Speaker, I was on the trip with Thelma Drake from Virginia when 
we visited Iraq and Afghanistan, and I am not going to repeat 
everything that she said, but I want my colleagues to know that this 
was my fourth trip to Iraq, my first opportunity to go to Afghanistan.

But this was a necessity that I go this fourth time. I think some 40 
or 50 Members of the Congress during the so-called August recess spent 
5 to 7 days in the Middle East and the combat zone in 120-degree 
weather.

Those of us on the Armed Services Committee, I am sure, felt duty 
bound to do this, particularly as we approach the report from General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker that's going to be delivered to the 
House on next Monday, September 10.

I have been four times, but this was the most meaningful visit, 
because I came to a realization, really, actually, it emboldened my 
feeling that we need to give victory a chance. Again, I want to thank 
Zach Wamp, the gentleman from Tennessee, for the passion that he brings 
to this issue. I thought he was just an expert on energy, but he is 
also an expert on national defense, more important, the global war on 
terror, as he so passionately explains this issue.

I was on the floor last night during some of our special order time, 
5-minute speeches and the two sides, the Democratic majority has an 
hour and the Republican minority has an hour. I heard one of my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle, a gentleman from Maryland, 
talking about losing a soldier, a 22-year-old brave patriot in his 
district, and he talked with the mom and was trying to, of course, 
console her.

The gentleman said on the floor last night, you know, it was sort of 
ironic, the mom of the fallen soldier said, isn't it ironic, I am here 
planning my son's


funeral and the Commander in Chief is planning a wedding.

That's not the kind of commentary that we need on the floor of this 
House to suggest that the Commander in Chief doesn't care, that he has 
got his head in the sand and that each and every one of these 3,700 or 
so KIAs and 18,000 of our best and bravest that have sustained, in some 
instances, massive injuries, if you don't think that the Commander in 
Chief goes to bed every night with this on his heart, then you are just 
flat wrong.

I think the gentleman, on more reflection, would agree with what I am 
saying. This President cares. This Commander in Chief cares. He wants 
to give victory a chance.

It's not a matter of staying the course and same old same old, the 
Iraq Study Group, the gentleman from Indiana, the long-serving 
distinguished Democrat, 37 years in this body, and Ambassador Baker, 
Secretary Baker, served under three Republican Presidents, you have got 
two people that made some suggestions. One of the main suggestions that 
they made was we need a surge, we need more troops, especially in and 
around Baghdad, and those four provinces, where all of the violence, 
most of the violence, 95 percent of it, is occurring. This is exactly 
what the President responded to.

What did we hear from our friends on the other side of the aisle? Oh, 
well, you know, too little, too late.

Yet, you know, 3 or 4 years ago it was, well, you're not putting 
enough troops in there to do the job, you didn't listen to General 
Shinseki, it's a constant pulling the rug out from under the combatant 
commanders, and we see 435 people that want to be Commander in Chief. 
It just doesn't work that way.

In the Democratic special hour last night, after we talked about our 
experience in Iraq and these recent trips, the team on the Democratic 
side said, you know, we can't afford to spend this money. We've almost 
spent $1 trillion trying to win this global war on terror, and we need 
to be spending this money to repair bridges, to give more money to the 
gulf coast, to maybe even give more money than a 300 percent increase 
in the SCHIP program to cover every man, woman and child from cradle-
to-grave with universal health care.

Even if I were for some of those things, I will tell you this, you 
spend that money on those things, and you don't protect our people from 
global terrorism, then you will see, in a New York minute, how quick 
that money would go down the toilet as these people blow up this 
infrastructure, just like they did 9/11, almost 6 years ago now, and 
killed 3,300, almost the same number, that we have lost in Iraq and 
Afghanistan over a 4-year period. They killed them within a period of 
45 minutes.