# MILITARY FAMILY MONTH
## `84a5f223a386d7dae074b81f6d9ad9aa`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 2 December 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today as a proud 
cosponsor of H. Res. 861, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
of National Military Family Month.

The families of those who serve our country on the front lines 
deserve the admiration and appreciation of each and every citizen. 
These family members often watch their loved ones travel to faraway 
lands in support of a cause and an ideal so much greater than any one 
individual. The support given to our service men and women by their 
loved ones is irreplaceable, as it is the foundation for the bravery 
inherent in those who labor steadfastly in the defense of liberty.

The men and women of the United States armed services rely on the 
support and encouragement of their families as they strive to protect 
the liberties and freedoms we enjoy every day at home. From the service 
organizations that provide holiday gifts to the letter that a parent or 
sibling writes to a loved one deployed or stationed abroad, the love 
and support of our military families is paramount. The sacrifices 
performed by these families should never be forgotten or diminished 
because they represent the very foundation of the American spirit.

Let us also make certain that we remember those individuals who are 
in harm's way today in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as those who have 
paid the ultimate sacrifice--we are forever grateful for your heroic 
acts and for your service to our nation.

The brave men, women, and families who have and continue to sacrifice 
for our present freedoms deserve our fullest support. These individuals 
represent our nation's finest qualities, and they must be treated with 
the utmost respect and honor. Recognizing the month of November as 
National Military Family Month is just one small token of our 
appreciation for the families and their sons, daughters, brothers, and 
sisters who labor steadfastly for the United States and its undying 
values of freedom and liberty for all. It is my hope that we will 
continue to do all we can and more for the members of our Armed Forces 
and their families.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this 
resolution.