---
---

# THE RULE OF LAW
## `84da5584ecf35c4688d59dac0d8d4d0b`
`Mr. McCAUL — 15 March 2010`

---


Mr. McCAUL. It was refreshing to see that. And I don't always agree 
with her either, but she had the courage to call it like it is, like 
you and I called it for quite some time. The sad thing is there are 13 
dead, one unborn, and 43 wounded because people didn't have the guts to 
stand up and call it what it was. You know, the day that happened it 
seemed to me there was a systematic process of trying to--like you 
said, I was a prosecutor too. If you can't win this case, you know, you 
need to get out of the business. The sweeping under the rug and not 
wanting to hold hearings on this issue and not willing to brief us.

We finally got a briefing on this just a couple of weeks ago for the 
first time. And you saw the impact this administration was trying to 
have on this whole thing that no, this wasn't--you know, we can't 
really call it what it is because we don't want to offend anybody. 
Well, that is the same type of attitude that led to this monster 
killing 13 people to begin with.


It was when all these red flags popped up and these dots, if you 
will, when they popped up, no one had the guts to act on it. And they 
want to sweep it under the rug, and they swept his promotion. They 
promoted him, even though all this was out there, swept it under the 
rug. And now even after the tragic events that happened that day, there 
is an attempt, in my view, to try to sweep all this under the rug and 
trying to move forward.

You know, this is one example of many things that have happened this 
past year. I always said that they like to attack a President in the 
first year of office, al Qaeda. They did it with Bill Clinton, '93 
World Trade Center. They did it with George W. Bush with 9/11. And I 
predicted that this was going to happen under this President's watch 
this year. And not only did this happen, but we had the same radical 
cleric tied to the Christmas bomber. Fortunately, Mr. Hasan will face a 
military tribunal. The Christmas bomber, on the other hand, will not.

We had several events over the last year of threats to the United 
States and multiple attempted terrorist attacks on the United States of 
America. And I think it is high time we recognize it and see it for 
what it is to better protect the American people and our military bases 
that we know are being targeted right now. The idea that the Joint 
Terrorism Task Force and, again, these are friends of mine, that they 
had this information and they didn't--I understand compromising 
investigations. But you could at least let the general at the base know 
that he has an individual, a major, in his outfit talking to a top al 
Qaeda recruiter, and you may just want to put him under observation. 
You don't have to question him, you don't have to dig into his files, 
you don't have to put him on alert that we are looking at him; but you 
may want to kind of just monitor his actions because there is some 
radical stuff going on, and potentially he could be a threat.

This man did not believe in the mission. The irony of Mr. Hasan is he 
was the man trained and paid for by the taxpayer in the United States 
Army to counsel people coming back from the theater of war, and he 
didn't believe in the mission. I can only imagine what kind of 
counseling he was giving to these troops coming back from the war 
theaters that you and I have been to in Iraq and Afghanistan and what 
he was telling them when he himself didn't believe in the mission they 
were sent to do. That is the absurd irony of Mr. Hasan.

And, again, as General Cone asked, how many more Hasans are out 
there? I think we have a duty in the Congress. I think the Department 
of Defense has a duty. I hope the Webster report will uncover more of 
this. But we have a duty to better protect our soldiers not only 
abroad, but right here in the United States. And that is the great, 
awful tragic event of what happened was that it happened on American 
soil and it happened in their home. That is just not supposed to occur 
in this country.

It needs to be taken seriously. It shouldn't be swept under the rug. 
And I think we should continue to do this and continue to ask the 
majority to hold hearings on this. And you know, as Secretary 
Napolitano admitted, it was a violent Islamic terrorist attack. I think 
the Department of Defense needs to come forward with that as well, and 
I think we have an obligation to the American people not to sweep this 
under the rug, to prevent future actions from occurring. Our oversight 
responsibilities under the Constitution I take very seriously, and we 
have a duty here in the Congress to hold those hearings and get to the 
bottom of this case so we can stop it in the future.

I went down to Guantanamo after the President decided to close it 
down, and I saw Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. And it was during prayer hour. 
And he was laying on his rug, bowing to Mecca. And it was one of the 
most chilling things I have ever seen in my life. A man responsible for 
killing 3,000 Americans, and the idea that we are going to bring him 
into the United States. And look, I am a Federal prosecutor. The 
Southern District of New York is one of the best U.S. Attorney's 
offices in the country. But are we going to treat these people as 
criminal defendants or enemy combatants? Are we going to say that this 
is a war or a criminal prosecution?

It seems to me that we are slipping back into the Clinton years, 
where we really looked at these as really just illegal criminal 
prosecution, not an act of warfare perpetrated against the United 
States of America. It seems to me, particularly with the top 16 al 
Qaeda operatives, many of whom were responsible for 9/11, that was an 
act of warfare, and it should be treated as such.

