---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE ``HELPING OUR HEROES FOUNDATION''
## `84eb07ff5aac9a7d8b68a0d62dcea6b4`
`Ms. BORDALLO â€” 10 December 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Helping 
Our Heroes Foundation (HOHF) for its many accomplishments, and their 
volunteers for their support of our servicemembers and their families.

The Helping Our Heroes Foundation, founded in October of 2004, is 
preparing to conclude its mission at the end of this year. Over the 
past four years, the Helping Our Heroes Foundation has provided funding 
and services and organized volunteers in support of servicemembers 
injured in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. The 
Helping Our Heroes Foundation has done so through a partnership with 
the Department of the Army. This partnership has improved the quality 
and scope of services and opportunities made available to our veterans 
during and after their recovery at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in 
Washington, DC. The support provided by the Helping Our Heroes 
Foundation has boosted morale for our veterans and assisted their 
families with challenges associated with recovery.

Among its many initiatives, the Helping Our Heroes Foundation has 
supported our wounded heroes by sponsoring baby showers for expectant 
mothers who are spouses of injured servicemembers, resume writing 
workshops for veterans ready to transition to the civilian workforce, 
scholarships to enable advanced education and training, and activities 
to bring the community together. The Helping Our Heroes Foundation also 
has excelled in its goal of securing charitable donations in support of 
veterans programs. These are a few examples of the Foundation's overall 
efforts.

Volunteers are at the heart of the Helping Our Heroes Foundation's 
success. The leadership of its Board of Directors and its founding 
donors has enabled the Foundation to fulfill its goals. In particular, 
Ms. Karen Theobald-Conlin, who serves as President of the Helping Our 
Heroes Foundation, is to be recognized for her initiative and 
commitment. On this occasion, communities and veterans across the 
country are joining together to recognize the support provided by the 
Helping Our Heroes Foundation, its Board of Directors and volunteers, 
to our wounded heroes and their families. As a Member of Congress who 
has taken part in their activities at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, 
and witnessed the good work of their volunteers, I join others in 
recognizing the role the Helping Our Heroes Foundation has served for 
our veterans. We will continue to honor our veterans based on the 
foundation established by the Helping Our Heroes Foundation.
