---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `84f437e95491774e8f4453fa26646141`
`Mr. SPECTER â€” 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. I thank the distinguished chairman.















 Amendment No. 2599


I have sought recognition to speak briefly on the nomination of Judge 
Leslie Southwick to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. I have 
spoken extensively about Judge Southwick in the past, but I do want to 
address a few remarks on the pending amendment offered by Senator 
McConnell and myself on the sense of the Senate that Judge Southwick 
ought to have an up-or-down vote on the floor of the Senate. It is my 
hope that we will proceed on judicial confirmations in a spirit of 
bipartisanship. Senator Leahy, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and 
I have worked very closely on that in this Congress, as he and I did in 
the 109th Congress when I was chairman and he was ranking member.

This body has seen some very controversial moments: in 2005, with 
filibusters against President Bush's nominees and the threat at that 
time to invoke the ''nuclear'' or ''constitutional option'' which would 
have brought the Senate to a standstill. We avoided that showdown and 
then worked harmoniously, in a dignified way, with Supreme Court 
nominations in 2005 and 2006. It is my hope we will find a way through 
on the Southwick nomination. I hope we do not have this vote degenerate 
back to a party-line vote without the kind of independent thought the 
Senate ought to exercise in evaluating the question which is whether 
Judge Southwick ought to have an up-or-down vote.

Judge Southwick has an extraordinary record. I do not use that word 
lightly. He served on the Mississippi State appellate court for some 12 
years. He has been a party to some 8,000 decisions. He has written 985 
opinions himself. He is rated unanimously well qualified by the 
American Bar Association. He passed out of the Judiciary Committee, 
unanimously, for a district court judgeship. He has been an adjunct 
professor at a law school. He was clerk of the Court of Appeals for the 
Fifth Circuit, so he has experience there. In a very unusual way, in 
his fifties, he volunteered for the Judge Advocate General's Corps, 
volunteered to go to Iraq and served there in a heavy combat zone.

I have had occasion to talk to him at great length, and he is a 
scholarly, intellectual, experienced lawyer, an experienced jurist. I 
have put into the Record detailed statements about many of his 
decisions where he has found in favor of the so-called little guy, 
finding in favor of people who have tort claims for injuries sustained, 
in favor of employees in employment cases.

The only two situations which have been brought up in opposition to 
Judge Southwick are two cases where he concurred in an opinion, two 
opinions which he did not write. In one of the opinions, it was a 
custody case, and the court found in favor of the father. There was a 
reference to the ''homosexual lifestyle'' of the mother which is a term 
that is used with some frequency. I think there could be more 
discretion in that language, but the


court found in favor of the father because of his community roots, 
because of the home he could provide for the child, and because of the 
father's income. The important thing about that case was its procedural 
posture. That was the sum and substance of that matter.

There was a second case where the issue involved a racial slur which 
admittedly was reprehensible. It was said by an individual, a public 
employee, about a fellow worker who was not present at the time. The 
subject did not hear the slur. There was an immediate apology. There 
was no workplace disturbance. The issue then came before an 
administrative review board that found that although the comment was 
reprehensible, under these facts it was not sufficient to support 
termination of employment. That issue then came back before the 
appellate court on a very narrow question. The question was whether the 
decision by the administrative board was arbitrary and capricious, 
which is lawyer talk for whether there was any evidence to support the 
board's ruling. The court felt that there was evidence to support the 
conclusion that there was not sufficient grounds for firing. The case 
then went to the State Supreme Court, and the State Supreme Court 
remanded on the limited question about having more detailed factual 
findings. But the Supreme Court of Mississippi agreed that the incident 
was not sufficient to warrant a permanent firing.

That is the sum and substance of the objections. When you look at the 
full record, you see that Judge Southwick ruled in a case where the 
trial judge had excluded evidence that the victim of a crime was gay, 
and Judge Southwick upheld the ruling that that would have been 
prejudicial, defense counsel should not have been permitted to ask that 
of a victim, seeking only to prejudice the jury. It did not having any 
bearing on the issue involved in the case. This supports the conclusion 
that Judge Southwick, in the custody case to which I referred, did not 
have any demonstrate traits or indications that he was biased or 
prejudiced or unjudicial in his approach to that particular issue.

It is my hope we will take a careful look at Judge Southwick's record 
before casting votes. I understand there will be a tabling motion. We 
should look at the underlying merits.

When we had the controversy in 2005, I urged my colleagues in the 
strongest terms to take a look at whether they thought individually 
filibusters were warranted against Priscilla Owen and Bill Pryor and 
Janice Rogers Brown. I asked my Republican colleagues to take a look on 
the merits as to whether it was warranted to talk about a ''nuclear'' 
or ''constitutional option.'' I make the same plea here today. Let's 
not be bound by a party-line vote, ignoring the merits.

There have been comments on the floor today, as there have been in 
the past, about President Clinton's nominees being improperly treated. 
I agree with that today, and I agreed with that when it happened, and I 
crossed party lines. I have crossed party lines to vote for President 
Clinton's judicial nominees when they were qualified. I hope we will 
come in the Senate, take a look at the individuals, take a look at the 
merits, and not move for a party-line consideration, and not avoid a 
vote, to have the man bottled up in committee. That smacks of the days 
of Senator Jim Eastland, when the Judiciary Committee bottled matters 
and prevented the Senate from voting on them.

I can understand there are some Senators who do not want a vote on 
Judge Southwick, but that is what we are here for. That is the pay 
grade--to vote. So I urge my colleagues to look at this matter on the 
merits. I hope we do not have our actions disintegrate to the kind of 
controversy we had a couple years ago, but that we can move beyond this 
to the kind of bipartisanship which Senator Leahy and I have been able 
to muster for the Judiciary Committee.

I thank the Senator from Montana for allowing me to speak. I know the 
Senator from South Carolina, Mr. Lindsey Graham, has a few comments. I 
expect he will be very brief on the subject.