# EXPLAINING VOTE ON CHRISTMAS RESOLUTION
## `84fa91ac138f0489b5d75bf89f52f94c`
`Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, there are times when it is 
important for people to admit when they have made mistakes, and I made 
one. I voted last week ''present'' on a resolution that it was 
Christmas. Now, when I read the resolution, I decided to vote 
''present'' because it made some controversial statements about the 
constitutional history of the United States and the role of 
Christianity in that.

I am not a historian. I don't know whether that was an accurate 
statement or not, and I didn't want to vote on it one way or the other. 
It also made a number of statements about Christian theology, about 
which I am even less expert, being Jewish and not being an expert in 
other religions. So I voted ''present.''

But it was then called to my attention that earlier this year I had 
voted for a resolution congratulating people for observing Ramadan, so 
I was in the awkward position of having voted in favor of celebrating 
Ramadan and having abstained on Christmas, and the mistake was I should 
have abstained on Ramadan as well.

The point is, and this reinforces it to me, it is really none of the 
business of the Congress of the United States as an official body 
whether or not people celebrate religious holidays. Our job is to 
preserve a free society in which people are able to celebrate their 
religious holidays if they wish to. But picking and choosing among 
religious holidays, seems to me, is odd.

By the way, when you announce you have the power to approve a 
holiday, I assume that means ordinarily you have the power to 
disapprove it. Does that mean that we could have said we don't approve 
of Ramadan or we don't approve of Christmas? Again, these are examples 
of the intrusiveness.

As I said, I find myself in an odd position, where people said, Are 
you pro-Ramadan and anti-Christmas? Frankly, I observe neither holiday. 
I wish well those who do, but as an individual, not as a Member of 
Congress. In fact, I have had obviously, living in this society, much 
more association with Christmas. But, again, that's as an individual.

That was driven home to me when I see a debate, particularly on the 
Republican side, between candidates as to the nature of the religion of 
my former Governor. This whole tendency further to entangle religion 
and politics is harmful to both, in my judgment. So I will acknowledge, 
and I understood when the Ramadan resolution came forward, in fact it 
was brought forward, let's be honest, for a broadly political reason. 
People thought that having us celebrate Ramadan might in some way 
alleviate an anti-American feeling that has grown out of the Iraq war. 
That is not what you talk about religion for.

So I should have voted ''present'' on both, not out of any disrespect 
for either religion, but out of respect for a system of democratic 
governance in which we politicians don't decide what is or isn't good 
religion. I would hope that that would no longer be part of the 
Republican Presidential debate. I don't believe Mormon theology has any 
point there. I will say this: I am no great fan of Governor Romney, nor 
he of me, but he served for 4 years as Governor of Massachusetts, and I 
don't remember a day when his religion was relevant.

Deciding that will alleviate any anti-American feelings on Ramadan, 
and then, okay, we will get back and show you that we are going to talk 
about Christmas. And we're going to talk about the constitutional 
history of the United States in these terms, and then let's have a 
debate about religion. It is not negative about religion to say that 
religion is best served when politicians do not seek to use it, intrude 
into it. Our job, again, is to preserve a Nation of freedom in which 
people can practice religion as they wish. No one ought to be looking 
for my approval as to this or that religious holiday.

So I will announce in the future I will not applaud people for 
Ramadan or for Christmas or for Yom Kippur or for any of the other 
holidays. I will work very hard to make sure every American and 
everyone in this country can observe those religious freedoms. But 
entangling us into religion for political purposes is simply a great 
mistake and serves no good.

Therefore, I do apologize. I erred when I voted for the Ramadan 
resolution. I should have voted ''present'' on Ramadan. I should have 
voted ''present'' on Christmas. But, even better, we should simply 
abstain from bringing into this very political body


of elected people issues about this or that religious holiday. Let's 
leave religious holidays in peace.
