---
---

# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2007
## `84fc89c267cbc5bcbbfa4ac26d9b80b6`
`Mr. RODRIGUEZ â€” 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Mr. Speaker, veterans with service-related 
disabilities deserve not only our admiration, but also our support. 
This is why today I rise in strong support of H.R. 327, H.R. 797 and 
H.R. 1284, a series of bills assisting our service men and women.

H.R. 327, The Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act will 
require the Veterans' Affairs Department to develop and implement a 
comprehensive program to reduce the incidence of suicide among 
veterans. Last year a survey study conducted among Army and Marine 
combat units returning from Iraq and Afghanistan found that one in 
eight troops reported symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD). Moreover, less than half of these soldiers experiencing 
symptoms sought professional help, primarily out of fear of being 
stigmatized by peers or hurting their military careers. With PTSD comes 
feelings of estrangement from others, loss of satisfaction in 
previously satisfying activities, and the feeling of hopelessness about 
the future. It is no wonder then, that veterans suffer a higher risk of 
suicide. This bill, H.R. 327, is an important step in the right 
direction to ending the soldiers' stigma for seeking help, and gives 
hope to thousands of veterans and their families coping with the costs 
of war.

Like H.R. 327, The Veterans Vision Equity Act (H.R. 797), is intended 
to providing our patriots with the care they deserve. H.R. 797 would 
change current law to provide veterans who receive disability 
compensation because of blindness in one eye, additional benefits if 
they are visually impaired in the second eye. This bill provides only a 
small change to the current code, yet it would aid an estimated 13,200 
veterans in getting proper compensation for their disability. We 
blessed with vision often take our sight for granted, but the loss of 
one's sight no doubt requires an altering of lifestyle. Indeed, the 
sights that once filled eyes with beauty are regulated to memories and 
perceived only in the imagination. Many of our veterans are coping with 
such a change, and this bill is important in supporting their 
transition.

Finally there is H.R. 1284, The Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living 
Adjustment Act of 2007. This bill would provide an increase in the rate 
of compensation for disabled veterans, as well as provide an increase 
in rates


of dependency and indemnity compensation for these veterans' families. 
The baby-boom generation understands why this bill is necessary: costs 
are going up. When I was young five dollars could buy you dinner and 
take you to the movies--now it can buy you a can of soda and chips. 
Indeed, inflation is slowly but surely driving up costs for basic goods 
and services. It is important that we meet our obligations to our 
veterans by providing them with benefits commensurate to their service. 
H.R. 1284 would achieve just that.

We are a nation at war. As such, now more than ever, maintaining the 
well-being of our veterans is paramount. Already, we have asked for so 
much from our service men and women, and now it is time that we return 
the favor. I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting our troops 
and vote ''yes'' on H.R. 327, H.R. 797 and H.R. 1284.