---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `84fe2001c4137ad638370bf049b26518`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee for allowing me to speak.

Before I get into my prepared remarks, part of the resolution, if my 
colleagues would go to page 5 of the resolution, says as part of the 
justification required, the President shall, at a minimum, address 
whether it is necessary for the Armed Forces to carry out the following 
missions: protecting U.S. diplomatic facilities and U.S. citizens, 
including Armed Forces who are engaged in carrying out other missions; 
serving in roles consistent with customary diplomatic positions; but 
also, engaging in actions to disrupt and eliminate al Qaeda and its 
affiliated organizations in Iraq.

So while I sat here on the floor listened and heard, ''we are bailing 
out of attacking al Qaeda,'' we are not doing that. This resolution 
says we will still be there. The President has to certify, though, that 
is what we are doing. We are not shoring up the Iraqi Government; we 
are fighting al Qaeda, who brought us September 11. So anybody who says 
we are leaving is just wrong.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution and this 
legislation, and thank Chairman Skelton for his work on the bill. Like 
Chairman Skelton, I want to thank our soldiers, sailors, airmen and 
Marines and their families who are serving our country.



I have stated before, we must let the Iraqi Government know our 
commitment is not open-ended. I have not supported efforts for 
immediate withdrawal, but this bill, just like our first supplemental 
sent to the President, which he vetoed, lets the Iraqi Government know 
that they need to make some tough choices to stabilize their country 
within the next several months.

It also gives our administration time to have a comprehensive 
strategy in Iraq, and allows the troops to remain to protect our 
diplomatic facilities and fight al Qaeda, and training and equipping 
the Iraqi security forces.

As this legislation states, we give the President the authority to 
use the Armed Forces to defend the national security of the United 
States against the continuing threat posed by the Iraqi government at 
that time. But we won that battle. The government was removed. The 
power and its leader indicted, tried and convicted, and executed by the 
newly elected, now-democratic government of Iraq.

This bill will bring our troops home by April 1 of next year--that 
will be more than 5 years since the war began. U.S. taxpayers have 
spent billions of dollars, and thousands of troops have given their 
lives to bring security and stability to Iraq.

While the current Iraqi government has been organizing and security 
forces have been training, our forces have been responsible for every 
facet of security in Iraq. Our troops defeated Saddam's Army, worked to 
control the country, policed Iraq's streets, protected the transitional 
and elected governments, and trained Iraq security forces.

Our military has given the Iraqi government, the Iraqi security 
forces, and the Iraqi people every opportunity to have a stable, 
democratic country. It is time to let the Iraqi people know that 5 
years is long enough--they must take responsibility for the future of 
their country.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill to bring our 
troops home in a safe, responsible timeframe.