---
---

# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 2669, COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF
## `8507486ede6ad963e0e152e57163fd81`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding me this time, and I appreciate the gentleman from Michigan for 
his leadership on this important issue of Gitmo.

I rise today in strong support of the motion to instruct conferees on 
H.R. 2669. When the other body considered this legislation, the 
Republican leader inserted language to prohibit dangerous terrorists 
being detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, from being transferred to 
American soil. I believe it is crucial this language remain in the 
bill.

The findings of the sense of the Senate quoted threats of Osama bin 
Laden. Item 8, Osama bin Laden, the leader of al Qaeda, said in his 
1998 fatwa against the United States that: ''The ruling to kill the 
Americans and their allies, civilians and military, is an important 
individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which 
it is possible to do it.''

Item 9 in the same fatwa, Osama bin Laden said: ''We, with God's 
help, call on every Muslim who believes in God and wishes to be 
rewarded to comply with God's order to kill Americans and plunder their 
money wherever and whenever they can find it.''

These terrorists currently held at Guantanamo Bay are treated in 
accordance with U.S. and international laws. I have visited the 
facility two times, and both times I was impressed by the high level of 
security and the professional management of the detainees.

Importing dangerous foreign terrorists, like 9/11 mastermind Khalid 
Sheikh Mohammed, into American communities would be dangerous and 
irresponsible. Terrorists would have the opportunity to recruit and 
teach their skills. Additionally, I am very concerned that they could 
potentially escape and harm Americans here at home again.

Since April, American forces have captured two terrorists with strong 
al Qaeda ties: al-Hadi al-Iraqi, one of al Qaeda's highest ranking and 
most experienced senior operatives, and Haroon al-Afghani, who has 
admitted to being a courier for the al Qaeda senior leadership. Both 
men are currently detained at Guantanamo Bay. Inviting these criminals 
into American communities would be reckless. Any domestic detention 
facility would be a prime target for a terrorist attack that al Qaeda 
could mount within the borders of the United States.

As the former chairman of the Lexington County Law Enforcement 
Advisory Council of Sheriff Jimmy Metts and as a former member of the 
South Carolina State Senate Corrections and Penology Committee, I am 
very familiar with corrections facilities. The Guantanamo detention 
facilities are world class as to humane lodging and security of the 
inmates and for the personnel who serve as guards or medical support.

As America continues to fight the global war on terrorism, I am 
confident that Guantanamo Bay remains the safest place to detain 
captured terrorists who pose a serious threat to American families. 
These terrorists have disclosed terrorist cells which have been stopped 
from attacking Americans and our allies worldwide.

I urge my colleagues to rise with me in strong support of this motion 
that would ensure Americans are kept safe from known terrorists.