# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `852252f1eb2c8268fa76efbdc9640171`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today I am introducing a bill honoring 
and memorializing a fallen Iowa hero. Scott Nisely had served his 
country in Iraq just short of a year when, on September 30, 2006, he 
was killed in combat.

Scott Nisely served his country in many capacities during his 
lifetime. He devoted his life to his family, church, and country and 
has positively affected numerous lives. Scott Nisely's military service 
includes about 25 years with the U.S. Marine Corps, starting as an ROTC 
student, then 12 years on active duty, almost 9 years in the Marine 
Corps Reserve during which he achieved the rank of major. Most 
recently, he took a significant decrease in rank to serve his country 
once again in the Iowa Army National Guard for about 4 years until he 
was killed in combat. His public service also includes 12 years with 
the U.S. Postal Service. In addition, Scott served his community by his 
participation in the First Baptist Church's music ministry as a 
drummer. He was a devoted father who walked his daughter down the aisle 
for her wedding right before his deployment to Iraq. The wedding had 
been moved up because Sarah, his daughter, wanted him in her wedding 
and was worried he wouldn't return home.

In recognition of this devoted family man and public servant, the 
bill I am introducing with the support of my colleague from Iowa, 
Senator Harkin, would name the post office located at 309 East Linn 
Street in Marshalltown, IA, the Major Scott Nisely Post Office. The 
idea came from Scott's coworkers at the Marshalltown Post Office and it 
is indeed a fitting tribute. Representative Latham is introducing 
identical legislation in the House of Representatives today with the 
support of the other members of Iowa's House delegation. I am pleased 
to be able to propose this small token of recognition and gratitude for 
someone who has given so much to his country, and I urge its swift 
consideration.