# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `8530886a5c19733e3757417c18c105e1`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Madam President, I thank the Senator from Oklahoma for 
the time for debate.

I thank my colleague from Delaware, whom I enjoyed listening to and 
with whom I enjoyed serving on the Foreign Relations Committee.

I say at the outset, I have been endorsing and speaking often around 
the country about this notion of a federated system in Iraq, of the 
need for a three-state, one-country solution, with Baghdad as a federal 
city, where we have a Sunni area, a Shia area, and a Kurdish region.

I have been in Irbil as well. In the middle of January, I was there. 
I agree with his analysis of history. When you look at these 
situations, and you take a big military apparatus off the top of a 
place such as the former Yugoslavia, or now in Iraq, and then you have 
these old, ancient hatreds that sit there, how do you deal with them? 
That is why I think this is a political solution that is right. I agree 
with my colleague from Delaware about that.

I wish he had not left the floor yet so we could have some discussion 
on that point because I think, though, that issue would then bode to 
voting against this resolution because what we are going to need to 
have is a period of time to get that political machination in place. We 
are going to need some time and space for Kurds, Sunnis, and Shias to 
be able to talk together, to be able to talk in an environment where 
there are not these mass car bombs and assaults and attacks taking 
place on a sectarian basis--such as took place in Bosnia--so that you 
can be able to allow the political system to work.

These are not mutually exclusive objectives of having a military 
apparatus in operation and in place in Iraq while you are pushing 
forward a very sensible and probably the only political solution that 
can take place, having an area for Sunnis, Shias, and a Kurdish 
region--which already exists. I might add this is in the Iraqi 
Constitution now. This sort of sectarian division of areas is allowed 
in the Iraqi Constitution. They have even taken the first steps of 
implementation. The Kurdish area is being operated by the Kurds. The 
oil revenues, which are being equally--by the last agreement--divided 
up around the country, are the glue to hold this system together.

This can and should take place. I urge the administration to push 
this, and even to bring these leaders together in-country or outside of 
the country to push this form of political solution. But I would add on 
top of that, that form of political solution would then say: Do not 
vote for this resolution that sets a timetable under which this must 
happen because these are things that are going to take some period of 
time. As my colleague from Delaware noted, we have been in Bosnia for 
the last 15 years putting this in place and holding this in place.

That is the requirement of this, then, so the passions can calm down, 
the sectarian passions can cool. You are going to need a force in place 
to see this political solution on through. That is the long-term 
objective I think we need to look at, this form he is on track to, but 
that would be in opposition to this resolution that sets a timetable.

I respect his discourse and I respect my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle who may look at it differently, but I think we have to 
look at recent history to tell us this is a logical way that would take 
place.

Iraq is more three groups held together by exterior forces at the 
present time--with pressure from Turkey, with pressure from the Gulf 
States, with pressure--that is not constructive--from a couple of other 
neighbors, particularly Iran and Syria.

I think we need to recognize that political solution that is there, 
the exterior forces, and push this political solution in the 
environment of a more stable military apparatus and military operation.

This resolution, it seems to me, is clearly not a call for victory. 
Therefore, it must be seen as a call for retreat. Even its supporters 
do not contend it is a plan for victory. We need to win. They talk 
about the problems we face, not the solutions we need. But yet there is 
a middle road here, even, of engaging the Senator from Delaware, his 
political solution with this military rationale, the military needs 
that are going to be there that is still in place in Bosnia and is 
going to be in place for some time in Iraq. We will need a military 
presence in Iraq for some time to come even to get to that political 
solution.

We cannot predict how long that presence will be

 necessary or exactly what type of presence will be required. At the 
Dayton Accords, did we predict at that point in time it would be for a 
period of 5 years and no more? No. We said: We are going to help 
provide the stability so the political solution can take place. We did 
not put a set date: OK, in 1 year, we will have this few troops; and in 
2 years, we will not have any of these types of troops; and in 3 years 
we will be out. We did not say that. We said: OK, here is a political 
solution, and we are going to help stabilize this militarily for 
whatever time necessary to be able to do that.


These solutions need to be brought together, not to be argued 
separately. I am not calling for an open-ended commitment to Iraq. I am 
suggesting that our commitment be driven by the mission. We must 
complete it. We must get this done. We can express opposition to the 
surge, which I have certainly done. But after doing so, I think we 
should oversee the implementation of it, not to try to undercut it, nor 
should we attempt to interrupt a mission just getting underway.



We are looking at this right now. I cannot vote for a plan that would 
begin a withdrawal of U.S. troops before the surge forces are even 
fully deployed at this point in time. The 4th Brigade of the 1st 
Infantry Division, based at Fort Riley, KS, recently arrived in 
Baghdad. I do not think it would be wise for us to tell those soldiers 
they should prepare to leave Iraq even before they get their gear 
unpacked.

Not only do I believe it is inappropriate for us to legislate a 
timetable for withdrawal, I also believe it is bad policy for us to do 
this in Iraq.

First, supporters claim the resolution continues the fight against 
the terrorists by leaving a minimal force in place for counterterrorism 
operations. But apparently the terrorists are not getting that message. 
Two days ago, one of the al-Qaida leaders in Iraq used a jihadist Web 
site to discuss the very resolution we are now debating in the Senate. 
He said:




 The democratic majority in the American Congress announced 


 that the security plan must produce its fruits in the middle 


 of this summer or else they would expedite the departure of 


 the forces at the end of this year.


Can there be any clearer evidence that al-Qaida is ready to wait us 
out?

In fact, al-Qaida not only approves of a timetable for withdrawal, it 
is working feverishly to expedite our departure. In the last few weeks, 
al-Qaida bombings have stood out as obstacles to stemming the cycle of 
sectarian violence in and around Baghdad. Sunni leaders have become so 
tired of al-Qaida violence against their own communities that they are 
turning to U.S. forces for protection. A timetable for withdrawal 
serves al-Qaida's interests.

For many years now, several of my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle have rejected the idea that Iraq is a part--a central part--of 
the war on terrorism. I believe the statement I just read and others by 
al-Qaida leaders, the recent al-Qaida-inspired violence, and the Sunnis 
rejection of that violence should end this discussion. Iraq is 
unquestionably a key front in the war on terror, and it is essential we 
prevail against the terrorists in Iraq. If my colleagues are serious 
about fighting the war on terror, they should frustrate al-Qaida by 
voting against--against--this resolution.