# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `85469687363be71d5a7bedd78d2a4e2e`
`Mr. DOMENICI â€” 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise in support of the nomination of 
GEN David Petraeus to be commander of American and allied forces in 
Iraq.

General Petraeus has had a long and distinguished career in the U.S. 
Army. From the moment he graduated from the U.S. Military Academy in 
1974, General Petraeus has shown himself to be a dedicated officer and 
leader. He has held numerous leadership positions in the Army and has 
served throughout the world. Most recently, General Petraeus was the 
commander of the NATO training mission to Iraq and before that 
commanded the 101st Airborne Division during the first year of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. Additionally, General Petraeus has earned MPA 
and Ph.D. degrees in international relations from Princeton 
University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs 
and has received many awards and decorations including the 
Distinguished Service Medal and the Bronze Star for valor. Furthermore, 
he is widely regarded for having written the book on how to conduct 
counterinsurgency operations.

I recently met with General Petraeus to discuss the current situation 
in Iraq and our need to achieve a stable and secure, self-governing 
Iraq. He is clearly aware of the difficult challenges that he will 
face. In our meeting and in his testimony to the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, General Petraeus clearly outlined what is at stake in Iraq 
and has convinced me that he is the best man to command Multi-national 
Force-Iraq at a most challenging time for the United States and the 
Iraqi Government.

I have confidence in his pledge to me that he will openly and 
honestly tell Congress the situation on the ground as it unfolds and 
provide forthright advice regarding the new strategy in Iraq, and I am 
heartened by his commitment to the Armed Services Committee to provide 
periodic updates on the situation in Iraq.

I have made clear to General Petraeus that I will support him, his 
efforts, and our troops in every way, but my support for the 
President's new strategy for Iraq is conditioned on seeing measurable 
progress by Iraqis in securing and reconstructing their country.

Clearly, based upon his intellect and experience in Iraq and 
elsewhere, General Petraeus is an excellent choice to command American 
and allied forces in Iraq, and I support his nomination.