---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `854fd4c99fe67f0e68379bec5f2c400a`
`Mr. KNOLLENBERG — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. KNOLLENBERG. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the ranking member 
profusely for granting me this time.

It is with regret that I rise today in opposition to the defense 
supplemental bill. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I 
wanted to be able to support a bill that would provide our soldiers 
with the funding they need to carry out their mission in Iraq. But I 
must oppose it because it presupposes our defeat in Iraq by tying the 
hands of the military leaders.

Further, it adds nonemergency spending, lots of spending, and sets 
new precedents. And of particular concern to me, fails to fix some 
major problems that were created in the continuing resolution with 
respect to rental assistance for our neediest families.

The continuing resolution changed the formula for distributing $16 
billion in rental assistance under the section 8 program. The result is 
less funding, more uncertainty, a ''use it or lose it'' mentality, and 
a loss of any incentive to plan over the long run. It rewards excessive 
spending and punishes cost-effectiveness and will set public housing 
authorities against one another by creating new winners and losers 
every year.

The impacts on the program are staggering. Over 1,220 PHAs in 30 
States will lose $460 million permanently. That means forever. I have 
here a list that I include for the Record of all the PHAs that are 
going to lose funds and how much they are going to lose. It also 
includes the name of the Member of this body who represents each of 
those PHAs.

So the supplemental bill before us today tries to fix some of the 
problems in the CR, but it fails to do that, and it distracts from the 
true purpose of this bill which is to support our troops in harm's way.

Mr. Speaker, I will be the first to admit that mistakes have been 
made in the execution of the war. No one is disputing that. Even 
Secretary of State Rice has admitted there are mistakes. But there is 
no sense in looking backward. Not now. We should give the 
administration's new policy a chance to work before presupposing its 
failure and our ultimate defeat in Iraq.

Let me be clear: I want our troops to come home as soon as possible, 
but I want them to return in victory, not defeat. It is time for the 
Iraqis to assume responsibility for the security of their nation. I am 
hopeful that the administration's new policy will bring to an end the 
sectarian violence in Baghdad and provide an opening for the Iraqi 
Government to step up to the plate.

It was a bipartisan vote of Congress that authorized this war 4 years 
ago. It is going to take bipartisan cooperation to bring about its 
successful conclusion. This bill, unfortunately, is anything but 
bipartisan. It is nothing more than a crafty way for the Democrat 
majority to set a hard-and-fast deadline for troop withdrawals before 
we have even given the new Iraq strategy a chance to succeed.

Let's give our troops a chance to stabilize Iraq and come home in 
victory. Let's pass a clean supplemental which gives the troops the 
resources they need to protect themselves. I strongly urge a ''no'' 
vote.


[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.001




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.002




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.003




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.004




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.005




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.006




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.007




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.008




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.009




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.010




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.011




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.012




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.013




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.014




[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TH22MR07.015



