# IN HONOR OF THE 233RD ANNIVERSARY OF UNITED STATES ARMY
## `85556cdf460f6fdb207993c27b9ccdf6`
`Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas — 12 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BOYDA of Kansas. Madam Speaker, I rise in recognition of an 
important anniversary--the birthday of the United States Army.

Just shy of 233 years ago the people of our nation came together as 
volunteers to meet the demands of the American Revolutionary War. On 
June 14, 1775, the United States Army was born. I believe that on that 
day, the defense of our freedom and the American spirit of democracy 
was born.

Since the birth of our Army, we've battled through 24 major 
engagements including the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, the 
American Civil War, two World Wars, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, 
and more recently, Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom.

The Army's senior leadership said it best in their birthday message 
to the force at large. They stated, ''Our sacrifices have preserved our 
way of life, built a better future for others, and led our nation to 
victory over our enemies. We are the best in the world at what we do, 
and because of our values, our ethos, and our people--especially our 
people. Our Army is hugely resilient, professional, and battle-
hardened.'' The men and women I've met in my travels to our bases in 
Iraq and at home in Kansas reassure me that the United States Army is 
still made up of the finest people our country has to offer.

On the anniversary of the United States Army, I encourage everyone to 
take a moment to think about the bravery of our men and women that 
serve. These sons and daughters of America take an oath that could mean 
the ultimate sacrifice. Not a day goes by that I don't think about the 
priceless gift they give our nation, and each day I pray for everyone's 
safe return. Spirit, patriotism and courage shine through in the faces 
of today's members of the Army, in just the same way I imagine it did 
in 1775.

Happy Birthday--U.S. Army!
