---
---

# HONORING MAJOR WILLIAM E. DICKENS
## `856ba86505275f5cd8ae3b47a06a3f7d`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 19 February 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, today, I wish to honor a great 
man and a true American hero.

MAJ William E. Dickens serves as a chaplain in the United States Air 
Force Reserve. In 2005 and 2007, Major Dickens volunteered and was 
deployed to support the ongoing military efforts of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom. He has worked to establish a foundation of support for the 
troops in that region and continues to provide an invaluable service to 
military personnel and their families.

Major Dickens served as the senior Protestant chaplain at Kirkuk 
Regional Air Base in Iraq, providing a comprehensive ministry to more 
than 3,100 troops during his deployment. In 2005, while serving at Ali 
Al Salem in Kuwait, Bill visited more than 5,600 soldiers, sailors, 
airmen and marines. During his service there, he made two convoy trips 
into Iraq to minister to 800 airmen at Camp Bucca who were without a 
chaplain. As the chaplain for the 445th Airlift Wing, Major Dickens has 
spent long hours providing reintegration counseling to service men and 
their families.

For his great service, Major Dickens was chosen as the Reserve 
Officers Association 2007 Chaplain of the Year. The Reserve Officers 
Association is a 70,000-member professional association with 
representatives from all seven of the uniformed services of the United 
States. This honor recognizes Chaplain Dickens' extraordinary 
contributions to the welfare, morale, and effectiveness of the armed 
services.

On the 12th of February, Chaplain Dickens provided the opening prayer 
for the House of Representatives. I ask the House to join me in 
congratulating Major Dickens on receiving this great distinction and in 
offering him our sincerest thanks for his years of service to our 
Nation.
