# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `856f7ec23c051c4a675bde8a577574c0`
`Mr. SANDERS — 10 March 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, the Senator from Arizona has just left 
the floor, unfortunately. But I did want to make two points. He has 
referred to something called the death tax, which is what we call the 
estate tax, which was developed by President Teddy Roosevelt way back 
when. What he forgot to mention is that this estate tax--and as I 
understand it, the Senator from Arizona, if he had all of his wish 
fulfilled would repeal the estate tax completely--benefits only the 
wealthiest three-tenths of 1 percent of the population.

So for all of the concerns about the onerous impact of the estate 
tax, it benefits three-tenths of 1 percent. Mr. President, 99.7 percent 
of the families will not benefit at all from the repeal of the estate 
tax.

The second point is, if the estate tax were completely repealed, the 
estimate is over a 20-year period it would add about $1 trillion to our 
debt--$1 trillion--which, like the war in Iraq, is simply not paid for.

So when people talk about fiscal responsibility, I find it a little 
bit hard to understand how they could dump another $1 trillion into our 
national debt, which benefits only the top three-tenths of 1 percent of 
the population, which means it will be the middle class and working 
families who are obliged to have to pay that off over many years. 
Sometimes when our friends on the Republican side talk about fiscal 
responsibility, I am not quite sure where they are coming from.

I thank the Presiding Officer, by the way, for sitting in for me, and 
as soon as I finish, I will take the chair.

However, I wish to say a budget--and the budget we are debating right 
now on the floor of the Senate--is not just numbers. A budget is about 
the values of our country and the priorities of our country. Within 
that context, it is important to understand what, in fact, is going on 
in America right now.

The simple reality is, the middle class is collapsing. Everybody who 
gets into their car in the morning and pays $3.20 for a gallon of gas, 
then goes to work and finds that they are paying a lot more for their 
health insurance than they used to, understands they don't have a 
pension when at one time they were promised a pension, understands that 
over 8 million Americans since Bush has been President have lost their 
health insurance.

The middle class is in collapse. Wages are going down for tens of 
millions of Americans.

During the Bush administration, private sector job growth has 
averaged less than 50,000 per month compared with over 220,000 under 
the Clinton administration. Since President Bush has been in office, 
from 2001, nearly 5 million more Americans have slipped into poverty. 
Median household income for working-age families is down by $2,500. 
Eight and a half million Americans lost their health insurance. Three 
million lost their pensions. The annual trade deficit has more than 
doubled, and over 3 million good-paying manufacturing jobs have been 
lost. The price of gas at the pump and home heating oil has more than 
doubled, while ExxonMobile made $40 billion in profits last year--more 
than any company in the history of the world. The personal savings rate 
recently dipped below zero--something that hasn't happened since the 
Great Depression. Home foreclosures, of course, are now the highest on 
record, turning the American dream of home ownership into an American 
nightmare for millions.

The reason I raise these issues is, it is important to put the debate 
over the budget in a general context. This is not some abstraction. 
This is not some academic exercise. We are talking about the priorities 
of the American people within the context of what is really happening 
to the middle-class and working families.

I found it interesting that my good friend from Arizona talked about 
the European Union and tried to compare the United States in terms of 
tax policy to other countries. Well, let me also compare the United 
States to some other countries.

Today, the United States has the highest rate of childhood poverty of 
any major country on Earth. We have the highest infant mortality rate 
of any major country on Earth. We have the highest overall poverty rate 
of any major country on Earth. We have the largest gap between the rich 
and the poor, the most people behind bars, and we are the only country 
in the industrialized world not to have a national health care program.

Now, I wonder if my friends who get up and talk about the European 
Union might on occasion mention the kind of health care systems that 
exist in every single one of those countries, which guarantees health 
care to all of their people. Try to describe the types of parental 
leave programs that exist when families have a baby. Americans could 
not understand the extent to which those countries are ahead of us in 
terms of family values.

So while the middle class in this country declines, while poverty 
increases, while we have the highest infant mortality rate of any other 
country, while 17,000 Americans die because they don't have any health 
insurance, there is another reality in American society today, a 
reality that we should also be talking about, and that is the 
wealthiest people in this country have never had it so good since the 
1920s.

According to Forbes magazine, the collective net worth of the 
wealthiest 400 Americans increased by $290 billion last year. Four 
hundred families, $290 billion increase last year, to $1.54 trillion. 
In addition, the top 1 percent now owns more wealth than the bottom 90 
percent.

Sometimes my Republican friends talk about averages and so forth. 
That is not the reality. If you look at the American economy as one 
would look at a football game or a baseball game, the important 
question to ask is, who is winning and who is losing? Well, let me be 
very clear. The middle class is losing. Working families are losing. 
The people on top have never had it so good since the 1920s. They are 
winning, and they are winning big time. To ignore that reality is to 
ignore what is happening in American society.


The question then becomes, given that reality, where do we go from 
here? What we do know is the President has given us his answer. The 
President has brought forth a budget. He has told us that in his 
budget, we don't have enough money to meet the health care needs of 
this country. So at a time when our health care system is 
disintegrating, the President has decided we cannot adequately fund the 
Children's Health Insurance Program and that we should cut Medicare and 
Medicaid by more than $600 billion over the next decade. Think about 
it. The health care system is disintegrating, more and more people 
uninsured, more and more people having higher deductibles and 
copayments. The President's response: Let's make a terrible situation 
even worse.



The President has said in his budget that we need to reduce the 
number of children receiving childcare by 200,000 kids. Any mother, any 
parent understands that our current childcare situation in America 
today is an absolute disaster. We say to single moms, go out and work, 
but we forget to ask what are those moms supposed to do with their 2-
year-olds or their 3-year-olds? Should we leave them home alone in the 
apartment or should we provide quality childcare for them?

Well, in Vermont and all over this country, it is increasingly 
difficult for families to secure quality, affordable childcare, and the 
President's brilliant response is, let's cut the number of children 
receiving childcare assistance by 200,000.

My friend from Arizona said: Are there some people who want to spend 
more money? And I said: Yes, I do. I do not want the children in this 
country to have the dubious distinction of having the highest rate of 
poverty of any major country on Earth, and I would hope that every 
Member of the Senate would be deeply humiliated and embarrassed about 
that reality taking place within this country.

There is a housing crisis all over America--in Vermont and all over 
America--and I am not just talking about foreclosures. I am talking 
about the needs of working families to find safe and affordable 
housing. The President's response in the middle of this crisis is, 
let's provide 100,000 fewer section 8 housing vouchers to low-income 
families.

The President, in his budget, has said there is not enough money for 
special education. We made a promise to school districts all over 
America decades ago. We said: If you mainstream kids--which I think is 
a great idea--we will pick up the very high cost of special education. 
That was the promise. Today, in Vermont and all over America, more and 
more kids are coming in with special ed needs. School districts are 
paying outrageously high property taxes to accommodate those kids. I 
think it is time to keep the promise we made to school districts and 
adequately fund special education. Yes, I think we should do that.

I think we should adequately fund Head Start so all of the families 
in America who want their kids to get a decent start so they are not 
behind when they enter the first grade have that opportunity. But 
somehow, in the midst of not funding the needs of our kids, as well as 
not funding housing, not funding LIHEAP, not funding virtually every 
need of low- and middle-income families, the President does have some 
money available. If you are rich, the President has money available for 
you. The President believes we have enough money to provide $812 
billion in tax cuts for households earning more than $1 million per 
year over the next decade--not for our children, not for the homeless, 
not for the hungry, but for people who are earning over $1 million a 
year.

That is an absurd and obscene sense of priorities. Fortunately, while 
the budget resolution we will be debating this week is not perfect, it 
is a vast improvement over the President's budget. I thank the 
Presiding Officer, Senator Conrad, for his hard work in giving us that 
budget. Instead of cutting back on the educational needs of this 
country, this budget resolution provides $5.4 billion more than the 
President's request for education, including the largest increase for 
elementary and secondary education programs since 2002. Instead of 
cutting back on the needs of our veterans--which has long been the 
history of the Bush administration--this budget resolution provides a 
$3.2 billion increase over the President's budget for our veterans. 
Instead of ignoring the urgent need to reduce our dependence on foreign 
oil and fossil fuels, this budget resolution provides $8.45 billion to 
invest in clean energy, creating millions of good-paying, green-collar 
jobs and energy efficiency.

Instead of cutting back on our Nation's enormous infrastructure 
needs--can you imagine the engineers, civil engineers, telling us we 
have over $1 trillion in unmet infrastructure needs, and this White 
House is refusing to even acknowledge the severity of the problem and 
is asking the cities and towns that are hard pressed to come up with 
the money?

This budget resolution provides almost $9 billion more than the 
President for our roads, bridges, highways, sewers, and clean water 
improvement. It is not enough, but it is a step forward. I think over 
the long term, we can do even better than that. We have made progress 
in this budget, and we can do better.

One area to which I will be paying particular attention is our 
children. It is not acceptable to me, as I said earlier, that we have 
the highest rate of childhood poverty among our children. Where are all 
of those people who keep talking about family values? How do they 
continue to ignore the reality that, by far, we have the highest rate 
of childhood poverty of any major country? Nearly one out of every five 
children in this country lives in poverty. That is not a family value; 
that is a national disgrace.

What happens to these kids when they become adults? Many of them will 
do well, but many of them will not. My colleagues may have recently 
seen an article in many of the papers talking about the fact that the 
United States has more people behind bars, at great expense--great 
expense for States and for the Federal Government--than any other 
country; more than China in total numbers. I happen to believe there is 
a correlation between the fact that we have the highest rate of 
childhood poverty and kids who drop off the wagon when they are young--
they drop out of society, they do drugs, they do destructive activity, 
they end up in jail, and we spend $50,000 to keep them in jail--rather 
than providing the childcare and educational opportunities they need.

In my opinion, there are three major trends in American society that 
we should be addressing in this budget process. First, the fact that 
the United States has the most unequal distribution of wealth and 
income of any major country, and the gap between the very rich and 
everyone else is growing wider.

Second, as I mentioned earlier, we have the highest rate of childhood 
poverty. Third--and I know the Presiding Officer has made this point 
over and over again--we have a $9.2 trillion national debt, which is 
soaring to $10 trillion; that under the Bush administration we have 
seen a $3 trillion increase in the national debt. This is a debt that 
is unsustainable economically, and it is a debt that is immoral because 
we are simply piling it up and leaving it to our kids and our 
grandchildren.

I think those are some of the trends in American society that we 
should be dealing with in this budget. This week, I will be offering an 
amendment which is being cosponsored by Senators Durbin, Mikulski and 
Boxer, which is a very simple amendment. It doesn't go as far as I 
personally would like it to go, but it is a step forward perhaps in 
changing the nature of the debate that we have on the floor of the 
Senate. It puts the needs of our kids, working families, persons with 
disabilities, and senior citizens on fixed incomes ahead of the wealthy 
few. That is what it does.

Specifically, this amendment would restore the top income tax bracket 
to 39.6 percent for households earning more than $1 million per year.

That is the only group of people impacted, households earning more 
than $1 million a year. That is three-tenths of 1 percent of our 
population. We use that revenue to address the urgent unmet needs of 
our kids, dealing with job creation and deficit reduction.

According to the Joint Tax Committee, restoring the top income tax 
bracket for people making more than $1 million to what it was in 2000, 
before the Bush tax breaks for the wealthy, would increase revenue by 
$32.5 billion over the next 3 years, including $10.8 billion in fiscal 
year 2009 alone.

We have a choice in the Senate. We can give $32.5 billion to the top 
three-tenths of 1 percent, or people making at least $1 million a year, 
including billionaires, or else we can do something else with this 
money. Let me suggest we should do something else. Let me suggest that 
at a time when all of the Presidential candidates are talking about 
change, change, change, when the American people want to move our 
country in a new direction, maybe the Senate can begin that journey of 
taking this Nation in a new way that is more equitable, more fair, and 
begins to address longstanding social needs.

Here is the option: $32.5 billion more in tax relief for millionaires 
and billionaires--and I suspect that many of


our friends on the Republican side think that is a great idea--or there 
is another option. It is $10 billion over a 3-year period to go into 
the program of special ed. This will not only allow school districts 
the opportunity to better educate kids with special ed needs, it will 
also lower property taxes and local taxes. Most importantly, it will 
keep the promise that was made to school districts all over this 
country.

The Federal Government made a promise that it would fund 40 percent 
of the cost of special ed. Unfortunately, today we are about at 17 
percent. If you want to raise our credibility, let's keep the promise 
we made to school districts all over America and take care of some of 
our most vulnerable kids. So $10 billion goes to that.

Then this amendment would also increase Head Start by $5 billion over 
the next 3 years. Every study indicates that Head Start works. It gives 
kids, who otherwise don't have the intellectual and emotional 
environment, the chance to do well when they get to school. It is a 
good investment. It is better to invest $5 billion in Head Start than 
it would be in jails.

This amendment would provide a $4 billion increase for the Child Care 
Development Block Grant Program so that working families all over this 
country will have a fair shot at trying to find affordable childcare.

This amendment puts a $3.5 billion increase into the Food Stamp 
Program. In my view, hunger in America is not something we should be 
about. This will take us a small step toward addressing hunger.

This amendment would put $4 billion into the LIHEAP program because 
nobody in America should go cold in the winter or die of heat exposure 
when the temperature gets to 120 and they don't have an air 
conditioner.

This amendment would also provide $3 billion for school construction, 
and it would create good-paying jobs in the process and make sure our 
kids have good schools in which to learn.

Also, this amendment would reduce the deficit by $3 billion. So that 
is what we do. We reduce the deficit, protect our children, and protect 
the most vulnerable people. That is one option. Or we give another $32 
billion in tax relief to people who don't need it. I think the choice 
is pretty clear. I hope this amendment will receive widespread support.

I yield the floor.