---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF MAJ. MICHAEL S. AVEY FOR EXEMPLARY AND DEDICATED  SERVICE IN SUPPORT OF THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
## `857086e38e2d2239972d18f9745788a7`
`Mr. LYNCH — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of an 
outstanding soldier and my good friend, Maj. Michael S. Avey, whose 
exemplary and dedicated service as a Congressional Liaison Officer in 
support of the United States House of Representatives stands as a 
testament to the honor and excellence of the United States Army.

A native of Redford, Michigan, Maj. Avey joined the United States 
Army House Liaison Division in January of 2008, following the 
completion of his one-year post as a Staff Action Officer with the 
United States Army Joint Staff. Maj. Avey's prior military experience 
also includes distinguished service in Bosnia-Herzegovina as part of 
Stabilization Force 8 and deployment in support of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom, during which he commanded the A/2-327th Infantry Regiment with 
distinction. In recognition of his distinguished service, Maj. Avey has 
received several military awards and decorations, including the Bronze 
Star Medal, two Army Meritorious Service Medals, the Ranger Tab, and 
the Combat Infantryman Badge.

For the past year and a half, Maj. Avey has provided exemplary and 
indispensable service to Members of Congress and staff as a 
Congressional Liaison Officer for the United States Army. In addition 
to assisting our offices on all matters relating to United States Army 
practice and policy, Maj. Avey has played an instrumental role in the 
design, development, and execution of Congressional Delegations, 
through which Members of Congress are afforded the invaluable 
opportunity to conduct firsthand oversight of areas of legislative 
concern.

Since joining the Army House Liaison Division, Maj. Avey has served 
as my primary military liaison and escort officer on several 
Congressional Delegations, including site visits to Iraq, Afghanistan, 
Syria, and the Gaza Strip. Accordingly, I have had ample opportunity to 
witness the excellence, professionalism, and pride with which Maj. Avey 
conducts his work and in particular, the extent of his admirable 
commitment to ensuring the safety and security of Members and staff. In 
addition, I have also had the great privilege to come to know Maj. Avey 
on a personal level and can genuinely say that his character never 
fails to reflect the loyalty, honor, and distinction that have come to 
define his service in the United States Army.

Madam Speaker, Maj. Michael S. Avey stands as the personification of 
the United States Army's motto, ''Army Strong.'' On behalf of the 
entire United States House of Representatives, I would like to express 
my deepest and sincerest gratitude to Maj. Avey for his exemplary and 
dedicated service and wish him, his wife, Margaret, his son, Brendan, 
and his daughter, Kate, the best of luck on all of their future 
endeavors.
