---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `857b410474fd3980491bfea0727c3137`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as I may consume at 
this time.

Mr. Speaker, I support House Concurrent Resolution 63, and I want to 
thank our chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, the gentleman 
from Missouri (Mr. Skelton); also, our chairman of the House Foreign 
Affairs Committee, the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos); and 
especially the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Jones), my good 
friend and colleague, as original cosponsors of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Wolf) and Mr. Richard Solomon of the United States Institute of Peace 
for their initiative and leadership to establish what is commonly known 
today as the Iraq Study Group, composed of nationally recognized 
leaders from both political parties, and co-chaired by former Secretary 
of State James Baker and former Congressman and director of the Woodrow 
Wilson International Center for Scholars Mr. Lee Hamilton.

The Iraq Study Group conducted for well over eight months a most 
comprehensive review, in my humble opinion, of the crisis that we are 
now faced


with in Iraq, and I sincerely hope that in the weeks and months to come 
that we here in this body will review seriously its recommendations for 
a resolution to the conflict in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, almost 5 years ago, as a member of the House 
International Relations Committee, I voted in support of the resolution 
which authorized our President to use military force against Saddam 
Hussein and his military regime, for the most critical reason presented 
by our President, our Vice President, our Secretary of Defense, and our 
National Security Adviser, that Saddam Hussein had in his possession 
supposedly nuclear weapons. Our Nation's own national security was 
severely at risk, imminent danger. These were the phrases that were 
used. And besides for other reasons, the nuclear issue was the 
linchpin, in my humble opinion, that convinced many of us on both sides 
of the aisle to approve the resolution to allow our President to wage 
war against Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, our Nation, and especially the American people, have now 
come to realize that Saddam Hussein never had in his possession nuclear 
weapons, due to faulty intelligence and misleading statements made by 
top officials of this administration in order to totally change the 
atmosphere to have the public believe that our number one public enemy 
was Saddam Hussein and not Osama bin Laden.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues, how in the world did we end up in 
Iraq and we have now caused more tension in the Middle East than ever 
before?

As I recalled, Mr. Speaker, our Nation was attacked by some 18 
terrorists, 14 Saudi Arabians, one Egyptian, two from the United Arab 
Emirates, and one Lebanese, on September 11, 2001. None of these 
terrorists came from Iran or Iraq. Most of them were from Saudi Arabia, 
and they were members of a terrorist organization that we now know as 
al Qaeda, and the leader of this terrorist group is Osama bin Laden.

Our Nation was attacked on September 11, 2001. Most of the nations 
around the world not only sympathized with us but supported us, but the 
Congress gave authority to our President to go after Osama bin Laden 
and his al Qaeda organization that was under the protective custody of 
the Taliban, which at the time controlled Afghanistan and certain parts 
of Pakistan.

It is critically important, I submit, Mr. Speaker, that our 
colleagues and the American people need to be reminded on what prompted 
our President, as Commander in Chief, and this Congress, what actions 
our Nation took after our country was attacked on September 11, 2001.

Our government leaders properly identified al Qaeda and Osama bin 
Laden as the perpetrators of the attacks on September 11, 2001, and our 
President and the Congress acted accordingly to summon our military 
forces to wage war against Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda 
organization that was under the protection of the Taliban in 
Afghanistan.

Well, we got rid of the Taliban, and we were successful in 
establishing a democratic government for the people and the leaders of 
Afghanistan, but we did not, and I repeat we did not, complete our 
mission of either killing or capturing the leader who was responsible 
for the attack against our country on September 11, 2001.

The terrorist leader's name is Osama bin Laden, and after almost 6 
years now, the most powerful country in the world militarily, Osama bin 
Laden still has not been killed or captured, let alone the fact that we 
did not complete our commitment in resources and force structure to 
sustain Afghanistan's newly established democratic government.

Now, there is a new escalation of Taliban presence in Afghanistan and 
its ability to wage military operations against us and our NATO allies, 
and the situation in Afghanistan is now becoming more like Iraq, 
needing more troops and resources to fight the Taliban again.

The critical question of why our country decided to wage war against 
Saddam Hussein is one that will be a matter of public debate for years 
to come, but suffice it to say, one, Saddam Hussein did not attack us 
on September 11, 2001. It was Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda 
organization that was based in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan.

Two, our President and his top officials had misled the American 
people and the Congress to state that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons 
of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons. I honestly believe 
that this issue alone was the catalyst and what prompted Congress to 
give the President military authority to force Saddam Hussein to comply 
with U.N. resolutions and to also locate and destroy his alleged supply 
of nuclear weapons.

Three, we may have won the war in Iraq by eventually capturing Saddam 
Hussein, but we have caused more tension and conflict among the rival 
factions between the Shiites, comprised of 60 percent of this country's 
population of 26 million, and the Sunnis, which make up some 20 percent 
of the population, and the remainder the Kurds which, for the most 
part, is not involved in this conflict at this point in time.

I must include, Mr. Speaker, the name of former Army Chief of Staff 
General Eric Shinseki as part of the debate and discussion, if you 
will. General Shinseki, in my mind, was among the first of our military 
leaders who, for making an honest statement as a professional soldier 
concerning the situation in Iraq, was publicly criticized and 
humiliated by civilian superiors within the Department of Defense.

In response to questions by members of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, General Shinseki was asked how many troops it would require 
to take control of Iraq, and his response was something in the order of 
several hundred thousand soldiers. Here was a soldier who fought and 
was wounded while engaged in combat in Vietnam, a most respected 
officer who served with honor and distinction for some 35 years in 
defense of our Nation. Needless to say, Mr. Speaker, I must say, 
General Shinseki's professional assessment of the mismanagement and 
ill-planning of this war in Iraq could not have been more accurate, 
given the sad state of affairs we find our country is in now when 
dealing with Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, the resolution before us is plain and simple. It is a 
clear statement to the American people and to the world that Congress 
absolutely supports the efforts of all the men and women who proudly 
serve in the Armed Forces of the United States. It also sends a very 
simple message to President Bush that his recent decision to send an 
additional number of some 20,000 troops to the war effort in Iraq is 
not going to change the serious security problems and the civil war 
that is now in place between the Sunni and the Shiite factions.

Mr. Speaker, we have fulfilled our mission, our military mission, by 
capturing Saddam Hussein who, of course, now recently was hung by the 
authorities with the new Iraq Government. It is up to the Iraq people 
and their leaders now to determine for themselves a political solution 
to the rights and privileges of the three major factions: the Sunnis, 
the Shiites and the Kurds.

It is a fact that 60 percent of the population in Iraq is Shiite. 
Prime Minister Maliki is a Shiite, and interestingly enough, the 
President is a Kurd.



Now the question is how and in what way the Sunnis are going to be 
part of this newly established government. And there is no denial, Mr. 
Speaker, that for the future the new government will be dominated by 
Shiites, an unintended consequence of our decision to wage war against 
Saddam Hussein, who was a member of the Sunni faction, which made up 
only 20 percent of the population of Iraq. But Saudi Arabia, Jordan, 
Syria, Egypt and the rest of the Muslim world is Sunni. Eighty-five 
percent of the Muslim world is Sunni, we have to understand that, and 
Iran and the Shiite factions in Iraq make up only 15 percent.

I said earlier, Mr. Speaker, and I want to quote again my good 
friend's quotation from Daniel Webster: God grants liberty to those who 
love it, but I say they must also be willing to die for it.

The civil war now taking place between the Sunnis and the Shiites is 
a war not for seeking liberty and freedom, but it is a religious war 
that has been going on for the past 1,400 years. There are never 
winners in religious wars, Mr. Speaker. And no force, not even the most 
powerful nation of this


world is going to change the hearts and minds of the Sunnis and the 
Shiites unless they themselves do so willingly and do it in a political 
way.

Mr. Speaker, I honestly believe that our troops now there and an 
additional number of 20,000 more soldiers that President Bush has 
ordered for deployment in Iraq are going to get caught in the crossfire 
of the civil war that is now going on between the Sunnis and the 
Shiites, a war that can only be resolved only among the Iraqi factions 
themselves and not with our military presence there.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.