---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `858239807e8195f96b5544234730b1f1`
`Mr. STARK — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, I must again make the difficult decision to 
vote ''present'' on the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and 
Iraq Accountability Act.

I support the immediate withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.

I can't in good conscience vote to fund President Bush's War in Iraq. 
This senseless conflict has already taken the lives of more than 3300 
American and tens of thousands of Iraqis. It has undermined the United 
States' prestige in the world, led to the outbreak of a Shiite-Sunni 
civil war, and cost us $379 billion. Those funds--and the tens of 
billions of dollars for the war in today's legislation--would be better 
spent on education, healthcare and other unmet domestic priorities.

Nor can I can vote, however, against a Democratic majority intent on 
taking America's Iraq policy in a new direction. I applaud Speaker 
Pelosi and the Democratic leadership for working toward the withdrawal 
of American troops from Iraq. My Republican colleagues voting against 
today's legislation are doing a disservice to both our troops and our 
security by supporting an open-ended commitment in Iraq. I cannot join 
their opposition to holding President Bush accountable.

My ''present'' vote is therefore an expression of strong opposition 
to the war's continuation for even one more day and strong support for 
the Democratic Congress' attempt to get an arrogant and stubborn 
President to change course in Iraq.

I urge the President to reconsider both his threat to veto this bill 
and his insistence on keeping our troops in harm's way. It is long past 
time for Bush to end a war he should never have begun.