# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `85923e96eacae53213058405e5b63e1f`
`Mr. HARKIN â€” 16 November 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, the farm bill before us was laid down 10 
days ago. Yet during that time we have been blocked from voting on any 
amendments--not one amendment in 10 days. So the majority leader has 
correctly filed a cloture motion in an effort to allow this body to 
offer, debate and vote on amendments and pass this vital legislation 
without further unreasonable delay. The cloture vote, I say to all, is 
pivotal, crucial as to whether we will have a new farm bill this year. 
Everyone knows it. Let me remind my colleagues of what is at stake, why 
it is so critically important that we put an end to the delay and move 
ahead.

The pending legislation stays within strict pay-go budget limits. Yet 
we provide good farm income protection; we promote new economic 
opportunities for farm and ranch families, especially in the area of 
energy production; and we help dairy farmers and especially the 
specialty crop producers all across America. There is more in this bill 
for specialty crops than any farm bill ever passed in the history of 
this country. The bill boosts economic growth, jobs, and quality of 
life in rural America with rural development money in the bill. It 
makes major new investments in conservation of our natural resources, 
to save soil, increase water quality, restore wetlands and wildlife 
habitat. A big part of this farm bill will allow low-income Americans 
to put a little more food on the family table and to improve the diets 
not only of our families but of our kids in school. We also have very 
strong provisions in this bill to help restore our national energy 
security by promoting biofuels, other renewable energy sources and 
rural energy initiatives.

These are just some of the highlights that are in this bill. There is 
much more in the farm bill to benefit rural America and all of our 
Nation. We have come too far with this bill, we have accomplished too 
much to let this vitally important bill languish and stall. In fact, at 
this point, the fate of this bill is in jeopardy--in jeopardy. That is 
why this cloture vote is so critical.


We are at a procedural impasse. We simply cannot obtain the necessary 
cooperation from the Republican leadership. They will not agree to a 
reasonable plan that we debate and deal with relevant, germane 
amendments so that we avoid having the farm bill even further 
sidetracked by becoming a Christmas tree of nongermane, nonrelevant 
amendments, far off the subject of dealing with the farm bill.

I tried--I tried to obtain consent to allow the Senate to debate and 
vote on amendments that Republicans themselves have filed and 
presumably wanted to offer, debate and vote on. I asked unanimous 
consent to bring them up, get a time limit, and vote on them. My 
request was rejected out of hand. We cannot even get consent to adopt 
over 50 amendments that have been agreed upon on both sides for a 
managers' amendment--50 that have been agreed upon. We cannot even get 
consent to adopt those. Now that shows you how unreasonable--how 
unreasonable this lack of cooperation has become.

I certainly hope the situation is not a deliberate and orchestrated 
attempt to stop the farm bill dead in its tracks, but I am beginning to 
wonder. There are enough rumors floating around. When rumors start 
coming from different sources, you know there may be something behind 
them. What I am hearing is that the White House has put out the word 
behind the scenes to stop this farm bill--stop it. Now, why is that? I 
began to wonder.

Well, keep in mind, the White House has issued a statement of policy 
threatening a veto of the farm bill as passed by the House. Then the 
White House issued a threat to veto the farm bill reported by the 
Senate Agriculture Committee. So that means if we pass the bill, if we 
go to conference, we will probably send the White House something they 
said they would veto.

I suspect some of the White House political people said: You cannot 
veto a farm bill. Do you want to lose all of rural America for the 
Republican Party next year? You cannot veto that farm bill. So perhaps 
instead it would be better if the bill never made it to the White 
House. Kill the bill here in the Senate. Kill it here.

I see the heavy hand of the White House behind what is going on here. 
I have worked very closely with Senator Chambliss. We have worked very 
hard to get to this point. We have worked very hard to get a bipartisan 
coalition together. But I detect something else interfering here: I 
detect the White House's heavy hand coming in, telling people what to 
do and what not to do.

The majority leader has done the appropriate thing by filing cloture. 
Now, let me again repeat, cloture does not cut off debate, and it does 
not cut off any relevant, germane amendment to the farm bill. As I 
said, if we vote for cloture this morning, we can have 3 days of 
debate, 10 hours a day. We can have 20 amendments or more debated and 
voted on, plus the 50 we have already agreed upon and others. Plus, 
every amendment that is relevant and germane is guaranteed an up-or-
down vote at the end of cloture. No one will


be denied a vote on an amendment to the farm bill as long as it is 
relevant and germane. If someone wants to add a Christmas tree ornament 
dealing with immigration or foreign relations or the war in Iraq or 
something, yes, that amendment is out after cloture. They will not be 
able to offer that amendment. But that comes down to the question, do 
you want a farm bill or not? Do you want a farm bill or not? It is too 
important to allow a small minority or the White House--maybe people 
here are bowing to pressure from the White House--to hold it up 
indefinitely.

We are falling behind. If we get cloture, we can move ahead 
aggressively. We can come back after the Thanksgiving recess, spend 
about 2 or 3 days, 3 days on the farm bill, and it would pass the 
Senate. We can go to conference, work out our differences, and send the 
bill to the White House. That will not happen if we do not get cloture. 
If we do not get cloture, my friends, there may well not be any farm 
bill.

Now, who has a stake in this? I have a good number of letters here 
with many signatures. I ask unanimous consent to have them printed in 
the Record at the conclusion of my remarks.