---
---

# IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
## `85961ea7fca081a6cc21a2cac33ec7a3`
`Mr. MORAN of Kansas — 16 March 2010`

---


Mr. MORAN of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, Iran's nuclear program is 
progressing at a rapid pace, and absent swift action, Iran could soon 
build a nuclear bomb, putting the United States, Israel, and the entire 
Middle East at risk. The need for Congress to pass strong and 
comprehensive sanctions against Iran is urgent.

Iran currently possesses enough low-enriched uranium to produce two 
nuclear weapons upon further enrichment. Last month, Iran began 
enriching the stockpile of low-enriched uranium to a level of 20 
percent under the guise of needing more highly enriched uranium for 
medical purposes; yet the truth is that Iran lacks the technical know-
how to turn 20 percent enriched uranium into fuel rods needed to 
produce medical isotopes.

Rather than meeting its medical needs, this step only puts Iran that 
much closer to having weapons-grade fuel that could be turned into a 
nuclear weapon. In fact, nuclear experts say this level of enrichment 
represents 85 to 90 percent of the work needed to produce weapons-grade 
fuel. Allowed to continue on this course, Iran could potentially 
complete the enrichment process in a few months at a small facility, 
according to former IAEA action team member and physicist David 
Albright.



The IAEA has also recently raised new concerns about the military 
nature of Iran's nuclear program. In February, the U.N. nuclear 
watchdog agency issued a report that said Iran may be working to 
develop a nuclear-armed missile, adding further evidence that Iran's 
nuclear work is not for peaceful purposes.

If Iran is successful in building a nuclear weapon and fitting it 
into a missile, the entire region will be at risk. Iran already has 
missiles with a range of more than 1,200 miles, which puts Israel, 
Iraq, Turkey, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt, and the Ukraine and many 
other countries within striking distance.

Advancements in Iranian technology threaten nations further away from 
Iran as well. Iran has launched a satellite into space, demonstrating 
that it has the technical capability that may allow it to build 
ballistic missiles capable of hitting American cities.

While nuclear proliferation is dangerous in any context, there is 
greater reason to be gravely concerned about a nuclear-armed Iran. For 
years, Iran has fought American presence in the Middle East and has 
supported terrorist groups that have targeted and killed American 
troops. For example, American officials believe Iran supported the 
group behind the 1996 terrorist attack on a U.S. military residence in 
Saudi Arabia that killed 19 of our servicemen. A nuclear-armed Iran 
would surely put American troops serving in the Middle East today at 
even greater risk.

In addition, Iran's leaders frequently speak of a world without 
Israel. The Iranian President has called for Israel to be ''wiped off 
the map.'' If Iran gets a nuclear weapon, its leader will have the 
capability to do these hateful, destructive things that they speak of.

Americans and Israelis around the world would also be at likely 
greater risk of a terrorist attack if Iran obtains the bomb. Iran is 
already the leading state sponsor of terrorism, funneling money, 
weapons, and training to terrorist groups, including Hezbollah, Hamas, 
and other terrorist organizations. These groups have goals and 
ideologies inconsistent with our American values. Emboldened by a 
nuclear-armed Iran, they may launch even more frequent and deadly 
attacks on innocent civilians.



Clearly, the consequences of a nuclear-armed Iran are intolerable. To 
stop Iran's drive to a nuclear weapon, we must act now and we must act 
decisively. The House of Representatives and the Senate have both 
passed legislation to impose strong and comprehensive sanctions on 
Iran. The Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act and the Comprehensive 
Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act target Iran's 
reliance on foreign suppliers to meet its fuel needs. Although Iran 
sits on top of a wealth of oil and natural gas, it lacks the ability to 
turn much of that oil into gasoline. Consequently, Iran imports 40 
percent of its gasoline needs.

The Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act and the Comprehensive Iran 
Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act offer the best prospect 
of compelling Iran to give up its pursuit of nuclear weapons. 
Congressional leaders must quickly resolve the differences between the 
House and Senate versions of these bills while keeping the teeth of the 
sanctions intact so the President can sign a final bill into law.

At the same time, the administration and like-minded allies should 
impose multilateral sanctions now while also pressing reluctant nations 
to agree to strong and comprehensive sanctions at the United Nations. 
The administration must also enforce current law and levy sanctions 
against companies that violate our laws.

Time is not on our side. The sooner strong and comprehensive 
sanctions are applied on Iran the greater chance we have of preventing 
a nuclear-armed Iran, saving the lives of many, and enhancing the 
security of our own and that of our allies in the region.
