# JOSHUA OMVIG VETERANS SUICIDE PREVENTION ACT
## `859d10b2ca7273967241197dbddc6c0a`
`Mr. LEVIN — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 327, the 
Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act. I am proud to be a 
cosponsor of this important bill.

Estimates indicate that nearly 1,000 veterans receiving care from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) take their own lives each year. 
This should be a clear sign that more must be done to address the very 
serious and troubling issue of veterans' suicide. Many veterans 
continue to return from Iraq and Afghanistan with Post-Traumatic Stress 
Disorder (PTSD) and other mental health concerns, and we must equip the 
VA with the information and resources they need in order to ensure that 
our veterans receive adequate care.

When this legislation was first brought to my attention earlier this 
year, I happened to come across an Associated Press news story about a 
young man from Minnesota who served as a U.S. Marine in Iraq. Upon 
returning home from Iraq, he experienced nightmares and paranoia, often 
re-living his combat experiences in his sleep. On January 11, 2007, he 
told staff at a VA hospital that he felt suicidal. He mentioned this 
again over the phone the next day to VA staff. Despite these direct 
pleas for help, no action was taken, and 4 days later, he killed 
himself in his Minnesota home. He was 25 years old.

H.R. 327 takes a number of important steps towards reducing the 
incidence of suicide among veterans. This legislation directs the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to develop a comprehensive program to 
regularly screen and monitor all veterans for risk factors of suicide, 
set up a tracking and counseling referral system to ensure all veterans 
found to be a suicide risk will receive the appropriate help, and 
provide education and training for all VA staff, contractors, and 
medical personnel who have interaction with veterans. The legislation 
would also provide 24-hour mental health care for veterans who are 
believed to be at risk for suicide, so that veterans could seek 
assistance whenever they need it.

Our Nation's veterans fight for us overseas, and deserve proper care 
when they return home. This includes educating VA staff, veterans and 
their families about PTSD and suicide prevention in order to encourage 
service members to seek mental health assistance when necessary. Now 
more than ever, as service members return home with PTSD and other 
mental health issues, it is essential that we provide adequate mental 
health care that can help prevent suicide among our Nation's veterans.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 327.