---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `85b2998caf91f9490bf97092f8834394`
`Mr. CONYERS — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank our chairman, Mr. Skelton, and I 
stand proud today with my fellow veterans in the House of 
Representatives to register our opposition to the President's plan to 
escalate the war in Iraq and to show our support for our men and women 
in uniform.

Now, last November 7 the American people sent a clear message to 
Congress and the President: we must end the war in Iraq. Now after 
nearly 4 years of bloodshed, death and destruction, Congress is likely 
to go on record as opposing the plan for escalation of this war.

No longer will Congress stand by while the President wages a war that 
defies logic, common sense and human decency. This week we shall take a 
stand. This week, we tell this administration enough is enough, stop 
ignoring the American people, stop ignoring your generals. And by the 
way, I include to the gentleman from New York two speakers ago, General 
Colin Powell, no less agrees with us.

Stop ignoring the foreign policy experts. Stop wasting American lives 
and resources on this disastrous and unnecessary conflict. This week's 
debate on this resolution represents an important turning point in 
public dialogue about Iraq. And so I welcome it, but it is not enough. 
The escalation must be stopped, and we cannot let the momentum against 
the war subside after we deal with the escalation.

Our priority must remain ending the fighting and dying in Iraq. We 
must end the senseless deaths of servicemembers like marine Tarryl Hill 
of Southfield, Michigan, who only last Wednesday died when his vehicle 
drove over a bomb in Fallujah.

Tarryl Hill was 19 years old. He had joined the military to help 
finance his education to become a chemical engineer. I do not want to 
see one more promising life like his extinguished on the altar of this 
administration's arrogance. The loss of Tarryl's life brings to mind 
the bereavement of another patriot from Flint, Michigan, Lila Lipscomb, 
whose 26-year-old son, Michael, died in Iraq in April 2003, when his 
helicopter was shot down.

A member of a military family, Ms. Lipscomb initially believed 
President Bush when he told the Nation that war was necessary for our 
national security. But her son's letters from the front lines and his 
tragic death showed her that he should have never gone to Iraq.

I need to spend a little time explaining my opposition to the troop 
surge, which is simply even more of the same. This policy is going in 
precisely the opposite direction recommended by the generals who get 
transferred if they do not agree.

It would simply expose GIs to more intense door-to-door fighting, in 
the vain hope that in the meanwhile the Iraqis will miraculously 
reconcile with us still being in their country.

The real and underlying question is how we remove ourselves from this 
quagmire. As I have emphasized many times, our Constitution gives 
Congress the central role in decisions of war and peace. Last fall the 
American people spoke loudly with their votes. We should be here 
showing the voters that we heard them and that their trust was well 
placed.

The ultimate, unequivocal authority of the Congress is the power of 
the purse. And so we must use it. Supporters of the President's failed 
Iraq policy have argued that using Congress's spending power to end the 
war means that we do not support the troops. It is beyond absurd to 
suggest that those of us who favor ending funding for the war would 
simply abandon the troops in the field without equipment and the 
supplies they need.

Cliches about supporting the troops are not really about our service 
members' best interests. The true purpose of these accusations is to 
distract us from the fact that we are bogged down in an unwinnable war 
that threatens to drag on for years, if not decades. Keeping our troops 
out of harm's way, especially when war is unnecessary, is the best 
possible way to support them. The American people understand that 
marching ahead blindly into oblivion is no way to support our troops. 
That is why they have asked us to end this war.

Mr. Speaker, the administration continues to live under the illusion 
that it can salvage its reputation by achieving a military victory in 
Iraq, when it is clear that diplomacy is the most effective means at 
our disposal. The recent National Intelligence Estimate reflecting the 
collective judgment of U.S. intelligence agencies only confirms what we 
have seen in the daily headlines for almost a year. It concludes that 
the civil war has reached an intensity that is ''self-sustaining'' and 
that there are no Iraqi national leaders with the ability to stop it. 
No wonder the administration stalled completion of the NIE until after 
the election and the President's presentation of his latest proposal.

Most of the American people know that there is only one way to 
proceed in Iraq. We must begin the phased withdrawal of American troops 
in the next 4 to 6 months and conclude it within the year. Redeploying 
our Armed Forces does not mean ''cutting and running.'' On the 
contrary, we suggest continued and extensive involvement in the region 
through renewed diplomacy, a regional conference and reconstruction 
that is free from fraud and abuse. This sensible path is the only one 
that can lead us to victory.






Announcing the Passing of the Honorable Charlie Norwood
