---
---

# SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT
## `85c1db735a93d94bfb5796f210f678b7`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to be 
recognized here on the floor of the House. I would remark that the 
common courtesy here is to yield. And I'm happy to yield to the 
gentlemen who are here if we could carry on this dialogue with or 
without that particular yielding. I know it is only four to one, so it 
would be an interesting engagement that could take place.

I have to correct a few things on the Record. One of them is, as the 
gentleman from Ohio challenged the mendacity of the Republicans, who 
had said that there is a $4,000 increase on a payroll, that is exactly 
the number you get if the payroll is $50,000 and you tax it at 8 
percent. That is in the bill, Mr. Speaker, and that is a precise 
number, and that is what I sought to offer that could have been 
injected in for an open dialogue.

But we do deal with the facts. It is hard to get those facts when you 
have a bill that is drafted and a bill that has to be drafted to match 
a CBO number. The Congressional Budget Office came out with an estimate 
of a $1 trillion health care plan, and we found out that the 
Congressional Budget Office came out with that number without having 
read the bill, Mr. Speaker.

So we are poised to go down a path by tying a blindfold around our 
eyes and charging off into the abyss of socialized medicine with a $1 
trillion price tag, a little less than that, that is slapped upon a 
bill that nobody has yet, well, I suppose some now have completely 
read, but the Congressional Budget Office did an estimate on the cost 
of this socialized medicine policy over the telephone with the staff of 
the committee of the Democrats, not even a bipartisan staff.

And that is how we make policy in the United States of America? And 
it is adequate to stand here on the floor and utter platitudes about 
what your political philosophy might be?

I think it is interesting that I get to hear the quotes from 
Republicans, John McCain, on cap-and-trade. Well, I can think of the 
time pretty recently that would have been after this particular quote 
that we saw a few moments ago, the time I most emphatically agreed with 
John McCain, and that is when he said that President Obama has more 
czars than the Romanovs. That was something that I think illustrated 
part of the big picture that we should be talking about.

This is a government that is out of control. It is overreaching. It 
is creating the nationalization of industry after industry in this 
country. It is breathtaking, the scope of the reach of this White House 
that is supported by the Democrats in the House and in the Senate. And 
who would have thought--let's just say if we just roll back in our 
memory and our mind's eye back to election day in November of 2008, 
what if somebody would have said, now you're ready to go to the polls, 
think about what you're going to do. Because if you elect President 
Obama, he is going to go in and nationalize three huge investment 
banks, the large insurance company, AIG, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
General Motors and Chrysler. All of these huge eight entities all 
wrapped up together will all be controlled, if not controlling 
interest, in the hands of and in control of the White House.

Then he is going to manage those by appointing 32 czars, and this 
will be hundreds of billions of dollars. And the idea will be that the 
economic stimulus plan is going to be FDR's New Deal on steroids.



And now, never mind that if one goes back and reads the data from the 
1930s from that Great Depression--there was nothing great about what 
people had to go through during that decade of the 1930s. But if one 
goes back and reads the data and tries to index it back to the actions 
of the New Deal and this Keynesian economics of borrowing money and 
trying to actually replace private sector jobs with government jobs is 
what was going on in the New Deal--the CCC camps, the WPA, and the list 
of these acronyms went on. But what it did was it created a lot of 
debt, and it delayed the recovery that would have come from the private 
sector of the economy. It competed directly with the private sector.

One of those examples would be the Tennessee Valley Association where 
there was private-sector investment that was prepared to go in and 
develop just what the TVA turned out to be. And FDR went in and stomped 
on the private sector and grew a government instead.

This is what was the model for President Obama.

So he set forth--and he told us on a day on or about February 10, 
2009, he said that FDR didn't go far enough, that he lost his nerve. He 
got worried about spending too much money. If he hadn't gotten worried 
about spending too much money, the economy would have recovered. But he 
didn't spend enough money and, therefore, along came World War II first 
and became the largest stimulus plan ever.

I don't take issue with the last part of that statement. I just take 
issue with the prediction that the New Deal would have worked if FDR 
would have spent a lot more money.

This President hasn't lost his nerve. He is spending a lot more 
money. And if there is any doubt in anybody's mind about whether 
Keynesian economics and spending borrowed money to dump it in and grow 
government at a time of economic crisis actually heals up the economy--
there isn't any doubt in my mind because I've read the data. In fact, I 
went through every newspaper from the crash of the stock market in 1929 
until the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, reading 
for the economic news so I could understand what people were living 
through during those days of the stock market crash and the deep, long 
trough of the Great Depression and then the shock of the attack on 
Pearl Harbor that launched us into a world war.

I wanted to understand what that was like for the people that lived 
during that period of time. But I couldn't find evidence that the New 
Deal was a good deal on any kind of a broad scale, small little place 
as it was. It bought some friends, sure, but I couldn't find evidence 
that the New Deal worked. And economists that have gone back and 
studied that era can't show you the data that indicates the New Deal 
worked.

But if anybody wonders, they can study this era 25 years from now 
when it will be clear--there won't be any question about, no more 
arguments can be brought up. No future President will be able to say of 
President Obama, Well, his stimulus plan would have worked but he just 
lost his nerve and didn't spend enough money.

This President has not lost his nerve. He has spent way too much 
money, and he has nationalized eight huge entities. He's landed blow 
after blow against the private sector, the free-market economy that is 
the engine that drives this economy, and it sets the economy for the 
world, blow after blow.

And they'll look back at this and they will say, $700 billion in 
TARP, $787 billion in the stimulus plan, untold


hundreds of billions of dollars shoveled out the door of the U.S. 
Treasury to prop up businesses that don't necessarily go through the 
appropriations process here in Congress, the blank check of Tim 
Geithner is being spent. And all of that going on, and this President 
has the audacity--remember, he wrote a book with ''audacity'' in the 
title. This is a President with a lot of audacity. And the audacity now 
to float the trial balloon to call for another economic stimulus plan 
when this one is only partly spent and less than half of it--and we 
don't really know what those numbers are. It's being trickled out and 
it doesn't impact on our economy, and sometimes strung out over a 
number of years.

But yet it was an act of desperation to get it before this Congress 
and pass it quickly because they had to have it to save us from a 
financial meltdown. But they didn't really use the bill in the fashion 
they said. Neither did they use the TARP bill in the fashion that they 
said.

And so this urgency to prevent a meltdown was more what I see in the 
pattern of legislation brought through this Congress. It's the urgency 
of bringing this thing through this Congress before the American people 
figure out what's going on, pass it quickly and get it out of the way 
so it comes out of the public eye. And while that's going on, load up 
another one, put another round in the chamber and fire another one down 
through the floor of the House of Representatives and on over to 
the Senate, another destructive missile that brings down the economy in 
this country, the culture in this country, the spirit of the people in 
this country. This has been an all-out assault on Americanism that I 
have seen in the months that we have had here.


The statements made on this floor that need to be corrected, other 
than the erroneous statement that a Republican had made a--just implied 
at least a willful misstatement. This President's plan and the health 
care, health insurance plan that's being debated in this Congress today 
and tomorrow, has in it an 8 percent tax on payroll, on the employer, 
on the employer's payroll, if he doesn't provide health insurance for 
his employees.

So, an 8 percent tax. When you just think about how that works, let's 
just say there is an employee that's making $50,000 a year and there is 
not a health insurance policy. You can talk about the question of 
whether that's right or wrong. But in any case, there is not a health 
insurance policy.

Under the Obama plan, there would be an 8 percent tax on that 
payroll, 8 percent of $50,000 is $4,000, precisely the number that the 
gentleman from Ohio objected to applies perfectly to a $50,000 payroll, 
which is not that unusual in the United States, and it's becoming far 
and far more common.

So to take issue with a statement that's clearly factual I believe is 
misinformation itself.

And the argument that we are sending--the other gentleman from Ohio, 
Mr. Ryan, said that $700 billion is going to those other countries. And 
the real number--and he's referring to the importing of petroleum 
products from foreign countries. And there were statements made last 
year that we were sending $700 billion to foreign countries to buy 
their petroleum.

Well, those statements that were going out over the media caused me 
to be curious enough that I actually ran the numbers to find out, and 
the real number is this: that over that period of time, over--this was 
the middle of last summer in about July, and in fact July 11 would be 
the date that this statement was initially made. The actual moneys 
expended to purchase imported petroleum, that's natural gas and oil and 
other products that come from oil wells, in their entirety, the actual 
money that we sent overseas during that period of time from July 11 of 
2009 to a year prior to that, that 12-month period of time, was $332 
billion, Mr. Speaker. Not $700 billion. $332 billion.

But we know July 11 was also the peak day for the highest price for 
oil and gas. That's when our gas hit the highest price at the pumps, 
and that's about the same time that crude oil by the barrel hit the 
highest price.

So one could then, last July 11, a year ago July 11, extrapolate what 
we would import if we imported the same number of gallons: $700 
billion. If you work it out and take the gallons and multiply it times 
the highest prices we had, which was on July 11 of 2008, and carry that 
forward, you come with a number projected of $726 billion. But we never 
imported $726 billion because the oil prices plummeted some weeks after 
that and we saw our gas prices go from $4 and change a gallon and they 
dropped to nearly $2 a gallon in a short period of time. That was 
moving up to the election in November.

So at this point, if you look at the most recent data, the number 
hasn't quite reached $400 billion in the amount of imported petroleum 
that we have paid for.

It's still too much, Mr. Speaker, and we can be independent with our 
energy. And we should work in that direction and build the 
infrastructure that allows us to be independent. But we should also do 
it on real data and real facts.

And as the other gentleman spoke about two wars going on--this is 
pretty interesting to me--the lament is still there that we're engaged 
in two wars. These are conflicts that were--let me say this: 
Afghanistan was certainly thrust upon us. And the Iraq situation is 
this: President Obama was elected--at least in part--because he 
aggressively criticized President Bush for going into Iraq and for not 
having an exit strategy.

Well, Mr. Speaker, this House needs to know and the American people 
need to know that Bush had an exit strategy. It was a strategy that 
said we're going to provide victory and we're going to establish a 
stable government in Iraq that reflects the will of the Iraqi people. 
That's what's been achieved there. It really can't be argued today, Mr. 
Speaker, as to whether who won the war in Iraq. Al Qaeda is defeated in 
Iraq. They can't mount a military operation that's there.



American deaths in Iraq, as sad as they are, and every one of them is 
an individual tragedy and every one of them is an honorable patriot, 
and we need to keep them all in our prayers, as well as their families. 
It's been a high sacrifice, but it's also been a noble endeavor, and 
those that we have lost in Iraq in the last year through accidents have 
been almost exactly equal in number to those that we have lost to 
combat, which says that a soldier, sailor, airman, marine that's 
serving in Iraq today has roughly an equal risk of being injured or 
killed in the rollover of a Humvee on one of the Iraqi roads as they do 
at the hands of the enemy. And those numbers are getting--it's looking 
better and better each week that goes by, more stability in Iraq.

And the exit strategy that President Bush devised in Iraq was what I 
said: win the war; establish a stable, moderate government in Iraq that 
reflects the will of the people. And so when we listened to the 
criticism that came from the other side of the aisle here and when 
Speaker Pelosi first was sworn in and received the gavel as Speaker of 
the House of Representatives, that was the 110th Congress. We're in the 
111th now. That took place in January of 2007.

From that moment on, there commenced a series of votes here on the 
floor of the House that were designed to unfund, underfund or undermine 
our troops in Iraq. They, had they passed, and some of them singularly, 
but many of them in their aggregate portion would have brought about a 
defeat in Iraq as opposed to the victory that's been achieved.

That's what's taken place in this Congress, efforts that undermine 
our troops. Still, our troops prevailed and still President Bush had 
the will to order the surge, and still after the surge was executed to 
the fashion that it brought about the result we see today. President 
Bush negotiated this so that we could not be giving up a victory that 
has been so costly and so nobly earned.

And I did look him in the eye on this subject matter, and I know that 
he was preparing this country to sustain the victory that was being 
achieved at the time. And President Bush negotiated the SOFA agreement, 
the status of forces agreement, and it was signed last fall. The Bush 
status of forces agreement was signed last fall, and we find ourselves 
in the ironic situation today, Mr. Speaker, of having a President of 
the United States who was elected, at least in part, for criticizing


his predecessor for not having an exit strategy in Iraq.

But President Bush had an exit strategy, and it's on paper and the 
irony is President Obama is executing President Bush's exit strategy to 
the letter of the SOFA agreement. It's on paper. It's there. It's a 
matter of fact and a matter of action, and it can't be argued. It's 
just simply ignored because these are the people over here that 
wouldn't acknowledge that President Bush could do good unless they 
could put a quote up there that they might think would support their 
cause.

So the quotes from John McCain come up in the same way. They 
criticized John McCain all last fall. Now they put his quote up here on 
the floor and they argue, why don't Republicans listen to John McCain. 
Well, Democrats wouldn't listen to John McCain. If they had, they would 
have voted for him and we'd have a different situation in the world 
today.

Let's see, the Tehran situation and the nuclear endeavor of the 
Iranians is another thing that just befuddles me. As I listened to the 
debate in the previous hour, how it is that they're arguing that we 
have, let me see, we're on the cusp, as the gentleman from Virginia 
said, we're on the cusp of a great economic revolution. This economic 
revolution, the green revolution, I guess, all of these green jobs that 
are going to be created because they passed cap-and-tax on the American 
people out of the House of Representatives.

And we think they're going to get their jobs back after the next 
election. The American people know better than this. They understand 
that when you call it cap-and-trade that it is truly cap-and-tax. What 
they do is cap the amount of energy that you're able to access in the 
United States and identify which forms you can and can't have, and they 
tax the living daylights out of what you do get.

All energy in America will be more costly because of cap-and-tax that 
passed out of this House, and how anybody can think that we're on the 
cusp of a great economic revolution because we're taxing energy is way 
beyond me.

The basic principles of business are things that I had to learn when 
I started a business, Mr. Speaker. And so just think of this as a legal 
pad, and you sit down with a little calculator and you draw a line 
through the middle of the paper, top to bottom. On one side, you list 
all of your expenses. On the other side, you list your income. You add 
up your expenses and you add up your income. You take the total income 
and you subtract the total expenses, and that's your profit. 
Probably never heard that described here on the floor of the House 
before, that simple accounting principle of total income minus total 
expenses is profit. On some of your expenses, of course, are taxes and 
the overhead and the things that people don't think about that people 
in business have to do.


So if any business that you have, if you're running a flower shop, a 
barbershop, an ethanol plant, if you're manufacturing wind generators, 
if you're running a gas station, if you have an operation with a dozen 
carpenters working out of there with hammers and wheelbarrows, all of 
these things going on, this energy tax is going to make your business--
it's going to cost you more.

So over on that column on the pad that you write down on your 
business expenses, when you see that they have passed cap-and-tax on 
you and you look at the cost of your electricity and your heating gas--
and let's see, the natural gas you might use in your manufacturing and 
your diesel fuel you put into your trucks and your heavy equipment and 
the fuel oil that you might heat with and the cost of the coal that 
might be generating the electricity, all of those things add up, and 
they're all part of the expenses of a business. And so if energy gets 
more expensive, so does the cost of running your business get more 
expensive; and the more energy intensive it is, the higher the increase 
as a percentage of your overall expenses and the harder it is to find 
some profit on the other side.

And we are on the cusp of a great economic revolution because this 
Congress can increase the cost of our energy? It takes energy to do 
anything that we want to do. It takes energy to heat a cup of coffee. I 
go over to my office and push the button and make a pot of coffee, 
they're burning natural gas to generate some electricity to create 
enough heat that I can have a cup of coffee. It was coal, but Speaker 
Pelosi switched that around in our power plant here, and because there 
was a real concern that the coal that was burning was putting carbon 
dioxide up into the atmosphere and contributing to global warming and 
she became Speaker, she concluded that we would get away from that and 
we were going to be a carbon neutral Capitol complex.

So Speaker Pelosi ordered that the power plant be converted over from 
coal to natural gas, and so that was done. And some reports show that 
it doubled the cost of our energy, and I haven't actually analyzed the 
numbers. I have to take that at face value. It's a summary report. It 
may or may not have been doubled. It could have been more or less. But 
the cost of our energy went up, we do know that; and still the 
calculation was that we were putting too many tons of CO2 in 
the air annually.

So the Speaker, being true to her commitment to saving the planet, 
true to her commitment, she then went on the board of trade to purchase 
some carbon credits. These would be like, well, selling intentions I 
guess, or indulgences is a better word for it. So you could go on the 
board and buy carbon credits and they're indulgences for the carbon 
CO2 you put into the atmosphere, and it's supposed to be 
offset by somebody else's behavior because you've reached your limit of 
being able to limit the CO2 emissions you have here.

So I tracked that; $89,000 spent on the board of trade to pay 
indulgences for the CO2 emissions that take care of this 
Capitol Building, and somebody had to go sequester some carbon that 
they weren't sequestering before, change their behavior to help the 
planet. This is the equation. Some of the money went to no-till farmers 
in North Dakota, farmers union farmers. In fact, I think that was the 
exchange that was used. Now, we don't have any evidence that these 
farmers just started a no-till because they got a check that was a 
contribution to encourage them to do that.



It's more likely they were with no-till farmers and they were just 
simply rewarded for something they were doing anyway. So we can't 
determine that there was any carbon that was sequestered out of that 
behavior.

And then the balance of the money went to a coal-fired generating 
plant in Chillicothe, Iowa. Now that's a curious thing, Mr. Speaker. 
Think about how this works, that the Speaker of the House concludes 
that there is too much CO2 emitting in the atmosphere 
because of the coal-fired power plant that feeds this Capitol complex, 
and so she switches it over to natural gas because there's less 
emissions from natural gas.

At the time, she said that because natural gas is not a hydrocarbon. 
Well, that didn't last but a day or so, and she finally discovered it 
was.

So I'm not quibbling with her lack of technical understanding of how 
this works. Her conviction is clear; her understanding is not. The 
power plant was converted from coal to gas, and then still the 
emissions of CO2 continued, and we had to get to this zero 
emissions because we were going to be a model for the country.

So that money went to Chicago, $89,000, and they brokered it through 
the exchange and paid some no-till farmers in North Dakota and the 
balance of the money went to Chillicothe, where we're really interested 
to find out what happens at a coal-fired generating plant that you can 
pay them to sequester some carbon, or let's say diminish the effect of 
carbon in the atmosphere.

So I went to visit that plant. It's a well-run plant run by good 
people. It's an outstanding company. I've met with their CEO and had 
engaging conversations. When I visited that day, I stood in the shed 
that had big bails of switchgrass in it. And there was expensive 
equipment that was in there that was designed to pick up and put these 
big round bales--these are 1,500-pound bales--so that high in diameter, 
7 feet or so in diameter.

And there was designed--I didn't see this actually happen: Put them 
on a conveyer belt, run them through a hammer mill, blow them out 
through a tube, and blend this ground-up


switchgrass in with the coal that they were using to generate 
electricity.

That was the plan. And what I saw was--well, switchgrass hay that had 
sat there for 2 years--and nobody had burned any switchgrass in 2 
years. They had tried it, experimented with it. They didn't have any 
data on what they'd learned from burning the switchgrass. But, in any 
case, they stopped doing it so it must not have been a particularly 
lucrative endeavor.

But they got a check cut by the taxpayers and signed by Speaker 
Pelosi--this is figuratively, we understand--because they had 
diminished the CO2 in the atmosphere sometime a couple years 
earlier.

That's what cap-and-trade is. That's brokering these imaginary 
credits that don't create anything exception imaginary sequestration of 
carbon, which in somebody's imagination turns a thermostat down on 
planet Earth.

And of the people that advocate this, the aggressive, vocal 
proponents of cap-and-tax that think the Earth is going to be destroyed 
if we don't go through with their legislation, not one of them can 
explain the science. Not one of them can debate the science on the 
floor of the House. I'd be happy to do that. I have offered that many 
times. If somebody is convicted on the science and they want to come 
down, I'd be happy to yield. Schedule some Special Orders from now 
until the cows come home so we can talk about this science. But it is 
an embarrassment, the science that's underneath this.

I don't take so much issue with the science as I do with the 
economics. They're wrong on the science. They're completely wrong on 
the economics. And people that can get it that wrong, it should be no 
surprise they could get it so wrong when it comes to a health care 
plan.

But here's a couple of things I want to run through as I observe the 
gentleman from Texas has arrived to lend a hand with this endeavor.

What do I have that's entertaining here? Let me just pull this one 
out. There's so much material in this Congress, it's amazing that one 
can get this done in a few short hours of Special Orders.

This mouse has been kind of hard to hold down. He stands on his head 
once in a while.

This is, Mr. Speaker, the saltwater marsh harvest mouse. He has been 
decreed to be a species that needs special help from the taxpayers of 
America. We need to have a stimulus plan that's going to jump us out of 
the deep hole we're in. So, of all the places that we could put money 
to grow this economy, where could it do the most good?

I allege, and others alleged back during this process of the stimulus 
plan, that Speaker Pelosi had set up an earmark in there of $32 
million. Well, the allegations came back, No, that's not true. That 
can't be. There isn't any earmark there. The Speaker wouldn't do that. 
There's a statement that was put out by the Speaker's Office that said 
no.


So what we really end up with now is, we find out yes, it is in 
there; it's just not $32 million. It's $16.1 million. The saltwater 
marsh harvest mouse.

This little pet project right here, this cute little guy, has finally 
arrived to get his particularly special earmark.

And if we look at what Speaker Pelosi said, she said, I don't want to 
have legislation that is used as an engine for people to put on things 
that are not going to do what we are setting out to do, which is to 
turn this economy around.

I don't think I want to read the rest of that.

You're going to turn the economy around by dumping $16.1 million into 
the salt water marsh harvest mouse, this pet project that everybody 
promised that I made this up. It wasn't in the bill. Now it's there and 
no one can refute it, this cute little earmark.

So think of this little guy here. The least they could do is just 
notch his ear a little and put an earmark in that little pet project, 
that salt water marsh harvest mouse. It's going to get $16.1 million 
taxpayer dollars.

That's not as wise an investment as the $89 million that was wasted 
buying the carbon credits to be the little microcosm model of what 
they're doing with the cap-and-tax bill on us. We've got a great big 
model on what they're going to do to us, all Americans, on this 
socialized medicine plan that looks to me like it took HillaryCare and 
wrote in large, in Technicolor, and in 3D.

So, as I take a deep breath, I'd be very happy to yield to my good 
friend, the judge from Texas, Judge Gohmert, so much time as he may 
consume. I know he will use it wisely.