# None
## `85cb19356d28d653abb0ffeb3ddf9f3e`
`Ms. MURKOWSKI — 18 October 2007`

---


Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, Mongolia has made incredible strides to 
improve its relationship with the United States since 1987. Following 
the downfall of communism in that nation, our ties have grown 
exponentially.

Mongolia has worked hard in the past two decades to create a robust 
and strong democracy and the United States has been a partner in that 
effort from its inception.

Although it lies on the other side of the globe and sits between 
Russia and China, Mongolia has long sought close ties with the United 
States, with some even referring to the United States as its ''Third 
Neighbor.''

On the economic front, the United States-Mongolian relationship is 
dynamic and growing with over one hundred U.S. and U.S.-Mongolian joint 
ventures registered in areas ranging from oil exploration, textiles, 
animal husbandry, tourism, mining, and banking. The United States is 
also one of Mongolia's largest sources of foreign investment.

While a large recipient of foreign aid, Mongolia still commits itself 
to giving back to the global community through its significant 
peacekeeping efforts in Africa and Eastern Europe, with personnel in 
Sierra Leone and Kosovo.

Mongolia is also a strong partner in the War on Terror. Mongolia has 
contributed engineers, troops, and medical personnel to Operation Iraqi 
Freedom and has participated in training National Army artillery units 
in Afghanistan. Prior to 2000, Mongolia did not have a national policy 
of deploying forces beyond its borders. Yet they were the first 
coalition country to contribute an infantry battalion to Iraq.

Mongolia's contributions mean a bit more to the State of Alaska. 
Since 2003, we have partnered with Mongolia through the Alaska-Mongolia 
National Guard Partnership. Our National Guard has established broad 
working relationships and increased exchanges with their Mongolian 
partners. They stand side by side with the Mongolian Armed Forces in 
Iraq--in fact, the Mongolian Ministry of Defense specifically requested 
Alaska National Guard support based on Alaska's relationship with their 
nation.

The success that the partnership has enjoyed is a direct reflection 
of the willingness and eagerness on both sides to further our 
relations. The Alaska National Guard tells me that Mongolia is 
enthusiastic about their democratic reforms and is aggressively working 
to meet its goals.

So with 2007 being the 20th Anniversary of U.S.-Mongolia relations, I 
am proud to introduce this resolution marking our ties and the 
significant progress that has been achieved between our two countries 
in that short time frame. I look forward to what the next 20 years will 
bring.
