# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE  UNITED STATES
## `85dafd4393662c30b9ef011f2d44d87d`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong 
support of H. Res. 295.

This resolution recognizes the tremendous alliance that the United 
States shares with the Republic of Korea. Korea has been one of this 
country's strongest allies, both in the international war on terror, as 
well as in expanding free trade. Korea stands as a shining example of 
democracy in action.

In the 11th Congressional District of Virginia, I represent a growing 
and vigorous Korean American population. Korean Americans thrive in 
areas such as business, medicine, law, art and athletics. According to 
the U.S. Census Bureau, Korean Americans own and operate over 130,000 
businesses and employ over 333,000 individuals. These are prime 
examples of their importance in the United States and to the growth of 
our economy. It is clear to me that the strong alliance between the 
United States and the Republic of Korea can be seen everyday in the 
neighborhoods and workplaces right here in the Washington, D.C. area.

The Republic of Korea's strong belief in upholding individual rights 
and liberties serves as an example for the entire Korean peninsula, as 
well as beyond. Korea's 2,300 troops deployed in Iraq and 200 troops 
deployed in Afghanistan indicate not only Korea's support of our 
efforts in ending terrorism abroad, but also illustrate Korea's strong 
commitment to spreading democracy throughout the world. Indeed, Korea 
has been one of our most ardent and unfailing allies abroad.

I encourage my colleagues to support this resolution.