# None
## `85dc3d8f58592fec70253bae0e59bc9e`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. I thank the gentleman from New 
Jersey. I rise in support of the gentleman's amendment from the great 
State of New Jersey. I rise because this debate is personal to me.

Madam Chairman, as a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne Division, I saw 
American heroes at their finest, gaining vital intelligence the right 
way. We have all seen images of what happens when young soldiers are 
left without clear leadership at the top. Simply put, the treatment of 
detainees is a strategic imperative to every servicemember wearing the 
uniform and every American we took an oath to support and protect.

In the first Gulf War, over 100,000 Iraqi soldiers surrendered to 
American forces because they knew that they would be treated humanely 
by the American forces. Thousands who did not hide behind street 
corners with RPGs or IEDs.

The treatment of detainees is what set America apart as a global 
leader, and it is how we begin to restore the reputation squandered by 
President Bush and the tragedy of Abu Ghraib.

Madam Chairman, there is nobody in this chamber who supports the 
vigorous interrogation of suspected terrorists more than me, but it 
must be done the way that reflects the greatness of America and in a 
way that protects our fighting men and women. Madam Chairman, this 
amendment helps do just that.

One of my heroes, General Colin Powell, once said: The world is 
beginning to doubt the moral basis of our fight against terrorism.

Will this amendment fix all our problems? Of course not. But it 
certainly is a start. I urge my colleagues to vote for the gentleman's 
amendment.