# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `85dd5909fb39b87ec4bfc907f4477c52`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. One of the things I would like to ask both of my 
friends to comment on is how the Bush administration has known about 
this problem dating clear back to 2003 when the CBS 60 Minutes story 
aired, and what has happened since that time and what the attitude of 
the administration is in trying to justify it, this veto.

One of the things that we know is that a number of Members of 
Congress and a number of influential Members of Congress in both 
parties were outraged because of the fact that some of these POWs were 
constituents of theirs, and when the White House moved to intervene and 
make sure that these judgements could not be collected, took very 
strong action and took and used very strong language to try to convince 
the administration not to do this.

One of those individuals is someone we all know who is the current 
majority leader of the Senate, Senator Harry Reid from Nevada. And when 
this story aired in November of 2003, Majority Leader Reid said, I hope 
George Bush, the President of the United States, doesn't know about 
this because if he knows about it, if he knows about it, it is a pox on 
his house, his White House. This is wrong.

Well, that was in 2003. And now we are 5 years later. There can be no 
doubt that this President knew what he was doing when he issued this 
veto, and yet when his press secretary has been questioned as to why 
the administration felt the need to take away the rights of victims of 
torture to full and fair compensation, they say the same thing over and 
over again which is, no amount of money could compensate these victims 
for their terrible injuries.

Well, when the judge who heard this case issued his decision awarding 
damages, he noted that, and yet that's not what this case is about. 
This case is about putting some measure of value on what these torture 
victims went through, what their families went through who were 
watching these shots on TV of their loved ones, who were hearing these 
tales of torture and fearing for the lives and safety of their loved 
ones. Why would our government, why would our President say that the 
value of the Iraqi people was greater than the value of these tortured 
Americans? That's what the fundamental question is we are here to talk 
about tonight.

And I would yield to my friend from Minnesota.