# None
## `85de6c43256de4fd39b64939ef33eb8a`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Madam Speaker, House Resolution 741 provides 
for the consideration of House Resolution 734, expressing the sense of 
the House of Representatives regarding the withholding of information 
relating to rampant corruption in Iraq, corruption that is being used 
with taxpayer money from our country. The rule provides for 1 hour of 
general debate controlled by the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform.

Resolution 734 expresses the explicit sense of the House that the 
State Department, our State Department, has abused its classification 
authority by withholding from Congress and the American people 
information about the extent of corruption in the Maliki government. 
The resolution further condemns the State Department for retroactively 
classifying documents that had been widely distributed previously as 
unclassified and by directing State Department employees not to answer 
questions in an open forum.



Madam Speaker, we are in the fifth year of this war. We have lost 
over 3,700 of our best young men and women. By the time this war is 
over, many experts anticipate that the cost to the taxpayers will 
exceed $1 trillion. General Ricardo Sanchez, a retired commander, last 
week described the situation in Iraq as an absolute nightmare with no 
end in sight.

This war started on the basis of bogus information: the threat of 
weapons of mass destruction that did not exist. Hard questions that 
should have been asked weren't asked. The war continued for years, 
until November of 2006, with a Congress that was a rubber stamp for 
whatever it was that the executive agencies wanted. Those days are 
over.



The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has been pursuing 
relentlessly article I powers of this Congress to accept its 
responsibility on behalf of the citizens of this country to ask 
questions and get answers; yet the State Department is refusing to 
allow relevant information to be disseminated to the members of that 
committee.

Madam Speaker, let me go through the history. On October 4, 2007, the 
Oversight and Government Reform Committee held a hearing regarding the 
extent of corruption within the Iraqi Government. David Walker, the 
Comptroller General of the United States, and Stuart Bowen, the Special 
Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, testified that entrenched 
corruption in the Iraqi Government is actually fueling the insurgency, 
undermining the chances of political reconciliation, which, 
incidentally, was the whole point of the surge strategy of General 
Petraeus, and that this corruption is, in fact, endangering our troops.

The former Commissioner of the Iraqi Commission on Public Integrity, 
Judge Radhi Hamza al-Radhi, testified that his own investigation 
documented at least $18 billion in money stolen by corrupt officials. 
He stated that Prime Minister Maliki personally intervened to prevent 
the investigation from continuing.

Each witness that day provided evidence suggesting that corruption 
within the Iraqi Government was tantamount to a second insurgency. 
Specifically, David Walker testified that widespread corruption 
undermines efforts to develop the government's capacity by robbing it 
of needed resources, some of which are used to fund the insurgency 
itself. Similarly, Mr. Bowen testified that corruption in Iraq stymies 
the construction and maintenance of Iraq's infrastructure, deprives 
people of goods and services, reduces confidence in public 
institutions, and publicly aids insurgent groups reportedly funded by 
graft from oil smuggling or embezzlement.

Judge al-Radhi testified that corruption in Iraq today is rampant 
across the government, costing tens of billions of dollars, and has 
infected virtually every agency and ministry, including some of the 
most powerful in Iraq. He further stated that the Ministry of Oil is 
effectively financing terrorism.

Madam Speaker, after hearing this testimony, which can only be 
described as shocking, the Oversight Committee heard from Ambassador 
Lawrence Butler, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State. Members of the 
committee asked the obvious questions, very simple, very 
straightforward: A, whether the Government of Iraq currently has the 
political will or the capability to root out corruption within its 
government; B, whether the Maliki government is working hard to improve 
the corruption situation so that he can unite his country; C, whether 
Prime Minister Maliki obstructed any anticorruption investigations in 
Iraq to protect his political allies. Simple questions; no answers.

Ambassador Butler refused to answer any of these questions at the 
hearing because on September 25, 2007, 7 business days before this 
hearing, the State Department instructed officials not to answer 
questions in open setting that called for, basically, answers. In the 
jargon of the State Department, you couldn't answer a question that 
called for ''broad statements or assessments which judge or 
characterize the quality of Iraqi governance or the ability or 
determination of the Iraqi Government to deal with corruption, 
including allegations that investigations were thwarted or stifled for 
political reasons.''

It is astonishing; $1 trillion, over 3,700 lives, a war that has no 
end in sight, that was based on misinformation. Now, with billions of 
dollars gone missing, no one is disputing this is as a result of 
corruption, not just bad decisions. The State Department is directing 
the people who have answers to deny answers to Congress and to the 
American people.

Madam Speaker, the thrust of this resolution is very simple. It is 
whether Congress has the right and the will to demand that it get 
answers on behalf of the American people about this most catastrophic 
foreign policy blunder.

In addition to preventing officials from answering questions about 
the corruption in Iraq, the State Department retroactively classified 
two reports written by the Office of Accountability and Transparency, 
one of the two primary entities established by the State Department to 
lead U.S. anticorruption efforts. So we turned the Office of 
Transparency into the ''Office of Obscurity.''

These reports were initially marked ''sensitive but unclassified,'' 
and they suddenly, by fiat of the State Department, became 
''confidential.'' The State Department also retroactively classified 
portions of a report that was released and distributed at that October 
4 hearing by Comptroller Walker. It addressed the commitment of the 
Iraqi Government to enforce anticorruption laws.

As a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I and 
my colleagues witnessed firsthand the State Department's absolute, 
adamant, willful, and really intransigent refusal to testify about 
Iraqi corruption. That is why the committee believes so strongly in the 
support of this resolution.

The resolution states in very simple and plain language what every 
American, I think, believes they are entitled to. One, it is essential 
that Congress and the people of the United States know the extent of 
corruption in Iraq. Two, it was wrong, not right, but wrong, to 
reclassify documents that are embarrassing but do not meet the criteria 
for classification. Three, it is an abuse of the classification process 
to withhold from the American people broad assessments of the extent of 
corruption within the Iraqi Government. Four, the directive issued by 
the State Department on September 25, 2007, prohibiting its officials 
from discussing the state of Iraqi corruption should be, indeed must 
be, rescinded.

Madam Speaker, corruption within the Iraqi Government is 
unacceptable. It undermines the efforts of this country; it undermines 
the efforts of the honest people in Iraq to build a civil society. We 
have no recourse but to demand from the State Department that they tell 
us the facts and not withhold them because they are embarrassing and 
don't serve what has been a self-serving and misguided policy since its 
inception.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.