---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `85ec4a23bdb74643aef11810df9ba4ad`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Chairman, I appreciate the gentleman's 
courtesy, his leadership, that of the subcommittee Chair, and, of 
course, my friend and the lead sponsor of this legislation, the author, 
Mr. Price. I think there is no more conscientious and thoughtful 
legislator, and he has approached this in a very nonpartisan, 
methodical way.

Madam Chairman, I am concerned as I am listening here. I want to say, 
first of all, that I hope this is the first of a number of provisions 
that we have that deal with the netherworld of contracting and 
outsourcing this war. I think there are lots of opportunities to 
tighten down, to focus, to add accountability. But this is an important 
essential step. It is simple, and it should not be nearly as 
controversial as my friend from Virginia appears to make it.

First of all, I have heard him about 10 times talk about how somehow 
this is narrowing the scope of MEJA. Look at page 2 of the bill. It 
doesn't take anything away. It adds provisions. It adds provisions.

The notion somehow that we are not dealing with the problem in 
Germany I think misstates and betrays a lack of understanding about the 
difference between operations in a stable, established country and one 
that is in the theater of military operations. If somebody commits a 
crime in Germany, there will be an opportunity for that government to 
be able to deal meaningfully with it. That is not the case with a rogue 
contractor in Iraq, in a field of battle who shoots somebody and there 
is no established mechanism. It is absolutely apples and oranges.

I find curious an argument from our friends on the minority side that 
this cost a few million dollars to the FBI and there is no funding 
attached. This is the same party that for the last 11 years out of this 
committee, when they were in charge, had a litany of proposals that 
added costs to the judiciary and the FBI and the corrections system and 
never blinked an eye over burdening them.

This is a modest adjustment. It is within the scope of their duty. I 
strongly urge its approval.

