---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `85ee23ffcaa67a633b593b7d38f4dd07`
`Mr. ARCURI — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

H. Res. 545 provides for consideration of the supplemental conference 
report, legislation that supports our military in the field in both 
Iraq and Afghanistan. This spending plan provides our troops with 
everything they will need during the remainder of this fiscal year, and 
the President has said this will be the last supplemental spending 
request he will send to Congress. I hope this will be the case.

I, along with a majority of my colleagues, share the President's goal 
of winding down the war in Iraq and leaving behind an Iraq run by 
Iraqis. This conference report takes a step towards that goal by 
providing for the training of security forces, economic development, 
and diplomatic operations.

We are also looking to secure Afghanistan, and this conference report 
provides for training of Afghan security forces and counterinsurgency 
measures in bordering Pakistan.

Although there are no deadlines or timelines in this conference 
report, I think we share in the desire to have troops wrap up their 
missions abroad and return home to their families. It's my hope that we 
will see the beginning of that troop drawdown this year.

This report also provides for a few key domestic economic priorities 
like the Cash For Clunkers program, which will allow Americans to trade 
in old vehicles for new ones with higher fuel efficiency.

This conference report also includes $1.5 billion for response to the 
swine flu pandemic to help State and local governments but also to fund 
global efforts to track, contain, and slow down the spread of this flu.

Although it is not perfect legislation, it provides some essential 
funding, and I will support it and urge my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.