# UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUESTS
## `85f9206adcedb1b530788b4b878a1a87`
`Mr. REID — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I have told the distinguished Republican 
leader that when we get to the matter dealing with implementing the 9/
11 recommendations, that will be a vehicle which will be open to debate 
and amendment.

The unanimous consent request I propounded would complete work on the 
Iraq surge issue within a matter of hours, as I indicated, so that we 
could move within a day, 1 day, to 9/11 and amendments--Warner, Gregg, 
McCain, whatever amendments the minority wanted to offer; they would 
certainly be permitted to do that.

We find ourselves in a very unusual position, Mr. President. We tried 
to proceed to this matter before. Everyone has heard the arguments used 
to stop us from going forward on this issue. Cloture was not invoked. 
We need not go over all the reasons, some of which have been outlined 
by the distinguished Republican leader just a few minutes ago. But 
there have been those on the other side of the aisle who think we 
should be in next week. Mr. President, speaking for this Senator, I am 
happy to be in next week. If you want to be in next week, we can do 
that. I have things in Nevada I have wanted to do for a while because I 
have been here for 5 weeks, but that is OK, I can take care of that, as 
everyone else can, if necessary. But we find ourselves in the same 
position, that there is a hesitation on behalf of the minority to go 
forward on now a very simple matter--a very simple matter.

The Warner-Levin amendment was a little more complicated than the 
simple House measure which says we support the troops and we are 
against the surge. That is what we think should be disposed of quickly. 
We can move to 9/11, all the debates on other things people want to do 
with Iraq and other issues. Certainly, they can do that. We can spend 
considerable time on that. As long as progress is being made, there is 
no reason to file cloture. There are other things we need to do the 
following week during the work period.

We are anxious to go forward on this issue. We have, again, been 
stopped from doing that. All the plaintive cries about not being able 
to debate Iraq--there were opportunities to debate Iraq, and they were 
turned down. I was disappointed, as I said earlier today, that the 
people crying the loudest are the people against going forward on Iraq.

It is my understanding, Mr. President, that the order is Senator 
Leahy has 1 hour right now.