---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `860092aebad8439073619fb6f129ae15`
`Mr. GRASSLEY — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, previous to Senator Baucus speaking, we 
heard my friend from Massachusetts harangue about minimum wage not 
being considered for the last 10 years and that it is about time we get 
the job done. I am going to be one of those to vote yes to get the job 
done, to increase the minimum wage. But I think it is legitimate to ask 
a couple of questions. One, there was a period of time during that 10 
years that Senator Kennedy's party was in the majority and controlled 
the Senate. I don't recall them bringing up the minimum wage issue at 
that particular time. If it was so important that it be done before 
this period of time has elapsed, I would have thought they would be 
voicing concern about raising the minimum wage as much and have a 
responsibility to do it when they were in the majority, as it is now; 
and we are accused because we want to amend some tax provisions to it, 
which are very directly related to some of the negative impacts of 
increasing the minimum wage on small business, and it is a very 
legitimate point to bring up.

The second point I will bring up to the Senator from Massachusetts 
is, when he talks about adding tax provisions to the minimum wage, has 
he forgotten that during the signing ceremony of the last increase in 
the minimum wage bill by President Clinton Senator Kennedy was praised 
for bringing a bill to the President that had tax provisions that were 
very beneficial to small business and also other provisions that were 
very beneficial to minimum wage workers by increasing the minimum wage?

I read from President Clinton's statement last week during the 
debate. I know Senator Kennedy heard me say that. And yet it seems like 
it went in one ear and out the other because here he is saying it is 
wrong now, that when we are increasing the minimum wage, we have a 
small business tax provision included with the minimum wage increase.

It makes me wonder if there is a double standard: It is okay to have 
tax bills connected with a minimum wage increase when there is a 
Democratic President, but when there is a Republican President, it is 
not okay. I don't think we ought to have those sort of double 
standards. I think if it is okay


in the case of a Democratic President, it ought to be okay in the case 
of a Republican President.

Plus, I could raise the issue that if it is legitimate to have tax 
changes to benefit small business at the same time we are having 
increases in the minimum wage, this tax package is very meager compared 
to the one that was in the bill that President Clinton signed. At that 
time, I believe, there was about $20 billion worth of small business 
tax changes to benefit depreciation and other things that can offset 
the detrimental impact on a minimum wage increase on small business.

We all know there is no detrimental impact on larger businesses that 
can pass along the cost. But for smaller businesses that can't, for 
struggling small businesses, in particular mom and pops, it has to be 
something we take into consideration not only for the benefit of the 
smaller business but also for the benefit of the workers who work for 
that small business that maybe will be more underemployed or unemployed 
because maybe the small business can't afford to keep the same number 
of workers as when the minimum wage was lower. So all of these things 
seem to me to be legitimately tied together.

But in the case of a $20 billion tax package 10 years ago, compared 
to an $8 billion tax package in this bill, and considering inflation 
over the last 10 years, there isn't a single person listening to this 
debate who doesn't know that when there are complaints about connecting 
together a tax bill with a minimum wage increase, compared to the last 
time this was done in the Clinton administration, this tax package is 
peanuts compared to what we did for small business then--peanuts. Yet 
we are having this harangue about it, that somehow this debate is not 
legitimate.

Well, if it was legitimate in the Clinton administration, why isn't 
this debate legitimate now, particularly considering the great lengths 
to which President Clinton went to compliment Senator Kennedy for 
delivering a bill to President Clinton that had provisions benefiting 
small business, as well as benefiting the minimum wage worker?

We are going to get a bill passed. I don't know who is complaining. 
What is coming up when we get done? Well, of course, the debate, I 
suppose, on Iraq is going to come up. And it ought to come up. We know 
what is coming up. We know there is not going to be any more votes on 
that issue this week. So if we get this bill done today or tomorrow--
and I bet it will be done today--then we know that is probably going to 
be the last vote of the Senate this week. I think the people on the 
other side of the aisle who are managing this bill know that. They know 
when we get a couple of votes on a couple of other tax provisions, that 
it is limited. We know there is finality coming. There hasn't been any 
effort by anybody on this side of the aisle to hold up this bill, 
except to make sure that the impact of the minimum wage increase on 
small business is going to be considered the same way it was in the 
previous administration.

I am very happy that yesterday cloture was invoked on the Baucus 
substitute amendment, and it contains these two very important 
components about which I have already talked. For summary, in case 
people are now beginning to pay attention to this debate after 1 week 
in the Senate, the first component proposed an increase in the minimum 
wage.

You can make all sorts of arguments why maybe the minimum wage should 
not be increased. Economists can make that argument about some increase 
in unemployment. Some people would say you should never have passed the 
minimum wage in the first place in 1938. But forget those economic 
arguments. It is a political decision that we have had a minimum wage 
for the last 70 years, and it has to be a political consideration that 
it ought to be increased from time to time or you shouldn't have it.

So let's get over that argument, as legitimate as the economic 
arguments might be. They are going to be put aside because we are not 
going to eliminate the minimum wage. It is a part of the safety net of 
American society. It is part of the fabric of our society, just as 
Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. You can all argue about 
whether seven decades ago some of these decisions should have been made 
by Congress. But after a period of time, you accept it as a fact of 
life; they are part of the social fabric of America, and move on. It is 
a question now of how much.

That decision has even been answered--$2.10. It is about the same 
decision that is being answered in several State legislatures around 
the Nation, including my own State of Iowa, which now has made a 
decision that it ought to be $2.10, albeit triggered a little quicker 
than is going to be done under this bill. So we move ahead and that is 
taken care of.

The second component is not seven decades old, as I indicated. The 
Baucus substitute connects these efforts to assist small business with 
some changes in the tax law to benefit them. It has only been in the 
recent two decades that that has been an issue. But at least it 
recognizes something that maybe wasn't recognized before; that small 
business is the engine of employment in America and it ought to be 
recognized that, in some instances--and economists can back this up--
there is some underemployment or unemployment, particularly among young 
people, and most particularly among minority young people.

I think it is legitimate to consider that because we make a great 
deal in this Congress about having programs for the unemployed, such as 
retraining. We make a big deal about education, vocational education, 
and preparing people for the workforce. But do we ever stop to think of 
something that doesn't cost the taxpayers one penny? And that is that 
vocational education goes along with a young person getting the first 
job that they have ever had so that they learn to get up in the 
morning, go to work, and be part of the workforce.

If you are not in the workforce, you are never going to work your way 
up the economic ladder. So getting in the workforce, learning the rules 
of the workforce, treating people right, taking orders, being a 
productive citizen is very important vocational education. So if we are 
creating some unemployment, particularly among minority young people, 
because of a decision we are making, a political decision we are 
making, we ought to at least take that into consideration. But for two 
decades now we have considered that there is some negative impact.


There is not going to be a one-for-one correlation between changes we 
make in depreciation schedules for small business that is going to 
guarantee Joe Blow or Mary Smith, teenagers working for a mom-and-pop 
grocery store, that they are going to be able to keep their jobs. But 
it is some relief across the board that is going to benefit small 
business, and there may be less unemployment of teenagers, less 
unemployment of minority teenagers so that they can get in the world of 
work and work themselves up the economic ladder. So the Baucus 
substitute is before us and will pass this body.

Despite serious policy concerns about the efforts to raise the 
minimum wage, we all know that public support for increasing the 
minimum wage remains strong. And who can argue with that? Ten years? So 
there is a rationale for raising it. It is pretty hard to convince 
anybody that as long as Congress is setting a minimum wage, it 
shouldn't be adjusted from time to time. So it is quite obvious. That 
is why we are here for that debate. So the political reality is that a 
majority of Senators support a minimum wage increase, not based upon 
being trustees of the American people but based on the proposition of 
being representatives of the American people. And that message is 
coming very clearly from the grassroots.

As predicted, the cloture vote last week showed there are not 60 
votes for this minimum wage bill without the small business tax 
incentives. And for Senator Kennedy, who is haranguing about the fact 
this is not being passed fast enough, the members of his own party 
voted with us on that, and that seems to show it is bipartisan.

As I said before, tax incentives targeted to small business and other 
businesses impacted by a minimum wage increase have been linked to 
minimum wage legislation over the past couple of decades. Democrats 
have, at times, joined Republicans in supporting that linkage. Once 
again, Republicans have asked for small business tax relief, if a 
minimum wage hike is going to happen. Based on an overwhelming cloture


vote yesterday on this Baucus substitute, it looks as if we are going 
to get there. Democrats, in effect, agree--through that vote--with this 
linkage.

To different groups of Senators, these topics carry their own 
benefits or burdens. Many on my side don't like the idea of second-
guessing the labor market with a federally mandated minimum wage. In 
past statements, I pointed out some of the related issues that should 
give us pause when considering such legislation. Some, mostly 
Democrats, will call this bill before us nothing but a minimum wage 
increase bill. Some, mostly on my side of the aisle, will call it a 
small business tax relief bill. But isn't that how we get things done 
in the Senate? Doesn't almost everybody have to have a win? And in this 
aren't we having a win-win situation in a bipartisan way?

I suppose some of our Members are going to have it both ways, it is 
going to be both a minimum wage increase and a small business tax 
relief bill. President Bush, similar to President Clinton, whom I have 
already quoted, will recognize both parts of this package. If my 
friends on the other side of the aisle would review that statement, as 
I led them to review it last week, they will note that President 
Clinton saw merit in the small business tax relief package.

If I were chairman, I might have tilted the package a bit more toward 
depreciation and less toward, let's say, that portion that we call the 
worker opportunity tax credit. It is important these incentives 
coincide with the timing when the minimum wage increase will be taking 
effect. It has been proven that a minimum wage hike without tax relief 
for small business will not fly in a body where we have to move ahead 
in a bipartisan way or nothing gets done. Let's recognize that reality. 
Let's improve this bill and complete it in a timely manner.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.