---
---

# None
## `8602c03c29a3cf6ef839b9ddb136b945`
`Mr. KYL — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I am a little confused. About an hour and a 
half ago the majority leader brought up a bill. He and the Senator from 
Wisconsin had filed this bill to leave Iraq in 120 days. And he filed 
cloture on that to see whether enough Senators would agree to debate 
the bill. So that we can start to debate it, it took 60 Senators to 
vote yes. The majority leader must have been surprised when we voted 
yes because he does not seem to want to take yes for an answer.

He filed the bill, wanted to debate it, and presumably have a vote on 
it. But when we agreed to debate it, he called foul and said: You are 
trying to stall because you did not vote no so that we can move on to 
the next bill and then the next bill which will be the economic 
stimulus package.

So I am confused. Maybe I should not be because almost half of the 
members of the majority voting voted against cloture; that is to say, 
they voted against proceeding to the bill that the majority leader had 
filed. Now, ordinarily members of the majority do not vote against 
these cloture motions that the majority leader files to take


up a bill. Ordinarily, all of the members of the party vote with their 
leader on these votes.

I gather that the majority leader must have thought that the bill 
would not get cloture; that is to say, that we would not start the 
debate. Then I suppose Republicans would be accused of trying to stall, 
of not being willing to vote on the bill that he and the Senator from 
Wisconsin had filed, maybe putting Republicans into a no-win situation, 
damned if we do and damned if we do not.

If we agree with the majority leader and take up his bill to debate 
it, we are stalling. And if we do not agree, then I suspect we would 
have been accused of not being willing to debate Iraq and not being 
willing to vote on the amendments or the bill that he and the Senator 
from Wisconsin filed.

So as I say, I am confused. All Republicans did was to say: OK, you 
wanted to debate the bill that you filed. We will agree to proceed with 
that. Now the distinguished minority whip just said Republicans are 
speechifying this to death. Well, Republicans have spoken about 5 
minutes out of the last hour. All of the rest of the time has been 
taken by members of the majority party. The majority whip himself 
spoke, I think, a little over half an hour. I do not intend to take 
that long.

But I think it is hard to accuse Republicans of speechifying the bill 
to death when all we did was, an hour and a half ago, agree to debate, 
and the minority leader has spoken a total of about 5 minutes. Do you 
want a debate on Iraq or not? Now that the surge is working, it appears 
maybe that members of the majority party are not so anxious to have 
that debate.

But as Minority Leader McConnell pointed out, Republicans are willing 
to have that debate. A group of Republicans were just in Iraq over the 
course of the last week. Several of us have been there since the first 
of the year and have a very positive story to report about the work 
that our troops are doing there and the effect of their efforts.

There is a positive report that the American people deserve to hear. 
So I think you will see Republicans agreeing to debate the resolution. 
For my purpose, I am perfectly happy to vote on it. But under the rule 
that the majority leader has taken advantage of, as soon as we have had 
30 hours to debate this, then automatically we go to the next Feingold-
Reid bill.

That is a bill that does not have us get out of Iraq, but rather says 
we should try to develop a strategy to deal with al-Qaida. Well, of 
course, the administration's first strategy, as we have discussed on 
this floor many times, the first, best way to deal with terrorists is 
to get good intelligence on them to know what they are up to. Maybe we 
could have prevented 9/11 had we had better intelligence. And so the 
FISA--this is the law that allows us to listen in on the communications 
of these terrorists--that bill, that law expired.

The President said: We are losing good intelligence. You need to act 
to reauthorize that law.

The Senate did. I think we had 68 votes, a bipartisan vote. We acted 
in a bipartisan way to support that. Many of our colleagues, I think it 
was 28 or 29, voted to oppose that. Now the leadership of the House of 
Representatives has said: Well, let it expire. And they went on the 
break 12 days ago without having acted to reauthorize the so-called 
FISA law.

That law needs to be reauthorized. Each day that passes that it is 
not reauthorized, we are losing intelligence. Now, what happens if 
there is another 9/11 and we later find out that one of the reasons is 
because for a period of several weeks we could not listen in to what 
those terrorists were saying? We are missing intelligence.

Frankly, we ought not to do anything else around here until we get 
that law reauthorized and the President can sign it into law. But the 
majority leader said: First, we are going to have a debate on the 
Feingold-Reid bill to get out of Iraq in 120 days. Then we need to have 
a debate on developing a new strategy for dealing with al-Qaida.

Okay. Republicans are happy to engage in that debate, as I said. But 
to be accused by the majority of trying to stall by simply agreeing to 
the debate that the majority requested, is not correct.

Moreover, nobody is trying to stall consideration of a housing bill 
or an economic stimulus package. We understand that the majority is 
going to be bringing such a package to the floor. We have not seen it. 
We do not know what is in it. We are certainly not stalling it. It is 
not here yet. The majority leader could have brought that to the floor. 
He could have told us what is in it. He could have filed cloture on it 
so that we had the vote on whether we are going to take it up, but 
instead he brought up the first Iraq resolution. Then that is going to 
be automatically followed by a second resolution dealing with al-Qaida. 
Then, only after that, apparently, do we get to the economic stimulus 
or housing package.

So it is not Republicans who are holding it up. We have not done 
anything to hold it up. We have not even seen it yet.

So I think this criticism of Republicans for stalling simply because 
we agreed with the majority leader to take up his bill and debate it is 
not accurate, and it is not fair to Republicans.

Now what about the surge and this Iraq resolution? I think it is 
interesting that the first criticism was that we had a failed policy in 
Iraq. So when General Petraeus developed a new policy, the surge 
policy, which began to work, the debate suddenly began to shift. Now 
that it is very clear the surge has worked it is shifting even more. It 
is shifting now to, well, OK, maybe the surge is working, but the Iraqi 
Government needs to do more.


Well, the Iraqi Government is now doing a lot more, too, as we will 
hear. But I suspect nothing is going to be good enough for those who 
want to get out of Iraq now because, as the majority whip has pointed 
out, we really need to improve America's image abroad. And there a lot 
of people who disagree with us, so that is one of the reasons we need 
to get out of Iraq.

But he also said--how many times--that we are doing better in Iraq. 
Well, I do not know how many times, but certainly since General 
Petraeus reported to the Congress, and every week thereafter, there has 
been improvement. And all we have to do is listen to our colleagues who 
have been there recently to see this reported progress in Iraq.

I do not know why people are so afraid of good news when you are 
winning in a war. Why is that not a good thing? Why are you not proud 
of that? Why do you not say: That is great; let's finish the job.

I suspect if you ask the majority of our troops: Now that you have 
got your boot right on the neck of these enemy terrorists, do you think 
we ought to let it up and walk away or do you think we ought to finish 
the job? My guess is they would all say: Let's finish the job or you 
all back in Washington let us finish the job. Do not pull the plug on 
us so that we have to leave Iraq before we finish the job.

It is interesting there is now a new argument: OK, maybe the surge is 
working. Maybe the Iraqi Government is going to be taking the action we 
asked them to do. And, in fact, they have. They are now taking action 
on the so-called reconciliation there on local elections and the like.

But now the argument is, well, we could actually spend this money on 
other things. Of course, you can always spend money on other things. 
When you are in a war, however, it is a little different. You cannot 
just pull the plug and say we would rather spend the money on housing 
or transportation or education than we would on the war. You do not 
have that option. You cannot just pick up stakes and leave because you 
have to consider the cost of what you leave behind.

Most of the experts who have talked about this have made it crystal 
clear if we decide we want to leave because we would rather spend the 
money on something else, the ultimate cost would be far greater than if 
we finished the job. Because by most estimates, the situation would 
deteriorate. Al-Qaida would reinfiltrate, and the other enemies of the 
Iraqi people would create more problems. The next thing you know, we 
would have to come back in and try to clean up the mess that was 
created because we left prematurely. The bottom line is, the cost of 
leaving prematurely would be far greater than the cost of finishing the 
job once and


for all. It is also difficult to put a price on our national security, 
especially because of those young men and women who have given the 
ultimate sacrifice. We owe it to them to ensure that what they have 
done, the sacrifice they have made, is not going to be wasted, is not 
going to be lost because we were too anxious to get out of there to 
spend money on something else. That is not good policy. It is not the 
way to win a war. It is certainly not the way to beat the terrorists.


The final point the majority whip made was we should return to the 
original al-Qaida threat. I get back to the point I made before. If you 
want to return to the original al-Qaida threat, there is no better way 
than, A, to finish the job in Iraq where we have al-Qaida on the run--
they are essentially defeated; let's don't let them rise back up 
again--and B, pass the FISA legislation, the Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act, which allows us to collect intelligence on these 
terrorists abroad. Again, we did that in the Senate, though many on the 
other side--28--voted against it.

The House of Representatives leadership has an obligation to try to 
get this done. Therefore, I call upon the Democratic House leadership 
to bring up the bill the Senate passed and see if it will pass the 
House of Representatives. I suspect the reason it has not been brought 
up is because they know it would pass. That is a bill the President 
would sign. Why wouldn't that be a good thing? That is the appropriate 
way to move forward.

Let me try to summarize. Republicans have put us into a stall, our 
Democratic friends say, because we agreed to debate the bill they 
wanted us to debate. They expected us to say no, that we wouldn't 
debate it. Then we would have been accused of trying to avoid debate. 
But we agreed. We will have the debate. It is only 30 hours. That is 
hardly enough time for all of my colleagues to be able to say the 
things they want to say, if we have half of that time, but nonetheless 
we will try to give the report of the truth of what is happening in 
Iraq. The American people will be better off for that. So I am glad we 
agreed with the majority leader to proceed to the debate on this bill. 
I suspect we will want to do the same thing on the next bill.

If and when the Democratic majority puts together an economic 
stimulus package, then we can take a look at that and see whether we 
want to debate that as well. But, again, our first priority ought to be 
to get the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act passed because every 
day that goes by that that law is not in effect, we jeopardize our 
national security. We jeopardize our ability to collect intelligence on 
al-Qaida and other terrorists, and we put the lives of Americans at 
risk. That is unacceptable.