---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILIS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `86045827a93f15cdb1ba057ff116b5fd`
`Mr. AKAKA — 11 March 2010`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today, as Chairman of the Senate Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs, I introduce the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-
Living Adjustment Act of 2010.

This measure would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
increase, effective December 1, 2010, the rates of veterans' 
compensation to keep pace with the rising cost of living in this 
country, if such an adjustment is triggered by an increase in the 
Consumer Price Index. This legislation, commonly referred to as the 
COLA, would make an increase available to veterans at the same level as 
a cost-of-living increase, if provided to those who receive Social 
Security benefits.

My colleagues on the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, including 
Senators Burr, Rockefeller, Murray, Sanders, Brown of Ohio, Tester, 
Begich, Burris, Specter, Isakson, and Graham join me in introducing 
this important legislation. I appreciate their continued support of the 
Nation's veterans.

Congress regularly enacts a cost-of-living adjustment for veterans' 
compensation in order to ensure that inflation does not erode the 
purchasing power of those veterans and survivors who depend upon this 
income to meet their daily needs. Last year, Congress passed, and the 
President signed into law, Public Law 111-37. While there was no cost-
of-living increase in 2010 due to a decline in the Consumer Price 
Index, the 2011 adjustment has not yet been determined.

The COLA affects, among other benefits, veterans' disability 
compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving 
spouses and children. It is projected that over 3.5 million veterans 
and survivors will be in receipt of compensation benefits in fiscal 
year 2011. Many of these recipients depend upon these tax-free payments 
not only to provide for their own basic needs, but those of their 
spouses and children as well.

It is important that we view veterans' compensation, including the 
COLA, and indeed all benefits earned by veterans, as a continuing cost 
of war. It is clear that the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan 
will continue to result in injuries and disabilities that will yield an 
increase in claims for compensation.

Payment of disability compensation to those of our Nation's veterans 
who have an illness or disability related to their service constitutes 
one of the central missions of the Department of Veterans Affairs. It 
is a necessary measure of appreciation afforded to those veterans whose 
lives were forever altered by their service to this country.

I urge our colleagues to work together to ensure this benefit remains


available and is not diminished by the effects of inflation. I also ask 
our colleagues for their continued support for the Nation's veterans.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.