---
---

# None
## `860549624dd3ea5c3978ffcc0d7cd7ba`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I am glad Mr. Ryan from Ohio has joined 
us, Mr. Vice Chairman. I just want to commend you for your work with 
the Iraq Watch Group and the work that you have been doing here in the 
House, not only working with Members such as myself, but others that 
are trying to find a way that we, Mr. Speaker, can get our troops home 
more sooner than later. I think it is important that all Members focus 
on the fact that we come to the floor to make sure that we can work 
together.

Again, Mr. Speaker, I would like to not only warn, but I would like 
to bring to the attention of the Members of the House that when that 
bipartisanship is blocked or Members are discouraged from voting on 
legislation, or voting in the affirmative, or slowing down the process, 
when we are trying to carry out the work that the American people sent 
us up here to do, then we have to rise up, the majority that the Vice 
Chairman speaks of so much, to do the things that we need to do on 
behalf of the people.



I think, Mr. Larson, when you were talking, I couldn't help but 
reflect on what we were able to do last week as it relates to our 
military construction/VA spending bill, which was the largest single 
increase in VA in the 77-year history of the VA. It was a bipartisan 
vote that took place in the final analysis, and it was something that 
was well-needed.

This is far from what you remember under Republican control, when the 
chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee just got so fed up and could 
no longer tell the veterans groups in this country that he could help 
them, do what he thought he was supposed to have done on behalf of 
those men and women coming back, those men and women waiting in line 6 
months to see a specialist or what have you. He was removed as 
chairman.

Now we are under a Democratic-controlled Congress, understanding our 
responsibilities, understanding we have two wars going on, 
understanding that the VA doesn't have all of the things that it needs 
to have because of the cuts that have been made, understanding there is 
a Secretary of the VA appointed by the President that was confirmed by 
the Republican Senate, understanding that he doesn't want to make 
career decisions like some Members have, one Member did, who used to be 
the Chair of the Veterans Affairs Committee. And I have that in my 
document that I will bring up a little later.

But I think it is important that we keep the focus; that we work 
double time in making sure that our men and women that are taking the 
fight to almost an unseen aggressor in the middle of a civil war in 
Iraq, with no end in sight, that they know that we are here, especially 
the majority of us here in this House, and will do everything in our 
power, go to as many meetings as we need to go to and get legislation 
to this floor and keep it in the forefront.

I say this, Mr. Larson and Mr. Ryan, because I know there are a 
number of


military families that are there waiting on their loved ones to come 
home. I know there is a wife waiting for a husband, or a husband that 
is waiting on the wife to come back. I know there is a child that wants 
to celebrate what my children celebrate, me walking through the door, 
their mother walking through the door, on a nightly basis, being able 
to do the things that families do. But if you are a soldier, you are 
deployed 12 to 15 months, Mr. Speaker, hands down. And we know with 
this surge that the troop levels have reached a level that has 
endangered the readiness of our country here. I think it is important.