---
---

# RECOGNIZING CLOSE U.S.-U.K. RELATIONSHIP
## `86108fe865b808fdf57277e07bbcb65c`
`Mr. ENGEL — 12 May 2010`

---


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume.

I rise in strong support of this resolution that recognizes the 
special relationship and historical ties between the United Kingdom and 
the United States. Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank my good friend, 
Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart from Florida, for introducing this 
measure.

The United Kingdom and the United States have a long history born of 
shared values and experiences. British legal and philosophical 
traditions have greatly influenced American practices while both our 
nations remain committed to human rights, rule of law, and good 
governance. Our economies are deeply intertwined, as became 
particularly evident during the global financial crisis. Indeed, 
Britain is the largest single investor in our economy, while we are the 
largest source of foreign direct investment in theirs.

Our two nations also share a proud military history. British and 
American soldiers have stood shoulder to shoulder throughout the major 
conflicts of the last 100 years. Together we confronted the challenges 
of Nazism and communism, while today we are fighting together against 
the scourge of international terrorism. We remain grateful for 
Britain's active participation in the military and reconstruction 
efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

In recent months, some in Britain have begun to question this 
''special relationship,'' a phrase coined by British Prime Minister 
Winston Churchill in 1945. As is in the case of all relationships, the 
dynamic link between the U.S. and the U.K. has evolved over time. 
However, it is clear that our relationship is unique, vitally important 
and must continue to be nurtured. The United Kingdom remains an 
essential ally, a valuable partner and a true friend. All British Prime 
Ministers and American Presidents have forged effective working 
relationships in order to confront together the challenges facing the 
present day.



On May 6, just a little while ago, the British people went to the 
polls. Yesterday we watched the political drama unfold as a coalition 
agreement was reached between the Conservative and Liberal Democratic 
Parties. The United States congratulates and stands ready to foster a 
strong relationship with Britain's new Prime Minister, David Cameron. 
This postelection period is an opportune moment to reflect upon the 
strong ties that bind our nations, to celebrate our friendship, and to 
recommit ourselves to continued cooperation in the future. Much work 
needs to be done, and the United States has no better partner in the 
world than the United Kingdom.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.