# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `862696fae44da6c522ee32dcab0a452a`
`Ms. COLLINS — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am in strong support of the fiscal year 
2008 National Defense Authorization Act. This legislation will provide 
essential resources to our troops as they engage in combat overseas and 
training at home. It also offers an important opportunity at this 
crucial time for continued debate as to our Nation's future presence in 
Iraq. This is the most important challenge facing our country, and I 
will address this issue in subsequent remarks.

Let me begin by thanking my colleagues, the distinguished chairman 
and ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Levin and 
Senator McCain, for their leadership in crafting this bill and for 
their strong commitment to our Nation's Armed Forces.

This legislation includes a strong commitment to strengthen Navy 
shipbuilding by including $13.6 billion for shipbuilding programs. The 
declining size of our Navy fleet is of great concern to me, and this 
legislation is an important step toward reversing that troubling 
decline.

The Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Mullen, has proposed a 313-
ship Navy shipbuilding plan that seeks to address longstanding 
congressional concerns that Navy shipbuilding has been inadequately 
funded in recent years. The resulting instability has had a number of 
troubling effects on the shipbuilding industrial base and has 
contributed to significant cost growth in Navy shipbuilding programs. 
The CNO's plan--combined with more robust funding by Congress--will 
begin to reverse the decline in Navy shipbuilding.

I strongly support the provisions authorizing the funding for 
construction of destroyers for the 21st century, the DDG-1000 Zumwalt 
class destroyers. The DDG-1000 represents a significant advance in Navy 
surface combatant technology. Its capabilities include: superior 
precision naval surface fire support; advanced stealth technologies; 
engineering and technological innovations allowing for a reduced crew 
size; and sophisticated, advanced weapons systems, such as the 
electromagnetic rail gun.

In addition, it is important to note the tremendous cost savings that 
will be realized over the lifecycle of a DDG-1000 destroyer compared to 
that of a DDG-51 destroyer as a result of various innovations and 
technological advancements.

It is critical that the construction of the first two DDG-1000 
destroyers in 2007 and 2008 continue as scheduled without further 
delays. The dedicated and highly skilled workers at our Nation's 
surface combatant shipyards, such as Bath Iron Works in my home State 
of Maine, are simply too valuable to jeopardize with further 
contracting delays.

That is why I am concerned that the House version of this bill 
includes a provision to prohibit the start of construction on lead 
ships until the Secretary of Navy certifies that detailed design is 
complete. This provision, if enacted, could further delay the Navy's 
awarding of the construction contract for the first two DDG-1000 
destroyers.

The House version would also require that the next-generation class 
of Navy cruisers, which will be the follow-on to the DDG-1000 
destroyer, be powered by nuclear propulsion systems, even though 
neither of the U.S. Navy's proven surface combatant shipyards, Bath 
Iron Works and Ingalls Shipyard, has the facilities or certifications 
required to construct nuclear-powered surface combatant ships. This 
provision could dramatically increase the costs of future surface 
combatants, thereby reducing the overall number of ships built at a 
time when the Navy is seeking to revitalize and modernize its fleet.

Of further concern is the fact that the Senate version of this 
legislation, as drafted initially, eliminated all funding for the 
Littoral Combat Ship Program for fiscal year 2008, despite the fact 
that this ship is an integral part of the CNO's 313-ship plan. 
Fortunately, I was able to work with my colleagues on the Armed 
Services Committee during the mark up of this legislation to restore 
$480 million to ensure continued development of this important program.

I am pleased that the Senate Armed Services Committee also agreed to 
my request for $50 million in funding to continue the modernization 
program for the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke class destroyers. This program 
provides significant savings to the Navy by applying some of the 
technology that is being developed for the DDG-1000 destroyer and 
backfitting the DDG-51, which may reduce the crew size by 30 to 40 
people.

The Senate's fiscal 2008 Defense authorization bill also includes 
funding for other defense-related projects that benefit Maine and our 
national security. Funding is provided for machine guns and grenade 
launchers, both of which are manufactured by the highly skilled workers 
at Saco Defense in Saco, ME.

All of the Senate Armed Services Committee members are concerned 
about improving the protection of our troops in harm's way. As such, 
this bill includes $4 billion above the President's budget request for 
accelerated procurement of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected, MRAP, 
vehicles for the Armed Forces and $4.5 billion for the Joint Improvised 
Explosive Defeat Organization.

In addition, the legislation provides $5 million to the University of 
Maine's Army Center of Excellence for the production and demonstration 
of lightweight modular ballistic tent insert panels. The panels provide 
crucial protection to servicemembers in temporary dining and housing 
facilities in mobile forward-operating bases in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The legislation also provides $6.9 million for the Maine Army 
National Guard to field the Integrated Disaster Management System, 
developed by Global Relief Technologies in Kennebunk and Portsmouth, in 
support of critical medivac operations in Iraq. This system provides 
near real-time data management and analysis to and from field operators 
via state-of-the-art, hand-held devices.

The bill also authorizes $9.7 million for construction of a 
Consolidated Emergency Control Center at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. 
This facility will consolidate all of the shipyard's emergency response 
entities into one centralized location, which will provide a 
comprehensive communications and response capability in the event of an 
emergency.

Finally, I am pleased that this bipartisan Defense bill also 
authorizes a 3.5-percent across-the-board pay increase for 
servicemembers, half a percent above the President's budget request. 
This bill provides the necessary resources to our troops and our Nation 
and recognizes the enormous contributions made by the State of Maine. 
The bill provides the necessary funding for our troops, and I offer it 
my full support.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.