# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `86357525ed69b10c8bc94b1167d0fba3`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 13 July 2010`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Private 
First Class Edwin C. Wood of Omaha, NE.

Private First Class Wood was an ''All-American kid,'' who dreamed of 
one day serving his country. That opportunity came in October 2009 when 
he enlisted in the U.S. Army and became a cavalry scout for the 1st 
Squadron, 71st Armor Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team of the 10th 
Mountain Division, based in Fort Drum, NY.

A graduate of Omaha North High School, Private First Class Wood, 
better known as Eddie or Freckles, spent his time growing up as a 
member of the Boy Scouts and Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps a 
military re-enactor and a junior counselor at YMCA Camp Pokamoke in 
Crescent, IA. He was a role model to all who knew him.

Private First Class Wood had just gotten back to Afghanistan, after 
being home on leave in June, when the truck he was driving on July 5, 
2010, was hit by an improvised explosive device. The explosion took 
this brave young man's life, along with that of another soldier, SSG 
Christopher F. Cabacoy.

Although he was only in the service for a short time, Private First 
Class Wood's awards and decorations include the Army Good Conduct 
Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, and Combat Action Badge.

PFC Edwin C. Wood served his country honorably and made the ultimate 
sacrifice for his fellow Americans. His courageous choice to protect 
his country and help the people of Afghanistan achieve peace and 
security represents all that we can be proud of in our armed forces. I 
know I join all Nebraskans in grieving the loss of Private Wood; he 
will be remembered for the selfless hero he was. Private First Class 
Wood's family and friends remain in our thoughts and prayers.















Corporal Todd Nicely
