---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011--MOTION TO
## `8637d409d4aaed65a03e6b0496919aa4`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 21 September 2010`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam President, like many Americans, I am 
frustrated with the gridlock in the Senate, and I am very concerned by 
our dysfunctionality, witnessed once again here today. When we were 
asked to lead on critical issues facing our men and women in uniform, 
our troops--also tied to our national security and our international 
leadership in the 21st century--the Senate has once again taken a pass, 
has once again let politics obstruct our progress.

Coloradans sent me here to lead, like they sent the Presiding Officer 
here from her great State of North Carolina, and to find solutions to 
problems however vexing. I, for one, am increasingly tired of the 
partisan wrangling that besets each and every issue.

This debate, like so many others we have attempted to have, was 
derailed by obstructionism before it even began. Now, I realize some 
will say they scuttled this critical Defense bill in part because the 
majority leader announced he expected to have a vote on the DREAM Act, 
which, by the way, would allow young, undocumented immigrants a chance 
to attend college and serve in our military. They were brought here to 
this country through no decision they made as very young people.

But I have to tell you, I think it was about more than just that. In 
my humble opinion, the issues mattered far less than the politics. 
There has been a concerted effort to prevent or stall debate on nearly 
every major bill this year, and, sadly, a bill dealing with our troops 
is not free from the same tactics.

There is no reason we should not have a debate on any issue, let 
alone a vote, and the DREAM Act is no exception. I know the Presiding 
Officer and I joined the Senate at the same time. We heard about how 
the Senate is the world's greatest deliberative body. If you do not 
deliberate, what does that make us?

I also know that repeal of don't ask, don't tell is a contentious 
subject, and it has also been used as an excuse to sink this very 
important bill. But, I have to tell you, I think this is an outdated, 
discriminatory policy that undermines the strength of our military and 
the basic fairness upon which our great Nation was built. At a time 
when we are fighting two wars, we need every skilled servicemember we 
have: airmen, mechanics, translators, and all the many other 
specialties our military serve in.

Unlike what some on the other side of the aisle have claimed, the 
language in this bill repealing don't ask, don't tell respects the 
Pentagon's timeline and gives our military leaders flexibility to 
implement repeal in a way that tracks with military standards and 
guidelines. As Admiral Mullen testified before the Senate Armed 
Services Committee--the Presiding Officer remembers what a powerful day 
that was--he said repealing don't ask, don't tell is the ''right thing 
to do.''

Unfortunately, political debate and disagreement has prevented us 
from having this important discussion on how best to support our 
troops, plus thwarted a serious discussion about numerous pressing 
national security issues. I am disappointed in the partisanship, but I 
have to tell you, I am even more disappointed in the disservice to the 
men and women in uniform that today's inaction has caused.

Our American citizens, our constituents, our friends and neighbors 
face difficult decisions in their lives every day, but many here in 
Washington bristle at the notion that they face hard choices. They say 
taking votes on certain issues will be too difficult, that the politics 
are too tough, or that they cannot stomach the thought of losing. But 
Americans have not run away from hard decisions in the past. What about 
us? This place is a forum--or it should be a forum--where we can work 
together.

But, today, with the Senate blocking this bill, I fear our national 
security and our troops will suffer. Every year for nearly a half 
century--I think accurately put, 49 years consecutively--Congress has 
taken up and passed a bill that renews, in some cases reforms, and in 
other cases replaces our defense policies.

This Defense authorization bill, like all those that came before it--
the previous 49 Defense authorization bills--is critically important. 
It provides funding for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. It supports 
our servicemembers who keep America safe by including fair pay and 
benefits for our men and women in uniform.

Preventing this debate keeps us from pushing forward with this bill's 
provisions to enhance our military's readiness, improve our 
servicemembers' training, and upgrade equipment and resources to 
succeed in combat. We are also leaving behind provisions in the bill to 
strengthen our nonproliferation programs and enable the reduction of 
our nuclear weapons stockpile while ensuring the stockpile has 
continued reliability.

We are foregoing the crucial opportunity--I know the Presiding 
Officer has believed this is very important as well--to increase the 
Pentagon's use of alternative energy technologies and


fuels to improve the Department's efficiency and energy security.

The bill also includes so many important provisions for the health 
and resiliency--both mental and physical--of our servicemembers and 
their families. Specifically, it includes a provision I authored 
extending health insurance for military families, enabling the children 
of Active-Duty servicemembers and retirees to stay on their parents' 
plans until the age of 26--similar to what we did in the Health Care 
Reform Act for the civilian sector. Importantly, the bill provides 
improved care for our wounded servicemembers and their families.

As part of a longer term effort to treat both the physical and the 
unseen mental wounds of war, I have been reviewing the Army's report on 
Health Promotion, Risk Reduction, and Suicide Prevention, which was 
published earlier this summer. One passage particularly struck me:




 In just six years, Soldiers experience the equivalent of a 


 lifetime when compared to their civilian counterparts.


In other words, at the age of 24, the average soldier has moved 
multiple times, been deployed around the world, married and had 
children, seen death, had financial and relationship problems, is 
responsible for dozens of soldiers, and gets paid less than $40,000 a 
year.

The lives of average soldiers bear no resemblance whatsoever to ours. 
Their sacrifices are far beyond what many of us can imagine, and we 
have demanded so much of them for so long. That is why I have continued 
to focus my efforts on how we can help our brave service men and women 
suffering from mental wounds when they come home. Fort Carson in 
Colorado has had its share of difficulties addressing the needs of our 
soldiers, but we are seeing real progress. I am particularly proud of 
what Fort Carson has been doing in the way of providing behavioral 
health care to soldiers not just when they get back home but also while 
they are still on the battlefield.


That is the essence of Fort Carson's Mobile Behavioral Health Teams, 
which embed credentialed behavioral health providers within a brigade 
combat team, both during deployment and in garrison. Language I 
authored in this bill encourages the Army to replicate this successful 
program to help facilitate early identification and treatment of 
behavioral health problems.

The bad news, again, is that this provision--and so many important 
provisions in this bill--will not be debated today. It appears election 
year partisanship has prevailed over the responsibility and the need to 
provide for our men and women in uniform as they fight two wars.

Having said that, I do remain optimistic about our future, and I am 
committed to working toward a new kind of politics, where we find 
consensus amidst disagreement. I know Americans want their leaders to 
tackle challenging problems and resolve the tough issues. That is what 
America does. That is what Americans do. That is what we were hired to 
do. So in that spirit, I will continue to reach out to all my 
colleagues who wish to find common ground and call on others to let 
this debate move forward in the coming weeks so support for our troops 
is not held back any longer. Americans sent us here to do no less.

Madam President, I thank you for your attention. I thank you for your 
service on the Armed Services Committee alongside me. With that, I note 
the absence of a quorum.