---
---

# None
## `86397dd6c77e39364773d6bf6310244e`
`Ms. LEE — 25 July 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman for yielding and 
for his leadership. Also, I would like to thank our Speaker, our 
leadership, Chairman Skelton, Chairman Lantos, Congresswoman Ileana 
Ros-Lehtinen and others for really bringing this critical measure to a 
vote today.

What this legislation does is really simple. It does what the Iraq 
Study Group and other experts have recommended that we do. It makes a 
clear state of policy that the United States does not intend to 
maintain an open-ended military presence in Iraq and that we will not 
exercise control over Iraqi oil, and it backs up that policy with the 
power of the purse.



And the President and his administration to this date, and I mean to 
this


date, have not made a clear statement of this policy. Putting Congress 
on record with this clear statement helps take the target off our 
troops' backs; it supports our goals of handing over responsibility for 
security and public safety to Iraqi forces.

Mr. Speaker, the perception that the United States plans to maintain 
a permanent military presence in Iraq strengthens the insurgency and 
fuels the violence against our troops. That is why experts ranging from 
former adviser to the Coalition Provisional Authority Larry Diamond to 
the Iraq Study Group have called on the President to make a clear 
statement of policy that the United States does not intend to maintain 
permanent military bases or an open-ended military presence in Iraq.

Unfortunately, the administration has refused to do that. In fact, 
there are conflicting accounts as to who will decide if we stay in Iraq 
permanently. When the President was asked that question at a press 
conference last October he said: ''Any decisions on permanency in Iraq 
will be made by the Iraqi Government.'' But when Secretary Gates was 
asked is our presence left up to the Iraqis, or do we make the decision 
in testimony before the Senate this February, Secretary Gates said, we 
will make this decision.

More recently the administration has further muddied the waters by 
saying that they envision a United States military presence in Iraq 
similar to that we have in South Korea where American troops have been 
stationed for more than 50 years and won't be leaving anytime soon.

We must soundly reject the vision of an open-ended occupation as bad 
policy which undermines the safety of our troops, and we must recognize 
it for what it is: Another recruiting posture for terrorists.

To those who raise objections or want to suggest this is only a 
symbolic measure, or raise semantic questions about what a permanent 
base is, let me say this: This is a serious issue, and I think we 
should all recognize how much is at stake.

The question is simple: Do we support an endless occupation, or do we 
oppose it? We may disagree on many things about Iraq, but I hope we can 
agree that an endless occupation is not the answer. Let's make that 
commitment today. Let's put the so-called Korea model to bed, and let's 
tell our young men and women that when they come home, they will all 
come home. Let's pass this legislation, and I want to thank 
Congresswomen Woolsey and Waters, and Congressmen Price and Allen for 
their support.