---
---

# None
## `86402bc340d5c1ffdd0ee992237123fb`
`Mr. WARNER — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I think I can almost speak for our side 
with certainty. I have a few comments, followed by perhaps a minute and 
a half by the Republican leader, and then that way we can yield back 
time. I will proceed to give my comments.

I say to my good friend from Michigan that I picked one word out of 
his very impressive opening comments. I agree with his opening comments 
about the tragic situation by which the leadership in Iraq, their 
legislative body, has failed to act.

But one word you said impressed me, and that is ''military progress 
is being made.'' That is an exact quote you used. You felt if we didn't 
speak by adopting your amendment, there would be silence. I say to my 
good friend, the amendment by the distinguished Republican leader and 
the Senator from Connecticut, the McConnell-Lieberman amendment, will 
send a very strong message. Were we to adopt your amendment, it would 
be in conflict with that message. That is my concern. Therefore, I must 
say, I strongly support the McConnell-Lieberman amendment. I hope that 
will be voted on very shortly. I do believe, in all sincerity, your 
amendment would send a conflicting message. That message could be 
exceedingly troublesome. People don't understand the phraseology 
''sense of the Senate.'' Al-Qaida would simply clip that off and then 
announce that we are going to leave in December, irrespective of the 
facts on the ground. Furthermore, we have not been in this fight alone. 
We put together a coalition of forces, a coalition of nations, 
primarily Great Britain and others, Poland. So far as I know, there has 
been no consultation with respect to your amendment to announce a goal 
by December of next year with those other fighting forces that, while 
they are smaller in number, are no less important as a symbol of the 
united effort of many nations to achieve, first, sovereignty in Iraq, 
which has been a wonderful goal that has been achieved, and now to 
enable that country to take its place rightfully in that region and be 
a strong voice for freedom and to fight al-Qaida.

I say to my friend, I will have to oppose his amendment because it 
would send a totally conflicting message with the underlying amendment, 
which is a very significant appropriation of funds to continue, as you 
say, in your very words, the ''progress'' of the military so far.

I yield the floor.