---
---

# THANKING ROTARY FOR 105 YEARS OF SERVICE
## `8643e4abbb465fc5381de67572fef0f8`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 8 December 2010`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my strong 
support for H. Res. 1727, a resolution recognizing Rotary International 
for 105 years of service to the world and commending its members on 
their dedication to the mission and principles of their organization. 
As the Representative of the 9th Congressional District of Illinois 
which is home to Rotary Club International, I want to personally thank 
them for the service and commitment to making the world a more humane 
place.

Madam Speaker, the Rotary Club's motto, ''Service Above Self,'' is an 
inspiring example for all Americans. Rotarians not only preach this 
motto, they live it by developing community service projects that 
address many of today's most critical issues, such as children at risk, 
poverty and hunger, the environment, illiteracy, and violence.

I would like to especially recognize Rotary for its 25-year long 
campaign for the global eradication of polio. Since 1985, Rotarians 
have raised close to a billion dollars to immunize the children of the 
world and have pledged to contribute an additional $500 million to the 
cause. In addition to this generous financial contribution, Rotary has 
provided an army of volunteers to promote and assist at national 
immunization days in polio-endemic countries around the world.

Due in large part to Rotary's efforts, the number of polio cases has 
fallen dramatically. In1985, there were 350,000 known cases of polio in 
125 countries. Today, more than 200 countries are polio-free. There are 
only four endemic nations--Afghanistan, India, Nigeria and Pakistan--
the lowest in history.

I want to again thank Rotary International for its 105 years of 
service. There is no question that the world is a far better place 
today because of their tremendous work.
