---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `864664ac4761dce38eaf96d14947af73`
`Mr. AKAKA — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today I, along with my good friend and 
ranking member, Senator Craig, introduce comprehensive legislation to 
improve the capacity of the Department of Veterans Affairs to care for 
veterans with traumatic brain injuries, otherwise referred to as TBI.

TBI has become the signature wound of the Iraq war. Blast injuries 
account for over 60 percent of all combat wounds suffered by U.S. 
forces in Iraq. The brain can be harmed by the shock of an explosion, 
or by rattling or striking of the head as a consequence of the 
explosion. The high incidence of powerful explosive attacks means that 
potentially thousands of OIF/OEF veterans have incurred some form of 
brain damage or impairment. Many servicemembers who would have perished 
from their wounds in earlier conflicts are now saved by modern body 
armor and rapid medical evacuation. Although these individuals survive, 
many of them suffer brain damage in addition to other injuries. There 
must be new approaches to best meet the health care needs of these 
veterans.

On March 27, 2007, I chaired a Committee on Veterans' Affairs hearing 
on VA's ability to deal with war injuries, including TBI. The 
provisions of this bill are a direct outgrowth of that hearing and the 
testimony given by those who suffer with TBI.

This bill addresses the immediate needs of veterans with TBI for 
high-quality rehabilitation in their communities, and provides VA 
clinicians with increased resources to develop the expertise and 
capacity to meet the lifelong needs of these veterans. The bill has 
seven core provisions, and authorizes a total of $63 million over 6 
years to support new TBI-related initiatives. While this amounts to 
significant new funding, every dollar was included in our Committee's 
Views and Estimates Letter to the Budget Committee, and was 
subsequently included in the Senate-passed Budget Resolution.

I will highlight a few of the provisions of this legislation:

First, VA health care providers would be required to develop a 
comprehensive rehabilitation and community reintegration plan for each 
veteran with TBI. A diverse team of VA health care providers would be 
required to review and refine the plan to adapt to the needs of the 
veteran. Giving an injured veteran or their caregiver an opportunity to 
request a review of the rehabilitation plan would ensure VA's 
responsiveness to the needs of these individuals. This provision stems 
directly from the hearing testimony of Denise Mettie, whose severely 
injured son Evan went for months without a coherent, well-thought-out 
rehabilitation plan.

Second, as we heard from the story by ABC news anchor Bob Woodruff, 
who himself suffered a TBI, VA's four lead polytrauma centers have 
developed significant expertise in rehabilitative care, but most other 
VA facilities lack capacity for specialized TBI services. The bill 
would require VA to implement the individualized plan through outside 
providers in cases where VA is unable to provide the required intensity 
of care or the veteran lives too far away to make VA treatment 
feasible. This provision is inspired by the hearing testimony of Dr. 
Bruce Gans, who called for greater private sector involvement in 
veterans' rehabilitation in those cases where VA lacks capacity or 
geographic reach. Our goal is to ensure that VA care is the finest in 
the country. When VA cannot adequately serve veterans with TBI, 
community providers need to be utilized.

Third, care for veterans with severe TBI often leads to nursing home 
care. This legislation would give VA providers, in collaboration with 
the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center, the ability to conduct 
innovative research and treatment to ''re-awaken'' veterans with severe 
TBI, by making $15 million available for research and care over 5 
years.

Finally, the legislation makes available $48 million over 6 years for 
VA to maximize the independence, quality of life, and community 
reintegration of veterans with TBI who are unable to manage routine 
activities of daily living. These funds would be available for an 
assisted living pilot program for those with TBI, so that veterans who 
might otherwise be forced into institutional long-term care will 
instead have an opportunity to live in group homes or under other 
arrangements. The bill also requires special consideration for rural 
veteran participation in this pilot program.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this innovative and 
comprehensive legislation, which will bring hope and progress to many 
brain injured veterans and their families.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the 
Record.