---
---

# None
## `8651c34c6d7597ccf73f0f76fbfd01a4`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 1 December 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to share a few thoughts as we go 
forward on the health care debate and remind our colleagues what we 
have been hearing at the town meetings that most of us have been having 
around the country and what people are concerned about.

Part of it is they think we don't have a very good perspective on 
what is going on in America. They are not happy with us. They think we 
are losing our fiscal minds, that we are ignoring the fact that we are 
facing a soaring debt. We passed on top of the debt we already had an 
$800 billion stimulus package--$800 billion--the largest spending bill 
in the history of America on top of all our other baseline bills.

Our baseline appropriations bills, not even including the additions 
by the stimulus, are showing double-digit increases. These increases 
are far more than President Bush ever had, and he was criticized for 
reckless spending. He never had the kind of baseline spending increases 
that were passed a few months ago, a few weeks ago in some cases.

This year, as of September 30, we acknowledged and accounted for a 
$1.4 trillion budget deficit in 1 year--1 year, $1.4 trillion, 
September 30. The Republicans never had a deficit so large in 1 year. 
And in the next year, it is projected to be over $1 trillion, and 
continue to average $1 trillion each year over the next 10 years. In 
the 8th, 9th, and 10th years of the President's 10-year budget, the 
deficit goes up. It does not ever go down, it continues to go up. 
Therefore, we end up with a huge debt. That is according to our own 
Congressional Budget Office hired by the Congress--approved by the 
majority of our colleagues who are, of course, Democrats. They approve 
the Budget Director, and he tries to do a pretty good job of giving us 
honest numbers.

This is what the numbers show. In 2008, we had $5.8 trillion in debt 
in America since the founding of the Republic. By 2013, 5 years down 
the road, that will double to $11.8 trillion. And in 10 years, the 10-
year budget the President submitted to us--I did not submit this 
budget, President Obama submitted it and it was passed by the 
Congress--increases that debt to $17.3 trillion, tripling the debt of 
America in 10 years. That is what the people are very concerned about, 
among other things.

What does all this pending mean also? It means government power, 
government reach, government domination, government takeover. People 
are concerned about it. They are asking: Are you not getting the 
message? What is the matter with you? That is what I am hearing. I 
think people have a right to be concerned.


One of the issues I have raised is the fact that the interest on the 
debt in 2009 was $170 billion for 1 year--that is for interest alone. 
By 2019, interest on the debt, according to CBO, in 1 year, will be 
$799 billion. That number is higher than the budget for defense. It is 
larger than any other program. We


spend about $100 billion a year on education, and $40 or so billion on 
highways. But in 10 years, we will be spending $800 billion on interest 
alone. And how much of that is owned by foreign governments, many of 
whom are not our friends and not our allies?

So even the President has said this debt is unsustainable. The 
economists say it is unsustainable. Every politician I know of says 
that it is unsustainable. Yet we continue outrageous spending, and in 
the midst of this financial tempest, what do we now have before us? The 
promise of a $2.5 trillion new health care program--$2.5 trillion as it 
will cost when fully implemented.

The question I have heard asked of the President, and I have heard 
asked of the Democratic leadership and the Congress: But, Congressman, 
Senator, we don't have the money. What do you say about that?

They say: Oh, don't worry. We have this great new program that is 
going to help you in so many ways. We are going to spend a lot of 
money, true, but it is going to be deficit neutral. My goodness, it is 
not even going to be budget neutral, it is going to save us $130 
billion in 10 years. Will you guys just relax? Don't worry about it. We 
are going to save $130 billion. Thank us. We are going to give you this 
program, save $130 billion, and you will get a lot more health care out 
here--still with 24 million uninsured, but we will have a lot of money 
spent to help you with your health insurance, they will say.

The President said he would not sign a bill into law that would add 
one single dime to the national debt. Well, people say: How are you 
going to do that? That sounds pretty good, if we can make that happen. 
How are we going to do it? Well, the answer is we are going to raid 
Medicare, we are going to raise taxes, and we are not going to pay the 
doctors who do our work. There will be $494 billion in tax increases, 
$465 billion in Medicare cuts--and Medicare is already on a glide path 
to insolvency by 2017--and a $250 billion shortfall for our physicians. 
Those are payments they have been promised and they thought they were 
going to get as part of this fix.

So I would just make the point that we can give everyone in America a 
new car if we just raised taxes and raided Medicare. That would be 
pretty easy, wouldn't it? Anything can count as deficit-neutral if you 
raise taxes high enough. So this is not a deficit-neutral program. Just 
because we raise taxes, does it have to be that we should prioritize 
first to use that money to start a new program? What about addressing 
the shortfall in highway funding that we are hearing so much about? 
What about the cost of our effort in Afghanistan? What about other 
expenses we have? What about saving Medicare, a program our seniors 
depend on? If we are going to raise taxes, why don't we use the money 
for that? Who says we have to raise taxes to start a new program?

Well, I suggest to you that based on the omission of doctors fix 
alone we don't have a $130 billion surplus in this bill. The fact that 
it is unpaid for, we have a $130 billion net deficit because the bill 
fails to pay $250 billion in doctor fees that I predict we will 
eventually pay, one way or another. The way we have done it in the past 
is we have just socked it to the debt. We have just paid the doctors, 
raised no revenue, and changed the law. We have just paid them and 
increased our debt that much each year.

So I say these are not sound numbers. I am telling you, the American 
people's instincts are right about this. We are not being responsible 
about how we manage the people's business, promising that this bill is 
going to be better for everybody. But let me ask for the average 
American who is doing the right thing, who is struggling and scraping 
together money to make insurance premiums each month, will that person 
pay less for their health care? CBO basically says no. If that 
individual is not in an employer-provided group plan already, if he's 
among those who are already paying the highest costs for health care in 
the country, then he is one of the people who are going to pay as much 
as 10 to 13 percent more under this bill than he currently pays.

Will health care, as a percentage of our total economy, our total 
GDP, will it be reduced by this bill, therefore getting more health 
care at a better cost? Not according to the scoring we have seen. In 
fact, just the opposite is the case. If this bill passes, a larger 
percentage of our GDP will go to health care than before.

So I just raise concerns. This is a plan to create an entirely new 
government-dominated health care plan. This is a new program. How are 
we going to do it? By raiding Medicare, raising taxes, and not paying 
doctors, among a bunch of other flimflammery that is in the bill. We 
talk about this public option. Well, Senator Baucus says we may not 
have a public option. It is in the House bill, and it is in this bill 
that is on the Senate floor.

So we don't have the money for a monumental new health care program. 
We could do a lot of things to improve health care in America that 
could help contain the rising cost of health care, that could be done 
in a way that would not diminish the circumstances we are in today. 
What about Medicare? Do you remember when President Bush proposed 
fixing Social Security and many Senators--Democrats as well as 
Republicans--said: Well, President Bush, if you want to do something, 
why don't you fix Medicare? That is the one in the biggest trouble?

In truth, Medicare is sinking faster than Social Security. Medicare 
will decline by 2017 and go into deficit. We have a shortfall in 
Medicare now. What we should do is focus on Medicare every way that we 
can to create efficiencies and more productivity, contain growth and 
cost and extend that period of time before it goes in default. The last 
thing we should be doing is taking $465 billion from Medicare. It is 
only going to accelerate its decline. That is common sense.

Mr. President, I would just like to read a letter I received from one 
of my constituents--Mr. Bill Eberle in Huntsville, AL. He said:




 I strongly urge you to vote against the health care bill 


 passed by the House. The worst part of this bill is that much 


 of the cost will be paid by cuts to Medicare. I am 68 years 


 old, and I have paid into Medicare for 40 years believing 


 that it would cover much of my health care costs when I 


 became 65. Now I am being told that the government has found 


 people who need coverage more than I do, and they will cut 


 the care for which I have paid for 40 years in order to cover 


 people who have paid nothing. It is not the government's 


 money. The money belongs to those of us who have paid into it 


 for so many years and we are watching as it is being taken 


 from us.


Well, I think that is a pretty fair statement of it. Medicare is 
heading to insolvency in 2017. We have had a number of proposals to try 
to help on that front. We haven't had much support from our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle even for modest fixes.

I remember one bill that was going to reduce Medicare spending by $10 
billion over 5 years, and you would have thought we were going to 
savage the whole program, although we were trying to make it more 
sustainable in the long run. It was a big mess. But now we are talking 
about $465 billion being taken from Medicare.

So, Mr. President, Medicare is a big problem. We need to work hard to 
bring it under control and honor our seniors who have been paying into 
this program and not drawing a dime from it on the promise that when 
they turned 65 they would start being able to draw on Medicare and it 
would take care of their health care needs in their senior years. That 
was a solemn commitment. Before we start some monumental new program, 
we need to make sure we are prepared to honor that commitment because 
they paid their money. They have paid their money. So if we raise 
taxes, why shouldn't we pay the Medicare bill first? If we raise taxes, 
why shouldn't we pay our doctors the money we owe them or some of the 
other priorities that we have in our country?

Mr. President, I feel strongly that the American people are sending 
us the right message. They are acting like good public-minded citizens 
would. They are seeing a reckless new spending program that they 
rightly anticipate will grow and grow and grow and expand far beyond 
all the projections we have today; that it will result in a government 
takeover of a whole large portion of our economy, and they have not 
been impressed that the government can run these kinds of things very 
effectively and they are not in


favor of it. So they are rightly concerned, and that is why polling 
numbers show the American people don't favor this legislation.

I think their instincts are right. I think we should listen to them.

I appreciate the effort to improve health care in America. I support 
a number of reform provisions, some of which are in this bill, but 
others could be a part of this bill to make health care more 
affordable, more effective, and help people who are having a hard time 
financing their insurance premiums. But the truth is, the bill doesn't 
really reduce the premium cost for most people. Many people who are 
paying their bills today are not going to get any reduction. In fact, 
they may see an increase. So for these reasons, I oppose the 
legislation, I thank the Presiding Officer, and I yield the floor.