---
---

# VETERANS' MENTAL HEALTH AND OTHER CARE IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `8655274eafb182ce24feefc338836079`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

I rise today in strong support of this bill, the Veterans' Mental 
Health and Other Care Improvements Act. I am so pleased that the needs 
of our returning soldiers are finally being recognized and that 
Congress is finally taking action.

While this is no panacea and much still needs to be done to fully 
care for our soldiers, namely to make wartime service in the theater of 
combat a presumption for post traumatic stress disorder which I have 
submitted that concept in independent legislation, I am glad to see 
that mental health is beginning to gain the recognition and the 
treatment it deserves.

There is no greater time for this recognition than right now. The 
Rand Corporation did studies showing that approximately 20 to 30 
percent of our military servicemembers returning from Iraq and 
Afghanistan are showing symptoms of PTSD or depression. Longer and more 
frequent deployments are placing increased stresses on our military 
families and are taking a very real toll. Substance abuse and suicides 
are up, and coupled with our current financial hardships, our returning 
brave men and women and their families are facing incredibly difficult 
times.

I am very grateful for all the work of the members of the Senate and 
House Veterans' Affairs Committees and for the leadership of Chairman 
Filner and Ranking Member Buyer for pushing through this legislation.

Just to name a few of the provisions of the bill, it will utilize the 
Internet to provide education, outreach and treatment for substance 
abuse, PTSD or other ailments soldiers are facing; a review and update 
of all the VA's mental health facilities by the Inspector General; an 
additional pilot program providing peer outreach, peer support, 
readjustment and mental health services to veterans through contracts 
with community mental health centers; it increases funds for mental 
health research; and it provides marriage and family counseling within 
authorized mental health services and also bolsters family outreach 
programs.

I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this bill and provide 
the returning men and women of our Armed Forces who have sacrificed so 
much for our Nation with the treatment and the respect that they 
deserve.