---
---

# DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `865b04228289accc649b317165600fc8`
`Mr. BOYD of Florida — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. BOYD of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend and 
counterpart, Mike Ross from Arkansas, my fellow Member of the 43 Member 
strong fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. It is a group that I 
have been a member of all the years of my service, 10 years of my 
service here in the United States House of Representatives, and it is a 
group that I am quite proud of their work on behalf of the American 
people.

Mr. Speaker, like yourself, being raised in Indiana and Mr. Ross in 
Arkansas, I was raised in a little community in north Florida on a farm 
by parents who taught me very early that it was important that we, as a 
family, live within our means. We established our priorities as a 
family, the things that we had to have, needed. We knew what our 
sources of income were, and we worked hard as a family to meet those 
priorities. But Mr. Speaker, you know, we were taught as young people, 
as children, if you don't have the money, then you don't buy things 
which you can't afford to pay for. Those were lessons that we learned 
very well at an early age, taught by our parents, that we carried on to 
our businesses. And let's face it, if you spend more money every year 
in a business than you take in, you're out of business pretty soon; 
your banker pulls the plug on you.



We learned that lesson. Our local governments and State governments 
understand that, as well as our county governments. But something has 
happened in Washington in the last 6 years. In 8 tough years during the 
1990s of making tough decisions relative to our priorities and spending 
and getting under control the deficit spending, 6 years ago, 6-plus 
years ago, we went on a rampage here in Washington that sent spending 
through the roof, far outstripping the revenues raised to pay for that 
spending. As a result, we had to go into the capital markets and borrow 
that money to pay for normal operations of our United States 
Government.

We have the most powerful government in the world. We have the most 
powerful Nation. We have the richest Nation. Our economic model is a 
wonderful, wonderful economic model. But we have forgotten the lessons 
that we all learned as children taught to us by our parents that we 
ought to be fiscally responsible and we ought to be accountable for how 
we spend our dollars.

This is really what my friend, Mr. Ross, who is leading this special 
order tonight, the point that he wants to make. That is that when we 
take dollars from the American public in the form of taxes, and today 
is the day, April 17, which happens to be--since yesterday was a 
holiday someplace, today is the day that our taxes are due. When we 
take taxes from the American people, the American people expect us to 
spend that money wisely and they expect us to account for them and they 
don't expect us to waste those dollars.

That is why some of the things that I have been seeing over the last 
several years in the way that some of our Federal executive agencies 
have spent the money and been unable to account for, and I tell you, 
honestly, Mr. Speaker, the Department of Defense probably is the 
biggest offender as it relates to accountability. Many of the dollars 
that we have appropriated over the years for the Iraq war, for 
instance, the Department of Defense cannot pass an audit or account for 
in how they were spent.

I think you see one of the things that is happening in the last 
several months since the election is that Congress is beginning to ask 
the tough questions of the administration as it relates to how the tax 
dollars that are taken from the American people by the United States 
Government, how they are spent. Are we spending them wisely and are we 
accounting for them? Do we have contractors running amuck in Iraq, and 
are we getting our money's worth?

I think this is an important time to be thinking about accountability 
and good stewardship of our American tax dollars. Today is the day. 
Midnight tonight is the time when that filing is due. You know, the 
people at home that I live around, they don't mind paying taxes as long 
as they know as a government we are setting our priorities and we are 
doing a good job of stewardship and accounting for the dollars that are 
being spent. I think that is what this is all about tonight, 
accountability; and I want to thank my friend, Mr. Ross, for leading 
this discussion.

And, Mr. Speaker, it is great to see you in that chair as a fellow 
member of the Blue Dog Coalition.