---
---

# HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST JACOB SEXTON
## `8660969ebe52f31becbf644a6a148d05`
`Mr. PENCE — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, sometimes our heroes fall on foreign soil, 
and sometimes they come home and fall, but we honor their service and 
their sacrifice all the same.

Madam Speaker, I rise with a heavy heart to mark the sudden passing 
of a hero from my home State of Indiana and to honor his service and 
his life. Army Specialist Jacob Sexton, a combat veteran of conflicts 
both in Iraq and Afghanistan, tragically passed away while on leave 
from his overseas duties earlier this week.

A native of Farmland, Indiana, Jacob graduated from Monroe Central 
High School, and like many men in the Sexton family, Jacob chose to 
wear the uniform.

Jacob served with Alpha Company, 2nd Battalion, of the 151st Infantry 
Regiment in the Indiana National Guard. Those who served with him 
remember a selfless soldier who was quick to volunteer for difficult 
assignments.

A Humvee driver while in Iraq, he took on dangerous positions, often 
leaving himself exposed to IED and small-arms attacks. As an 
infantryman in Afghanistan, Jacob saw firsthand the perils of combat, 
but he faced those perils with courage.

Those close to Jacob noted that the stresses of combat and long 
deployments seemed to have little effect on his infectious personality. 
However, after this week's tragic events, it is painfully clear that 
Jacob Sexton was deeply affected by his experiences in uniform and on 
deployment.

While his loss leaves far too many questions unanswered, I believe it 
is yet another reminder of the special care our heroes need and 
deserve, those who defend freedom, when they come home.

Heroes like Army Specialist Jacob Sexton are the pride of their 
family and our Nation's most treasured citizens. Jacob's family, his 
parents, Jeff and Barbara; his brothers, Joshua, Jeremiah and Jared; 
and all those who


served with him, know that you have our deepest condolences, the 
gratitude of the people of Indiana, and you shall remain in the hearts 
of a grateful Nation forever.
