---
---

# None
## `8660ab27c7365ef5e74622ca29465811`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 10 January 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Okay. A 33-year-old senior moment.

I just wanted to mention something real quick that I think is 
important.



There is going to be a lot of talk tomorrow. We are going to do some 
good legislation. We have stem cell research that is coming up, and we 
have negotiating as it relates to prescription drugs is coming up 
before the weekend. Something that is going to be common now, was 
uncommon in the 109th Congress, we are actually going to work a 5-day 
work week or a 4-day work week as it relates to the congressional 
calendar.

But I just want to mention something. I don't want us to leave this 
floor tonight unless we have an opportunity to talk about what the 
President's going to talk about an hour or so from now. I think it is 
important. I have served, Mr. Ryan and I have served on Armed Services 
in the last two Congresses; and you, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, have 
served here in the last Congress and now this Congress at war.

Mr. Delahunt, you were here when this House voted to give the 
President authority to go or not, what have you. And now we are after 
the election in November, the American people, everyone thought, Mr. 
Speaker, that the election was going to be about the economy. They 
thought it was going to be about health care. They thought it was going 
to be about whatever the issue may be. But it was about Iraq, and it 
was about the decisions that were made, and the lack thereof, out of 
this Congress of asking the questions and oversight.

Now what is going to happen, Members, you are going to have the Armed 
Services Committee, you are going to have the Defense Appropriations 
Committee, you are going to have the Government Operations Committee, 
you are going to have a number of committees that have oversight 
responsibility on the committee level, providing the oversight for this 
war.

Now the President is going to come out tonight and he is going to 
ask, he is going to say, I call it an escalation, he calls it something 
else, of 20,000 new troops on the ground, boots on the ground. 3,017 
men and women are no longer with us tonight; and we appreciate their 
honor, we appreciate their service to the country. We have several 
thousand, over 15,000, who have been injured and that are a part of our 
medical veterans programs throughout this country. Some are learning 
how to walk now. Many of our injuries come by what we call IEDs, 
improvised explosive devices.

Many of the troops, as we look at, you look at your local television 
station, I know you see it in Ohio. I know you see it in Massachusetts. 
We see it in South Florida. We even see it here in Washington, DC. 
There was a new reserve unit that just left in Maryland. And I was 
watching the interview, and I think about when I have to travel as a 
Congressman, you know, my family's up here, I go back to the District. 
You know, that is 2 or 3 days I am away from my family. I say, oh, my 
goodness, I miss the kids. Imagine if I was leaving for 15 months for 
the second or third time. Just imagine that. How much of, how my kids 
would be taken away, you know. They won't get what they need from me. 
Just thinking about it, I can't help but get a little emotional when 
you think about this kind of thing.

And we know that they are being sent to do what, secure Iraq. So they 
are on a security mission. They are not there to say, well, you know, 
we are here to provide technical assistance. No, they are there to 
armor up.

I have been there twice. Mr. Ryan, we went together. And when they go 
out the gates of that base in Mosul or Baghdad or Tikrit, they may not 
come back.

Now we know it is a volunteer force and we know all of that. But I 
just want to say, Mr. Speaker, this has great gravity tonight, and I am 
so glad that I am hearing voices out of this Congress saying, we said 
during the campaign and during the election season, we will not defund 
the troops that are on the ground.

But no one, including the President, including the Iraq Study 
Commission, including all of the folks, General Colin Powell, I mean, 
General Colin Powell said it is a civil war going on, and if we send 
additional troops into a civil war it is the wrong thing to do. It is 
right here.

So if the Republicans or the President wants to say when someone is 
smart or when someone is credible, when they are carrying their 
message, here is a man that has served, Secretary of State, General, 
four-star, Joint Chiefs of Staff, well respected in this country, along 
with a number of other folks that are out there. So I think, Mr. 
Speaker, it is important that we shed light on this.

I know Mr. Delahunt has an hour that he does on a weekly basis on 
Iraq. But, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I think it is time, no matter what, 
if you are a Democrat or a Republican, to be able to say, listen, I 
just came from the election, especially to Members that are new to the 
Congress, either in the Senate or in the House, and they heard what the 
American people had to say.

So, the President, I think, and this democracy needs to really speak 
up and say, hey, listen, we hear what you are saying. We know what the 
study group has said. But it seems like you are kind of out there by 
yourself.

Because, one other thing I just want to add and then I am going to be 
quiet probably for another 20 minutes, like Mr. Delahunt identified, is 
the fact that we see how many troops that have died.

All right, let's look at the U.S. contractors, these mercenaries we 
have out there, that are playing a role of when these countries are 
pulling out, Great Britain, they are out. They are coming out this 
year. A number of the other, quote, unquote, allies are pulling out of 
Iraq. So before we even get an opportunity to light the bulbs up in the 
committee room and start asking the questions about what has been going 
on over at the Department of Defense since everything has been 
classified and secret and no one has come and testified in front of 
these committees of jurisdiction, the President now wants to say, let's 
send 20,000 troops.

These are not new troops. These are individuals that are what we call 
a back draft. Folks want to leave. We have folks signing checks, giving 
them $40,000 to stay on. Are you going to go back to wherever you came 
from where the poverty is? Here is 40 grand. Take it to your family. 
Sign up for another 3 years. That is what we are talking about here.

And I am seeing these individuals that are hired, that are former 
military, by these companies, they are dying. When we went to the 
hospital over in Germany, there were contract fighters that carry out 
those convoys sitting there without a leg, Mr. Speaker. No one is 
thinking about these individuals because they are not wearing a U.S. 
uniform. They are veterans, and they want to work for these private 
contracting companies. So there is a lot of loss of life going on here, 
leave alone what could be happening with members of the CIA that we 
would never know how many of those individuals that have died in this 
conflict. So we have to bring the oversight management. I am saying 
that on the side of common sense.

I yield to any Member that wishes to pick up from this point, but it 
must be addressed.