# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2009
## `86734db854cd0aae5b9ed8ca672a8ec2`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 29 January 2009`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I very much thank the Senator from 
Illinois for his statement in several respects. One is that he 
complimented the Senator from Utah. That was the proper thing to do 
because the Senator from Utah has done a lot and led the way for 
children's health care. I thank the Senator for making that point very 
clear. It is true, Senator Hatch has been one of the real leaders in 
helping to protect kids. He worked a few years ago on the original 
Children's Health Insurance Program, and he, Senator Rockefeller, and 
the late Senator John Chafee were several of the prime movers to get 
children's health insurance passed in 1997.

I would like to say a word or two about the pending amendment offered 
by my good friend from Iowa, Senator Grassley. He mentioned--and, 
frankly, some of the speakers have mentioned--a lot about partisanship 
and seeking bipartisanship, and so forth. We all want to work together. 
That is clear. Frankly, to be honest, I do not like the word 
''partisanship.'' I do not like the word ''bipartisanship'' because 
that connotes there are two sides trying to force something together. 
I, rather, think we should--without sounding corny about it--just try 
to do what is right.

The amendment offered by my friend from Iowa, Senator Grassley, will 
have the effect of taking about three-quarters of the million children 
off the Children's Health Insurance Program or, to state it more 
accurately, if you take the current bill before us, we will 
add approximately 4 million children to the approximately 6 million 
children who are currently covered. We are told 10 million kids would 
be covered under the Children's Health Insurance Program.


Remember, the Children's Health Insurance Program is for low-income 
kids of the working poor. These are families who are not as poor as 
those who qualify for Medicaid. It is just the next level up, the 
working poor. They have had a real tough time making ends meet. The 
Children's Health Insurance Program is aimed at that group, at the 
working poor.

Under the legislation before us, not only will the 6 million who 
currently have children's health insurance coverage receive that care, 
but 4 million more will be covered under the bill for a total of 10 
million.

Cutting to the chase, the bottom line, the effect of the amendment 
offered by Senator Grassley will be to deny coverage to three-quarters 
of a million people who otherwise would be covered under the bill or, 
to state it in very gross terms, if the total under the bill is 10 
million covered, that means under the Grassley amendment it would be 
9.25 million covered; that is, about 750,000 kids could not be 
eligible. These are kids who currently in these times need help. These 
are kids with families where, most likely, the parent is having a hard 
time finding work or is maybe laid off, really struggling.

We know real wages have not gone up in this country at all in the 
last decade. Times are tough for a lot of people. They may have lost 
their house or are losing their house or they may find their rent has 
gone up even more. There are a lot of reasons people are facing tough 
economic times. These are the people we want to help.



Now, if these kids in working poor families do not get health 
insurance, we all know the consequences. One is deferred health care. 
They are not going to go to a doctor for checkups. They will not get 
their checkups. One is deferred medication. They do not get their 
medication. They will get sick more likely.

When they get sick, what happens? Well, if they get real sick, they 
probably have to go to the emergency room. What happens there? They get 
emergency care, deferred care. It is expensive care. It is postponed 
care.

Then what happens? Well, they get the care in the emergency room, but 
then what is the followup? They will not be seeing a doctor. They will 
not be seeing a pediatrician. They will not be seeing an internist, 
somebody who is a primary care doc, a family doc, who could follow up 
to make sure the child is doing well.

What else happens? Well, the costs in the emergency room are passed 
on to somebody else. Who are they passed on to? We all know they are 
passed on to the hospitals, they are passed on to the doctors, who then 
have to charge their private paying patients more. For those, frankly, 
who are so concerned about private health insurance--and we all are 
very much--the net effect of denying children coverage under the 
Children's Health Insurance Program is not only deferred care, it also 
means increased premiums for the private health insurance market. That 
makes it sort of a vicious circle: the higher the premiums go, the 
harder it is for people, for families to get private health insurance. 
It is a big problem.

You might ask, who are the 750,000 people the Grassley amendment 
would deny participation in the Children's Health Insurance Program? 
Really, his amendment basically strikes the bill on the floor and 
replaces it with what is called CHIP II. There is a big loss of 
coverage for perfectly legal immigrants. These are people in our 
country, frankly, who, for all intents and purposes, are Americans. 
They stood in line in some country legally to get to the point where 
they would enter our country. They are going through the process 
legally. They pay property taxes when they are in America, if they own 
real property. They, hopefully, pay some income taxes. That means they 
would have a decent job. They certainly pay sales taxes in this 
country. These are working people in our country.

They have served in our armed services. I am sure there are some over 
in Iraq, some in Afghanistan right now. These are perfectly legal folks 
in our country. The only difference is, they have to wait a little 
longer to get full citizenship. But they are in line doing all that 
they need to do under our law to get full citizenship.

They go to public schools in America. Legal immigrants go to school. 
Those are public programs. So it seems to me, if you have public 
programs, such as schools and the other public programs like that, then 
certainly children's health insurance should be fully available to them 
as well.

But, again, just as a basic reminder, the effect of the Grassley 
amendment is to deny health insurance to about three-quarters of a 
million people compared with the underlying bill. I do not think we 
want to deny coverage to the kids of the working poor who do need 
health insurance, especially during these very difficult economic 
times. So, therefore, I urge Senators not to support that amendment.