---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `8689fc3eb06e4070a38093360eeb3479`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 24 June 2009`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Chair, I have the honor of serving as the 
Chairman of the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of our Armed Services 
Committee. I would like to thank our Chairman, Ike Skelton, for his 
great leadership in bringing this outstanding bill to this point. I 
also welcome the new Ranking Member, Buck McKeon, and am confident that 
he and Chairman Skelton will make a great team.

I would also like to thank Roscoe Bartlett, our subcommittee's 
ranking member, for all his support and advice in putting our bill 
together.

This bill is about balancing the capabilities and readiness of our 
current military forces with desired future required military 
capabilities.

Our military personnel are at risk each and every day. Our first 
priority is to make sure those men and women are properly supported by 
ensuring our military programs adequately support current military 
requirements.

We are doing everything possible to provide our personnel in Iraq and 
Afghanistan the equipment they need as well as provide for the 
equipment needs of our National Guard units here at home, to meet 
crisis response and potential natural disaster requirements. The 
subcommittee's jurisdiction includes $82 billion in Department of 
Defense procurement and research and development in Titles I and II and 
another $20 billion in Title XV, for overseas contingency operations.

We have made nearly $3 billion in reallocations within the 
Subcommittee, funding higher priority current requirements, using funds 
from programs with excessive unexpended balances, delayed execution, 
and excessive cost growth.

Our Subcommittee increased the unfunded requirements of the Army and 
Air Force by over $1 billion by reallocating funding from these lower 
priority projects. The mark also provides an additional $603 million 
for procurement and research and development of the F136 competitive 
engine for the F-35 aircraft program. This is largely offset by 
rebalancing within the F-35 program, by reducing procurement from 32 to 
30 aircraft.

Nearly $2.7 billion is authorized for 176 Apache, Kiowa, Black Hawk, 
and Chinook helicopters and an additional $1.2 billion is provided for 
helicopter modifications. Our bill:

Fully funds elements of the Future Combat Systems program that will 
continue in some form, at $2.55 billion;

Provides $2.5 billion for new and upgraded Army ground combat 
vehicles;

Provides $263 million for research and development of future Army 
ground combat vehicle upgrades and improvements; and

Provides $600 million for National Guard and Reserve Equipment, above 
and beyond what is in the budget request.

The change by the National Guard to an operational reserve status, 
coincident with a reorganization of the Army, has greatly increased the 
amount of equipment Guard and Reserve units are required to have. While 
the Department is making improvements and progress in providing 
improved funding to equip the National Guard and Reserve to enhance its 
role as an operational reserve, there are a significant number of units 
that do not have their required equipment.

Given the operational reserve equipage model, a large percentage of 
nondeployed Army National Guard units are far below Army standards for 
equipment on hand. Without the right type and amounts of equipment, 
even the most dedicated and experienced soldier or airman cannot train 
for combat, or provide adequate assistance when there is a domestic 
emergency.

The committee continues to work on improving intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance, known as ISR capabilities, as well as 
improving counter improvised explosive device technology, vehicle 
armor, body armor, and helmet protection. Like many other mission areas 
in the Department of Defense, there is no apparent nexus for 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance joint strategy, 
requirements coordination, acquisition or deployment focus, where a 
single lead organization is responsible.

An example that can be cited is the unplanned and expensive 
proliferation of dissimilar ISR platforms all seeking to provide the 
same capability.

Coalition forces control the skies in both theaters and has the 
world's best ISR technology, but does not use this advantage to full 
advantage.

The Department still fails to provide joint ISR employment plans for 
both Iraq and Afghanistan. This bill directs the Department to assess 
the current use of ISR systems in Iraq and Afghanistan and make 
recommendations on how to more effectively coordinate and use all the 
systems we have deployed and plan to deploy.

The committee has in the past directed the Department to define joint 
ISR requirements and develop a long-term strategic plan to make 
informed acquisition decisions to meet ISR goals. That continues to be 
a work in progress.

















 body armor


It is widely reported that our soldiers in Afghanistan routinely 
carry loads of 130 to 150 lbs for a 3-day mission. Personnel can only 
wear so much armor, beyond which their operational effectiveness is 
inhibited, which in turn increases their risk of being injured. Two 
provisions in our bill require the Secretary of Defense, beginning with 
the fiscal year 2011 budget request, to establish research and 
development program elements and procurement budget line items for the 
development and acquisition of body armor and personnel protection 
enhancements.

The language also strongly encourages the Secretary of Defense to 
consider establishing a DOD-wide Task Force on par with the MRAP 
Vehicle Task Force to promote weight reduction initiatives for body 
armor.

The bill fully funds the President's request of approximately $700 
million for body armor.








mine Resistant ambush protected (MRAP) vehicles


With regard to the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle 
program, over 16,000 vehicles have been produced in just over two 
years. Approximately 15,000 vehicles have been fielded and these 
vehicles continue to save lives daily. Almost $26.0 billion has been 
provided by Congress for this program.

This bill fully funds the President's request of $5.45 billion for 
MRAP category vehicles. The request procures approximately 1,000 MRAP 
All-Terrain Vehicles, a lighter weight version of the current MRAP 
Vehicle, to be used in Afghanistan. The request also provides 
operation, maintenance, and sustainment funding as well as necessary 
funds to address home-station training requirements.













 tactical wheeled vehicles


The bill provides $5.25 billion for light, medium, and heavy tactical 
wheeled vehicles or ''Humvees'' and ''trucks.'' This funding keeps the 
industrial base operating at high levels of production and will help 
address shortfalls in the Guard and Reserve components. In closing, I 
again want to thank my distinguished chairman and ranking member of the 
full committee and our subcommittee.

H.R. 2647 is deserving of a ''yes'' vote from every Member of this 
body.