# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `868cfe0feb6053139f8d5d300e787cc5`
`Mr. BYRD — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, the fiscal year 2007 Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations bill, just approved by the Senate, includes over $96 
billion for the troops. It includes increases above the President's 
request for the Department of Defense, including increases of $1.3 
billion for defense health, $1 billion for equipping the National Guard 
and Reserve, and $1.1 billion for military housing.

The bill includes $6.7 billion for rebuilding the gulf coast region 
following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. It includes $4.2 billion 
for agricultural disaster relief. It includes nearly $1.8 billion for 
the VA to make sure that we meet our moral obligation to provide first-
class health care to our wounded veterans.

Most importantly, with passage of this bill, the Senate sends a clear 
message to the President that we must take the war in Iraq in a new 
direction. Setting a goal for getting most of our troops out of Iraq is 
not cutting and running. The new direction provides incentives to the 
Iraqi people to settle their differences, to end their civil war, and 
to pursue reconciliation. One fact is plainly clear: The President 
wants to run his war his way, without anyone asking any questions or 
requiring any standards of progress.

That is the kind of attitude that has resulted in the chaos we see in 
Iraq each day. President Bush does not want anyone to hold him 
accountable for the failures in Iraq. He does not want anyone to hold 
him responsible for our troops remaining caught in the escalating Iraqi 
civil war. The President has his eyes closed to the truth in Iraq.

Let me read excerpts from a letter I recently received from soldiers 
serving in and around Baghdad:




 We write you this letter. . . , Senator Byrd, because of 


 your prominent role as Chairman of the Appropriations 


 Committee, and because of your documented observation of the 


 alarming lack of debate within the Senate over the Iraq War.



 So much of the controversy surrounding the proposed surge 


 strategy has hinged on ''support for our troops.'' Yet, the 


 voice of the individual trooper is not heard. As volunteer 


 members of the military, we waive certain civil rights. We 


 cannot quit. We have a legal and moral responsibility to 


 carry out




 the orders given. We offer our bodies and minds, but 


 sacrifice our voices. Our voice is in our vote. Last 


 November, we voted for a Congress that would halt the 


 disastrous Iraq War. . . .



 Some of us are on our first tour, some our second or third, 


 and for one of us, fifth. We have done our duty, and will 


 continue to do so until our obligation is complete. Upon 


 completion of our obligation, we hope to close this unhappy 


 chapter in our lives and move forward. . . .



 Listening to the ongoing debate in the news, and the 


 conflicting views of our lawmakers, we hear again and again 


 accusations by one side of the other side's desire to 


 undercut the troops. We see these accusations as moral 


 blackmail. For it is overwhelmingly clear from all of our 


 experiences that despite the unpopularity of this war, the 


 American people have provided unfaltering moral support to 


 the men and women of the military. We implore lawmakers 


 to abandon these hollow accusations, and to focus on the 


 national interest as a whole. We earnestly hope for the 


 enactment of the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, 


 particularly those concerning the de-escalation of the war 


 and direct diplomatic engagement of Syria and Iran. We 


 encourage Congress to obstruct the escalation of this war 


 by any means possible.


Continuing to read from the letter, these solders said:




 Since the tragic events of September 11, 2001, we have 


 become painfully aware of our own vulnerability. We have 


 spent vast resources preparing for unknown disaster, fighting 


 an enemy that is ubiquitous, but not clearly defined. We are 


 fighting the specter of fear. This is an internal struggle 


 that we must reconcile. Our vision of the future has grown 


 clouded and ominous. We face a situation in Iraq that leaves 


 us with little hope for a satisfying outcome. As a nation, we 


 must recover from the trauma of 9/11 and abandon the 


 misguided policies we have pursued in its wake. Using the 


 military as our primary foreign policy tool has isolated us 


 and fueled worldwide resentment of us, and has not increased 


 our sense of security. Halting the Iraq war is America's 


 opportunity to change direction, to reengage the world, and 


 discourage terrorism and extremism by showing the world the 


 ingenuity of our people and our commitment to freedom and 


 democracy.


These are the written words of soldiers now serving in Iraq.

The American people want our troops out of Iraq. The Congress has 
said very clearly that we want our military to refocus on Osama bin 
Laden and his terrorist bases in Afghanistan. The President has said he 
will veto this bill. His administration has asserted that adding funds 
for caring for our wounded veterans, for rebuilding the gulf coast, for 
securing the homeland, and for agricultural disaster assistance is 
playing politics. What nonsense. With approval of this bill, Congress 
will have appropriated $448 billion for the war in Iraq, including $38 
billion for rebuilding Iraq. Certainly if we can spend $38 billion on 
rebuilding Baghdad, we can spend money on rebuilding the gulf coast, 
taking care of our veterans and protecting our agricultural economy.

I hope that the President will drop his rhetoric and instead work 
with Congress to craft a responsible plan to transition our forces from 
Iraq and refocus on bin Laden and his base of operations.

Instead of demonizing the Congress and engaging in rhetorical finger-
pointing, the President ought to work with Congress on legislation that 
is in the best interests of the country. I want to thank Senator 
Cochran, Senator Murray, Senator Reid, and Senator McConnell for their 
efforts this week in moving this bill through the Senate. I also want 
to thank the Appropriations Committee staff, including Terry Sauvain, 
Charles Kieffer, Peter Rogoff, B.G. Wright, Kate Fitzpatrick, Bruce 
Evans, Blake Thompson, and all of the Subcommittee staffs for their 
hard work on this bill.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.