# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `8698bf14adb40ea292d3af5e8ab572e1`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 20 May 2009`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise to give some views on 
Guantanamo. I have had the privilege of serving with the distinguished 
Senator who has just concluded his remarks on the Intelligence 
Committee of the Senate. But I strongly disagree with him. I would like 
to have the opportunity to make the case.

First of all, Guantanamo is not sovereign territory of the United 
States. Under a 1903 lease, however, the United States exercises 
complete jurisdiction and control over this naval base.

In December 2001, the administration decided to bring detainees 
captured overseas in connection with the war in Afghanistan and hold 
them there outside of our legal system. That was the point: To hold 
these detainees outside of the U.S. legal system.

This was revealed in a December 2001 Office of Legal Council 
memorandum by John Yoo of the Justice Department.

He wrote this:




 Finally, the Executive Branch has repeatedly taken the 


 position under various statutes that [Guantanamo] is neither 


 part of the United States nor a possession or territory of 


 the United States. For example, this Office [Justice] has 


 opined that [Guantanamo] is not part of the ''United States'' 


 for purposes of the Immigration and Naturalization Act . . . 


 Similarly, in 1929, the Attorney General opined that 


 [Guantanamo] was not a ''possession'' of the United States 


 within the meaning of certain tariff acts.


The memo concludes with this statement:




 For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that a district 


 court cannot properly entertain an application for a writ of 


 habeas corpus by an enemy alien detained at Guantanamo Bay 


 Naval Base, Cuba. Because the issue has not yet definitively 


 been resolved by the courts, however, we caution that there 


 is some possibility that a district court would entertain 


 such an application.


This set the predicate for Guantanamo: Keep these individuals outside 
of the reach of U.S. law, and set up a separate legal system to deal 
with them.

Now, was this right or wrong? It was definitively wrong, because 
since then the Supreme Court has rejected this position in four 
separate cases.

First, in Rasul v. Bush in 2004, the court ruled that American 
courts, in fact, do have jurisdiction to hear habeas and other claims 
from detainees held at Guantanamo.

Second, in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, also in 2004, the Court upheld the 
President's authority to detain unlawful combatants, but stated that 
this authority was not ''a blank check.'' In particular, the Court 
ruled that detainees who were U.S. citizens, such as Yasser Hamdi, had 
the rights that all Americans are guaranteed under the Constitution.

Third, in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld in 2006, the Court declared invalid the 
Pentagon's process for adjudicating detainees and extended to 
Guantanamo detainees the protection from cruel, inhuman, and degrading 
treatment found in Common Article Three of the Geneva Conventions.

The administration responded by pushing through Congress the Military 
Commissions Act. This legislation expressly eliminated habeas corpus 
rights and limited other appeals to procedure and constitutionality, 
leaving questions of fact or violations of law unresolvable by all 
Federal courts. This happens nowhere else in American law. But this 
Military Commissions Act was enacted in the fall of 2006.

That law was then challenged through the courts and overturned in the 
final Supreme Court decision in this area, Boumediene v. Bush, decided 
in 2008.

In Boumediene, the Supreme Court stated that the writ of habeas 
corpus applied to detainees even when Congress had sought to take away 
jurisdiction. It stated that detainees must be allowed access to 
Federal courts so that a judicial ruling on the lawfulness of their 
detention could be made.

Writing for the majority in the Boumediene decision, Justice Kennedy 
wrote the following:




 The laws and the Constitution are designed to survive, and 


 to remain in force, in extraordinary times. Liberty and 


 security can be reconciled; and in our system they are 


 reconciled within the framework of the law.


Several habeas petitions have been filed and reviewed in the DC 
Circuit since the Boumediene decision, and that process is ongoing 
today.

In sum, these four Supreme Court rulings make one thing exceedingly 
clear: The legal rights of these detainees are the same under the 
Constitution, whether they are kept on American soil or elsewhere.

Attempts to diminish or deny these legal rights have only served to 
delay the legal process at Guantanamo Bay.

In fact, only 3 of the roughly 750 detainees held at Guantanamo have 
been held to account for their actions.

One is David Hicks, an Australian. He pled guilty to charges and has 
since been released by the Australian Government.

Salim Hamdan, Bin Laden's driver, was found guilty of providing 
material support for terrorism by his military commission. He was 
sentenced to 5.5 years, but having already served 5 years in 
Guantanamo, he was released to Yemen in November of 2007.

Ali Hamza al Bahlul, a Yemeni who was al-Qaida's media chief, was 
found guilty of conspiracy and providing material support for terrorism 
in November of 2008. He refused to mount a defense on his own behalf 
and was given a life sentence.

Today, there are approximately 240 detainees incarcerated at 
Guantanamo.



In 2007, nearly 2 years ago, I introduced an amendment to the Defense 
authorization bill to close Guantanamo Bay within 1 year and transition 
all detainees out of that facility.

The amendment was cosponsored by 15 Senators. Unfortunately, it was 
not allowed to come up for debate.

Within 2 days of his inauguration, President Obama issued an 
Executive Order announcing the closure of Guantanamo within 1 year and 
ordering a review of each detainee.

Let me say this: I believe closing Guantanamo is in our Nation's 
national security interest. Guantanamo is used not only by al-Qaida but 
also by other nations, governments, and individuals, people good and 
bad, as a symbol of America's abuse of Muslims, and it is fanning the 
flames of anti-Americanism around the world.

As former Navy General Counsel Alberto Mora said in 2008:




 Serving U.S. flag-rank officers . . . maintain that the 


 first and second identifiable cause of U.S. combat deaths in 


 Iraq--as judged by their effectiveness in recruiting 


 insurgent fighters into combat--are, respectively the symbols 


 of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo.


I deeply believe closing Guantanamo is a very important part of the 
larger effort against terror and extremism. It is a part of the effort 
to show that Americans are not hypocritical, that we do not pass laws 
and then say that there is a certain group of people who are exempt 
from these laws.

Detentions at Guantanamo have caused tension between the United 
States and our allies--the allies we try to get to contribute more 
forces and other support for the war in Afghanistan, and they are a 
rallying point for the recruitment of terrorists.

So, closing it is a critical step in restoring America's credibility 
abroad, as well as restoring the value of the American judicial system.

The executive branch task force responsible for ensuring that 
Guantanamo closes within the year is reviewing the evidence on each of 
the roughly 240 detainees to determine the following:

Who can be charged with a crime and be prosecuted; who can be 
transferred to the custody of another country, like the 500 or so 
detainees who have already left Guantanamo; who poses no threat to the 
United States but cannot be sent to another nation; and, finally, who 
cannot be released because they do pose a threat but cannot be 
prosecuted, perhaps because the evidence against them is the 
inadmissible product of coercive interrogations.

Let me be clear. No one is talking about releasing dangerous 
individuals into our communities or neighborhoods as some would have us 
believe.

The best option is to prosecute the terrorists who plotted, 
facilitated, and carried out attacks against the United States.

Let's look at the record for a moment.

The United States has prosecuted individuals in Federal court for the 
bombings of U.S. Embassies and the 1993 World Trade Center attack. It 
has prosecuted individuals plotting to bomb airplanes, for attending 
terrorist training camps, and for inciting violent acts against the 
United States.

According to a report, ''In Pursuit of Justice: Prosecuting Terrorism 
Cases in the Federal Courts,'' issued in May of last year, more than 
100 terrorism cases since the beginning of 2001 have resulted in 
convictions.

The individuals held at Guantanamo pose no greater threat to our 
security than these individuals convicted of these crimes, who are 
currently held in prison in the United States and are no danger to our 
neighbors, to our communities. The Bush administration had estimated 
that out of the 240 detainees at Guantanamo, 60 to 80 could be 
prosecuted for crimes against the United States or its allies. Current 
efforts to try these cases are ongoing.

In the event that detainees cannot be tried in Federal court or in 
standard courts martial, the Obama administration has recently proposed 
revisions to military commissions. This is an issue we are going to 
have to look at very closely in the coming weeks.

Our system of justice is more than capable of prosecuting terrorists 
and housing detainees before, during, and after trial. We have the 
facilities to keep convicted terrorists behind bars indefinitely and 
keep them away from American citizens.

The Obama administration will determine which civilian and military 
facilities are best to accomplish these goals. One example is the 
supermax facility in Florence, CO.

It is not in a neighborhood or community. It is an isolated supermax 
facility. It has 490 beds. They are reserved for the worst of the 
worst. This facility houses not only drug kingpins, serial murderers, 
and gang leaders, but also terrorists who have already been convicted 
of crimes in the United States.

There have been no escapes, and it is far, as I said, from America's 
communities and neighborhoods, as are just about all the maximum and 
supermax facilities.

This facility has housed terrorists such as Ramzi Yousef, the 
mastermind of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, and at least six of 
his accomplices; Omar Abdel-Rahman, known as the ''Blind Sheikh,'' who 
was behind a plot to blow up New York City landmarks, including the 
United Nations; Richard Reid, the al-Qaida ''shoe bomber,'' who tried 
to blow up an airliner in flight; four individuals involved in the 1998 
bombings of Embassies of the United States in Kenya and Tanzania; Ahmed 
Ressam, the ''Millennium Bomber,'' who was detained at the Canadian 
border with explosives in his car as he was headed to the Los Angeles 
airport; Iyman Faris, the al-Qaida operative who plotted to blow up 
bridges in New York City; Jose Padilla, the U.S. citizen held for 3/1/
2/ years as an enemy combatant based on allegations that he had wanted 
to detonate a dirty bomb inside the United States and was later 
convicted of material support to terrorism; 9/11 conspirator Zacarias 
Moussaoui; the ''Unabomber,'' Theodore Kaczynski; and Oklahoma City 
bombers, one of whom is now deceased, Timothy McVeigh and Terry 
Nichols.

These 20 are just an example of terrorists who have been or are being 
held inside the United States.

So there is ample evidence that the United States can and, in fact, 
does hold dangerous convicts securely and without incident.

As I said earlier, I believe that not all detainees can be 
prosecuted.

The Bush administration had identified a second group of 60 to 80 who 
could be transferred out of Guantanamo, if another nation could be 
found that would accept them.

Again, the Obama administration is finding some success in moving 
these detainees abroad.

Since January of this year, there have been stories indicating that 
certain European nations may accept some of the detainees. A few days 
ago, France accepted an Algerian detainee from Guantanamo. These 
countries recognize that closing Guantanamo is in the best interests of 
everyone, and are willing to be part of the solution. We sincerely 
thank them.

Finally, let me address the third category of detainees, which 
presents the thorniest problem.

The Executive Order Task Force will likely determine that there are 
some detainees who can neither be tried, nor transferred, nor released. 
Secretary Gates recently testified that there were 50 to 100 of these 
detainees.

The President has the authority to detain such people under the laws 
of armed conflict, and he very well may need to exercise that 
authority. I would support his doing so.

In my view, this authority should be constrained and in keeping with 
the Geneva Conventions. Detainees should only be held following a 
finding by the executive branch that this action is legal under 
international law.

These detainees should have the right to have a U.S. court review 
this determination, much as the Boumediene decision guaranteed that 
habeas petitions of detainees will, in fact, be heard. That judicial 
determination should be reviewed periodically to determine whether the 
detainee remains a threat to national security and should continue to 
be detained.

In this, there is a protocol that I believe will stand court scrutiny 
and enable the President to continue the detention of everyone who 
remains a national security threat to the United States.

Guantanamo, despite all the rhetoric on this floor, has been a symbol 
of abuse and disregard for the rule of law


for too long. Four Supreme Court decisions should convince even the 
most recalcitrant of those among us; it is in our own national security 
interests that Guantanamo be closed as quickly and as carefully as 
possible.

The fact is, no Member of Congress wants to see, or advocates, the 
reckless release of terrorists, or anyone who is a threat to our 
national security, into our communities. It does not have to, and it 
will not be done that way.

Of the 240 detainees at Guantanamo right now, some can be tried. Some 
have been declared not to be enemy combatants. Others may need to be 
detained in the future, but only in a way that is consistent with our 
laws and our national security interests.

I believe we should close Guantanamo. I support the President in this 
regard. This is a very important decision we are going to make. I very 
much regret that this amount was in the supplemental bill without a 
plan, and I think that is the key. The plan was not there. How would 
the money be used? Nobody knew. So it fell smack-dab into the trap that 
some want to spring throughout the United States: That this 
administration or this Senate would release detainees into the 
neighborhoods and communities of the United States.

As shown on this chart, this supermax facility is not in a 
neighborhood or a community. Yes, we have maximum security prisons in 
California eminently capable of holding these individuals as well, and 
from which people do not escape.

I believe this has been an exercise in fear-baiting. I hope it is not 
going to be successful because I believe American justice is what makes 
this country strong in the eyes of the world. American justice is what 
people believe separates the United States from other countries. 
American justice has to be applied to everyone because, if it is not, 
we then become hypocrites in the eyes of the world.

We should return to our values. One of the largest symbols of 
returning to these values is, in fact, the closure of the facility at 
Guantanamo Bay.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.