---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `869da489a2646a3da0a2fa1a22b1af97`
`Mr. OBAMA — 4 January 2007`

---


Mr. OBAMA. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that 
is significant both in the problems it seeks to address and the man it 
seeks to honor.

Since the day he arrived in Congress more than two decades ago, Lane 
Evans was a tireless advocate for the men and women with whom he 
served. When Vietnam vets started falling ill from Agent Orange, he led 
the effort to get them compensation. Lane was one of the first in 
Congress to speak out about the health problems facing Persian Gulf War 
veterans. He worked to help veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder, and he also helped make sure thousands of homeless 
veterans in our country have a place to sleep. Lane Evans fought these 
battles for more than 20 years, and even in the face of his own 
debilitating disease, he kept fighting. Today, veterans across America 
have Lane Evans to thank for reminding this country of its duty to take 
care of those who have risked their lives to defend ours.

I am very proud today to introduce the Lane Evans Veterans Healthcare 
and Benefits Improvement Act of 2007. This bill honors a legislator who 
left behind an enduring legacy of service to our veterans. The 
legislation also is an important step towards caring for our men and 
women who are currently fighting for us.

I am being joined today by Senator Olympia Snowe, the lead cosponsor 
of this bill. Senator Snowe has long been an advocate for veterans in 
her state, and I have been honored to work with her in the past on 
veterans issues. We have fought to reduce the backlog of disability 
claims at the Veterans Benefits Administration and to improve the 
military's ability to identify and treat Traumatic Brain Injury. Our 
introduction of the Lane Evans Bill is a continuation of these efforts.

Today, more than 1.5 million American troops have been deployed 
overseas as part of the Global War on Terror. These brave men and women 
who protected us are beginning to return home. Six hundred thousand 
people who served in Iraq and Afghanistan are now veterans, and more 
than 185,000 have already received treatment at the VA. That number is 
increasing every day. Many of these fighting men and women are coming 
home with major injuries. As a country, we are only beginning to 
understand the true costs of the Global War on Terror.

The Government Accountability Office reported that VA has faced $3 
billion in budget shortfalls since 2005 because it underestimated the 
costs of caring for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. The VA wasn't 
getting the information it needed from the Pentagon and was relying on 
outdated data and incorrect forecasting models. We cannot let these 
kind of bureaucratic blunders get in the way of the care and support we 
owe our servicemembers.

To avoid these costly shortfalls in the future, we have to do a 
better job keeping track of veterans. That's why the first thing the 
Lane Evans Act does is to establish a system to track Global War on 
Terror veterans. The VA established a similar data system following the 
Persian Gulf War. That effort has been invaluable in budget planning as 
well as in monitoring emerging health trends and diseases linked to the 
Gulf War. The Gulf War Veterans Information System also has been 
important to medical research and improved care for veterans. The 
sooner we begin keeping accurate track of our fighting men and women in 
Iraq, Afghanistan and beyond, the better and more efficiently we will 
be able to care for them.

The Lane Evans Act also tackles Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. 
Mental health patients account for about one-third of the new veterans 
seeking care at the VA. The VA's National Center for PTSD reports that 
''the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are the most sustained combat 
operations since the Vietnam War, and initial signs imply that these 
ongoing wars are likely to produce a new generation of veterans with 
chronic mental health problems.''

This bill addresses PTSD in two ways. First, it extends the window 
during which new veterans can automatically get care for mental health 
from two years to five years. Right now, any servicemember discharged 
from the military has up to two years to walk into a VA facility and 
get care, no questions asked. After that, vets have to prove that they 
are disabled because of a service-connected injury, or they have to 
prove their income is below threshold levels. Unfortunately, it can 
take years for symptoms of PTSD to manifest. The time it takes to prove 
service-connection for mental health illness is valuable time lost 
during which veterans are not receiving critically needed treatment. 
The Lane Evans Act allows veterans to walk into a VA facility any time 
five years after discharge and get assessed for mental health care. 
This both extends the window and shortens the wait for vets to get 
care.

Second, the legislation makes face-to-face physical and mental health 
screening mandatory 30 to 90 days after a soldier is deployed in a war 
zone. This will ensure that our fighting force is ready for battle, and 
that we can identify and treat those at risk for PTSD. By making the 
exams mandatory, we can help eliminate the stigma associated with 
mental health screening and treatment.

Another problem veterans face is that the VA and DoD do not 
effectively share medical and military records. Older veterans often 
have to wait years for their benefits as the Department of Defense 
recovers aging and lost paper records. Under the Lane Evans Act, the 
Department of Defense would provide each separating service member at 
the time of discharge with a secure full electronic copy of all 
military and medical records to help them apply for healthcare and 
benefits. DoD possesses the technology to do this now. The information 
could be useful to VA to quickly and accurately document receipt of 
vaccinations or deployment to a war zone. The electronic data will also 
be helpful in future generations when family members of veterans seek 
information about military service, awards, and wartime deployment that 
go well beyond the existing single-sheet DD-214 discharge certificate, 
which is all veterans currently receive.

Finally, the legislation improves the transition assistance that 
National Guardsmen and military reservists receive when they return 
from deployment. A 2005 GAO report found that because demobilization 
for guardsmen and reservists is accelerated, reserve units get 
abbreviated and perfunctory transition assistance including limited 
employment training. VA should provide equal briefings and transition 
services for all service members regarding VA healthcare, disability 
compensation, and other benefits, regardless of their duty status.

Lane Evans dedicated his life to serving this country and serving 
veterans. The legislation Senator Snowe and I are introducing today, 
honors both the man and his mission, and will continue his legacy to 
the next generation of American veterans.