---
---

# RESTORING AMERICAN FINANCIAL STABILITY ACT OF 2010
## `86acbc12577f310077b253cf4d744c7d`
`Mr. DORGAN — 30 April 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, yesterday there was a hearing in the 
Senate on the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty we have negotiated with 
Russia. I was not on the committee, but there was testimony by Dr. 
James Schlesinger and Dr. William Perry, two of the most veteran arms 
control experts, who came to the Foreign Relations Committee and said 
they support the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia.

I was in Russia a couple weeks ago and had an opportunity to tour a 
number of sites that we are actually funding from the United States 
through the Cooperative Threat Reduction program, the partnership we 
have with Russia in a number of areas, stemming from, among other 
things, what is called the Nunn-Lugar law, the Nunn-Lugar program. I 
have long supported the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program called 
Nunn-Lugar, named after two of my colleagues, Senators Sam Nunn and 
Richard Lugar.

In the early 1990s, they wrote legislation that allows us to work 
with the Russians and other former Soviet states to deactivate nuclear 
weapons and to destroy delivery systems.

I wish to show a couple of the photographs and if I might show 
something I have had in my desk for a while. I ask unanimous consent to 
do that. This is a photograph of a blackjack Russian bomber being 
dismantled. This is the wing strut from that bomber. I have a piece 
that was sawed off from the bomber's wing strut in my desk simply 
because it was given to me, and I thought it was so significant that 
the wing of a Soviet bomber that used to carry nuclear weapons, part of 
that wing is now in my Senate desk, not because we shot the Russian 
bomber down; it is because we actually provided the funding to saw the 
wings off and destroy the bomber. That is success.

This is a photograph of a missile silo in the Ukraine. I have in my 
desk, as well, a hinge. This hinge came from that missile silo. That 
missile silo held an SS-18 missile with a nuclear warhead aimed at the 
United States of America.


Now, where that missile silo once existed, with a missile and a 
warhead aimed at America, is now a field of sunflowers. You can see 
from this picture the missile silo was blown up, dismantled. I actually 
have a piece of the hinge. What a great success. The missile silo did 
not have a missile delivered to destroy a city in America. We actually 
spent the money to pay for the destruction of the missile silo under 
the Nunn-Lugar program. What a spectacular success that is.

This next picture is of a submarine being dismantled. It is a Russian 
submarine. It is a Typhoon class ballistic missile submarine, and it 
would have carried missile tubes, and those missile tubes in that 
submarine under the water would have contained nuclear warheads that 
would have been used to destroy our country.

Here, in this picture, is an example of the missile tubes on that 
submarine. These too were destroyed. I have a little vile of copper 
wire that was ground up that came from that submarine. Now, we did not 
sink that submarine in an act of warfare. We actually paid to have that 
submarine dismantled and the copper wiring ground up. I have some of 
the copper wiring here in my desk, just to remind us how important this 
program has been.

Now, we have on this Earth about 25,000 nuclear weapons, roughly. 
This comes from the Union of Concerned Scientists in 2010. It is 
estimated Russia has about 15,000 nuclear weapons; the U.S. probably 
about 9,000-plus; China, a couple hundred; France, several hundred; 
Britain, a couple hundred. So here is the quantity of nuclear weapons 
on our planet. The question is, What would happen if someday in some 
way someone detonates a nuclear weapon in the middle of a major city on 
this planet? I know what will happen. It will change life on Earth as 
we know it.

So let me describe a story. And keep in mind, we have 25,000 nuclear 
weapons on the planet. Let me describe a story. One month after 9/11, a 
CIA agent nicknamed Dragonfire reported to the CIA that he had evidence 
that a 10-kiloton Russian nuclear weapon had been stolen and had been 
smuggled into New York City and was to be detonated. That was 1 month 
after 9/11. It was October 11, 2001, to be exact. Dragonfire reported 
that al-Qaida terrorists had stolen a 10-kiloton nuclear bomb from the 
Russian arsenal and may have smuggled it into New York City.

It was not reported at that point, but there was an apoplectic 
seizure here. The President and others who had this information were 
not sure whether it was accurate or not. It was a report from a CIA 
agent, and they--just in the shadow, 1 month later, of 9/11 of course--
were very much on their guard. Our country was pretty much shocked by 
everything that happened.

So this report by Dragonfire meant that Vice President Cheney moved 
to a secret mountain facility, along with several hundred government 
employees, we are told. So they were the core of an alternative 
government that would operate if Washington, DC, were destroyed by a 
nuclear weapon.

We are told that President Bush dispatched a nuclear emergency 
support team to New York to search for a weapon. To not cause panic, no 
one in New York City was informed of the threat, not even the mayor of 
New York. After a few weeks, the intelligence community determined that 
Dragonfire's report of someone having stolen a Russian nuclear weapon 
and smuggling it into this country was probably a false alarm.

But when they did the post-mortem on it, they all understood it was 
perfectly possible that a nuclear weapon could have been stolen from 
the Russian arsenal, perfectly possible that a nuclear weapon could 
have been smuggled in to New York City or Washington, DC, and possible 
for terrorists to disarm the safeguards and explode the bomb.

No one said it was impossible that a terrorist group would want to 
kill several hundred thousand Americans with one bomb in the middle of 
an American city. On the contrary, all of the experts knew this was 
possible. Now, all of that--by the way--all of that angst was about one 
10-kiloton, rather small Russian nuclear weapon reported by a CIA agent 
to have been stolen.

But there is more than one nuclear weapon; there are 25,000 nuclear 
weapons on this planet. Think of the concern about the potential 
stealing of one, and then ask the question, What do we have to do to 
make sure that nuclear weapons that now exist are safeguarded, that 
there is adequate security, and, even more important, that we stop the 
spread of nuclear weapons to others, other countries, and certainly 
terrorist groups who want to acquire nuclear weapons?

The description of Dragonfire's report comes from a former Clinton 
administration official, Graham Allison, an expert on nuclear 
proliferation. He wrote about the incident in a book called ''Nuclear 
Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe.'' The description I 
have just read is a part of the book by Mr. Allison.

Now, even though the Cold War ended two decades ago, we still have, 
as I have indicated, about 25,000 nuclear weapons in the world. Mr. 
President, 95 percent of them are owned by the United States or by 
Russia. We are now operating under the Strategic Offensive Reduction 
Treaty, also known as the Moscow Treaty. It requires the United States 
and Russia, by our agreement, to have no more than 2,200 
''operationally deployed'' strategic nuclear weapons by 2012. But it 
does not do anything to restrict nuclear delivery vehicles--bombers, 
missiles, submarines. And it does not have any verification measures. 
It expires in 2012.

A few weeks ago President Obama and Russian President Medvedev met


in Prague, the Czech Republic, and signed a new strategic arms control 
treaty. It is called START. It limits each side to 1,550 deployed 
strategic nuclear warheads--30 percent lower than the existing treaty. 
It limits each side to 800 deployed and nondeployed ICBM launchers, 
SLBM launchers, and heavy bombers equipped for nuclear armaments--one-
half of what the START treaty allowed. It sets a separate limit of 700 
deployed ICBMs, deployed SLBMs, and deployed heavy bombers that are 
equipped. It has verification regimes for on-site inspections, 
telemetry exchanges, data exchanges, and so on.

Now, I know this treaty will be controversial in some quarters, but I 
want to describe what ADM Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, has said just in the last month, because some are worried about 
whether our nuclear weapons work, whether our stockpile is reliable. 
What if we use it? Can we expect it to work? Well, the other side of 
the nuclear debate is, if you use it, you probably will never be around 
to wonder whether it works. I think the face of this Earth will change 
if there is ever an exchange of nuclear weapons of any kind between 
adversaries that have multiple nuclear weapons.

ADM Michael Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, says:




 I, the Vice Chairman, and the Joint Chiefs, as well as our 


 combatant commanders around the world, stand solidly behind 


 this new treaty, having had the opportunity to provide our 


 counsel, to make our recommendations, and to help shape the 


 final agreements.


So the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs says they are satisfied with this 
treaty, believe it is a good treaty.

Linton Brooks says something very important. He is the former NNSA, 
National Nuclear Security Administration, Administrator from 2003 to 
2007. He says:




 START . . . is a good idea on its own merits, but . . . for 


 those who think it's only a good idea if you only have a 


 strong weapons program, I think this budget ought to take 


 care of that.


He is talking about the budget the President has sent to the Congress 
for life extension programs and the other things we do to make sure the 
nuclear stockpile is up to date.

He said:




 Coupled with the out-year projections, it takes care of the 


 concerns about the complex and it does very good things about 


 the stockpile and it should keep the labs healthy. . . .


He said:




 . . . I would've killed for this kind of budget.


The reason I mention this is that we have people coming to the floor 
of the Senate now, and in public discussion--and Douglas Feith is an 
example of them. He says:




 Since the administration is so eager for [the treaty], the 


 main interests of conservatives will relate to modernization. 


 Republicans are interested in the U.S. nuclear posture, the 


 political leverage they have will be the treaty. . . .One of 


 the hot issues is going to be the replacement warhead. . . .


What does that mean? That means we have had people in this Chamber 
and others--including the neocons, and Mr. Feith and others--they have 
always wanted to begin building new nuclear weapons. It started with: 
What we need to do is, we need to build new designer nuclear weapons. 
We need to build earth-penetrating bunker-buster weapons so we can use 
them. In Afghanistan there were some folks who were hold up down, well 
underground, and so: What we need to do is develop designer nuclear 
weapons, earth-penetrating bunker-buster nuclear weapons.

Well, Senator Feinstein and I and some others got that abolished. It 
makes no sense to me for us to be off building new nuclear weapons. It 
just does not make any sense. The fact that the bunker-buster earth-
penetrator was not built--that does not matter--then they came with the 
RRW, reliable replacement weapons. Substantial costs of additional 
funding to build new nuclear weapons called the replacement weapons.

Here are some statements by some skeptical U.S. Senators about this 
START treaty:




 Well, I can tell you this, that I think the Senate will 


 find it very hard to support this treaty if there is not a 


 robust modernization plan. . . .


Another Senator:




 The success of your administration in ensuring the 


 modernization plan is fully funded in the authorization and 


 appropriations process could have a significant impact on the 


 Senate. . . .


It means you have to be building additional nuclear weapons, you have 
to spend X amount of money here and there in order for us to support 
the START treaty.

Another Senator says:




 My vote on the START treaty will thus depend in large 


 measure on whether I am convinced the administration has put 


 forward an appropriate and adequately funded plan to sustain 


 and modernize the smaller nuclear stockpile it envisions.


Let my say what the JASON says about all this. It is an organization 
that really knows what it is talking about and issues a lot of reports 
with respect to the science of nuclear weapons, because some have said: 
We have to build a lot of new nuclear weapons here because the nuclear 
weapons we have--dealing with the degradation of the pits and other 
things--we are not going to be able to have confidence they even work. 
So here is what the JASON says:




 JASON finds no evidence that accumulation of changes 


 incurred from aging and LEPs--


Life extension programs--



 have increased risk to certification of today's deployed 


 nuclear warheads.


They are saying, quite clearly, there is no evidence there is an 
increased risk to be able to certify that our nuclear stockpile is 
reliable.




 Lifetimes of today's nuclear warheads could be extended for 


 decades, with no anticipated loss in confidence, by using 


 approaches similar to those employed in [the life extension 


 programs] to date.


So to those who want to go off and spend a lot of money building new 
nuclear weapons, at a time when we are deep in debt, and leverage that 
in exchange for voting on the START treaty, I say you are wrong. You 
are just dead wrong. We have to get about the business of reducing 
nuclear weapons. We have to get about the business of agreeing to 
treaties like this because it is our responsibility. It falls on our 
shoulders here in the United States to be the world leader to steer us 
away from nuclear catastrophe.

Now, I understand nobody is talking about disarmament here. But we 
are talking about a circumstance where there is able to be 
certification that our nuclear stockpile is reliable. That certainly 
ought to satisfy the appetite of those who want to build more nuclear 
weapons. We should not be building more nuclear weapons. What kind of a 
message does that send to the rest of the world? We have 25,000 nuclear 
weapons on the planet already--the loss of one which caused an 
apoplectic seizure around this place, for those who knew it, because 
they wondered what would happen.

Mr. President, 9/11 was several thousand people. What would happen if 
several hundred thousand people were murdered with a nuclear weapon 
being exploded in a major city--and not just a U.S. city, any major 
city on this planet? It will dramatically alter life on this planet.

So I just wanted to say, this START treaty--I commend the President: 
a job well done. This is a very good and important treaty for our 
country and for the world. I am going to be strongly supporting it. We 
will have sufficient resources--the President has seen to it--
sufficient resources for the life extension program to make sure our 
nuclear stockpile is reliable.


This President has said, to his credit, that our job, our 
responsibility as a world leader is to provide leadership to stop the 
spread of nuclear weapons, to do everything that is necessary to keep 
nuclear weapons out of the hands of terrorists and rogue nations. Our 
job is to find ways to reduce the number of nuclear weapons on this 
planet.

The President of the United States hosted at the convention center 
here in Washington, DC, I think the largest gathering, perhaps, of its 
kind in history, of world leaders who came here to talk about securing 
loose nuclear materials and nuclear weapons. Some make light of that: 
Well, a little gathering; good for all them. No one should make light 
of that gathering. It was historic and unbelievably important. A very 
small amount of highly enriched uranium--the size of a 2-liter of soda 
in the store--is enough to build a nuclear weapon. The loose nuclear 
materials, highly enriched uranium and plutonium that is available 
around the


world, must be gathered together and must be safeguarded and kept out 
of the hands of terrorist organizations. That is what this President 
was doing: cementing together the will and the agreement with other 
leaders from around the world to do that. That is unbelievably 
important. No one should make light of that and everyone should 
understand the historic importance of what this President has done.

Finally, this START treaty, as I indicated, I think has much to be 
commended to this country, and this Senate ought not find itself in the 
kind of dispute it almost always has on everything these days. If there 
is anything this Senate ought to be able to agree upon, it is that it 
is our responsibility and in our interests--in our long-term survival 
interests--to find ways to reduce the number of nuclear weapons on this 
planet, reduce delivery vehicles, and reach agreements with adversaries 
and potential adversaries so all of us understand that we cannot allow 
a nuclear weapon to fall into the hands of terrorist organizations.

I commend the administration. I hope on a bipartisan basis we can 
give a very strong vote to the START treaty when the hearings are 
completed and when we have a debate on it on the floor of the Senate.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum.