# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `86b647d92300bf29653b9461c38c0e53`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from 
Wisconsin for his leadership on this issue. As someone who voted 
against this war from its outset, I rise in strong support of the 
Feingold-Reid amendment. The last time we gathered to vote on a change 
of course in Iraq was July 18, approximately 2 months ago. Since that 
day, the Iraqi Parliament, with its country in the grips of a civil 
war, with much work to do to achieve political reconciliation, took a 
month-long vacation. Since that day, four bombs were set off in concert 
in northern Iraq, leaving more than 500 dead, the deadliest coordinated 
attack since the beginning of the war. Since that day, despite a much 
ballyhooed cease-fire in Al Anbar, Shiek Abu Risha, our main ally in 
the province, was murdered, a mere 10 days after he shook hands with 
President Bush. Since that day in July when we last had a chance to 
change course, another 160 sons and daughters of America have lost 
their lives in Iraq. Another 160 flag-draped caskets flown to Dover, 
another 160 renditions of ''Taps'' played at tear-soaked funerals, 
another 160 American families who will have an empty seat at the table 
come Thanksgiving.

So here we are again. The calendar changes but the challenges do not. 
Yet again we meet on the Senate floor to consider another proposal to 
responsibly and safely transition our mission in Iraq and bring our 
troops home, out of another country's civil war. Yet again, as we have 
heard many times before through the course of this failed war policy, 
the President and his loyalists in this Chamber are using that tired 
refrain: The plan is working. It needs more time. We cannot leave.

Now, as then, these words ring hollow. The administration that 
brought us the search for weapons of mass destruction, the 
''cakewalk,'' and ''last throes'' is now pitching ''a return on 
success.'' But this President lost his credibility on Iraq about the 
time he stood on an aircraft carrier underneath a banner reading 
''mission accomplished,'' almost 4/1/2/ long years ago. The 
administration may be shopping a new catch phrase, but we are not 
buying anything they are selling anymore. The President, armed with 
questionable statistics, presented us an open-ended, no-exit plan for 
the sons and daughters of America who continue to fight and die in 
Iraq. As a matter of fact, he said it will be up to the next President, 
in 2009 and beyond.

The reality is that ''a return on success'' is ''staying the course'' 
by another name. We have tried this road. We have gone down it for 4/1/
2/ years, with no turn of the wheel. Going down this road has diverted 
attention from Osama bin Laden, who is back in business and roaming 
free in a safe zone along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has 
fomented terrorism, creating a training ground in Iraq and allowing al-
Qaida to regroup to its strongest level since September 11, according 
to intelligence estimates. It has stretched our military thin, wearing 
down troops serving extended


tours, depleting our Reserves and National Guard, and compromising 
national security with a diminished preparedness to tackle other 
international threats. It has cost us dearly in national treasure and, 
most importantly, precious lives.

Going down this road has not brought stability to Iraq nor made us 
any safer at home. It is clear we are being driven down a dead-end 
street by an administration without a roadmap for a lasting peace. Now 
they expect the American people to buy the no-exit occupation they are 
selling, the deployment of more than 130,000 American troops for as far 
in the future as the eye can see. No end in sight?


Today we are living with the consequences of the administration's 
failed policy. Over 3,700 troops have been killed in Iraq since the 
beginning of the war, including 97 servicemembers with ties to the 
State of New Jersey. We have now spent over $450 billion on the war in 
Iraq, with a burn rate of $10 billion a month. Frankly, I never 
believed the administration's estimate that the so-called surge would 
only cost $5.6 billion, and these new numbers only prove once again we 
have been misled.

Despite the meager improvements in the Anbar Province cited in 
General Petraeus's report last week, the situation in Iraq continues to 
grow worse. Sectarian violence surrounding Baghdad has surged this past 
week in connection with the holy month of Ramadan. At least 22 people 
have been killed in a series of bombings and shootings in Diyala and 
Kirkuk. Moreover, GEN William Caldwell has reported there is evidence 
Sunni extremist groups in Iraq have been receiving funds from Iran. In 
terms of reconstruction, oil production in Iraq is still lower than it 
was before the war 4/1/2/ years ago, and Baghdad is getting 
approximately 7 hours of electricity a day, significantly less than 
before the war.

How can we be expected to support a war plan about which every 
independent report portrays a situation of chaos far away from 
stability or political reconciliation? In fact, according to the latest 
report card on Iraqi progress, the President's war policy is still 
flunking. Even if the debatable metrics used to compile the report are 
solid, half of the benchmarks have not even seen a minimal amount of 
progress. Now that it is clear the benchmarks are perhaps impossible to 
achieve with our current strategy, we see a concerted effort to play 
them down in terms of their importance.

In General Petraeus's testimony, it was evident. The original goals 
of the escalation, to give the Iraqi Government and political factions 
breathing room to achieve reconciliation, have not been met. The 
benchmarks are now an afterthought and success is being measured in 
different and less stringent terms. It is a recurring pattern that no 
longer fools anyone: Make a bold proclamation, fail to meet 
expectations, fail to meet legally established benchmarks brought in by 
the Iraqi Government as well as our own, passed in law by the Congress, 
signed by the President, change the discussion. Moving the goalposts 
may appease some in this Chamber, but it does not help us achieve a 
lasting peace that is ultimately more important.

When all else fails, the President and his supporters often respond 
to rightful criticism of their disastrous war plan with a question 
meant to change the subject: What are your ideas? What they fail to 
realize is a majority of Congress and an overwhelming majority of the 
American public have long been unified behind a course of action that 
we believe gives us the best chance for success and security, both in 
Iraq and at home. That is the purpose of this amendment. A responsible 
transition of our mission and withdrawal of our troops from Iraq on one 
hand gives a sense of urgency to the Iraqi Government and security 
forces that is currently absent. Until they actually believe we will 
not be there forever, they will not take control of their own country. 
At the same time, bringing our troops home allows our overburdened 
military to regroup. It allows us to have the capability to respond to 
other threats in the world that might arise. It allows the 
replenishment of our National Guard which is currently stretched so 
thin that response to disasters in the homeland has been affected. 
Yesterday it was announced that half the Army National Guard in my 
State of New Jersey--that is 6,200 soldiers--will be deployed as soon 
as next year, almost 2 years before the deployment was originally 
scheduled. That will leave our National Guard at half strength in a 
State at serious risk for a terrorist attack. That is 6,200 soldiers 
taken away from their loved ones to be tossed into another country's 
civil war.

Most important about our plan and this amendment, it allows American 
families who have been separated and stressed by an ill-conceived war 
to be made whole again. The alternative is an endless occupation in 
Iraq with more American blood spilled and no light at the end of the 
tunnel.

Throughout this war many have drawn the obvious parallels between 
this failed war policy and another quagmire 40 years ago. The 
comparison in some respects is valid and important. It is said those 
who do not learn the lessons of history are doomed to repeat it. 
Because I fear history is being repeated, I wish to draw upon the words 
of Robert Kennedy, who served in this Chamber and delivered this 
statement about the Vietnam War in March of 1968:




 We are entitled to ask--we are required to ask--how many 


 more men, how many more lives, how much more destruction will 


 be asked, to provide the military victory that is always just 


 around the corner, to pour into this bottomless pit of our 


 dreams?



 But this question the Administration does not and cannot 


 answer, it has no answer. It has no answer--none but the 


 ever-expanding use of military force and the lives of our 


 brave soldiers in a conflict where military force has failed 


 to solve anything in the past.


Our past teaches us our current struggle and our current predicament 
are best solved by a new course. Future generations will judge this war 
policy and the choice to continue it indefinitely harshly. They will 
still be paying the price. We have another opportunity today to write 
an end to this sad chapter, to turn the page and recommit to 
strengthening the military and targeting Osama bin Laden. We have the 
opportunity to change history for the better.

I urge my colleagues to begin that change today and vote for a new 
course in Iraq by supporting the Feingold amendment.

I yield the floor.