---
---

# None
## `86bd8778eff01dae23a476e64573674a`
`Mr. CARTER — 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARTER. Madam Speaker, I want to rise today before this House to 
talk about something that weighs on the conscience of every Member in 
this House, a news story that broke very recently that has upset us 
all, the conditions at Walter Reed Hospital. Many Members of Congress 
have gone out there and looked at these conditions, and we are shocked 
by them.

Every Member that I have spoken to is as concerned as I am. I am 
particularly concerned because I am from a district that I would argue 
has probably put more fighters in this war than any district in 
America, having Fort Hood, Texas, a two division post, the only two 
division post in the Army in my district. The 4th Infantry Division and 
the 1st Cavalry Division, along with the 3rd Corps, have deployed now 
to Iraq on three separate occasions each. The 3rd Corps and the 1st 
Cavalry are over there right now as we speak and the 4th Infantry 
Division is gearing back up to go back.

Our soldiers have given a lot of their blood, sweat and tears to this 
war. They believe in their mission and they go to their mission as 
heroes, as far as I am concerned. And to learn that someone, whoever 
they may be, from whatever post in America or around the world, would 
have substandard conditions at what is supposed to be one of the two or 
three premier medical facilities for our Army in the country, shocks me 
and concerns me.

I would think it concerns every Member of this Congress, whether they 
are for this war or whether they are against it. But for me in 
particular, having 50,000 soldiers that depend on me and other Members 
of this Congress to make sure that we have an adequate facility that 
gives the absolute best medical care that we can give, that we have 
that, is important. It is very important. It is actually lifesavingly 
critical.

Now, first, to get the right picture, I have been to Walter Reed. I 
have been there on multiple occasions. I have visited one patient as he 
cycled through there a 9-month period of time, maybe even longer than 
that.

I will tell you that the emergency care, the intensive care that was 
given in that unit, I can't say enough good about the doctors, the 
nurses, the orderlies and everyone who was doing the work there. I 
think that they gave outstanding service, the kind of service we would 
expect for our soldiers.

The trauma medicine that is developing and has developed in the 
military today, from a medical standpoint, and I am no doctor, but I 
have sat in a courtroom and heard an awful lot of medical testimony, 
the trauma treatment that we have for our soldiers today is, quite 
frankly, state-of-the-art in what they can do to save lives, and we, by 
the procedures we have set up for our soldiers, are saving a lot of 
lives.

But then we learn that people who are there as holdovers, who are at 
the recovery side of their phase through Walter Reed, are being housed 
in substandard housing, where there were rodents and infestations of 
insects, where there was black mold, which I happen to have personal 
firsthand experience with, having been moved out of my house for a 
little over a year because of stachybotrys, black mold, and having had 
my house totally wrecked to get that stuff out of it. I am very 
familiar with the health hazards that are claimed for that mold.

To know that soldiers who have given their hard work and suffered an 
injury of some sort on our behalf are being required to stay in 
substandard housing such as that, or substandard facilities such as 
that, it is appalling. Quite frankly, if it turns out that is what the 
black mold was that they found there, that has health implications that 
affects the breathing of every human being, and it is very critical 
that we be concerned with that.

So this is an issue where the light of day needs to shine on it, and 
we need to talk about it. I hope some of my colleagues will join us 
later here so we can discuss this matter, because I think it is 
important. I think it is important, and the American people expect, as 
I expect, that we will give the best quality health care from beginning 
to end for every soldier and veteran in the United States.

It is Congress' responsibility to ensure that these medical 
facilities are providing the best possible care. The buck stops here. 
We have that responsibility.

I think overall we are very proud of the medical care that is 
provided for our soldiers. But we can only hope to expend much more 
time and, if necessary, much more resources to make sure that what is 
going on at Walter Reed is corrected and that we look to see if there 
is anything we need to do at every hospital in America.

I want to applaud the Army for getting on this deal right away. They 
have dispatched officials to inspect the quality of care at 11 
hospitals, and they are doing that this week and next. Of course, the 
President immediately acted and appointed Bob Dole and Donna Shalala to 
head a bipartisan commission to look into the solution to this problem. 
I think that is commendable, and I think that clearly shows how much 
the President and the White House care, as we care, about the health 
care of our soldiers.

Because I have a major hospital in my district, at Fort Hood, I went 
this weekend out to Carl Darnall Army Medical Center in my district. 
This wasn't my first trip there. I have been there on numerous 
occasions. This hospital serves approximately 50,000 active duty 
soldiers and airmen, approximately 56,000 family members, and over 
40,000 retirees and surviving annuitants. This hospital, quite frankly, 
we have been working very diligently and we are very hopeful that we 
will expand Darnall so that it can be bigger and better.

I was not concerned from what I had seen on multiple visits in the 
past that we would find problems at Darnall. But it seemed like to me 
that in light of the fact that we had this issue at Walter Reed, which 
by my visits to the intensive care unit at Walter Reed, I certainly did 
not see these conditions that are being described at Walter Reed, that 
I should make sure to talk to the folks, to go look at the hospital, to 
look at where we are housing our medical holdovers, and just see 
exactly what is going on at Darnall, too.


I am happy to report, Madam Speaker, quite frankly, I was very 
impressed. In fact, I went into the rooms where some of our holdover 
medical folks were. Most of them were Guardsmen. They are living in 
dormitory-like rooms, dormitory barrack rooms, two to a room, 
occasionally one to a room, the kind of room I checked my boys into 
when I checked them into Texas Tech University to go to college. They 
were the kind of room you would put your child in, you would be happy 
to put your teenager or young adult child in while they were going to 
school; clean, well-established, well-furnished, kitchenette-type 
rooms.

I visited some of the soldiers and asked them how things were 
working, were things working well there at Darnall. They were pleased. 
I went into more than one room and dropped in to visit with these 
folks.

I want to say in defense of the people in the Army Medical Corps, 
these folks do care about our soldiers. I don't


know what fell through the cracks out there at Walter Reed, and I am 
sure we are going to find out about that, but overall I cannot impress 
upon this body how much we have to respect these doctors and nurses and 
the time they are giving, because these folks are being deployed as 
well as serving our soldiers here. Many of them are being deployed to 
the two theaters of war today, working in theater hospitals that are 
part of the lifesaving process that we provide for soldiers today.

It is a tragedy when we talk about the number of soldiers that we 
have lost and airmen and, of course, Marines and sailors. It is a 
tragedy when we lose one, and it breaks the heart of every American to 
lose any soldier. But as we look at what the medical community has been 
able to accomplish in this war over previous wars, we have kept 
fatalities down because of doctors and nurses and administrators and 
the plans they have to get our soldiers to the doctor, to get help 
quickly.

The key is if they can get them off the battlefield and to a 
professional in 12 minutes, the vast majority of the time, no matter 
how serious the wound, we are able to save their lives. That is a track 
record that we don't have from previous wars. But it has been done by a 
combination of utilizing our medical facilities that all the branches 
of the service are involved in, and I have an example from back home 
that I will talk about sometime today to show how that works.

Also while I was there, I went and visited the Olin E. Teague 
Veterans Center in Temple, and I will tell you, you think about what 
you have heard about veterans hospitals in the past. Well, I am telling 
you, everything you have heard, you need to go visit Olin E. Teague 
Hospital in Temple, Texas. I promise you, you will be impressed with 
the quality of health care and the quality of that facility, which 
houses everything from our old soldiers in nursing care to intermediate 
holding care to hospital care for our veterans. I am telling you, it is 
state-of-the-art, first-class medical care that they are providing 
there.

Their new center, where they have about 400 men and women, it is 
better than what I live in here in Washington. It is a nice place. It 
looks like we have got a bunch of really happy veterans in that center. 
They have a lot of amenities. It is gloriously beautiful. I commend the 
foresight of those who preceded me to build that hospital up to the 
quality it is, and I feel very confident any inspections that take 
place there or at Darnall are going to come back with a very good 
report card.

But that doesn't get us away from the issue we have been talking 
about, the Walter Reed issue. These dedicated professionals can do just 
so much, and I will tell you when the Army was called upon to respond I 
think they responded very quickly.

I see I have been joined by my friend Robin Hayes.

I yield to Robin Hayes.