---
---

# DESIGNATING CERTAIN LAND COMPONENTS OF THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS  PRESERVATION SYSTEM
## `870aecabb2383d188d465626046ab613`
`Mr. INHOFE — 14 January 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I have been pretty outspoken in the last 
several weeks on the $700 billion bailout. I still believe historians 
will look back someday and say it was the most outrageous vote ever 
taken. It is the largest single expenditure in the history of the 
country.

To make matters worse, it was giving an unelected bureaucrat total 
power, usurping our powers, to make all decisions over the $700 billion 
with no oversight whatsoever. It had never been done before. It was 
unprecedented in American history. Nobody seems to care. It is mind-
boggling to me to know that it happened, and now it looks as though we 
will be voting in the other body as well as here on a motion that would 
be hostile to the whole idea, but it will not pass. The money is going 
to be there anyway. The reason is, if the legislation that will be 
coming before the House and the Senate is passed, it still can be 
vetoed by the President, and it would be vetoed by the President. So 
all of a sudden he is going to have the second half of the $700 
billion, the $350 billion laid at his doorstep to do with as he wishes.

I wouldn't want that for a Republican President or a Democratic 
President, for any President. It is not the way we are supposed to 
function. I believe it is a fait accompli. I don't see any way a 
resolution of disapproval is going to be effective, because I think it 
is going to pass the House and very likely could pass here. I am 
inclined to think it will not. Whatever the case is, it will become a 
reality.

That is bad for many reasons. It establishes a precedent. People look 
at large numbers, and it is difficult for the American people and for 
me to appreciate how much money is $700 billion. What I normally do 
when we deal with large numbers is, I take the total number of families 
in America who file tax returns and do the math. This turns out to be 
$5,000 a family. When I say it in those terms, which I have done quite 
a bit on talk radio as a wake-up call to the American people, then 
people do understand.

I have been a little critical of my own President, President Bush, 
because he has let this happen. This wasn't a Democratic idea or a 
Republican idea. It was the President's idea, in concert with the 
Democrats, making this happen. This vote took place on October 10. Ever 
since October 10, I have had legislation I have tried to get through 
saying that it is not going to be automatic. Accessing the second $350 
billion should not be automatic, and we had legislation to keep it from 
being so until 2 nights ago when President Bush agreed to a wish list 
by our new President when he comes into power. It is going to happen. 
Again, this is unprecedented in American history. It has never happened 
before.

I have been critical of the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Paulson, 
for telling us what he was going to do with the money and then turning 
around and not doing it. He did not tell us the truth. It is 
disingenuous. Nonetheless, it is something that looks as though it will 
be happening and it looks as though it will happen this week.

In defense of President Bush, if we take the total amount of deficits 
of the 8 years of his presidency from his own budget, add them up and 
divide by 8, it averages $247 billion a year. Compare that with what we 
are faced with right now with the new administration which has said it 
is going to be somewhere between $1.2 and $1.8 trillion. I think people 
will look at this and say that the Bush legacy is not going to be one 
of deficits, because it is nothing compared to the deficits we are 
projecting for the coming year, as proposed by the incoming President.

The reason I mention that is because I have somewhat accused 
President Bush of looking for a legacy. It occurs to me that George W. 
Bush has a legacy that may be unlike any other President in history. I 
call this the invisible legacy of President George W. Bush. I will 
explain in detail how I have come to this conclusion.

President Bush inherited a weaker America militarily. All of a 
sudden, after he came in, 9/11 occurred. So let's go back in history. 
When George W. Bush was inaugurated in 2001, he was already behind the 
power curve when it came to the war on terror. As the 9/11 Commission 
confirmed, the United States was not on a wartime footing with al-
Qaida, even though they were at war with us. While our country took its 
peace dividend, our enemies continued to train, plot, and test. It was 
a peace dividend, a euphoric attitude that the Cold War is over, and we 
don't need a military anymore. That is what we were living with at the 
time.

International terrorism took the forefront as bin Laden began his war 
against freedom and specifically against the United States. Afghanistan 
was used as a training ground for terrorists, and the Taliban regime 
allowed al-Qaida unfettered mobility. They took advantage of this in 
major attacks.

Look at what happened back in the 1990s. This was a predicate leading 
to 9/11, the worst tragedy in the history of America. On February 26, 
1993, a car bomb was planted in an underground parking garage below the 
World Trade Center. This was the first World Trade Center attack. On 
June 25, 1996, the Khobar Towers were bombed by Hezbollah, with 
intelligence pointing to support by al-Qaida. That was 1996. We knew 
al-Qaida was on the run at that time. We knew of their abilities, the 
increasing sophistication in their terrorist attacks. On August 7, 
1998, we recall what happened in Tanzania and Kenya and Nairobi and Dar 
es Salaam. Our embassies were bombed. Links were at that time 
established with al-Qaida. In October 2000, suicide bombers used a boat 
to attack the USS Cole while it was moored in Yemen. It was


one we all remember well, and we remember how it happened. We know the 
terrorist links that took place at that time. The response of the 
United States was at best inconsistent.


Operation Infinite Reach included cruise missile strikes against 
Afghanistan and Sudan, but there was no real change. This inadequate 
response has been cited as a factor in emboldening al-Qaida's will to 
undertake more ambitious plans. That was simply kind of small. They had 
bigger plans. We know that now.

In Operation Restore Hope, we became entangled in Somalia. We 
remember that very well, with the naked bodies being dragged through 
the streets of Mogadishu, and America finally woke up, but we did not 
do anything. We kind of let it happen. We directed our forces to stop 
all actions against Adid except for those required for self-defense. 
Well, that is not a very good message, not a consistent message with 
our behavior in the past. So we withdrew from the country shortly 
thereafter.

We also failed to remain vigilant of the Chinese.

Security at our national labs was deliberately destroyed. We did away 
with--and this happened actually in the first few weeks of the Clinton-
Gore administration. They went through the energy labs and they stopped 
the wiretapping, they stopped the background checks they were 
conducting at the time. They stopped color-coded badges saying it was 
demeaning to have a color of a badge that was on a lower scale than 
somebody else's. So that is what happened. Of course, we know the 
results of that.

In 1995, we discovered that China had stolen our W-88 warhead plans. 
That was the crown jewel of our nuclear program, capable of attaching 
10 nuclear missiles to a single warhead. But they had it. They got it. 
They got it because of a lack of security that was the policy of that 
administration at the time, and I was critical at that time.

I remember Bernard Schwartz of Loral Space and Communications. They 
were given a green light to improve the precision and reliability of 
China's satellites and nuclear missiles. To refresh our memories--I 
remember it very well--it required the President to sign a waiver, a 
special waiver, so the Chinese missile program would have greater 
accuracy. That happened during the 1990s.

China also gained the capability of accurately reaching the 
continental United States with missiles and targeted between 13 and 18 
United States cities. I was critical of President Clinton for claiming, 
at that time--he said: Not one missile is pointed at American children, 
when in fact missiles were pointed at American children. That was 
happening during the 1990s.

Simultaneously, weapons of mass destruction proliferation throughout 
the world reached an unprecedented level. The Chinese Government 
learned that it could rely on our acquiescence. They transferred 
prohibited weapons technology to North Korea, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, 
Syria, and other countries, threatened to absorb Taiwan, and 
intimidated our regional treaty allies, South Korea and Japan.

The vast Soviet Union nuclear stockpile became fair game for 
entrepreneurs, with over 40 kilograms of Russian-origin uranium and 
plutonium being seized since 1991.

Then remember Abdul Qadeer Khan, the father of Pakistan's nuclear 
program, who began an international network of clandestine nuclear 
proliferation to Libya, Iran, and North Korea. North Korea withdrew 
from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty on March 12, 1993, and 
refused to allow inspectors access to its nuclear sites. And Libya 
further continued weapons of mass destruction research as a priority.

Now, despite the increase in terrorist activities around the world 
and the growing signs of a direct threat to this country, we 
essentially broke our intelligence community through the lack of 
funding, an inadequate number of linguists, and no interagency 
cooperation.

I have to say this. My predecessor to this job was former Senator 
David Boren. David Boren's young son Dan is a very talented young man 
now serving in the House of Representatives. I was in the House and 
came to the Senate in 1994. I took his seat.

He at that time was chairman of the Intelligence Committee of the 
Senate, and he made the statement to me--he called me up, and he said: 
Inhofe, I want you to try to do something I failed to do during the 
time I was chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the Senate. He 
said: We have all these agencies--the FBI, the NSA, all the defense 
intelligence agencies--and none of them talks to each other. Then I 
found out later on that was so true. He said: You have to get this 
done. That has to be a high priority. I told him it would be. We were 
not able to do anything until George W. Bush came in.

If this was not enough, with the demise of the Soviet Union, our 
military was essentially neutered to counter a ''perceived'' diminished 
world threat. I remember so well this euphoric attitude that everybody 
had: The Cold War is over. We don't need a military anymore.

The Clinton-Gore administration cut the defense budget by 40 percent, 
reducing it to its lowest percentage of the GNP since prior to World 
War II. As a result, President Bush inherited a force half the size of 
the military in 1990.

Now, as our forces decreased in size and capability, deployments and 
deployment times increased. We have all seen the results. We now have 
15-month deployments. They used to be 9-month deployments. We have 
these because he inherited this military that was undersized for the 
threat we are facing.

I have a chart in the Chamber I will show as documentation of this 
fact. During the Clinton years--and I do not say this to denigrate the 
administration; I am saying we have to understand how we got in the 
position we are in today and that we have been in since 9/11. If you 
take the black line on the chart--this is during the Clinton 
administration--if he had taken the military budget as it was at that 
time and had the increase for inflation, it would have been this black 
line going up, shown on the chart. Instead, the red line shows what his 
budget request was. If you take the difference between the red line and 
the black line, that is $412 billion reduced from when he took office.

That is how we got into this position. We downgraded our military, 
and a lot of people believed the threat was not there anymore because 
the Cold War was over, not looking at the new asymmetric threats, which 
are much greater.

I sometimes look back wistfully at the Cold War. Things were 
predictable back then. We knew what the Soviets were going to do--the 
Soviets, not the Russians--and we knew what their capabilities were. 
These were known things, known behavioral patterns. It was totally 
different than what we have today.

So the programs, the modernization efforts, and the equipment 
replacement costs were literally kicked down the road and left waiting 
in the wings. This happened to our modernization program. It happened 
in many areas. This has been very demoralizing to most of us who 
believe we have to keep America's national defense strong.

We saw countries coming up with better systems than we have. We have, 
for example, the artillery piece, the best one we have today now that 
we are modernizing. But we did not have that at that time. We had one 
called the Paladin. That was World War II technology. You have to get 
out and swab the breach after every shot.

There were five countries at that time, including South Africa, that 
made a better piece than we had, and we are still using this today. It 
was not until a very courageous general, GEN John Jumper, came up and 
admitted, in 1998, that the best strike vehicles we had--the F-15 and 
the F-16--were not as good as some of the SU series being developed in 
Russia and actually were being sold to the Chinese--we know of one sale 
where they bought 240 SU-30 type of vehicles--again, better than 
anything we had.

So, again, that is where we were before George W. Bush was elected.

Now enter President George W. Bush.

Starting with his first budget submission after inauguration, he 
proposed increases in defense spending and focused his Pentagon team on 
reform. He started with recognizing and revitalizing the military for 
the post-Cold War world it now faced. He provided the military with the 
funding required


to develop force structure and modernize its aging force. So he was 
getting in there and starting to do something about the modernization 
program.


Then, of course, 9/11 happened. Well, 9/11, we all know about that. 
We know what a tragedy it was, with the most significant attack in 
America in our history. It came at a time when we had a downsized 
military, downsized by about 40 percent. So he was saddled with trying 
to respond to this situation, and he did.

He asked Congress for new authorities and began to implement sweeping 
changes in our national security policy. In this new policy he declared 
a war on terror. This is what he said--I want to read the quote from 
back at that time:




 We will direct every resource at our command--every means 


 of diplomacy, every tool of intelligence, every instrument of 


 law enforcement, every financial influence, and every 


 necessary weapon of war--to the disruption and to the defeat 


 of the global terror network.


That is what he said at that time. Then he outlined the country's 
strategy. He said:




 First, we're determined to prevent the attacks of terrorist 


 networks before they occur. . . .


Unlike it was on 9/11.




 Second, we're determined to deny weapons of mass 


 destruction to outlaw regimes and


 to their terrorist allies who would use 


 them. . . .



 Third, we're determined to deny radical groups the support 


 and sanctuary of outlaw regimes. . . .



 Fourth, we're determined to deny militants control of any 


 nation.


And he did. He asked Congress for the PATRIOT Act--listen to the 
things he did--the PATRIOT Act to break down walls between Government 
agencies. That is getting back to what David Boren observed many years 
ago back in 1994 that had to be done.

In October of 2001, he initiated Operation Enduring Freedom to 
dismantle the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, which is harboring al-
Qaida. Bombing runs and Tomahawk missile strikes were launched.

In October of 2001, President Bush established the Office of Homeland 
Security. This was a coordinating effort that corrects the problem that 
was called to my attention in 1994, so everything would be coordinated 
and everyone would know what everyone is supposed to be doing.

The 9/11 Commission was formed and he began implementing its 
recommendations, including intelligence reform, which included 
establishing the Director of National Intelligence. There you have it. 
That is the key. One Director over all intelligence: military 
intelligence, domestic intelligence--and it worked.

On March of 2003, President Bush launched Operation Iraqi Freedom, 
preemptive attacks against Saddam Hussein, a gathering threat to the 
United States, who was reportedly developing ties with our enemies and 
who openly praised the 9/11 attacks.

I remember that very well because in the first gulf war--which we 
should have gone ahead and taken care of Saddam Hussein at that time; 
we did not do it, and there are some reasons it could not be done--I 
happened to be privileged to be with nine other people on the first 
freedom flight that went into Kuwait after the war was over. Now, it 
was so close to the time the first Persian Gulf war was over that there 
was still burning off the fields, and there were a lot of them. The 
Iraqis did not know the war was over, the ones who were in there.

I remember so well one of the parties who was going over was the 
Ambassador from Kuwait to the United States and his daughter. I think 
she was around 7 years old. What they wanted to do was go back and see 
what was left in Kuwait of their mansion on the Persian Gulf. We got 
back there, and I remember going back to see their mansion, only to 
find out Saddam Hussein had used this for one of his headquarters. They 
took the little girl up to her bedroom--she wanted to see her little 
animals and all that--to find out it had been used as a torture 
chamber, with body parts stuck to the walls around there. This is what 
we were looking at at that time.

Well, President Bush established the National Counterterrorism Center 
to assist in analyzing and integrating foreign and domestic 
intelligence acquired from all U.S. Government Departments and 
agencies--so, again, putting this all together.

He established the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, in the 
Department of Homeland Security, to provide a single Federal 
organization to develop and deploy a nuclear detection system to thwart 
the importation of illegal nuclear or radiological materials.

In order to consolidate terrorist watch lists and provide around-the-
clock operational support for Federal and other governmental law 
enforcement personnel across the country and around the world, 
President Bush created the Terrorist Screening Center to ensure that 
Government investigators, screeners, and agents are working with the 
same unified, comprehensive set of information about terrorists.

He transformed the FBI to focus on preventing terrorism.

He strengthened the Transportation Security Administration through 
screening and prevention. He improved border screening.


All of these things he did in a very short period of time that had to 
be done and had never been done before.

He expanded shipping security through container security initiatives. 
He developed Project Bioshield to increase preparedness against 
chemical, biological, and radiological, or nuclear attack, potential 
attack against this country. Finally, he aggressively cracked down on 
terrorist financing with many international partners. Over 400 
individuals and entities have been designated pursuant to Executive 
order, resulting in nearly $150 million in frozen assets and millions 
more blocked in transit or seized at the borders.

President Bush also rallied international support to fight terrorism 
with a coalition of more than 90 countries. We didn't do this alone. He 
brought in neighboring countries, other countries with the same 
problems that we had, and the same exposure. This coalition of nations 
has actively worked to synchronize diplomatic intelligence, law 
enforcement, economic and financial and military power to attack 
terrorism globally. One man did this. This is George W. Bush.

The result of all of these efforts is what I refer to as the Bush 
invisible legacy. Now, why is this an invisible legacy? I am going to 
show my colleagues things that were out there that could very well have 
happened to the United States of America--and some would have 
happened--but since they didn't happen, that legacy is invisible 
because they never happened. That, to me, is going to go down as one of 
the great legacies of any President in the history of the United 
States.

There has not been another attack on this country since 9/11, and do 
not think this was due to a lack of effort on the part of terrorists. 
In fact, there have been many attempts. I am going to give my 
colleagues a partial list of the attacks that were stopped as a result 
of all of these policies and programs I just outlined that our 
President--current President George W. Bush--was responsible for.

First, December of 2001: This is the first post-9/11 plot that was 
thwarted. It was the capture of an al-Qaida operative named Ali Salih 
Mari in the United States who was targeting water reservoirs and the 
New York Stock Exchange at that time. Also, he was targeting--he had 
his programs outlined in documents that we found through all of these 
efforts to attack our various military academies. He offered himself as 
a martyr to Khalid Sheikh Mohammad. Of course, we know he was the 
mastermind of 9/11. Anyway, all of this was planned, but I believe Bush 
policies stopped the attacks.

I have to say at this point that I have served on the Intelligence 
Committee. I served for a number of years--ever since 1994--on the 
Senate Armed Services Committee. So I have been involved in these 
issues. We know this had a lot to do with stopping some of these 
potential attacks.

Remember Jose Padilla. He is the guy who had the dirty bomb plot, an 
American citizen accused of seeking radioactive-laced dirty bombs to 
use in attacks against America. Again, this was a Bush program that 
brought him down.

The 2002 aviation plots: An al-Qaida leader in Southeast Asia known 
as Humbali recruited several other


operatives of Asian origin. The plot was derailed in early 2002 with 
international cooperation. The Library Tower is the tallest building 
west of the Mississippi. It was among the 25 tallest buildings in the 
world. There was a written program about how to bring this building 
down, and our policies--the Bush policies, primarily--stopped that from 
taking place.

In September of 2002, Lackawanna Six: We all remember that. The FBI 
thwarted the locally recruited terrorist cell, the Lackawanna Six, by 
the capturing of Juma all-Dosari in Afghanistan and a subsequent 
interrogation while in prison in Guantanamo Bay. By the way, I disagree 
with the current attitude toward what is going to happen at Guantanamo 
Bay. I have had occasion to be there, probably more than any other 
Member. I can remember so well early on, those who were in prison, 
incarcerated in Guantanamo Bay actually had better treatment, better 
living quarters, and better health attention than our own troops did at 
that time. I think it is going to be imperative that whoever wants to 
close that down ask: Where are all of these people going to go?

Six American citizens of Yemeni origin were convicted of supporting 
al-Qaida after attending a Jihadist camp in Pakistan. Five of the six 
were from Lackawanna, NY. The six were arrested and convicted. They are 
out now. They performed terrorist attacks. They were very specific. 
They are gone. I think the new Bush programs at that time were 
primarily responsible for that.

In May of 2003, we had the Brooklyn Bridge plot: An American citizen 
was charged with plotting to use blow torches to collapse the Brooklyn 
Bridge. After being introduced to al-Qaida operatives, New York and 
Federal authorities intercepted a plan to collapse the Brooklyn Bridge 
by cutting suspension cables, as well as potentially derailing a train 
en route to Washington, DC. Iyman Faris was arrested, brought to 
justice, and was successfully stopped.

In June of 2003 in Virginia, a Jihad network that was taking place, 
11 men from Alexandria, VA--just south of here--trained for Jihad 
against American soldiers and were convicted of violating the 
Neutrality Act, a conspiracy. Eleven Muslim men were charged in the 
U.S. district court in Alexandria with training with and fighting with 
a group that was associated with al-Qaida. Several members of the group 
were found to have trained for future attacks by using paint ball 
facilities in the Northern Virginia area. It was stopped. The Bush 
policies were primarily responsible for giving us the resources to stop 
attacks such as those I am outlining.

In 2004, August of 2004, the financial centers plot: This was the 
Indian-born leader of a terror cell who plotted the bombing on the 
financial centers. His name was Barot. He plotted a ''memorable black 
day of terror'' via a dirty bomb that targeted financial institutions 
in New York, Washington, DC, and in Newark. Barot was arrested at his 
home in Pakistan with the cooperation of others, but again, these were 
the Bush policies and resources that we used to make this happen.

In August of 2004--the same month--a Penn Station plot: This was 
James Elshafay and two accomplices who sought to plant a bomb at New 
York's Penn Station near Madison Square Garden during the Republican 
National Convention. The New York City Police Department's intelligence 
division helped to conduct an investigation leading to their arrest, 
again, using the policies that President Bush had put in place.

The same month, the Pakistani diplomat assassination plot: We all 
remember that. Two leaders of an Albany, NY, mosque, Yassin and 
Mohammed Hossain, were charged with plotting to purchase a shoulder-
fired grenade launcher to assassinate a Pakistani diplomat. An 
investigation took place by the FBI, and all of these other agencies 
coordinating under the single leadership of the new system put in 
place, they stopped it. With the help of an informant, the perpetrators 
of that plot have been brought to justice. Again, that was stopped.

August of 2005, Orange County, CA, a terror plot: Seven people were 
involved and were arrested in Los Angeles and charged with conspiracy 
to attack Los Angeles National Guard facilities and synagogues, several 
synagogues. The plan was there; it is in writing. We know it was going 
to happen. Kevin James allegedly founded a radical Islamic prison group 
and converted Levar Washington and others to the group which was known 
as the JIS. After Washington and Patterson were arrested for robberies, 
police and Federal agents began a terrorist investigation where the 
search of Washington's apartment revealed a suspicious target list.

We had a list of targets in Orange County that were going to be 
brought down. Again, these policies weren't available to us before the 
Bush administration, and we were able to stop that.

December of 2005, the gas lines plot: Michael Reynolds was arrested 
by the FBI in December of 2005 and charged with being involved in a 
plot to blow up a Wyoming natural gas refinery, the Transcontinental 
Pipeline. That is a national gas pipeline that goes from the gulf coast 
to the east coast and into New Jersey. I believe it is owned by the New 
Jersey Standard Oil refinery. Reynolds was convicted for providing 
materials for supporting terrorists and soliciting a crime of violence. 
Again, we used the new resources that were available because of our 
President, George W. Bush.


In April of 2006, the U.S. Capitol and World Bank plot: Syed Haris 
Ahmed and another one whose name is Ehsanul Islam Sadequee from 
Atlanta, GA, were accused of conspiracy, having discussed terrorist 
targets with alleged terrorist organizations. They met with Islam 
extremists and received training and instruction on how to gather 
videotape surveillance of potential targets in the Washington area. 
Their targets happened to be the U.S. Capitol--right here where we are 
standing today--and the World Bank headquarters. They were the targets 
and, again, we were able to intercept this and to bring them to justice 
under these new policies that were put in place by our current 
President.

We had Narseal Batiste, and he had six others who were involved in a 
Sears Tower plot. They were arrested in Miami and in Atlanta in June of 
2006 for being in the early stages of a plot to blow up the Sears Tower 
in Chicago as well as FBI offices and several other buildings. Arrests 
resulted from an investigation involving an FBI informant and all of 
the rest of them working together with the new resources they had, and 
they were brought to justice. Again, this was the new system we had in 
place.

July of 2006, New York City, the train tunnel plot: It is frightening 
to think this could have happened. There were eight suspects, including 
Assem Hammoud, an al-Qaida loyalist living in Lebanon. They were 
arrested for plotting to bomb the New York City train tunnels. He was a 
self-proclaimed operative for al-Qaida. He admitted that he was with 
al-Qaida when we brought him to justice, and he admitted to the plot. 
He is currently in custody in Lebanon and his case is pending. Two 
other suspects are in custody in other locations. The bottom line is it 
didn't happen. It was precluded from happening as a result of the new 
resources that were put in place and the coordination of all of our 
intelligence committees.

In March of 2007, a skyscraper plot: This was Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. 
He was the mastermind of 9/11 and the author of numerous other plots 
confessed in court. People think of him as only 9/11. He also had plans 
in writing to destroy skyscrapers in New York, Los Angeles, and 
Chicago, as well as a plot of an assassination of Bill Clinton and Pope 
John Paul II. Again, that was stopped.

In May of 2007, the Fort Dix plot: This was another one. I will not 
go into detail, but this was one where the Fort Dix six were thought to 
be leaderless. We found that they were a homegrown cell of immigrants 
from Jordan, Turkey, and Yugoslavia and they had ties to al-Qaida. They 
were stopped, the plot was stopped, and they were brought to justice. I 
believe this was due to the new programs that were put together by the 
Bush administration.

June of 2007, the JFK plot: Suspects planned to hit fuel farms and a 
40-mile aviation field supply pipeline. Specifically, they targeted the 
symbolism of JFK, seeking to invoke an emotional


reaction, saying it is like killing the man twice. We all know and 
remember that, and we were able to stop it.

I think the bottom line has been that there hasn't been another 
successful attack on this country since 9/11. It didn't just happen. 
What this administration has accomplished in the last 5 years is 
phenomenal. In the aftermath of 9/11, he brought us together as a 
nation, prevented our enemies from striking again, and captured many 
who would have tried. President Bush woke the Nation so we could begin 
to deal aggressively with the threats that were facing us.

Because of President Bush, we no longer treat terrorists like common 
criminals but as enemy combatants. We no longer turn a blind eye to 
nuclear proliferation by negotiating without the real threat of 
military action. We fully funded a readiness-challenged, cold-war-
equipped, and organized military that had suffered from a decade of no 
modernization. We have removed threatening regimes in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, freeing 50 million people. We have weakened the al-Qaida 
network and its affiliates. We have disrupted terrorist plots and built 
a coalition of more than 90 nations to fight terrorism. We have 
transformed our approach to combating terrorism after the 9/11 attacks.

So we ask the question: Would all of these terrorist attacks have 
been successful? Obviously, no, but I honestly believe--it is my 
judgment from having the background of years of serving on the Armed 
Services Committee and the Intelligence Committee, that some of these--
to me, it is not conceivable that none of these would have occurred. I 
believe this invisible legacy--keep in mind, it is an invisible legacy 
of George W. Bush because they didn't happen. If they didn't happen, 
they are invisible, but nonetheless they were stopped.

The bottom line is this: The New York Stock Exchange was not bombed, 
the military academies were not bombed, the Brooklyn Bridge was not 
bombed, New York and DC financial centers were not bombed, Penn Station 
was not bombed, Los Angeles synagogues were not bombed, and New Jersey 
Standard Oil refineries were not bombed.

The transcontinental pipeline was not bombed. The World Bank was not 
bombed. The Chicago Sears Tower was not bombed. New York City train 
tunnels were not bombed. JFK Airport was not bombed. And our Nation's 
Capitol Building was not bombed. Clearly, the Bush invisible legacy may 
go down in history as perhaps the greatest legacy in history. I know 
people don't want to give credit where credit is due. This is something 
that took almost all of his energies at a time when otherwise something 
could very well have happened. It is my honest judgment that had it not 
been for his changes in our intelligence process, that one or more of 
these terrorist attacks would have been successful. I believe that in 
my heart. I think history will treat that as the case. Clearly, the 
Bush invisible legacy may go down as the greatest legacy in history.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record an Oklahoman 
editorial dated January 13, 2009, and a Heritage Foundation 
Backgrounder No. 2085.