# TRIBUTE TO MARINE GUNNERY SERGEANT CHARLES ``BRANDON'' BAILEY
## `87190253615128f6f0805f3885ae7548`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky â€” 26 June 2009`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Madam Speaker, today I rise to pay tribute to 
Marine Gunnery Sergeant Charles ''Brandon'' Bailey from Florence, 
Kentucky, who was wounded in an improvised explosive device attack on 
January 23, 2009, while serving in Afghanistan.

Gunnery Sergeant Bailey is a true patriot. Having felt the call to 
serve his country since childhood, Brandon sold his small business and 
selflessly joined the Marine Corps when he was twenty-four years old. 
He served his first combat deployment in Iraq and was a member of the 
22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit. In April, 2008, Brandon married his 
childhood friend, Kristie. He was deployed to Afghanistan as a member 
of the Marine Special Operations Command shortly after the wedding. 
Without any hesitation, he left his new wife to serve his country once 
more in harm's way, ultimately to be severely wounded in action.

Gunnery Sergeant Bailey is undergoing rehabilitation with recovery in 
the distant future. He and Kristie are expecting their first baby this 
December. Gunnery Sergeant Bailey stays positive and says he is happy 
he had the opportunity to do the job that he loved and serve his 
country. Brandon's life and character epitomize the Marine Corps 
Motto--Semper Fidelis, Always Faithful.

Gunnery Sergeant Bailey is an inspiration to us all. Today, Madam 
Speaker, I ask the House of Representatives to recognize Gunnery 
Sergeant Bailey's unwavering dedication to the Marine Corps and to 
thank him for his service to our great nation.
