---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `8722062a0dae60a421a3a031e0380b2a`
`Mr. SPECTER — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I now intend to take some of the time 
allocated for the judicial issue to talk very briefly about the 
immigration question which is front and center in the Congress today. 
It is second only to the concerns about the Iraq war and the current 
funding impasse which we have in the constitutional confrontation 
between the Congress and the President, and the sustaining of a veto 
and our efforts to try to work that out.

I believe there is a universal agreement that the immigration 
situation in the United States today is an unmitigated disaster. Strong 
language, but not strong enough for what is going on with immigration. 
We have a porous border and undocumented immigrants are coming into the 
United States. They pose a security risk. Terrorists are free to wander 
across our borders and come into our country and pose potentially grave 
threats to our national security.



We find a significant number of incidents of crime among undocumented 
immigrants. Crime does not have a sole source, but it is a problem. We 
definitely need to get a handle on immigration.

We worked very hard in the 109th Congress in the Senate. I give my 
colleagues in the House of Representatives credit for working very hard 
too. We produced a bill out of the Judiciary Committee. It was reported 
to the floor, and it passed the Senate. It was comprehensive reform, 
which is what was called for by the President, a bill which would deal 
with the 11 million undocumented immigrants, would provide for a Guest 
Worker Program, and would, as a preliminary to secure our borders, 
provide for employer sanctions if employers hired illegal immigrants.

The House of Representatives chose a different course to provide only 
for border security, and it was embarrassing, in my judgment, that we 
were unable to have a conference and pass an immigration bill last year 
with both Houses--the Senate and House of Representatives--controlled 
by the Republicans and President Bush, a Republican in the White House. 
But we find ourselves this year with the unmitigated disaster of 
immigration, worse now than ever.

There have been major efforts to try to find consensus legislation to 
present to the Senate for consideration. The first meeting was held on 
February 13 of this year, and the meetings have been held continuously 
right up to the present time, almost 3 laborious months. These were not 
abbreviated meetings. These meetings were held every Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday from 4 to 6 o'clock. They were attended by an 
average of 8 to 10 to 12 Senators. They were attended also by the 
Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
signifying the President's deep concern and deep interest in the issue.

They started off with Republicans meeting separately, and then we 
moved into bipartisan meetings. Last week, illustratively, we had 12 
Senators meeting off the Senate floor for 2/1/2/ hours. It is pretty 
hard to keep 12 Senators in one room for 2/1/2/ hours, but we did.

We have come to what has been categorized as a ''grand bargain.'' 
That is a term one of our most active participants, Senator Lindsey 
Graham, gave to it because we had the overall structure of an 
immigration bill. We did not have all the aspects of it worked out, but 
we were proceeding to provide for real border security--border security 
which would increase the number of border guards from 12,000 to 18,000 
and border security which would encompass a fence. We cannot have one 
across the entire border, but we can have a fence to secure our major 
metropolitan areas, illustratively San Diego and southern Arizona.

We have worked laboriously to craft identification so an employer 
would know whether an applicant for a job was legal or illegal. When an 
employer has the opportunity to be certain of the legal status of those 
he hires, then the stage is set for tough sanctions on employers so 
that we can reduce the magnet to bring people to the United States for 
jobs when they are not legally in the United States.

We have provided the mechanism for dealing with the 11 million 
undocumented immigrants. We have structured a program so it would not 
be fairly or accurately characterized as amnesty. The requirements of 
that program are that immigrants learn English, that the immigrants 
have roots in the United States, that they have held a job for a 
protracted period of time, that they pay a fine, and that there be a 
so-called touchback provision. It is still not decided as to the issue 
of back taxes, but that is a consideration which is on the table. We 
have provided for a Guest Worker Program which is what it says; that 
is, people come to the United States for the purpose of filling jobs 
and then will return to their native homes.

We provided that if there are people living in the United States 
legally, citizens or legal immigrants, they would have the first 
opportunity at these jobs.

We have held some 23 meetings over the course of the past 3 months. 
So I was a little surprised to see the statement by the majority leader 
at a press conference yesterday. Perhaps it was said partially in jest, 
but Senator Reid pointed out that there had been notice for some 2 
months that the immigration bill would be taken up in the last 2 weeks 
before the Memorial Day recess. Then he said:




 And anyone who thinks that 2 months is not enough time to 


 get ready should get another occupation.


Maybe he said it in humor, but certainly I would fit into that 
category of looking for another occupation. The distinguished chairman 
of the committee has elected to have the matter go through the 
negotiating process which I have just described, so he doesn't have to 
seek another occupation. But there are many people on both sides of the 
aisle, under the Reid dictum, who now must seek another occupation.

I think it is a fair representation to say we have worked 
tenaciously. The problem we face now is that the so-called stakeholders 
all want more than can be divided from what is available. There are 
stakeholders who want more green cards and who want the advantages of 
family admission on a widespread basis, and if it were left up to me 
alone I would be in favor of the broadest reach of family unification. 
But if we are to find the realism of enough green cards to accommodate 
the undocumented immigrants who are going to come through the process 
at the end of the line, there has to be some give somewhere.

The critics of the immigration bill are descending on us from all 
sides before we even have an immigration bill. The Hill publication 
reports today of opposition from Members of the House of 
Representatives for Senate legislation when we don't even have 
legislation in existence. One Member of the House is quoted as saying:




 It is important that the Senate knows there will be strong 


 bipartisan opposition to amnesty.


Well, we don't even have a bill that could be accused of having 
included amnesty, and the outline which we are considering and 
contemplating is certainly not amnesty by any fair interpretation.

The majority leader has said he intends to file under rule XIV today 
and go to the legislation on Monday. As I said yesterday, there is 
strong opposition to such a practice, at least on this side of the 
aisle. It is my hope that we will not face a contested motion to 
proceed. It is my hope we will not face the threat of a filibuster 
against the motion to proceed, which would doom immigration reform.

We have encapsulated our views in a letter, following the majority 
leader's news conference of today, where a number of us are asking that 
we rethink the schedule we have. If we bring last year's Senate-passed 
bill to the floor, it is going to have substantial opposition. That has 
already been announced on both sides of the aisle. Both Democrats and 
Republicans who supported it last year are opposed to it. If we start 
there, the floor action is likely to be a free-for-all.

I understand the problems of Senate scheduling, but I also understand 
the vicissitudes, problems, and pitfalls of proceeding where you don't 
have the structure of a bill which can be reasonably and realistically 
debated, with amendments, and then decided upon. We don't even have 2 
weeks. We have to act on the supplemental before the Memorial Day 
recess if we are to provide the troops with the funding they need.

So it is my hope the current process can be allowed to continue. 
There has been a massive good-faith effort by Republicans and Democrats 
meeting for very protracted periods of time to come to agreement on a 
bill and to reduce it to written form. I will concede that there has 
been a lot of wheel spinning in the process which we have undertaken. 
Perhaps it was an error to abandon the traditional committee process. 
But that is where we are, and we need more time to flesh out the grand 
compromise, the grand bargain which we have structured so far.

If we are not able to legislate, we are not going to be able to 
provide for people who are interested in bringing 11 million 
undocumented immigrants out of the shadows, which is the main benefit 
that comes from those who want to proceed in the traditional American 
way to welcome the immigrants under a systemized plan. If we don't have 
comprehensive reform, we are not going to provide the border controls 
and the employer sanctions to stop illegal immigration.



It may be this is our last best chance. I would urge all sides to 
take a deep breath and to rethink positions on all sides and try to 
find a rational, bipartisan way to proceed.

Mr. President, how much time remains on my side?