---
---

# None
## `873073e9daa8d3db43df19437eb242ed`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Might I say, Mr. Speaker, it is a joy to 
see you in the chair, and I thank the member of the majority Rules 
Committee and the Rules Committee and a number of my colleagues.

And might I just remind my colleagues that we had some 10 years for 
the Members on the other side of the aisle to make good on a 
constitutional promise.

It should be noted that this very rule and its format has been 
affirmed on constitutional grounds. It was utilized by majority vote in 
the 103th Congress without one incident except three revotes.

The idea and concept is to again inform America that we believe in 
one vote, one person. I know historically the complete insult to being 
considered less than one vote. Slaves were characterized historically 
as less than one person. And so this particular legislation is a making 
of the whole of individuals who pay taxes, Federal taxes, Social 
Security, Medicare taxes, and individuals who we know, Mr. Speaker, 
have been on the front lines of Iraq, Afghanistan, and every single 
war.

And so to the American Samoa, to the District of Columbia, to the 
Virgin Islands, and to the District of Columbia along with Puerto Rico 
and the Commissioner, the argument for self-rule or however Puerto Rico 
will ultimately be designed is not the argument here today. The 
argument here today is to allow the constituents, some 4.4 million, 
represented by Commissioners and Delegates to have a constitutional 
right to vote. There is no way that this Congress, this Democratic 
Congress under the leadership of Speaker Pelosi and the leadership 
team, can reject the right for Americans to vote or those who are in 
many instances citizens.

And so, Mr. Speaker, I support the rule and the underlying bill, and 
would ask us to uphold the Constitution by voting today to allow those 
who have the right to vote to express their vote.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 78, which would amend 
the rules of the House of Representatives to permit Delegates from the 
District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the 
Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico to cast votes in the Committee of 
the Whole House on the State of the Union.

I support H.R. 78 because restoring to the Delegates and the Resident 
Commissioner the right to vote in the Committee of the Whole is an act 
of simple justice long overdue. Indeed, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 78 merely 
restores the practice that prevailed in this House during the 103rd 
Congress. When the Republicans won control of this chamber in 1994, one 
of their first acts was to strip elected Delegates and the Resident 
Commissioner of Puerto Rico of their right to vote in the Committee of 
the Whole.

Let me point out at the outset, Mr. Speaker, that the rule we seek to 
restore today was rescinded by the Republican controlled 104th 
Congress, and prohibited by each succeeding Congress through the 110th 
not because the rule is unconstitutional or illegal but because for 
apparently partisan reasons. Four of the five Members directly affected 
by the rule are members of the Democratic Caucus.

But the fact is, Mr. Speaker, the authority of this House to confer 
voting rights in the Committee of the Whole upon elected Delegates and 
the Resident Commissioner of Puerto has been squarely addressed and 
upheld by the Federal courts.

When the House adopted a similar rule during the 103d Congress, 
Republican opponents immediately brought action in federal court 
challenging the constitutionality of the rule on the ground that it 
vested legislative power in persons who were not elected to represent 
citizens of any of the several States. In March 1993, the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia upheld the rules change on 
the ground that the Delegate votes was structured so that Delegate 
votes in the Committee of the Whole were symbolic in nature and thus 
did not affect the final ultimate outcome of any vote. Michaels v. 
Anderson, 817 F. Supp. 126 (D.D.C. 1993), aff'd, 109 F.3d 623 (1994). 
For this reason, the court held that the rule did not 
unconstitutionally confer legislative power upon Delegates.

In affirming the district court, the Court of Appeals for the 
District of Columbia held that the additional authority conferred on 
Delegates by the rule change was ''largely symbolic'' and ''not 
significantly greater than that which they enjoy serving and voting on 
the standing committees.'' Id. Nor was the court persuaded by the 
argument raised by opponents below that the rule change had the 
symbolic effect of granting Delegates higher status and greater 
prestige in their home districts. In rejecting the claim, the court 
noted that because of the savings clause contained in the rule, the 
claimed harm was ''unproven, remote, and speculative'' and of no 
unconstitutional moment. Simply put, the court held that the rule ''was 
not unconstitutional as the delegation of an improper exercise of 
legislative power.''

Moreover, Mr. Speaker, the Supreme Court has long held and it is now 
settled that the Congress has broad authority to take action with 
respect to the territories and the District of Columbia. See Sere & 
Laralde v. Pilot, 10 U.S. 332, 336-37 (1810); Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 
U.S. 15, 44 (1885); Binns v. U.S., 194 U.S. 486 (1885).

Mr. Speaker, our Nation's Capital of the District of Columbia, the 
United States territories of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the 
Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands, all play an important 
role in this great Nation. They serve in our military. They are 
fighting for us right now in Iraq and Afghanistan. They are making and 
have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect and defend this Nation.


Mr. Speaker, more than 30,000 residents of Guam are on active duty in 
the Armed Forces of the United States. That is nearly 20 percent of the 
population of the territory. No other congressional district or State 
comes close to matching this measure of devotion. Approximately 2,500 
soldiers from the District of Columbia and the territories are 
currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan today. And American Samoa has 
the highest per capita rate of any State or territory in the Iraq war. 
The Iraq war


death rate per 1 million people in the population is almost as high for 
American Samoa as for the 10 highest States combined.

Sadly also, Mr. Speaker, the Nation lost 19 brave soldiers this past 
Saturday when the helicopter they were riding was shot down by 
insurgents. Two of the heroes who made this supreme sacrifice for their 
country were residents of the Virgin Islands.

Mr. Speaker, if a person can be called upon to pay Federal taxes and 
serve in the Armed Forces of the United States, then he or she should 
at least have the opportunity to vote for a Representative who could at 
least cast a symbolic vote in this Chamber on critical matters facing 
our Nation--issues like war and peace, equality and justice.

Mr. Speaker, taxation without representation is tyranny. In the 
aggregate, nearly 5 million persons residing in the District of 
Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Puerto Rico are 
wrongly, and I say unconscionably, being denied a vote--and therefore 
denied a voice--in the most important legislative body in the world and 
making a mockery of our commitment to democracy and equal justice.

As a supporter of freedom, democracy, and equality, I believe that it 
is long overdue for the citizens of the District of Columbia to have a 
Representative in Congress who can vote on the vital legislation 
considered in this body.

It is wrong, Mr. Speaker, that the citizens of the District of 
Columbia, who after all pay taxes to the United States, serve in the 
Armed Forces, and are subject to the laws and jurisdiction of the 
United States, are denied a vote in the body that imposes those taxes, 
raises and maintains the Armed Forces, and makes the laws that each of 
us must obey.

License plates in the District of Columbia remind us of their ongoing 
struggle for a proper voice in this Federal Government, reading: 
''Taxation without representation.'' The people in Boston felt so 
strongly about this in 1775 that they rebelled in Boston Harbor, 
launching the ''Boston Tea Party.''

This principle is no less vital today. We must not deny the 
territories of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, 
and the Northern Mariana Islands the right to have a vote in Congress. 
Doing so denies their important relationships with our Nation and 
contributions to our economy.

Mr. Speaker, I commend the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Hoyer, for 
introducing H. Res. 78, which honors and vindicates the residents of 
the District of Columbia and the territories. Not only do we appreciate 
their military service and tax receipts, we value their views and 
opinion in the halls of Congress.

I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 78. But let us not stop 
there. I hope all Members will support H.R. 328, the D.C. Fair and 
Equal Voting Rights Act, which will give full voting rights in the 
House to the nearly 600,000 citizens of the District of Columbia.