# HONORING THE 81ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM OF THE WASHINGTON ARMY NATIONAL  GUARD
## `87355d2f08099e24179e11d103496158`
`Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS — 14 October 2009`

---


Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
return home of the 81st Brigade.

In August 2008, it was a cloudy day in Eastern Washington when our 
community said goodbye to the men and women serving in the 81st 
Brigade. These citizen soldiers volunteered to serve a year in Iraq. 
The day they departed, we all had tears in our eyes. However, I also 
saw in every mother, father, wife, husband, and friend how proud they 
were of their soldier. I am grateful for the uncommon commitment as a 
''citizen soldier'' leaving not only family and friends, but putting 
your job and perhaps educational goals on hold.

I also want to applaud the families of the 81st Brigade. More often 
than not, as soon as a servicemember deploys, the spouse is faced with 
an unforeseen obstacle like their brand new car needing to go back to 
the shop or the refrigerator deciding not to work. The families of the 
81st Brigade have much catching up to do. They will have a Thanksgiving 
to celebrate, Christmas presents to open, birthday candles to blow out, 
Easter eggs to hunt and many, many kisses and hugs to share.

The operations we face in Iraq and Afghanistan have now lasted longer 
than World War II. In the last five years our nation has tasked every 
branch of the military and every component; active duty, National Guard 
and Reserve. Each has responded admirably and consistently. Our 
Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines are a vital part of that 
critical response in keeping America safe. We could not protect our 
nation if it were not for what each of them bring to the fight.

Mr. Speaker, the 81st Brigade recently returned on a sunny day back 
to Washington State. I am proud to welcome them home and congratulate 
them on a job well done.