# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `8736b104793e1cdb987a3ef3b56de856`
`Mr. STEARNS — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, the War in Iraq has been difficult for all 
Americans. I understand and share the American people's frustration at 
how the war has been conducted. No one wants to bring our troops home 
more than I do, but conditions on the ground should dictate when our 
troops should leave, not domestic politics.

Regardless of if you voted for the war or against it or support 
immediate withdrawal or not, there is one issue we can all agree. Our 
brave men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve our respect and 
admiration. The best way to honor them is to provide them with all the 
necessary equipment to be safe and successful as quickly as possible. 
One thing our troops do not deserve is to be used as a political 
bargaining chip for additional billions in unrelated and unnecessary 
spending.

 Unfortunately, that is what the Democrat leadership has done with 
the bill before us today. By playing politics, Democrats are ensuring 
that the troops will not get their funding prior to Memorial Day. Our 
troops do not deserve this kind of treatment. This is an insult to our 
men and women who put their lives on the line to protect our freedom. 

This is most unfortunate because the first amendment, which I urge 
all my colleagues to support, contains funding for some very vital 
programs. For example, it includes $75 million in FY 2008 and $300 
million in FY 2009 for traumatic brain injury care and research. In 
addition, the measure provides $95 million to address gaps identified 
by the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded 
Warriors. The funding is designed to improve case management, data 
sharing, and the disability evaluation system. These, among others, are 
very critical to our troops and their families. They deserved to be 
enacted, not held up for petty political reasons.

Certainly mistakes have been made in Iraq and a change of strategy 
was long overdue. Now that the surge has been fully implemented and 
been given time to work, there is no doubt that the security 
environment in Iraq continues to improve. General Petraeus has said 
that security progress is still fragile and reversible. Much work still 
needs to be done, but progress on the ground is undeniable.

The question we must continually ask ourselves is what is the cost of 
withdrawing our troops? Should the U.S. immediately pull out of Iraq, 
leave the terrorists emboldened and potentially put more Americans at 
risk? Withdrawal needs to be based on events not politics. It is 
important to stress that an open-ended American military commitment is 
both unwise and dangerous. Progress in Iraq must be measurable, 
enforced and based on more than just military progress.

Accordingly, Col. Christopher Hughes, who commanded the 2d Battalion 
of the 327th Inf. Regiment, 101st Airborne in Iraq, has identified a 
set of strategic benchmarks deigned to measure progress in Iraq. Col. 
Hughes has developed an event-driven sequence that leads to a 
legitimate withdrawal. His plan includes six phases and a number of 
different benchmarks that need to be met. I have attached this plan and 
make it part of my speech.

It's important to highlight that events, not an arbitrary timeline, 
needs to guide our strategy. Col. Hughes' milestones for an event-
driven withdrawal are strategic, operational and tactical. Such 
benchmarks include, holding insurgent violence less than or equal to 
one attack on Coalition and Iraqi forces per month, having 76 
operational oil refineries and producing 4.5 million barrels of oil per 
day. I ask unanimous consent to include in the Congressional Record 
Col. Hughes' full strategy for leaving Iraq.

The amendment we have before us today does not take an event-driven 
approach, but sets an arbitrary deadline based on politics not the 
situation on the ground. I urge my colleagues to vote against the 
second amendment today.

In addition, Mr. Speaker, I would like to take a moment to talk about 
a provision in the third amendment pertaining to the Montgomery GI 
Bill. As a veteran and a senior member of the House Veterans Affairs 
Committee, I understand the hardship and sacrifice of military service. 
I, along with many of my colleagues, have supported legislation to 
update and expand the GI Bill, and I am cosponsoring H.R. 5740, the 
legislation that this provision is based on. However, the House 
leadership decided to combine the updated GI Bill with a huge tax 
increase on many small businesses.

The Democrat tax increase would put a surcharge on the gross income 
for individuals earning more than $500,000 and couples with over $1 
million. However, of taxpayers with $1 million or more in income, 
nearly 83% report that some or all of that is income from a small 
business. This is a massive tax increase on the gross income of small 
businessmen and women who operate as self-employed individuals. They 
are the primary source of new jobs in our nation. Instead of raising 
taxes, Congress could fund the new GI Bill by reducing federal spending 
by a mere 0.1 percent over 10 years. I am certain that we can find one-
tenth of one percent of wasteful federal spending and apply that to 
meeting the needs of our 21st century veterans.

In addition, the third amendment includes $5.8 billion in FY 2009 
funds for levee rebuilding in Louisiana. This is in addition to the 
$7.1 billion the federal government has already provided to repair and 
enhance levees. Furthermore, $9.9 billion for foreign aid is included, 
which represents $500 million more than requested. These may very well 
be worthwhile programs but do they belong in an emergency, off budget 
spending package?

Lastly, I want to point out that the process of how this bill came to 
the floor today is not in keeping with the spirit and traditions of the 
House. As Speaker Nancy Pelosi stated in her 2006 document, A New 
Direction for America, ''bills should be developed following full 
hearings and open subcommittee and committee markups, with appropriate 
referrals to other committees.'' The Speaker went on to state that, 
''bills should generally come to the floor under a procedure that 
allows open, full, and fair debate consisting of a full amendment 
process that grants the Minority the right to offer its alternatives, 
including a substitute.''

 Furthermore, according to The Politico newspaper, ''There have been 
about three dozen emergency spending bills in the past 20 years, and a 
handful have passed without input from the Appropriations Committee, 
including billions in Hurricane Katrina aid and post-Sept. 11 funds. 
But none of the Iraq war funding bills have bypassed the Appropriations 
panel.''

Unfortunately, this supplemental bypassed the entire Appropriations 
Committee process altogether, and through the use of parliamentary 
gimmicks, avoids the input of both Democrat and Republican members who 
have real expertise in the subject areas involved, effectively shutting 
out the views of millions of these members' constituents.

To have the Democrat leadership cut off the people's right to be 
heard by such crass parliamentary maneuvers results hi great harm to 
the appropriations process and seriously undermines the credibility of 
the House of Representatives.

Our brave troops and millions of veterans deserve better. They do not 
deserve to be treated as political tools. We pass a clean supplemental, 
devoid of any unrelated, and unnecessary spending, that gets necessary 
equipment to our troops on the battlefield immediately . We should also 
pass a GI Bill that doe not unfairly tax small businesses. 
Unfortunately, the Democrat leadership decided to play politics, while 
our troops and veterans have to pay the price.









Appendix I: A Strategy for Leaving Iraq

