---
---

# HONORING ZACH COHEN FOR HIS WORK WITH OPERATION DVD
## `8748bbd114327c127c5aed57e2ef949b`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise before 
you today to recognize Zach Cohen, an extraordinary young man from 
Lower Makefield, Pennsylvania. Through his involvement with Operation 
DVD, Zach has shown exceptional selflessness and caring, well beyond 
his years.

The Charles Boehm Middle School seventh grader wrote me recently to 
promote the project, excited to help our community show support for 
troops overseas. Operation DVD was started by AMVETS, a national 
veteran's organization. Those running the project collect new or used 
DVDs and CDs, which are sent abroad to our service men and women. The 
goal of Operation DVD is to send over one million discs to soldiers in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, where outdoor recreational activity comes at 
great risk. By providing soldiers with music and movies, they can enjoy 
what little free time they might have in safety.

Zach became involved with the project when he was researching a 
community service project to complete in preparation for his Bar 
Mitzvah. He felt his love for movies and music would be shared by our 
men and women fighting overseas. But most important, Zach's attitude 
showed appreciation and maturity that hopefully rubs off on others his 
age. Zach wrote in his letter, ''I also think it's very important to 
support our troops and thank them for all that they do for our country. 
And I thought it was great that I had found a way to do a lot of good 
without having to ask people for money.'' Madam Speaker, we should all 
share this genuine thoughtfulness and consideration, especially for men 
and women who have sacrificed so much. And as someone who served in 
Baghdad only three years ago, I can attest to the affect these acts of 
generosity have on morale.

From the moment Zach discovered Operation DVD, he showed tremendous 
determination in spreading the word. He attended a Lower Makefield 
Township Supervisors meeting. He was featured in articles by the 
Yardley News and the Trend Midweek. He has sent letters to Bucks County 
school districts and various other community organizations. Madam 
Speaker, Zach's tireless efforts represent the potential of our youth 
for contributing to our communities through selfless and noble acts.
