---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE EXCEPTIONAL SACRIFICE OF THE 69TH INFANTRY REGIMENT,  KNOWN AS THE FIGHTING 69TH
## `874d14d1cf946ac1892c4e1c3bac169d`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the distinguished gentleman, my very good friend 
from North Carolina, who has always been a tenacious advocate for the 
needs of the military and military families at Fort Bragg. I don't 
reside in North Carolina, but I do know from our friendship and our 
many conversations that no one fights harder and more effectively to 
represent the interests of those who are at Fort Bragg, including many 
of my constituents, who are there now waiting to deploy to Afghanistan.

I am very proud to stand here as a sponsor of this bill to honor New 
York's 69th Infantry Regiment, known as the Fighting 69th, once fought 
as part of the Irish Brigade.

I also want to acknowledge my cosponsor, Congressman Peter King, the 
gentleman from New York, one of the earliest Republican sponsors of 
this measure which I have drafted.

Soon we will celebrate St. Patrick's day. That is a day when we will 
commemorate the enduring contributions of Irish Americans to the 
founding and development of this Nation.

In fact, if you read a book by Tom Cahill called ''How the Irish 
Saved Civilization,'' you would know that not only have the Irish made 
an enduring contribution to the founding and development of our 
country, but that their contribution transcends our country. When the 
world was a dark place, when the Roman Empire fell, when barbarians 
ruled, they tore down libraries, they destroyed all literature.

But it was the Irish who built monasteries. It was the Irish who 
brought scribes in who literally copied all of the great works of 
civilization. They preserved it. They handed it down from one 
generation to the next so that we would have it today.

In fact, it was Irish who did save civilization and similarly, it is 
the Fighting Irish, the 69th Infantry, that has saved America time 
after time after time and always answered their country's call.

Tonight, we put aside whatever political differences many of us have 
had in the past with respect to whether we should go to war in Iraq or 
not have gone to war in Iraq. That's not what this is about. Because, 
together, every Member of this House, Democrats and Republicans, 
support those who are fighting for our country and have answered the 
country's call.

We support men and women when they are in battle. We support them 
when they come home. I have always said thank God we live in a country 
that gives us the right to agree with the decision to go to war, the 
right to disagree with that decision, the right to remain silent. But 
no one has any right at all to forget the contributions that 
servicemembers make when they are called into duty. That is what this 
resolution is about.

Tonight there are a group of men who are in my friend from North 
Carolina's district who are at Fort Bragg. They are waiting to deploy 
to Afghanistan with the Fighting 69th. They are continuing the proudest 
traditions of being deployed to some of the most dangerous places 
around the world.

In the French campaigns of World War I, the island-hopping battles of 
World War II, in Iraq. That has been the history of the Fighting 69th 
since 1851.



In fact, it is safe to say that it was the 69th that saved the Union 
during the Civil War. And I would say, with apologies to my friend from 
North Carolina, the fact of the matter is that those of us on the north 
side of the Mason-Dixon Line recognize the fact that had it not been 
for the Fighting 69th, that we might have lost. Why is that? Because in 
1861 there was a rumor that the British were going to assist and aid 
the Confederacy because the British needed cotton and textiles. Had 
they done that, that would have tilted the balance. That would have 
ended the cause for those of us north of the Mason-Dixon Line.

But you know what? President Lincoln did something very, very smart. 
Knowing that we could not afford for that to happen, he rallied the 
Irish boys. He went into New York City, and he mobilized many brand-new 
Irish American citizens in New York City and asked them to fight for 
freedom and to fight for the Union. And they fought. They fought at 
Malvern Hill in Virginia, not very far away from here. They fought 
against the dreaded and omnipotent Louisiana Tigers. And they won that 
battle. It was one of the first battles that the Union won. We were 
getting beaten in many of the early battles. And when Robert E. Lee 
asked his staff, Who beat us? Who did we just fight? His staff said, 
General, it was the 69th New York, to which Robert E. Lee, said, Ah, 
the Fighting 69th. And that is how they got their name, and they have 
carried that tradition with them ever since, through four wars and a 
fight to come in Afghanistan, 19 campaigns, six medals of honor.

On 9/11, many of them went to the Lexington Avenue Armory. I was 
there just a few weeks ago. And then they went to Ground Zero. One lost 
his life, Firefighter Gerard Batpees, a first lieutenant in the 69th. 
And then they went to Iraq, men like Chris Daniels from Centerport, Lou 
Delapizi from Bay Shore, and Col. Charles T. Crosby, the commander of 
the 69th in New York City.

Mr. Speaker, I want to wrap up by telling my colleagues that a few 
weeks ago I visited with men of the Fighting 69th at the Bay Shore 
Armory on Long Island, and we had some good old New York pizza 
together, and I plan to visit with them in Afghanistan this July.

Many of us marched in St. Patrick's Day parades last week. Many of us 
will march again in St. Patrick's Day parades this weekend. And as we 
do, I hope we will remember the marches of the Fighting 69th, on 
Malvern Hill, in France, on Okinawa, where Private Ruiz won a 
Congressional Medal of Honor for single handedly destroying a Japanese 
pillbox. Private Ruiz, not exactly an Irish name, but the courage was 
Irish. On Route Irish in Baghdad, in Kabul and Jalalabad within weeks, 
that is where they marched and will continue to march. When they visit 
Afghanistan, they will be on some high mountains and in some very rainy 
and windy places, and I know we will think of them and apply to them 
this Irish blessing:

''May you always have walls for the wind,



a roof for the rain,

tea beside the fire,

laughter to cheer you on,

those you love near you,

and all your heart may desire.''

Mr. Speaker, may they come home soon to a country safer and sounder 
because of their courage.

I want to again thank the gentleman from North Carolina for his 
leadership. I also want to thank Major John Mark Pierre, an Army Fellow 
assigned to my office. He understood how important this bill was to me 
and his assistance was invaluable. I want to also thank Chairman 
Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for allowing this resolution to come 
to this floor.