---
---

# DEMOCRAT'S VERSION OF HEALTH CARE
## `875c14c57b12be4ce4d01b685d7163bb`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 20 July 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady from Minnesota. And as you 
talk about that percentage, 30 percent, the private business profits in 
the country, who would have been believed a year ago or 8 or 9 months 
ago, who would have believed that eight huge private sector entities 
would be nationalized by this administration?

We have three large investment banks nationalized by this 
administration, one large company, AIG Insurance, nationalized. Fannie 
and Freddie used to be private, became a government-sponsored 
enterprise, and now they're wholly owned by the Federal Government, 
with about $100 billion dropped into each and about $5.5 trillion in 
contingent liabilities wrapped up in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. And of 
course we have General Motors, 61 percent, and Chrysler a smaller 
percentage. I don't remember that exact number.

But then you've got, also, the Canadians that own about 12/1/2/ 
percent of General Motors and the unions that own 17/1/2/ percent of 
General Motors. There's not a lot left out there for the bondholders, 
the people that were the secured creditors, because they got aced out.

Who would have thought eight huge entities, hundreds of billions of 
dollars, and taking these companies off, out of the private sector and 
put them into the hands of government control?

And the President fires the CEO of General Motors and hires his guy, 
Fritz. And the President cleans out the board of directors at General 
Motors and appoints all but two of the board of directors of General 
Motors.

And then he says, the President says, I'm not interested in the day-
to-day operations of General Motors. I don't think we should be running 
the place. I don't want to do the nationalization of this. It is just 
something that we have to do.

And here's the irony of it. President Obama was elected at least in 
part because he attacked George Bush for going into Iraq and not having 
an exit strategy. Now, President Obama has gone in and nationalized 
these eight


huge private sector companies that I have listed here, and he says he 
doesn't want to be nationalizing and he doesn't want to be in the day-
to-day operations, but he names the CEO, replaces the board of 
directors. His car czar is on the phone every day with the chairman of 
the board of General Motors, sometimes multiple times a day. Well, that 
was the former car czar. We don't know what the future car czar is 
going to be. We've got 32 czars.



The President is in the formerly private sector. He got invested in 
all of that. He found a crisis, capitalized on it: nationalized. Now, I 
have read the Web page for the Democratic Socialists of America. That 
is exactly their plan. It is in print. In fact, it's more aggressive 
than on their own Web site. The President has nationalized proud 
private-sector corporations, and he has done so without an exit 
strategy.

All at the same time, he has been critical of President Bush for not 
having an exit strategy in Iraq. President Bush's exit strategy in Iraq 
is in print. It's called the SOFA Agreement, the Status of Forces 
Agreement, negotiated and agreed to by President George W. Bush. The 
exit strategy for Iraq was victory, victory with honor, victory and 
leave a legacy of a self-governing democracy of a moderate country that 
could govern themselves and that could control their own national 
destiny.

All of that is in place today, and President Obama is carrying out 
the exit strategy of George Bush to the letter, spelled out in the 
Status of Forces Agreement, without a peep in the media about what's 
going on over there. All they talk about is we're deploying out of 
Iraq. No, we're deploying out of Iraq cities back to the bases because 
the surge worked.

Now, President Bush had an exit strategy. He didn't talk about it 
completely because he had to be a little flexible. He carried out his 
exit strategy. He ordered the surge. He negotiated the SOFA Agreement. 
He handed over an Iraq in a war that was won. The war was won on the 
day that Barack Obama took the oath of office here just outside these 
doors, and now it needs to be sustained and maintained. Afghanistan is 
a lot harder, but there is an exit strategy in place set by George 
Bush. There is no exit strategy for these eight private companies that 
have been nationalized by President Obama.

When I see the picture of President Obama standing next to Hugo 
Chavez and when they ask me what that tells me, I say, you know, the 
chief nationalizer is our guy, not their guy. Our guy has nationalized 
more companies and more billions of dollars' worth of privately held 
assets than Hugo Chavez ever dreamed of doing--well, at least within 
the last year. Chavez might have added a bit more companies over time, 
but so far this year, he has only taken out one Cargill rice plant, and 
has nationalized that in Venezuela.

It is a chilling thought to think of how fast this Nation has lurched 
to the left. We've leaped off of the abyss, and we've got to figure out 
how to fly to get back to where we are in the free markets again.

So I would be happy to yield to the gentlelady from Minnesota to pick 
up from there.