# FORT HOOD
## `875f757bc2491d6c4abbebc317c423e5`
`Mr. CARTER — 2 February 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. I thank my friend for yielding. I thank my friend for 
mentioning these two bills that we've got out here. I tried a 
whistleblower case back about the mid-nineties sometime. A very 
interesting case. I won't go into the details. But it involved some 
organizations that were major political players and major financial 
players in Texas and a little small accountant who made a right 
statement but had


stepped on some good-old-boy toes and so they fired the guy when the 
truth was he was telling that there was a lot of money that they were 
losing. It showed me why we have whistleblower laws: so the little guy 
who discovers a wrong can be comfortable in going to right that wrong 
without fear of retaliation, of getting fired because he did--told 
about something that the big boys didn't like.

Well, we've got this Military Whistleblower Protection Enhancement 
Act. It protects military personnel from any negative action for 
reporting any regulation or law violation. Proposed protections for 
reporting ideologically based threat or actions a servicemember 
reasonably believes could be counterproductive or detrimental to the 
United States interests or security.


Basically, what we're saying to the ordinary soldier, to the soldier 
that was going through medical school with Mr. Hasan, to the soldier 
that was stationed with Mr. Hasan when he was a second lieutenant and 
then a first lieutenant and then a captain and as he got promoted to 
major, that somebody didn't have a fear that something would happen to 
their military career if they reported this guy was talking radical 
ideas to service people. He wasn't preaching religion to them. He was 
talking that blowing people up was good, fighting conventional war 
against terrorists was bad.

I mean, that's the kind of way he was talking. It didn't have 
anything to do with the Muslim religion. It had to do with terrorism 
being the right way to straighten out America. Excuse me? He was 
educated by the United States military. It kills me to hear that.

So I think it's a good bill. I hope we can get some action on it. I 
hope we can get it written into law. And I'm going to be working on it. 
I feel confident. I have a lot of folks that are cosigners to that 
bill.

This other one is pretty simple, too, really. What we had--and I can 
say this almost without--and I don't know the names and background of 
every one of these soldiers, but I have personally talked to several of 
them and the general consensus is everybody that got shot had either 
just come back from Iraq or getting ready to deploy again to either 
Iraq or Afghanistan.

And the reason we had mixed units that day at that center is because 
normally units go through as a group as they deploy, but these were the 
guys that were absent for some purpose. May have still been on the 
training range or something else. So they had to go make up by getting 
all the paperwork shuffled to get ready to deploy. That's why you heard 
it wasn't just one outfit that had all the deaths. It was multiple 
outfits around the Army because there are multiple outfits stationed at 
Fort Hood.

Anyway, I would argue these were warriors either returning from the 
war or going to the war and an enemy soldier, terrorist, disguised in a 
uniform of the United States military, walked into our warriors as they 
were peacefully getting ready and processing paper and started killing 
soldiers. And I do argue that's a combat situation. Whether you're 
killing a soldier in Afghanistan or Iraq or whether you're killing a 
soldier in a center at Fort Hood, if your intent is to kill soldiers to 
keep them out of the war against terror, you are an enemy combatant 
killing our soldiers. Therefore, they should be treated with combat 
respect.

This incident should be like we did for what happened at the Pentagon 
when it was attacked on 9/11. We declared that to be an incident in 
combat in the war on terror and the people who did heroic acts there 
received the appropriate medals and the appropriate benefits for being 
injured or killed in a combat zone.

I think Fort Hood and the incident that happened with Major Hasan 
should be a combat zone; and I'm trying to do it by statute. But it's 
been done by act of the Defense Department. I think it's time for it to 
be done. There are a lot of Purple Hearts that ought to be awarded, at 
least 43 that we know of. There are a lot of folks that should get 
civilian medals that were civilians that were accidentally wounded in 
the misfires. And there are benefits that attach to being killed or 
injured in combat. I think these people ought to get it. Just because 
they just got back from another country but they got shot in our 
country by an enemy soldier, I would argue they still ought to be 
treated as if they were wounded in combat.