---
---

# None
## `8774ff9f8fe941aff52146a9ecd22734`
`Ms. FOXX — 7 May 2008`

---


Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of sacrifice 
and service of PFC Adam Lee Marion of Dobson, North Carolina. Private 
First Class Marion, who served in the Army National Guard's 171st 
Engineer Company, made the ultimate sacrifice for his country last week 
when he fell in combat near Baghdad, Iraq.

Private First Class Marion's life exemplified the citizen-soldier 
ethic of the Army National Guard. He was known for his kindness and his 
heart for children. He loved to serve at home and in Iraq to protect 
the lives of these most vulnerable members of society. Taken at the age 
of 26, Private First Class Marion leaves a legacy of compassion, 
bravery and sacrifice.

His patriotism and selfless service to country is captured in his 
decision to deploy to Iraq with the 171st when he learned his original 
unit would not deploy. This is a remarkable sacrifice and a true sign 
of Private First Class Marion's readiness to serve his country even at 
the risk of his own safety.

His fellow soldiers testified to Private First Class Marion's 
professional skill as a soldier, his bravery in the face of danger and 
his sacrifice for his country. As the operator of a ''Husky,'' a 
vehicle that detects improvised explosive devises for convoys, he was 
on the front lines in Iraq. In fact, his team helped clear IEDs from 
more than 100 convoy routes during his service in Iraq.

Private First Class Marion is survived by his parents Pam and Don 
Marion and his sister, Adrian. His sacrifice for our freedom will never 
be forgotten. He was a man who was acquainted with the dangers of 
combat and yet gave his life to a cause much greater than himself. In 
this and much more he is a hero and he hands down to future generations 
a legacy of valor, honor and the love of freedom.

Madam Speaker, my prayer is that he will long be remembered as a man 
who faithfully answered the call of duty to country. My thoughts and my 
prayers are with Private First Class Marion's family. May they know 
comfort of God's presence at this very difficult time. The people of 
North Carolina and our nation are blessed to remember him as an honored 
son and we mourn his passing and celebrate his life.
