# CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS
## `8787dbef1c06cdd5d1defe5060c8c139`
`Mr. SCOTT of Virginia â€” 9 March 2009`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Thank you. Madam Speaker, I thank the 
gentlelady from Ohio for organizing this Special Order. The budget is 
an extremely important part of our work, and I thank you for allowing 
us the opportunity to discuss what is going on with the budget.

Before we can discuss the budget going forward, we have to understand 
where we are and the mess that we are in. Sometimes you need charts to 
adequately describe exactly what the situation is.

This is a chart from 1989 showing the budget deficit. Starting in 
1993, we went up to surplus. Unfortunately, in 2001, we had a complete 
collapse of the budget. 2008, the deficit will be about here. A little 
over $400 billion. 2009, it will literally be off the chart. So, this 
is what we are dealing with.

In 1993, we made the tough choices and eliminated the deficit, went 
into surplus, and had enough in the beginning of 2001, enough of a 
surplus to pay Social Security for 75 years without reducing any 
benefits or to pay off the entire debt held by the public by last year. 
We were in good shape financially in 2001, but we made the wrong 
choices. And the rest is history.

The deterioration in the budget from the $5.5 trillion surplus to the 
probably $3 trillion, maybe $4 trillion deficit, was a swing of almost 
$9 trillion. Almost $1 trillion a year deterioration in the budget.

This chart shows where the public debt has exploded. In 2001, we were 
headed by the budget projections to paying off not only the debt held 
by the public, but all of the debt; putting the money back in the trust 
funds and everything else. Instead, the debt has totally exploded.

Now, one of the problems with the debt is that more and more of it is 
coming from foreign countries. Primarily, Saudi Arabia, Japan, and 
China. And that has foreign policy implications. You can't negotiate a 
good trade deal when the next thing out of your mouth is, Can I borrow 
some money? When you're borrowing money from Saudi Arabia, obviously 
that has implications on our ability to negotiate gasoline and oil 
prices.

The debt held in foreign countries was headed towards zero. It has, 
again, exploded. Now we have over $2 trillion of our debt held in 
foreign countries.

Now, we got in this mess because we had unaffordable tax cuts, 
primarily for the wealthy. People get mad when you say ''primarily for 
the wealthy,'' but it was done, presumably, to create jobs.

This chart shows how, in the last 8 years, in terms of job growth, we 
have experienced the worst job growth since the Great Depression. 
Herbert Hoover is the only President on this chart who's done worse 
than the last 8 years.

There's very poor economic activity, as measured by the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average. This chart shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average 
from Hoover, Franklin, Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, 
Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton. The worst since Herbert 
Hoover in terms of Dow performance in the last 8 years.

Now, some people have said that all those tax cuts actually increased 
revenues. Well, that is not exactly true. Since 1960, this chart, just 
to break down the color code, a green bar is a year in which we 
achieved record revenues in individual income tax. Record revenues. A 
red bar is one where a record was not achieved.

You will notice since 1960, tax cuts, tax increases, recessions, 
depression; everything since good years, bad years, since 1960, there 
were only 2 years in which we did not achieve a record. So, to say that 
we had additional revenues wouldn't be saying much, because we always 
have revenues.

But it's even worse than that because in 2001 we did not achieve a 
record. 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005. We went 5 consecutive years, something 
that has not happened since they started taking records in the 1930s, 
did you go more than 2 years without achieving a record. You have had 
world wars and everything else. The record: 5 years without a record.

So, the cuts in taxes did not increase revenues. It actually 
decreased revenues. And, as I said, they get mad when you say the taxes 
were cut for the rich.

This chart shows for people under $20,000--from $20,000 to $50,000; 
$50,000 to $75,000; $75,000 to $100,000; $100,000 to $200,000; $200,000 
to $1 million; over $1 million, how much you got out of the 2001 and 
2003 tax cuts. You notice that if you made over $1 million, you did 
well. And if you made under $20,000, or even under $50,000, you hardly 
need ink to draw the bar.

There's one particular tax that, in the Obama budget, will be 
repealed. Put back the way was. It's about a $20 billion tax cut every 
year. And this is how it's distributed. If you make over $1 million, 
you get about $17,000. $200,000 to $1 million, you get several hundred 
dollars. $100,000 to $200,000; on average, you will get you will get 
about $1 a month. Under $100,000; on average, you will get not a dime.

Now, one of the things that is extremely important and why it is 
crucial that we get this budget under control, and that is I referred 
to Social Security. This is a Social Security cash flow chart, showing 
the blue bars are bringing in now more than we are paying out. In 2017, 
we will start paying out more than we are bringing in.

This is $200 billion deficit, a $600 billion deficit. By 2040, we 
will be approaching $1 trillion, paying out more Social Security than 
we are bringing in. If we had the $5.5 trillion, you needed about $4 
trillion in the bank today, drawing interest. We could pay Social 
Security for 75 years without reducing benefits.

Unfortunately, we are going broke, and this is one of the reasons we 
have to get our budget under control quickly, because otherwise we will 
get into a deficit situation in Social Security that we will never get 
out of.

One of the things that we have to do is make sure that the 
expenditures and tax revenues get back under control. Federal revenues 
traditionally, in the past, have been less than the expenditures. We 
have been spending more than we are bringing in. That is deficit 
spending.

By the mid 1990s, we actually reduced spending and increased 
revenues, to the point where we had that healthy surplus that was set 
to go as far as the eye


could see. Unfortunately, in 2001, we passed tax cuts that we could not 
afford, collapsing revenues and, in fact, even increased as a 
percentage of GDP, increased spending, creating this deficit. We have 
to get back under control where the revenues are more than the 
expenditures.

This year, we are out of control because we have had the stimulus 
package, we have had the bailouts, and everything. But this is just a 
1-year spike. And we need to get the budget back under control. And we 
can do that. Under the Obama budgets, we will be back into more 
traditional levels of deficits.

But, when we get down here, that should not be the end. That is just 
the first step. We are going to have to continue bringing spending down 
and revenues up so that we will have our surplus so that we will be 
able to afford Social Security.

The President's budget, the first thing it does is reinstates what is 
called PAYGO. One of the reasons that we could maintain fiscal 
responsibility in the 1990s is we had a process called PAYGO. Pay as 
you go. If you offer a spending program, you have to pay for it. You 
have to raise the taxes to pay for it or cut some spending somewhere 
else. If you want to cut some taxes, you have to cut some spending or 
raise some other taxes. Everything do you, have you to pay for it. And 
if you don't pay for it, you can't pass it.

Unfortunately, in 2001, PAYGO expired, and the tax cuts were passed 
without paying for it. Increased spending took place without paying for 
it. And we got into the ditch that we are in. We now are back under 
PAYGO, where we are going to have to pay for what we do.

One of the things that the Obama budget does, it presents an honest 
budget. There are many things in the last few budgets that were just 
kind of left out. We knew every year we'd been continuing some tax cuts 
year after year. We knew each year we'd put those back in. Those 
weren't in the budget as introduced.



The war spending. We know we are at war. There was zero for the war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan in the budgets as introduced. We knew we were 
going to spend money on those wars. In fact, there were about $250 
billion worth of known expenditures that we knew we were going to spend 
that were left out of the budgets. The Obama budget includes everything 
that everybody knows that we are going to spend.

So with PAYGO and fiscal responsibility, we are going to at least 
reduce the deficit 50 percent in the first term of President Obama; and 
after we get there, we will continue to make progress.

The President's budget makes significant investments in energy, 
getting us from dependence on foreign oil and creating millions of jobs 
in energy, creating clean energy jobs. His budget brings down the 
skyrocketing costs of health care, and makes focused investments in 
education, one of the things on energy, alternative forms of energy and 
conservation and significant research investments.

In health care, we need to make investments in cost control to make 
sure that we can control health care. The Social Security chart and the 
Medicare chart are very similar. The Medicare chart is actually even 
worse because of the accelerating health care costs. We need to get 
those costs under control, because if we don't get Medicare under 
control, health care generally will consume the entire budget. We need 
to make sure that we are investing in access to make sure that those 
who have insurance can keep it, because as the costs go up, people are 
losing their health insurance.

He is making significant investments in education, making sure that 
tax credits for education expenses are increased and Pell Grants are 
increased so more and more people can go to college. And we want to 
make sure that we invest in elementary and secondary education, 
particularly early childhood education.

The budget makes a unique investment in nurse home visits. These have 
been shown to significantly reduce a lot of problems, one of which is 
child abuse, which is highly correlated with future crime by these 
nurse visits. The nurse visits have been studied. I serve on the 
Judiciary Committee, and they have found that those who have had the 
advantage of the nurse visits were one-third as likely to be arrested 
18 years later as those who did not have the visits; education is much 
better off; child abuse is down. So those visits will be a very 
important investment in our future.

And, finally, the President's budgets continues large increases in 
veterans health care. We had significant increases 2 years ago and last 
year, and we will continue those increases so our veterans get the 
health care that they certainly have earned and deserve.

We need to make some tough choices. The President says one of the 
most difficult choices are making expenditures today that save money in 
the future. Nobody wants to spend the money today if the savings won't 
occur for 5 or 10 years.

One of the bills that I have introduced is the Youth Promise Act that 
makes investments in young people to keep them out of trouble. We are 
spending more money per person in incarceration. We have got more 
people locked up today per hundred thousand population than anywhere on 
Earth. We could significantly reduce the need for that correlation if 
we made investments up front, getting young people on the right track 
and keeping them on the right track. The Youth Promise Act does that. 
It has an interesting aspect to it. When you save money, the localities 
that come up with their local plans will try to identify where they are 
saving money, and those agencies should kick in to keep the program 
running.

The State of Pennsylvania did the collaborative approach that is 
anticipated in the Youth Promise Act, and they funded a number of 
programs for a total cost of approximately $60 million, $60 million, 
and they calculate they save over the next few years over $300 million, 
because they made those investments and reduced crime significantly. 
Nobody wants to make the first investment; so the Youth Promise Act 
will make those investments and, hopefully, the localities will 
continue the programs, saving significant money in the future.

But we have to make the tough choices. And if we don't make those 
tough choices, if we don't get the budget under control, we are going 
to be spending entirely too much money on interest in the national 
debt, we will jeopardize Social Security and Medicare. But with the 
leadership of President Obama, the Congressional Black Caucus is 
committed to addressing our priorities in a fiscally responsible way. 
Social Security, Medicare, and our future depend on it.

Again, I want to thank the gentlelady from Ohio for her leadership 
and giving us the opportunity to talk about the budget today.