---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `878930b23ae191e456de13c5a0544f6b`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 16 January 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I would like to particularly thank the 
Senator from Maine, the previous chairman of the Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs Committee, under whose leadership this bill was 
fashioned, along with myself, Senator McCain, and Senator Obama, who 
has now joined us as an original cosponsor. We have continued this 
battle. We lost last year, but we think this is an important provision, 
and sometimes you have to fight for something you think is right until 
you can convince a majority to join with you.

Senator Collins has stated the case very well. The underlying bill 
here, S. 1, and some of the amendments that have been filed to it 
represent a significant step forward in the way we in Congress will 
regulate our own ethics and provide for disclosure and oversight of the 
behavior of those who lobby us.

This underlying bill is not a perfect bill, but it is a very strong 
bill. Ultimately the test of it will be its credibility. This is 
comparable to other laws that we pass--for example Federal criminal 
law. We pass some good laws, but ultimately we depend on the 
independence of the investigative and prosecutorial system and the 
independence of the judges who adjudicate the cases brought before them 
not only so justice is done, but also that the system of justice we 
have created enjoys the respect and trust of the people of this 
country.

Here is the situation in this case. We have a tough, underlying bill 
with substantial reforms to congressional ethics and lobbying, but 
there is no change in the enforcement mechanism for implementing the 
broader reforms that would be adopted under the underlying bill. That 
is what we propose to do with this amendment number 30, establish an 
Office of Public Integrity. I will get to it in a moment, but I would 
also like to echo an appeal that the Senator from Maine made.

Unfortunately, I saw respectfully, in the wisdom of the 
Parliamentarian, the ruling has come down that this amendment would not 
be germane post-cloture. We have tried to convince the Parliamentarian 
otherwise. We have not succeeded. That is a given. We respect it. There 
is a process that sometimes reaches a conclusion in judgment with which 
we don't agree, but the process is so independent and reliable that we 
accept it nonetheless. What that means, obviously, is that unless we 
are able to bring this amendment, to create an Office of Public 
Integrity, to a vote prior to a cloture vote on the overall bill--which 
we presume will be tomorrow--we will not have a chance to bring it to a 
vote.

We have been told that unanimous consent--which is necessary to set 
aside the pending amendment and bring this up--will not be granted to 
this amendment. I urge our leaders and others to please reconsider 
that. We know--Senator Collins, Senator Obama, Senator McCain, and I,--
that we are still fighting upstream to get the necessary votes we need 
to agree to this. But I think it is important that we have the debate, 
that we have the vote, that we build support.

There are many new Members, and I don't presume to know how they 
would vote, and I know the new Members have gone through the process at 
home and they know the extent to which our constituents--Democratic, 
Republican, Independent--are unhappy with a lot of the way we do 
business. They believe there is too much partisanship and, of course, 
their views were affected by the scandals of the last few years.

When you think about it, it has been a difficult time for Congress. 
Of course, obviously, almost all Members of Congress conduct themselves 
in an ethical way, but we all suffer, and the institution suffers, when 
some Members do not conduct themselves in an ethical way. Look back 
over the last 4 or 5 years. In 2002, the majority leader in the House 
was indicted for conspiring to illegally funnel corporate money into 
State campaigns, a violation of State campaign laws. Another Member of 
Congress went to jail for exchanging earmarks for bribes. The FBI 
raided the office of a third Member in a probe of possible illicit 
activity. Lobbyist Jack Abramoff pleaded guilty and went to jail for 
wire fraud and conspiracy, and the investigations into his activities 
revealed what can only be characterized as the most sleazy, unethical, 
ultimately illegal behavior by Mr. Abramoff, his associates, and 
individuals in both the legislative and executive branches of 
Government.

One Member pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making false statements 
regarding political favors given to Abramoff in exchange for gifts. A 
former Deputy Chief of Staff for a Congressman pleaded guilty to 
conspiracy and corruption charges. A former official at the General 
Services Administration in the Office of Management and Budget was 
convicted of lying to various officials at GSA in an attempt to cover 
up favorable treatment he gave to Mr. Abramoff.

And just as the news of many of these scandals was winding down, the 
Nation was shaken again last fall by the news


of Congressman Foley's improper behavior. So who can blame the American 
people for having lost a lot of their confidence in Congress? As we 
left town last October for the election break, Congress's public 
approval ratings were hovering in the teens. To put any doubts to rest, 
I think the American people sent a message on election day that they 
wanted a change in Washington. Some of the exit polls were stunning 
because they showed that more voters identified corruption in 
Washington as influencing their votes in last fall's election than any 
other issue, including, much to my surprise, the war in Iraq.

America voted for us to clean up our act. That is what the underlying 
bill, S. 1, will do. But it will not do it as well as it should if we 
do not also reform the system by which these rules and laws are 
enforced. That is exactly what this bill does.

The legislation before us pledges to the American people that we are 
going to put the public interest above our own self-interest. We are 
saying no to gifts and travel from lobbyists. We are demanding greater 
disclosure from lobbyists about their activities. We are going to slow 
the revolving door between Congress and the lobbying firms of K Street. 
The bill before us is one of the strongest reform measures I have seen 
in the Senate. I am proud to support it. But, again, it needs an 
equally strong enforcement mechanism.

Last month, before the ink was dry on the House Ethics Committee 
report on the allegations of a coverup of Congressman Foley's behavior, 
the press and a lot of the people dismissed it as a half-hearted job, a 
kind of ''inside the Congress'' going-easy report. I do not accept that 
conclusion, but the fact is, when you have Members judging Members 
along the whole way of the process, that is where a lot of the people 
are going to inevitably end up.


I know many of my colleagues in the Senate will say the House has a 
problem, not the Senate. I would say a couple of things to that. First, 
we all suffer when any Member of Congress acts unethically and Congress 
seems not to be responding independently and aggressively. Who is to 
say the process we have for judging our own ethical problems will not 
someday soon also be seen by the public as having a problem. The public 
does not care whether the scandal occurred in the House or the Senate. 
To the public, Congress is Congress. We all swim together or we all 
sink together.

The fact is, under the status quo of enforcement in the Senate, the 
Ethics Committee, composed of Members of the Senate, investigate, 
recommend, and decide on judgment. We need to break that and create an 
independent part of the process, which is exactly what our amendment 
would do, to conduct the investigation and recommend an action.

There has been a lot of concern among Members about this amendment. I 
urge them to take a look at the details. I spoke with one Member 
earlier today who said he was concerned that an irresponsible ethical 
complaint would be filed with the independent Office of Public 
Integrity in the middle of a campaign or before--but particularly 
during the middle of a campaign--would be used in a 30-second 
commercial against an incumbent.

Of course, that can happen now if somebody files a complaint with the 
Ethics Committee. But, in fact, I think the proposal we have made is 
aimed at an independent investigation but protecting against exactly 
that kind of abuse.

Let me go through the process, briefly, to reassure Members. A 
complaint may be filed with the Public Integrity Office by a Member of 
Congress, an outside complainant or the Office itself at its own 
initiative. No complaint may be accepted against a Member within 60 
days of an election involving that Member. So we are trying to separate 
this from a campaign caper.

Within 30 days of filing, the director must make an initial 
determination as to whether to dismiss the case or whether there are 
sufficient grounds for conducting an investigation. During that time, 
the Member who is the subject of the complaint may challenge the 
complaint. The director may dismiss a complaint that fails to state a 
violation, lacks credible evidence of a violation or relates to a 
violation that is inadvertent, technical or otherwise of a de minimis 
nature.

I urge my colleagues to particularly listen to this.




 The Director may refer a case that has been dismissed to 


 the Ethics Committee for the Ethics Committee to determine if 


 the complaint is frivolous. If the Ethics Committee 


 determines that a complaint is frivolous, the committee may 


 notify the Director not to accept any future complaint filed 


 by that same person and the complainant may be required to 


 pay for the costs of the office resulting from the complaint.


This is meant to be independent, but it is also meant to be fair and 
to protect Members from the political abuse of the process we are 
creating. There is not publicity on this until some judgment is made, 
so that the prospects for misuse in a political context, in my opinion, 
are actually less under this proposal of ours than they are in the 
current system.

This Office of Public Integrity assures the American people that each 
ethics case is examined by this independent entity. But the Ethics 
Committee would in no way lose its authority to be the ultimate judge 
of whether a violation has occurred because that is the authority it 
has, pursuant to the Constitutional provision that Members of each 
Chamber shall regulate their own behavior.

It is an interesting fact that the Ethics Committee itself has 
occasionally retained independent counsel to investigate ethics 
complaints that come before it. This, in part, I know, is a reflection 
of the committee's concern that it doesn't have sufficient staff to 
handle all the investigations that come before it. But I think it is 
also a reflection of a judgment that motivates this amendment--that 
there are times when a charge is made against a Senator before a 
committee of his peers or her peers, Senators, and to establish real 
credibility for the investigation the Ethics Committee itself has 
brought in an independent investigator. We are saying that makes good 
sense, and that is exactly what our amendment would do on an ongoing 
basis.

Finally, I wish to note that at the suggestion of our friend and 
colleague from Arizona, Senator McCain, we are assigning, under this 
amendment, to this Office of Public Integrity, the role of recommending 
to the Ethics Committee the approval or disapproval of privately funded 
travel by Members and staff. The underlying bill restricts privately 
funded travel that may be accepted by Members of Congress and contains 
a new pre-approval process for privately funded travel. Giving this 
responsibility to this Office of Public Integrity, independent as it 
is, I think will help assure the American people that travel requests 
by Members of the Senate will be scrutinized independently by this 
independent office.

I will conclude, noting that the time is coming to go to the 
discussion of the three pending amendments. This proposal for an Office 
of Public Integrity is entirely consistent with the Constitution's 
mandate that each House of Congress determines its own rules and 
sanctions its own members. It is a proposal consistent with the 
practice of the Ethics Committee of bringing in outside counsel on 
occasion to assist in its work. It is 100 percent consistent with the 
message the American people sent in November: for Congress to conduct 
itself with honor and dignity, in a fashion that earns their trust.

This is a sensible, strong effort to assure the people who are good 
enough to send us to Washington that we are not only adopting reforms 
in our lobbying regulations and laws and our ethics regulations and 
laws, but we are taking strong action to make sure those reforms are 
well enforced, as they should and must be if we are to restore the 
public's confidence in our work. This is an important amendment. It 
deserves a vote. I appeal to my colleagues and leaders to give it that.

I yield the floor.