# None
## `87a9e210728a8252637463dba5ca8603`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. Thank you, Congressman Price. Thank you for doing 
the Official Truth Squad. It is an honor to be here with Colonel Kline. 
Like he said, the number of our Vietnam veterans is declining every 
year, and we are fortunate enough to serve with some great heroes from 
that war in this body.

It is interesting that we have talked about micromanaging, we have 
talked about different people taking on the role of general. Today in 
the Committee on Government Reform when we were passing out a bill that 
I feel is unconstitutional to give the D.C. Delegate the ability to 
vote and also creating another seat in Utah, I was reading the 
Constitution and I came across the part where it called the President 
the Commander in Chief. This is something that our Founding Fathers I 
think had experienced through the Revolutionary War and through the 
different militias and the different bands of people, that they 
understood that we needed one Commander in Chief. So they gave that 
responsibility to the man who is ultimately responsible for what goes 
on in this country, the guy that, as Harry Truman put it, the buck 
stops here. They gave the President the responsibility to be the 
Commander in Chief.

Now, we have several people in this body who I think want to be the 
Commander in Chief. In fact, I think we have got probably over 200 
people that think they need to be the Commander in Chief. But the truth 
of it is our Constitution only gives that to one person.

What the Constitution also does is give Congress the ability to put 
forth funds for this war. If that is what the President decides to do, 
it gives Congress the ability to do that. It also gives them the 
ability to declare war.

This House voted and the Senate voted to authorize President Bush to 
use the military force that he has used, and if they don't like that, 
then they need to do something to call that authority back or to 
reauthorize or not to reauthorize. But we need to quit micromanaging 
and interfering with the affairs of our military leaders. General David 
Petraeus was approved unanimously in the Senate. Then the very next 
week they are trying to tell him how to run the war.

The other interesting thing is, and I think Ms. Foxx spoke about all 
the pork that is in this supplemental bill to fund the war, which, by 
the way, I think the President asked for about 3 or 4 weeks ago, so we 
want to make sure we do have these funds for our troops and not just 
keep prolonging it. But it would be good to hurry and bring this bill 
to the floor, since they have called it an emergency spending bill. But 
as Ms. Foxx pointed out, there are several things in there that really 
aren't what I would consider emergency spending.

One of the other things that has been taken out of that is the Iran 
language. I don't know if you had seen that or Colonel Kline or any of 
you had seen that, but they have taken the Iran language out of it.

I wanted to quote something, Congressman, because I think this is 
kind of what we are seeing out of the majority party, is they will say 
one thing about one situation and something counter to that on 
something else.

Here is what was said about the Iran situation: ''I don't think it 
was a very


wise idea to take things off the table if you are trying to get people 
to modify their behavior and normalize it in a civilized way.''

That was a quote from Representative Gary Ackerman, talking about 
that if we tied the hands of the President, that it would take away any 
threat off the table that he might have to use against Iran to make 
them follow the U.N. resolution or some of the things that we have 
asked them to do. I think that is very unusual, or at least concerning 
to me, that on the one hand they are tying the President's hands on 
what he is doing in Iraq, but they don't want to tie his hands on what 
he is doing in Iran.

Hopefully one day we will see some decisive leadership come out of 
this Congress. I think that the Republicans gave 12 good years of 
leadership, and I hope that the American people will miss that one day, 
as bad as we were at times. I hope that they will miss that and want to 
put us back in that position where we can earn our way back into the 
leadership of this country.

But I certainly hope that in the next year and a half that we don't 
do things that will ruin our reputation with freedom-loving people all 
over this world, that the American people don't keep their word.

Colonel Kline, I can't help but just think about that picture of that 
last helicopter leaving South Vietnam and those people standing on the 
top of that government building with their hands reached out, knowing 
that after our troops pulled out because of political pressure that 
some of those people were probably murdered and massacred the next day, 
or at least within the next 30 days.