---
---

# IRAQ DEBATE
## `87ad45d4ead848abf6b872c4d2fba21f`
`Mr. REID — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, nearly everything we do in this body--and I 
will be happy to respond to the distinguished Republican leader--nearly 
everything we do in this body is determined by unanimous consent. We 
have matters that come before this body--and that is how we get here, 
is with unanimous consent. I can't imagine why there would be anyone 
who would require 60 votes unless they didn't want us to go forward--
unless they didn't want us to go forward. That obviously is the message 
we are giving around the country. Look at any newspaper: ''GOP 
Threatens to Block Vote on Resolution.'' That, Mr. President, is USA 
Today. That is only one newspaper. They are all over America, the same 
thing.

This is an effort to stop. For every day we are not able to debate 
the Iraq resolution means one less day, and maybe we would not be able 
to get to it because of the continuing resolution. As I said earlier, 
we have been told by letters I received from Republicans that they are 
going to filibuster the continuing resolution. Today, starting today 
whenever we came in--and we came in late because we knew we had this 
procedural vote--we should have been debating Warner and McCain, but we 
are not. And now, if cloture is invoked, there is 30 hours after that 
before we can get to debating this and by then, frankly, it is too 
late. We will not be able to do it because of the continuing 
resolution.