---
---

# None
## `87cd168352e942ee881b3d49fdb0f347`
`Mr. OBEY — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Then let me yield myself 2 minutes before the gentleman 
closes.

Mr. Speaker, 2 nights ago I was watching the Public Television series 
on the Iraq War, and I saw one of the gentlemen who is generally 
regarded as being one of the intellectual architects of that war, 
Richard Perle, say the following: ''We do not leave the battlefield 
with the first casualty.''

I would simply note that an awful lot of people who have never seen a 
battlefield or been anywhere near one seem to be awfully anxious to 
make that kind of a statement.

When I heard that comment, I was reminded of a comment of my old 
friend, the philosopher, Archie the Cockroach, who said once that there 
is always a comforting thought in time of trouble when it's somebody 
else's trouble.

But as the gentleman from Pennsylvania has pointed out, there has 
been no sense of shared sacrifice in this country over this war. The 
only sacrifice most Americans are being asked to undergo is to take a 
tax cut.

Well, it seems to me that we ought to start asking whether it is 
right and indeed whether it is moral to allow a tiny band of American 
citizenry, military families, to bear the entire burden of this war 
that so many noncombatants seem to be so enthusiastic about. It seems 
to me we need to bring about a different policy that will indeed have 
equal sacrifice.

There are a lot of people who are apparently willing to fight to the 
last drop of somebody else's blood. I think it is time for that to 
stop.

We, on this side of the aisle, choose to take seriously the 
gentleman's motion, even though he himself indicates he does not intend 
to take his own motion seriously because he intends to vote against it.

I would urge that every Member on this side of the aisle, and I hope 
on the other side, would take this motion with the deadly seriousness 
that it deserves. Because lives are at stake. They are the lives of 
innocent Iraqis and they are the lives of innocent American troops who 
are simply being asked to carry out a policy which is increasingly 
futile.

I urge an ''aye'' vote on the gentleman's motion.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

