# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `87d84556354896a2f0870dbbb9314c77`
`Mr. SCHIFF â€” 9 July 2009`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the gentlewoman.

I rise in strong support of the 2010 State-Foreign Ops Appropriations 
bill and congratulate my Chair and friend, Nita Lowey, for her 
leadership in crafting a bill that not only addresses critical national 
security needs, but does so in a cost-effective manner.

After too many years in which diplomacy and smart power were shunted 
aside, this legislation is a reassertion of American leadership in 
helping to assure a brighter, more peaceful future for America's 
children and for children around the world.

I am particularly concerned about Somalia's renewed descent into 
chaos and the prospect that al Qaeda, which is under increasing 
pressure along the Afghan/Pakistan frontier, will take advantage of the 
power vacuum in that country as it did in Afghanistan during the 1990s.

This must not be allowed to happen. And the U.S. must be willing to 
work with the United Nations, the African Union, and nongovernmental 
organizations to help stabilize Somalia and create an atmosphere in 
which governance and security are again possible.

This will be a long and difficult process, and in the main it must be 
driven by the Somalis themselves. But I was gratified that the bill 
includes aid above the President's request to foster economic growth, 
encourages the State Department to continue its support of Somali 
refugees in neighboring countries and, most importantly, provides $102 
million to support both the African Union mission in Somalia and 
security sector reform within Somalia itself.

In this bill, even as we have provided funding for important 
initiatives like that, and we provided robust funding to increase the 
size of our Foreign Service and USAID professionals to revamp our aid 
to Pakistan and to help it to better confront the threat from al Qaeda, 
to provide crucial aid to key Middle Eastern allies Israel, Jordan and 
Egypt, to ramp up our efforts to fight the scourges of malaria, HIV/
AIDS, and tuberculosis, and fully meet our obligations to the United 
Nations, Ms. Lowey, Ranking Member Granger, and the staff of the 
subcommittee have also been mindful of the state of our economy here at 
home. In fact, this bill is $1.2 billion, or 2.4 percent, below the 
President's spending, and $3.2 billion, or 6 percent, below the 
administration's request.

Finally, I am very pleased the bill includes $48 million in economic 
assistance to Armenia, as well as an increase in humanitarian 
assistance to Karabakh to $10 million, and maintains military 
assistance parity to both countries at $3 million, and the IMET 
assistance at $450,000 each.

Importantly, the report accompanying the bill references the policy 
of parity in military assistance provided to Armenia and Azerbaijan.