---
---

# None
## `87e58d9e9f73acc6fa8bb9d75ecb0973`
`Mr. TURNER — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, today Iraq remains the most important 
issue facing our Nation. The American people want congressional action 
in a bipartisan fashion. The rhetoric of the last 6 months has left the 
American people saddened that the work on this


House floor has been focused upon partisan division. The most important 
action this House of Representatives could take today is to support our 
troops by coming together in a bipartisan effort.

I want to thank Chairman Skelton, and I also want to thank 
subcommittee Chairman Abercrombie for his leadership on H.R. 3087, 
which gives us an opportunity for a bipartisan step in the Iraq debate.

I am a cosponsor of this bill, which was reported out of the Armed 
Services Committee by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 55-2.

H.R. 3087, as amended, supports our troops, our national interests, 
and our counterterrorism operations against al Qaeda in Iraq.

The bill requires our Department of Defense to undertake robust and 
comprehensive contingency planning for a redeployment of the Armed 
Forces from Iraq. The bill recognizes that the role and mission of our 
Armed Forces in Iraq will change and properly acknowledges that the 
Government of Iraq must be responsible for Iraq's future.

As America's responsibilities shift, our focus must include planning 
to protect our vital national interests and our troops.

In a letter I sent to our Speaker, Speaker Pelosi, on August 1, 2007, 
I elaborated saying that, for example, this bill states the contingency 
planning element should include ensuring appropriate protection for the 
Armed Forces in Iraq, providing appropriate protection in Iraq for 
United States civilians, contractors and third-party nationals, and 
Iraqi nationals who have assisted the United States mission in Iraq, 
maintaining and enhancing the ability of the United States Government 
to eliminate and disrupt al Qaeda, and affiliated terrorist 
organizations and preserving military equipment necessary to defend the 
national security interests of the United States.

I want to thank Chairman Abercrombie for his leadership on this bill 
and for his insistence that this bill come to the House floor for a 
vote. I urge all of my colleagues in the House to support this bill.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.