---
---

# None
## `87fe92a8f567aabbdd4b04d38fd0b5a2`
`Mr. GOODLATTE — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. GOODLATTE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 10 courageous 
men and women whose lives were brutally cut short in Nuristan Province, 
Afghanistan, on August 5th, 2010. These individuals devoted their lives 
to helping others, and unfortunately, paid the ultimate price.

In particular, I would like to recognize and honor Brian Carderelli, 
a constituent of mine from Harrisonburg, Virginia. Mr. Carderelli was a 
recent graduate from James Madison University and was working to 
chronicle the work of the aid workers by recording them in photographs 
and video. Unlike many new college graduates, Mr. Carderelli chose to 
pursue a career in a challenging foreign environment, where his 
dedication to improving the lives of others took priority. His work 
with the International Assistance Mission and the International School 
of Kabul are a testament to that dedication.

Though the work of Mr. Carderelli and the International Assistance 
Mission team was certainly valued by those they helped, unfortunately 
not everyone appreciated their efforts. For several years, the Taliban 
ruled Afghanistan with brutality and terror. Intolerance for other 
religions and ignorance of human rights was standard. While the 
situation for the citizens of Afghanistan has improved since the rule 
of the Taliban, their presence has not been eliminated, and their 
brutal tactics persist.

The work of Brian Carderelli and his nine fellow workers is the work 
that will ultimately erode support for the Taliban and end that chapter 
in the country's history for good. Their efforts were selfless and 
humble, and are an inspiration to us all. These dedicated individuals 
will be missed, but the untold impact that each one of them had on the 
lives that they touched will certainly not be forgotten.
