# None
## `880a5d83e8d106758ddab3c8762821f0`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. As I mentioned earlier, we see this debate and vote 
about the need to maintain the ability to win current wars and to guard 
against future challenges. While respecting Secretary Gates and his 
desire to emphasize winning current conflicts, we feel his stance with 
respect to the F-22 does not adequately account for other kinds of 
threats.

Specifically, I find DOD's assumption that F-22s will only be 
required in one major contingency or theater to be totally unrealistic. 
This is the assumption the 187 number is based on. Given the ability 
and proliferation of advanced surface-to-air missiles which require 
stealth to counter, and numerous hostile nations' desire for these 
SAMs, the likelihood of an adversary outside east Asia requiring these 
systems in the near to midterm is increasingly likely.

In fact, in the press recently there have been reports about a 
potential adversary seeking to buy the S-30s from Russia. The F-22 is 
the only weapon system America has that is capable of penetrating the 
S-30. There is a follow-on, more sophisticated surface-to-air missile 
being produced by the Russians today. That missile, again, will 
proliferate around the world at some point in time, and the only weapon 
system in the inventory of the United States that has capability of 
penetrating airspace where those weapons exist is the F-22.

The administration's current plan for F-22 basing would result in no 
F-22s being stationed in Europe or being


available to address a crisis situation requiring penetrating denied 
airspace in the Middle East.

At the press conference announcing his budget recommendations on 
April 6, 2009, Secretary Gates said there was no military requirement--
I emphasize that, ''military requirement''--beyond 187 F-22s, and the 
Air Force agreed.

On this specific issue, either Secretary Gates misspoke or he was 
given incorrect information. In any case, this statement has been 
repeatedly contradicted by his Air Force leadership.

The Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Schwartz, in February of 
2009, said he suggested he would request some additional 60 F-22s and 
present analysis supporting that number to the Secretary of Defense 
during formulation of the fiscal year 2010 budget. He commented that 
this request was driven by analysis as opposed to some other 
formulation and spoke of 243 as being a moderate-risk number of F-22s.

On April 16, 2009, after Secretary Gates's budget announcement, while 
speaking at a National Aeronautics Association event, General Schwartz 
stated, regarding the F-22: ''243 is the military requirement.'' He 
commented that 243 would have been a moderate-risk inventory.

On May 19, 2009, before the House Armed Services Committee, General 
Schwartz testified 243 is the right number of F-22s. Before the Senate 
Armed Services Committee on April 21 of this year, General Schwartz 
said he gauged the risk of a fleet of 187 F-22s as ''moderate to 
high.''

Mr. President, 187 F-22s puts America in a ''moderate to high'' risk 
category, according to the Chief of Staff of the United States Air 
Force.

There have been other generals who have made statements with respect 
to the F-22. I commend these gentlemen because they are, frankly, 
putting their military future at risk. I know they probably received 
some harsh phone calls from the leadership. But I know this too. They 
have also received a lot of calls from majors and captains and 
lieutenants and Air Force academy students today, as well as Army foot 
soldiers, just like I have. I know they have gotten those phone calls 
because I have gotten those phone calls thanking me for being willing 
to stand up and say: Mr. Secretary, you are wrong about this, and we 
need more F-22s.

Air Combat Command holds the need for 381 F-22s to provide air 
superiority to our combatant commanders and protect against potential 
adversaries.

General Corley, who is the Commander of Air Combat Command, stated 
that a fleet of 187 F-22s puts execution of our national military 
strategy at high risk in the near to midterm. Air Combat Command 
analysis shows a moderate risk force can be obtained with an F-22 fleet 
of approximately 250 aircraft.

The F-22 underpins our ability to dissuade and defer. Simply put, 243 
gives us the required global coverage with 180 combat-coded jets versus 
115 to 126 combat-coded jets that we are going to get if we terminate 
this program with 187 F-22s being purchased.

Mr. President, 180 combat deployed F-22s allows us to quickly win 
major contingencies with a moderate risk. Lower numbers of F-22s would 
sacrifice global coverage during a major contingency, encouraging 
adversaries to take advantage of a diminished ability to ensure air 
sovereignty. Out of dozens of studies conducted by DOD regarding the F-
22, every study except one recommended procuring at least 243 F-22s.

The one study that did not was conducted by the DOD staff without any 
Air Force input and was based on the assumption that F-22s would only 
be required in one scenario, which, as stated earlier, is an 
unrealistic assumption.

General Schwartz and Secretary of the Air Force Donley have spoken 
often on this issue in the last several months, including an op-ed they 
put in the paper on April 13. I understand there is another letter 
coming from them. I look forward to reading it, although I am not sure 
it can say anything new.

In order to better understand his position, I, along with six other 
Senators, sent General Schwartz a letter on May 4 of this year. Let me 
quote from his letter. General Schwartz stated:




 We have been consistent in defining a long-term requirement 


 of 381 F-22s as the low-risk fleet, and 243 as the moderate-


 risk for both warfighting capability and fleet sustainment. 


 The F-22 program of record represents the minimum number for 


 current force planning at higher risk. While 60 more F-22s 


 are desirable, they are simply unaffordable.


I think these comments from General Schwartz confirm what we all 
already know, that the decision to limit production to 187 is budget 
driven, pure and simple, and 187 is a high-risk fleet and does not meet 
the full military requirement.

I would simply like to ask my colleagues: Why should the United 
States of America accept a moderate to high-risk situation in our 
ability to carry out the mission of the United States Air Force in the 
first place?

Substituting F-22s with other aircraft will not serve the Nation's 
interest. Some have suggested filling the remaining F-22 requirements 
with other aircraft such as the F-35, the Joint Strike Fighter. I am a 
big fan of the Joint Strike Fighter. It is going to be a great 
airplane. But as Ms. Grant stated, we have five flying today that are 
being tested. We are simply a long way away from the F-35 reaching a 
full production rate and having the capability for which it was 
designed. That mission that the F-35 is being designed for is entirely 
different from the mission of the F-22.

The Joint Strike Fighter is designed for multirole strike missions 
and not optimized for the air dominance mission of the F-22. All the 
force structure studies have determined that a complementary mix of F-
22 and F-35s is the best way to balance risk, cost, and capability. The 
F-22 is the only proven fifth-generation fighter in production.

The Air National Guard is charged with providing homeland air defense 
for the United States and is primarily responsible for executing the 
air sovereignty alert mission. In addition to the over 1,600 Air 
National Guard men and women who carry out this mission on a daily 
basis, the Air National Guard relies on legacy F-15 and F-16 fighter 
aircraft.

The projected retirements of these legacy aircraft--and we have in 
this budget that we are going to retire 250 F-15 and F-16s. I have no 
reason to think we will not retire at least another 250 next year, and 
this trend is going to continue.

Those retirements leave the Guard short of the required number of 
aircraft to execute this mission. GAO has commented:




 Unless the Air Force modifies its current fielding 


 schedules or extends the service lives of the F-15s and F-


 16s, it will lack viable aircraft to conduct ASA operations 


 at some of the current ASA sites after fiscal year 2015.


The F-15 has been a great airplane. The F-16 has been a great 
airplane. It has served us so well over the 30 to almost 40 years we 
have been flying those airplanes. In my home State at Robins Air Force 
Base, we have an Air Force Depot, a maintenance depot for aircraft. 
Last year, an F-15 literally fell out of the sky. It crashed.

Those airplanes were immediately sent to Robins Air Force Base. A 
number of those airplanes were sent to Robins Air Force Base to be 
checked out. They figured out what the problem was. We have now fixed 
the problem. But that is the kind of aircraft we are putting our brave 
men and women who are flying for the U.S. Air Force in today, and we 
are talking about extending the life of those airplanes for a period of 
time to meet the mission of the National Guard.

No plan has been developed to fill the shortfall through either 
modernized legacy aircraft or new aircraft procurement if we stop the 
production of F-22s at 187. Some 80 percent of the F-16s will be gone 
in 8 years.

According to LTG Harry Wyatt, the Director of the Air National Guard, 
the nature of the current and future asymmetric threats to our Nation 
requires a fighter platform with the requisite speed and detection to 
address them. The F-22's unique capability in this arena enables it to 
handle a full spectrum of threats that the Air National Guard's current 
legacy systems are not capable of addressing. Basing F-22 and 
eventually F-35s at Air National Guard locations throughout the United 
States, while making them available to rotationally support worldwide 
contingency operations, is the most responsible approach to satisfying 
all our Nation's needs.

So the F-22 is not just needed to counter international threats, but 
as


we look at a map of the United States and we look at our various Air 
National Guard locations around the country, we need the F-22, 
according to the Air National Guard, to supplement the support that is 
going to be required for the mission of the Air National Guard.

Let me, for 1 minute, talk about another issue that is a part of this 
overall long-term mission of the F-22, and that is foreign military 
sales. The F-22 is such a technologically advanced weapons system that 
a decision was made several years ago that we were not going to share 
this technology with other countries, as we have done with the F-16 and 
the F-15, and heretofore basically all our aircraft.

That was probably the right decision, to a point. But today, with 
respect to the F-35, we are sharing technology on that airplane, which 
is based upon the technology of the F-22, with the Brits, who are our 
primary partner with respect to the development and the production of 
the F-35.

So we have made a decision we are going to share the stealthy 
technology primarily that is available on the F-22 and the F-35 with 
the Brits. The F-22 and the F-35 contain a lot of other technologically 
advanced assets. But we now have the opportunity to develop and produce 
a somewhat toned-down version of the F-22 to other countries. For the 
last several years, we have had interest expressed in a very serious 
way from other countries. One of those countries has been to see me, 
about 3 weeks ago, and said they are dead serious about looking it 
purchasing the F-22 as soon as the foreign sales version can be made 
available.

I happen to know there are other countries that have talked to the 
contractor as well as the Department of Defense about the potential, 
down the road, for the purchase of that airplane. Obviously, the 
contractor cannot get involved in it, but the Department of Defense has 
consistently said: We have made a decision to this point that we are 
not going to share that technology with other countries.

Well, we live in an entirely different global world today than we did 
10 years or 20 years ago. So it is time we started thinking about the 
potential for foreign sales of the F-22. Japan has been a very trusted 
and reliable ally. They need the best aircraft available to defend 
themselves over the long haul. Because they are an ally of ours in the 
part of the world in which they exist and because that part of the 
world has the potential for the development of future adversaries, it 
is critically important that we continue--and I emphasize that because 
we have sold them tactical aircraft in previous years--it is important 
that we continue to share the latest, most technologically advanced 
weapons systems with friends and allies such as the Japanese.

Let me read you a statement from former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff GEN Richard Myers regarding the need for an exportable version 
of the F-22. General Myers stated:




 Japan's F-15J force, once top of the line, is now 


 outclassed by the new generation of Chinese fighters such as 


 the SU-30MKK. Moreover, China's air defenses, which include 


 variants of Russian-made long-range SA-10s and SA-20s, which 


 is the S-300 family missiles, can only be penetrated by the 


 fast, high-flying stealthy Raptor or the F-22. Japan's 


 defense ministry has studied the problem closely and has 


 produced a very impressive tactical rationale for buying the 


 F-22 if its sale is approved by the United States Congress.


Only under the umbrella of air superiority that the Raptor provides 
can U.S. military endeavors succeed.

Let me quote from another well-recognized individual, retired GEN 
Barry McCaffrey, on the need for adequate numbers of F-22s. This 
statement is about a year and a half old, but it is applicable today.




 There is no single greater priority for the coming 10 years 


 for the U.S. Air Force than funding, deploying, and 


 maintaining 350 F-22 Raptor aircraft to ensure air-to-air 


 total dominance of battlefield airspace in future contested 


 areas.



 The F-22 provides a national strategic stealth technology 


 to conduct--long-range (Cruises at high supersonic speed 


 without afterburner) penetration (at altitudes greater than 


 15 kilometers)--undetected into any nation's airspace at Mach 


 2-plus high speed--and then destroy key targets (aircraft or 


 missiles on the ground, radar, command and control, nuclear 


 stockpiled weapons, key leadership targets, etc)--and then 


 egress with minimal threat from any possible air-to-air or 


 air defense system. It cannot be defeated in air combat by 


 any known current or estimated future enemy aircraft.


That is coming from a ground soldier, somebody who depends on that F-
22 and, heretofore on the F-15, to maintain air dominance and air 
superiority so the ground troops under his command can have the 
assurance in knowing that they can move freely without the threat of 
enemy aircraft.

Without more than 187 aircraft, we are not going to be able to 
guarantee the foot soldier on the ground that capability. The F-22 
Raptor is in production and is operationally deployed around the world. 
Continued F-22 acquisition is low risk, as the aircraft has 
successfully completed its development program and passed a stringent 
set of real-world tests. By all measures, the F-22 is now a model 
program and continues to establish industry benchmarks for an aircraft 
production program.

The F-22 program is on budget. The contractor team is currently 
delivering 20 F-22s per year under a 3-year multiyear program that was 
approved by Congress 3 years ago. The multiyear contact is firm, fixed 
price, meaning that the U.S. Government is buying a proven capability 
with no risk of cost growth. It is ahead of schedule. In 2008, every F-
22 delivery was ahead of contract schedule.

This ahead-of-schedule performance continues into 2009. Since early 
2006, every F-22 has been delivered on or ahead of contract schedule. 
The contractor is producing a high-quality aircraft. In military 
aircraft production, the highest standard for quality is zero defect. A 
zero-defect aircraft is evaluated by the customer to be perfect in all 
respects. In 2008, nearly one-half of the F-22 deliveries were 
evaluated to be zero defect--an exceptionally high level of aircraft 
quality.

Still to this day, no one can say for sure, with any analysis to back 
them up, that 187 F-22s is enough. The F-22 should be viewed in the 
collective as a tool in the toolbox.

Detractors argue that the F-22 is single-purpose. Throughout history, 
we have been effective in adapting the tools we have to the needs we 
have. All one has to do is to look at what we are doing today with the 
B-52. That airplane is 50 years old--older than that; it may be 60 
years old. There was a point in time when we thought we would retire 
all of the B-52s. It is a bomber. What are we doing with the B-52 
today? Today, the B-52 is flying close air support for our troops in 
Afghanistan. The SSBNs are being used by our special operations men and 
women, and they are doing a very effective job.

A general once said that the most tragic error a general can make is 
to assume, without much reflection, that wars of the future will look 
much like wars of the past. If we are going to pass a budget and 
develop a weapons system inventory that is based upon the wars of the 
past, then we are headed in the wrong direction. The war we are 
fighting today is entirely different from any conflict in which we have 
ever been engaged. We have been wrong every single time when it comes 
to predicting the next adversary we will have.

Senator McCain mentioned the July 10 Washington Post article on the 
performance and maintainability of the F-22. Let me say that we know 
nothing appears on the front page of the Washington Post by accident, 
particularly the week before an important vote. I guess I ought to be 
flattered by the attention. But for the record, the same reporter who 
wrote that article on the day of an important hearing in relation to 
the F-22 multiyear contract in 2006 is the same author of the July 10 
article.

The article in question bore absolutely no relation to the issues at 
stake. Nevertheless, it led to a new study on the savings that would be 
achieved through a multiyear contract, a study which was conducted at 
government expense. Despite the article's obvious attempts to obscure 
the facts and issues in the situation, that new study, done pursuant to 
request of this body, concluded that the multiyear contract would save 
twice as much as the previous study.

Just briefly in relation to the Washington Post article, by close of 
business the day the article was published, the Air Force had already 
issued a rebuttal. It concluded that of the 23 claims in the article, 
only 4 were true,


4 were misleading, 10 were false, and 5 required greater explanation 
and context beyond what the Post article reported.

I ask unanimous consent that a copy of the Air Force statement in 
rebuttal to the article in the Washington Post be printed in the 
Record.