---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `880f1cf7fe87be86f2a424aaac9f3582`
`Ms. PELOSI — 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for 
his exceptional leadership in the national security of our country.

My colleagues, for 3 days and nights, more than 350 Members of 
Congress have come to the floor to speak their conscience about the war 
in Iraq and the President's escalation proposal. I commend my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle for the tenor, for the most part, 
and the substance of their remarks.

There is one proposition on which we can all agree: Our troops have 
performed excellently in Iraq. They have done everything asked of them. 
And as the resolution states, Congress and the American people will 
continue to support and protect the members of the United States Armed 
Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably in 
Iraq. We owe our troops a debt of gratitude for their patriotism, for 
their courage, and for the sacrifices they are willing to make.

As a sign of our respect for them, particularly those who have lost 
their lives in the war, and for their families, I request that we 
observe a moment of silence.

Thank you.

We owe our troops a course of action in Iraq that is worthy of their 
sacrifice. Today, we set the stage for a new direction on Iraq by 
passing a resolution with fewer than 100 words which supports our 
troops and disapproves of the President's escalation proposal. Instead, 
Democrats have proposed a different course of action to the President.



Over and over again we have suggested a different plan.

One year ago, Senator Harry Reid and I stood with House and Senate 
Democrats to propose our agenda for real security, to project our power 
and our values, to protect the American people. Consistent with our 
real security agenda, Democrats have sent the President four letters, 
starting in July, and the most recent one the end of January, urging 
him to adopt a strategy for success, containing these elements: change 
of mission, redeployment of troops, building a political consensus, 
engaging in diplomacy, reform of reconstruction and a refocus in the 
war on terror.

In terms of changing the mission, U.S. forces in Iraq must be 
transitioned from combat to training of Iraqi forces, real 
counterterrorism activities, force protection and logistics. A shift in 
mission will allow the number of U.S. troops in Iraq to be reduced, 
diminishing their presence in the daily lives of Iraqis and minimizing 
the chance of these troops being caught in the crossfire between rival 
Iraqi factions. Ending the emphasis on a combat mission will allow the 
phased redeployment of our forces from Iraq beginning within the next 4 
to 6 months.

Declining troop levels will require fewer bases, and none of them 
will need to be permanent, consistent with legislation introduced and 
passed by this House by Congresswoman Barbara Lee and also introduced 
by Congressman David Price.

A smaller military presence in Iraq will also relieve some of the 
strain on


our troops, their families, and our military equipment. Success in Iraq 
requires more than military force, and that really is what this debate 
is about today.

General Peter Chiarelli, a three-star General, until recently the 
Commander of the Multinational Corps Iraq, observed in December, and I 
quote, ''We need to get out of thinking that this is solely a military 
conflict where we must simply apply more U.S. or coalition or Iraqi 
forces against an enemy that we can destroy. All our Nation's 
strengths--diplomatic, economic, political--must be leveraged to help 
the Iraqis find their way through this process.''

Unfortunately, there has been no sustained and effective effort to 
engage Iraq's neighbors diplomatically. Iraq's neighbors have the 
greatest stake in Iraq's stability and the role it will play in the 
region. Leaders of those countries are best able to help Iraqi leaders 
improve security by reducing ethnic tensions. To this end, an 
international contact group should be established to support a 
political settlement in Iraq and preserve Iraq's sovereignty.

Senator Reid and I also wrote to the President that an international 
conference should be convened to broaden support for the reconstruction 
effort that is essential if Iraqis are going to be put to work building 
their country's future.

On the subject of reconstruction, there has been little effective 
reconstruction in Iraq because of mismanagement and disappearances of 
funds. That is why we propose that, in order for the reconstruction of 
Iraq to attract international support, it must be conducted according 
to practices which are honest, transparent, and accountable.

Reconstruction must be guided by the kind of process set forth in 
legislation introduced by Congressman Patrick Murphy and the Blue Dog 
Coalition. The United States should take the lead on accountability in 
reconstruction. Politically, there has been no sustained and effective 
effort to engage rival Iraqi factions.

The U.S. must insist that Iraqi leaders make the political 
compromises needed for a broad-based and sustainable political 
settlement that will produce an inclusive political system in Iraq. A 
good beginning would be to press Iraqi leaders to amend the 
Constitution to achieve a fair sharing of power and resources. That was 
promised at the time of the referendum over 1 year ago.

The resulting political consensus will allow Iraqi security forces to 
challenge the militias on behalf of the nation and to disarm them.

Proponents of the President's escalation are equating the war on 
terror to the war in Iraq. As our esteemed chairman of the House Armed 
Services Committee, Congressman Ike Skelton of Missouri, a great 
patriot, has observed, ''Two conflicts. Two wars. And the two should 
not be confused. There are those who attempt to fuzz the two conflicts 
together as 'the war on terror,' but the wars are truly separate and 
distinct,'' Chairman Skelton stated.

The war in Iraq continues to detract from our ability to fight 
against the war on international terrorism effectively. We need to 
finish the job started more than 5 years ago in Afghanistan against al 
Qaeda and the Taliban and address other conditions around the world in 
which the appeal of terrorism breeds.

The longer it takes us to resolve the situation in Iraq, the longer 
resources and attention will continue to be diverted from the war on 
terrorism. Our ability to respond to the escalating conflict in 
Afghanistan and other potential crises in the world is constrained 
severely by the deterioration in military readiness to levels not seen 
since the Vietnam era.

There we have the six elements that we talked about: change of 
mission, redeployment of troops, building of political consensus, 
engaging in diplomacy, reform of reconstruction, and a refocus on the 
war on terror. By placing so much emphasis, instead, on dealing with 
the problems in Iraq militarily and not enough emphasis on sustained 
political and diplomatic engagements, the President's escalation plan 
repeats past mistakes.

The stakes in Iraq are too high to recycle proposals that have little 
prospect for success. The bipartisan resolution today may be 
nonbinding, but it will send a strong message to the President. We here 
in Congress are committed to protecting and supporting our troops.

The passage of this legislation will signal a change in direction in 
Iraq that will end the fighting and bring our troops home safely and 
soon. Our troops are working together to secure our Nation, and we in 
this House must work together to secure our Nation as well and to do so 
in a way that honors their sacrifice.

I urge my colleagues to support our troops and a new direction in 
Iraq by voting ''aye'' on the bipartisan Skelton-Lantos-Jones 
resolution.