---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `8820c1932cce62ab0fb60426e2b6d6c7`
`Mr. DORGAN — 24 July 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Let me say it in a different way, concluding in the same 
manner. I am not, with this, describing one person, one organization, 
one philosophy at fault. I am saying there is something wrong with 
respect to what I think is a failure here, that is a significant 
failure, part of which I hope and believe can be remedied by the bill 
that has been put together by Senator Byrd and Senator Cochran, dealing 
with homeland security.

It has been almost 6 years since the terrorists attacked this country 
on 9/11/2001. After almost 6 years and two wars in two countries and 
well over half a trillion dollars spent at home and abroad, the deaths 
of thousands in our military and the wounding of tens of thousands in 
our military, after all that period of time, we are told there is a 
sanctuary, a safe haven, a safe harbor for the leaders of the greatest 
threat to this country, the leaders of al-Qaida.

My point is, there ought not be anywhere safe on the face of this 
planet. If the greatest threat to our country exists in the leadership 
of this organization that is rebuilding training camps and terrorist 
training camps, then we have done something wrong. We must, as the 
Senator from West Virginia and the Senator from Mississippi suggested 
in this bill, we must rebuild our capabilities to defend ourselves 
against an attack on our homeland.

But even as we do that, we must rededicate ourselves as a country to 
save the first and most important job, the first and most important 
effort, to go after and eliminate the terrorist threat. I mean, it gets 
back to the debate we have had with--I respect other people's views on 
this, but we are going door to door in Baghdad with our soldiers in the 
middle of sectarian violence or a civil war when, in fact, the greatest 
threat to our country is in the hills somewhere between Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, building training camps and having the greatest capacity to 
attack our homeland because they have regenerated their strength.

In my judgment, that is a failure. So we have to rededicate ourselves 
on two points. No. 1, I believe we have to find a way to extract 
ourselves from the civil war in Iraq. Yes, we need to continue to do 
several things in force protection for our forces, training the Iraqi 
security and Iraqi police and Iraqi soldiers for Iraq's security, and 
also taking on the areas in Iraq where al-Qaida does exist.

But what is principally happening in Iraq is not about al-Qaida and 
terrorism, what is principally happening in Iraq is about sectarian 
violence and a civil war. My point is, we ought to see if we cannot 
make sure that we will change the policies in this country and begin to 
start fighting terrorists first.

That ought to be the priority. If the terrorists, al-Qaida, Osama bin 
Laden and their leadership, represent the greatest threat to this 
country, then why is that not the process by which we fight terrorists 
first? Instead, we are bogged down going door to door in Baghdad. Well, 
here is what we have. We have a piece of legislation on the floor of 
the Senate now that deals with homeland security.

We want homeland security, we want it to succeed. We want to be safe 
and secure with the ways to do that. One is to do what we have done and 
try to strengthen our ports, strengthen aviation, strengthen our 
borders. The legislation that has been brought to us today does all of 
that and more. This has money for mass transit security. Well, that is 
critically important. We know the danger and the potential danger to 
our subway systems, as we have seen in London with terrorist attacks.

Port security. We have had discussions on the floor of this Senate 
that go on and on and on, but we have these ships that come into our 
ports with giant containers. We are going to spend, I think in the 
appropriations bill on defense, we are going to spend $10 to $11 
billion to try to provide an electronic catcher's mitt for 
intercontinental ballistic missiles armed with nuclear warheads.

So if we can create a catcher's mitt of some type, or hit a bullet 
with a bullet when an ICBM is coming in with a nuclear warhead, we are 
going to spend $10 to $11 billion to try to solve that problem. The 
more likely attack with a nuclear weapon is a ship, a container ship, 
pulling up to a port at 3 to 4 miles an hour, pulling up at the dock of 
one of America's major cities with a container right smack in the 
middle of the ship containing a weapon of mass destruction. That is the 
most likely threat against this country. We are not spending $10 or $11 
billion to deal with that.



I went to a seaport once. In fact, I went to a seaport in Seattle, 
WA, because I do not know much about seaports. I come from a State that 
is not boundaried by water. So I wished to see what security was like 
at the seaport.

One of the things I remember from that visit was they had opened a 
container. Now, they do not open very many. I believe we have something 
akin to 11 million containers come into this country on container 
ships, 11 million containers. I believe it is somewhere around 3 to 5 
percent are inspected, and 97 or 95 percent are not inspected.


They opened the container. It was a refrigerated container. I was 
kind of curious. So I looked at the back of it. There it was, 100-pound 
bags of broccoli from Poland. I said: Well, I see now this is a giant 
container full of frozen broccoli from Poland. I can see now that 
because you opened the door in the back and you have cut open a couple 
of bags.

I said, what is the middle of this container? I see what is in the 
back. What is deep in the middle of this container?

Well, we do not know that. We assume it is frozen broccoli. We pulled 
some bags out to make sure there was broccoli in this container. But 
the fact is, they did not check that, they could not check it. So 
millions of containers come in and they are not checked.

Now we have what amounts to kind of a CAT-scan device for big trucks 
and containers, very expensive, but it is kind of like a CAT scan for 
your body; you run it past the container and you can see right through 
the container and see what is in it. It is very expensive, very 
difficult to get done on 11 million containers. The same is true for 
air cargo. We have a Herculean task to protect this country against 
those who are perfectly willing to kill themselves, as long as they can 
kill many innocent people. This is a very difficult proposition.

So again, I say to the chairman and ranking member on the 
subcommittee, I think they have done a terrific job. I deeply 
appreciate their work. I share the comments of my colleague, Senator 
Murray from Washington, about it, with respect to border protection and 
the Coast Guard and all those issues they have had to deal with, 
without unlimited money. The fact is, we have some limited funding.