---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `8821ff6cb39c7501a00a3f1056178710`
`Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this 
bill, but not without reservations and some concern.

I fully support the funding that is in the bill for the military--the 
bill addresses their immediate needs by providing protective equipment 
in supplies, and supports the sacrifices they and their families are 
making by retroactively providing servicemembers and veterans $500 for 
every month they served under stop-loss orders since 2001. It also 
plans for the end of combat operations in Iraq and refocuses our 
efforts in Afghanistan.

Following a news report by KHOU in Houston on Monday about troops in 
Iraq not having sufficient supplies, specifically individuals were 
having to ration water, find their own, or drink bulk water not 
intended to be potable, we need to ensure DoD has funding to supply our 
troops, and this bill provides for that.

My main concern however is that this supplemental did not include 
funding, or any assistance for areas affected by Hurricane Ike. We 
still have great unmet needs, and while there is funding to address 
other natural disasters such as wildfires, the Gulf Coast is still 
struggling to recover.

Ike was one of the most devastating hurricanes since Katrina, yet the 
small amount of funding that has been appropriated for the disaster has 
not been passed through by the Federal agencies to meet local needs. Of 
the nearly $6 billion in CDBG funding that was included in the combined 
Defense, Homeland Security, and VA Appropriations bill, nearly two 
thirds of that is still being held by HUD.

What has been delivered was divided among all areas hit by a natural 
disaster last year, meaning the Gulf Coast has received a tiny fraction 
of what is needed and what has been delivered to previous areas 
devastated by category 3 and category 4 hurricanes.

The 2009 hurricane season is nearly upon us, and we have yet to 
address the needs of what is left from the 2008 season. Additional 
funding would be ideal, but at a minimum, local areas like Galveston 
City and County need the local-match for disaster recovery assistance 
waived, and I intend to continue working with the Appropriations 
Committee and House Leadership to provide that assistance at a minimum.

Mr. Speaker, I fully support what is in this bill for our troops and 
urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it. However, I hope to work 
with you moving forward to provide assistance to an area still 
devastated and recovering from Hurricane Ike.