# None
## `88398ddc3e8685be9b93f9b168cb196c`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 1 November 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the 
Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center, its director Stephen 
Kleinglass, and the entire medical center staff, for being recognized 
as a 2007 award recipient at the 16th Annual Secretary's Robert W. 
Carey Performance Excellence Ceremony on November 1st, 2007. This 
Department of Veterans Affairs award acknowledges the highest levels of 
performance and service excellence through evaluation by rigorous 
criteria.

As the daughter of a WWII veteran, I feel strongly about honoring our 
veterans and their families. The professionalism and high quality of 
care provided by the staff of the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center is evident whenever I visit.

Serving nearly 75,000 veterans each year, the Minneapolis Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center is among the most active in the country. Through 
its partnership with University of Minnesota Medical and Dental 
Schools, it has distinguished itself by providing the highest quality 
health care to veterans. Minnesota and western Wisconsin veterans and 
their families have long appreciated the staff commitment to serve all 
veterans.

The dedication of staff to provide the highest level of care is 
particularly visible through their work to meet the great needs of our 
injured veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Minneapolis is 
just one of four locations in the Nation with a Polytrauma 
Rehabilitation Center designed to provide intensive rehabilitative care 
to veterans and service members who experienced multiple severe 
injuries, including brain injuries. Construction on a new Spinal Cord 
Injury Center is underway, and is scheduled to open in 2008.

The success of our Nation's veterans health system depends on caring, 
dedicated people serving our veterans, but they cannot do the job 
alone. On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier 
behind. As a Nation, let it be our pledge that when they return home, 
we will leave no veteran behind.

This year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the largest 
single increase in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration--
$6.7 billion. This funding is necessary to ensure that the Minneapolis 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and VA medical centers across the 
country have the resources they need to fund the increasing need for 
mental health, posttraumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury 
care, and to provide facilities maintenance, and to continue reducing 
the backlog of veterans benefits claims.

The Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center has a proven record 
of organizational excellence. The Carey Award recognition allows the 
leadership shown in Minnesota to serve as a model for other 
organizations in assessing their own transformation efforts, 
effectiveness and service performance. Most importantly, this award 
recognizes the outstanding efforts made by the staff on behalf of our 
veterans at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

Madam Speaker, please join me in commending the Minneapolis Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center staff for earning the Robert W. Carey 
Performance Excellence Award. These caring people exemplify the very 
best in public service.
