---
---

# None
## `8841e069f256daa162df2bf6aec8bc98`
`Mr. REID — 29 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, while Democrats and Republicans joined 
last month to pass the economic stimulus package, we agreed that it was 
an important first step in addressing our country's economic challenge, 
but we agreed it was only a first step, that we must do more to help 
America.

All Americans are struggling. We must do more to help Americans 
struggling to make ends meet. Yesterday Democrats tried to take that 
next step. We brought to the floor a genuine effort to help families 
and neighborhoods weather the growing housing crisis. But Republicans 
in the Senate blocked our legislation to help struggling American 
families, as they have done time and again on other important 
legislation.

Why did they choose obstruction over American families at risk to 
lose their homes? Senator Alexander, my friend from Tennessee, and a 
few others, said here on the floor that all Republicans wanted was an 
opportunity to offer amendments.

Anyone following this debate would know my Republican colleague was 
given some very bad information or that his or their staffs watched 
none of the floor debate on this issue.



I have said numerous times, both publicly and privately, that both 
sides want to offer amendments; that is, Democrats and Republicans, and 
both sides should have that opportunity. I have said that privately to 
the Republican leader, and publicly here on the floor, and in many 
press events.

I told, in fact, Senator McConnell more than a week ago that we 
intended to allow both Democrats and Republicans to offer amendments. I 
have made that commitment on this issue several times on the floor. My 
words are available for anyone to review in the Congressional Record.

There is only one reason why Republicans were not able to offer 
amendments. They refused to let us move procedurally to the legislative 
posture where amendments could be offered. We have here before us the 
Republican filibuster chart. You will note that we keep changing the 
numbers because they keep coming; 72 Republican filibusters, 72.

Last year, in less than 1 year, the Republican minority broke all 
records for a 2-year Congress in the number of filibusters. And we have 
another on the housing stimulus package.

The Republicans' decision to deny the ability to even take up this 
bill deprived both sides of the opportunities to offer a single 
amendment. As I said yesterday, why would you stop us from going to the 
bill? I have said: You can offer amendments. Then, if you do not like 
what happens, you still have 49; it only takes 41 of you to stop us 
from doing anything.

Why would you stop us? They are stopping us because they want to slow 
things down. That is the whole purpose. They do not want this minority 
to allow us to do something. I guess the direction is coming directly 
from Bush and Cheney.

My colleagues can talk all they want about amendments, but the record 
betrays the rhetoric. Yesterday's Republican press conference was 
before that vote. The Republicans held a press conference saying what 
it is that should be done with the housing problems.

Now, listen to this: As reported in the New York Times and other 
places, here is their solution, according to a public press conference 
they held before the vote yesterday to stop us from going forward.

Here is what they want to do: tort reform. That is going to really 
help the housing crisis, tort reform. The other thing they want to do 
is lower taxes. That is so Bush-Cheney that we look and we find that is 
why we are in the trouble we are today. When the President took office, 
there was a surplus over the next 10 years of $7 trillion. That is 
gone. As indicated by Nobel Prize winning economist Stiglitz yesterday, 
the war has and will cost us $3 trillion.

Instead of standing on the side of struggling families and at-risk 
homeowners, Republicans in the Senate once again chose the side of Bush 
and Cheney, big banks, and big business. Republicans want us to 
continue to help those who contributed to the foreclosure debacle in 
the first place. Yesterday's prevention of us going forward to 
legislate was a victory for the people who are causing all the trouble 
to begin with. Who were the losers? Middle-class Americans, people 
trying to stay in their homes. The Republican alternative housing plan 
is almost laughable.

The Presiding Officer is a lawyer. She has been to court a few times 
to prosecute people, knows what is going on on the civil side. Their 
solution to the housing crisis is tort reform? How can they say that 
with a straight face?

That is not me. Read about it. It is in today's press. And more tax 
cuts. Neither has anything to do with the housing crisis. The 
Republican housing plan consists of tired programs from a dusty Bush-
Cheney playbook. Tort reform and Bush tax policy, neither have anything 
to do with housing. The housing plan Democrats proposed offers real 
solutions to the crisis that families and neighborhoods are facing all 
across the country.

Today I had another conversation with the chairman of the Banking 
Committee, one of the more senior Members of this body. I said: Senator 
Dodd, if your counterpart, Dick Shelby, wants to work out anything on 
this housing stimulus crisis, let's work it out. If there are 
amendments they want to offer, let's take a look at the amendments. My 
people want to offer amendments. They want to offer amendments. Let's 
offer some amendments. But tort reform? Cutting taxes?

The housing plan Democrats propose offers real solutions to the 
crisis families and neighborhoods are facing all across America--
Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, all over. Our plan helps families keep 
their homes by increasing preforeclosure counseling funds. Our plan 
expands refinancing opportunities for homeowners stuck in bad loans. 
Our program provides funds to help the highest need communities 
purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed properties. This is a proposal the 
President talked about in his State of the Union message and on which 
he is now blocking us. We tried to get this in our previous stimulus 
package, something the President talked about in his State of the Union 
Address. No. I guess from the speech back to the White House someone 
talked him out of it.

Our legislation helps families avoid foreclosure in the future by 
improving loan disclosures and transparency during the original loan 
and refinancing process. Jack Reed of Rhode Island sponsored that 
provision. Our legislation amends the Bankruptcy Code to allow home 
loans on primary residences to be modified, only in certain 
circumstances with very strict guidelines.

If the Republicans and the President don't like that provision, offer 
an amendment to take it out. I have said that publicly. If you don't 
like it, offer an amendment to take it out. Maybe you will get some 
Democrats to join with you. I think that is a pretty good bet. But, no.

So I say to my Republican colleagues who talk about their desire to 
help, talk is so cheap. The American public deserves better than tort 
reform and extending Bush economic policies to handle the foreclosure 
crisis now facing our country. Republicans have been able to hold on to 
the status quo and block us from moving America forward because of our 
razor-thin majority. For 10 months last year, it was 50 to 49 because 
Tim Johnson was sick. He is back. He is at 100 percent. So the majority 
now is 51 to 49. But that is still pretty narrow. The Republicans have 
been doing everything they can to maintain the status quo.

In addition to blocking our housing plan, we have had 71 other things 
that they have blocked. Tax incentives for alternative energy, 
something as simple as allowing Medicare to negotiate for lower priced 
drugs, they stopped us from doing that. A better economic stimulus 
bill, for example, to provide for the extension of unemployment 
benefits, they stopped us on that. And time after time, they have 
stopped us from moving forward on changing what is going on in Iraq. A 
razor-thin majority has allowed Republicans to block legislation with 
little effort because, remember, we need 60 to get anything done.

But I say to my Republican friends through the Chair to my friend, 
one of the more senior Members of the Senate, my friend from New 
Mexico, enjoy it while you can. The American people are seeing what is 
going on. They are seeing how you are maintaining the status quo. Enjoy 
it while you can because our majority, come November, is going to grow. 
So continue to block because it is not going to be there forever. It is 
not going to be there very long. Neighborhoods and families struggling 
mightily through the housing crisis can't wait until then.

I urge my Republican colleagues to join us and reconsider, support a 
housing plan that actually addresses housing--not tort reform, not 
lowering taxes--and eases the suffering of millions of American 
families.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.