# RECOGNIZING 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF UNITED STATES-JAPAN TREATY OF MUTUAL  COOPERATION AND SECURITY
## `8844f6bc63ec4e85b25c049a2c2539a2`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia â€” 23 June 2010`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my 
support for H. Res. 1464, which recognizes the 50th anniversary of the 
conclusion of the United States-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and 
Security, and expresses appreciation to the Japanese government and 
people for their contribution to peace, prosperity and security in the 
Asia-Pacific area of the world. I am proud of the legacy of this 
treaty, which has enabled the U.S. and Japan to establish and maintain 
an alliance that has been vital to the stability of the Asia-Pacific 
region and the economic strength of both parties. Fifty years after the 
signing of the treaty, the U.S. can count Japan among its foremost 
allies.

Looking back at the American-Japanese relationship over the last 
century, the distance our nations have come from the wartime hostility 
of the 1940s and the tensions of the 1950s is praiseworthy and 
inspirational. Today, Japan is the fourth-largest trading partner of 
the U.S., and the security and support the U.S. has provided to Japan 
have enabled greater Japanese participation in humanitarian, economic, 
and environmental issues at home and abroad.

As the Japanese government takes commendable action toward the 
denuclearization of North Korea, it is important that the U.S. continue 
to aid Japan and its neighbor states in their stand against the North 
Korean regime. Japan has also shown exemplary leadership in the Asia-
Pacific region, contributing generously to earthquake relief efforts in 
Haiti, economic programs in Afghanistan, and the U.S. Navy's Pacific 
Partnership.

As the world's two largest economic powerhouses and staunch military 
allies, Japan and the U.S. have profited immeasurably from the past 50 
years of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security. I look forward 
to the future of the partnership of our two nations, with high hopes 
for what we can accomplish together.

I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution.