---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8854d9b5f0854151ae5c0afb68f539f9`
`Mr. McNERNEY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. McNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, the young men and women who joined the 
Armed Forces after 9/11 out of a sense of duty and love for our country 
are just like my son Michael, who joined the military because of those 
terrible attacks. I am proud and heartened by their commitment to 
service and patriotism, just as I am proud of my own son's commitment, 
and I am concerned about their safety and well-being, just as I was 
about Michael's when he was in the service.

When I talk about supporting our troops, it is not rhetorical, it is 
personal. And it is with great sadness and steely resolve that I stand 
up here tonight on the issue of Iraq and the President's plan to 
escalate that conflict. I am saddened because the misguided and 
mismanaged conflict has become a tragic disaster and a genuine


threat to Mideast stability and global security. The escalation will 
cause more violence in the Middle East and will weaken our Nation.

I am resolved, because it is our duty as the Congress of this great 
Nation to check and balance the power of the President on any issue we 
believe harmful to this country. This administration insists on finding 
a military answer rather than changing this failed approach and 
pursuing the diplomatic and political solutions necessary to bring an 
end to the violence.

Unfortunately, the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq will 
not bring success there, nor make the United States more secure. In 
fact, the proposal means a further distraction from the mission in 
Afghanistan and the need for a tougher, smarter approach to the global 
war on terrorism. The President's proposal puts more U.S. lives at 
risk, further stretching the readiness of our ground forces and 
increasing the drain on our Treasury.

President Bush's plan is opposed by military experts, by Republicans 
and Democrats in both Chambers of Congress, and by the vast majority of 
our country. That is why I rise in strong support of the resolution 
under consideration in this body.

The resolution has two straightforward provisions: continuing support 
for those American soldiers who have served or are currently serving in 
Iraq; and disagreeing with the President's plan to escalate the 
conflict.

Supporting our troops is my top priority, not just because it is our 
duty and responsibility, but because it is personal to me and my 
family.

Recently the Washington Post reported that the Marine Corps and Army 
brigades that would be sent to Iraq under the President's plan are 
short of body armor, vehicles, and other important equipment. That 
shows just how desperate the President's misguided plan is. Military 
action should never be executed in desperation.

We must transfer the responsibility for establishing and maintaining 
law and order on the streets of Iraq to the Iraqis. Training those 
Iraqi units must be done outside of Iraq. This will mean more troops 
trained more quickly and will lessen the likelihood that Iraqi army and 
police turn to dangerous militias and death squads.

The members of our Armed Forces who have served in Iraq have done so, 
bravely and honorably. Unfortunately, the President's strategy in Iraq 
has not matched the commitment with which our troops have served in 
that country.

We must begin a responsible redeployment of our troops out of Iraq on 
a public timeline that makes sense, while pursuing political and 
diplomatic solutions. Yet the President has steadfastly refused to 
engage in the political and diplomatic efforts necessary to bring a 
resolution to the violence in Iraq.

Both Republicans and Democrats agree that we need a new direction in 
Iraq. I will continue to push for that new direction while always 
putting our troops first.

This resolution is an important first step. I stand with resolve in 
opposing President Bush's plan for an escalation in Iraq










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
