# None
## `8854424d41b685cd6ef9c9aba88bc3b7`
`Mr. McKEON — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, here we go again. The Speaker has decided once more to 
subvert regular order in the waning moments of this Congress and bring 
to the floor, without consideration by the House Armed Services 
Committee, a repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell. Now, anyone who was 
listening earlier to the Clerk read the bill that we're discussing, it 
is titled: To amend the Small Business Act with respect to the Small 
Business Innovation Research Program and the Small Business Technology 
Transfer Program. Now, if you're confused, what they have done is taken 
this bill that has passed, stripped out what is in it, and put in Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell.

So today, we will debate this standalone measure as a priority when 
we don't even have a National Defense Authorization Act for 2011. The 
other body cannot get its work done on that bill because the leadership 
there placed a higher priority on repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell to 
satisfy a Democratic liberal agenda than on passing a bill designed to 
meet the broad needs and requirements of our national defense, as well 
as those men and women serving in harm's way. Where are the Democrat 
priorities? Certainly not with overall national security.



So now we are here to consider the bill by Representative Murphy. It 
comes to the floor without the committee of jurisdiction being able to 
formally examine the issues raised by the recent DOD report and without 
the ability to question witnesses who would have to implement the 
repeal. Essentially, the high-handed actions of the Speaker forcing 
this bill to the floor deny the House an ability to assess the 
conflicting testimony and conclusions that have been rendered by the 
report.

So I rise in strong opposition to Mr. Murphy's bill. He and the House 
leadership behind him bring it to the floor in complete disregard for 
the testimony of three of the four service chiefs and their warning 
that implementing repeal now will have a negative impact on combat 
readiness.

Let me repeat that: three of the four service chiefs warn that 
implementing repeal now will have a negative impact on combat 
readiness. This is something we all ought to pay serious attention to 
when we are fighting two wars.

Beyond that, Mr. Murphy brings this bill to the floor in complete 
disregard for the concerns of those actually in the combat arms. As we 
now know: ''The percentage of the overall U.S. military that predicts 
negative or very negative effects on their units' ability to 'work 
together to get the job done' is 30 percent; the percentage for the 
Marine Corps is 43 percent, 48 percent within Army combat units, and 58 
percent within Marine combat units.''

If there is any doubt about where the service chiefs stand, here is 
what they told the other body.

General Casey, the Army Chief of Staff said, ''I think it's important 
that we're clear about the military risks. Implementation of the repeal 
of Don't Ask, Don't Tell would be a major cultural and policy change in 
the middle of a war. It would be implemented by a force and leaders 
that are already stretched by the cumulative effects of almost a decade 
of war and by a force in which substantial numbers of soldiers perceive 
that repeal will have a negative impact on unit effectiveness and 
morale, and that implementation will be difficult.

''I believe that the implementation of repeal in the near term will: 
one, add another level of stress to an already stretched force; two, be 
more difficult in our combat arms units; and, three, be more difficult 
for the Army than the report suggests.

''My recommendation would be that implementation begins when our 
singular focus is no longer on combat operations or preparing units for 
combat. I would not recommend going forward at this time given 
everything that the Army has on its plate.''

The commandant of the Marine Corps, General James Amos, said, ''If 
the law is changed, it has strong potential for disruption at the small 
unit level as it will no doubt divert leadership attention away from an 
almost singular focus on preparing units for combat.

''Based on what I know about the very tough fight in Afghanistan, the 
almost singular focus of our combat forces as they train up and deploy 
to the theater, the necessary tightly woven culture of those combat 
forces that we are asking so much of at this time and, finally, the 
direct feedback from the survey, my recommendation is that we should 
not implement repeal at this time.

''What I would want to have with regards to implementation would be a 
period of time where our marines are no longer focused primarily on 
combat. All I am asking is for the opportunity to implement repeal at a 
time and choosing when my marines are not singularly, tightly focused 
on what they're doing in a very deadly environment.''

Just yesterday, General Amos made clear just how strongly he feels 
about the threat that repeal poses to marines


in combat, warning ''that a change in current policy could pose a 
deadly distraction on the Afghanistan battlefield. I don't want to lose 
any marines to a distraction,'' Amos said in a roundtable discussion 
with journalists at the Pentagon.

Air Force Chief of Staff, General Norman Schwartz, said, ''I do not 
agree with the study assessment that the short-term risk to military 
effectiveness is low. Our officer and NCO leaders in Afghanistan in 
particular are carrying a heavy load. I remain concerned with the study 
assessment that the risk of repeal of military effectiveness in 
Afghanistan is low. That assessment is too optimistic. I suggested that 
perhaps full implementation could occur in 2012, but I do not think it 
prudent to seek full implementation in the near term. I think that is 
too risky.''

These are three of our four Chiefs of Staff.

I strongly believe that we ought to listen closely to the concerns of 
the service chiefs if for no other reason than they are closer to the 
sense and pulse of their services than are the Secretary of Defense or 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Moreover, I also believe that we 
should do nothing at this time to threaten the readiness of the 
soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines who are at the tip of the spear, 
fighting America's two wars. So I urge all Members to vote ''no'' on 
the Murphy bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.