# CIA INTERROGATIONS AND ARMY FIELD MANUAL
## `8886b060dd3512ff567ea96dee4bb485`
`Mr. BOND — 13 February 2008`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank my colleague with whom I have worked 
closely on this and many other matters.

One of the most important means that Congress has for conducting 
oversight of the intelligence community is through the annual 
authorization bill for the intelligence agency. Regrettably, we can't 
call it an annual Intelligence Authorization bill because Congress was 
unable to pass a bill in 2006 and 2007. Unfortunately, it appears we 
are on a path that may prevent us from getting an authorization bill 
signed for fiscal year 2008.

When I assumed the duties as vice chairman of the select committee at 
the beginning of this Congress, one of my top priorities--and that of 
the committee--was to get an Intelligence Authorization bill signed 
into law. During the first month of our tenure, we tried to resuscitate 
the fiscal year 2007 bill but could not get it out of the Senate. When 
the time came to fashion a bill for fiscal year 2008, we had better 
luck. But as Louis Pasteur once said, ''Chance favors the prepared 
mind.'' The committee worked hard to include in the chairman and vice 
chairman's mark only those provisions that had strong bipartisan 
support. Our rule was if either side objected to a provision, it would 
not be included. After our markup, we added a number of other good 
government provisions that had strong bipartisan support. 
Unfortunately, the committee also added a number of problematic 
provisions that caused our bill to stall on the floor.

I believed we had largely succeeded in our process of accomplishing 
the goals of a bipartisan bill. We worked closely with the 
administration to address some of their concerns. Some were easier to 
resolve than others. We all know there is one very problematic 
amendment relating to the Army Field Manual that was added during the 
conference between the House and the Senate. I will address that later. 
But now I wish to talk about some of the good things in this conference 
report.

First, I have often said--and I believe responsible observers now 
agree--that in creating the Director of National Intelligence, we gave 
him a tremendous amount of responsibility but darn little authority to 
get the job done. This conference report attempts to address that 
problem by giving the DNI clearer authority and greater flexibility to 
oversee the intelligence community. For example, section 410 gives the 
DNI statutory authority to use national intelligence program funds 
quickly to address deficiencies or needs relating to


intelligence information or access or sharing capabilities. The DNI may 
also use funds to pay for non-NIP--national intelligence program--
activities and to address critical gaps in those areas.

Section 409 expands the number of officials in the office of the DNI 
who can protect sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. This 
authority may now be delegated to the Principal Deputy Director of 
National Intelligence and the chief information officer of the 
intelligence community. These are all good things, all things the 
administration needs. We also included provisions that will ensure that 
the men and women of our intelligence community who must work 
undercover may do so at less risk of disclosure and, consequently, less 
risk to their personal safety.

Section 305 allows the DNI to delegate the authority to authorize 
travel on any common carrier for purposes of preserving cover of 
certain employees. Section 325 extends to the head of each intelligence 
community element the authority to exempt certain gifts from otherwise 
applicable reporting requirements. Without this exemption, detailed 
information about the receipt of gifts from foreign governments must be 
published in the Federal Register. Imagine if an undercover agent 
receives a gift from one of the targets he is working and has to report 
it in the Federal Register. That not only blows his cover, it probably 
ends his life. That is a great national security concern to operatives 
who have received such gifts as part of their covert actions.

One particular provision will reduce the personnel and resources used 
to respond to many congressional reporting requirements. In section 
330--again, in response to a request of the DNI--we eliminated a number 
of reporting requirements. It is a small step but an important one, as 
each reporting requirement diverts valuable resources from the intended 
purpose. I hope, within the 2009 Intelligence Authorization bill, we 
can make even greater progress in reducing unnecessary and duplicative 
reporting requirements that burden the intelligence community.

There are a number of provisions in this conference report that are 
essential for promoting good government. Too often we have seen 
programs or acquisitions of major systems balloon in cost and decrease 
in performance. That is unacceptable. We as taxpayers are spending 
substantial sums of money to ensure that the intelligence community has 
the tools it needs to keep us safe. If we don't demand accountability 
in how these tools are operated or created, then we are failing the 
taxpayers. We are failing the intelligence community. We are failing 
the mission I would hope we all agree is essential.

I sponsored several amendments that require the intelligence 
community to perform vulnerability assessments of major systems and to 
keep track of excessive cost growth of major systems. This latter 
provision is modeled on the Nunn-McCurdy provision which has guided 
Defense Department acquisitions for years. I believe these provisions 
will encourage earlier identification, the solving of problems relating 
to the acquisition of major systems. Too often such problems have not 
been identified until exorbitant sums of money have been spent. In some 
cases, several billions of dollars have been blown before the waste 
stopped. Unfortunately, too often, once they have sunk a bunch of money 
into a project, they refuse to cancel it, even though they are 
continuing to throw good money after bad.

Similarly, the intelligence community must get a handle on their 
personnel. I don't share the belief some have that the Office of the 
Director of National Intelligence is too large. In fact, I think we 
need to make sure our National Counterterrorism Center and National 
Counterproliferation Center have more resources, not less. They are the 
ultimate idea for creating a centralized intelligence community, 
bringing analysts and collectors together from all of the 16 different 
elements of the community.

I am concerned about the number of contractors used by the 
intelligence community to perform functions better left to Government 
employees. There are some jobs that demand the use of contractors--for 
example, certain technical jobs or short-term functions--but too often 
the quick fix is to hire contractors, not long-term support. So this 
conference report includes a provision calling for an annual personnel 
level assessment for the intelligence community. These assessments will 
ensure that before more people are brought in, there are adequate 
resources to support them and enough work to keep them busy.


Finally, we have included section 312, which requires the DNI to 
create a business enterprise architecture that defines all intelligence 
community business systems. The endgame is to encourage implementation 
of interoperable intelligence community business systems, getting 
everyone on the same page; in sum, making sure everybody is talking to 
each other and everybody who needs to know can listen in, a simple but 
not-yet-achieved objective. Given the substantial sums of money we are 
spending on these systems, we should be making certain the systems are 
efficiently and effectively coordinated; again, a good government 
provision.

There were a number of adjustments we had to make. We responded to 
concerns of the administration, and I worked particularly with my 
Democratic colleagues--and I thank them for their support--to make 
adjustments that would allow the bill to clear the Senate for the first 
time in 2 years. Let me highlight some of those adjustments because it 
is important to remember how much effort it took to return the bill to 
a bipartisan state.

No. 1, we struck a section that would have required the President to 
provide Congress with any President's daily brief involving Iraq during 
a certain time period. The PDBs have not been disclosed. As a matter of 
fact, they only came to light when a former official in the previous 
administration put some PDBs in his BVDs and stuck them out at the 
archives for reasons no one has adequately explained.

We struck two sections that contained controversial notification and 
funding restrictions. We struck a provision requiring declassification 
of the budgetary top line of the national intelligence program because 
it had already passed Congress in S. 4, the so-called 9/11 bill. We 
struck a section that required the CIA Director to make available to 
the public a declassified version of a CIA inspector general report on 
CIA accountability related to the terrorist attacks. That was also 
required by S. 4. It was about time the CIA internal IG report be made 
available. Everybody else had to air their failings, and it was time 
the CIA did so as well.

We struck a section that would have allowed the public interest 
declassification board to conduct declassification reviews at the 
request of Congress, regardless of whether the review is requested by 
the President. We also struck a provision that would have required a 
national intelligence estimate on global climate change, largely 
because the DNI, which is not equipped to conduct an NIE on climate 
change, had outsourced the responsibility for putting together an 
assessment, and there was no need to mandate this in law.

Finally, we made modifications to at least seven other provisions to 
address concerns raised by the administration and by our Senate 
colleagues. The end result was, we get a fiscal year 2008 Intelligence 
Authorization bill passed out of the Senate by unanimous consent in 
early October 2007. I thank my colleagues for allowing us to do that. 
It was long overdue, and it was a badly needed action. Then, however, 
we went to conference.

I urged my conferees to avoid inclusion of controversial provisions. 
We kept our negotiations to the base text of both bills. Given that we 
hadn't had an intel bill during the past 2 years, there were a lot 
provisions to negotiate. I guess you could say there was a lot of pent-
up oversight. After a lot of hard work, we were able to merge the two 
bills in a manner we believed would receive strong bipartisan support. 
Unfortunately, despite my warnings, history again repeated itself. 
During the conference markup, the Senate adopted, by a one-vote margin, 
a controversial provision that limits the intelligence community to 
using only those interrogation techniques authorized by the U.S. Army 
Field Manual on human intelligence collector operations. As I will 
discuss later, to adopt that provision and put it into law


would, according to the Director of the CIA, shut down the most 
valuable intelligence collection program the CIA has, a program that 
has protected our homeland and our troops abroad from terrorist 
attacks. Because it was adopted, I couldn't sign the conference report 
that I and my colleagues worked so hard to enact.

Another consequence of that vote was it caused the conference report 
to languish in the Senate for more than 2 months now. Shortly after the 
passage of the conference report, the administration released a 
statement of administration policy and--certainly not to my surprise--
at the top of their list of objectionable provisions was the limitation 
on interrogation techniques provisions. We have heard some 
misstatements on this floor about interrogation and the techniques 
used. Frankly, I share some of the same concerns raised by the 
administration with respect to this provision. Statements made about 
the interrogation program of the CIA are not accurate. They have been 
blown totally out of context, and they deserve a response. This 
section, if it were enacted in law--and it will not be--would prevent 
the intelligence community from conducting the interrogation of senior 
al-Qaida terrorists to obtain intelligence needed to protect the 
country from attack.

During its consideration of the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, 
Congress wisely decided that while the Army Field Manual was a good 
standard for military interrogators who number in the tens of 
thousands, with limited supervision and limited training, it was not 
the standard that should be used by the CIA.

CIA interrogators are highly trained, operate under tremendous 
oversight and rules and supervision in interrogating those top hardened 
terrorist leaders, who have information on how the system operates and 
who the major players are. They do not outsource this job to 
contractors such as Blackwater or others. It is my understanding if 
they use contractors, it is former interrogators who are brought back 
in because of their experience. They are subject to the supervision of 
the CIA, with multiple layers of supervision and oversight by video 
cameras. It is highly irresponsible to say the CIA has outsourced 
torture. We do not do torture.

Now, a lot of people say we have lost a lot because of our inhumane 
treatment. They are referring to Abu Ghraib. We all agree that what was 
done at Abu Ghraib was inhuman and degrading. But it was not done by 
anybody in the intelligence field or for intelligence purposes. It was 
done by renegade troops who have been prosecuted, punished, and 
imprisoned for the violations of basic decency. Yes, that has hurt us 
worldwide, but that is not the standard which is allowable, 
permissible, or acceptable by any of our interrogators.

Mention has been made of eight techniques that are banned in the Army 
Field Manual. I agree, those techniques that are banned in the Army 
Field Manual should be banned. Those are not techniques that should be 
used. The Army Field Manual was meant for the Army in limiting the 
number of techniques that can be used. It applies to them only for the 
Army, for the Army's use. There are quite a number of techniques that 
fall within the same category that are not torture, inhuman, degrading, 
or cruel. If they are not included in the Army Field Manual, then they 
would not be permitted to be used, if this were made law, by the CIA, 
the FBI, or anybody else.

But to apply the Army Field Manual--it says you can only use these 
interrogation techniques if you get authorization from ''the first 0-6 
in the interrogator's chain-of-command''--well, that would mean the CIA 
would have to go over to the Army and say: Do you have an 0-6 who can 
come over and look over the shoulders of our interrogators? Well, you 
do not have to worry about that because the CIA program would be 
ending.

It allows the Army to set the interrogation standards for the entire 
intelligence community. It is important that my colleagues recognize 
this interrogation provision is not an antitorture provision. The 
previous speakers have said we need to pass this law to outlaw torture. 
It is outlawed. The law prohibits the United States from using torture. 
This provision prevents the intelligence community from engaging in 
other lawful interrogation techniques that fall outside the scope of 
the Army Field Manual.

Why is that important? Because everything in the Army Field Manual 
has been published in the al-Qaida manuals. The top officials of al-
Qaida know those techniques better than the interrogators know them. 
They know how to resist them, and they are ineffective.

Now, some on the other side of the aisle would like to frame this 
provision as being about waterboarding. It is not.

The Attorney General has publicly stated that the CIA no longer uses 
waterboarding. The technique is not one of the approved techniques. The 
Director of the CIA has publicly stated that there were only three 
individuals waterboarded and the technique has not been used since 
2003. It was used in the crisis right after 2001, when tremendous 
amounts of valuable information were gained from the three individuals 
waterboarded.

What we are talking about here is not waterboarding. Some of my 
colleagues have said that the EITs are not effective--enhanced 
interrogation techniques. Well, that is absolutely not true. That is 
precisely the opposite of what the CIA Director has told us in our 
classified hearings and explained it.

Now, the CIA Director has said they have held less than 100 people in 
their custody, and less than one-third of those have been submitted to 
enhanced interrogation techniques.

These are the hardened terrorists who have the most information that 
is needed to protect our troops, our allies abroad, and those of us 
here at home.

Those techniques--which are different from but no harsher than the 
techniques that are in the Army Field Manual--are unknown to the 
detainees. Those detainees on whom the EITs--not including 
waterboarding--have been used have produced the most productive 
information and intelligence. Literally thousands upon thousands of the 
most important intelligent collections have come from the cooperating 
detainees who did not know what was going to happen to them, even 
though no torture, cruel, inhuman, or degrading techniques were used on 
them.

Many of the techniques that are used--and I have reviewed them--are 
far less coercive or strenuous than what we apply to our military 
volunteers: young men and women of America who join the Marines, the 
SEALs, the Special Operations Forces, or pilots who go through 
the survival, evasion, resistance, and escape training, or the SERE 
training. We do not even use the most strenuous of those techniques on 
our detainees.


Those who say we do not want our enemies to use any more harsh 
techniques than we use on them--well, good luck. You have seen Abu 
Musab al-Zarqawi beheading people. Those are not techniques that 
anybody would suggest. A beheading probably eliminates a source of 
further information.

But the problem is, the techniques that are used would be banned. The 
techniques--that are not cruel, that are not inhuman, that are used on 
our own voluntary military enlistees--are prohibited because they are 
not included in the Army Field Manual. One good reason they are not is 
because we do not want to publicize them or they would no longer be 
effective in use against those high-value detainees who will not 
cooperate otherwise. I cannot support a bill that contains that 
provision.

So here we are on the floor--the farthest we have gotten in 3 years. 
It looks as though history is going to repeat itself. No wonder 
congressional ratings are at an all-time low. I believe our inability 
to work in a bipartisan fashion on a consistent basis may be harming 
us. Yesterday's success with the FISA Amendments Act is a model example 
of what can be accomplished when we work together. For the most part, 
the committee's work on the Intel bill followed that model, although we 
were unable to protect the bipartisan compromise in the end.

As the vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I have 
invested a very significant amount of time and effort to provide 
meaningful


oversight of the intelligence community through this bill. I know my 
distinguished chairman, Senator Rockefeller, has made those same 
efforts and shares the goal.

However, I have often said that no bill is better than a bad bill. 
Right now, with this provision in it, this is a bad bill because what 
it would do, according to the Director of National Intelligence, is to 
shut down the most effective interrogation program the CIA has to use 
to induce cooperation from those leaders of al-Qaida and other 
terrorist organizations who know about the plots to attack the United 
States and to attack our allies.

Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support cloture so we can move 
forward on the process on this legislation, but the President has 
stated he will veto the bill and, regrettably, I must say that despite 
all the good things in the bill, he is correct. We cannot afford the 
risk to this country, to our personal safety, to our desire to avoid 
another 9/11, by saying we can no longer allow the CIA to use the 
acceptable techniques that are not published but that are very 
effective in assuring cooperation of high-value detainees whom we in 
this country capture through the CIA. Regrettably, while I urge my 
colleagues to support cloture, I cannot urge them to pass this measure.

I yield the floor.