---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `888e3ea5cd6b47e5c5359aa3fa3f6aa0`
`Mr. OBERSTAR — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. OBERSTAR. Madam Speaker, last month the House of Representatives 
voted on important legislation including VA health care bills, lobbying 
reform legislation, and amendments to the fiscal year 2007 supplemental 
appropriations bill.

During the consideration of these bills, I was in Minnesota to attend 
the funeral Mass for my uncle, Frank Oberstar.

Had I been present, I would have voted ''nay'' on the motion to 
recommit to H.R. 1100 (rollcall vote 408); I would have voted ''aye'' 
on H.R. 1100 (rollcall vote 409); I would have voted ''aye'' on H.R. 
67, ''Veterans Outreach Improvement Act'' (rollcall vote 410); I would 
have voted ''aye'' on H.R. 612, ''Returning Servicemember VA Healthcare 
Insurance Act'' (rollcall vote 411); I would have voted ''aye'' on H.R. 
1470, ''Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act'' (rollcall 
vote 412); I would have voted ''aye'' on H.R. 2199 ''Traumatic Brain 
Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support Act'' (rollcall vote 
413); I would have voted ''aye'' on H.R. 2239, ''Early Access to 
Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits Act'' (rollcall vote 
414).

I would have voted ''aye'' to order the previous question on H. Res. 
427 (rollcall vote 415); I would have voted ''aye'' to approve H. Res. 
427 (rollcall vote 416). I would have voted ''aye'' to order the 
previous question on H. Res. 438 (rollcall vote 417), and I would have 
voted ''aye'' on H. Res. 438 (rollcall vote 418).

I would have voted ''nay'' on the Smith motion to recommit with 
instructions on H.R. 2317 (rollcall vote 419); I would have voted 
''aye'' on passage on H.R. 2317 (rollcall vote 420); I would have voted 
''aye'' on the Conyers amendment to H.R. 2316 (rollcall vote 421); I 
would have voted ''aye'' on the Chabot motion to recommit with 
instructions on H.R. 2318 (rollcall vote 422); I would have voted 
''aye'' on passage on H.R. 2316 (rollcall vote 423).

Because of my strong support for important and necessary funding for 
VA health care; necessary assistance for the Gulf region and U.S. 
farmers, and my support for an increase in the minimum wage, I would 
have voted ''aye'' on House Amendment 1 to H.R. 2206, the fiscal year 
2007 supplemental appropriations bill (rollcall vote 424. Because House 
Amendment 2 to H.R. 2206 failed to provide reasonable accountability 
provisions to measure the Administration's Iraq policy, I would have 
voted ''nay'' on rollcall 425.
