---
---

# None
## `88b16f4771bb796623e73476053b76d7`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. The coalition of the willing is no more, 
Mr. Meek. What is left are the military family, and their friends and 
families have been asked to shoulder almost the entire burden of this 
war.

When we talk about where we are going to spend the taxpayer dollars, 
you have to talk about what we are getting for that investment.

You gave the statistics on the casualties since the beginning of the 
war, but it is even more terrifying when you talk about what has 
happened simply since the surge has begun: 593 soldiers have died since 
January 10; 3,500 have been wounded; 1,600 wounded so badly they cannot 
return to battle. We are talking about 13,000 Iraqi civilians and 
members of the military police who have been killed or wounded since 
the surge took place.

So you have to ask what we are getting for this investment. It has 
gone from $8 billion a month to $10 billion a month since the surge has 
gone into effect. What we have gotten is an Iraqi political institution 
or Iraqi political infrastructure which is even less willing to take 
responsibility for its own actions, even less able to take control of 
their own country.

It was reported in the Associated Press of the President's report on 
progress in Iraq that the Iraqi government has not ''met any of its 
targets for political, economic and other reform.'' Has not met any of 
the targets we have given them for economic, political reform.

Parliament is going home for the summer. There is a parliament where 
the biggest Sunni group has pulled out. You have an inability for the 
Iraqis to deal with their own shop. As someone said, right now the 
Iraqis are paying wholesale for their politics because we are 
subsidizing every decision that is being made there. It is time they 
start paying retail for their political decisions, and that is only 
going to happen when they have a sense of when the crutch is going to 
be taken away from them.

So, Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan, I think to myself when we talk about how 
we are going to spend money, whether we are going to spend $120 billion 
a year in Iraq or whether we are going to spend $40 or $50 billion on 
children's health care insurance, and I think, as Mr. Ryan said, that 
$120 billion investment is getting more and more Americans killed every 
day and is making this country less safe and less safe every day, and 
is making it less and less likely that the Iraqis will ever be able to 
take control of their country.



That's a terrible investment. That's a bad investment. When I think 
about $50 billion in children's health care, by doing the right thing, 
the moral thing for kids, and at the same time, probably making our 
health care system more affordable and less costly in the end, because 
we're hooking kids up with preventative health care, that's a great 
investment. That's a worthwhile investment.