---
---

# IRAN
## `88b762d92829792cc373865476045dbb`
`Ms. WATERS — 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. WATERS. Thank you very much to both Sheila Jackson-Lee and 
Barbara Lee for, again, their constant and consistent struggle working 
in this House against the war.

Mr. Speaker, and Members, press reports have given us some 
indications of the thrust of current White House directed planning. The 
strike would be against Iranian terrorist facilities, the Revolutionary 
Guard units and/or nuclear production facilities, a limited air strike 
operation with the objective of changing Iranian behavior. Those who 
argue for the strike are saying there will be very few U.S. casualties 
and very few Iranian civilian casualties. Nevertheless, we all know 
that U.S. strikes against Iran would be disastrous.

Middle East experts generally agree that Iran would respond to a U.S. 
strike by attacking U.S. and Israeli interests throughout the region 
and possibly globally. These strikes would lead to a greater Middle 
East war, including greater loss of life, financial burden, over 
stretch of our military and worse.

We're sounding the alarm this evening and we are sending a message to 
the President of the United States of America and to the Vice 
President, particularly now to the Vice President, who, when he was 
reminded by an ABC News reporter that the recent polls show that two-
thirds of Americans say the fight in Iraq is not worth it, his 
response, ''and so?''

Well, Mr. Vice President, our ''and so'' to you tonight is, and so 
the American people do not want us to continue this war in Iraq and to 
air strike in Iran. We're sounding the alarm. And I will yield time to 
the gentleman who just left the Speaker's seat to complete this 
colloquy that we've had here this evening.