---
---

# IRAQ
## `88ba840eb312ea8fbd54c6ae6e34acf0`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will say to my good friend from Missouri 
that was a well-done presentation. I know how important this topic is 
to him because of his family's commitment to our military, and he, like 
many other people in this country, definitely has a vested interest in 
the outcome in Iraq in terms of family members.

The point I would like to make this morning, to build on this theme, 
is that I passionately believe the outcome in Iraq will not be a 
neutral event in terms of the overall war on terror, that success in 
Iraq will not be confined to Iraq in terms of winning the war on 
terror, and a defeat in Iraq certainly will not be confined to Iraq. It 
will spill over and empower extremists in the region and throughout the 
world.

The reason I say that is this: Who is the enemy in Iraq? Is this 
really a civil war? Certainly there are aspects of sectarian violence 
and people trying to seize political power through militia groups and 
the use of violence, trying to destroy this democracy and win the day 
to control Iraq. There are Shia and Sunni groups trying to do that. But 
the vast majority of Iraqis want to go a different way. They want to 
live together and try to find some way to reconcile their past 
differences and not resort to the use of the gun. I do believe there is 
some hope this will happen--and not just blind hope but realistic 
progress in Iraq that can be seen if you are willing to look.

The challenges are real. The Iraqi central government has failed on 
many fronts to reconcile the country politically. But, as my colleagues 
have indicated, the surge, the additional combat power that started in 
February and has been in place now for about 3 or 4 weeks, has made a 
dramatic difference in certain parts of Iraq.

Mr. O'Hanlon and Mr. Pollack's article has been often mentioned by 
Republicans, and they have been critics of the war, but I would just 
like to say to them, if they happen to be listening: I appreciate your 
willingness to come back and report progress, and I also understand 
what you are telling us in your article, that we are a long way from 
having it right in Iraq and there are many challenges left. The 
political front has been stagnant, but the military front has moved 
forward in a very substantial way.

The surge, for me, is not so much that we have moved al-Qaida out of 
Anbar but that the people in Anbar, given a choice, have rejected al-
Qaida. The ability to make that choice was provided by the additional 
combat power coming from the surge. An offensive strategy is now in 
place, and it has replaced a defensive strategy. The old strategy of 
training the Iraqi police and military and hiding behind walls simply 
wasn't working. The new strategy of going out in the communities and 
living with the Iraqi police and army is paying dividends.

Anbar truly has changed in a phenomenal way, as Senator Bond said. 
You can go to Ramadi now--someplace you couldn't go a few months ago. 
Again, the Iraqi Sunni residents of Anbar tasted al Qaida's lifestyle, 
had an experience in terms of what al-Qaida would impose upon their 
families, and said: No, thank you. And along comes American forces to 
help them reinforce that choice.

The biggest news in Anbar is that 12,000 people joined the local 
police force in 2007, where there were only 1,000 in 2006. So that 
means when we do leave--and it is all of our goal to withdraw from 
Iraq--the goal should be to withdraw with honor and security, and honor 
means you leave the country without those who helped you fight al-Qaida 
and other extremists getting slaughtered. I don't think we could leave 
that country with much honor if we left in a way that allowed those who 
bravely stepped out and embraced moderation to be killed by the 
extremists. From a security perspective, it is important that we leave 
Iraq in a stable situation and that the problems there do not spill 
over to the other parts of the region and the world at large.

Now, whom are we fighting? There are sectarian conflicts. There are 
power struggles to regain control of Iraq. That is part of the enemy. 
Al-Qaida is part of the enemy. And al-Qaida is really not limited in 
controlling Iraq. It is not their goal to take over central Baghdad and 
run Iraq; their goal, in my opinion, is to come into Iraq and make sure 
this attempt at moderation and democracy fails.

Is there a connection between al-Qaida in Iraq and bin Laden and his 
organization? About a week ago, President Bush came to Charleston, SC, 
and spoke at Charleston's Air Force Base. He made a very logical, 
reasoned case that there is a deep connection between al-Qaida in Iraq 
and the bin Laden infrastructure. To those who say that al-Qaida in 
Iraq is really a separate organization with a separate agenda, I think 
you are not understanding who the major players are and what their 
agenda includes.

No. 1, their agenda is to defeat us in Iraq and drive America out and 
be able to claim to the rest of the world that they beat us. If you 
don't believe me, ask Bin Laden or look at what bin Laden says. Bin 
Laden claimed, ''The Third World war is raging in Iraq.'' Osama Bin 
Laden says, ''The war is for you or for us to win. If we win it, it 
means your defeat and your disgrace forever.''

Well, I think he understands the consequences of a victory by al-
Qaida. He also understands the consequences of a defeat by America. The 
question I have is, Do we understand that? Do we understand what would 
happen to this country and all forces of moderation in the Mideast and 
throughout the world if it were perceived that al-Qaida in Iraq was 
able to drive the United States out of that country and leave it to the 
warlords of terrorism?

Who is al-Qaida in Iraq? The founder of al-Qaida in Iraq was not an 
Iraqi, it was a Jordanian--al-Zarqawi. He was a Jordanian terrorist. 
Before 9/11, he ran a terrorist camp in Afghanistan. After joining 
Osama bin Laden, he left Afghanistan, after the fall of the Taliban, 
and went to Iraq. Zarqawi and his terrorist group formally joined bin 
Laden, pledging allegiance to Osama bin Laden, and promised to follow 
his orders in jihad. Soon after, bin Laden publicly declared that 
Zarqawi was the prince of al-Qaida in Iraq and instructed terrorists in 
Iraq to listen to him and obey him. Now, to me, that is a pretty 
serious connection.

Beyond Zarqawi, who was from Jordan, bin Laden sent an Egyptian, who 
was a member of al-Qaida's international infrastructure, to provide 
support to Zarqawi and leadership. And the President gave a laundry 
list of international terrorists tied to bin Laden who migrated to Iraq 
to build up al-Qaida in Iraq. They have the same agenda. The agenda is 
to defeat moderation where you find it, to try to control as much of 
the Mideast as possible. And their agenda doesn't just include Iraq. 
The Gulf States are next and after that Israel, and always us.



Now, that is not what I am saying; that is what they say. So I think 
the President made a very persuasive case that the infrastructure of 
al-Qaida in Iraq is very much tied to the bin Laden organization. If 
you don't believe that, come down and let's have a debate about it.

Who else is our enemy in Iraq? Iran. This body passed unanimously a 
resolution authored by Senator Lieberman during the Defense 
authorization debate, and part of that resolution was a laundry list of 
activity by Iran, particularly the Quds Force, part of the 
Revolutionary Guard, in terms of trying to kill Americans in Iraq and 
destabilize the efforts of building a democracy in Iraq. On February 
11, 2007, the U.S. military held a briefing in Baghdad at which its 
representatives stated that at least 170 members of the U.S. Armed 
Forces have been killed and at least 620 wounded by weapons tied to 
Iran.

This resolution which we passed was a damning indictment of Iran's 
involvement in Iraq about training, providing funds, providing 
weaponry, and bringing Hezbollah agents from Lebanon into Iraq to try 
to assist extremist groups whose goal it is to kill Americans and to 
destabilize this effort of democracy.

Now, why does al-Qaida come to Iraq? I said before that their biggest 
nightmare is a moderate form of government where Sunnis and Shias and 
Kurds and all different groups could live together, accepting their 
differences, where a woman could have a say about her children by being 
able to run for office and vote and have a strong voice in society. 
That is their worst nightmare.

Whether we should have gone to Iraq or not is a historical debate. We 
have made plenty of mistakes after the fall of Baghdad. But the biggest 
mistake would be not to recognize that Iraq is part of a global 
struggle. There are sectarian conflicts in Iraq; I acknowledge that. 
There has been a major failure of political reconciliation; I 
acknowledge that. The old strategy was not working; I acknowledged that 
2 or 3 years ago. The new strategy is providing dividends in terms of 
defeating al-Qaida in Iraq. The Iraqi people in the Sunni areas have 
turned against al-Qaida in Iraq. That is good news. Political 
reconciliation is occurring at the local provincial level. I hope it 
works its way up.

Another aspect of Iraq, to me, which is undeniable--and I understand 
the challenges, and I think I see the successes for what they are--is 
that the Iranian Government's involvement in Iraq is major. It is 
substantial. It is designed to break our will. Their efforts include 
killing our troops, and they are there to make sure this experiment in 
democracy fails because Iran's worst nightmare is to have a functioning 
democracy on their border.

So this is part of a global struggle, and the outcome will create 
momentum one way or the other. I hope the outcome will be a success for 
moderation and a defeat of extremism.

I yield the floor.
