---
---

# JUDICIAL CONFIRMATION PROCESS
## `88c4c48ead369c00a5d4ae9957e3dd8f`
`Mr. SPECTER — 3 March 2008`

---


Mr. SPECTER. I thank the Chair. The current presidential race 
provides the Senate with a unique opportunity to come to grips with the 
confirmation process of Federal judges and to make some very 
fundamental commitments and very fundamental changes to our process.

We are in the midst of a Presidential campaign, and I think it is 
fair to say the outcome is uncertain. It has fluctuated tremendously on 
both nomination pictures. But, this is a time, with the outcome 
uncertain, when neither side of the aisle would know who will gain an 
advantage; we would not know whose ox was being gored. It is a time, 
starting in the next Congress--if we can't act now, and my fundamental 
plea is that we act at the present time--we ought not to wait 11 
months, until January 20, 2009. This is a unique time to tackle the 
problem for the future.

On April 1, 2004, I offered S. Res. 327, and I now offer the 
substance of that resolution again. The whereas clauses of the 
resolution recited a distressing array of facts similar to what we have 
at the present time, with filibusters by the Democrats and with the 
retaliatory prospect of changing the filibuster rule. The resolution 
called for establishing a timetable for hearings of nominees for 
district courts and courts of appeal and the Supreme Court to occur 
within 30 days after the names of such nominees have been submitted to 
the Senate by the President and then to establish a timetable for 
action by the full committee within 30 days after the hearings and for 
reporting out nominees to the full Senate. And then to have a timetable 
for the full Senate to act within 90 days, with a provision for 
reasonable extension of times, upon agreement of the chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee and the ranking member or the majority leader and 
the minority leader to extend the time.

This resolution would establish procedures which would guarantee that 
the confirmation of judges would go back to the good old days, where 
you took a look at the person's academic credentials, you took a look 
at the person's professional background, you interviewed the 
individual, you had an FBI background check, and the person didn't have 
to pass some ideological purity test. Or, the individual did not have 
to pass a test such as what Judge Southwick was subjected to on this 
floor for months and months and months.

It was particularly egregious in the case of Judge Southwick. Judge 
Southwick was a distinguished Mississippi State appellate court judge. 
He was nominated for the Fifth Circuit, and he had an extraordinary 
record, more than 10 years on the State court bench--more than 70 
opinions. Objections were raised to two lines in two concurring 
opinions. Judge Southwick left the bench and went to Iraq and served 
for months in the Judge Advocate General's Corps. He was interviewed by 
many people of the Senate, and his confirmation hung on a thread until 
a courageous Senator from the other side of the aisle crossed party 
lines and led the way to get a few votes from the Democrats.

You don't have to be a profile in courage to support a judge such as 
Judge Southwick, and you don't have to be a profile in courage to 
support a nominee such as Rod Rosenstein or Peter Keisler or Robert 
Conrad or the others who were enumerated in my letter--some 10 circuit 
court judges and 18 district court judges.

I wish to quote a very respectable authority in my concluding 
comment. A man who has served in the Senate since he was elected from 
Vermont in 1974, twice chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and this is 
what the distinguished Senator from Vermont, Senator Leahy, had to say 
on October 5, 2000.




 This year, the Judiciary Committee reported only three 


 nominees to the Court of Appeals all year.


This is the last year of President Clinton's administration.




 We denied a committee vote to two outstanding nominees who 


 succeeded in getting hearings. I hope we can look again and 


 ask ourselves objectively, without any partisanship: Can we 


 not do better on judges?


This is Senator Leahy. Going on.




 I quoted Governor George Bush--


He was in the campaign process at that time in the 2000 election. 
Senator Leahy says:




 I quoted Governor George Bush on the floor a couple of days 


 ago. I said I agreed with him. On nominations he said we 


 should vote them up or down within 60 days. If you don't want 


 the person, vote against them. The Republican Party should 


 have no fear of that. They have the majority in this body. 


 They could vote against them if they want, but have the vote. 


 Either vote for them or vote against them. Don't leave people 


 such as Helene White and Bonnie Campbell, people such as 


 this, just hanging forever without even getting a rollcall 


 vote. That is wrong. It is not a responsible way and 


 besmirches the Senate, this body, that I love so much.


Senator Leahy, you were right on October 5, 2000, and you are right 
on March 3, 2008.

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1

























 Washington, DC,

























February 29, 2008.


 Hon. Patrick J. Leahy,


 Chairman, Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Dirksen Senate 




 Office Building, Washington, DC.



 Dear Patrick: I write in the hope that you and I can work 


 out an accommodation on the confirmation of federal judges 


 without our respective caucuses coming to an impasse. Without 


 going into an elaborate history on the confirmation of 


 federal judges, the essence of the situation is that 15 


 circuit judges and 57 district court judges were confirmed in 


 the last two years of President Clinton's Administration, 


 compared to 6 circuit court and 34 district court judges for 


 President Bush in 2007-2008. That means there must be 


 confirmations or at least up-or-down votes on 9 additional 


 circuit and 23 district court judges to equal President 


 Clinton's record.



 President Bush is even farther behind President Clinton in 


 total confirmations when contrasting their entire terms, 


 since President Clinton confirmed 65 circuit court and 305 


 district court judges while President Bush has so far 


 confirmed only 57 circuit and 237 district court judges. In 


 addition, thus far in the 110th Congress, only 5 of President 


 Bush's circuit court nominees have been granted hearings. By 


 this date in President Clinton's final two years in office, 


 the Committee had held hearings for 10 circuit court 


 nominees. Until the hearing for Ms. Catharina Haynes on 


 February 21, 2008, we had not had a circuit court hearing 


 since September 25, 2007, some 5 months ago.



 While there have been many hotly contested issues in the 


 Senate in recent years, the most bitter controversies have 


 involved federal judicial nominations. In 2005, the battle 


 over judges reached a high point, or low point, with the 


 Republican caucus threatening to employ the ''nuclear 


 option'' to combat the Democrats' filibusters. In my 


 judgment, in the past twenty years, there has been a great 


 deal of blame split evenly between both sides.



 As the record shows, I dissented from the Republican 


 caucus's position by casting key votes in favor of several 


 circuit court nominees, including controversial nominees such 


 as Judge Marsha Berzon, who was confirmed to the Ninth 


 Circuit Court of Appeals on March 9, 2000, Judge Timothy Dyk, 


 who was confirmed to the Federal Circuit on May 24, 2000, 


 Judge Richard Paez, who was confirmed to the Ninth Circuit on 


 March 9, 2000, and Judge H. Lee Sarokin, who was confirmed to 


 the Third Circuit on October 4, 1994. Similarly, I supported 


 President Clinton's nomination of Judge Gerard Lynch, who was 


 confirmed to the District Court for the Southern District of 


 New York by a vote of 63-36 on May 24, 2000. I also supported 


 other controversial non-judicial confirmations such as Lani 


 Guinier to be Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights 


 Division of the justice Department and the subsequent 


 nomination of Bill Lann Lee for the same position.



 Now I believe that my caucus is correct in insisting on up-


 or-down votes on nominees with extraordinary records, 


 including several who are nominated to fill seats deemed 


 judicial emergencies. A listing of these nominees with their 


 superb qualifications proves the point:














 Circuit Court Nominees




 Nominee: Peter D. Keisler, of MD, to the D.C. Circuit: 


 Pending over 600 days.



 Nominated: June 29, 2006 Hearing August 1, 2006; 


 Renominated January 8, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified.



 Education: B.A., magna cum laude, Yale University, 1981; 


 J.D., Yale Law School, 1985; Notes/Comments Editor, Yale Law 


 Journal.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge Robert H. Bork, D.C. 


 Circuit Court of Appeals; Law Clerk, Justice Anthony M. 


 Kennedy, U.S. Supreme Court; Assistant Attorney General, 


 Civil Division, Department of Justice; Acting Attorney 


 General, United States Department of Justice (DOJ).



 Editorials in the Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post 


 have called for confirmation of Mr. Keisler calling him a 


 ''moderate conservative'' and ''highly qualified nominee'' 


 who ''certainly warrants confirmation.




 Nominee: Robert Conrad, of NC, to the 4th Circuit (Judicial 


 Emergency); Pending over 220 days.





 Nominated: July 17, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified.



 Education: B.A., magna cum laude, Clemson University, 1980; 


 J.D., University of Virginia. 1983.



 Career Highlights: U.S. Attorney, Western District of N.C.; 


 District Judge, District Court for the Western District of 


 N.C.; Chief Judge, Western District of N.C.



 An editorial in The Charlotte Observer stated that it is 


 ''outrageous'' that the Judiciary Committee has not held a 


 hearing for Judge Conrad, calling him a ''well-qualified 


 judge who only three years ago received unanimous Senate 


 confirmation'' and who ''was appointed by Democratic Attorney 


 General Janet Reno to head the Justice Department's Campaign 


 Finance Task Force.''




 Nominee: Steve A. Matthews, of SC, to the 4th Circuit; 


 Pending over 170 days.



 Nominated: September 6, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Qualified, Minority Not 


 Qualified.



 Education: B.A., University of South Carolina, 1977; J.D., 


 Yale Law School, 1980.



 Career Highlights: Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil 


 Division, DOJ; Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of 


 Legal Policy. DOJ; Managing Director, Haynsworth Sinkler 


 Boyd, P.A.



 Nominee: Catharina Haynes, of TX, to the 5th Circuit 


 (Judicial Emergency); Pending over 220 days. Nominated: July 


 17, 2007; Hearing February 21, 2008. ABA Rating: Unanimous 


 Well Qualified. Education: B.S., with highest honors, first 


 in her class, Florida Institute of Technology, 1983; J.D., 


 with distinction, order of the coif, Emory University School 


 of Law. 1986.



 Career Highlights: Partner, Baker Botts, LLP; Judge, State 


 of Texas, Dallas County, 191st District Court, Dallas, TX; 


 Partner, Baker Botts, LLP.




 Nominee: Rod Rosenstein, of MD, to the 4th Circuit 


 (Judicial Emergency); Pending over 100 days. Nominated: 


 November 15, 2007. ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified. 


 Education: B.S., summa cum laude, University of Pennsylvania, 


 1986; J.D., cum laude, Harvard Law School, 1989.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge Douglas Ginsburg, D.C. 


 Circuit; Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General, 


 (Criminal Division, DOJ; Associate Independent Counsel, 


 Office of the Independent Counsel; Principal Deputy Assistant 


 Attorney General, Tax Division, DOJ; U.S. Attorney, U.S. 


 Attorney's Office for the District of Maryland.



 Two editorials in the Washington Post urged Senate 


 confirmation of Mr. Rosenstein and one stated ''blocking Mr. 


 Rosenstein's confirmation hearing . . . would elevate 


 ideology and ego above substance and merit, and it would 


 unfairly penalize a man who people on both sides of this 


 question agree is well qualified for a judgeship.''




 Nominee: Stephen Murphy, of MI, to the 6th Circuit 


 (Judicial Emergency); Pending over 1100 days. Nominated: 


 February 17, 2005; Renominated June 28, 2006; Renominated 


 March 19, 2007. ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Well 


 Qualified, Minority Qualified. Education: B.S., Marquette 


 University, 1984; J.D., St. Louis University, 1987.



 Career Highlights: Assistant U.S. Attorney, U.S. Attorney's 


 Office for the E.D. of Michigan; Attorney, General Motors; 


 U.S. Attorney, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern 


 District of Michigan.




 Nominee: Raymond Kethledge, of MI, to the 6th Circuit 


 (Judicial Emergency); Pending over 600 days.



 Nominated: June 28, 2006; Renominated March 19, 2007. ABA 


 Rating: Substantial Majority Well Qualified, Minority 


 Qualified. Education: B.A., University of Michigan, 1989; 


 J.D., University of Michigan Law School, 1993.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, 


 U.S. Supreme Court; Counsel, Senator Spencer Abraham, U.S. 


 Senate Judiciary Committee; Partner, Bush Seyferth Kethledge 


 & Paige.




 Nominee: William Smith, of RI, to the 1st Circuit (Judicial 


 Emergency); Pending over 80 days. Nominated: December 7, 


 2007. ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Well Qualified, 


 Minority Qualified. Education: B.A., Georgetown University 


 Law Center, 1982.



 Career Highlights: Counsel/Partner, Edwards & Angell, LLP; 


 Staff Director, Senator Lincoln Chafee; District Judge, 


 District of Rhode Island.




 Nominee: Shalom Stone, of NJ, to the 3rd Circuit (Judicial 


 Emergency); Pending over 220 days. Nominated: July 18, 2007. 


 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Qualified, Minority Well 


 Qualified. Education: B.A., magna cum laude, Yeshiva College; 


 J.D., cum laude, New York University School of Law. Career 


 Highlights: Associate, Sills, Cummis, Tischman, Epstein & 


 Gross; Member, Walder Hayden & Brogan, P.A.




 Nominee: Gene Pratter, of PA, to the 3rd Circuit; Pending 


 over 100 days. Nominated: November 15, 2007. ABA Rating: 


 Unanimous Well Qualified. Education: A.B., Stanford 


 University, 1971; J.D., University of Pennsylvania Law 


 School, 1975.



 Career Highlights: Partner, Duane Morris, LLP, District 


 Judge, Eastern District of Pennsylvania.














District Court Nominees




 Nominee: Thomas A. Farr, of NC, to the Eastern District of 


 North Carolina (Judicial Emergency). Nominated: December 7, 


 2006. ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified. Education: B.A., 


 summa cum laude, co-salutatorian, Hillsdale College, 1976; 


 J.D., Emory University School of Law, 1979; L.L.M., 


 Georgetown University School of Law, 1982.



 Career Highlights: Counsel, U.S. Senate Committee on Labor 


 and Human Resources; Staff Attorney, Office of Personnel 


 Management; Law Clerk, Judge Frank W. Bullock, Jr., U.S. 


 District Court for the M.D. of NC; Adjunct Professor, 


 Campbell University School of Law.




 Nominee: James R. Hall, to the Southern District of Georgia 


 (Judicial Emergency).



 Nominated: March 19, 2007; Hearing Feb. 12, 2008; Scheduled 


 for markup Feb. 28, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Well Qualified, Minority 


 Qualified.



 Education: B.A., Augusta College, 1979; J.D., University of 


 Georgia Law School, 1982.



 Career Highlights: Partner, Avrett & Hall; Corporate Vice 


 President & General Counsel, Bankers First Corporation; 22nd 


 District State Senator, Georgia State Senate; Partner, 


 Warrick, Tritt, Stebbins & Hall.




 Nominee: Gustavus Adolphus Puryear, of TN, to the Middle 


 District of Tennessee.



 Nominated: June 13, 2007; Hearing February 12, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Unanimously Qualified.



 Education: B.A., with highest honors, Emory University, 


 1990; J.D., with honors, University of North Carolina School 


 of Law, 1993.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge Rhesa Hawkins 


 Barksdale, Court of Appeals for the 5th Cir.; Legislative 


 Director, Office of U.S. Senator Bill Frist; Executive VP, 


 General Counsel & Secretary, Corrections Corporation of 


 America.




 Nominee: Brian Stacy Miller, of AR, to the Eastern District 


 of Arkansas.



 Nominated: October 16, 2007; Hearing February 12, 2008; 


 Markup February 28, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Unanimously Well Qualified.



 Education: B.S., with honors, University of Central 


 Arkansas, 1992; J.D., Vanderbilt Law School, 1995.



 Career Highlights: Deputy Prosecuting Attorney, Arkansas 


 Prosecuting Attorney's Office; Judge, Arkansas Court of 


 Appeals (current).




 Nominee: John A. Mendez, of CA, to the Eastern District of 


 California (Judicial Emergency).



 Nominated: Sept. 6, 2007; Hearing February 21, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Substantial majority Well Qualified, minority 


 Qualified.



 Education: B.A., with distinction, Stanford University, 


 1977; J.D., Harvard Law School, 1980.



 Career Highlights: United States Attorney, United States 


 Attorney's Office for the N.D. of CA; Shareholder, Somach, 


 Simmons & Dunn; Judge, Sacramento County Superior Court.




 Nominee: Richard H. Honaker, of WY, to the District of 


 Wyoming.



 Nominated: June 29, 2006; Hearing February 12, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified.



 Education: B.A., Harvard College, cum laude, 1973; J.D., 


 University of Wyoming College of Law, John J. Bugas 


 Scholarship, 1976.



 Career Highlights: State Public Defender, State of Wyoming; 


 Member, Wyoming House of Representatives, 1987-1993; Partner, 


 Honaker, Hampton & Newman.




 Nominee: Lincoln D. Almond, of RI, to the District of Rhode 


 Island.



 Nominated: November 15, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified.



 Education: B.S., University of Rhode Island, 1985; J.D., 


 with High Honors, University of Connecticut School of Law, 


 1988; Notes/Comments Editor, Connecticut Law Review.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge Peter C. Dorsey, 


 District Court for the District of Connecticut; Partner, 


 Edwards & Angell, LLP; Magistrate Judge, U.S. District Court 


 for the District of Rhode Island.




 Nominee: Mark S. Davis, of VA, to the Eastern District of 


 Virginia.



 Nominated: November 15, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Unanimous Well Qualified.



 Education: B.A., University of Virginia, 1984; J.D., 


 Washington and Lee University School of Law, 1988.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge John A. MacKenzie, U.S. 


 District Court for the E.D. of VA; Partner, McGuire Woods 


 LLP; Partner, Carr & Porter, LLC; State Court Judge, Third 


 Judicial Circuit of Virginia.




 Nominee: David J. Novak, of VA, to the Eastern District of 


 Virginia.



 Nominated: November 15, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Well Qualified, Minority 


 Qualified.



 Education: B.S., magna cum laude, St. Vincent College, 


 1983; J.D., Villanova University Law School, 1986.



 Career Highlights: Assistant District Attorney; 


 Philadelphia District Attorney's Office; Trial Attorney, 


 Criminal Division, DOJ; Assistant U.S. Attorney, U.S. 


 Attorney's Office for the S.D. of Texas; Assistant U.S. 


 Attorney, U.S. Attorney's Office for the E.D. of Virginia.




 Nominee: William J. Powell, of WV, to the Northern District 


 of West Virginia.



 Nominated: May 24, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Well Qualified, Minority 


 qualified, 1 abstention.



 Education: B.A., magna cum laude, Salem College, 1982; 


 J.D., West Virginia College of Law, 1985.



 Career Highlights: Assistant United States Attorney, 


 Southern District of WV; Member, Jackson Kelly, PLLC.




 Nominee: David R. Dugas, of LA, to the Middle District of 


 Louisiana.



 Nominated: March 19, 2007.





 ABA Rating: Unanimously Well Qualified.



 Education: Cadet, United States Air Force Academy, 1973; 


 J.D., Louisiana State University Law Center, 1978.



 Career Highlights: Partner, Caffery, Oubre, Dugas & 


 Campbell, L.L.P.; United States Attorney, Middle District of 


 Louisiana (current); Exec. Director, Hurricane Katrina Fraud 


 Task Force Joint Command Center.




 Nominee: Stephen N. Limbaugh Jr., of MO, to the Eastern 


 District of Missouri.



 Nominated: December 6, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Unanimously Well Qualified.



 Education: B.A., Southern Methodist University, 1973; J.D., 


 Southern Methodist University School of Law, 1976; Master of 


 Laws in the Judicial Process, UVA School of Law, 1998.



 Career Highlights: Circuit Judge: 32nd Judicial Circuit of 


 Missouri; Supreme Court Judge, Supreme Court of Missouri; 


 Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Missouri.




 Nominee: David Gregory Kays, of MO, to the Western District 


 of Missouri.



 Nominated: Nov. 15, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Qualified/Minority Not 


 Qualified.



 Education: B.S., Southwest Missouri State University, 1985; 


 J.D., University of Arkansas School of Law, 1988.



 Career Highlights: Prosecutor, Laclede County Prosecuting 


 Attorney's Office; Associate Circuit Judge, Laclede County 


 Circuit Court; Presiding Circuit Court Judge, Twenty-Sixth 


 Judicial District.




 Nominee: James Edward Rogan, of CA, to the Central District 


 of California (Judicial Emergency).



 Nominated: January 9, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Substantial Majority Well Qualified/Minority 


 Qualified.



 Education: B.A., University of California at Berkeley, 


 1979; J.D., University of California Los Angeles School of 


 Law, 1983.



 Career Highlights: Deputy District Attorney, Los Angeles 


 County District Attorney's Office; Judge, Glendale Municipal 


 Court; Member, California State Assembly; Member, United 


 States House of Representatives; Judge, California Superior 


 Court.




 Nominee: William T. Lawrence, of IN, to the Southern 


 District of Indiana (Judicial Emergency).



 Nominated: February 15, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Not yet rated.



 Education: B.A., Indiana University, 1970; J.D., Indiana 


 University School of Law-Indianapolis, 1973.



 Career Highlights: Public Defender (Part-time), Marion 


 County Superior Court, Criminal Division; Master Commissioner 


 (part-time), Marion County Circuit Court; Judge, Marion 


 County Circuit Court; Magistrate Judge, District Court for 


 the Southern District of Indiana (current).




 Nominee: G. Murray Snow, of AZ, to the District of Arizona.



 Nominated: Dec. 11, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Not yet rated.



 Education: B.A., magna cum laude, Brigham Young University, 


 1984; J.D., magna cum laude, J. Reuben Clark Law School, 


 Brigham Young University, 1987.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge Stephen H. Anderson, 


 Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals; Member, Meyer, Hendricks, 


 Victor, Osborn & Maledon, P.A.; Judge, Arizona Court of 


 Appeals.




 Nominee: Glenn T. Suddaby, of NY, to the Northern District 


 of New York.



 Nominated: December 11, 2007.



 ABA Rating: Not yet rated.



 Education: B.A., State University of New York at 


 Plattsburgh, 1980; J.D., Syracuse University College of Law, 


 1985.



 Career Highlights: Assistant District Attorney, Onondaga 


 County District Attorney's Office; First Chief Assist, 


 District Attorney, Onondaga County Dist. Attorney's Office; 


 United States Attorney, Northern District of New York.




 Nominee: Colm Connolly, of DE, to the District of Delaware.



 Nominated: February 26, 2008.



 ABA Rating: Not yet rated.



 Education: B.A., University of Notre Dame; M.Sc., London 


 School of Economics; J.D., Duke University Law School.



 Career Highlights: Law Clerk, Judge Walter Stapleton, Third 


 Circuit Court of Appeals; Assistant U.S. Attorney, U.S. 


 Attorney's Office for the District of Delaware; U.S. 


 Attorney, U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of 


 Delaware.




 It is my hope that we can work together to ensure that all 


 of these nominees receive timely hearings and prompt votes in 


 the Committee.



 In light of my extensive consultation with you in 


 scheduling the hearings for Chief Justice Roberts and Justice 


 Alito, as well as our collaboration on numerous other 


 Committee hearings, I was surprised when you scheduled a 


 hearing for Judge Catharina Haynes on February 21st during 


 the recess. I know you offered to postpone that hearing for a 


 relatively brief period of time, but a formal, written 


 request for a postponement would only have provided more 


 grist for the argument mill on these issues. I was prepared 


 to cancel my previously scheduled work in Pennsylvania to 


 attend the Haynes hearing until Senator John Warner, who was 


 in Washington, agreed to attend.



 Given the uncertainty of who the next President will be, 


 now would be a good time to change the confirmation process 


 to guarantee prompt action on nominees with up-or-down votes. 


 I again urge you to work for me to establish a schedule for 


 prompt consideration of all currently pending judicial 


 nominees and ensure they receive up-or-down votes in 


 Committee and on the Senate floor. I have shared this letter 


 with the other Republican members of the Committee.





 Sincerely,


























Arlen Specter.
