---
---

# HEALTH CARE
## `88e09c7853db1eaccd567dcc5e21301d`
`Mr. PALLONE — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. PALLONE. I appreciate your comments, because I know, as a 
physician and someone so caring, that you really understand how these 
problems relate to individuals.

I also appreciate the fact that you brought up the issue of 
priorities, because when we spend so much on the war in Iraq, as you 
say, we don't have the money, and the gentleman from Colorado talked 
about the deficit. The fact of the matter is that the President and the 
Republicans built up this deficit for so long, and now it makes it more 
difficult for us to find the funds to pay to cover the uninsured in the 
same way that we are spending all this


money in Iraq, and it means that we don't have the money left.

If I could just conclude, because I know we are running out of time, 
I do appreciate the fact that, in his State of the Union Address and 
also in the budget message, that the President was prioritizing health 
care and pointing out that we have a big problem with the uninsured.

But unless the solutions and the money are there to lead us down the 
path of covering the uninsured or lowering health care costs, then it 
is not going to be good enough to just say that is a problem.

I think, as you say, when we talk about going in a new direction, it 
means that the Democrats and the Democratic majority are determined to 
not only highlight that these problems exist and that we need to cover 
the uninsured to reduce cost, but to come up with solutions that 
practically are going to make a difference. That is why I am so happy 
that not only are you both here tonight speaking, but just that you are 
here, because all the new Members and particularly the new Democratic 
Members, I think, are going to make it possible to address these 
problems in a practical way.

I would conclude, again, by thanking both of you and everyone who 
joined us tonight, because we are moving in a new direction, and it is 
going to make a difference. Thank you.
