---
---

# HONORING CODY GRATER OF SPRING HILL, FLORIDA
## `88f552bb0bd8614b42bcb235e70567e6`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 4 September 2007`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
honor an American soldier who gave his life in service to our Nation.

Army Private First Class Cody C. Grater of Spring Hill, Florida was 
killed in action when he was struck by a rocket-propelled grenade near 
Baghdad, Iraq. Pfc. Grater is survived by his mother, Anita Lewis, 
stepfather Larry Decker of Spring Hill and sister Cheyanne Decker.

While standing guard duty on the rooftop of an outpost in Baghdad, 
Cody's position was


hit by a rocket propelled grenade. He was killed, and another soldier 
stationed nearby was injured in the blast. During his time in the 
military, Cody had been awarded the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, National 
Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism 
Medal, Army Service Ribbon and the Combat Action Badge.

Growing up in Hernando County, Cody had attended Springstead High 
School, where he had many friends and enjoyed working with cars and all 
things mechanical. An avid military buff as a child, Cody read military 
themed books and played with toys that dealt with the military. Prior 
to his enlistment in the Army, Cody was an active part of the Spring 
Hill Community, working with local elected officials to gain support 
for the construction of a skateboard park for area youth.

Joining the Army in April, 2006, Cody was assigned to the 407th 
Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team. He then completed 
Motor Transport Operator Advanced Individual Training at Fort Leonard 
Wood, Missouri and was re-assigned as a vehicle driver with the 82nd 
Airborne Division.

Halfway through his fourteen month tour in Iraq, Cody had planned to 
re-enlist so that he could work with Blackhawk helicopters. His 
stepfather said that Cody loved the military and that ''It was his goal 
to make the Army his career, which he loved. He was proud of serving 
his country.'' A firm believer in the mission he was fighting in Iraq, 
Cody was disappointed that people back home in the United States did 
not see the positive results of the military's efforts there.

Madam Speaker, it is soldiers like Pfc. Cody Grater who have 
volunteered to protect the freedoms that all Americans hold dear. While 
brave men and women like Cody have perished in the name of freedom and 
liberty, his family, friends and loved ones should know that this 
Congress will never forget his sacrifice and commitment.
