---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SPECIALIST DUSTIN R. DONICA, TEXAS WARRIOR
## `88fcc45357e4c20718f09872e2e153d0`
`Mr. POE — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Mr. Speaker, General Douglas MacArthur said: ''A true leader 
has the confidence to stand alone, the courage to make tough decisions, 
and the compassion to listen to the needs of others. He does not set 
out to be a leader, but becomes one by the quality of his actions and 
the integrity of his intent.''

Tonight, I want to talk about that kind of leader, Army Specialist 
Dustin Ross Donica, 3rd Battalion, 509th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 
4th Airborne Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division of Fort 
Richardson, Alaska.

Dustin grew up in Spring, Texas, outside of Houston. His nickname was 
Double D. He enjoyed teasing his sister, Courtney. He loved to joke 
around with his family and his friends, and he was known by many for 
his unique sense of humor. He was very, very close to his family.

He was especially close to his only sister, with whom he shared an 
unbreakable bond. They were called the ''Irish Twins,'' born 1 year 
apart. The two often told others they were actually twins.

Dustin always described himself as a modest person, although looking 
at his life, this modest son of Texas accomplished extraordinary 
accomplishments. Even at a young age, he was known as the hero who grew 
up down the street. That was because of his attitude about service and 
about loyalty.

In 2003, the Klein High School graduate left the University of Texas 
and enlisted in the United States Army.

When Dustin was asked about joining the Army, he said, ''I've grown 
up in a very privileged area. When most people of my generation are 
asked to do something, their first thought is, how will this benefit 
me? I need to do this so that my first thought is, how does it benefit 
others.''

No wonder people said Dustin had a sense of honor and duty, traits 
that are very rare in our culture.

When Dustin was deployed to Iraq, he sent his sister a teddy bear. 
The teddy bear was wearing an Airborne uniform complete with a Donica 
patch on the pocket. He wanted the bear to serve as a reminder that he 
was fighting to keep her safe and he was always constantly thinking of 
her.

Mr. Speaker, you know, there's something all-American about a teddy 
bear. Dustin was constantly concerned for the well-being of his family 
back home. Even though he was in the combat war zone, all of Dustin's 
phone conversations with his family ended, ''Remember, I love y'all. 
Take care. Be safe.''

One of Dustin's last requests was that his parents visit his close 
friend, Logan. Logan had served also in Iraq, and he was being treated 
in the United States for his injuries. He was a very close friend of 
Dustin's, and Dustin asked that his parents provide Logan comfort by 
visiting him in the hospital in the United States.

But on December 28, 2006, at the dynamic age of 22, Double D., Dustin 
Donica was killed in Iraq, conducting combat operations against the 
anti-Iraqi forces in the city of Karmah in the Al Anbar Province.

As in many other times in his life, Dustin was standing guard, 
protecting his fellow soldiers in arms when he received his fatal 
injuries.

Now, the media has taken it upon themselves to assign a number to 
this patriot. Dustin's legacy is more than just a number. He was an 
American fighting man. He was the only son of the Donica family. He was 
totally committed to America. He was not a media number. And Dustin 
Donica's name was the example of bravery, courage and duty.

Dustin, like those who came before him, stopped at nothing to defend 
freedom. Our American duty, the duty for all of us that are left 
behind, is to honor America's sons, like Dustin Donica. In the words of 
President Calvin Coolidge, ''The Nation which forgets its defenders . . 
. it too will be forgotten.''

Dustin was a man who loved life, family and country. His parents, 
David and Judy Donica said, ''We loved Dustin. He will be missed by us 
and those that knew him.''

This is a photograph of Dustin Donica, Mr. Speaker. And yesterday 
Dustin was laid to rest with full military honors in Klein Memorial 
Park Cemetery in Texas.

These words from one of Dustin's favorite songs, ''American Soldier'' 
by Toby Keith, describe the commitment of courageous men like Dustin 
who we are proud of, men who are proud to wear the uniform of the 
United States soldier. It goes like this, Mr. Speaker: ''An American 
soldier, an American, beside my brothers and sisters, I will proudly 
take a stand. When liberty is in jeopardy, I will always do what's 
right. I am out here on the front line. So sleep well tonight. Sleep in 
peace, America, because I'm an American soldier.''

These young Americans like Dustin are a rare breed, Mr. Speaker. They 
are the American breed, and we thank them and their families.

And that's just the way it is.
