# RENEWABLE ENERGY AND JOB CREATION TAX ACT OF 2008
## `89185f1f5ac80263286ae1cb91c45fd2`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 26 September 2008`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Perhaps the sixth time will be the charm. This is the 
sixth time that this House has approved this legislation to encourage 
more renewable energy, more solar energy, more wind energy, and 
provisions that I authored that will encourage plug-in hybrid vehicles 
and geothermal heat pumps and will promote small business development 
of biodiesel.

American innovation can fuel new jobs and increase exports abroad. We 
can put more green where it really counts, in the wallets and in the 
purses of the working families of America.

The choice is ours. We can either run this new economy that is less 
dependent on fossil fuels, or we can get run over by it.

Now, really this is not a House/Senate dispute. This is about the 
Republicans taking the renewable energy bill hostage. Their approach 
boils down to this: They absolutely refuse to let us take America 
forward into a less fossil fuel-dependent economy unless we borrow the 
money to do it.

We all know what the George Bush approach has been for 8 years. 
''What, me worry?'' Well, his philosophy is ''just swipe the debt on 
the national credit card.'' Just borrow a little more money, whether 
it's the cost of the Iraq war, or it's $700 billion for a Wall Street 
bailout. ''Don't worry, it's a free lunch. What, me worry? No, just put 
it on the credit card.''

And that's what they're saying this morning. They will not let us 
move forward with renewable energy and a new green economy unless we 
borrow more money. How much more money do they think the American 
people can stand to borrow?

Under President George Bush we have added almost $4 trillion, more 
than all the presidents before him put together borrowing from foreign 
sources. And they want us to borrow even more before they will allow us 
to do what the American people want, and that is, to look to the 
future.

If this George Bush bailout proposal has taught us anything, it is 
the danger of over-borrowing.