# SUPPORTING UNITED STATES MILITARY HISTORY MONTH
## `892f2d8144388e94dd8316fb8a202f2e`
`Mr. DRIEHAUS — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. DRIEHAUS. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1442, a resolution 
supporting the goals and ideals of United States Military History 
Month.

H. Res. 1442 was introduced by our colleague, the gentleman from 
Tennessee, Representative John Duncan, on June 15, 2010. It was 
referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which 
ordered it reported favorably by unanimous consent on September 23, 
2010. The measure enjoys the support of over 50 Members of the House.

Mr. Speaker, from the Revolutionary War to the present conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, the actions and leadership of our Armed Forces 
have shaped the history of our Nation and helped to preserve our 
freedoms. One cannot understand our country without understanding our 
history, and our military has always had a critical role in our 
history.

For all that they've done for our Nation, our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, guardians, and marines deserve our appreciation and respect. 
One of the ways we can do this is by helping to ensure that Americans 
understand the role that our military has played in the development of 
our Nation and in the history of our world. I, therefore, ask my 
colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 1442 and encourage all 
Americans to take time to learn more about our Nation's military 
history.

I reserve the balance of my time.