# None
## `8934f027ebfca55e3cef1be3bc921ea1`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the hope of anybody in politics is to 
serve in a body, such as the Senate, at a time when it matters. Our 
hopes and dreams have come true. We in Government decide what matters. 
What we are doing on this Defense authorization bill matters. It 
matters to the men and women in uniform. It matters to everybody in the 
world because during these difficult times the world is facing, 
increasingly the world is turning to the American men and women, our 
fighting men and women, to make things right.

Imagine a world without the brave Armed Forces of the United States. 
What would that world look like? It would be a very dangerous place, 
more so than it is now. So I wish to say the one thing we have in 
common as Republicans and Democrats is admiration for those who are 
carrying the burden of fighting a worldwide global struggle called the 
war on terror.

Now to Iraq. We are going to have amendments this week that have one 
common theme to them. It would take the current strategy in Iraq and 
change it. General Petraeus was unanimously approved by this body to go 
to Iraq and do something different. He told us before he left: I need 
more troops. The reason I need more troops is because the mistakes we 
made in the past have caught up with us.

What is the biggest mistake America made right after the fall of 
Baghdad? Not having enough security to keep the country from spiraling 
out of control, not having enough security to suppress the militias. 
One thing I have learned in life, where there is lawlessness, people 
fill in the vacuum. If the Government cannot protect you, then you will 
find groups who will protect you.

What happened in Iraq is the security got out of control, and we had 
sectarian violence spawned by al-Qaida. The thing we have to realize as 
a nation is this organization called al-Qaida has one common goal. It 
is not about Sunni, Shia, and Kurds; it is about moderation. They hate 
moderation in any form. It doesn't matter if it is wearing a Sunni 
face, a Shia face, or a Kurdish face. They have come to Iraq to destroy 
this infant democracy.

The report card on the political progress in Iraq: It is about like 
here at home. I give it a very low grade. Unlike here at home--we do 
have a stable society, for the most part--in Iraq they have a very 
unstable society, so they need political leadership desperately.

After my sixth or seventh visit on the Fourth of July week past, I am 
here to say there is bad news. The bad news, from my point of view, is 
the Iraqi political leadership that exists today is paralyzed, very 
much like we are here at home. I don't see them anytime soon having a 
breakout when it comes to political reconciliation, but I do have hope 
for the future that they will do that, and it is not an unrealistic 
hope.

There is some emerging movements in Iraq politically that can bring 
about


reconciliation. But here is the good news. The strategy of additional 
combat power getting out from behind the walls, out of the fortresses, 
out into the hinterlands of Iraq to fight al-Qaida is working.

The one thing I can tell my colleagues with certainty is, for 3/1/2/ 
years, I went to Iraq and I came back every time despondent because I 
could see the security situation spiraling out of control and I was 
told time and time again: No, the training strategy is working. Our 
goal is to train the Iraqi Army and police forces, and we are doing a 
good job.

The first time I went to Iraq, I went rug shopping. The last time I 
went before the change in strategy, I was in a tank. It was clear to 
me, being a military lawyer, not a combat commander, that the situation 
on the ground was getting worse. This time around, after the new 
strategy has been in place, things are getting better on the ground 
when it comes to suppressing the No. 1 enemy of this Nation right now 
for the moment and that is called al-Qaida.

Al-Qaida in Iraq flourished under the old strategy. They were able to 
dominate different regions of Iraq. Sunni populations were being 
terrorized, and a lot of bad things happened when we were in Baghdad 
training and not fighting.

General Petraeus, when he got in charge, when he got in place said we 
are going to change strategy. What he has done is he has sent 
additional combat power into areas previously held by al-Qaida. He went 
to the tribal leaders in those areas and said: If you are fed up, we 
are here to help.

Here is the good news. To a person almost, the people who lived under 
al-Qaida's regime in Iraq said: No, thank you. That is not the life I 
want for myself or my family or my friends or my group.

Al-Qaida overplayed their hand. They were incredibly vicious and 
brutal and they overplayed their hand. What has happened in the last 
few months is this additional combat capability that now exists in Iraq 
has married up with a desire by the Sunnis, who have been oppressed by 
the al-Qaida elements in Iraq, to join forces.

It is undeniable that in Anbar, the situation has changed in the last 
6 months in a dramatic way. The Sunni tribal leaders in Anbar have 
broken with al-Qaida, they have joined with General Petraeus and Iraqi 
security forces and literally that province has changed. There are 
areas in Anbar Province where you could not go before that you can go 
to now, where there is a new alliance in place. There has been a surge 
in police recruits, Sunnis joining the police force to protect their 
hometown against al-Qaida.

So the formula General Petraeus had in mind is not dependent upon 
central Government reconciliation. He went out into the troubled areas, 
and he told the people living under al-Qaida: If you choose to, we will 
help you, and you need to help yourselves. And they have chosen to help 
themselves. They have chosen to tell us where al-Qaida is operating. 
They have given us better intelligence than we have ever had in the 
past. They have joined the fight, and we are winning. Al-Qaida today is 
on the run. They are on the run because the Iraqi people have broken 
with their way of life.

The big question for a lot of Americans is: Is everybody in the 
Mideast committed to extremism? Is there any hope that people in the 
Mideast want a different way of life than bin Laden charted for them? 
The answer is yes, and the best evidence I can give is what is going on 
in Iraq. Where American combat power has been in place in sufficient 
numbers and levels, the Iraqis have chosen to side with us and reject 
al-Qaida. That should be heartening news. Given a choice, given the 
opportunity, those who have lived under the al-Qaida regime and 
ideology have said: No, thank you.


The permanent solution is political reconciliation, but if we can 
focus as a nation on defeating al-Qaida in Iraq, it would be a much 
better world. The political reconciliation yet to come in Iraq would be 
enhanced if we could destroy elements of al-Qaida in Iraq. The global 
war on terror would be enhanced if we destroy al-Qaida in Iraq. The way 
we do that is, again, by forming alliances with Sunnis who reject their 
ideology, and once we defeat al-Qaida in a neighborhood or city, we 
have gotten the local people to step up to the plate and become 
policemen.

The number of police in Anbar Province has gone up dramatically, and 
they are providing what was missing before: a stable law-and-order 
regime that is rejecting extremism.

The police forces in the Sunni areas in Anbar are doing very well. 
They have the trust of the people, and they are marrying up with Iraqi 
Army units, where most of the officers are Shias. But we found the Shia 
Iraqi Army leadership and the Sunni police forces have worked well 
together in Anbar.

What did the enemy do? They moved to Diyala. We are going to the 
Diyala Province, another Sunni area, more mixed than Anbar, and we are 
getting the same results. Extreme violence is the first thing we get, 
terrorism. This spectacular attack will continue for a long time to 
come, but the actual situation on the ground has changed dramatically 
in Anbar, and it is beginning to change in Diyala. Why? We never before 
had combat capability in the Diyala Province. The tribal leaders in 
that province have joined with us, as they did in Anbar. More people 
are joining the police and, again, al-Qaida is moving down the road.

The goal for us as a nation is to sustain this capability until we 
defeat al-Qaida in Iraq. I don't believe that is going to take much 
longer because what we have left behind in Anbar in a few months is 
going to be mature enough that we will not need that many troops. In a 
few months from now, we are going to have a mature police force and a 
well-trained Army to control areas in Anbar Province that previously 
were in the hands of al-Qaida. It is going to take some time.

When General Petraeus comes back in September, I think he will give 
us a mixed report. That will be the honest truth. There are still areas 
in Iraq very much in doubt. But where we go in force and where people 
have the choice to make, they are making the choice we hoped they would 
make.

Our choice in Congress is whether we change course. Do we, in July, 
adopt amendments that will destroy the Petraeus strategy and replace it 
with the old strategy? One thing my Democratic and Republican 
colleagues have in common is they are trying to do what is best for the 
country.

This is what I think is best. I think it is best not to do anything 
now that would give al-Qaida a second chance in life. I don't want the 
Senate to be the cavalry for al-Qaida. By that I mean, I don't want us 
to adopt an amendment that will destroy the ability of General Petraeus 
to go after the enemy in an aggressive fashion and continue forming 
these alliances by undercutting his ability to have the manpower he 
needs. The old strategy has failed. To go back to the old strategy is a 
godsend to al-Qaida and is a death blow to those who have come out of 
the shadows to say: I want a better way; I want a better Iraq.

We have a chance to give this general and the troops who have gone as 
part of this surge a chance to do something that I think is in our 
national security interest: Keep al-Qaida on the run and destroy it. I 
am convinced now more than ever that the ability to destroy al-Qaida in 
Iraq is within our grasp, and it is a combination of additional 
American military power and the will and the desire of the Iraqi people 
to reject al-Qaida.

Let's not be the cavalry for al-Qaida. Let's not do something 
politically in Washington that will put them back in the fight. We are 
going to be taking casualties as long as al-Qaida exists anywhere on 
the planet. My goal and the military's goal is to fight them over 
there, suppress them over there, bring out the best in the people in 
the Mideast, and we are seeing, slowly but surely, that the people in 
Iraq who have lived under al-Qaida are turning away. That is indeed 
good news. Are they turning to democracy and political unity? No, not 
yet. But the precondition, the forming of a new Iraq is to take those 
who wish to destroy this new democracy and isolate them and destroy 
them before they can destroy this idea called moderation.

The al-Qaida agenda is not limited to Iraq, but they see it as a 
central battlefront in the war on terror. We should see it as the 
central battlefront in the war on terror. Any amendment that is adopted 
in July that would undo the Petraeus strategy is shortsighted and, in 
the long run, very devastating to our national security interests.



I urge my colleagues to look closely and ask the questions that need 
to be asked, not for the next election but for the next generation of 
young Americans and people in the Mideast, and that question is: If we 
do not stay committed to this fight against an enemy who hates 
everything we stand for now, what are the consequences later? I can 
tell my colleagues, and I will close with this thought, that history 
tells us the answer to that question. Every time extremism has been 
appeased, good people die unnecessarily. We have good people in Iraq. 
The Iraqi people have good people among their population. Our men and 
women in uniform are the best we have to offer. This alliance between 
the good will defeat the evil, as it always has done, only if we have 
greater will than our enemy.

The votes we are about to take are about political will. I hope we 
will choose the path that history tells us we should take. Say no to 
extremism and yes to moderation.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.