# NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `8942f53d99fe8d1c23f677a5d4a6970c`
`Mr. BAIRD — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Chairman, I very much appreciate and admire and 
respect the gentleman from Florida, and I understand full well where he 
is coming from. He has been a passionate supporter of our manned space 
program, and I share some of his concerns about the impact on that 
budget. I do think, however, that his offsets are wrong, and that is 
why I reserved the point of order which in just a moment I will press.



There are many, many places in the Federal budget where we could find 
possible money to support the gentleman's aims, many within, for 
example, the Commerce appropriations bill.

It is possible for the gentleman to adjust revenue impacts of tax 
cuts. It would be possible for the gentleman to seek offsets or matches 
through funding for the war in Iraq, which is burning about $2.5 
billion per week from our economy.

So if the gentleman is interested, as I know he is, in supporting 
space flight and continued investment in that, I would suggest that 
more appropriate offsets are available elsewhere in the Federal budget.

And I would also say it would be just terribly unfortunate to hold 
the Science Foundation budget, which this bill authorizes, hostage. 
You've got the wrong hostage. There are other places where lots more 
money is being reduced from the revenue stream or being expended on 
things that may not be in the best long-term national interest of this 
country. And for that reason, and for the fact that I actually consider 
the amendment nongermane, I will have to oppose it.
















 Point of Order
