---
---

# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `8946d9f035e89cb10352a703243c2dc7`
`Mr. KYL — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, what Charles Krauthammer, who is a very 
knowledgeable analyst and writer on this subject, has said is that the 
Petraeus plan has the makings of a successful strategy, it has already 
begun to show some positive results, and that it would be folly to 
declare it a failure before it even has a chance to play out.

Everybody knows General Petraeus is going to report back to the 
Congress and to the President in September of this year, and he will be 
accompanied by Ambassador Crocker, our Ambassador to Iraq, who will 
give us a report on the status of the situation. Now, it has never been 
contemplated that that is the end of the matter by any stretch of the 
imagination since it will have only been a few months since the 
strategy will have been in place, but at least he can give us an idea 
of how it is working. Why anybody would want to set a different course 
now, before he gives that report, is beyond me and certainly beyond 
Charles Krauthammer.

Krauthammer points out that this new strategy has already begun to 
show success. For example, in the Anbar Province, which was an area 
that was almost exclusively controlled by al-Qaida--let me digress for 
just a moment to make this point. We heard discussions several months 
ago about a civil war in Iraq. It is true, there were elements of Sunni 
and Shiite Iraqis who were fighting each other, and some were calling 
that a civil war. But two things are important to know about that.

The first is that much of that fighting was instigated by al-Qaida. 
Al-Qaida had come into the Sunni areas and had a declared intention to 
start a fight between the Shiites and the Sunnis. When the fight didn't 
materialize, al-Qaida went to Samarra, a holy place for Shiites, and 
blew up one of their most revered shrines, the Golden Mosque. In fact, 
it has been twice attacked, thus, in effect, poking the nose of the 
bear to the point that the bear had to react, and the Shiites did 
react. They said: If the Iraqi Army cannot protect our holy sites, by 
golly, we will--or whatever the Iraqi phrase is--and they created 
militias that began attacking Sunnis, and we did have a lot of Shiite 
on Sunni and vice versa violence. But the first point is it was largely 
instigated by al-Qaida, who knew precisely what it was doing and had a 
declared strategy to begin that fight. We have the intelligence to 
demonstrate that.

The second point is that al-Qaida, since that violence has to some 
extent now subsided because of the surge--we have gone into these 
Shiite neighborhoods, for example, and we have persuaded the Shiite 
leadership to stop the militias from acting, stop the violence, and 
calm the neighborhoods down so that life can return to normal, and in 
at least half of Baghdad that has now been what is occurring.

In the Sunni areas, we went to the tribal leaders there and said: 
Look, al-Qaida is causing you more problems than it is solving. 
Eventually, these tribal leaders came back to our troops and to the 
Iraqi leadership and said: You are right. We have now seen what life 
under al-Qaida would be like as a Taliban kind of rule, where they 
don't let us do anything; they impose this very harsh penalty on 
anybody who isn't conforming to their way of life.

Most of the al-Qaida are coming into Iraq from other countries. They 
are foreigners to the Iraqis, and many of these tribal sheiks, almost 
all of them in the Anbar Province, said: We are tired of dealing with 
these al-Qaida terrorists, and we want to join you in fighting them. By 
the hundreds and thousands, young Iraqis began joining the police and 
army to fight al-Qaida. And Anbar Province now, as Charles Krauthammer 
details in his article and as our intelligence has also made very 
clear, has become one of the strongest anti-al-Qaida areas in the 
country. It has largely been pacified. It is a good example of how this 
new strategy can work.

What Krauthammer says is: We don't know yet if this same strategy 
will work in the next Sunni-Shiite areas, but we can see how it has 
worked and how it could work if we allow time for the Petraeus plan to 
play out. He points out that a month ago, Petraeus was asked whether we 
could still win in Iraq. I am going to quote here:




 The General, who had recently attended two memorial 


 services for soldiers lost under his command, replied that if 


 he thought he could not succeed, he would not be risking the 


 life of a single soldier.


That is a very important concept for us to remember back here because 
when people talk about supporting the troops, it seems to me the first 
type of support we should be providing is the moral support for these 
soldiers, to support their mission, not only to provide everything they 
need in terms of material support and training but to assure them they 
are not risking their lives in vain, that we will continue to support 
the mission we have sent them on that they think they can win and 
believe they are winning. The worst thing we could do is to have 
expressions here in the Senate that we think they have lost or that 
they can't win, and therefore we want to begin declaring defeat and 
leaving the battlefield. At that point, as it was back in Vietnam, it 
becomes a question of who is the last man out and who is the last 
person to risk death, for what? For a timetable? That cannot be why we 
send young men and women into combat, into harm's way.

For those who believe it is already lost or that it is a failure and 
that we cannot succeed, I say to them, you have an obligation, then, to 
try to bring them home immediately because not 1 more day should pass 
for people to risk life for nothing more than a timetable. I don't 
happen to believe that. General Petraeus doesn't happen to believe 
that. I believe we can allow the Petraeus plan to have the time it 
needs to show that it can succeed, not just in Anbar Province but in 
other places in Iraq as well.

Let me quote another couple of sentences from Krauthammer's article:




 Just this week Petraeus said that the one thing he needs 


 more than anything else is time. To cut off Petraeus's plan 


 just as it is beginning--





Krauthammer says--



 the last surge troops arrived only last month--on the 


 assumption that we cannot succeed is to declare Petraeus 


 either deluded or dishonorable.


Well, he is clearly not deluded or dishonorable.

I regret that some of my colleagues believe the only way to resolve 
the situation in Iraq is to begin leaving now. That would be a strategy 
for failure.

I ask my colleagues this: We have in this body made pronouncements 
that we need to help people in places such as Darfur where there is 
genocide occurring, and we have always tried to help people, whether it 
be in Kosovo or Afghanistan or--and incidentally, isn't it interesting 
that in two of those places, we are talking about largely Muslim 
countries, and in places such as Somalia, also a predominance of 
Muslims--we cannot as a nation ignore what would happen in Iraq were we 
to leave prematurely. Almost all of the intelligence in the Baker-
Hamilton report which is cited by many of my colleagues confirms this 
as well, acknowledges that if we leave Iraq before the Iraqis can 
maintain peace and stability, the kind of genocide and killing and 
terrorism that would ensue would be almost incalculable. Thousands, if 
not hundreds of thousands and more, would die. Many believe that blood 
would be on our hands if we are the ones who walk out before they have 
the ability to prevent that kind of violence.

Al-Qaida clearly is the primary enemy now. As I talked about before, 
the largely Shiite-Sunni violence has subsided to a significant degree, 
and most of what is occurring against our forces and against other 
Iraqis today is being perpetrated by al-Qaida--Al-Qaida in Iraq. If we 
leave and al-Qaida in Iraq is allowed basically a free hand, most 
predict that it will have created a situation where, like it did in 
Afghanistan, al-Qaida will have the ability to train, to plan attacks, 
and to have refuge from any kind of action to stop them from doing so. 
They would also have access to the oil wealth of the country of Iraq 
and to the other resources of the country. To the extent that anybody 
in Iraq has tried to be a friend of the United States or cooperate with 
the Iraqi Government--all of those people, remember, with the purple 
thumbs--would be targeted by the thugs and terrorists who would reign 
in Iraq. They would undoubtedly be executed.

Think of Saddam Hussein's regime. Think back when the North 
Vietnamese came sweeping into South Vietnam and all of the boat people 
fled and those who didn't get away were sent to the ''reeducation 
camps'' or killed. Think of Cambodia, when we left there with 3 million 
Cambodians killed.

Were we to leave Iraq, hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of 
people will die--largely innocent people. That blood will be on our 
hands.

Mr. President, that is not the worst of it. The U.S. security will 
have been significantly jeopardized because we will have ceded the 
central battle in the war against the terrorists to the terrorists. We 
will have been defeated by the terrorists, much more than their sneak 
attack on September 11 defeated us. It killed 3,000 Americans. It was, 
like Pearl Harbor, the attack that awoke the ''sleeping giant'' to 
finally recognize that after having been attacked, I believe, six times 
previously by al-Qaida, we finally realized we are in a war with those 
people. Whether we want to fight or not, they are going to attack us, 
and we better fight back.

We began to do that. I fear that there is a tiredness beginning to 
seep into some around the world--and even among some Americans--in 
fighting this enemy that is very elusive and generally doesn't fight us 
on the battlefield but, rather, waits and waits and, as soon as we 
relax, engages in a sneak attack. They have tried to do it against our 
allies. They have done it in Great Britain and in Spain, for example. 
Other activities have been thwarted. We have been fortunate because our 
homeland security has thwarted those attacks here at home.

We are not always going to have a battlefield on which to confront 
them. What confuses me is the argument of some of my colleagues that we 
should cede the one place where they have directly confronted us on the 
battlefield in Iraq--cede that battle to the enemy by prematurely 
withdrawing our troops and somehow reconfiguring our effort to fight 
them in a different way at a different place. The argument that, if we 
leave Iraq, we can focus on them in Afghanistan is a false choice. We 
are fighting them in both places. If we need more elements of support 
in Afghanistan, then we should send them there. That is supposed to be 
a NATO exercise, and a lot of our NATO friends could be doing more 
there to help us. I think we could use more help there.

It is a false argument to say we should not fight them in both 
places, when the enemy has finally come out onto the battlefield and is 
confronting us in the one area where we can defeat them with the U.S. 
military. Nobody can beat our military, the best military in the world 
and that has ever existed. Al-Qaida is no match for our military. When 
they are willing to basically come out of their holes and confront us 
in Iraq, for us not to directly attack, kill, or capture as many of 
them as possible would be the ultimate in negligence and fecklessness 
in fighting the war against terrorists. They are the terrorists; they 
are there. We are able to kill them there. Why we would not engage the 
enemy in the place where there are the most of them is beyond me.

Now, what that means is that we are putting our young men and women 
in harm's way. They have volunteered for this mission in which they 
believe deeply because they have looked into the eye of the enemy and 
have seen the evil that is there, and they have been willing to lay 
their lives on the line. Given that fact, and given the fact that we 
have a brilliant commander with a strategy that appears to be working, 
why would the United States Congress pull the rug out from under the 
operation of General Petraeus and our troops when they have their hands 
around the neck of the enemy and can deal a very severe blow to this 
evil enemy? That is beyond my comprehension. It takes nothing from the 
argument that we should be engaged in intelligence operations around 
the world, that we should be trying our best to get Osama bin Laden, 
and their argument suggests that somehow we are not. That denigrates 
the efforts of our special forces and others who, believe me, are 
trying their very best to get this guy and the other leadership of al-
Qaida. But to somehow suggest that we should leave Iraq because the 
enemy exists in other places is not only totally illogical but, as I 
said, would be a very feckless approach in trying to win this war 
against the terrorists.

Another thing that bothers me relates directly to the bill we are 
debating. We are going to see it next week, and we saw it this morning. 
It is the notion that has begun to creep into the discussion that maybe 
this is not really a war at all. One of the candidates for President 
called this just a bumper sticker. Well, their effort to make this a 
criminal enterprise--in other words, to criminalize the war rather than 
treat it as the war that it is--is very troublesome to me.

This morning, we had an amendment that was drafted to provide that 
instead of a $25 million reward to get Osama bin Laden, it upped it to 
$50 million for the capture or information leading to the capture of 
Osama bin Laden.

Mr. President, I was not aware there was a limit on time.