---
---

# RECOGNIZING WREATHS ACROSS AMERICA
## `895430a37411d30c8dc9af25eb31fcbd`
`Ms. SNOWE — 11 December 2009`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, today I pay tribute to Wreaths Across 
America and Morrill and Karen Worcester, whose outstanding vision of a 
nationwide effort to extol America's fallen heroes is now in its 18th 
year!

Nothing could be more central to the Wreaths Across America 
organization--which counts among its many tremendous volunteers and 
partners, The Maine State Society of Washington, DC, the Civil Air 
Patrol, the Patriot Guard Riders, and members of The American Legion 
and Veterans of Foreign Wars--than its noble mission to remember those 
who made the ultimate sacrifice, honor those who serve, and teach our 
children that today's freedoms have been won at a great price. And how 
fitting it is that


Mainers across our State ushered in this week of solemn events and 
wreath-laying ceremonies sponsored by Wreaths Across America, the 
culmination of which will be the delivery of as many as 16,000 wreaths 
for placement at Arlington National Cemetery on December 12 as well as 
observances in more than 400 participating locations nationwide, 
including 24 overseas veterans cemeteries. Indeed, I could not have 
been more gratified to join Senator Collins in introducing legislation, 
designating December 12, 2009, as ''Wreaths Across America Day'' which 
passed the Senate unanimously on the first of this month.

What an inexpressible source of pride it is that tomorrow, on the 
morning of the 12th, a convoy of Mainers is scheduled to arrive at 
Arlington National Cemetery to lay Maine-made balsam wreaths at the 
grave sites of our Nation's fallen heroes. The Patriot Guard Riders 
will continue their tradition of escorting tractor-trailers filled with 
wreaths donated by Worcester Wreath Company in Harrington, ME, to 
Arlington National Cemetery. On a personal note, I well recall the 
Worcester's initiating the Arlington Wreath Project in December of 
1992, when Morrill called my office to ask if he could place his excess 
wreaths on the graves at Arlington National Cemetery. I never could 
have imagined that what occurred then would someday evolve into a 
nationwide expression of unfailing gratitude to our troops.

The enduring legacy of our bravest and finest for whom service above 
self and country above self-interest is woven into the fabric of our 
greatness is a powerful reminder that freedom is not free, especially 
as the indelible memories of those heroes who, in the immortal words of 
President Lincoln ''gave the last full measure of devotion,'' are 
etched forever in our minds and upon our hearts. We also owe an 
enormous debt of gratitude to the men and women extraordinary enough to 
wear the uniform who are currently serving in harm's way and placing 
their lives on the line on our behalf, especially in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Indeed, what a fitting remembrance this annual gesture of 
reverence and gratefulness by Wreaths Across America represents, 
especially during this joyous season of giving, for those who have 
bequeathed this great land so much, and for whom we are truly grateful.
