---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `89551da68cbcc35caeb30085c71724e8`
`Ms. STABENOW — 20 September 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I first thank my friend and colleague 
from Wisconsin for his foresight and his leadership on this very 
critical issue, the most critical issue facing our country.

I rise today to support the Feingold amendment, as I have in the 
past. The American people want us to stop this direction we are going 
in and to, in fact, bring our military home so they can be effectively 
refocused, to redeploy to address the real threats that are facing 
America.

We all heard during the Armed Services hearing the distinguished 
Senator from Virginia, Mr. Warner, ask what I think is the most 
important question to General Petraeus. After General Petraeus had laid 
out the strategy and what was happening on the surge, Senator Warner 
asked him: General, are we safer? Is America safer? He then first began 
to answer that question by talking about the fact that he was 
proceeding on the mission that had been given to him.

Then he was asked again, and I believe it was the third time he was 
asked by the Senator. He was asked: Is America safer? The general said: 
I don't know.

Three-quarters of a trillion dollars spent, lives lost--thousands of 
lives, hundreds of thousands of Iraqis and innocent civilians--and the 
answer is: I don't know. I think the American people do know.

I think the American people understand that when we are directing our 
forces--our brave men and women, the best trained, the most highly 
recognized and effective troops in the world--when we are placing them 
in the middle of a civil war in Iraq, and then we turn on our 
television sets and we see the man who has the organization that 
attacked us and killed over 3,000 Americans on American soil speaking 
to us through a video, commenting on American politics and what is 
happening here in the Senate, they are appalled. People understand we 
should be addressing ourselves to the people who attacked us and the 
real threats we have. We know where they are, at least close to where 
they are. We know the region, and we need to redeploy our troops to 
address the threats that have, in fact, been serious for America--not 
the middle of a civil war, but the people who attacked us, and those 
now who have joined them in their cause.

My husband is a veteran of the Air Force and the Air National Guard; 
14 years. He reminds me all the time that our men and women in uniform 
are doing their duty to complete the mission that is laid out for them 
in a democratic society by their civilian leaders, by their President, 
by their Congress. They look to us, they are counting on us to make 
sure it is the right one, to give them what they need, but to also give 
them a strategy that makes sense. They are counting on us to ask tough 
questions, to probe. They are there putting their lives on the line 
every single day. Their families are at home sacrificing every single 
day, and they are counting on us to get this right.


As one of the people who voted no on going into this war in Iraq, I 
now join with colleagues in saying: Enough is enough. This has to 
change. There are real threats. We need to refocus and redeploy in the 
name of safety for Americans. But we need to make sure we are ending 
this civil war participation we have put our soldiers into. The 
Feingold amendment does this. It brings our troops home and refocuses 
them, redeploys them, as we should, in a way that will truly focus on 
the ways to keep us safe for the future, so that


when the next general is testifying before the Armed Services Committee 
and that general is asked: Is America safer, we can join together and 
say yes.