---
---

# IRAQ
## `895f85881a0d08950c49794fd7e60cd1`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I am very concerned that the continuing 
resolution does not adequately support our Armed Forces at this 
critical time. Our military commanders tell me that the resolution 
passed by the House of Representatives could deprive our bases of $3.1 
billion of crucial Federal funding. I am particularly concerned about 
the nearly $375 million of BRAC funding that is supposed to go to Fort 
Leavenworth and Fort Riley. As a member of the Military Construction 
Appropriations Subcommittee, I support the Hutchinson-Inhofe amendment 
to reinstate the $3.1 billion for BRAC that will be lost in the current 
version of the continuing resolution.

Several of Fort Riley and Fort Leavenworth's projects are in jeopardy 
unless full funding is restored, including: the Regional Correctional 
Facility at Fort Leavenworth, the Battle Command Training Center at 
Fort Riley, the Child Development Center at Fort Riley, Fort Riley's 
Consolidated Soldier and Family Medical Clinic, Fort Riley runway 
improvements, phase I of the Combat Aviation Brigade complex, and the 
increment 2 of the First Division headquarters construction.

Unless we correct this problem in the continuing resolution, it will 
have a domino effect on future BRAC funding, which will be detrimental 
to our operations around the world. Fort Riley is a good example. First 
Division soldiers from Fort Riley continue to deploy in support of 
Operation Iraqi Freedom. Fort Riley trains the soldiers who will embed 
with both Afghan and Iraqi forces. Right now, Fort Riley has enough 
soldiers deployed overseas that it can manage base operations. But as 
one Fort Riley official put it a few weeks ago, world peace is Fort 
Riley's worst nightmare: if all the soldiers come home, there is no 
place to house them all. We need to fund BRAC priorities to stay on 
schedule and make sure the appropriations process in the Senate does 
not adversely affect the ability of our Armed Forces to execute their 
missions.

We cannot afford to play games with military construction funds. We 
worked hard last year to write good legislation that funded key 
priorities. That funding should be restored. All of us come to the 
floor pledging to support the men and women of our Armed Forces. Our 
promises of support will ring hollow if we fail to turn our words into 
action. We need to restore full funding to military construction in 
this continuing resolution.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.