---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `8977da5e27d3f6eb5100c8e8c2de2b1c`
`Mr. OBAMA — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. OBAMA. Madam President, I will vote today to bring up a 
resolution for debate that would disapprove of the President's policy 
of escalation in Iraq.

Last November, the American people sent a clear message to their 
representatives in Washington. With their votes, the American people 
said they wanted a change in direction with regard to the war in Iraq. 
Unfortunately, the White House--and its defenders in the Senate--has 
ignored that will and fought to keep this day from happening for as 
long as they could.

We may fail to get the required number of votes to debate this very 
simple resolution. And even if we do get enough votes, I realize that 
this resolution may not force a single change to this country's policy 
in Iraq. I realize that it may not bring the Shiites and Sunnis closer 
to peace, nor will it bring a single soldier home from this war.

But for the first time in the 4 years of this long, hard war, 
Democrats and Republicans can join together to express the will of the 
people who sent us here.

That is why today's vote must be only the beginning, and not the end, 
of a long-overdue debate on how we plan to exit Iraq and refocus our 
efforts on the wider war against terror. If more stalemate and inaction 
follow this resolution, it truly will be a meaningless gesture. It is 
now the responsibility of every Member of this body to put forth a plan 
that offers the best path to peace among the Iraqis so that our brave 
soldiers can finally come home.

Recently, I introduced the Iraq De-Escalation Act of 2007. This plan 
would not only place a cap on the number of troops in Iraq and stop the 
escalation, it would more importantly begin a phased redeployment of 
U.S. forces with the goal of removing of all U.S. combat forces from 
Iraq by March 31, 2008--consistent with the expectations of the 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group that the President has so assiduously 
ignored.

The redeployment of troops to the United States, Afghanistan, and 
elsewhere in the region would begin no later than May 1 of this year, 
toward the end of the timeframe I first proposed in a speech more than 
2 months ago. In a civil war where no military solution exists, this 
redeployment remains our best leverage to pressure the Iraqi Government 
to achieve the political settlement between its warring factions that 
can slow the bloodshed and promote stability.

My plan allows for a limited number of U.S. troops to remain as basic 
force protection, to engage in counterterrorism, and to continue the 
training of Iraqi security forces.

And if the Iraqis are successful in meeting the 13 benchmarks for 
progress laid out by the Bush administration itself, this plan also 
allows for the temporary suspension of the redeployment, provided 
Congress agrees that the benchmarks have actually been met and that the 
suspension is in the national security interest of the United States.

The U.S. military has performed valiantly and brilliantly in Iraq. 
Our troops have done all that we have asked them to do and more. But no 
amount of American soldiers can solve the political differences at the 
heart of somebody else's civil war, nor settle the grievances in the 
hearts of the combatants.

It is my firm belief that the responsible course of action for the 
United States, for Iraq, and for our troops is to oppose this reckless 
escalation and to pursue a new policy. This policy that I have laid out 
is consistent with what I have advocated for well over a year, with 
many of the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, and 
with what the American people demanded in the November election.

When it comes to the war in Iraq, the time for promises and 
assurances, for waiting and patience, is over. Too


many lives have been lost and too many billions have been spent for us 
to trust the President on another tried and failed policy opposed by 
generals and experts, Democrats and Republicans, Americans and many of 
the Iraqis themselves.

It is time for us to fundamentally change our policy.

It is time to give Iraqis their country back.

And it is time to refocus America's efforts on the challenges we face 
at home and the wider struggle against terror yet to be won.