---
---

# IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11 COMMISSION ACT OF 2007
## `8989926660dbb89a669e0cd15d2b1ae1`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 26 July 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Oklahoma. The 
truth is the Senate is a better place because he is here, he is 
persistent, he is demanding, he spends a lot of time actually reading 
bills, and he brings his opinions to the table and to the floor. 
Although we may be in disagreement on some of the particulars, he cares 
enough about all this to not only work through the details but to stay 
here after midnight, after a busy week, to make these points. So I 
thank him for all that.

I thank him for the contributions he made along the way to the bill 
as a member of our committee. I am going to put some statements in the 
record to respond to some of the points in more detail that Senator 
Coburn made, but I do wish to say that Senator Collins and I worked 
very hard, both in the committee and then particularly in the 
conference committee, to take the State homeland security grants and 
make sure that they were allocated, a much greater percentage of them 
was allocated based on risk.

We heard the concerns. So the conference report allocates the 
overwhelming share of State funding based on the risk the State faces 
from terrorism. All States initially will be guaranteed a minimum of 
0.375 percent. The number was up to .75 percent earlier on. This will 
be reduced to .35 percent over the course of the 5 years.

The reason for having any minimum is twofold: One is that, 
unfortunately, the enemy we face--Islamist extremist terrorism--has a 
higher probability of


attacking, at least by our experience in this country, very visible 
targets, such as the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. But the truth 
is the whole country is, unfortunately, vulnerable to their attacks. As 
we have seen in other countries, they attack trains, they are prepared 
to blow up themselves with bombs in the middle of shopping areas, in 
crowds, et cetera. So there is some reason to have a minimum amount for 
every State in the country.

Secondly, homeland security generally--and we particularly get into 
this in one of the other grant programs that I will talk about in a 
minute--deals not only with protecting the States from terrorism but 
from all hazards, including natural disasters. The Department of 
Homeland Security is an all-hazard agency now, including within it, 
most particularly, FEMA, the Coast Guard, and other agencies that are 
involved when you think more in terms of protection from natural 
disasters. So I think we have made some progress there, and that is the 
reason why we have done what we have done.

There is a separate program, which perhaps is the one Senator Coburn 
was referring to, the urban area security initiative. That is allocated 
entirely based on risk. We also create, for the first time, two 
programs that are intended to be all-hazard programs and to support law 
enforcement and emergency response around the country. The first is an 
Emergency Management Grant Program and the second, which we talked 
about earlier, is the interoperability of communications.

So I think, on balance, when it comes to terrorism, we have allocated 
much more now than before based on risk. Yet we also, I think quite 
appropriately, provide something for areas all around the country to 
deal with all the other hazards, natural disasters, that can and have 
struck every section of the country.

There is also a substantial increase in funding that is authorized by 
this bill. Of course, ultimately, it has to be appropriated, but this 
is a new challenge, this terrible challenge of terrorism, against an 
unconventional brutal enemy, which, as someone other than myself has 
said, hates us more than they love their own lives. They hate us more 
than they love their own lives, so that they are prepared to kill 
themselves to express their hatred of us. Of course, these are not 
conventional armies fighting our conventional Army on a field of battle 
or at sea or in the air.


These are enemies who strike from the shadows and intend to strike at 
unprotected civilians--at innocents. So this requires a substantial 
commitment by our country to raise our defenses. I think it is part of 
the reason, along with the reform of our intelligence apparatus, that 
we have not, thank God, suffered another terrorist attack since 9/11. 
Part of it, of course, is good fortune, or, if you are so inclined, by 
the grace of God. But I do believe what we have invested is an 
important part of it.

I myself have said more than once that I thought after 9/11, entering 
this new era of both homeland security needs and the need to involve 
our military in seeking out for the purpose of capturing or killing 
these terrorists, then being engaged in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, 
that we would have done better if we had considered a special tax and 
one in which we asked everybody to pay to meet the additional expenses 
brought on by this war that Islamist terrorists started against us, so 
we would not be facing the increasing long-term debt that Senator 
Coburn is quite right that our children are going to have to pay.

What I am saying is the money we have authorized to be spent here is 
important. We have the best defense--the best military in the world. 
Part of the reason we do is because we are spending money on it, an 
enormous amount of money. We will continue to have the best homeland 
security and homeland defense if we do the same.

One of the great contributions Senator Coburn makes is to be very 
persistent at making sure we don't waste taxpayer money, and he has 
made a contribution to this bill. There are many provisions in the bill 
that improve the oversight of the spending of homeland security funds, 
and in my statement I make clear our gratitude to Senator Coburn and 
his staff for all that they did to strengthen the auditing provisions 
of this bill.

I will say, finally, on the question of congressional oversight of 
intelligence and the declassification of the top line of the national 
intelligence budget, this is a direct recommendation of the 9/11 
Commission. It doesn't make it sacrosanct, but it does give it some 
force. They argued that the specifics of the intelligence 
appropriations should remain classified, as they do in this proposal, 
but that the top line ought to be publicized to combat the secrecy and 
complexity the Commission had commented on earlier. That is what we 
intend to do.

But we are mindful of the concerns that Senator Coburn and others 
have had. We have spent some time discussing this with members of the 
administration, and this is compromise language. The bill contains this 
provision, which is that the President would be required to disclose 
the total appropriated amount for the national intelligence budget for 
this year and the coming year, after which the President may waive this 
requirement by sending to Congress a notification explaining the 
reasons for this waiver.

Listen, I think most people, including most people in the media, know 
what the top line budget for intelligence is. But we are now bringing 
it out and giving the President the opportunity to stop the disclosure 
if he determines it is in the national security interest in future 
years, for various reasons, to do that.

The conference report addresses the oftentimes contentious issue of 
homeland security grants. It may not make everyone happy, but it 
represents a good and fair compromise and will do much to improve the 
process by which these grants are distributed and used.

The conference report allocates a greater share--indeed the 
overwhelming share--of state funding based on the risk a state faces 
from terrorism, yet still ensures that each state will get money to 
meet its basic needs in preparing for acts of terrorism. All States 
will initially be guaranteed a minimum of 0.375 percent of funds; this 
will be reduced to 0.35 percent over the course of 5 years.

Urban Area Security Initiative, UASI, grants will be allocated 
entirely based on risk of terrorism. There will be a two-step process 
for selecting UASI cities. In the first stage, DHS will do a risk 
assessment of the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the country, and 
each of these areas will be permitted to submit information to the 
Department concerning the risks faced by that area--thus opening up a 
dialogue with cities and bringing light to a process that has largely 
taken place behind the scenes. After doing this initial assessment, the 
FEMA Administrator will then have the discretion--as he does now--to 
select those high-risk urban areas eligible to apply for UASI grants.

The conference report also reverses the recent disturbing downward 
trend in funding for these essential grant programs. It would authorize 
$1.8 billion for the State Homeland Security Grant Program, SHSGP, and 
UASI program in fiscal year 2008--our principal antiterrorism grants to 
first responders--and increase this over the next 5 years to $2.25 
billion. Also, as a complement to this, the conference report would 
ensure that states have increased funds available for key all-hazards 
grant programs, including the emergency management performance grants 
and dedicated grants for communications interoperability. These 
programs help ensure that all States have basic preparedness 
capabilities for all disasters, whether natural or man-made.

The conference report would also for the first time specifically 
authorize State and urban area grants, and provide legislative 
guidelines for the programs, including permissible uses.

Finally, the conference report would provide a whole series of 
oversight measures to ensure that funds were being spent effectively 
and appropriately to achieve preparedness, and not wasted.

The 9/11 Commission report said:




 To combat the secrecy and complexity we have described, the 


 overall amounts of money being appropriated for national 


 intelligence and to its component agencies should no longer 


 be kept secret. Congress should pass a separate 


 appropriations act for intelligence, defending the broad 


 allocation of how these tens of billions of dollars have been 


 assigned among the varieties of intelligence work.





The Commission went on to say that:




 The specifics of the intelligence appropriation would 


 remain classified, as they are today. Opponents of 


 declassification argue that America's enemies could learn 


 about intelligence capabilities by tracking the top-line 


 appropriations figure. Yet the top-line figure by itself 


 provides little insight into U.S. intelligence sources and 


 methods.


A provision was passed to declassify the top-line of the National 
Intelligence Budget was passed by the Senate as part of the 
Intelligence Reform Act in 2004 but removed in conference.

In December 2005, the 9/11 Public Discourse Project, an independent 
organization led by the 9/11 Commission members, issued a grade of 
''F'' on the implementation of this recommendation, writing that 
''Congress cannot do robust intelligence oversight when funding for 
intelligence programs is buried within the defense budget. 
Declassifying the overall intelligence budget would allow for a 
separate annual intelligence appropriations bill, so that the Congress 
can judge better how intelligence funds are being spent.''

The final bill contains a compromise that we have worked closely with 
the White House to craft, one which finally addresses this important 9/
11 Commission recommendation to disclose the top line of the National 
Intelligence Budget.

The compromise agreement will require the President to disclose the 
total appropriated for the National Intelligence Budget for 2 years--
2007 and 2008--after which the President may waive this requirement by 
sending to Congress a notification explaining the reasons for this 
waiver.

The inclusion of this provision means that this important 
recommendation of the 9/11 Commission will now finally be implemented.

In this bill, we authorize significant additional funds for homeland 
security grants for State and local governments: for State Homeland 
Security Grants, for Urban Area Security Initiative, UASI, grants, for 
Emergency Management Performance Grants, EMPG, for interoperable 
emergency communications, for rail and transit security, in order to 
ensure that our first responders across the Nation are prepared for 
disasters, natural and man-made.

In authorizing these additional funds, we are cognizant that we need 
to spend these funds wisely, in a way that will make our first 
responders most prepared and our nation most secure. For this reason, 
the conference report includes extensive oversight and accountability 
provisions designed to ensure that all grant funds are used as 
effectively as possible and for their intended purposes.

At least every 2 years, DHS is required to conduct a programmatic and 
financial review of each State and urban area receiving grants 
administered by the Department to examine whether grant funds are being 
used properly.

The DHS inspector general is tasked with following up these agency 
reviews by conducting full, in-depth audits of a sample of States and 
urban areas each year, and then report to Congress on his findings, and 
to post the results of the audits on the Internet.

For the Public Safety Interoperable Communications grants that go 
through the Commerce Department and are administered jointly by the 
Commerce Department and DHS, there are separate provisions requiring 
that the Commerce Department inspector general conduct audits of those 
grants.

The conference report also builds on provisions in the Post--Katrina 
Emergency Management Reform Act that we passed last fall by requiring 
that DHS develop and use performance metrics to assess the progress of 
States and urban areas in becoming prepared, and that States and urban 
areas test their performance against these metrics through exercises.

All states are required to report quarterly on their expenditures and 
annually on their level of preparedness.

Finally, The FEMA Administrator is also required to provide to 
Congress annually an evaluation of the efficacy of the Department's 
homeland security grants have contributed to State and local 
governments in meeting their target levels of preparedness and have led 
to the overall reduction of risk.

From the beginning, we have been aware of Senator Coburn's strongly 
held view that there be adequate oversight and auditing of homeland 
security grants, and his support for the provisions to this effect in 
the Senate bill--provisions that were not part of the House bill. 
Senator Collins' and I, and our staffs, have fought for the Senate 
auditing provisions in conference, in the face of a number of 
objections and concerns raised by House staff from various committees. 
And we have been successful in retaining in the conference report what 
we believe are very strong provisions to ensure accountability for 
homeland security grant funds.

Working with Senator Coburn, we were able to retain what I believe 
are very significant provisions to ensure the appropriate and effective 
use of homeland security dollars.