---
---

# TRIBUTE TO VERMONT FALLEN
## `89907d8e95747ec804e282d6b60d1416`
`Mr. LEAHY — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, words and numbers are often used on this 
floor to describe the ongoing war in Iraq. In recent weeks, we have 
found ourselves debating the policy decisions that created the current 
climate in Iraq, the current strategy in Baghdad, and the policy shifts 
that need to occur to bring our men and women home. We frequently cite 
the fast-rising numbers of military fatalities and injuries and the 
growing number of innocent civilian deaths.

A central element of this picture and of this discussion should 
always be the sacrifices and the suffering of the families at home. 
Vermont, small State that we are, bears the burden of the highest 
fatality rate in the country, with more deaths per capita in Iraq than 
any other State. These losses have left dozens of families searching 
for comfort as they mourn their loved ones.

But in the darkest and saddest of times, a new Vermont family has 
emerged, brought together by the efforts of students at Norwich 
University, the Nation's oldest military college, which calls 
Northfield, VT, its home. ''Vermont Fallen,'' developed and produced by 
students at Norwich for a media course, profiles the journeys of 
families from across our State as they grieve the loss of their sons, 
fathers, husbands, and friends. Many of these families, brought 
together by community screenings of the documentary, now are able to 
turn to each other for comfort.

With this remarkable project, these students from Norwich 
University--many of whom have friends, family, and colleagues serving 
on the front lines of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan--have given a 
great gift to these families and to us all. They have honored in this 
special way those from Vermont who have fallen and they have offered a 
glimpse into the searing and highly personal grief and mourning that 
have touched thousands of American families and scores of American 
communities, across Vermont and across the country. They have produced 
a tribute that speaks directly to each human heart.

NBC's ''Today'' recently aired a segment about ''Vermont Fallen.'' I 
ask unanimous consent that the transcript be printed in the Record.