# IRAQ
## `89942e2b93d6e1354ad0f0aa6133a063`
`Mr. BOND â€” 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, here we go again. We have had an effort to 
take another vote on whether we should pull out of Iraq. Apparently, it 
is based on public opinion polls. Some think it would be popular, and 
certainly the moveon.org and Code Pink wing of the majority party would 
be very happy if we could have crammed down a measure to make a 
substantial change in our policy without even allowing an amendment. It 
is absolutely unacceptable on its face.

I object not only on behalf of myself and many of my colleagues but 
for the brave men and women from America who volunteered to go into 
harm's way for our security and to promote security in the world. 
Retreat and defeat may be politically popular with some, but this kind 
of poison pill does great injustice to what our American volunteers 
have done. From the people on the ground, when we first started 
considering these retreat-and-defeat measures, I heard a very heartfelt 
plea: We have made too many contributions and made too many sacrifices 
to see it all go for naught because of political maneuvering on Capitol 
Hill. That comes from people who have seen their comrades fall in 
battle.

This year alone, the Democrats have attempted at least nine times to 
force the President to change the military strategy and tactics in 
Iraq, on the misbegotten notion that somehow we, in this comfortable 
setting of Congress, can make better military, tactical, and strategic 
decisions than our commanders on the ground. I find that deplorable.

It used to be the tradition of this body, of America, that we 
supported our troops when they were going in harm's way. Now some are 
doing everything possible to undermine their efforts. Nine times they 
have tried to change the policy. After 77 of us voted to send troops 
into Iraq because we knew it was a dangerous place, we found out--by 
the Iraq Survey Group--that it was even more dangerous.

Make no mistake, while some in this body may not think Iraq is 
important, two people whose activities I try to follow fairly closely 
in intelligence, Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, his No. 2 man, 
think Iraq should be the headquarters of their caliphate, the 
headquarters of their vicious terrorist empire that wants to subjugate 
the region and threaten the United States.

Now, however, there is a key difference from earlier because we are 
seeing dramatic improvements in the security situation in Iraq, in 
particular in Al Anbar Province, which a year ago was a deadly place, a 
deadly place into which American troops could only go under heavy fire.

My son and several thousand marines are coming home because they have 
succeeded. Yes, there is a strategy for drawing down our troops. The 
President has announced it. It is called ''return on success.'' We 
bring the troops back when they have succeeded in their mission.

In Iraq, in Al Anbar, I have heard from people who are imbedded with 
Iraqi security forces that times have changed. There now are Iraqi 
citizen groups, citizen watch groups, who look for IEDs, who will 
identify foreign terrorists--al-Qaida types--who come into the area, 
and who will point out factories designed to build explosive vehicles. 
They turn that over to the Iraqi police in the area, and they clean it 
up. I have heard from a guy on the ground who is responsible for 
maintaining stability and security from the terrorists that the marines 
were no longer needed. So they are coming back. This is being 
replicated in places throughout Iraq.

Have we finished? We have not finished the job. There are still other 
areas, but it means we are succeeding. Iraqis are going about their 
normal business. Unfortunately for our fighting men and women and the 
Iraqi people who put their trust in us to see this mission through, too 
rarely are their successes being reported. They are ignored, although 
the New York Times, on the back page, I think, this past weekend, 
pointed out that we had routed al-Qaida in Iraq. Surprise. That wasn't 
on the front page, did not make headlines, because it has indicated a 
major change. Have you heard much about the success of General Petraeus 
and the counterinsurgency strategy after he testified on Capitol Hill? 
If you are like most Americans, the answer is you have heard very 
little, because it has fundamentally changed. While the media has 
always been quick to report bombings and failures in Iraq, it is simply 
not providing all of the good news.

They have been remarkably successful in 2007 in reducing violence. 
Yes, with the surge, with the new strategy, there was violence. But, 
according to General Odierno, the operational commander of U.S. forces 
in Iraq, enemy attacks are now at their lowest level since January 2006 
and continue to drop. There has been a 60-percent decrease in IED 
attacks.

The reduction in violence is partly as a result of the presence of 
additional American forces and their adoption of the sound 
counterinsurgency strategy--go in and clear an area, work with the 
Iraqi security forces, and help them build an economy, a neighborhood, 
a safe place. It is also because the leaders on the ground in Iraq, the 
Sunni sheiks, have said--they have seen what continued terrorist 
attacks do to their country, to their people. The most frequent victims 
are Iraqis, good Muslim Iraqis who are being killed by the terrorists. 
They want to cooperate with us, and they are building, from the ground 
up, a stable, reliable, peaceful control over the area with the Iraqi 
security forces. Yes, some of them fought against us in the past, but 
they are now on our side because we are on their side and we are 
helping them. And when they take over, we will move back.

Now, I am fully aware of and concerned about the lack of political 
reconciliation. But, again, from boots on the ground, I hear: How do 
you expect them to establish a perfect democracy when this country is 
still not secure? Our goal in Iraq must be to work with the Iraqis, the 
Iraqi security forces, and responsible leaders to establish relative 
peace and security in the area.



What would happen if we withdrew precipitously for a political goal? 
We learned in an open hearing of the Intelligence Committee in January 
that if we pull out before we have stabilized this area and left in 
place Iraqi security forces, there would be chaos, and three bad things 
would happen: No. 1, there would be greatly increased violence among 
Sunni and Shia; there would likely be intervention by other states 
coming into Iraq to protect their coreligionists, potentially a civil 
war spreading into a region-wide war in a vital security and energy 
part of the world; but most dangerous for United States, and this is 
something my colleagues who want to cut and run seem to refuse to 
acknowledge, is that al-Qaida would be able to establish a safe haven. 
Yes, they have been driven off to the hills, the mountainous regions 
somewhere in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but they cannot mobilize and 
exercise their command and control. If they had a place for command and 
control, had access to the oil riches of Iraq to fund their deeds, we 
would be significantly at greater risk to weapons of mass destruction 
attacks by terrorist groups funded and supported by al-Qaida.

We need to be realistic in defining what reconciliation is. It is a 
long process. To this day, for example, not all outstanding political 
tensions have been reconciled in Northern Ireland, in Bosnia, or 
Kosovo. Yet the civil wars and the terrorist campaigns that once 
threatened to engulf those areas have ended, and competing factions are 
pursuing their agendas primarily by peaceful political means.


Our men and women in uniform are fighting in Iraq to bring violence 
under control, to destroy al-Qaida, to drive out destabilizing Iranian 
meddling, and to establish a relatively stable and secure structure in 
Iraq, and they are making progress to those goals.

Getting a perfect democracy--we thought we had a perfect Jeffersonian 
democracy; then we had to have a Lincolnian republic after the Civil 
War. We are continuing to see the democracy. While it is the best of 
all the other bad situations, it is not perfect and does not work in a 
clear upward path; it takes time. And now we are seeing the questions 
being worked out at the local level on revenue sharing, oil revenue 
sharing. But to push a retreat-and-defeat, a delay-and-deny battle for 
the funds for our troops on the ground is unthinkable. This unanimous 
consent agreement to which I objected would be the ultimate cut and 
run: declare defeat, and hope to be rewarded in 2008 at the polls--a 
very regrettable effort by our colleagues on the other side.

The 2008 Defense appropriations bill recently passed by Congress 
includes no funding for our current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and the global war on terror. For 3 years prior to this, we included 
emergency funding for the regular Defense appropriations bill to cover 
the cost of military operations until a full supplemental could be 
adopted. We are now seeing, coming over from the House, a pittance of 
what is needed, encapsulated in all kinds of restrictions that tie the 
hands of the troops on the ground and put unreasonable restrictions on 
them that are likely to cause much greater danger to American 
personnel, military and civilian, over there. What we need to provide--
and I hope we will be able to put an alternative emergency funding bill 
on the floor--are funds for force protection initiatives, body armor, 
helmets, ballistic eye protection, even knee and elbow pads, flares, 
and armor. The 2008 Defense spending bill did include funding for 
MRAPs, but why did the Democrats insist on omitting other critical 
items?

Now that DOD will be forced to continue robbing Peter to pay Paul in 
order to fund operations, it has a tremendously negative impact, not 
only on the way we conduct the war but how the Department of Defense 
operates. Important equipment reset and other procurement programs have 
to be slowed down. It will impact the availability of equipment, 
including critical equipment for the National Guard needed to respond 
to domestic emergencies. Without this funding, the Pentagon is forced 
to divert money from their regular accounts to fund overseas 
operations, about $13 billion a month.

I have a letter that has just been sent by Gordon England. He has 
pointed out what this would mean to the Defense Department. It means, 
among other things, the Deputy Secretary of Defense said, they will 
have no choice but to deplete appropriations accounts, and it will 
result in a profoundly negative impact on the defense civilian working 
force, depot maintenance, base operations, and training activities, and 
within a few weeks they will be required by law to issue notices of 
termination to civilian employees.

In addition, a lack of any funding for the Iraqi security forces and 
the Afghanistan national security forces directly undermines the 
ability of the United States to continue training and equipping Iraqi 
and Afghanistan troops who are needed to take over. This makes 
absolutely no sense in a time of war. We deny the needed funding that 
will keep our troops--not only keep the troops in the field but support 
those who are working to assure that we can turn over the 
responsibility to them.

This is absolutely the wrong message to send to our deployed troops. 
We must provide emergency funding without political timetables to win 
votes at home but undermine our troops.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a letter from 
Deputy Secretary of Defense England to House Defense Subcommittee 
chairman John Murtha and an article in today's Washington Times called 
''War Funds Under Attack.''