# REPEAL THE DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL POLICY
## `8999d4fba76fd388d4d6e906eed25e95`
`Mr. QUIGLEY — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. QUIGLEY. Thank you. I want to thank the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania for his service as well.

Let me briefly try to put a human face on this. When you don't put a 
person on it, you can imagine it is hard to really understand the human 
cost with such a policy. I will give you two.

First of all, Lee Reinhart, 4 years after graduating from high school 
and after spending time at both public and private universities, Lee 
Reinhart decided he had simply not found his calling. So in September 
of 1995, Lee surprised his friends and family by joining the Navy. Lee 
served on board the USS Cowpens as an operations specialist working his 
way up to becoming a second class petty officer in the Combat 
Information Center, tracking both surface and air contacts.

While serving, Lee earned several medals and ribbons, including the 
Navy-Marine Corps Achievement Medal. Lee's tour of duty in the Navy was 
completed in August of 1999. After time in the Reserves and the events 
of September 11, 2001, Lee wanted to return to active duty, this time 
to make it a career. This time he chose the Coast Guard. But soon after 
joining, Lee became a target and was being investigated. Lee was given 
two choices: he could admit he was gay and be allowed to leave the 
military peacefully, or he could stay and undergo an investigation with 
the same end result, discharge.

The point of this story is obvious. Lee had completed a full 
enlistment in one branch and earned an honorable discharge, but while 
serving in another branch, the uneven and inequitable implementation of 
Don't Ask, Don't Tell ended his career.

The implementation of Don't Ask, Don't Tell is uneven and subject to 
individuals such as Lee to the whims and prejudices of individuals.

Second Lieutenant Sandy Tsao, like the President of the United 
States, our dear friend Sandy is a fellow former South Sider, this time 
from the Bridgeport neighborhood. Sunday, February 8, 2009, marked the 
1-year service anniversary of her active duty full-time service to her 
country. Shortly thereafter she received an honorable discharge because 
of her orientation.

Ms. Tsao wrote a letter to the President of the United States. She 
writes: ''I am a second lieutenant currently serving in the U.S. Army. 
In addition to being an officer, I am a Christian, a woman and a 
Chinese American. I am proud of all these identities. Lastly, I am also 
a lesbian. On September 21, 2007, I was appointed as an Army officer. 
In the oath of office, I swore that I would support and defend the 
Constitution of the United States against all enemies foreign and 
domestic. Unfortunately, I will not be able to fulfill this oath 
because the current policy regarding sexual orientation contradicts my 
values as a moral human being.

Today is the Chinese New Year. I hope it will bring good fortune to 
you in your newly elect office. Today is also the day I inform my chain 
of command of who I am. One of the seven Army values is integrity. It 
means choosing to do the right thing no matter what the consequences 
may be. As a Christian, this also means living an honest life. I cannot 
live up to these values unless my workplace 'provides an environment 
free of unlawful discrimination and offensive behavior.' '' That is an 
excerpt from the U.S. Army's Equal Opportunity Branch.

''We have the best military in the world, and I would like to 
continue to be part of it. My mother can tell you it is my dream to 
serve our country. I have fought and overcome many barriers to arrive 
at the point I am today. This is the only battle I fear I may lose. 
Even if it is too late for me, I do hope, Mr. President, you will help 
us win the war against prejudice so that future generations will 
continue to work together and fight for our freedoms regardless of 
race, color, gender, religion, national origin or sexual orientation.''


For 24-year-old Sandy Tsao, we are too late. For the many other gay 
and lesbian servicemembers, our repeal may just be in time.

In my mind, having gone to Iraq, I looked at the brave men and women 
willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for our country, many of them as 
young as my own children. And I will tell you what I didn't see. I 
didn't see those as black or white, men or women, straight or gay, 
Democrats or Republicans. I saw Americans. I saw warriors. Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell is a policy so fundamentally hypocritical that it encourages 
citizens to put their lives on the line to serve a country built on 
freedom and democracy as long as they lie about who they are.



Lastly, I'm reminded always at times like this what President Lincoln 
said at Gettysburg. Now, it has been interpreted many ways, but I would 
like to think that the essence of what President Lincoln was getting to 
was, 87 years ago we created a country based on certain principles, the 
most important of which is that all of us are created equal.

What he was saying in Gettysburg is, Did we really mean it? Did we 
really mean everyone? And I ask my colleagues to think about that, 
especially in time of two wars, with storm clouds gathering over North 
Korea and Iran. Did we really mean it? Do we really mean it today, that 
all of us are created equal? I think we all are warriors, at least that 
much. Thank you.

PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. I thank the gentleman from 
Illinois. Those personal stories of our heroes that wrote to you are 
very powerful and very moving. I will tell you since I took over the 
leadership of repealing Don't Ask, Don't Tell by enacting the Military 
Readiness Enhancement Act, I have gotten letters from all over the 
country and from overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan. And one of those 
letters that touched my heart and frankly broke my heart was from a 
soldier in Afghanistan. See, when I served in Iraq 6 years ago, I had 
19 of my fellow paratroopers in the 82nd Airborne Division that gave 
the ultimate sacrifice. But one of them committed suicide. One of those 
19 never made it home to see his family again. But this letter broke my 
heart because, and you will see, this hero was dealing with the Don't 
Ask, Don't Tell policy.

He writes: ''Sir, as you know, military spouses and other family 
members are important parts of the larger 'team' that is essential for 
our national defense. But such support is fundamentally closed off to 
the partners of gay servicemembers, even though these partners may be 
making the exact the same sacrifices as their straight counterparts.

''And it's even worse. Gay servicemembers and their committed 
partners have to worry that an overheard phone call, an intercepted 
email, or other type of compromised private communication could lead to 
a humiliating, career-destroying investigation. This is no way to treat 
American patriots.

''I write of these matters from personal experience. When the 9/11 
terrorist attacks occurred, I was in a serious long-term relationship. 
The extensive active duty I did after 9/11 put a serious strain on this 
relationship. The relationship fell completely apart during my first 
deployment to Afghanistan in 2003.

''One of the big risk factors contributing to soldier suicides is the 
breakup of serious relationships. This is exactly what I experienced, 
and in the context of a combat zone deployment. I can still vividly 
remember sitting alone in Afghanistan, cradling my government-issued 
pistol in my hands and fighting the urge to blow my own brains out.

''What made that personal struggle in Afghanistan particularly 
difficult was the isolation that was imposed on me as a consequence of 
the Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy. A straight soldier in a similar state 
of crisis could go to his commander, his first sergeant, or his 'battle 
buddy' for support. But if I as a gay soldier had gone to my commander 
with the details of my situation, he would have been obligated to start 
the process of kicking me out of the Army.

''The Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy is wrong. I say this not just as 
an individual soldier, but also as someone with extensive experience as 
both a platoon leader and company commander. When I have been in such 
leadership positions, I have had straight soldiers share with me some 
of the most shockingly intimate details about their personal lives. I 
was glad that these straight soldiers put their trust in me, because I 
was able to offer each one the counsel or moral support that he or she 
needed at that time.



''Gay soldiers should also have that right to go to a commander, a 
first sergeant, or a battle buddy and not have to the worry about the 
ramifications of the Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy. The Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell policy shackles the hands of leaders like me. It prevents us from 
giving all of our troops the supportive leadership they deserve. The 
Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy throws up walls between battle buddies. It 
is an ugly stain on our national honor.''

I now yield to the new freshman, the gentlewoman from the great State 
of Maine (Ms. Pingree).