# CIVICS CLASS VOICES CONCERNS ABOUT IRAQ
## `899caa664530f475306d8cb090587a13`
`Mr. RAHALL — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. RAHALL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak on behalf of the 
growing sentiment about the war in Iraq felt by not only the youth of 
my district, but by the youth of the Nation as well.

Recently, a senior Civics Class from Boone County in my district 
wrote to me expressing their concerns for the war and the effects this 
war has had on the homefront. These students represent a generation 
that will have to deal with the direct consequences of the actions we 
take today.

I'd like to read to you a portion of that letter.




 Our primary concern is the war in Iraq. We are in favor of 


 fighting terrorism, but America went into Iraq under false 


 pretenses. We now know that Iraq had nothing to do with the 


 attack on 9/11. We believe that the reason we went to Iraq is 


 to gain a stronghold on the oil fields. We are trading blood 


 for oil. We have a strong feeling that American should have 


 never invaded Iraq because our presence there is breeding 


 more terrorism around the world. We are giving terrorists a 


 common foe to retaliate against. We are incubating more 


 hatred from other terrorists and now giving them a reason to 


 unite.

I not only share the students' concerns about the war in Iraq, but I 
also share their concerns about the effect our involvement in the 
region has had here at home. The men and women of our military have 
gone above and beyond the call when it comes to serving their country 
in Iraq, but more is still being asked of them. While many of our 
troops are serving their third tour of duty, the President continues to 
move forward with his plan to send more troops into the region.

These students also point out that as this added strain on our 
military families continues, the strain on our domestic budget grows 
every day.

They go on to write, ''Another of our concerns is the way our economy 
is being affected by the war. Just think of what $2.9 trillion dollars 
could have done for this Nation. Oil companies are making an annual 
profit of $39.5 billion dollars while many people in this Nation suffer 
in poverty. They are suffering because in today's society one cannot 
support a family on the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour. The money spent 
on the Iraq war has put a tremendous amount of pressure on the 
recipients of Social Security. Many older Americans have to choose 
between medication and food because they cannot afford both. Add to 
this the fact that thousand of Americans still do not have any health 
insurance.''

I believe that no American should have to be burdened with such 
consequences. We must find a way to balance the cost of this war with 
the cost that families are continuing to pay here at home.

I applaud these young men for speaking up. They represent the voice 
of the majority of Americans who want us out of Iraq, and I want them 
to know that concerns have been heard. Rest assured, I will continue to 
do all that I can to make sure that their voices never go silent and 
that we continue to strive for the best course of action in Iraq and 
for our Nation here at home.
