# TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `89a12a7b29c8a6bacc002bca76b422ff`
`Mr. REID — 4 December 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, the American people are about to see what 
the Democrats have tried to do all year and what we have been prevented 
from doing all year because of the obstructionism of the Republicans.

President Bush is out giving speeches that we have to do AMT. We have 
to take care of that. He is giving speeches all over the country. He 
gives press conferences talking about why we aren't doing AMT. 
Everybody watch. Here is why we aren't doing AMT. They do not want us 
to do it. They want, at the end of the year, to say: Look, the 
Democrats are not doing AMT. Everyone should understand we are not 
doing it because the Republicans, all 49 of them, backed by President 
Bush, don't want us to do it.

Mr. President, we have offered them a proposal. We will have a vote 
with a 60-vote margin on them all--on the bill the House has passed. 
The bill has passed. The bill passed by the House fully funds AMT. They 
won't let us vote on that. So I say: OK, let's vote on Senator Lott's 
proposal, which just eliminates AMT. And then I say: Let's work on the 
proposal we have from the Finance Committee that has come from Senator 
Baucus and Senator Grassley which has some extenders in it that we need 
to complete this year and then doesn't pay for the AMT. The Republicans 
don't want the AMT paid for. How much more fair could we be? We are 
giving them a vote on virtually everything dealing with AMT. But, no, 
they won't do that. It is the way it has been going all year long. We 
can't do the farm bill. We can't do anything around here, Mr. 
President. That is why we have had to file cloture 56 times. They have 
objected even to bills they agree with just to eat up time around here.

So I am not going to ask consent to move, as we have previously. I 
gave the Republican leader a proposal earlier today, as I have in the 
past, to do just as I have outlined, covering every possible facet of 
AMT--60 votes on all of them. But, no, no votes on any of them. So now 
I am left with no alternative but to file cloture on the only measure 
dealing with AMT that is now before this body.

For the life of me, I don't understand what they are trying to 
accomplish. What I have heard recently, in the last hour or so, is that 
now what they want to do is--we have certain tax provisions that are 
expiring in 2011--they want to vote on those. Now, that is 3 or 4 years 
away, and we have something that is expiring in a matter of weeks. How 
do those things tie together? They do not.

This is an effort to thwart the progress of our slim majority, 51 to 
49. The Republicans want to go around saying the Democrats aren't doing 
the work of this country. Well, we have a long list of accomplishments 
we are very proud of, but also the American people understand that we 
are agents of change and the Republicans are agents of the status quo. 
That is what this is all about. They want things to stay the way they 
have been, and we want to change things, and not only in Iraq. We don't 
have another longstanding debate on that. We want to change the course 
in Iraq, and we want to change course in the way this country has been 
headed for the last 7 years--into the economic doldrums. And here 
today, what we want to do is finish a part of what we believe is an 
obligation to this country, and that is to make sure that when the 
first of the year rolls around, 19 million Americans don't have a tax 
increase. Everyone within the sound of my voice should understand, if 
that comes to be, it can go to 16th and Pennsylvania Avenue because 
that is what President Bush--he is the man who is pulling the strings 
on the 49 puppets he has here in the Senate. That is too bad for the 
country.


I move to proceed to H.R. 3996. There is a cloture motion at the 
desk. I ask the clerk to report it.
















 Cloture Motion
