---
---

# CELEBRATING 90 YEARS OF UNITED STATES-POLISH DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
## `89a2c30ac65a19e9c14ccd7651f09b15`
`Mr. LIPINSKI — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 
266, celebrating 90 years of diplomatic relations between the United 
States and Poland and recognizing Poland's critical role in advancing 
freedom and democracy across the globe. We must never forget Lech 
Walesa's leadership inside Poland and the Polish pope, Pope John Paul 
II's leadership from the outside which helped lead to the collapse of 
the Soviet Union and the collapse of the wall separating the East and 
West and the freedom that that brought to so many hundreds of millions 
of people around the world.

As a Polish American, as the co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on 
Poland, and as someone who represents part of the most Polish city 
outside of Poland, I'm especially proud to sponsor this resolution. I 
would like to thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) for 
working with me on this resolution and on other important issues.

In addition to marking the 90th anniversary of U.S.-Poland diplomatic 
relations, this year also marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of 
communism in Poland, the 10th anniversary of Poland's accession to 
NATO, and the 5th anniversary of Poland's membership in the European 
Union.

Ninety years ago, there were already 150,000 Polish immigrants in and 
around Chicago. The Polish American Association recently noted that 
following World War II, ''Polish Americans made up a large part of the 
countless families moving into Chicago suburbs, especially southwest 
suburbs such as Oak Lawn and Hickory Hills and western suburbs such as 
Berwyn and Lyons.'' These are all areas I represent, and such 
communities are one reason our countries are so close.



Poland's struggle against communism and its emergence as a free and 
democratic nation are a great chapter in the history of the 20th 
century. In recent years, Poland has strongly supported the United 
States diplomatically and militarily, helping to combat global 
terrorism and contributing troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
resolution and in conveying America's thanks to the Polish people. 
Poland has been one of our Nation's best friends and strongest allies. 
We must honor this relationship and make sure that we work to continue 
it and work to strengthen that relationship with great respect.