---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `89a6e4684bdb3eefe91362621526f57b`
`Mr. OBEY — 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, I would like to again simply walk us 
through what this cut means in specific terms. This amendment would cut 
$257 million from the President's No Child Left Behind education 
flagship program. It would cut $144 million from title I, denying more 
than 40,000 students those title I services. It would cut $113 million 
from Special Education. It would wipe out every single amendment but 
one that was passed on this floor in the last 2 days to enhance Special 
Education, most of those amendments coming from the Republican side of 
the aisle.

It would cut $156 million from Pell Grants. It would cut $300 million 
from the National Institutes of Health for medical research in cancer, 
heart disease, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and the like. It would cut $22 
million from community health centers. Over 100,000 of the uninsured 
would not have access to those services. It would cut $70 million from 
Head Start, $21 million from the Child Care Development Block Grant. It 
would cut $27 million from LIHEAP.

I want to remind you, in LIHEAP, the bill itself only restores half 
of the cut that was made last year by the President and the Congress.

It would cut $97 million from the Social Security Administration. 
Members are climbing all over me saying, ''What are we going to do to 
keep my local Social Security offices open? What are we going to do to 
eliminate the multi-month backlog in people applying for Social 
Security disability?'' I will tell you what they are going to do. This 
will add to it. It will add to the problem.

So with all due respect to the sanctimony that we hear from those who 
belatedly cry about the Federal deficit, I didn't hear them crying 
about the Federal deficit when they voted to spend $600 billion on an 
ill-advised war in Iraq. I don't hear them crying about the fact that 
$57 billion in tax cuts for millionaires adds $57 billion to the 
Federal deficit.

So I just think we need to recognize that I believe the vast majority 
of Americans and I believe substantial portions of both parties in this 
House believe that this bill is responsible in real dollar terms. All 
of the domestic appropriation bills that we will produce and have 
produced this year amount to a 1 percent increase in real terms.

One of the gentlemen over there claimed that these were not cuts. 
Well, let me tell you something. If you appropriate the same amount of 
money this year that you appropriated last year but inflation eats away 
at that and so does population growth, if you don't adjust for 
inflation and population growth, then to each recipient of the services 
under this legislation there is indeed a cut to them. And that is what 
counts. It is the impact on their pocketbook. It is the impact on their 
ability to get help to send their kids to school.

It is an impact on the couple in my District who called 31 dentists 
to try to get some help with their kid who had to have the braces taken 
off his teeth. They couldn't get any of them to take them because the 
dentists wouldn't take Medicaid patients. They didn't have a local 
clinic. So the mother held the kid down while the father took the 
braces off with a pair of pliers.

That wouldn't happen to any child of a Member of Congress. The 
gentleman is smiling about that. I don't think that is anything to 
smile about. I met that woman.