---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `89aad3b22f8bdb4af0ac6950f61cf0b5`
`Mr. SPECTER — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have sought recognition to address the 
amendment offered by Senator Cochran. The Senate finds itself in the 
same position it was in just 2 weeks ago, when it considered an 
amendment offered by the majority leader, Senator Reid. Senate 
amendment No. 643, offered by the Senior Senator from Mississippi, who 
is the ranking member on the Appropriations Committee, would strike the 
language that is essentially that of S. J. Res. 9, which the Senate 
rejected on March 15, 2007. I draw to the attention of my colleagues my 
statement in the Record of March 15, 2007, at page 53166.

As I stated 2 weeks ago, I would be prepared to cross party lines, as 
I have done in the past when I thought it warranted, if I agreed with 
the thrust of the resolution. Seven Senators of the minority joined 
with the majority in voting for cloture several weeks ago to move ahead 
with the debate and try to come to a resolution on the Iraqi issue. I 
was one of the seven. I would not hesitate to do so again if I agreed, 
but I cannot agree with the language requiring that not later than 120 
days after enactment to have phased redeployment of U.S. forces, with 
the goal of redeploying by March 31, 2008, all U.S. combat forces in 
Iraq.



The thrust of the language in the bill, however, is to leave Iraq in 
a year, something that will ensure defeat--as setting a timetable 
simply enables our opponents to wait us out.

I think beyond that, the idea of having the Congress of the United 
States micromanage the war is simply not realistic, and perhaps it may 
even be unlawful. I note in the case of Fleming v. Page, in 1850, the 
Supreme Court said:




 As Commander in Chief, he is authorized to direct the 


 movements of the naval and military forces placed by law at 


 his command, and to employ them in the manner he may deem 


 most effectual to harass and conquer and subdue the enemy.


That is a fairly forceful statement that it is not up to the Congress 
to micromanage a war but that it is up to the Commander in Chief, the 
President of the United States. That is not to say that the Congress 
does not have authority in the premises. I continue to seek hearings by 
the Judiciary Committee on the relative powers, authority of the 
Congress under the Constitution, with our power of the purse and our 
power to maintain and direct armies, contrasted with the President's 
power as Commander in Chief.

I believe, however, it is impractical and of questionable legal 
authority for us to seek to micromanage the war if the consequences of 
giving an order to the President would just enable the enemy to wait us 
out. That is not to say that at sometime in the future it may be 
necessary, and there may be a considered joint judgment by the 
Congress, to use the extraordinary power of the purse to implement our 
constitutional authority to maintain armies to effectuate a withdrawal.

I had one additional thought to the substance of my floor statement 
of March 15. We may find victory, unexpectedly, as Winston Churchill 
said in a June 18, 1940 speech, when he was commenting on World War I:




 During the first four years of the last war the Allies 


 experienced nothing but disaster and disappointment. That was 


 our constant fear: one blow after another, terrible losses, 


 frightful dangers. Everything miscarried. And yet at the end 


 of those four years the morale of the Allies was higher than 


 that of the Germans, who had moved from one aggressive 


 triumph to another, and who stood everywhere triumphant 


 invaders of the lands into which they had broken. During that 


 war we repeatedly asked ourselves the question: How are we 


 going to win? And no one was able ever to answer it with much 


 precision, until at the end, quite suddenly, quite 


 unexpectedly, our terrible foe collapsed before us, and we 


 were so glutted with victory that in our folly we threw it 


 away.


Churchill's words suggest that if we maintain our determination we 
can win although the path to victory, at the moment, is very uncertain.

Furthermore, the President has issued a veto threat should 
legislation contain the provision Senator Cochran's amendment would 
strike. Such an action would deprive funds vital to U.S. troops and the 
operations of the Department of Defense.