# None
## `89b0bdf96858f8160a8793d36a5f7009`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Private. I mean, these are private tax 
collectors that we ended up spending more money paying them than what 
they collected, and then they turned around and there's an instance of 
when an elderly couple received 150 calls in the course of 27 days. 
Now, anyone that knows anything about people calling your home that you 
don't want calling your home, and they're calling for someone else, 
they're calling the Murphy household and they're asking for the Johnson 
family, and you keep telling them that, no, the Johnson family doesn't 
live here, what we did today was to do the right thing on behalf of the 
American taxpayer by passing that piece of legislation that repealed 
the IRS authority to enter into private debt collector contracts. I 
think that's very, very important.

Also, when you look at it from a fiscal responsibility piece, Madam 
Speaker, and we're talking about being responsible, you have to look at 
this whole issue of the study that shows that the IRS employees that 
are employed by the IRS is 13-1 on what they can collect from what the 
private collectors are actually able to collect.

Also in that great piece of legislation was something that we all 
feel very strong about, the 1-year suspension on the 3 percent, 3 
percent that is collected from small businesses up front when they 
contract with local governments, and a number of other issues that were 
in that bill.

I'm saying all of this to make this point: 210 Democrats voted for 
it; 22 Republicans voted for it. Now, one can say that's a bipartisan 
vote, but when you look at 164 Republicans voting against something 
that, on its surface, you don't have to dig far, the numbers, when we 
had hearing in Ways and Means on it, the numbers represent the true 
meaning of what has not happened and contracting with a private company 
to call the taxpayers of this great country of ours and not doing the 
job that they set out to do, that they ended up getting a real paycheck 
at the end of the day, which they didn't even do the work, and then 
better yet, they're calling individuals' homes that already paid their 
taxes, because the accountability was not there.

I think it is very, very important. I just want to make sure that it 
is very important that we highlight these issues and we talk about the 
success that we're having here in Congress where we need our Republican 
colleagues to join us, but we're still pushing forward because the good 
thing about it is the fact that the American people are with the new 
direction agenda, and it's their agenda. We're just a vehicle to allow 
it to happen, need it be children's health care, need it be cutting 
student loan interest rates in half, need it be increasing the minimum 
wage, need it be what we're doing and what's at the President's desk on 
the issue of energy.

I mean, we have all these issues. Some were the 6 in '06 that we 
talked about. Some were ideas we picked up along the way that we 
thought was very, very important.

As we continue to move down this track, I just want to share with my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle that it is not necessarily or 
if it is something of a Democratic idea, because when you see votes 
like this, I can't help but think as a legislator going into my 14th 
year of public service, you have me by 2 years, to see a vote like this 
vote, that was obviously a good vote to take on behalf of the American 
people and to go the opposite way, if it was just merely politics, then 
I would say, well, you know, let's just go back and sit in our office 
and allow them to continue to take these votes.

But when we start looking at how we are going to deal with the war in 
Iraq, you called those numbers out of how many children I mean by day, 
by week, by month, by days that can receive health care, and just like 
this, $3,316 I think are spent every second in Iraq when children can 
receive health care.

And so when you look at it, I mean, when we start talking about why 
and it should work itself out or it's the right thing to do, it's 
something that's happening around here that we haven't quite uncovered 
yet. But I don't have a lot of time, Madam Speaker, to try to uncover 
the problem on the other side of the aisle. I don't.

I'm with the Speaker and I'm with the majority leader and I'm with 
the majority whip and I'm with the Chair of the caucus and the Vice 
Chair of the caucus and all of the leadership folks that are running 
around here in the different caucuses and saying that the American 
people sent us here to go to work. We've gone to work. We've already 
broken records. We're on our way to break another record as it relates 
to


what we're doing on behalf of the American people.

But that's something that Members are going to have to explain back 
home if they're taking these unpopular votes, when one may say the 
blind leading the blind and two shall fall down in the ditch, that 
should happen. That's what we used to stay when I was on the football 
field at Florida A&M.

The real issue here is we should feel good about what we have 
accomplished. We should feel good that the American people are on 
board. We're on board with the American people. We're carrying out 
their agenda, and that's Democrat and Republican, too. I don't want an 
American that opens their wallet and, you know, look at their voter 
registration card and say, well, I'm a Republican, Congressman Meek is 
not talking to me. I'm talking to you because when you look at fiscal 
responsibility, when you look at this issue, this is your wallet, too. 
When we cut interest rates in half, the President didn't want to do it. 
You wanted it to happen, Republican, independent, nonvoter, Democrat, 
you wanted it to happen. That was a bill for you, not for the three of 
us, for you to cut your interest rates in half. So when we look at 
these issues, we have to look at a functional government, that we have 
responsibility, and then we have to put the partisanship aside.

One thing I can say, that we have passed major pieces of legislation 
in a bipartisan way and have allowed Republican input that has not been 
the case, I know and I can attest, for the 108th and 109th Congress.

I say all of that to say that I think it's important that we continue 
to paint the picture, especially for our colleagues that are not voting 
when it's abundantly clear of why you should vote for something. I 
mean, someone had to say don't vote for it, and then they say, okay, 
I'm not going to vote for it. There has to be a reason why, when you 
empower private debt collectors to have private information, you know 
what I'm talking about because I know you wear that privacy hat, 
privacy information of your personal information, okay, and they abuse 
and they fail in the mission of collecting the dollars that they're 
supposed to collect from individuals that are not paying their taxes. 
And then to turn around and see numbers of cases of abuse where 
individuals have been called over 150 times that have been documented 
over a period of 27 days to an elderly couple and still you come to the 
floor and vote no? I mean, I just don't understand it.