---
---

# RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
## `89b50c58cc5165f99dcae321068a109c`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow will mark six years to a day of 
inconceivable terror and grief brought upon our nation by the very 
worst acts of humankind. It was also a day where we witnessed the very 
best of America. We saw first responders entering buildings to save 
their fellow citizens knowing full well that their lives were in 
danger, yet doing so without reservation. We saw concerned Americans 
standing in lines to donate blood for their fallen neighbors. We saw 
our nation come together with one voice and one spirit, in that day of 
terror we saw our Nation more united than any point in our history.

Our hearts go out to the families of all the victims of that terrible 
day. We will forever remain saddened by the tragic loss of human life. 
What happened to our Nation six years ago was an unspeakable act of war 
on the very foundation of what makes us American. What happened on that 
day was an assault on thousands of innocent people who were enjoying 
the very freedom we hold so dear.

Truly, we mourn the victims of September 11th, but today, six years 
after those attacks we can also celebrate the lives of those who were 
lost to us on that fateful day. They were truly representative of the 
diversity and richness of character in our Nation. The victims of 
September 11th hailed from almost every state in our union, they came 
from countries throughout the globe, emblematic of the rich tapestry 
that is the hallmark of our people. On that day, those victims and 
indeed all of us, were not divided along racial or religious lines, on 
that day more than any other, we were Americans united by our common 
values of life, liberty and justice.

Six years ago tomorrow our first responders struck the first blow in 
the War on Terror. By refusing to consider their lives before others,


they drew a stark contrast to the terrorists of September 11th who 
refused to even value their own lives before taking the lives of so 
many innocent human beings. Those first responders refused to bow to 
the fear that the terrorists hoped to instill in our minds on that day. 
They refused to despair in the face of the greatest attack upon our 
Nation, instead they charged forward. They not only saved lives on that 
day, but their selfless acts inspired the psyche of every American, 
their acts of heroism inspired our nation to action.

Now six years later from September 11th, I fear we have lost much of 
the unity that came to define that day. Truly the heroism of September 
11th continues today, with more than 3,800 Americans who have given 
their lives fighting the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. But at home we 
have allowed politics to come between us, we have allowed ourselves to 
be divided in the face of a continuing War on Terror. But I remain 
hopeful that the spirit we saw on September 11th is still present in 
all of us. We must rekindle the firm resolve we had on that day, it was 
a resolve not simply founded by the attacks upon our nation by a group 
of terrorists, but built by our collective belief in the greatness of 
our nation and its ideals. We must remain a beacon for freedom and 
integrity throughout the world, but all efforts must start at home. Six 
years ago we suffered the worst day of our collective lives, but I hope 
that today we have turned the pain of September 11th into a new calling 
for our Nation.