---
---

# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `89b5649d1de1e4f9a45740221c72a991`
`Mr. WAMP — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. You didn't have to say ''amen.''

But I will not cooperate with anyone for our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen and marines to walk away in defeat or to leave prematurely 
before we can hold our head up and say ''America has succeeded with 
this just mission in Iraq.''

I don't want to stay for 5 years or 10 years. I think it is a matter 
of months before we can see real, live redeployments. But the military 
leaders need to do that. It doesn't need to happen on the floor of the 
U.S. House of Representatives. We can't micromanage this war, and we 
sure as heck shouldn't be sending signals that we are going to pull 
them out, because that is the worst thing we can do for the long-term 
interests of our country.

The Middle East is in chaos. The Wall Street Journal said it well 
last week. The worst religious and political pathology in the history 
of the world is in the Middle East, and now you add to that nuclear 
weapons, terrorism, IEDs and control of the world's oil supplies, there 
is a lot at stake.

This is not Vietnam. Nothing like it. Nothing like it. It is a whole 
lot worse, the stakes of losing in Iraq. I believe that deep in my 
soul, and I am going to continue to say that on the floor of this 
House. We need to stand together as a Nation and stand together behind 
our men and women in uniform until we can leave in victory and drive 
back this terrorist threat at this point we are fighting in Iraq.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for the time.