# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3159, ENSURING MILITARY READINESS  THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `89b8fdab2784eb841265cde790d5f6f1`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Thank you, Mr. Dreier.

Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 601 provides for consideration of H.R. 3159, the 
Ensuring Military Readiness Through Stability and Predictability 
Deployment Policy Act of 2007, under a closed rule. The rule provides 1 
hour of debate, equally divided and controlled by the chairman and 
ranking member of the Committee on Armed Services. The rule waives all 
points of order against consideration of the bill, except those arising 
under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. The rule considers as adopted the 
Armed Services Committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The 
rule provides for one motion to recommit, with or without instructions.

Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq has taken us into uncharted territory as 
a Nation and as a society. During the Vietnam war, 4 percent of the 
general population served in the military. During World War II, fully 
12 percent of our people served. Forms of personal sacrifice and 
national service were to be found everywhere, planted in victory 
gardens or held in war bonds. Even during the Civil War, a conflict 
from a different age, more than one in ten Americans fought.

Never in our history has America fought a war of this magnitude, or 
one that is this difficult, with an entirely voluntary military force 
composed of only 1 percent of the general population. And while so much 
of what is going on in Iraq hearkens back to past conflicts, what is 
occurring within our society does not.

It is true that the historically high percentage of National Guard 
troops fighting abroad has spread the reach of this war farther than 
some anticipated. But for nearly all Americans the immediacy of the war 
has been dulled by distance. We have never been asked to sacrifice as 
people. We have, instead, been told to go about our lives as usual and 
ask merely to support the troops in a vague sense.

Within this mass of normality lies the lives of those Americans who 
have actually fought in Iraq, the mothers, husbands, sons, daughters 
and siblings who have been sent there and who have seen things that few 
of us can relate to or even imagine. They have been asked to fight in a 
conflict whose architects have largely receded from the public view, 
but not before the failures of these officials made themselves felt 
every time a soldier was forced to enter a battle without proper body 
armor or without a vehicle that would keep him or her safe. In a very 
real sense, the families of these soldiers have been asked to endure 
the same reality and forced to live every moment of their deployment 
with the fear that their loved one will be injured, or worse.

Despite it all, despite everything that the members of our military 
and their families have been asked to bear for year after year, the 
talk of what is to be done in Iraq is often clinical: We should 
increase troop numbers; we should lower them; we should place more 
troops here, send more troops


there. Troops are spoken of as if they were simply another machine to 
be moved about and to be used at our will.

Our soldiers are human beings. They are our fellow citizens. They 
have dignity. They have rights. They do not deserve to be cast around 
as the administration stumbles forward seeking to find a solution to a 
problem of its own creation.

Already, a flawed war plan has forced the members of our military to 
endure not just the brunt of battle but also to make up for 
miscalculation at home. Tours have been extended and then extended 
again in an unprecedented way. Previously unknown burdens have been 
placed on our men and women in uniform as a result. At a certain point, 
we as a society have to say enough is enough.

The legislation before us is supported by men like Senator Jim Webb 
and Representative John Murtha for a reason: Former soldiers know what 
current deployment schedules are doing to our soldiers and to their 
families. It will restore some order to the process by prohibiting the 
deployment of any active military unit to Iraq unless that unit's 
soldiers have rested for at least as long as they have fought. It is a 
simple premise that was followed in virtually every war America has 
fought. It should be followed again today.

Mr. Speaker, this bill should not tie the hands of generals. If 
national security or the safety of our troops would be put at risk by 
shortened deployment, the bill's requirements can be waived. But the 
President will have to do so publicly and certify to Congress that his 
decision is vitally important. With everything our soldiers are asked 
to do, it is long past time that the President was forced to explain to 
Congress and to the American people why it is all necessary.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is about who we are as a society and about the 
values we hold. Our fellow citizens have been sent to fight in this 
conflict and have asked nothing from us in return. But we certainly owe 
them everything. We owe them our support, not in a rhetorical sense or 
in blind allegiance to the administration's claims but in a real sense, 
by making sure that they are given the proper training and armor, by 
making sure they are allowed to rest for an adequate amount of time 
between deployments.

Mr. Speaker, we have a chance to live up to our responsibilities as a 
people today. I hope this body is ready to face that challenge.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.