# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `89bc499f957671f7eca28f8a0c310ce0`
`Mr. REED — 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in support of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010. First I wish to speak briefly 
about the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act. Unfortunately, we 
have seen far too many cases of these types of crimes of violence 
motivated strictly by prejudice and hatred of people. This amendment 
would simply extend the current definition of Federal hate crimes to 
include crimes committed on the basis of someone's gender, gender 
identity, sexual orientation, or disability. This amendment does not 
federalize all violent hate crimes. Rather, it authorizes the Federal 
Government to step in as a backstop, only after the Justice Department 
certifies that a Federal prosecution is necessary. It also supports 
State and local efforts to prosecute hate crimes by providing Federal 
aid to local law enforcement officials. This amendment affirms our 
commitment to the most basic of American values--the dignity of the 
individual and the right of that individual to be himself or herself. I 
am pleased to lend my support. That is an issue we will confront in the 
context of our armed services bill, and I think we should go forward 
and adopt it.

I wish to commend, with respect to the specifics of the armed 
services bill, my colleagues on the committee for their work, and the 
leadership of Senators Levin and McCain. I hope this is a bill 
President Obama can sign. During the committee's markup, I voted 
against an amendment to provide funding for additional F-22s and for 
the Joint Strike Fighter alternate engine. I remain opposed to these 
programs. We should not put this bill in jeopardy of a veto, so I urge 
my colleagues to vote, when it comes to the floor, for the Levin-McCain 
amendment to strike the F-22 funding, which I hope will be considered 
soon.

As evidenced by the F-22 issue, this bill is the product of many 
tough decisions. I commend Secretary Gates particularly for his very 
judicious, thoughtful approach to this budget, and his uniformed 
colleagues. They have thought long and hard about the new world of 
threats. They have thought long and hard about how we can provide the 
most necessary resources for our men and women in uniform. They have 
recommended to us a very sound approach. With certain exceptions, the 
legislation before us recognizes and accepts those recommendations.

The new administration and President Obama have also done a 
remarkable job in terms of trying to change strategic direction, change 
acquisition policies, and to develop a fighting force that will meet 
the threats of today and prepare ourselves for future possibilities. 
This Defense authorization bill contains many aspects which are 
critical to the success of our men and women in uniform. Let me suggest 
a few.

First, it once again recognizes the extraordinary service and 
sacrifice of these young Americans by authorizing a much needed 3.4 
percent across-the-board pay raise. The extraordinary sacrifices they 
make every day can never be compensated by dollars and, indeed, their 
motivation is not financial. It is to serve the Nation and serve it 
with courage and fidelity. They do it so well. I have had the privilege 
to travel to Afghanistan and Iraq on numerous occasions and to witness 
the heroic and decent service of these remarkable people. This pay 
raise reflects, at least in part, the value we place on their service.

The legislation fully funds Army readiness and depot maintenance 
programs to ensure that forces preparing to deploy are properly trained 
and equipped. It also authorizes $27.9 billion for the Defense Health 
Program and permits special compensation for designated caregivers for 
the time and assistance they provide to servicemembers with combat-
related catastrophic injuries or illnesses requiring assistance in day 
living. What we are seeing is success medically on the battlefield, 
where the mortality rates relative to the injuries have declined, as 
they have since World War II. But we have a significant population of 
very severely wounded young men and women. They need help, and the 
caregivers need help. This legislation recognizes that.

The legislation fully funds the President's budget request of $7.5 
billion to train and equip the Afghan National Army and the Afghan 
National Police forces. The bill also includes a provision that 
emphasizes the need to establish measures of progress for the 
administration's strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan and to report to 
Congress regularly on efforts to achieve progress in that region. I saw 
the merits of this approach in my recent trip with Senator Kaufman to 
Pakistan and Afghanistan in April. In fact, as we observe the increased 
tempo of operations in southern Afghanistan, led by our marines and 
British forces, we also recognize the need to partner with more Afghani 
police and security forces and military forces. Our strategy can't be 
just an American presence. It has to be an American-Afghani presence, 
which ultimately will translate to an almost exclusive, if not 
exclusive, Afghan presence. To do that, we have to support the building 
and the professionalization of Afghan security forces.

There is within this budget funding for our Navy that is absolutely 
critical. It includes funding to complete the third Zumwalt class 
destroyer. This ship is critical to maintaining the technical 
superiority of our Navy that it enjoys across the oceans of the world. 
The future maritime fleet must be adaptable, affordable, survivable, 
flexible, and responsive. The Zumwalt class provides all these 
characteristics as a multimission service combatant, tailored for land 
attack and littoral dominance. It will provide an independent presence, 
allow for precision naval gunfire support of joint forces ashore and, 
through its advanced sensors, ensure absolute control of the combat 
airspace. All of this capability is based on today's proven and 
demonstrated technologies. We can't build the same ships we were 
building 20 years ago and hope to maintain our superiority and, indeed, 
hedge against the emerging threats of tomorrow.

This Zumwalt technology is also the transition to the next class of 
surface combatants, which are likely to be a new class of cruisers. The 
hope is that we can leverage what we learn on Zumwalt so that the next 
class of surface combatants will be even more capable and, we hope, 
extremely cost efficient.

I also note that the underlying legislation fully funds the continued 
procurement of the Virginia class attack submarine. These attack 
submarines are on the highest level of demand by area commanders. The 
CINCs, when they are asked what they need in terms of resources, 
invariably place very close, if not on the top of their list, 
additional submarines because of their stealth, their ability to 
operate intelligence areas, and their ability to have a forward 
presence without being recognized. These are critical, and I am pleased 
by the recognition of the administration and the committee in this 
regard.

This year I was once again extremely fortunate and honored to serve 
as the chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee. 
I particularly thank and commend Senator Wicker and his staff. They 
were true collaborators. Their cooperation was significant in terms of 
improving the quality of our subcommittee report. We have worked 
together very well. I, again, particularly commend and thank Senator 
Wicker for his insights, his energy, and for his great collaboration in 
this effort. The Emerging


Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee is responsible for looking at new 
and emerging threats to our security and considering appropriate steps 
we should take to develop new capabilities to face these threats. In 
preparation for our markup, Senator Levin provided guidelines for the 
work of the committee including the following two items: Improve the 
ability of the Armed Forces to counter nontraditional threats, 
including terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, 
and their means of delivery; and, second, enhance the capability of the 
Armed Forces to conduct counterinsurgency operations.

In response, our subcommittee recommended initiatives in a number of 
areas within our jurisdiction. These areas include supporting critical 
nonproliferation programs and other efforts to combat weapons of mass 
destruction; supporting advances in medical research and technology to 
treat such modern battlefield conditions as traumatic brain injuries 
and post-traumatic stress disorder; increasing investments in new 
energy technologies such as fuel cells, hybrid engines, and alternate 
fuels to increase military performance and reduce cost; increasing 
investments in advanced manufacturing technologies to strengthen our 
defense industrial base so that it can rapidly and efficiently produce 
the materiel needed by the Nation's warfighters; and increasing 
investments in research at our Nation's small businesses, government 
labs, and universities so that we have the most innovative minds in our 
country working to enhance our national security.


Specifically, some notable actions in this bill that originated in 
the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee include: authorizing 
full funding for the Special Operations Command and adding $131.7 
million to meet unfunded equipment requirements identified by the 
commander of our Special Forces to enable them to conduct 
counterinsurgency operations and to support ongoing military 
operations; authorizing full funding requested for the Joint IED Defeat 
Organization, JIEDDO. This is particularly important as we read about 
the increasing IED attacks against our forces in Afghanistan since our 
offensive began in Helmand Province weeks ago. These IEDs are the No. 1 
threat to our forces in the field and our allied forces in the field. 
This very sophisticated organization uses the information technology, 
innovation, communication, and new techniques, working closely with 
battlefield commanders, to protect our forces and our allied forces. 
They have a critical role and a critical mission. We fully support both 
in this legislation.

We authorize the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, providing an 
additional $10 million for new initiatives outside the former Soviet 
Union. We provide $3 million for chemical weapons demilitarization in 
Russia and elsewhere, and $7 million for strategic offensive arms 
elimination. We have to recognize that these weapons are distributed 
too broadly in many respects, and our efforts to restrict them and to, 
we hope, dismantle them have to be broad also.

We added $50 million to nonproliferation research and development for 
nuclear forensics and other R&D activities and required the development 
of an interagency forensics and nuclear attribution program. One of the 
hopes--and this must be based on very calculable scientific and 
technological research--is that if we can identify the source of a 
nuclear detonation positively, we would have an extraordinarily 
powerful deterrent card which we could use diplomatically to indicate 
that if any nation, particularly covertly, attempts, directly or 
through terrorist groups, to deploy a nuclear weapon anywhere in the 
world, we could trace it back and respond immediately. That could give 
us, again, an enhanced deterrence. This depends upon the progress we 
make in research, but we must begin with energy research. We have that 
in the legislation.

The bill also highlights the importance of a strong manufacturing 
industrial base. The bill would create a new position, the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Manufacturing and Industrial Base, to oversee 
the Department's policies and programs for our Nation's industrial 
base. Further, the bill increases funding for manufacturing research in 
DOD by roughly $100 million to support the defense industrial base and 
reduce the cost of production of weapons systems and our ability to 
meet surge requirements demands of operating forces.

This bill also reauthorizes the DOD's Small Business Innovation 
Research program, in coordination with the efforts of Senator Mary 
Landrieu, chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship. To support investments in next-generation 
technologies and advanced military capabilities, this bill would 
increase the Department's funding for innovative science and technology 
programs by over $480 million for a total of $12.1 billion.

The bill authorizes the full funding that was requested for chemical 
and biological defense programs and the full amount requested for 
chemical weapons demilitarization in the United States. This funding 
totals over $3 billion.

With regard to counterdrug programs, the bill fully funds DOD drug 
interdiction and counterdrug activities. It also includes a provision 
that would extend the authority to use counterdrug funds to support the 
Government of Colombia's unified campaign against narcotics cultivation 
and trafficking and against terrorist organizations involved in such 
activities. It also recommends a $30 million increase in funding for 
high priority National Guard counternarcotics programs.

This issue of narcotics is particularly central to our efforts in 
Afghanistan. When I was there in April, we were in Helmand Province 
which was covered, literally, with opium poppies. The opium trade 
provides support for opponents of the Taliban. If we disrupt that trade 
and we are able to reduce the flow of resources to the Taliban but also 
provide legitimate family farmers with the opportunity and the 
profitability to grow alternate crops, then we can make a successful 
dent in the power and the presence of the Taliban there. These 
counternarcotics programs, not only in Colombia but also in 
Afghanistan, are absolutely important.

This is a good bill. It is, I think, wise legislation, with the 
exceptions I noted. Members of the committee and the committee staff 
have worked many hours to get this bill to the floor. We are a nation 
engaged in two conflicts and an ongoing struggle in many parts of the 
world to intercept, interdict, and preempt terrorists. We need to 
support our military forces, and I urge my colleagues to work together 
to pass it so we can quickly have a conference with the House and send 
it to the President for his signature.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.