---
---

# None
## `89c25d866edbac6ce8660160dd48e48f`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 27 October 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of S. 
832, a bill to grant a federal charter to the Military Officers 
Association of America. My colleague Walter Jones and I joined with 140 
cosponsors to introduce the House companion, H.R. 2017.

S. 832 recognizes the dedication, service and accomplishments of 
military officers and their families, and the enduring contribution of 
MOAA to the military and veterans' communities, and the nation.

I want to thank Senators Bill Nelson and Bob Corker for their hard 
work in helping successfully report the Senate bill.

MOAA has been seeking a federal charter for 15 years. Despite 
bipartisan and bicameral support, the bill had never previously 
received a floor vote in either chamber.

MOAA serves a membership of 370,000 active, reserve and retired 
officers and their spouses in every branch of the military.

The variety of services MOAA provides includes:

The MOAA Scholarship Fund, which provides interest-free loans and 
grants to students of military families;

Supplemental health insurance; and

Personalized career transition assistance services for members and 
spouses;

The Military Officers Association has had a distinguished record of 
protecting and improving earned compensation and benefits for the 
entire military and veterans' community. Thanks to the support of 
Members of this Body and our colleagues in the Senate, MOAA has led 
efforts that resulted in enactment of major legislative accomplishments 
including:

TRICARE for Life, landmark legislation that provides lifetime 
government-sponsored health coverage for military retirees and their 
family members;

The Post-9/11 GI Bill, which provides cost-free education at any 
public college or university in the country for the current generation 
of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans;

Elimination of a dollar-for-dollar offset to military retired pay for 
retirees with VA service-connected disabilities of 50% to 100%;

Access to continuous TRICARE health coverage for currently serving 
National Guard and Reserve families and for reservists who qualify for 
reserve retirement but are not yet in receipt of reserve retired pay at 
age 60;

Elimination of financial penalties for retired regular officers who 
pursue second careers in the Federal civil service; and

Upgrades in compensation and transition services for severely wounded 
warriors, their families and the survivors of those who have made the 
ultimate sacrifice in defense of the nation.

MOAA serves a vital role in helping inform and shape public policy on 
national defense matters and by ensuring that the needs of the entire 
active duty, National Guard and Reserves, military retirees, survivors, 
veterans and their family members are given voice in the public forum.

I want to also congratulate MOAA for being recognized by ''The Hill'' 
newspaper for the third year in a row as the top advocacy organization 
representing veterans.

MOAA has long tradition of servant-leadership to the entire military 
and veterans community. The Association provides a variety of services 
not only to its members but to military men and women of all ranks and 
to veterans.

I am pleased to recommend a Federal Charter be granted to the 
Military Officers Association of America and ask for unanimous consent 
that S. 832 be passed.

The bill was ordered to be read a third time, was read the third 
time, and passed, and a motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
