---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `89c4a0e1e10001be9868fd99d11d8fa0`
`Mr. FORBES — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. FORBES. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Madam Chairman, the manager's amendment purports to correct several 
flaws with this legislation. Unfortunately, the amendment offered by my 
good friend, the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, 
misses the mark. It is one of those things that had we had the 
opportunity to work in a bipartisan way we could have corrected it. I 
don't have any pride of authorship, don't care who writes it. We just 
need to get it written correctly, and unfortunately, it's not written 
correctly as it's before us today.

H.R. 2740 imposes an unworkable and unnecessary geographic limitation 
on Federal jurisdiction to areas in ''close proximity'' to a 
contingency operation. The manager's amendment fails to correct this 
flaw. If the majority were serious about passing a good bill, it would 
have heeded the concerns of the Department of Defense that establishing 
extraterritorial jurisdiction based upon a tenuous link to geographic 
locations where a military presence can be found is impractical. 
Civilian criminal jurisdiction based on a nexus dependent upon a 
military ''contingency operation'' is ill-advised.

For instance, Madam Chairman, if the majority had consulted the 
Department of Defense, it would have learned that Secretary-designated 
contingency operations are rarely, if ever, used and are limited to 
operations with a view toward an enemy or opposing military force.

By-law designations, however, result from automatic actions during a 
war or a national emergency declared by the President or Congress, the 
scope of which may be unannounced, generally unknown, or imprecisely 
defined.

Thus, it will be next to impossible for Federal prosecutors to 
establish jurisdiction in a U.S. court based upon an indefinable 
proximity to a contingency operation at the time the offense occurred.

Moreover, the majority clearly did little to educate itself as to how 
the government currently investigates fraud or violent crimes committed 
by U.S. military personnel or contractors overseas. If it had, it would 
have learned that such investigations are not conducted solely by the 
FBI.

The FBI does not operate theater investigative units. Rather, legal 
attaches assigned to 70 embassies worldwide are the first point of 
contact for any overseas crime investigated by the FBI. The largest of 
these offices is currently in Baghdad, which operates the Iraq 
Contracting Fraud Task Force.

In addition, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the criminal 
investigative arm of the DOD Inspector General, has been engaged in 
investigating DOD-related matters pertaining to the Iraqi theater, to 
include Kuwait, since the start of the war.

Likewise, the International Contract Corruption Task Force, which is 
known as ICCTF, combines the Department of Justice and FBI with Army 
CID, DCIS, SIGIR, IRS CID and other Inspectors General to investigate 
and prosecute procurement fraud.

Requiring the FBI to establish individual theater investigative units 
will disrupt the existing law enforcement partnerships and task forces.

This bill will also impose a heavy financial burden on the FBI with 
no additional funding from Congress and will most certainly detract 
from the FBI's duty to dismantle gang networks, combat child 
pornography and exploitation, and protect Americans from another 
terrorist attack.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.