---
---

# None
## `89c66ab22e17cf1c379b06c4fdcea775`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Before I say something here as it relates what 
you just said, Mr. Ryan, I think it is important for us to at least 
look at the argument that the President has not been able to make. He 
hasn't been able to make that Democrats on Capitol Hill are trying to 
do something that the American people should not do. We can't say that 
because 18 Republicans in the Senate supported the bill along with the 
Democrats. It is bipartisan. And 43 Governors, including 16 
Republicans, are in support of the SCHIP bill and children's health 
care, and 270 organizations representing millions of Americans are in 
support. And a strong majority of the American people are in support. I 
have the quotes here, and I hope to put it on the 30-something Web site 
about what Republicans have said about the veto and even prior to the 
veto.

I think it is also important to point out, Mr. Ryan and Mrs. Tubbs 
Jones, I think it is important for us not just to focus on the action 
of the President. We do have the opportunity to override. The 
President, like I said last night, he can't run for reelection again 
because he is term limited out. So the only way the American people can 
stand in judgment of him is when someone calls their home and asks how 
they feel about how the President is running the country, and those 
numbers are very, very low as to whether the President is doing a good 
job.

But when you look at this issue of health care, I think there this is 
a gut check for many Members of Congress. There are some numbers, and I 
heard Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones asking Members on the floor 
today that voted in the affirmative for the bill: Are you going to vote 
with us to override the President? Out of two conversations I heard, it 
was ''yes.'' But I think it is important that each Member of Congress 
start to use their relationships with other Members of Congress, 
especially with the other side of the aisle. My conversation with some 
of my colleagues today have been, Please, I kind of like you. I think 
you are a nice guy. I don't know if you want to make a career decision 
to be with the President because that is what is going to happen. The 
President is talking about negotiating on children's health care when, 
and I am looking at a quote here, and quotes and past statements by the 
President, I don't think they hold any great value as to what he is 
going to do if it has nothing to do with Iraq.

He said at the Republican National Convention in 2004: ''In a new 
term, we will lead in an aggressive effort to enroll millions of 
children who are eligible but not yet signed up for government health 
care insurance programs. We will not allow the lack of attention or 
information to stand between these children and health care that they 
need.''

Well, I can tell you, based on his veto, he is standing in the 
schoolhouse door as it relates to children receiving health care. I 
have been talking to my colleagues in the halls and saying, Listen you 
need to be on the side of the children. Not with the Democrats, not 
with some group, either liberal or conservative, moderate, you have to 
be on the side of the children.