---
---

# None
## `89e0e5aa769b75ced1c28e6610564629`
`Mr. SHAYS — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.

There is not a Member of Congress who isn't tormented by the war in 
Iraq. There is not a Member of Congress that has not attended a funeral 
of a brave man or woman who has lost their life and seen the family's 
torment. So I just want to say for the record, all of us wrestle with 
this, Mr. Murtha, as you wrestle with this issue. We come to a 
different conclusion than you do, but it is as sincere and heartfelt as 
yours is.

I have been to Iraq 16 times. I try to go every 3 to 4 months. I 
think we made huge mistakes in 2003. I don't think we turned things 
around and started to move forward until June of 2004, when we 
transferred power to the Iraqis. I saw the rest of 2004 and all of 2005 
as pretty stunning.

And then in 2006 we had this new government. It took them 4 months to 
become a government. And as you are going upstream and you are not 
making progress, you fall behind. The Samarra bombing was a 
catastrophe. For most of 2006 this government did not take decisive 
action. But on my last trip, the one we took just a few weeks ago, I 
started to see something that gives me hope, and it runs in the face of 
the resolution in the supplemental. I am seeing Anbar province turning 
around because the Iraqi Sunnis have come to us and said, we want to 
confront the insurgents in our province.

I spoke to 40 Iraqi soldiers in the Red Zone, not in the marketplace, 
and asked them, do you feel safe when you go home? Only about three or 
four told me they didn't feel safe. And, remember, they work 20 days, 
then they go home for 10. I saw their feeling of safety encouraging.

The Baiji oil refinery, which we took back with five batallions from 
the Iraqi Security Force is no longer a source of income for the 
insurgents. We have gotten at the corruption at the refinery; and now, 
instead of 20 trucks a day, we are having 200 trucks a day, and we feel 
fairly certain the oil is going to the right places and the insurgents 
aren't getting these dollars.

I am not against timelines; I am just against timelines in the 
supplemental. January 1, 2008 is one of them; April 1, 2008 is another; 
and, if the best happens, September 1, 2008. I am not against a 
timeline; I am against those timelines.

We need to give the Iraqis timelines that give them the time to 
resolve their differences. We attacked them; they did not attack us. We 
abolished all their security forces. How could we possibly leave before 
we give them the chance to have their Army stand up, their police stand 
up, their border patrol stand up? We attacked them. It is a moral 
obligation to give them the opportunity to defend themselves.

If we want to talk about timelines, let's work it out together. Let's 
establish timelines that give Iraqis time to do what they need to do.

I am voting against this resolution. It is harmful to Iraqis and 
harmful to Americans.