# PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS
## `89e6dff4492f0af89f7abcf70823577c`
`Mr. FARR — 5 March 2009`

---


Mr. FARR. Well, without a doubt the way we have been spending and 
putting the war efforts into just an emergency supplemental doesn't 
make any sense, because there has never been an accounting for it. The 
new administration has said they are bringing us in their budget the 
cost of Iraq and Afghanistan, so there is going to be some fiscal 
responsibility, and everyone knows there will be a day when we will not 
be spending that much money, which is a lot of money, and therefore 
those costs can be cut.

I think that there is no way that we cannot. As we try to balance 
this budget or get it into sense in the outyears, the largest increase 
over the years has been the Defense Department, and therefore they are 
going to be the one that is the most dramatically reduced. I think all 
of us feel that the plan is to have a smaller military, but without a 
doubt it has to be a smarter military, and the investment in smartness 
is not the kinds of things you see on that board.

I am very excited about upgrading the skills of American military, 
particularly because my background in the Peace Corps is that you find 
in Afghanistan and Iraq what is missing now is what we call soft power, 
which is that we have learned to kick down the doors anywhere in the 
world at any time, but we have not learned to win the hearts and minds 
of people. If indeed we are going to have peace and stability, we have 
got to do a lot more work on the soft power side, which is


less expensive and probably more effective. So, obviously there is room 
for reductions. As we argue the cost of health care, we have to also 
argue the cost of defense.