---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `89e9038735a6aae17ec39068aea1f3e8`
`Mr. BEGICH — 6 November 2009`

---


Mr. BEGICH. Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1963, the 
Caregiver and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009. I thank the 
chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, Senator Akaka, for his 
leadership on this bill and in committee.

S. 1963 is comprehensive legislation that addresses many of the needs 
of our veterans, our Nation's heroes. Provisions are included to 
improve veterans health care, provide benefits for caregivers of 
wounded veterans, enhance outreach to homeless veterans, and expand 
health care for female veterans. The bill also provides for VA 
personnel improvement and quality management. Rural veterans, such as 
those in my State who face challenges accessing health care every day, 
will benefit from this bill. It expands telemedicine programs and 
provides the Department of Veterans Affairs authority to recruit and 
retain high-quality health professionals in rural communities. The bill 
also improves mental health care. Eligibility to receive readjustment 
counseling for Iraq and Afghanistan vets, including the National Guard 
and reservists, will increase.

So many issues facing our veterans today are addressed in S. 1963. 
Passage of this legislation and its enactment into law will improve and 
increase services for veterans and acknowledge the sacrifice of their 
caregivers.

Yet even as Veterans Day approaches, a Member of the Senate has 
placed a hold on this bill, denying better services for our veterans. I 
cannot imagine why this hold has been placed on this legislation. How 
can a Member of the Senate deny our veterans better care? How can my 
Senate colleague justify his hold on a bill that helps homeless and 
wounded veterans? How can my colleague deny veteran caregivers deserved 
relief and support? There is no excuse for not supporting our veterans 
and their caregivers. They have earned better than what we have 
provided to date. This bill gives us an opportunity to provide for 
veterans and to honor their sacrifices. This bill, on which my 
colleague has placed a hold, will eliminate copayments for veterans who 
are catastrophically disabled and allow the VA to reimburse these 
veterans for emergency care at non-VA facilities. How can my colleague 
deny disabled veterans easier and less costly medical care? Veterans 
have paid their dues, and it is our turn, our duty, and our obligation 
to take care of them.

I am disappointed my Senate colleague does not share this same sense


of duty and responsibility to our Nation's heroes who have sacrificed 
so much for our very right to stand in this body and debate this 
matter. There is no good reason or rationale for a hold to be placed on 
this legislation.

I call on my colleague to remove this hold and ask my colleague to 
remember, as Veterans Day approaches, that those who have served this 
country deserve better. They have earned it. It is my obligation and 
his obligation to support our veterans and to always remember the 
sacrifice they have made.

Senator Coburn, let the Senate proceed with recognizing and providing 
for our Nation's veterans by removing your hold on S. 1963.

Again, I thank Chairman Akaka for his unwavering support and advocacy 
for our veterans.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.