---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF ARMY PRIVATE FIRST CLASS JONATHAN YANNEY
## `89f09e3e6ff1b80c3a06a665c253f6cd`
`Mr. ROSS — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. ROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a true American 
hero. On August 18, 2009, our nation lost a brave soldier when Army 
Private First Class Jonathan C. Yanney died in Arghandad, Afghanistan, 
in support of operation Enduring Freedom at 20 years of age. He died of 
wounds sustained when his military vehicle struck an improvised 
explosive device.

PFC Yanney grew up in Norwood and Litchfield, Minnesota, but his 
father resides in Grapevine, Arkansas. Although I never had the honor 
to meet PFC Yanney, on behalf of the state of Arkansas, I extend my 
utmost condolences to his family, friends and all who knew him for this 
devastating loss.

PFC Yanney was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 17th Infantry Regiment, 
5th Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division at Fort Lewis, 
Washington. He carried out his duties with pride in his country and 
without reservation and each of us owes him our eternal gratitude for 
his selfless sacrifice.

A young, decorated soldier, Yanney's awards and decorations include 
the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart, the Combat Action Badge, the 
National Defense Service Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign Medal with 
Bronze Service Star, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the 
Army Service Ribbon, the Overseas Service Bar, the Army Good Conduct 
Medal, the Weapons Qualification Badge Bar--Weapon Rifle Expert, and 
the NATO Medal.

My deepest thoughts and prayers are with his mother, Jane; his 
father, Russ; his brother, Josh; and, the rest of his family, friends 
and loved ones during this difficult time.

Today, I ask all members of Congress to join me as we honor the life 
of Army Private First Class Jonathan Yanney and his legacy and all 
those men and women in our Armed Forces who gave the ultimate sacrifice 
in service to their country.
