---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `89facb65608ed036fe1894f54b5884ac`
`Mr. MAHONEY of Florida — 22 January 2007`

---


Mr. MAHONEY of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my good friend 
from Arkansas for yielding to me tonight. I stand here today 
representing the great State of Florida's 16th Congressional District, 
a district that spans from the Atlantic to the Gulf of Mexico and 
represents the hopes and aspirations of all Floridians.

I stand here as a freshman member of the Blue Dog Coalition 
supporting our resolution demanding that the administration account for 
the Iraq war in a manner that lets this Nation see the true costs of 
the undertaking, and ensuring that our brave men and women who are 
fighting for our freedom are not being robbed by profiteers and 
inefficient government bureaucracy.

What got me was that not only was the deficit a tax on my daughter, 
Bailey's, future, but this administration was not leveling with the 
American people. This administration was not telling the people the 
true cost of their programs, telling us that these tax breaks for the 
wealthiest were driving us to the poor house, cutting revenues when 
increasing government by over 30 percent.

Now, do not get me wrong. I believe in smaller, more efficient 
government. I do not believe we need to raise taxes. However, as a 
businessman, I believe in living within one's means, having to make 
tough choices so that we can determine what is important, determining 
what our national priorities are and making those hard choices.

The fact that this administration has calculatingly funded this war 
with emergency supplemental appropriations so that the American people 
would not see the true cost is wrong. This Congress and the American 
people have the right to determine for themselves if the results 
justify the expenses. Looking at the budget cuts our children had to 
endure when he cut Head Start, when he unfunded No Child Left Behind, 
cutting the budget for health services for our veterans, cutting 
funding for law enforcement programs while violent crime is on the 
rise, making a decision to leave our ports unsecured by not inspecting 
the hundreds of thousands of containers that enter this country every 
year.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve to have all of the facts so 
that they can make their own decision. This resolution calls on the 
President to budget for the Iraq war like he budgets for everything 
else. No longer can this country afford the President standing in front 
of the American people and declaring fiscal victory when he loses less 
of our money than he projected, declaring victory when we are running 
record deficits and not adding the cost of the Iraq war.

These are real losses, these are real debts, debts to be repaid with 
our tax dollars. Further, this resolution calls for the President to be 
a good steward of our money by asking for accountability in how our 
hard-earned money is spent. Our resolution specifically calls on 
Congress to perform this congressional responsibility to provide 
oversight and make sure that our brave men and women fighting for our 
liberty get everything they need to come home and make those who would 
steal from them pay the price.

This is not a new idea. President Truman, as a U.S. Senator, did 
exactly that during World War II, a Democrat in Congress providing 
oversight to a Democratic administration. Imagine that. What a novel 
idea.

Tonight I call upon the American people to let the President know 
that regardless of whether you support the war in Iraq or not, you 
expect him to level with the American people.