# IRAQ ASSESSMENT
## `89fe65f091006de9474e39c45b862008`
`Mrs. BLACKBURN â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mrs. BLACKBURN. I thank the gentleman for yielding back the time. And 
I am so pleased to see these pictures. And I appreciate so much his 
participation in this, and the conversation about the establishment of 
commerce and how he witnessed this firsthand with shops that were open. 
As he said, one little side street where they went there were about 12 
shops that were on that. And indeed, these are more like stalls that we 
would have at one of our swap meets or flea markets. But as you can 
see, they're full of kids that are happy, that are playing, that are 
enjoying being around the normalcy of a life. They are full of commerce 
and goods, items that are coming in for sale. We even saw soft drinks, 
Coca-Cola. In Afghanistan, we saw cell phones that were being sold. So, 
in this region of the world, the commerce that is there on the ground.

And in talking about Iraq, the gentleman mentioned the local 
stability. And indeed, that was something we had the opportunity to 
witness, also, and we're pleased to see that. We had a visit to Urbil 
in Kurdistan, had the opportunity to go to the home of the Prime 
Minister of Kurdistan. We drove to that home. Mr. Speaker, I want to be 
certain that everyone realizes what I just said. We drove to the home 
of the Prime Minister of Kurdistan for lunch and joined him where he 
thanked us profusely for all that the U.S. Armed Forces have done for 
that region, not only in the past few years, but for the decade prior.

While we were in Iraq, we had the opportunity to go to the home of 
Deputy Prime Minister Barzani, to his home in the Green Zone to meet 
with him. And I will tell you, we visited with him about how hopeful we 
had experienced the mood of the people. There is a sense of hope that 
things are getting better, that there is a return to normalcy in their 
everyday life, and how encouraging to us it was to witness this 
hopefulness.

His comment to us was, we know that sometimes people get frustrated 
with us, but do not give up this mission. Do not give up on this 
mission because things are trending the right direction. Indeed, Mr. 
Speaker, it's all important components in winning, in having Iraq be a 
nation that can function with some predictability, stability and self-
governance.

It is also important because, as we look at defeating terrorists who 
want to defeat us, it is important that we win the war of ideas. And 
the photos that Dr. Burgess shared with us, the young men in those 
photos, we have to win the war of ideas with them to reach them, to 
make certain that over the next decade, as they begin an adult life, 
that they make a choice to live in freedom rather than choosing a life 
under a dictator.

Indeed, our job is also to make certain that our troops have what 
they need to do their job. And that is a responsibility of this House, 
as the President said last night. And certainly, as we are in the midst 
of a swing, a dramatic swing, if you will, in the momentum in Iraq, 
especially on the security situation, it is imperative that we pay 
close attention to meeting the needs of those troops.

Now, quite frankly, Mr. Speaker, I will tell you, I do not think it 
is helpful to this situation that we debated over 30 different 
resolutions about Iraq and timelines and withdrawals and trying to 
micromanage what is taking place on the ground because there has been a 
swing and a shift. We have transitioned from 2.5 years of increases in 
violence with more than 24 weeks of a steady decline.

Now, Dr. Burgess mentioned, when we go to Iraq, and I want to clarify 
one thing here before I move on, this week I had the opportunity to 
visit with the Tennessee Marine Family Association, and what a 
wonderful, wonderful group of moms and dads and brothers and sisters 
and marines who have retired from active duty. And I enjoyed my time 
with them tremendously. And one of them said, you know, tell me, when 
you go to Iraq, why do you go? And are you taking the troops' time away 
from work in the field? And I said no, we go because we are asked to 
go, especially those of us that have posts. As I've said, Fort 
Campbell, the 101st is in my district, and they invite us and ask us to 
come and see how they are carrying out their mission and experience 
that firsthand with them.



But as Dr. Burgess said, when we make those trips, we have the power 
points and we have the briefings from the commanders on the ground and 
we have the opportunity while we are there to hold a town hall meeting, 
if you will, with our troops that are deployed and are carrying out 
this mission. So I have put some of that endless power point onto some 
charts that I would like to share with those who are watching us this 
evening.

The first chart that I'm going to show you is one that comes from our 
commanders there in Iraq, and it shows their assessment of al Qaeda 
Iraq. And many times people will see AQI, that is, the abbreviation for 
al Qaeda Iraq, and where they were when the surge began last year. And 
you can see the dark red areas. It shows where they were operating, and 
the pink areas show what were their transit routes. And you can see how 
in the city of Baghdad where they were operating, and then as you look 
at the country you can see where they were transiting in and out of the 
country and then where they were holding their primary areas of 
operation. Again, the pink shading is their transit areas, and the red 
is where they were operational and where they were working. And the 
inset is Baghdad and what we saw in Baghdad and how that looked before 
the surge began.

Now I want to move to the second chart and show you what this looks 
like today. This is what Iraq looks like today. And, again, this is not 
my chart. This is a chart from our commanders on the ground in Iraq. 
This is their assessment.



So, Mr. Speaker, to the American people that are watching this 
tonight, I will simply say this is the chart that is your commanders' 
assessment of where al Qaeda is as of December 2007. And, of course, al 
Qaeda is still a threat. Of course, they are still there. But as you 
can see, by looking at the pink areas and the red areas, this has been 
diminished. They have been pushed out of the urban centers, look at the 
inset, with Baghdad. You can see where they have been squeezed down and 
where they have been moved to and how much smaller their area of 
operation is and how much smaller their transit area is. They know that 
the Iraqi people, the Iraqi forces, and the U.S. Armed Forces and our 
coalition forces mean business on this.

Look at the map of the entire country. When you can see their egress, 
ingress with the surrounding countries, and then see the pockets where 
al Qaeda Iraq is still operational. So they have been pushed out of 
many of the urban areas, and they have been moved over into some of the 
isolated rural areas.

I want to touch base too on our troops' contribution to this because 
it has been significant. Our U.S. Armed Forces and the 30,000 that went 
in for the surge made a marked difference. And I think there is, of 
course, the physical strength that our troops brought to this, the 
firepower, if you will, and the training and the strength and the 
determination. There are no better forces on the face of the Earth than 
the U.S. military. And we also have to recognize the Iraqis and the 
force that they brought to bear on this.

When we talk about the surge, sometimes many of us think only in 
terms of the 30,000 of our troops that have led the way in this fight. 
What we have to realize also is that we have 110,000 Iraqi troops that 
have lent their power to this effort, 110,000. They were joined in this 
effort by 70,000 local citizens.

Dr. Burgess mentioned earlier the local stability, and there is a 
reason for that. You had 70,000 Iraqi citizens that basically banded 
together in what we would call a ''neighborhood watch,'' and they 
decided to take things into their own hands and to take responsibility. 
And in many of these areas in the surge the Iraqi troops would lead. 
They were coached. They were trained. They were supported in so many 
ways by our U.S. military and by our coalition forces. And the local 
Iraqi citizen groups would work with those military forces, those 
combined forces. So together you had 180,000 Iraqis working with our 
30,000 U.S. troops that have made this surge successful and have 
changed that map so that it looks today like it does, with al Qaeda 
being moved into some isolated areas and with more of the country being 
able to function with a sense of normalcy.

Now, we've already talked a little bit about al Anbar province and 
the success that was there because that is where al Qaeda Iraq had 
planted its flag. It was the capital of the caliphate, and that is 
where they were going to put down roots, if you will. What we saw 
happen in al Anbar province during the surge, I think, is just nothing 
short of remarkable, and the photos that you've just seen from the 
streets of Ramadi and the commerce that was taking place and the 
difference that the surge has made there. Basically, the citizens of 
Ramadi and al Anbar province said we are sick and tired of this. We do 
not want al Qaeda Iraq to be running the show in our town. So they 
joined with the Iraqi troops and the U.S. troops, and they literally 
threw al Qaeda out.

So many of the experts tell us that this is the first place that the 
Arab people have stood up to their own and have rejected, openly 
rejected, al Qaeda and have defeated al Qaeda. And I think that that is 
significant. And, Mr. Speaker, I believe and I certainly am hopeful in 
believing that we are going to see other areas follow the lead that al 
Anbar has set.

Now, we have seen some other effects of that team effort over the 
past year, and I want to move on to a couple of other charts. Now, this 
is the overall attack trends, Iraq attack trends; and it shows you what 
has happened, if you look from December 2006, and where your attacks 
were in December 2006, with over 5,000, and then you go up into April 
and May where they reach their height, and then you can see where they 
have dropped down, less than half, and the reduction that is there. It 
is actually down about 60 percent by the time you get to December 2007. 
That is the difference that the surge has made. From December 2006, 
where you're up above 5,000 attacks and then coming down where you have 
seen that number drop by about 60 percent. That's the difference that 
the surge has made in the overall attacks.

Well, let's look at the IED explosions. This is something that our 
constituents always ask us about because they hear so much about the 
explosive devices and the way these IEDs and these IED systems are 
developed and set up and the way those explosions are carried out.

You can see, if you go in here and you look at December 2006, where 
they are. They move up in June to a high of about 1,700, and then take 
a look over here, about 700 in December. And there you go from 
beginning to the end of surge, the year of the surge, and what you have 
seen. It is almost as if you have al Qaeda jumping in here and saying 
we're not going to let them get the best of us. They give it a shot, 
and then in June look how every single month you're dropping. And 
that's the difference that a year of the surge has made.

Let's move on to another figure on this chart, the killed-in-action 
figure. And as we look at this chart and we see the dramatic drop that 
is here, Mr. Speaker, we feel so deeply for the families that have 
experienced a loss, and at Fort Campbell we have seen some losses 
recently, and we just continue to hold those families close. And we are 
grateful, so grateful, to them for their service, for their sacrifice, 
and we grieve with them in those losses. And we know that over the 
course of the year we have seen a dramatic decrease in those losses.

Now, chart number six, the Iraqi civilian deaths attributed to 
violence, these have dropped significantly. And you can see in December 
2006, where we were at about 3,000 and then where we are way down, well 
under 1,000 by the time we get to December 2007. So this shows us how 
security is improving. Ethnosectarian violence has dropped by about 85 
percent. All of these are the right type trend. And it shows how things 
are moving a little bit at a time, moving in the right direction.

We know there are no guarantees. This is tough. Our military men and 
women know that they are fighting and winning every day. But, Mr. 
Speaker, I will tell you they do know that they are seeing some 
successes, that security is improving, and that they are seeing some 
success with economic issues. And I want to give you just a couple of 
examples of these.

I had made a comment as we were leaving Baghdad the other night, and 
it was in the evening; so you could see the lights in Baghdad. I had 
been going in and out to visit our troops since 2003, and for the first 
time it really looked like a city. You could see the lights on all over 
the city and cars driving on the streets. You could see outdoor 
restaurants. You could see colorful awnings. You could see fruit stands 
and market areas. And it really was beginning to look like a city. And 
I did a little checking to see what kind of success stories we could 
find with the work that USAID and some of our organizations are 
providing to the area to see that commerce stand up and that sense of 
normalcy return. So let me tell you a quick little story, Mr. Speaker, 
and I think this is great.

We love success stories. We love it when we have someone who by their 
bootstraps pulls themselves up and realizes a wonderful dream of having 
a business or building a company. We as Americans love that 
entrepreneurial spirit. And I loved this story of Amhed who is in the 
Mansour neighborhood in Baghdad, and he was able to get a $2,500 
microgrant. Now, I know many of our constituents may have been reading 
in the paper about some of the microgrants and the microbusinesses that 
are going into Iraq and other countries also to help entrepreneurs 
start these businesses.

Well, Amhed used his grant to buy chest freezer shelves and an awning 
to open a store. And the store is now self-sufficient. It is supporting 
him and his family. He now is a merchant with his store, his produce 
store, on a corner there in the Mansour neighborhood in Baghdad. And it 
came about because there was a grant that helped him to get that store 
in place.



Now, this is important, Mr. Speaker, because you wouldn't go take out 
a loan and you wouldn't be approved for that loan if there was not the 
ability to put things in place and begin to see some success in that 
neighborhood.



Well, we also have another one, a juice merchant, that used a USAID 
microfinance grant and opened a juice factory in Baghdad. There's lots 
of pomegranate juice and orange juice and the different juices they are 
beginning to manufacture and bottle and sell. This juice factory in 
Baghdad, with a microfinance grant from our USAID, has created 24 full-
time jobs in Baghdad. That one little grant. And that gentleman is now 
making that juice. Of course, I said, well, I hope that Ahmed is one of 
the customers of the juice factory and selling that juice in his store 
on the corner, his produce store on the corner.

Now, I know that there are some who want to say that the security 
improvements aren't meaningful because we are not seeing enough 
political progress in Iraq. I will tell you that, and I think we all 
agree, that that political progress has not moved forward as quickly as 
we would like to. But we were reminded last week as we visited with 
Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus that the Washington clock and 
the Baghdad clock move at different speeds. You know, I guess that as 
impatient as many times as we are, we do have to realize this is a 
country that was under a dictator, a very brutal dictator for over 
three decades.

We are beginning to see some very encouraging signs of political 
progress, and I think this year is going to be a year when we see some 
more of that. Just over a week ago, the Iraqi Parliament did pass what 
was for them a very difficult law. They have taken a long time to look 
at de-Ba'athification reform, and that was passed. It has been 
difficult for them to address that central question of how the Iraqi 
people are going to deal with their past and with the legacy of Saddam 
Hussein.

The law has gone through their parliament, and it has passed. It was 
passed with Shiite sponsorship, which is significant. We have also seen 
some key Sunni political blocks return to parliament, to return to 
their work to be a part of the process.

Those are very encouraging steps. They are steps in the right 
direction. Certainly, the success of the surge has allowed the ability 
for this to take place. We have also seen the Iraqi Government has 
developed and is working on an ambitious budget. We are certainly 
hoping that they are going to do the same thing as they work through 
this current year. We have seen some encouraging signs of critical 
power sharing arrangements within the Iraqi Government. Their Prime 
Minister, Nouri Maliki, is apparently more willing to share power with 
the three-person presidency council, which represents each of the major 
sects in Iraq. So that is another sign that is very encouraging to us.

Anybody who is a serious and objective observer can say that the 
surge has worked. They admit that. We know that we are going to face 
more debate in the coming year over the length and nature and the size 
of our mission in Iraq. I would encourage all of my colleagues to take 
the success of the surge to heart and to be certain that they are not 
trying to snatch a defeat from the jaws of victory, but that they are 
being fair to our troops, that they are recognizing the success that 
these troops have given us in the surge, and that they are taking time 
to commend and thank the troops and the commanders that are on the 
ground.

I think it's fair to say, Mr. Speaker, that we all, I know I 
certainly appreciate those troops and their families, and I appreciate 
having the opportunity to support them and to let them know how much I 
appreciate having that opportunity to support them and also to honor 
them and to honor their families. My hope is that as we go through 2008 
and as we look at our legislative agenda, Mr. Speaker, I hope that the 
work of this body will honor those men and women who honor us every 
single day, who honor the legacy of freedom every single day by the way 
that they choose to carry out their job and by the way they choose to 
represent this great Nation.
