---
---

# HONORING THE 81ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM OF THE WASHINGTON ARMY NATIONAL  GUARD
## `8a056e25c687ce68e3c43ecc486055eb`
`Mr. McDERMOTT — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, I rise to voice my strong support for H. 
Res. 627, legislation I co-sponsored honoring the citizen soldiers of 
the National Guard of the State of Washington, including the 81st 
Brigade Combat Team of the Washington Army National Guard.

The National Guard plays a vital role in the defense of our 
communities and country. When we need them, they are always there, 
whether it be responding to a natural disaster at home or deploying to 
a combat zone overseas. The men and women of the Washington National 
Guard are our friends and neighbors, and their dedication and 
patriotism make us all very proud every time they put on the uniform.

More than 11,000 Washington State citizen soldiers have answered the 
call to duty since 9/11, including the 81st Brigade Combat Team that 
recently returned home from a mission in Iraq. Tragically, Specialist 
Samuel Stone, of Port Orchard, Washington, was killed during the 
deployment.

Outside my office in the Longworth House Office Building I have 
placed pictures of all the soldiers from the State of Washington who 
have died in Iraq and Afghanistan. Every day, visitors coming to or 
passing by the 7th Congressional District Office stop and look at the 
faces of the fallen. In so doing, we honor those who have died in 
service to their country and consider the consequences of sending 
soldiers off to war.

We are proud of the men and women of the Washington National Guard 
who willingly place themselves in harm's way to protect our lives, 
property and country. They deserve public recognition and our heartfelt 
thanks. I think of H. Res. 627 as a medal awarded to every citizen 
soldier for service above and beyond the call of duty. Thank you on 
behalf of a grateful State and Nation.