---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `8a075a278986367dcf6a22b8d25e690c`
`Mr. ROSS — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Tennessee for his commitment to 
our men and women in uniform. I especially appreciate it as the 
Arkansas 39th Brigade, our Arkansas National Guard, they have only been 
home for about 33 months from a year on the ground in Iraq. They have 
been called up and are now training at National Guard armories all 
across Arkansas. They will be doing that through the end of the year. 
They will be going to Mississippi in January and February and then 
sometime in March headed back to Iraq for another year of duty.

We owe it to them and their families to ensure that they are properly 
trained and to ensure that we are investing in them the very best 
equipment and technology to give them a


fighting chance, coming back, returning to their families safely.

If you have got any comments or concerns, you can e-mail us at 
BlueDog@mail.house.gov. If you have any comments, questions or 
concerns, you can e-mail us at BlueDog@mail.house.gov.

Again, the Blue Dog Coalition is a group of 47 fiscally conservative 
Democrats that, quite frankly, feel like we have been choked blue by 
the extremes of both parties, and we are just simply trying to restore 
common sense and fiscal discipline to our Nation's government. We are 
in the middle, and that's what we believe America is.

I want to thank the gentleman from Tennessee for his commitment to 
our troops, for his commitment to fiscal discipline and for sharing 
with us the piece that he recently submitted to a newspaper in his 
district. Thank you, Lincoln Davis.

I mentioned the Blue Dogs have three bills that we believe can go a 
long way toward fixing this mess, cleaning up the mess here in 
Washington. One of the bills to do that is the Fiscal Honesty and 
Accountability Act. It strengthens our commitment to fiscal 
responsibility and accountability, and reinstitutes statutory PAYGO 
rules.

It implements multiyear discretionary spending caps. It closes a 
loophole in the law that has been used to add billions of dollars in 
routine spending, and it requires the Congressional Budget Office, 
commonly referred to as the CBO, to estimate interest costs produced by 
spending in any bill. We will go over this and explain what all this 
means.

I am pleased to introduce and to yield to a fellow Blue Dog from the 
State of Indiana, who is the author of this commonsense piece of 
legislation that has been embraced by my fellow colleagues, 
conservative Democrats in the Blue Dog Coalition, and that's Baron 
Hill.