---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8a0acc521c96451bb3ef9dea0dbcfd71`
`Ms. DeGETTE â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the resolution.

I fundamentally disagree with the President's plan to add thousands 
of troops to the Iraqi conflict. It is time for a new course in Iraq, a 
rational course, a more humane course of action. It is long past time 
to start a phased withdrawal of our troops from Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, this debate is about policy and direction. Surely, the 
facts on the ground cannot be used to support continued or increased 
combat involvement in Iraq. Iraq is in a civil war. That is the truth, 
and it is time we accept the implications of that fact. Our soldiers 
have no business acting as unwanted umpires or surrogate police 
officers.

The latest National Intelligence Estimate concludes the term ''civil 
war'' accurately describes key elements of the Iraqi conflict. If this 
is the state of the current conflict, what do we expect the U.S. 
military to do about it? Settle centuries of theological or religious 
disagreement? Become diplomats? Whose side do they choose and what 
would their mission be?

I do not believe combat forces permanently stop such conflicts. The 
troops themselves tell us they are untrained for this role, a role that 
puts them at extreme risk.

Yet, the President mistakenly continues to believe we are fighting 
illusionary battalions on phantom battlefields. So, in his mind, we 
need more troops for victory, a surge that will overwhelm and destroy.

Well, that is how he sees it, but he ignores the evidence and reports 
of our generals, our troops, our Iraq Study Group, our diplomats, most 
of our allies, the views of the Iraqi people and anyone else who 
actually tries to find out the nature and state of the conflict.

He rapidly and recklessly proceeds ahead with one policy shift after 
another.

He searches for a light at the end of the tunnel, but there is no 
light. It was extinguished long ago. There is only darkness and 
despair. The chaos deepens daily, and the President sits in the Oval 
Office hoping that somehow, somehow it will turn out all right in the 
end.

This is neither policy nor leadership. The administration's policies 
are the stuff of dreams and fantasies, not hard core determinations of 
our Nation's interests or the best course for addressing strategic 
threats.

Mr. Speaker, hope is not a strategy. The escalation of troop levels 
makes no strategic sense. We must not hesitate to describe the 
President's policy in words that are honest and clear. We confront a 
policy that is wishful thinking, not realistic assessment. The 
administration's policy is like a conjuring trick of denial, delusion 
and determined folly, which will only deepen the disaster. We are given 
the vision of a make-believe story instead of a responsible and 
realistic policy.

Civil wars are solved through diplomacy, negotiation and political 
compromise. These are the types of developments identified by the NIE 
that will make a difference in Iraq. While the NIE warns against the 
rapid withdrawal of coalition troops, American forces can come home in 
a careful, safe and deliberate manner.

As the Nation's Representatives, it is our constitutional duty to 
stop this madness. It is our constitutional mandate to conduct 
oversight, and it is our constitutional imperative to act. That is what 
the Founding Fathers wanted. They constructed the Constitution to 
provide checks and balances. They did not give the President a blank 
check.

The Constitution is a sacred document to this body. We swear to 
uphold it and to defend it. We do just that when we demand 
accountability from the President. We honor our constitutional 
requirement when we scrutinize policy. We defend our constitutional 
process when we demand that the President listen to the American people 
and end unilateral actions that undermine our Nation's strength and 
place our troops in an untenable, lethal and unwinnable situation.

Mr. Speaker, I did not come here to ignore my oath to the American 
people. I did not come here to watch our Constitution be rewritten by 
presidential arrogance and disregard. And I did not come here to 
relinquish my sworn duty to protect and defend this sacred document. I 
did not come here to ignore the American people who want this war 
stopped now.

Mr. Speaker, support this resolution and begin a phased withdrawal.