# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8a1ffeb663bba220d2b6df18395e6307`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, the late Arthur Helton, perhaps our 
country's greatest advocate for the rights of refugees, wrote:




 Refugees matter . . . for a wide variety of reasons. . . . 


 Refugees are a product of humanity's worst instincts, the 


 willingness of some persons to oppress others, as well as 


 some of its best instincts, the willingness of many to assist 


 and protect the helpless. . . .


A year after he wrote those words, Arthur Helton was killed in 
Baghdad in 2003 when a bomb destroyed the U.N. headquarters in Iraq. 
His words still resonate today, especially when we consider the immense 
human cost of the war in Iraq and its tragic effect on the millions of 
Iraqis--men, women, and children--who have fled their homes, their 
country, to escape the violence of a nation at war with itself.

These brave and heroic Iraqis work with the American military, staff 
our embassy, and work with American organizations to support our 
mission in Iraq. They are among the 4 million Iraqi refugees who have 
been forced from their homes. They are the people we have an obligation 
to help.

Instead of protection, we have offered them bureaucracy and 
doublespeak, false words and dubious hopes. Despite the overwhelming 
need, the U.S. has resettled less than 2,000 Iraqis this fiscal year. 
Last night, the Senate acted and stood up to help Iraqi refugees.

I thank Senator Levin and Senator McCain for adopting our amendment, 
the Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act of 2007. I thank Senator Warner as well. 
This was cosponsored by a bipartisan group of Senators: Senators Smith, 
Levin, Hagel, Biden, Brownback, Lieberman, Leahy, Snowe, Durbin, 
Voinovich, Feinstein, Collins, Obama, Dole, Menendez, Mikulski, and 
Clinton.

The need is especially urgent for those whose work for the United 
States has put them in danger. Because they supported us, insurgents 
have repeatedly threatened to kill them. Many have lost their homes, 
their property, their livelihoods. They face ongoing threats every 
single day. Some have fled the country and are waiting in refugee 
camps, and others are in hiding. All of them hope the United States 
will not forget their sacrifices.

Still others have tried to flee, only to be stopped at the border, 
trapped in a country that cannot protect them, abandoned by a country, 
our country, that they believed would set them free. Others continue 
their work, living in fear of the day that the insurgents punish them 
for working for Americans. They are women such as Sarah, whose husband 
worked as an interpreter for the coalition forces in a combat hospital. 
Although he kept his job secret, insurgents discovered his identity. 
They broke into his family home, kidnapped her and released her only 
after torturing and raping her.

The family fled to a neighboring country where they have waited for 
almost a year in the hopes of qualifying for refugee status. Sarah's 
husband has been forced to return to Iraq. Each day that passes without 
assistance brings the rest of the family closer to an involuntary 
return to Iraq.

She wrote: Dear gentlemen: I put my suffering between your hands as 
my hope in you is great that you will hear our calling.


And there are men such as Sami who worked for USAID. He received 
several death threats, one in the form of a blood-soaked bullet sealed 
in an envelope. Sami pressed on, despite the threats, in order to help 
improve local governments and strengthen civil society.

In June 2006, a group of men armed with machine guns attempted to 
kidnap his pregnant wife and 2-year-old son outside their home. The 
attack was thwarted, but his wife nearly miscarried and his son 
suffered prolonged shock. Sami and his family fled to Jordan where they 
live day to day waiting for the labyrinthine process to rule on their 
refugee case. Our Government owes these Iraqis an immense debt of 
gratitude. Many American employees owe their lives to those Iraqis.

Despite the clear and present danger many Iraqis face based on their 
ties to the United States, their religious affiliation, or their work 
with media, nongovernmental and humanitarian organizations, the vast 
majority of Iraqi refugees must go through a long and complicated 
referral process of approximately 8 to 10 months, in which the United 
Nations serves as an intermediary. There are no provisions for 
conducting refugee screenings within Iraq as there should be.

In a recent cable, Ambassador Crocker asked the administration to 
reconsider its practices. He estimates that under the current practices 
it would take more than 2 years to process the over 10,000 referrals 
made by the United Nations. As Ambassador Crocker noted:




 Clearly, this is too long. Refugees who have fled Iraq 


 continue to be a vulnerable population while living in Jordan 


 and Syria.


Ambassador Crocker asked for the authority to process refugees in 
Iraq. He asked for the authority to provide special immigrant visas for 
those who have worked in good faith with our Government in Iraq. He 
asked to expedite the processing of refugee claims to


save lives. Surely, we can all agree with Ambassador Crocker that delay 
is unacceptable. But we must clearly do better by these Iraqis who have 
sacrificed so much for the United States.

The amendment approved by the Senate last night will cut through the 
redtape. It requires the Secretary of State to establish a refugee 
processing program in Iraq and in countries in the region for Iraqis 
threatened because of their association with the U.S. Government.

Those Iraqis who worked with our Government will be able to apply 
directly to the United States in Iraq, rather than going through the 
United Nations referral system outside Iraq. It authorizes 5,000 
special immigrant visas yearly for 5 years for Iraqis who have worked 
for the U.S. Government in Iraq and are threatened as a result. It also 
allows Iraqis in the United States who have been denied asylum because 
conditions in Iraq changed after Saddam Hussein's government fell to 
have cases reheard.

Surely, we cannot resettle all of Iraq's refugees in the United 
States, but we need to do our part. America has a special obligation to 
keep faith with the Iraqis who now have a bull's eye on their back 
because of their association with our Government.

I had the honor of meeting SGT Joseph Seemiller, a young man who is 
haunted by the military motto: Leave no man behind. Sergeant Seemiller 
is dedicated to helping the translator he was forced to leave behind in 
Iraq. On countless occasions, his translator helped to avoid several 
American and Iraqi casualties. He braved innumerable death threats and 
the horrific murder of his brother, finally fleeing to Syria where he 
has waited for more than 2 years for a chance to be resettled in the 
United States.

Those words haunt us all. I am delighted the Senate has taken this 
important step to honor our commitment to the brave men and women whose 
lives are at risk.