---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8a279f3646514c2da5c0539c9e4b6073`
`Mr. HATCH — 3 December 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to PFC Kimble 
A. Han who made the ultimate sacrifice for his country on October 23, 
2009, in Afghanistan. According to initial reports, Private First Class 
Han died of injuries sustained when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his vehicle.

Private First Class Han was assigned to the 569th Engineer Company, 
4th Engineer Battalion, Fort Carson, CO.

Private First Class Han enlisted in the Army in January of 2008 and 
by December was assigned to the combat engineers. He exhibited an 
astounding sense of devotion to duty in service to our great Nation. He 
received numerous recognitions, medals and ribbons for his service, 
including the National Defense Service Medal, the Afghanistan Campaign 
Medal with Campaign Star, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, 
Army Service Ribbon, Overseas Service Ribbon and Combat Action Badge. 
As a result of his heroic service, Private First Class Han was 
posthumously promoted to specialist. The selfless courage Kimble 
displayed in the service to our country will not be forgotten. We are 
forever in his debt.

Mr. President, let us not forgot the sacrifice of PFC Kimble A. Han. 
I am filled with deep gratitude for his service and pray for his family 
and friends throughout this difficult time. I know that I am joined by 
all my colleagues in the Senate in mourning the loss of PFC Kimble A. 
Han, our Nation's protector and hero.













Sergeant James Michael Nolen


Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to SGT James Michael Nolen 
who was killed in the line of duty on November 23, 2009, in Zabul, 
Afghanistan. Sergeant Nolen sustained fatal wounds when enemy forces 
attacked his vehicle with an improvised explosive device.

SGT James Nolen served with the 2nd Battalion, 508th Parachute 
Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, 
Fort Bragg, NC.

Sergeant Nolen truly exemplified the qualities of a dedicated soldier 
and hero. A fellow paratrooper conveyed that ''Sergeant Nolen was a 
true soldier. Nothing could take away from his warm personality. His 
caring smile and willingness to help others were his most identifiable 
features.''



James exhibited an astounding sense of devotion and duty to our great 
Nation. He received numerous recognitions, medals and ribbons for his 
service including the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart Medal, the 
Army Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement Medal, the Army Good 
Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, the Army Service Ribbon, the Overseas Service 
Ribbon, the NATO Medal, the Combat Infantryman Badge and the Basic 
Parachutist Badge.

Mr. President, I express my deepest appreciation for the selfless 
dedication this soldier proudly exhibited in service to our country. He 
courageously put himself in harm's way to defend us, and for that we 
owe him an infinite debt of gratitude. I offer my deepest condolences 
and prayers for James' family and friends during this difficult time. I 
know that I am joined by all my colleagues in the Senate in mourning 
the loss of SGT James Michael Nolen, our Nation's protector and hero.
