# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT BASIC PAY FOR MEMBERS OF ARMED  FORCES SHOULD BE INCREASED
## `8a2e36b4d99f7e1b7a81053ed845dd0d`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 6 November 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 
House Concurrent Resolution 162. By doing this, I rise in strong 
support of our men and women who deserve a pay raise.

As part of the Defense authorization, the House passed a 3.5 percent 
pay increase for our troops, half a percent larger than the President's 
budget. This means an E-4 would earn $200 a year difference in this, 
just $200 a year difference, but the President opposed this increase, 
calling it unnecessary. I don't think it's unnecessary to provide a 
decent wage for the brave men and women who sacrifice for our country. 
I once lived on military pay, and I can assure you that a decent wage 
is a requirement for military men and women and their families.

I find it ironic that the President thinks a pay raise for our troops 
is unnecessary, but he thinks it is necessary to pay contractors 
billions of dollars with no accountability at all. The President keeps 
sending our troops back again and again, and the President should at 
least be willing to give them a decent paycheck to do this job.

Madam Speaker, standing up for our troops must also mean standing up 
for their families. More than half of all servicemembers who are 
deployed to Iraq are married, and more than 40 percent of them have 
left children behind. While a half percent increase may seem small, 
when you're caring for a family, every little bit of support helps. 
This is not only the right thing to do for our troops; it's the right 
thing to do for our national security.

There is currently a 4 percent pay gap in pay between the military 
and the private sector. If we want to make sure that our armed services 
can recruit and retain the best, most talented, most highly qualified 
people, we need to provide them with comparable pay. This is especially 
critical now when we face new and emerging threats from around the 
world. And the Army began this year with the lowest number of recruits 
signed up for basic


training since the end of the draft in 1973.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution, 
supporting our national security, and supporting our troops and their 
families by giving them the pay increase they have earned.