# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `8a327974f9ad504cffe9b22eb2f4feee`
`Mr. LEVIN â€” 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I thank my friend. I want to make another point. In the 
weeks we have remaining, we not only have to get this bill passed, but 
we have to get it to conference and back in probably a record period of 
time. It is going to take all of the cooperation of the Members of the 
Senate. We are going to succeed. There are 100 reasons to do it, and 
all of them boil down to the men and women in uniform and their 
families and the security of this country. The incentive should be 
there for us to do it. Because of the long delay, we have to do it in 
record time. We have had wonderful cooperation from members of the 
committee on a bipartisan basis. We have tremendous staff members who 
have worked over the recess to get the work done so we can get this 
bill passed in a very short period of time and so that we would have a 
reasonable chance of getting this bill done in the number of weeks we 
have left.

The committee approved this bill unanimously. More than 4 months ago 
now, on April 30, we tried to bring the bill to the Senate floor. At 
the end of July, we were unable to do so because we could not obtain 
cloture on the motion to proceed. There are many important nondefense 
legislative proposals that Members would like to bring before the 
Senate to get adopted. I am one of those Members. There are a number of 
things I would love to bring before the Senate and get adopted. But we 
cannot take out our frustration on our troops. I am prepared to give up 
a whole bunch of nondefense amendments that I hoped to be able to bring 
to the Senate's attention. I am willing to give them up. I hope other 
Members who feel the same way will ensure that we have a Defense bill 
this year.

This bill is simply too important and the time available to us is too 
limited to be sidetracked by unrelated amendments, as important as they 
may be. As my dear friend from Virginia said, we have enacted a defense 
authorization act every year now for 4/1/2/ decades. During that time, 
there have been years when we had to invoke cloture to get final 
passage, years when we have had to enter unanimous consent agreements 
to expedite consideration of the bill, years in which the bill was 
vetoed and we had to start over again. There have been years in which 
we have spent weeks debating the bill on the Senate floor and months in 
conference with the House. We have had to address serious disagreements 
over issues such as base closures and missile defense. But we have 
always had a bill because Members have always understood that we have 
to do what it takes to do the right thing for our soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, marines, and their families.

These authorization bills, which come annually, contain provisions 
that improve the quality of life for our men and women in uniform and 
give them the tools they need to defend our Nation and provide critical 
reforms to improve the operations of the Pentagon. That is the case 
with this bill. The bill reported by the Armed Services Committee 3 
months ago obtains many provisions of critical importance to our 
troops.

First and foremost, the bill would increase military pay by 3.9 
percent, a half percent more than the President requested. It provides 
continued authority for the payment of enlistment and reenlistment 
bonuses, ascension and retention bonuses for servicemembers with 
critical skills who are assigned to high-priority units, and bonuses 
and incentives to reward our troops to make sure we can retain our 
people. It provides new incentives to military psychologists and the 
nursing students to address the ongoing shortages we have in these 
critical specialty areas.

At a time when thousands of our troops are deployed around the world 
and our voluntary military is strained to meet the requirements of 
ongoing conflicts, while remaining prepared for other contingencies 
these are steps that we simply must take.

When our men and women in uniform are in harm's way, there is nothing


more important for us to do. The bill would increase the end strength 
of the Army, Marine Corps, Air National Guard, and Army Reserve to 
reduce the incredible stress on our troops. It would establish and 
extend critical authorities needed by the DOD for current operations. 
For instance, it would provide the Department of Defense the 
authorization to use funds for quick turnaround construction projects 
needed to support our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. It will extend 
the DOD's authority to provide training and funds and stabilization in 
security assistance, which are so essential to the well-being of our 
troops.

The bill includes numerous other measures to improve the quality of 
life for our service men and women, retirees, and their families. For 
instance, the bill ensures that wounded and injured servicemembers will 
not be charged for meals received at military treatment facilities. It 
is so unbelievable that some of those facilities make these current 
charges, so I should repeat it. This bill will ensure that wounded and 
injured servicemembers will not be charged for meals received in 
military treatment facilities. It will provide supplemental impact aid 
for schools with large populations and military children. It authorizes 
funds for military construction projects, military family housing, and 
BRAC-related construction to ensure that our troops have the housing 
they deserve and our military has the facilities it needs for the 
national defense.

The bill will build on last year's National Guard Empowerment Act by 
requiring the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs and the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, to 
develop a strategic plan to enhance the rule of the National Guard and 
Reserves, taking into account the recent report of the Commission on 
National Guard and Reserves.

The bill will provide funding for critical initiatives, including $3 
billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization. 
That is the ongoing effort of that organization to defeat the threat of 
these explosive devices. There are over $100 million in investments in 
advanced energy and power technology to support defense missions, such 
as hybrid engines, military fuels research, and battery technology, and 
more than $120 million to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction and improve our ability to reduce and respond to threats of 
weapons of mass destruction, both at home and abroad.

Another thing this bill does is something I think every American who 
has heard about the fact that we are spending taxpayer dollars for the 
reconstruction of Iraq, while the Iraqis have about $80 billion in 
surplus funds in banks, including ours, drawing interest from the 
American taxpayers, to go to the Iraqi Government to build 
infrastructure in Iraq while they are charging us $120 a barrel and we 
are paying $4 a gallon for gasoline. When the American public focused 
on that a few weeks ago, the reaction was what we would expect. They 
were astounded that 5/1/2/ years later, $11 billion a month is going 
out of our taxpayers' pockets, while the Iraqis have a huge oil surplus 
based on the revenues they get from $120- or $130-a-barrel oil, and 
with all that money in the bank, we are still paying significant moneys 
for Iraqi reconstruction. It is unconscionable.

We have a provision in this bill that will require the Iraqis to use 
their own oil revenues rather than U.S. taxpayer dollars to pay for the 
large infrastructure projects and also for the training and equipping 
of their own military. We all remember Deputy Defense Secretary 
Wolfowitz, at the beginning of the war, who said Iraq would be able to 
''finance its own reconstruction through oil revenue.'' But that has 
not proven to be the fact. U.S. taxpayers, so far, have paid $48 
billion for stabilization and reconstruction activities in Iraq.

Again, the Iraqi Government has generated more than $100 billion in 
oil revenue since the war began and spent only a fraction of that 
amount on its own reconstruction. Under these circumstances, it is 
inexcusable and unconscionable for U.S. taxpayers to have to foot the 
bill for projects that the Iraqis are fully capable of funding 
themselves. The bill addresses that problem. We should not have to have 
legislation on that. The President ought to call the Prime Minister of 
Iraq and say: Folks, you have $80 billion. Reimburse us for the 
reconstruction. Surely, the ongoing construction should be paid for by 
Iraq's surplus. But, apparently, that is not going to happen. So this 
legislation is needed.


The bill also includes a number of measures to ensure the proper 
stewardship of taxpayer dollars. These include provisions that would 
institute improved cost control for the acquisition of major weapons 
systems, require program managers to incorporate energy efficiency 
requirements and performance parameters for such systems, and ensure 
that private security contractors don't engage in combat and combat-
related activities on the battlefield. This is a reform that has been 
needed for a long time. We have these contractors that are hired to 
perform Government functions, with combat-related duties. We simply 
have to make sure these private security contractors don't engage in 
combat-related activities in these battle zones. We have to increase 
oversight and accountability for housing privatization initiatives, and 
the bill does all that. Our acquisition system is in deep trouble. This 
bill addresses that issue.

Since the beginning of 2006, nearly half of the 95 largest 
acquisition programs of the Department of Defense have exceeded the so-
called Nunn-McCurdy cost growth standards that were established by 
Congress to identify seriously troubled programs.

I wonder if I might inquire of the Chair about the time remaining 
that I control.