---
---

# HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2008
## `8a36861c485c0a2fbbeab58c78aaf9c7`
`Mr. SESTAK — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. SESTAK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I joined up in the military during the Vietnam conflict, 
and at that time, and still today, we don't have human resource 
departments in the U.S. military. You tend, as a young division 
officer, to take care of the challenges that your young men and women 
have, and their families yourself, whether it's an eviction notice or 
whether it's a health issue, or whether it is, as thousands at that 
time and through the eighties used to have to go out and get their food 
stamps in order to continue their quality of life, you took care of 
them.

This bill takes a significant step, I believe. As Mr. Rangel 
insinuated, it's a small step, but it is a significant step. I say that 
because the most moving picture I have ever seen in the Pentagon is one 
that is across from the Secretary of Defense's office. It's of a young 
servicemember kneeling in church and alongside of him is his wife and a 
young child. And under it is this great saying from the Bible, where 
God turns to Isaiah and says, ''Whom shall I send, and who will go for 
us?'' and Isaiah replies, ''Here am I. Send me.''

We send them, and we need to welcome them when they come back. The 
commissary bags also used to have on them, ''The hardest job in the 
military is a military spouse.'' What this bill does is takes care of 
the cost of life. But it also is significant that it takes care of the 
cost of loss of life. Because what distinguishes this profession from 
anyone else's is that it has the dignity of danger about it, where the 
loss of life may occur.

So in this bill it ensures if an employer still wants to, even after 
a death of a servicemember, contribute to his retirement plan, he can. 
It also then permits the spouse, having lost a servicemember, can 
actually then place this military gratuity benefit into an IRA without 
any penalty. It does much for our servicemembers; that lets them take 
combat pay, for example, and place it towards earned income so that 
they can move into the middle class as an earned income tax credit.

In my mind, this is an excellent bill that has come out, and it has 
bipartisan agreement. But the reason I think this is so important today 
is that our servicemembers returning from overseas, 19 percent of them 
have post-traumatic stress disorder, 33 percent of them have a mental 
challenge, from depression to anxiety.

This war is different. In World War II, the average soldier went into 
battle 182 days. He had time to rest in between major battles to get 
his nerves back in shape. Our soldiers in Iraq go


outside the wire every day for 15 straight months into a combat-like 
situation. They are a strong generation, but this war is different.

So therefore as we keep that in mind for those who say, Here am I, 
send me, we should also keep in mind that what we are doing here is 
when the great warriors Jonathan and David departed for the last time 
in the Bible, Jonathan turned to David and said, Tomorrow there shall 
be a new moon and thou shall be missed because thy seat shall be empty.

This seat should never be empty. It should be filled with a legacy of 
what they have done for this Nation. This bill, in my mind, takes a 
step, a small but significant step to remembering that these men and 
women who have served this Nation should continue to be welcomed home 
by us with a legacy of thanks that this bill does.

I reserve the balance of my time.