---
---

# None
## `8a3b1ad23d797552896b19c59e74546a`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I vigorously opposed the war in 
Iraq before it began, and now, well into its fifth year, the need for a 
new policy has never been clearer. The toll of this war has been 
devastating: more than 3,600 of our most courageous men and women 
killed, tens of thousands seriously wounded; the toll on civilians much 
higher still. And while we struggle to fund domestic priorities in 
Vermont, in all our States across this Nation, health care, a crumbling 
infrastructure, transportation, the cost of education, we now spend $12 
billion every single month on this war.

From last November's elections, to public opinion polls, to the 
comments I hear from Vermonters every single day, the voice of the 
American people is loud and it is clear: we must end this war. And 
since the President refuses, absolutely refuses, to act, Congress must. 
Since the President refuses, Congress must make it clear that the 
United States will not maintain permanent military bases in Iraq. Since 
the President refuses, Congress must denounce the use of torture. It 
must finally close Guantanamo Bay. And since the President refuses, 
Congress must bring our troops home and ensure they receive the care 
they deserve when they return.

Mr. Speaker, 7 months ago, under the leadership of the previous 
Congress, a bill like this never would have been allowed to come to the 
floor. Now, 7 months later, today, there is an emerging bipartisan 
consensus that the President must be forced to change his course.

By passing this bill today, Congress will demonstrate with the force 
of law what the American people well know: it is time to end the war in 
Iraq.

I cosponsored and voted in favor of legislation offered by my 
colleague Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts that called for redeployment of 
our troops from Iraq within 6 months. I voted against additional funds 
for the war without a timeline. And I cosponsored legislation that 
would close Guantanamo Bay, outlaw torture, defend the right of habeas 
corpus, and prohibit the establishment of permanent military bases.

At the end of the day, Americans know that no action in the House of 
Representatives is not enough until all of our troops are returned 
home. This bill provides a starting point for progress towards 
realizing that goal. Until our troops are home, I will not stop, and 
Congress must not stop in its efforts to compel the President to end 
this war.