# HONORING COMMAND SERGEANT MAJOR OTIS SMITH, JR.
## `8a3c2950fa1a2fe7a14ea79019b8aa17`
`Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky — 23 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay public 
tribute to Command Sergeant Major Otis Smith, Jr., an exemplary citizen 
and soldier from my Congressional District retiring this month after 33 
years of military service. CSM Smith currently serves as Armor Center 
and Fort Knox, KY CSM.

CSM Smith entered the Army in March 1975 as a cavalry scout and 
graduated from OSUT at Ft. Knox, Kentucky. His first assignment was 
with A Troop, 15th Cavalry at Fort Benning, GA, as a loader and driver 
of a Sheridan. He was later assigned to 1-64 Armor in Kitzingen, 
Germany as a gunner for the improved tow vehicle.

In November of 1978, CSM Smith was assigned to Fort Knox, KY, as an 
Instructor for 19D Advanced Individual Training. He served as a Drill 
Sergeant at Fort Knox from 1980 to 1982.

CSM Smith returned to 1-64 Armor in Kitzingen, Germany, in September 
1982, where he served as a Scout Squad Leader and Platoon Sergeant. He 
served as an instructor at the Primary Leadership Development Course at 
Fort Bliss, TX from 1985 to 1989. CSM Smith returned to Europe in 
November 1989 to serve as an Evaluator and Observer/Controller for 
Bradley Gunnery at the 7th Army Training Center in Vilseck, Germany. In 
1993 he was assigned to 2-37 Armor (Vilseck) and served as the acting 
Operation Sergeant Major for six months before assuming duties as First 
Sergeant of C/2-37 Armor, with a tour of duty at TF Able Sentry 
(Macedonia) from March to September 1996.

CSM Smith's next assignment took him to Fort Stewart, GA, where he 
served as the Operation Sergeant Major of 3-69 Armor for eight months. 
CSM Smith attended the Sergeants Major Academy from August 1997 to May 
1998, subsequently returning to Fort Stewart where he assumed duties as 
the Operation Sergeant Major of 2d Brigade, 3d Infantry Division, with 
a deployment to ''Operation Desert Fox.''

In March of 1999 CSM Smith assumed the duties as CSM of 1-64 Armor. 
In April of 2001, after a successful SFOR 8 rotation, CSM Smith assumed 
the duties as the 2d Brigade CSM, with deployments to ''Operation 
Desert Spring'' and ''Operation Iraqi Freedom.'' CSM Smith served as 
the Armor School CSM from August 2003 to July 2005 before receiving his 
current assignment.

CSM Smith was a tireless advocate of Fort Knox's military value and 
future viability in the months leading up to the 2005 Base Realignment 
and Closure consideration. He has remained a valuable steward at the 
Armor School and throughout the Installation during this time a war and 
administrative transition.

CSM Smith's awards and decorations include the Legion of Merit, the 
Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with two Oak Leaf 
Clusters, Army Commendation Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters, Army 
Achievement Medal with six Oak Leaf Clusters, Good Conduct Medal, U.N. 
Medal, Global War of Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, NATO Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, 
Armed Forces Service Medal, Army Superior Unit Award, Drill Sergeant 
Badge and the Order of Saint George.

It is my great privilege to recognize Command Sergeant Major Otis 
Smith, Jr. today, before the entire U.S. House of Representatives, for 
his lifelong example of leadership and service. His unique achievements 
and dedication to the men and women of the U.S. Army make him an 
outstanding American worthy of our collective honor and respect.
