---
---

# DEATH OF NICOLE SUVEGES IN IRAQ
## `8a5021686cc3b693abddfcca2cab666a`
`Mr. DURBIN — 27 June 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I have just learned of the death in Iraq 
of an extraordinarily brave woman from my State of Illinois who died 
this week in a bombing in the Sadr City section of Baghdad. Nicole 
Suveges was a civilian assigned to the 3rd Brigade Combat Team for the 
4th Infantry Division.

She was a political scientist from Illinois and a doctoral student at 
Johns Hopkins University. She was participating in a program that 
embeds academics into military units to help personnel in Iraq and 
Afghanistan navigate difficult local environments.

She chose to go to Iraq for her employer, BAE Systems, because she 
was interested in learning how people make the transition from an 
authoritarian society to freedom; that was the focus of her doctoral 
dissertation. She hoped she might use her knowledge to help Iraqis 
develop the habits and institutions of democracy.

When she died in a bombing on Tuesday, she was helping local 
officials mediate disputes in Sadr City. Also killed in the blast were 
two U.S. soldiers and a State Department Foreign Service Officer.

Iraq was not the first war zone Nicole had worked in. She served as 
an Army Reservist in Bosnia in the 1990s.

Nicole graduated from the University of Illinois in Chicago in 1992. 
She was 38 years old. She was one of more than 180 American civilians 
to die in the war in Iraq. Their deaths are in addition to the 4,113 
members of the U.S. military who have lost their lives in Iraq.

Nicole Suveges represented what is best about America. She used her 
considerable courage and knowledge to try to help heal a badly scarred 
nation and help Iraqis create for themselves a freer, more secure 
future. Her death is a loss to Iraq, to America, and to the world.

We extend our condolences to her husband and family, and her friends 
and colleagues. I ask unanimous consent that a CNN account of Nicole 
Suveges' life and work be printed in the Record.