# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8a567361f8f285b399ba390f094d2882`
`Mr. KYL â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. I appreciate the comments of my colleague. Let me reiterate, 
it seems to me if one is outraged, and if one believes the war should 
end now, before another life is lost, instead of arguing about how many 
months there are between troop deployments and making that the 
attempted argument here, that you ought to get right to the bottom line 
and decide to cut off the money for the war.

I have a different point of view. Of course, I am not going to vote 
for that amendment because I believe that General Petraeus, having been 
unanimously confirmed, has an opportunity and basically the right to 
expect our support in carrying out the mission which we have sent him 
to achieve and which we have sent all these soldiers and marines and 
others to achieve as well.

We undercut that mission by cutting it short, by cutting off our 
support. It is not a matter of giving it more time. The last brigade of 
the five brigades that were brought in on the surge just got into 
theater. This surge has just gotten underway in its full form and 
General Petraeus has said he is going to come back in September and 
give us a report on how he thinks it is going. Obviously, it will be an 
interim report. One couldn't expect necessarily that all the results 
could be achieved in the short period of time between now and 
September. But, nonetheless, that will be a time when he can come back 
and give us a report.

I suggest we ought to at least wait until we receive that report 
before concluding that all is lost and that we have to bring the troops 
home and that that is the best way to support them. They don't believe 
that. I have spoken to the troops in Iraq. They believe they are 
winning and that they can win. Early reports from this surge suggest 
they are right.

I am not going to prejudge it, however. All I ask of my colleagues is 
that they not prejudge it either, that they not come in here with a 
defeatist attitude and say all is lost, it can't work, we should bring 
everybody home, and it doesn't matter whether General Petraeus has just 
gotten started, it doesn't matter that we have confirmed him 
unanimously and that we have sent him into harm's way to accomplish 
this mission. None of that matters. Our political judgment is all that 
matters and we ought to begin a withdrawal.

That is fundamentally wrong, and I am glad my colleagues will defeat 
these amendments which would have the effect of undercutting our 
mission and, as I said, the mission and morale of our troops.

I wished to speak briefly to the amendment of Senator Lieberman, who 
has been a stalwart and steadfast beacon of truth--truth that needs to 
be spoken to the kind of threats this country faces, especially with 
respect to the overall terrorist threat, both as it emanates from 
terrorist groups and also as it is supported by state sponsors of this 
terrorism. That is what his amendment goes to. It goes to the state 
sponsorship of terrorism by the state of Iran.

It is an excellent amendment which needs to be adopted by this body, 
in my view. As he has noted, Iran has a long history of supporting 
terrorism and it continues to develop a nuclear capability. It is 
actively undermining our efforts in Iraq. It is responsible for the 
death of Americans, and it needs to be confronted.

Senator Lieberman's amendment documents many of Iran's dangerous 
actions in Iraq and it directs, in its conclusion, a regular report to 
Congress to better inform us and the American people of the destructive 
and intolerable role of Iran. We need this information to help 
formulate our policies as well as to mobilize public opinion to support 
them.

Let me discuss a few of the items that are in his proposal and why it 
needs to be supported by this body. We know that Iran has become the 
primary ideological, financial, and logistical supporter of terrorists 
seeking to attack the West and one of the major financial supporters. 
We know because the U.S. Department of State has listed Iran as a state 
sponsor of terrorism. It is one of only five countries in the world to 
be so designated.


The State Department's most recent report stated: ''Iran remains the 
most significant state sponsor of terrorism.''

This is not in doubt. It provides significant financial backing to 
terrorist groups such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and Islamic Jihad in an 
organized effort to undermine the Israeli-Palestinian peace as well as 
our efforts throughout the Middle East. It is trying to undermine 
moderate regimes throughout the Middle East, to establish itself as the 
dominant regional power--this, by the way, being considered a matter of 
great concern by other nations in the region. It wants to reshape the 
region in its own ideological image.

Iranian-sponsored terrorism has caused the death of Americans, for 
example, in the 1996 Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia, where 19 
U.S. servicemembers were killed. It provided assistance to al-Qaida. 
According to the 9/11 Commission report, in late 1991 and 1992, 
discussion in Sudan between al-Qaida and Iranian operatives led to an 
informal agreement to cooperate and provide support, even if only 
training for actions carried out primarily against Israel and the 
United States. Not long afterward, senior al-Qaida operatives and 
trainers traveled to Iran to receive training in explosives.

Iran has continued its relations with al-Qaida. At least eight of the 
9/11 hijackers traveled through Iran between October of 2000 and 
February of 2001. Its aggressive sponsorship of terrorism is a vital 
national security threat to the United States.

Let me mention its nuclear capability. It continues to defy the 
international community by developing its nuclear capability. Nuclear 
weapons in the hands of the most significant state sponsor of terrorism 
is a risk to the United States, and we have to do everything we can to 
prevent that. The most recent evidence includes the apparent 
construction of a new tunnel complex near one of Iran's major nuclear 
sites. A former United Nations weapons inspector, David Albright, noted 
Iran built a tunnel complex near the Isfahan uranium conversion plant 
in order to protect a range of nuclear-related equipment and that Iran 
may be construct a similar facility near Natanz, fearing that the 
underground halls at Natanz are vulnerable to destruction by military 
attack.

I support the administration's commitment to pursuing a diplomatic 
solution to this danger, but although the United Nations has imposed 
sanctions on Iran, nothing has come of this. If Iran continues to 
develop its nuclear capability, obviously we maintain the right to take 
appropriate action, and I therefore will continue to support efforts to 
marginalize this threat that Iran poses to the West and to the United 
States.

Finally, let me make a comment about the undermining of our efforts 
in Iraq. This is the most immediate threat from Iran, and it is a 
significant focus of the amendment of Senator Lieberman. The most 
recent Country Reports on Terrorism from the State Department states:




 Iran . . . continues to threaten its neighbors and 


 destabilize Iraq by providing weapons, training, advice and 


 funding to select Iraqi Shia militants.


Then-Ambassador to Iraq Khalilzad stated last year:




 We can say with certainty that they support groups that are 


 attacking coalition troops. These groups are using the same 


 ammunition to destroy armored vehicles that the Iranians are 


 supplying to Hezbollah in Lebanon. They provide money to 


 Shiite militias and they train some of the groups. We can't 


 say whether Tehran is supporting al-Qaida but we do know that 


 al-Qaida people come here from Pakistan through Iran. Ansar 


 al-Sunna, a partner organization of Zarqawi's network, has a 


 base in northwest Iran.





General Petraeus recently stated:




 The level of financing, the level of training on Iranian 


 soil, the level of equipping some sophisticated technologies 


 with explosives and so forth, even advice in some cases, has 


 been very, very substantial and very harmful.


Iranian interference in Iraq is not the rogue actions of low-level 
personnel. Here is what General Petraeus recently stated, which I think 
is critical:




 We know that it goes as high as Brigadier General Qassem 


 Suleimani, who is the head of . . . the Qods Force . . . of 


 the Iranian Guards Corps. That is quite high level. We 


 believe he works directly for the supreme leader of the 


 country.


This support is material and is leading directly to the deaths of 
American servicemembers.

Brigadier General Bergner, spokesman for the Multi-National Force in 
Iraq, recently stated that the Quds Force operates three camps near 
Tehran and that:




 [The] Qods Force, along with Hezbollah instructors, train 


 approximately 20 to 60 Iraqis at a time, sending them back to 


 Iraq organized into these special groups. They are being 


 taught how to use [Explosively Formed Penetrators], mortars, 


 rockets, as well as intelligence, sniper and kidnapping 


 operations. In addition to training, the Qods Force also 


 supplies the special groups with weapons and funding of 


 $750,000 to $3 million U.S. a month.


In February, the U.S. military reported that at least 170 deaths of 
coalition troops could be attributed to weapons with ties to Iran.

Iranian actions are killing Americans and undermining our efforts in 
Iraq. The Congress needs to take this threat seriously and begin to 
take appropriate actions to deal with it. Senator Lieberman's amendment 
is an important step in dealing with the threat that Iran is imposing.

I urge my colleagues to support the amendment.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that an op-ed, written by 
Senator Lieberman and carried in the Wall Street Journal on July 6, 
2007, be printed in the Record.