---
---

# THE FUTURE FOR AFGHANISTAN
## `8a572a8d8eeeaeb809152e7c2639a383`
`Ms. WOOLSEY — 13 February 2009`

---


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to shine a light on U.S. 
foreign policy, specifically our military presence in Afghanistan.

President Obama did not ask for this war. He inherited it, along with 
Iraq, a destabilized Middle East and a weakened American reputation 
overseas.

Mr. Speaker, President Obama is doing exactly what he said he would. 
He has called on his top military and diplomatic leaders to develop a 
plan for the future of Afghanistan. Already he has reached out to 
Congress to get our input.

That's why this week Congresswomen Barbara Lee and Maxine Waters and 
I sent a letter to the President outlining congressional priorities 
regarding Afghanistan. We applauded the President for his strong 
leadership on an intelligent foreign policy and national security 
strategy, particularly his emphasis on diplomacy and international 
partnerships.

We pledged to work with him and work with his administration to 
implement a foreign policy that stresses cooperation, conflict 
resolution and humanitarian assistance.

We expressed our support and pleasure over his commitment to bring 
our troops home from Iraq in 16 months.

Mr. Speaker, this administration has called Afghanistan the central 
front in the fight against terrorism. So, in an effort to promote 
better cooperation in our Nation's diplomatic development and military 
involvement in Afghanistan, our letter to President Obama outlined 
policy benchmarks which many of us in Congress support and, by the way, 
most Americans. These benchmarks include a clear authorization of the 
use of military force be established. Defined goals and objectives and 
benefits of U.S. involvement in Afghanistan.

We asked that he determine the human and financial resources 
necessary to carry out the administration's plan and provide us with a 
time line for the redeployment of troops and military contractors.

The role of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO; the United 
Nations, the U.N.; and other international partners must also be 
clearly delineated.

The immediate humanitary and economic needs of Afghan people must 
also be met, we told him.

Well, Mr. Speaker, as our national policy for Afghanistan is 
established, Members of Congress and all Americans anticipate an honest 
and open discussion about the challenges that lie ahead. And with that, 
we look forward to working with this administration to advance a 
responsible and a smart strategy through the Middle East and Central 
Asia, a path to real peace, and a path to economic security worldwide.
