---
---

# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `8a5d3127a3b3e74beb0c0ebf441db8d7`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, since the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
1938, Congress has required employers to pay a minimum wage. Congress 
enacted the current general minimum wage of $5.15 an hour in 1996. That 
works out to be about $10,712 a year. Currently, about 2 million 
workers get paid the Federal minimum wage or less.

A decade has passed since the last increase. That marks the longest 
period in history without an adjustment to the minimum wage. During 
that time, a majority of States have enacted minimum wages higher than 
the current Federal level. This includes my home State of Montana.

Montanans recognized that the minimum wage must be increased. I am 
proud that in November our State voted to raise that State's minimum 
wage from $5.15 an hour to $6.15 an hour. It was a step in the right 
direction.

An increase in the minimum wage would affect millions more than those 
who earn minimum wage because many workers earn slightly more than 
minimum wage and may also see an increase.

Some worry that an increase in the minimum wage will burden small 
businesses. Small businesses create jobs, economic opportunity, and 
technological innovation.

Smaller businesses employ a disproportionate share of workers earning 
the minimum wage. Representatives of small businesses have, therefore, 
argued that any increase should be accompanied by tax incentives 
targeted for small businesses in order to lower their costs.

There are about 23 million small businesses in our country. 
Businesses with fewer than 500 employees represent more than 99.9 
percent of all American businesses. They pay nearly half the total 
American private payroll. They have generated 60 to 80 percent of the 
new jobs annually over the last decade, and they employ 41 percent of 
high-tech workers.

Small business is particularly important in rural States such as 
Montana. Rural communities generally do not have large employers. Rural 
families rely on small businesses for jobs.

The Finance Committee has jurisdiction over taxes. The committee held 
a hearing on January 10 of this year entitled ''Tax Incentives for 
Businesses in Response to a Minimum Wage Increase.'' The committee 
heard from a variety of witnesses, including labor economists, small 
business owners, and tax experts.

Following that hearing, the committee held a markup on January 17. 
The committee considered an original bill called the Small Business and 
Work Opportunity Act of 2007. That bill is a revenue-neutral bill 
containing a number of tax incentives for small businesses and 
businesses that hire minimum wage workers. The committee favorably 
reported that bill by unanimous voice vote, and the majority leader 
included that bill in its entirety in his amendment to the bill before 
us today.

The substitute would help business owners to afford new equipment and 
property for their businesses by extending section 179 expensing for 
another year.

In order to carry out day-to-day activities, small business owners 
are often required to invest significant amounts of money in 
depreciable property, such as machinery. While these large purchases 
are necessary to operate a business, they generally require 
depreciation across a number of years. But depreciation requires 
additional bookkeeping. Section 179 expensing allows for immediate 100 
percent deduction of the cost of most personal property purchased for 
use in a business. In


2007, small business owners could deduct up to $112,000 of equipment 
expenses.

When small business owners are able to expense equipment, they no 
longer have to keep depreciation records on that equipment. So 
extending section 179 expensing would ease small business bookkeeping 
burdens.

The substitute would allow small business owners to quickly recover 
the cost of improvements to their establishments through extension and 
expansion of the 15-year straight line appreciation period for 
leaseholds and restaurant improvements.

Allowing retailers and restaurants to use a 15-year straight line 
depreciation period means that when an entrepreneur opens a business 
and remodels the property, that investment could be recovered over a 
period of time more closely reflecting wear and tear. It used to be 39 
years.

In 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act shortened the cost recovery 
of certain leasehold improvements and restaurant property for 39 years 
to 15 years for the remainder of 2004 and 2005. The Tax Relief and 
Health Care Act of 2006 extended this provision to the end of 2007.

At the Finance Committee minimum wage hearing held January 10, small 
business owners testified that a shorter 15-year recovery period for 
restaurant and building leasehold property reflects the true economic 
life of the improvements. And they testified that businesses put more 
money into their operations if they know they can recover their 
improvement costs over 15 years instead of 39.

The substitute would extend the 15-year recovery period for leasehold 
and restaurant improvements and would also broaden the provision to 
allow retail owners and new restaurants to take advantage of this 
shortened depreciation period.

These are changes that Senator Conrad, Senator Kerry, Senator Snowe, 
and Senator Kyl have championed.

The substitute would simplify the way that small businesses keep 
records for tax purposes. The cash method of accounting is often the 
easiest method of accounting. Allowing small business to use the cash 
method reduces the administrative and tax compliance burden of these 
businesses. The substitute would let more businesses take advantage of 
this method. Businesses with gross receipts up to $10 million would be 
able to use the cash method.

The substitute would also help businesses provide jobs for workers 
who have experienced barriers to entering the workforce by extending 
and expanding the work opportunity tax credit.

WOTC, otherwise known as the work opportunity tax credit, encourages 
business to hire workers who might not otherwise find work. These 
employers teach workers new skills and how to be a good employee. The 
workers serve our food, sell us goods, paint our houses, and provide 
care to our sick and elderly.

WOTC, the work opportunity tax credit, has been remarkably 
successful. By reducing expenditures on public assistance, WOTC is 
highly cost effective. The business community is highly supportive of 
these credits. Especially industries such as retail and restaurants 
that hire many low-skilled workers find it useful.


The substitute would extend WOTC for 5 years, and the substitute 
would expand the credit to make it available to employers who hire 
veterans disabled after 9/11, something I think is very important for 
us to do.

As of July 2006, nearly 20,000 members of our Armed Forces were 
wounded in action in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring 
Freedom. Many of these soldiers are now permanently disabled and do not 
know what they are going to do once they return home. We need to help 
these young men and women, and a modest tax incentive to get them back 
in the workforce is a good place to start.

This is an issue the Senator from Colorado, Mr. Salazar, championed.

I think we should make WOTC permanent. Senator Snowe and I introduced 
a bill to do just that. But to accommodate other Senators' priorities, 
the committee agreed to a 5-year extension in the bill that is now 
included in the substitute.

The substitute helps small businesses by modifying S corporation 
rules. These modifications reduce the effect of what some call the 
sting tax; that is, these modifications improve the viability of 
community banks.

These are changes that Senator Lincoln and Senator Hatch have 
championed.

These are all important ways to help small businesses succeed. These 
provisions will spur investment and, thus, create jobs. They will 
provide greater opportunity for workers looking for a job. They all 
enjoy strong support.

Senator Grassley, members of the Finance Committee, and I have worked 
to develop a balanced package, and I believe we have done just that.

The language included in the substitute is a responsible package that 
will ensure the continued growth and success of small businesses. And 
we have also paid for it. Most of the offsets are proposals the Senate 
has supported several times before. The offsets include a proposal to 
end future tax benefits for abusive sale-in-lease-out tax shelters, 
known as SILOs. These deals are foreign tax-exempt entities to generate 
sham tax deductions.

Even after Congress shut these deals down in 2004, some taxpayers 
continue to take excessive, unwarranted depreciation deductions on 
German sewer systems and the like. The Internal Revenue Service says it 
has 1,500 of these deals under audit involving billions--yes, 
billions--of dollars. At a minimum, it is time to shut these foreign 
deals down. There are domestic deals, too, but this provision only 
affects foreign deals.

Another offset doubles fines, penalties, and interest on taxes owed 
as a result of using certain abusive offshore financial arrangements to 
avoid paying taxes. Taxpayers will hide their money from the IRS 
through offshore credit cards and other shady financial arrangements 
need to get the message that this Congress is serious about ending 
these abuses.

The substitute closes a corporate loophole used by companies that 
reinvented themselves as foreign corporations to avoid paying taxes in 
our country. In March 2002, Senator Grassley and I made it clear to 
those who put profits ahead of patriotism did so at their own peril. 
The substitute would treat those who moved offshore after that date 
like a U.S. company, and the substitute would make those companies pay 
U.S. taxes.

Further, under the substitute, companies that paid to settle 
Government investigations or that paid punitive damages ordered by the 
courts will be prohibited from taking tax deductions for those 
payments.

Deducting these amounts can reduce the true cost of these settling by 
as much as a third. Deducting these amounts would effectively shift the 
tax burden onto the backs of other taxpayers who pay what they 
rightfully owe. Those deductions should, therefore, be prohibited.

The hard-working American taxpayers we are trying to help in this 
substitute should not have to pay more taxes because some taxpayers are 
abusing the tax system through tax shelters. They also should not have 
to bear the burden of civil settlements and punitive damages paid by 
companies that engage in questionable behavior.

Another offset would limit the annual amount of nonqualified deferred 
compensation for corporate executives. Rank-and-file workers generally 
have to pay taxes on their compensation when they earn it. The 
exception is deferred compensation provided through qualified 
retirement plans with statutory limits on contributions and benefits. A 
401(k) is the best example.

Management, on the other hand, has no limit on the amount that can be 
deferred to nonqualified arrangements--no limit. The substitute sets 
the annual limit at the lesser of 100 percent of taxable compensation 
or $1 million.

These are sound changes. I urge my colleagues to support the 
substitute.

I yield the floor.