---
---

# THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `8a660ac843a55e8d50e890c9be724238`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 14 November 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Thank you, Mr. Altmire.

Here is the bottom line. There is a dramatic and stark difference 
between the Republicans' priorities and the Democrats' priorities. 
There is one priority, and only one that you will ever hear from the 
other side, and that is to continue to fund the war in Iraq, continue 
to put our troops in harm's way, continue to have their families 
separated from them, continue for them to have longer and longer tours 
of duty,


more and more strain, more and more tours of duty.

Here are our priorities. We passed the largest increase in veterans 
benefits in the 77-year history of the VA. We passed legislation to 
increase the minimum wage. We passed legislation to expand access to 
health care for 10 million children. We passed legislation to cut the 
student loan interest rate in half. The list goes on.

And what do you hear from the Republicans? Nothing. You hear, let's 
put more money into the war in Iraq. Let's lengthen the time that the 
men and women fighting on our behalf spend there. Let's send them over 
there for more and more tours of duty. Do you ever hear anything from 
that side of the aisle in terms of an agenda, in terms of getting 
anything done? All I hear is ''no.'' All I hear is, ''not going to do 
that.'' All I hear, again, is, ''Yes, Mr. President. Whatever you say, 
Mr. President.''

Our criticism of them, Mr. Meek and Mr. Ryan, if you remember, in the 
30-Something Working Group in the 109th was that they were the 
bobblehead Republicans who did nothing more than shake their head up 
and down and do whatever the President said. And nothing has changed. 
Well, guess what. A year from now, which is just about a year from now, 
they will be called to account just like you said, Mr. Meek, and we 
will see just how many fewer Republicans there will be here that serve 
in this chamber, because I think the American people have had it up to 
here.

I would be happy to yield to the gentleman.