# IRAQ
## `8a739216fc70579801993dd475aa1f1c`
`Mr. CARDIN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I take this time, first, to commend the 
majority leader, Senator Reid, for doing everything in his power to 
bring up the most important issue we face as a nation, and that is the 
future of Iraq.

I must tell you, as I travel through the State of Maryland, the 
citizens of my State ask: What are we doing to change the course in 
Iraq? What are we doing?

Senator Reid has proposed a way that we can have an up-or-down vote 
on the most pressing issue of our time, and that is whether we are 
going to introduce more American troops, escalate our presence in 
Iraq--an up-or-down vote. The other body will be holding that vote some 
time tomorrow. Every Member of that body will go on record either for 
or against the President's proposal to escalate our presence in Iraq 
with additional American troops.

We need to have that same vote in this body, and we should not be 
looking at procedural obstacles that prevent us from going on record 
whether we favor or oppose the President's proposals.

I look at what the President is suggesting, putting additional troops 
in Iraq, as more of the same, not a new plan. If we learned anything at 
all from the elections last November, it was that the people of this 
Nation want to see a change in direction in Iraq. They understand our 
plans have not worked, that we need to look for a new direction. And 
yet the President is giving us more of the same.

What we need to do is start by saying no to the escalation of 
additional troops, and then we need to look at what are the right 
policies in Iraq. Quite frankly, to me, we need to have the Iraqis 
stand up and defend their own country, with Iraqis assuming principal 
responsibility and American troops starting to come home. We need to 
engage diplomacy. We are in the middle of a civil war.

We need to engage the international community to look for a political 
solution so that Iraqis have confidence in their own Government and 
Sunnis and Shiites can live together in one country. We need to engage 
the international community to help rebuild Iraq. They need help in the 
rebuilding of their country, and they certainly need the help of the 
international community in training Iraqis to take care of their own 
needs.

Americans have made a significant investment in this country. We have 
given so much. Four years ago, I opposed the military presence of 
America in Iraq. I voted against it in the other body. I said at that 
time:




 I have grave concerns about the consequences of a 


 unilateral preemptive military attack by the United States. 


 Such a course of action could endanger our global coalition 


 against terrorism, particularly from our moderate Arab 


 allies. It also may increase terrorism activities around the 


 world.


Unfortunately, I was right. I remember the predictions that were made 
4 years ago that this would be a relatively brief military operation, 
that we would be welcomed by the Iraqis, that the Iraqis would be able 
to take care of the security of their own country, that the standard of 
living for the average Iraqi would increase dramatically.

Unfortunately, that has not come true. The reality of the situation 
is that over 3,100 American soldiers have lost their lives in Iraq. 
Over 20,000 American soldiers have had life-changing injuries as a 
result of their service in Iraq. Hundreds of billions of dollars of 
U.S. taxpayer money has been spent in Iraq, and terrorism is on the 
increase in that region, not diminished. And we are in the middle of a 
civil war, with sectarian violence increasing.


The Iraqis, having passed their constitution, have elected their 
Government, and it is time for the Iraqis to take responsibility for 
controlling the sectarian violence in their own country. More troops 
will not solve the


problem. More American troops will not solve the problem in Iraq.

I am a member of the Foreign Relations Committee. We completed over 3 
weeks of hearings concerning the current status in Iraq. We heard from 
military experts and foreign policy experts, generals and policy 
people. I must tell you, they raise serious questions as to whether we 
can win the war in Iraq on the battlefield. They are telling us over 
and over again that what we need is a surge in diplomacy, not 
additional American troops. We need to signal the Iraqi Government, the 
international community, and, most importantly, the American people 
that our presence in Iraq is not indefinite. More American troops will 
not bring about victory in Iraq. More diplomacy might. More engagement 
of the international community might. But more American troops will 
not.

It is time for this body to act. It is time for us to debate the 
current circumstances in Iraq and the President's policy, and it is 
time for us to take action on the President's plan to escalate. That 
should be our first vote, and that is what Majority Leader Reid is 
attempting to do. But my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are 
trying to use procedural roadblocks so we cannot have an up-or-down 
vote on the President's plan. We should never play politics with our 
American troops who are in harm's way. We shouldn't be doing that. But 
let us have a vote up or down on the President's policy, and then we 
need to look at other options.

The majority leader indicates that we will certainly be taking up the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, to implement their 
recommendations, and we will have an open debate and the opportunity to 
offer amendments as to how we can bring our troops home with honor, how 
we can engage the international community, how we can move forward in 
the Middle East. That we need to do. But we first must stop the 
escalation of American troops, and that is the vote the other body will 
be having as early as tomorrow, and I hope, with the support of my 
colleagues, we can have that vote by Saturday. That is what we should 
do.

I urge my colleagues to allow us to have the debate on this floor and 
an up-or-down vote on the President's plan to add additional American 
troops. Then I hope we will find some way to listen to what the experts 
are telling us, to listen to what the American people are telling us, 
that they want to see from our country a changed policy in Iraq. They 
want America to exercise its international leadership that only we can 
do. They want us to find a way to honorably bring our troops home, to 
energize the international community on diplomacy and on rebuilding 
Iraq. And they want the Iraqis to stand up and defend their own country 
in the midst of a civil war, and we will help end that civil war by 
allowing the Iraqis to take control of their own country and by 
energizing a diplomatic solution so that all the people in Iraq have 
confidence that their Government will protect their rights, and then 
working with the international community, helping build a type of 
country where the people can live in peace and prosperity. That should 
be our mission.

But let us start by removing the procedural roadblocks. Let us start 
by having an up-or-down vote, as the other body will have, on whether 
we support or oppose the President's plans to escalate American troops.
