---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8a7ad6fb801eb46d18530726cb67ea7c`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 14 September 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor PFC Bryn T. Raver, 20, of 
Arkansas, who died on August 29, 2010, in Nangahar, Afghanistan, in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom. According to initial reports, 
PFC Raver died of injuries sustained on August 28, 2010, when his 
military vehicle was hit by rocket-propelled grenade fire

My heart goes out to the family of PFC Raver who made the ultimate 
sacrifice on behalf of our Nation. Along with all Arkansans, I am 
grateful for his service and for the service and sacrifice of all of 
our military servicemembers and their families.

More than 11,000 Arkansans on active duty and more than 10,000 
Arkansas reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan since September 
11, 2001. These men and women have shown tremendous courage and 
perseverance through the most difficult of times. As neighbors, as 
Arkansans, and as Americans, it is incumbent upon us to do everything 
we can to honor their service and to provide for them and their 
families, not only when they are in harm's way but also when they 
return home. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.

PFC Raver was assigned to the 1st Brigade Special Troops Battalion, 
101st Airborne Division, Fort Campbell, KY. He is survived by his wife, 
who resides at Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington; a daughter in 
Alpena, AR.; and his father of Everton, AR.
