# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5136, NATIONAL DEFENSE  AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `8a8f970039e5a6a773bed6a86564f619`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine — 27 May 2010`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1404 provides for consideration of H.R. 
5136, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, 
under a structured rule.

The rule makes in order 82 amendments and provides 1 hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Armed Services.

The rule provides that the chair of the Committee on Armed Services 
or his designee may offer amendments en bloc, debatable for 20 minutes, 
and may offer germane modifications of amendments. The rule allows the 
Chair to recognize for consideration amendments out of order printed in 
the Rules Committee report if 30-minutes' notice is given by the chair 
of the Committee on Armed Services or his designee.

The rule provides one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions, provides that the Chair may entertain a motion that the 
Committee rise only if offered by the chair of the Committee on Armed 
Services or his designee, and provides that the Chair may not entertain 
a motion to strike out the enacting words of the bill.

The rule provides that, in engrossment, the text of H.R. 5013, the 
IMPROVE Act, as passed by the House, will be added as new matter at the 
end of H.R. 5136.

The rule waives clause 6(a) of rule XIII, requiring a two-thirds vote 
to consider a rule on the same day it is reported from the Rules 
Committee, against rules reported from the Rules Committee through June 
1, 2010.

Finally, the rule provides that measures may be considered under 
suspension of the rules at any time through May 30, 2010, and that the 
Speaker or her designee will consult with the minority leader or his 
designee on the


designation of any matter for consideration under suspension of the 
rules.

Mr. Speaker, last week, the House Armed Services Committee reported 
H.R. 5136 favorably to the House, by a unanimous vote, after nearly 13 
hours of debate. As a member of that committee, I am proud of our work, 
but I can say firsthand that crafting this bill was not easy.

The needs of our country are endless and challenging; the threats to 
our security are numerous and always changing, and the resources we can 
devote to these problems are precious and limited.

In the end, the bill that we will vote on later today will strengthen 
our national defense, will give our troops the equipment they need to 
do their jobs and will take care of them and their families. The bill 
also invests in military infrastructure and technology, which will 
create jobs here in the United States and will stimulate growth 
throughout the economy.

Mr. Speaker, there is nothing more important in this bill than the 
provisions that address men and women in uniform. They deserve the best 
care and the best benefits, and this bill meets both of those 
requirements.

The bill provides a 1.9 percent pay increase for active duty 
soldiers, increases the family separation allowance for servicemembers 
who are deployed away from their families, increases hostile fire and 
imminent danger pay for the first time since 2004, and expands college 
loan repayment benefits.

Earlier this year, we passed historic health care reform legislation, 
which included a provision requiring private insurance policies to 
cover adult children until age 26 on their parents' policies.

I am very pleased to see that this bill incorporates those changes 
for TRICARE and CHAMPVA beneficiaries and that it will give retirees 
and veterans the option to extend coverage to their adult children 
until age 26.

I am also proud that this bill contains a provision I wrote, which 
will guarantee that retiring National Guard and Reserve personnel will 
get a full explanation of the benefits due to them. This provision will 
require the Department of Defense to brief retiring personnel on 
benefits like VA health care and TRICARE.

Too often, members of the Guard and Reserve leave the service without 
a clear picture of the benefits that are owed them. Given all that we 
ask of them, that's not right. They have made great sacrifices, and I 
believe that Congress has a moral obligation to educate those heroes on 
the benefits they have earned. This is just one way we can begin to 
repay them for all they have done to protect this country.

I am very encouraged and pleased by the fact that this rule allows 
for an amendment to be made in order by Mr. Murphy from Pennsylvania, 
which, if passed, will finally put the military on the path to 
repealing the misguided and outdated Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy. I am 
looking forward to voting for the amendment and to seeing the end of 
this discriminatory policy once and for all.

Though, while there is much in this bill that I support, there are 
also parts of it I strongly disagree with.


I am extremely disappointed that this bill contains an authorization 
for an additional $33.1 billion for the President's fiscal year 2010 
budget request for the surge in Afghanistan as well as $159.3 billion 
for fiscal year 2011 for overseas contingency operations, the majority 
of which will, no doubt, be spent in Afghanistan and Iraq.

We are pursuing a misguided strategy at a tremendous cost to the 
American people. The loss of one American service man or woman is 
simply too high a cost for a mission that does not strengthen our 
national security.

An astonishing half billion dollars is included in this bill for an 
alternate extra engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. In 1996, the 
Department of Defense conducted a competition to choose the engine for 
this plane, and Pratt & Whitney won it. The engine they make meets the 
program requirements, and it is perfectly adequate. Unfortunately, a 
major defense contractor, who by 2012 would have had 90 percent of the 
military engine industrial base, lost the competition, doesn't want to 
take ''no'' for an answer, and has been lobbying hard to keep a program 
for a second engine funded.

The Bush administration opposed the funding for this extra engine, 
and the Obama administration opposes it. Secretary Gates has said that 
the funding for the extra engine will be detrimental to the overall 
Joint Strike Fighter program. If Congress decides to ignore those in 
the Defense Department and those in the administration on this, 
estimates show that we will be forced to purchase 50-80 fewer planes, 
which will definitely affect our national security.

Let there be no mistake. Spending half a billion dollars to build an 
engine that isn't needed and that the Pentagon doesn't want is a 
colossal waste of money. This rule makes in order an amendment, which I 
have sponsored, to strip the authorization for this program, which I 
believe is the right thing to do.

I reserve the balance of my time.