---
---

# None
## `8a94f52d536b07a88e99e447bef6890e`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 12 March 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas for organizing 
this Special Order hour and for gathering together a lot of patriotic 
Americans and shedding some objective light on the health care 
situation with our men and women; and like many of the Members who have 
spoken earlier in this hour, I am one who has also made consistent 
trips over to Iraq, Afghanistan, the hospital, Landstuhl in Germany, 
and, also, I make it a point to be one place or another to visit our 
wounded, at either Walter Reed or Bethesda or Landstuhl. So I have been 
to Walter Reed a number of times, and saw nothing like I saw described 
here on the floor of the House of Representatives, and make no excuses 
for that. In fact, like everyone else, I believe we needed to fix it 
and we did fix it as quickly as possible.

The people that come down here to the floor night after night after 
night with the same poster that had the words cockroach, mold and mice 
on it have been repeating the same mantra, but they have not seen 
anything like we are describing here night after night after night. 
This was, as I understand it, two rooms out of 300 and some altogether 
in a place where no one goes. The people that were there were 
ambulatory patients that liked it there because they were a little off 
campus, they had a little more freedom. So those were the 
circumstances. They have been fixed.

But I will say what this needs to be: this needs to be a message to 
us, a kind of reminder, a wake-up call, because what I saw here 
demonstrated by Mr. Burgess, which is that there are patients there 
whose care is too bureaucratic, we can use this as a launching pad to 
bring software into place and to put into place a patient tracking 
system that will compare the tracking of these patients and the 
timeliness of their care with that in the private sector and have red 
flags come up on those files if there is a time they are not being 
dealt with in a fashion they should be. We can get this set up. It 
needs to be managed in that fashion.

I will also say that the VA hospitals have taken a fair amount of 
criticism on this. The ones that I go visit have modern health care and 
a modern tracking system and a bar code that goes on the wrist of the 
patient. When they go in there, they read that bar code and within 
seconds their full medical record is there; any pharmaceuticals that 
have been prescribed by them are all right there. It reduces and almost 
eliminates mistakes for prescriptions, for example.

There are a lot of modern pieces that have been put together. Most of 
our VA hospitals, and the ones I know, do a good job. They shouldn't be 
dragged into this, and the Walter Reed piece of this, we can do a 
better job. More of it has to do with patient management and timeliness 
of care and modernizing the recordkeeping system. Little of it has to 
do with putting plaster up on the wall and putting carpet into place. 
Let's use the need to do this to get this place, put Walter Reed back 
into the 21st century and give these men and women the very best top-
notch care that is possible.

We can do that. The people doing the work, we need to applaud them, 
not criticize them. They give their hearts and their minds and their 
energy to our brave men and women who have given their life and limb 
for our freedom and for our liberty.

The only thing that they are short of is they suffer from compassion 
fatigue, and they get burned out on these jobs. But what I see, 
selfless Americans are doing the best job they can. We can give them 
some better tools to work with, which has to do with tracking the 
patients and being more timely in the service we provide.