# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8a9a75e7898c81581aa927e820a7dbb6`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, we have had a tenuous debate, and it is 
going to go a while. I first commend Senator Levin on this amendment. I 
am proud to be a cosponsor of it. Although we have differences on many 
things, I don't think there is a difference in this Chamber on the 
provision of services and health care to our wounded warriors as they 
come home. As a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, I have been 
pleased to work with Senator Akaka and Senator Craig on many of the 
provisions in this legislation. I thank Senator Carper for allowing me 
to take a few minutes.

I appreciate the remarks by the Senator from Illinois about what he 
has done in this bill. As I listened to many of the discussions about 
the things we need to fix, I think sometimes we forget to remember all 
the things we are doing well. I wish to talk about two things.

One, I wish to let the men and women of the U.S. Department of 
Defense medical services and the Veterans' Administration know how much 
I appreciate what they are trying to do and what they have been trying 
to do. Let me illustrate that by telling a very brief story.

I go to Walter Reed periodically anytime there is a wounded Georgia 
veteran there. I also see other veterans, but I make it a point to make 
sure that the parents or a spouse of every one of those veterans has my 
phone number and knows they have an advocate in Washington as long as 
they are at Walter Reed.

One of my visits to Walter Reed just happened to be on the Monday 
following the breakout of the story about building 19 or 18, the 
building that was in bad shape. That was a national story and reflected 
poorly on Walter Reed and on us.

When I got there, I first went to visit Corporal Pearson, a Georgian, 
actually from my home county, who had been wounded. I gave him my phone 
number, and asked for his father's phone number. I left from there to 
go to see Building 18. I went over there and saw the condition Building 
18 was in, and I, too, knew we could do much better.

On the way to my office at Russell, I called from my car on my cell 
phone to the corporal's father and left a message for him to call me 
back. He called me that night. I told him how much I appreciated his 
son's service, and I wanted him to know, while he and his wife were in 
Georgia and his son was at Walter Reed, they could use me as a family 
member, if they would, to give them any assistance he might need at the 
hospital.

He thanked me for that. He said: Senator Isakson, just do one thing 
for me. I have been watching all this on the news about that building, 
and I am sorry about that, but if anybody asks you, tell them my son 
has been in Walter Reed for 10 days, and my wife and I were with him 
every day until yesterday, and I have never seen anybody receive finer 
care.

I pass that on not to in any way mask those places where we do have 
difficulties and need improvement--many of them recognized in this 
particular amendment--but as we talk about things we want to make 
better, we cannot forget that day in and day out the loyal American 
service men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces medical corps at Walter 
Reed and in the VA who are doing a phenomenal, lifesaving job, a better 
job than has ever been done in the history of warfare. I want to put in 
that compliment and pat on the back for them.

Secondly, with regard to the wounded warrior amendment, this 
addresses so many things we have learned from the trauma of the types 
of wounds that are coming from the type of warfare we are fighting in 
Iraq. We are saving so many more of our wounded warriors on the 
battlefield, but because of that we


have many more who need long-time care, long-time attention, and 
specific attention. This wounded warrior amendment goes a long way 
toward doing that.

I particularly compliment the authors of the amendment, and all of us 
on the Veterans Committee, on the new referral system that is put in 
here for the diagnosis of PTSD, and how that has been greatly improved 
in the number of people who can actually make that referral back to 
Veterans Affairs or the Veterans' Administration or back to DOD, if 
they are still on active duty.

I also want to brag for a second about General Shoomaker at Walter 
Reed. One of the things we talk about--and Senator Durbin's remarks 
addressed this--is the difficulty we have been having with the handoff 
of health care from leaving DOD to going to the VA. That has been a 
problem, and we have a record number of people who are being handed off 
once their service is over, while they still have treatment necessary, 
from DOD to VA.

General Shoomaker was at Fort Gordon in Georgia prior to coming to 
Walter Reed, when he was asked to come in and straighten out the 
difficulties Walter Reed had. While at Fort Gordon, General Schoomaker 
had been the real catalyst for what is said in the military to be the 
best seamless transfer of wounded warriors from DOD to the Veterans 
Administration.

Today, now, for those who are coming home with amputations, who are 
in need of long-term therapy, long-term treatment, long-term care, who 
go from active duty, are severed honorably, to go into veterans status, 
they have created a seamless transfer in that rehab at Augusta, which 
is recognized as second to none. I know the recommendations in this 
amendment which will be adopted by this body will go a long way toward 
improving the systems by which those transfers take place.

I am pleased to rise to thank those in our military and the care they 
give, and know there are areas where we can do better. I commend 
Senator Levin and the many cosponsors of this particular amendment for 
all the work and time that has gone into it.

As we have a very tenuous and difficult debate, it is important for 
the American people to know every Member of this Congress appreciates 
the care that is given by our military doctors and our military medical 
personnel and understands we can do better. As we deal with the trauma 
that comes from the type of conflict we are now in, this wounded 
warriors amendment will see to it that the care, the referral, the 
diagnosis, the treatment, and the transfer are better now than they 
have ever been before.

Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time.