---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `8a9d97166c7d12ac76a5efb6da75f23d`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is a terrible bill. It is only allowed 4 hours 
of debate. We could have had more debate, but according to the Congress 
Daily P.M., the Speaker of the House is in New York City tonight at a 
fund-raiser. So we could have spent the time debating tonight. Instead, 
we are waiting until tomorrow and the time is limited.

Our soldiers are in need of our support, and they have sacrificed 
greatly and given their support to us, and they have kept us safe. We 
have been safe since September 11, 2001, but instead of providing only 
what the troops need in this bill, it funds domestic spending with $24 
billion.

In addition in Title IX of this bill, the language will effectively 
deny our troop reinforcements or replacements. The language says that 
no unit may be deployed without being fully mission-capable. If this 
language were law during World War I, none of the troops would have 
been fully mission-capable, and we could not have deployed our troops 
to rescue Europe, and the world would be a very different place.

If this language had been law during World War II, our troops would 
not be fully mission-capable, and they would not have been available 
for the victories in D-Day or Iwo Jima, and the world would have been a 
very different place.

If this language were law during the Korean War, our troops would not 
have been able to leave the country because they were never fully 
mission-capable. They were using broken-down World War II equipment, 
and if they had not gone to rescue the South Koreans, the world would 
be a different place.

Mr. Speaker, this bill will not let our troops in Iraq receive the 
reinforcements and replacements they need, and let me tell you why.

To be fully mission-capable, there are three areas of judgment: 
personnel, equipment and training. Personnel, we can be fully mission-
capable. We have the best soldiers in the world, and our units have the 
right number of people.

Training is a little more subjective. Most people say that they would 
be ready to be fully mission-capable. However, they do not train on the 
very same equipment that they use in the field. So there is some 
contention whether they are actually fully mission-capable or not. Some 
would say they are not, but definitely in the area of equipment we are 
not fully mission-capable. The reason: We take the best equipment we 
have and we put it in the field to protect or troops. We know it is the 
right thing to do, but our troops do not train on the same equipment 
they operate in the field. In fact, they could not leave the United 
States under this language. Right now, they go to Kuwait and they train 
on equipment. It is not the same equipment but it's close, it is not 
the same level of protection that they have when they get in field in 
Iraq. So they will never be fully mission-capable.

According to the Congress Daily A.M. this morning said Pentagon 
leaders have repeatedly told Capitol Hill they need additional war 
funds by the end of April. If they do not receive those funds by April, 
it will delay repairs, would exacerbate the readiness problem facing 
nondeployable units which already have equipment shortfalls. In other 
word, they would not be fully mission-capable, and the results of that, 
of not being fully mission-capable, is that our troops cannot receive 
the reinforcements and they cannot receive replacements. Our troops 
will be stuck in Iraq. Vote ''no'' on this bill.

The language in this bill ties the hands of our military, and it says 
that none of the troops that are in America today will ever have the 
ability to leave this country because they cannot be ''fully mission-
capable.'' The Title IX language must be struck from the bill because 
it is very clear that if we do not strike the language, we cannot get 
any reinforcements out of the country, we cannot get any replacements 
out of the country, and therefore, our troops will be stuck in Iraq.

I thank the gentleman from California for yielding me the additional 
time.