---
---

# IN MEMORIAM OF ARMY SERGEANT JAMES AKIN
## `8aa0ac97adb36acba75247ebfd40ac43`
`Mr. UDALL of New Mexico â€” 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Army 
Sergeant James Akin, a true American hero who lost his life while 
serving his country in Iraq. James was one of four soldiers killed near 
Baghdad on Sunday, June 3, 2007 when a roadside bomb detonated 
alongside the Humvee he was driving. He was killed less than a month 
before his 24th birthday.

James was a successful businessman who sold his retail cell phone 
company at an age when most Americans are just beginning their 
professional career. But he was always more interested in serving the 
public than himself. James felt that a public servant is effective 
through action and experience rather than rhetoric. To that end, he 
enlisted in the Army and was deployed to Iraq in the fall of 2004. He 
was honored to serve his country, and, envisioning a future political 
life, he wanted to understand issues of military conflict from the 
perspective of a war veteran.

I regret that I did not know James personally, for those who did 
describe him with love, and they do so passionately. The many messages 
posted on his personal web page by those who knew him convey the 
tremendous admiration they had for him, and illustrate the caring, 
influential and thoughtful man that he was. They describe a father 
figure, a brotherly adviser and a considerate, deeply loving and 
equally loved husband.

A current member of my staff, Sarah Cobb, who worked with James on a 
congressional campaign in Albuquerque, said of him: ''He truly was what 
is said of him--gregarious, outgoing and effervescent.''

The love James had for his country and his countrymen was infectious. 
He openly and honestly told anyone he met of his future desire to run 
for President of the United States. He encouraged those he knew, and 
those he did not, to stay informed and to be involved in government and 
the electoral process. From what I have learned of James, I believe 
that if his life had not been cut short, he may indeed have addressed 
the Nation from the floor of this great Chamber.

Today, there is a void in the lives of all who knew him, and New 
Mexico is a lesser place for having lost him. Yet James will live on in 
the hearts and minds of those he touched, and New Mexico is lucky to 
call him a native son.

In 2004, James managed the New Mexico State senate campaign of my 
friend Victor Raigoza. Though they did not win that tough political 
battle, James showed the true measure of his character when he sent the 
following words of wisdom and encouragement to Mr. Raigoza: ''Live life 
to serve, because you can. Dissent, because you can. Enjoy freedom, 
because you can. Remember always that the measure of our progress is 
not whether we can provide more for those who have plenty, but whether 
we can provide enough for those who have little.''

My heartfelt condolences go out to James' family and James' wife 
Syreeta, his father and namesake James, and the large number of 
friends, extended family members and fortunate individuals whose lives 
he touched.

I spoke to Syreeta last Friday and told her how much the Nation 
appreciates James' service to his country. To Syreeta and James' 
family, thank you for your sacrifice.

I believe I speak for all New Mexicans when I say our Nation will 
always maintain a priceless debt of gratitude and the utmost respect 
for the service and sacrifice of Army Sergeant James Akin. He will be 
missed.
