---
---

# None
## `8ab8afe6f924ad3ffdb2a805dfcbba9a`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. HOLT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I want to thank my colleagues for allowing this bill to come to the 
floor. I want to thank my partner in the bill, Mr. Brown of South 
Carolina, for his work and support on the measure, and also the 
chairman and ranking members of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee 
and the Armed Services Committee.

The bill calls upon the President to establish a permanent ''Hire a 
Veteran Week'' to help promote employment of veterans in a more 
concentrated fashion. Last year the House passed this bill by a voice 
vote. The bill enjoyed overwhelming support on both sides of the aisle 
because all of us understood that we had a lot more to do to help our 
veterans find jobs, start businesses on their own and get ahead as 
employees; and we still do have much more to do. I am grateful that the 
House leadership has allowed this bill to come forward today.

One of the reasons I am glad we are doing this is, we need to change 
the paradigm of how we think about veterans. Too often we spend a 
couple of days a year, Memorial Day, Veterans Day, thinking about 
veterans. But for too many Americans, these have simply become 
additional days to go shopping instead of recognizing the courage, the 
service, the sacrifice of those who have worn the uniform of our 
Nation, and that needs to change.

Since September 11, 2001, America has been creating the largest new 
pool of veterans since the Vietnam era. Hundreds of thousands of 
Americans have passed through Iraq and Afghanistan, including tens of 
thousands in our Guard and Reserve. All of these veterans are returning 
home and many, many of them, need help in obtaining and sustaining 
employment.

The most basic thing we can do is remind employers on a regular basis 
that veterans make great employees. It is not just that we owe it to 
them, although we do. It is not just that it is a matter of fairness, 
although it is. It is also that they are good workers with real, very 
real, life experience.

Some companies are making an effort to do this. One of them, in my 
district, Facile Corporation, has offices at Fort Monmouth, also in 
Camden, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, Washington, Arlington, Colorado Springs 
and in, Madam Speaker, the State of California as well. Facile is a 
diversified company providing a range of services to military and 
civilian clients, information technology services and so forth.

But what makes this company special for me is the fact that 26 
percent of its workforce nationwide is comprised of veterans. This 
didn't just happen. The employer made a conscious and conscientious 
effort to do so, to hire these veterans.

Last November, just before Veterans Day, I had the privilege of 
meeting with employees of Facile and learning how this effort to hire 
veterans truly was a win/win proposition for the company and for the 
veterans. I came away more convinced than ever that we need to 
institutionalize that kind of outreach, which is why I am proud to 
cosponsor this bill with a number of other colleagues here.



We face many difficult days ahead. Those wearing the uniform of the 
United States, the various uniforms who are serving in harm's way to 
defend us, face many difficult days ahead. They should not face more 
difficulties when they come home. One thing we can all agree on is that 
we need to give our veterans every opportunity to achieve the American 
Dream. That is the point of this legislation, to create the Hire a 
Veteran Week and to encourage the President to support the goal of Hire 
a Veteran Week.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.