---
---

# None
## `8abd6865f61fdb2828b3cf845f97ba46`
`Mr. HILL — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, the stay-the-course strategy in Iraq has 
failed. The war in Iraq is entering its fifth year, longer than U.S. 
involvement in World War I and World War II. It is time to stop the 
open-ended commitment there. It is time for the Government of Iraq to 
take responsibility for their own security. It is time to start the 
process of bringing our troops home. It is time to refocus our military 
efforts to combat terrorism. It is time to send a clear message that 
Congress will no longer provide a blank check to fund this war. It is 
time to pass the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq 
Accountability Act.

Supporting this bill supports the troops before, during, and after 
they are deployed. This bill enforces the Department of Defense's 
current standards for military readiness and provides $2.5 billion in 
additional funding to ensure that our troops are properly equipped and 
trained; it provides $1.7 billion in additional funding for health care 
for our troops, and another $1.7 billion to ensure our veterans receive 
the care they need and that they deserve. We must support our troops in 
the theater and when they come home.

This bill is tough on terrorism, tougher than the President's current 
plan that pays little attention to the war in Afghanistan. It adds $1 
billion to the Department of Defense efforts there. We have lost our 
focus in the war on terror. We must redirect our military efforts on 
thwarting terrorism in Afghanistan and eliminating al Qaeda. This bill 
does that.

The current strategy has not worked largely because the Iraqi 
leadership has no real motivation to make it work. This bill holds both 
the President and the Iraqi Government accountable by ensuring that 
real progress is made. It is time to turn over the control of Iraq to 
their people.

Our troops have done their part, and they have done it magnificently. 
The American people have done their part as well by giving us their 
sons and daughters who ousted Saddam Hussein. With the cost of this war 
approaching one-half trillion dollars, it is time for the people of 
Iraq to spend their dollars, supply their troops, and setting their 
differences. The destiny of Iraq is now in Iraqi hands.
