---
---

# None
## `8abffc301a9b433aa25c561497a05984`
`Mr. LEAHY — 26 January 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, first, I thank my friend from Alabama for 
yielding time.















 Amendment No. 3303


Among the $120 billion in funding cuts that would be required by the 
Coburn amendment is a $1.3 billion rescission from the State 
Department. Section 13 of the amendment specifically directs the 
Secretary of State to eliminate two programs--the East-West Center and 
the Asia Foundation--saying this would produce savings.

Even if it made sense to eliminate these programs which have a long 
history of achievement for our Nation and strong bipartisan, bicameral 
support, to do so would produce savings of only $42 million--a long way 
from the $120 billion about which he spoke. The Senator's amendment 
does not say where the balance of the $1.3 billion cut would come from.

The Senator's Web site mentions two other small programs within the 
State and Foreign Operations budget that he believes should be cut 
which total $25 million, and $20 million of that, incidentally, is for 
the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, something that gets us praise 
around the world and actually protects the well-being of everybody in 
this country. It has long been supported by the senior Republican on 
the Foreign Relations Committee.

The explanation of the Senator from Oklahoma for eliminating these 
funds is that other nations should be responsible for the conservation 
of their own tropical forests. Would that it were so. But when they get 
cut down, they affect those of us in Vermont, Colorado, Oklahoma, or 
anywhere else. In fact, it is like saying to other nations, no matter 
how impoverished--for example, Haiti--that they should take care of 
their own health needs. That ignores the fact that deadly viruses, such 
as HIV and TB, are as oblivious to national boundaries as are carbon 
emissions from the destruction of tropical forests. It is a 
shortsighted and unworkable approach to global problems that affect the 
American people directly.

In defense of his proposal to rescind $1.3 billion from the State 
Department, Senator Coburn cites more than $13 billion in funding for 
Iraq reconstruction that has been wasted, stolen, or lost. I see my 
good friend from Oklahoma on the floor. I say in that regard, there is 
no doubt there was deplorable waste, fraud, and abuse of U.S. taxpayer 
funds by contractors, such as Halliburton, that received no-bid, 
sweetheart contracts under the last Republican administration. It was 
probably the most poorly implemented nation-building program in 
history. At that time, the Republican Congress rubber-stamped those 
funds that were wasted--probably not wasted if you were a shareholder 
of Halliburton; you thought it was a good idea because they walked off 
with so much of it. The White House even opposed efforts by some of us, 
including Republicans, to create the Office of the Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction that discovered the misuse of funds.

I also remind everybody that it was the Republican Congress, with a 
Republican President, that inherited the largest surplus in America's 
history, created by a Democratic administration, that of President 
Clinton's, that left a surplus that was paying down the national debt, 
left a huge surplus to the incoming Republican President. The 
Republican Congress not only voted to use that surplus to pay for an 
unnecessary war in Iraq but even cut taxes when we were fighting what 
ended up being two wars. It is the only time in our Nation's history we 
have done that--spend the surplus, cut taxes, and somehow these wars 
that have been going on now for 8 years would pay for themselves.

I think to use the last Republican administration's waste of taxpayer 
dollars in Iraq as a rationale to rescind funds today that have 
bipartisan support for the security of our embassies and our diplomats 
overseas and for programs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, the Middle 
East, Indonesia, Mexico, Central Asia, Israel, and Egypt, where the 
threats to U.S. national security interests are beyond dispute, would 
be foolhardy.

Every one of us should agree that not every Federal program deserves 
to be funded and certainly not because it was funded in the past. I 
have voted to cut programs in the Appropriations Committee and on this 
floor because they have gone beyond their useful life span or were 
ineffective. Some programs are effective. Those that are not should be 
eliminated.


But the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, 
with leadership between myself and the senior Senator from New 
Hampshire, Mr. Gregg--we spent the better part of last year making 
difficult choices of what to fund and what to cut. The Appropriations 
Committee approved those choices, Republicans and Democrats, all 29 
members, with one dissenting vote, and that was on another issue 
involving abortion. This amendment would cut funding to combat HIV, TB. 
Countries receive help from us, from Colombia, to Israel, to Egypt, to 
Mexico. The Senator from Oklahoma, with one strike of the pen, would 
arbitrarily slash 5 percent of that funding. Should we look for places 
where we can save money, where programs are not meeting their goals? Of 
course. But to do it this way, willy-nilly, picking a percentage out of 
the air with no concern for the consequences, does not protect the 
security of the American people.

There is another section of the amendment about which I would like to 
speak. Section 5 of the amendment directs the Secretary of Education to 
work with the Secretaries of other relevant agencies to consolidate and 
reduce the cost of administering the student foreign exchange and 
international education programs. These exchanges are some of the most 
strongly supported programs by both Democrats and Republicans in the 
foreign aid budget.

This amendment takes aim at the Benjamin Gilman International 
Scholarship Program, as well as several Department of Education 
international education and research programs, some of which are 
administered by the State Department, and a National Science Foundation 
program.

The Benjamin Gilman Program, created by Congress, provides 
scholarships to American undergraduates to study abroad, including 
students in nontraditional destinations, or to study critical 
languages, such as Arabic, Persian, and Chinese. Our military, and our 
intelligence agencies, say there is an unmet need for Americans who can 
speak these languages. Senator Coburn would cut funding for it.

The Department of Education's Foreign Language and Area Studies 
Fellowship Program provides funding for foreign language study at U.S. 
universities, and several of these programs focus on strengthening 
study in international business and education, at a time when we are 
becoming more and more aware we cannot compete just within our borders. 
Our businesses have to be able to compete with other countries around 
the world or we lose jobs in America. We should be strengthening our 
study of international business and education, not cutting these 
programs.



The amendment would cut other successful exchanges, such as the 
Fulbright-Hayes programs for teachers, high school students, graduate 
students, and business professionals. These exchanges bring foreigners 
with a range of economic, cultural, and ethnic backgrounds to the 
United States and they send Americans overseas. At a time when America 
should be reaching out around the world for our security, for our 
businesses, we should not be cutting these programs which have been 
woefully underfunded as both Republicans and Democrats have pointed 
out.

The Institute for International Education is one example of an 
organization that effectively administers these programs. It provides 
citizens of other countries with a chance to learn firsthand about 
American culture, our values, our government, and our way of life. 
These are among the most effective ways of countering the 
misrepresentation and false stereotypes about the United States that we 
see perpetrated by extremists. Some of these programs and their 
predecessors I saw during the Cold War period. I remember one of the 
early meetings I had, along with several others, with President Ronald 
Reagan. He had spoken about the evil empire, and he said: What would 
you suggest we do? Of the suggestions that several of us made, I said 
this: Why don't you visit the Soviet Union and invite their leader to 
come to the United States next year and visit here?


He said: Why?

I said: Because you really don't know much about them. I pressed him 
a little on that, but he heard me out, and I said: But they do not know 
much about you either, and it would force them to learn about you and 
your staff, and it would force us to learn about them and their staff.

Later, in his second term, President Reagan told me that was some of 
the best advice he ever got. We know how triumphant his visit was to 
the Soviet Union and how triumphant it was when Mr. Gorbachev came 
here, and the two of them learned about each other and worked together 
to lower the threat of nuclear war.

That is just one example.