---
---

# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `8ac5bbb791f8b47c2ce6f26b6a4ec92e`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 27 February 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the gentlewoman from Florida and the 30-
something Working Group.

I was in my office doing some work after the district work period, 
and I heard the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Meek) speaking on veterans 
and the problems at Walter Reed. I had to come down here and join in 
the conversation, and I appreciate your offer to do so.

I want to tell you about a few things that happened in my district 
back home. I had several meetings with organizers and folks in the 
veterans community in my district. I toured a VA hospital that is 
undergoing a major expansion. As we were doing this throughout the week 
last week, the articles from The Washington Post about what was 
happening at Walter Reed appeared.

I have to tell you that the veterans community in my district, and I 
am sure in other districts around the country, my veterans were 
outraged at what was happening there because


there has been a lot of talk during the debate on Iraq and other forums 
that certain individuals are not supporting the troops and not 
displaying the right commitment to the troops, and there is a partisan 
affiliation with that. But I want to tell you, we have a situation 
taking place at Walter Reed where we have veterans returning from Iraq 
and from Afghanistan, as has been pointed out, with severe injuries. 
These are 19 and 20 year olds, with severe, long-term, lifelong 
injuries. These are the people that we are talking about when we are 
having the debate on Iraq and Afghanistan and who is supporting the 
troops and who is not.

I would leave it to others to determine who is at fault here. That is 
not what this is all about. What this is about is protecting our 
veterans and finding a way to improve the system.

I have to say I shared the outrage of the veterans in my communities 
when I heard about these articles because these are the people that are 
fighting for us overseas that are in harm's way, and the situation in 
Iraq and Afghanistan is going to be the subject of another debate 
coming up on funding and we are going to hear some rhetoric thrown 
around I am sure on this floor and other places about support of our 
troops and who has been supportive of our troops.

As the gentlewoman from Florida knows, during the debate on the 
budget, the continuation resolution, I was one who pushed very hard for 
increased funding for our Nation's veterans. I want to say that our 
leadership was able to put in $3.6 billion in funding increases for the 
VA health system. I have said many times, and I will say it here again 
tonight, Mr. Speaker, that I will never support a budget bill that does 
not fund the VA health system to maintain the current level of services 
every year that that budget funds.



They have been neglected for far too long, and we have seen what has 
happened at Walter Reed. We have seen the situation as outlined in 
great detail, and I do want to commend The Washington Post for the job 
that they did in putting forward these facts because these are things 
that needed to be known.

We have a backlog in the VA of 400,000 cases. A 400,000-case backlog 
in the VA health care system. Mr. Speaker, that is just unacceptable in 
this time.

So I will yield back, but I did want to say that I was in my office, 
and I just could not resist the opportunity to come down one more time 
and say that I share the frustration of the Members here, the 30-
something Working Group, on this issue because I personally am a little 
bit tired of the rhetoric that certain people are not supporting the 
troops. I agree that there are people who are not supporting the 
troops, and I will leave it to others to determine who that is, but I 
do not think that that has a place in the debate when we have a 
situation at Walter Reed that has been outlined. We have a budget 
situation where we have not funded our veterans as we should have in 
past years, but we are going to make up for it with this year's budget 
and continuing budgets.