# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8ac723aa874d352c5af549a189b9d335`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise today to speak out once again 
against the war in Iraq and in support of our troops. Today, we had an 
opportunity to do just that--to support the troops, troops such as 
these who are pictured here who actually have been serving our country 
and recently became U.S. citizens.

''Support the troops''--how many times have we heard that said on the 
floor of the Senate? We have heard that refrain time and time again 
from the very people who earlier today voted against the very essence 
of what it is to support the troops.

From the beginning of the Iraq war, we have heard its supporters say 
that somehow supporting the war equals supporting the troops. But from 
the beginning of this fiasco, it has been clear that the troops have 
been a secondary consideration for those who were bent on rushing into 
an ill-conceived war. Going to war without a postwar plan to stabilize 
Iraq, is that supporting the troops? Refusing to listen to generals 
about the troop levels needed to win the peace, is that about 
supporting the troops? Sending our soldiers into a war zone without the 
appropriate bulletproof vests, without the appropriate vehicles, with 
inferior equipment, is that supporting the troops? Letting Walter 
Reed's conditions worsen, is that supporting the troops? Extending 
tours of duty without regard to the consequences to our soldiers and 
their families, is that supporting the troops? Giving our soldiers only 
a brief stop at home before shipping them back in to a civil war in 
Iraq, is that supporting the troops?

It seems to me that the very least we can do for our brave men and 
women who carry out their orders with exquisite skill and bravery in an 
unimaginable situation in Iraq is to give them enough time to catch 
their breath before they are sent back.

Clearly, never have so few been asked to do so much in these 
continuing deployments. If one thinks about it, the number of men and 
women who are presently deployed and have been deployed compared to 300 
million people in this country, how is it so few have been asked to do 
and sacrifice so much.

Today, the Republican leadership wouldn't even let them have the 
right opportunity for the respite they need in between these continuing 
deployments, deployments that are taking our troops and virtually 
grilling them into the ground. A Republican minority stopped a majority 
of the Senate and overwhelmingly the will of the American people in 
supporting the troops through a procedural roadblock. This should not 
have been a partisan effort by Republicans. It should not have been. In 
essence, those who put those roadblocks up have voted once again to 
stay the course, no change to the President's failed war policy, no 
alteration to this dead-end course, not even to give our troops some 
well-deserved rest.

I applaud my colleague from Virginia, Senator Webb, as well as my 
colleague from Nebraska, Senator Hagel,


both decorated combat veterans who stood up for our troops in their 
amendment. They know personally--this is not esoteric for them--they 
know personally of the sacrifice our soldiers make each and every day 
for the country they love, the country we all love. But they are not 
pawns. They are the best and bravest, and they deserve better than what 
the Senate did today.

I hope the American people speak out in support of our troops. I ask 
those Senators who oppose giving them the appropriate recess between 
deployment, the appropriate time so that they, even having to go back 
into the war, could have the appropriate time, as the military itself 
devises and has as goals as to what it should be, that at least for 
whatever time they are deployed abroad, that they have that time back 
here at home, back here with their families, back here to be able to 
rejuvenate themselves and go back to do the mission which they 
willfully do, could we not do that much for them? I hope the American 
people will speak out with an incredibly loud voice to our colleagues 
who don't believe they deserve that much, who used a procedural 
roadblock.

Mr. President, I am outraged.

As someone who voted against the war, I am outraged that 4 years 
after the start of an elective and unnecessary war which we were led 
into based on false premises and false promises, we have not yet ended 
it.

I am outraged that every delay in moving toward a transition out of 
Iraq and ending the war in Iraq means more American lives lost.

I am outraged that we have spent $450 billion on this war and that 
for each additional month we continue to be engaged in Iraq under the 
present course, we spend another $10 billion a month.

I am outraged that the President's war has cost us our prestige and 
influence abroad and has undermined our security around the world.

I am outraged that the war in Iraq has kept our focus away from the 
war in Afghanistan, the birthplace of the Taliban, home to al-Qaida, 
the land of Osama bin Laden, and the place where the attacks of 
September 11 were planned.

I am outraged that we always hear the same story and the same 
promises from this administration.

As I listen to some of my colleagues, as well as the administration, 
fear should not be the basis for our policy. But that is what the 
administration and its supporters in the Senate offer each time--fear. 
The Bush administration always says that change is just around the 
corner, that we should wait just a little longer for success. The Bush 
administration always has a new plan with new benchmarks and new 
deadlines, but they never meet those benchmarks or those deadlines, so 
they just change them. The Bush administration always says we are 
making progress on the ground. Yet the facts contradict them.

The truth is that we still haven't stopped the insurgency, that 
hundreds of Iraqis are still being killed each day, and that the Iraqi 
Government still hasn't acted on key benchmarks. The truth is that we 
are being driven down a dead-end street by an administration without a 
roadmap for a lasting peace.

So I say, as Senator Robert Kennedy did in March of 1968 in a speech 
about Vietnam:




 We are entitled to ask--we are required to ask how many 


 more men, how many more lives, how much more destruction will 


 be asked, to provide the military victory that is always just 


 around the corner, to pour into this bottomless pit of our 


 dreams?



 But this question the administration does not and cannot 


 answer. It has no answer--none, but the ever-expanding use of 


 military force and the lives of our brave soldiers, in a 


 conflict where military force has failed to solve anything in 


 the past.


Those were his words then. I believe they ring true today. Today, we 
are living with the consequences of the administration's failed policy. 
Over 3,600 American troops have been killed in Iraq since the beginning 
of this war, including 87 servicemembers with ties to my home State of 
New Jersey. April and May was the deadliest 2-month period of the war 
for U.S. troops, with 230 servicemembers killed. We have now spent over 
$400 billion on the war in Iraq. We continue a burn rate of about $10 
billion a month. Frankly, as a member of the Senate Budget Committee, I 
never believed the administration's estimate that the so-called surge 
would cost only $5.6 billion, and these new numbers prove once again 
that we have been misled.

This was a terrible weekend, with over 250 people killed in Iraq, 
including 150 Iraqis who perished in a bombing that the New York Times 
described as ''one of the deadliest, if not the deadliest'' single 
bombing since the start of the war. Suicide attacks have more than 
doubled across Iraq, from 26 in January to 58 in April.


In terms of reconstruction, oil production in Iraq is still lower 
than it was before the war 4 years ago. Baghdad is getting under 6 
hours of electricity a day, significantly less than before the war. And 
the President's escalation plan, the so-called surge, simply isn't 
achieving the results we were promised.

Imagine that, another broken promise. Just like when we were told: We 
know where the weapons of mass destruction are. Just like we were told 
about the yellow cake uranium from Niger, when the President came 
before the Congress in his State of the Union speech and used that term 
to engender support for his war policy. We found out it wasn't true, 
and that ended up having a CIA agent outed because her husband, a 
former United States Ambassador, proved that, in fact, that wasn't 
true. If that had been under any other administration, it would have 
been called treason. Just like we were told: We will be greeted as 
liberators. Just as the President landed on the aircraft carrier with a 
big banner behind him saying ''Mission Accomplished.'' How many lives 
have been lost since mission accomplished? Just like ''the insurgency 
is in its last throes.'' We have heard that so many times.

Well, it is about time to add the surge to that infamous list. I 
think we all knew that the strategy to secure Baghdad would simply lead 
insurgents to move into other areas, and that is exactly what has 
happened.

As Anthony Cordesman from the Center for Strategic and International 
Studies said in recent testimony before the House Foreign Affairs 
Committee:




 The U.S. is having to expand its counterinsurgency 


 operations broadly outside Baghdad. Limited tactical 


 successes really don't matter unless such casualties include 


 substantial cadres of leaders and experts that cannot be 


 easily and rapidly replaced. The insurgents can simply 


 disperse, stand down, and regroup.


Now, I know the administration likes to tout victories in individual 
Iraqi provinces or cities as markers of success, but I believe all we 
are seeing is what is sometimes called the balloon effect. We clamp 
down on insurgents in one area, they spring up in another. We never 
actually solve the problem.

Let's be frank about the status of the Iraqi Government. The New York 
Times describes the Iraqi Parliament and Cabinet as ''barely able to 
function.'' Apparently, 12 Cabinet members aren't even attending 
Cabinet meetings anymore; 74 out of the 275 Members of Parliament are 
boycotting the Parliament. And numerous others don't attend anyway.

We have heard a lot about benchmarks. They keep changing, of course. 
It is now clear to anyone and should be to everyone that the Iraqi 
Government will not meet any of the much-touted benchmarks the Bush 
administration has outlined. I believe we are engaged in a ceaseless 
act of repetitive denial by this administration.

In fact, the Bush administration is shortly going to try to present a 
completely new set of ''accomplishments'' and downplay their previous 
benchmarks. A recent Washington Post article notes:




 Those achievements are markedly different from the 


 benchmarks Bush set when he announced his decision to send 


 tens of thousands of additional American troops to Iraq.


Let's take a look at the benchmarks the Bush administration told us 
would be met.

We were told that by the end of 2006 a provincial election law would 
be approved and new election laws would be put in place. It is the 
middle of 2007. That benchmark has not been met.

We were told the Iraqis would approve a law for debaathification. But 
that benchmark has not been met.

We were told the Iraqis would create a law to help restrain sectarian 
militias. That benchmark has not been met.

We were told the Iraqis would establish a law to regulate the oil 
industry


and share revenues. That benchmark has not been met.

We were told by March the Iraqi Government was supposed to hold a 
referendum on constitutional amendments. But, again, that benchmark has 
not been met.

As I have said time and time again, benchmarks without consequences 
are just aspirations. And I am sick and tired of hearing about goals 
that are never met. Yet despite this lack of results, the 
administration refuses to admit their strategy has failed. Instead, 
they want to move the goalpost. They just want to alter their 
perception of reality.

Finally, I cannot close without discussing the cost of the war in 
Iraq. Our expenditures in Iraq saddle our Nation's finances and our 
children's future. We spend approximately $10 billion a month in Iraq. 
We spend $2.5 billion a week in Iraq. We spend more than $328 million 
every day in Iraq. And we spend more than $13.5 million an hour--an 
hour--in Iraq.

Let me just put our Iraq spending in perspective. For what we spend 
in a month and a half in Iraq, we could fully fund No Child Left Behind 
next year, ensuring that every school district in the United States has 
the funds promised to them to meet the goals of the law for a quality 
education for every child. Just for what we spend in 1/1/2/ months, we 
could meet all of that goal next year.

For what we spend in approximately 3 days in Iraq, and with an 
additional $1 billion, we could substantially improve security at our 
Nation's ports, including increased scanning of cargo containers. I 
represent one of the largest ports on the eastern seaboard, clearly one 
of our huge gaping holes to our domestic security.

For what we spend in just over 2 months in Iraq, we could pay the $21 
billion cost of implementing the remaining 9/11 Commission 
recommendations to secure our homeland, implementations that would 
truly make our country, its communities, and its families far more 
secure. Yet we need to look beyond the economic cost of the war at its 
true cost: 3,609 American lives. That has no price to it. It is 
invaluable. These are the sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, 
brothers and sisters, husbands and wives of fellow Americans, and we 
now have more than 26,695 sons and daughters of America who are wounded 
in ways that will affect their lives forever. I hope a grateful nation 
remembers them now and in the future.

In conclusion, I ask, Mr. President, how many more deadlines will be 
missed? How many more benchmarks will be set, not met, and then 
forgotten? How many more times will we be told to wait just a few more 
months? How many more times will the administration say that change 
will happen soon, 4 years later? How many more broken promises? And how 
many lives must be lost in the meantime? How long will this 
administration wait to come to the inevitable conclusion that we must 
transition out of this war?


Mr. President, it is over. Your failed strategy, your ill-conceived 
war must come to an end before more damage is done, before more lives 
are lost, before more national treasure is squandered. Let's get our 
troops home so we can start the hard work of meeting our domestic 
homeland security challenges, of meeting our security challenges 
elsewhere in the world--for which we have real challenges--of 
strengthening our foreign policy and mending our international 
relations.

I know as I visit back in New Jersey, so many of my constituents say 
to me: Why is it that you all in the Senate cannot just simply put an 
end and seek the transition to this war? To do that, we truly need 
profiles in courage in the Senate. We need bipartisan support. 
Democrats do not have the 60 votes in the Senate to stop a filibuster, 
the procedural process by which the Republican minority thwarts the 
will of a majority of the Senate and the American people, nor do we 
have the 67 votes needed to override a Presidential veto. It will take 
colleagues from both sides of the aisle to meet that challenge.

I challenge my Republican colleagues, who now say they are dismayed 
and have a different view than the President--and I applaud them for 
coming to that conclusion. And I say it is time to back their words 
with meaningful votes here on the floor of the Senate--now, before we 
lose more lives and national treasure. Now is the time, not tomorrow. 
Now is the time, not next month. Now is the time, not next year.

I will end today by reminding all of us of what Senator Robert 
Kennedy said about the war in Vietnam. He said:




 Past error is no excuse for its own perpetuation. Tragedy 


 is a tool for the living to gain wisdom, not a guide by which 


 to live. Now, as ever, we do ourselves best justice when we 


 measure ourselves against ancient tests, as in the Antigone 


 of Sophocles, where he said, ''All men make mistakes, but a 


 good man yields when he knows his course is wrong, and 


 repairs the evil. The only sin is pride.''


The only sin is pride. The only sin is pride. Let's not allow pride 
to be the obstacle to changing our course in Iraq, to making sure we 
save more lives of the men and women who bravely answer the call of the 
Nation's trumpets. Let's make sure ultimately we strengthen our 
security by having the resources both at home and abroad to meet our 
real challenges. Let's change the course. And over the next week, we 
will have that opportunity.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.