---
---

# None
## `8ae7c1fd035dd8c3144c8cec5eafc8af`
`Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts â€” 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, I'm here in reluctant 
support of this legislation. In this process of governing, you 
oftentimes reach a difficult intersection. Sometimes you do not have 
the luxury of either supporting a bill you like or opposing a bill that 
you don't like. Sometimes you have to support a bill that you do not 
like simply because it has to be done. And that is the crossroads at 
which we find ourselves today.

We have sent to the Senate what was possibly the easiest of offsets: 
closing a loophole so that wealthy hedge fund managers cannot hide 
money in offshore accounts. But the Senate minority joined by the 
President and a group


here in the House of Representatives have rejected on theological 
grounds any provision that raises revenue.

Some 160,000 troops are in Iraq, 26,000 in Afghanistan, and at some 
point we're going to have to pay for these wars. We are borrowing $2 
billion every 7 days to fund the war in Iraq, and that's a bill our 
children and grandchildren will have to pay. And yet, and yet, we 
cannot ask the hedge fund managers to stop hiding money in offshore 
accounts. That's what this debate is about and has been. They are 
hiding money, scheming to avoid taxes in offshore accounts.

I support this bill in front of us today. We need to protect 23 
million working families from being hit by higher taxes via the 
alternative minimum tax. But without fiscal responsibility here, and 
we've abandoned it when it comes to the alternative minimum tax and 
closing down an offshore tax haven, we have little choice.

Madam Speaker, I urge adoption of the resolution.