# HONORING THE SERVICE AND SACRIFICE OF THE 101ST AIRBORNE DIVISION
## `8ae82faab27a4588e5f995f8be234bfe`
`Mr. WHITFIELD of Kentucky — 14 July 2008`

---


Mr. WHITFIELD of Kentucky. I certainly want to thank the gentleman 
from Connecticut (Mr. Courtney) and the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
Rogers) as well as Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter for 
bringing this resolution to the floor today.

As has been said, Fort Campbell, Kentucky is the home of the 101st 
Airborne Division known as the Screaming Eagles, which is the only air 
assault division in the world. It has been my distinct privilege and 
pleasure to represent the First Congressional District of Kentucky, 
which is the home of this great unit.

I would also like to say that, while this resolution focuses 
explicitly on the 101st Airborne Division, Fort Campbell is also the 
home of the 160th Special Aviation Regiment, the Fifth Special Forces 
Group, the 86th Combat Support Hospital, and we have many young men and 
women also serving at the Blanchfield Army Hospital as well as the 
Garrison Command at Fort Campbell.

I was delighted that the gentleman from Connecticut and the gentleman 
from Alabama talked briefly about the history of this great 101st 
Airborne Division. I might say that, throughout its history, 19 
individuals of that unit have received the highest declaration offered 
by the U.S. Government, which is the Medal of Honor.

Since Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom began, 
thousands of members of the 101st Airborne Division have been deployed 
no less than three times, performing dangerous counter-insurgency 
operations and working to secure liberty in nations that once served as 
safe havens for terrorists.

I might also say that we pay special tribute to the nearly 200 
members of the 101st Division who have lost their lives fighting the 
global war on terrorism, and throughout its proud history over 6,000 
have lost their lives.

Despite the dangers and difficulties faced by these soldiers and 
their loved ones, I might say that 65 percent reenlist and request to 
stay with the 101st Airborne Division, which certainly demonstrates the 
loyalty to the proud history and tradition of this unit.

I'd like to thank all of the cosponsors of this resolution. The brave 
soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division have never hesitated to answer 
this Nation's call to duty, and it is my great privilege to honor them 
with this resolution.