---
---

# DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL REPEAL ACT OF 2010
## `8af66cfe335d4ac4824152699aa7bb56`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 18 December 2010`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of 
concurring in a Senate amendment to H.R. 2965 with an amendment that is 
known as the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010. I commend 
Congressman Murphy and Leader Hoyer for their efforts on this 
legislation, and applaud Speaker Pelosi for bringing it to the floor.



The ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy has been ill-conceived policy 
from the start--it is discriminatory on its face, and harmful to the 
gay and lesbian uniformed servicemembers that are forced to keep their 
sexual orientation from their friends, their coworkers, and their 
superior officers. Further, these military members are currently 
subject to discharge from the military if it is uncovered that they 
have participated in any activity that may be perceived to be 
associated with homosexuality.

Put simply, any policy that would go this far to discriminate against 
a particular group is just wrong. To date, thousands of brave 
servicemembers--including individuals who have risked their lives in 
Afghanistan and Iraq--have been discharged simply because of their 
sexual orientation.

In recent months, members of Congress have researched this issue in-
depth--a Department of Defense survey was requested, and both the House 
and the Senate have held hearings on the issue. In a Senate Armed 
Service Committee hearing in February of this year, Defense Secretary 
Gates, and Admiral Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
spoke out against the policy. Secretary Gates has remained steadfast in 
urging that Congress act to repeal this policy in an orderly manner.

Further evidence supporting repeal came on November 30th, when the 
results of a Department of Defense survey on ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' 
were released. The study showed that 70 percent--an overwhelming 
majority--of servicemembers believe that a repeal of Don't Ask, Don't 
Tell would be positive, mixed, or of no consequence.

Because Congress has been slow to act on this matter, the courts have 
become involved, and now stand to potentially declare ''Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell'' unconstitutional if we do not act. Secretary Gates has 
warned that judicial repeal will put an administrative burden on the 
Department of Defense, and has asserted that Congressional action is 
most favorable.

I believe that the ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' policy poses an 
unnecessary threat to our national security and that the time has come 
for this policy to end.

I urge my fellow members of Congress to join me to repeal this 
harmful and discriminatory policy.
