# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `8af735613bb4425cf11da1b8ddf5ff30`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Madam President, the MILCON-VA bill before the Senate 
today funds critically important programs for our Nation's military 
forces and their families and for our vets. Most of the funding was 
requested by the President, but certain programs were enhanced or 
augmented by the committee after careful consideration and evaluation 
of the budget request. Let me give two examples of the funding in this 
bill that was not requested by the President that would be stripped out 
under the mandate of the motion to commit: $50 million for community-
based outpatient clinics for vets in rural areas underserved by VA 
medical centers. These clinics serve as medical lifelines for vets in 
rural areas who do not have ready access to a VA Hospital.

There is $50 million in a pending amendment to renovate excess 
buildings on VA medical campuses for homeless vets shelters and 
services. An estimated 131,000 vets are homeless on any given night. 
Secretary Shinseki has made it a priority to eliminate homelessness 
among vets, and this bill supports that effort.

There is $300 million to complete the funding requirement for the 
expanded Homeowners Assistance Program for military personnel, to 
protect military families under orders to move during the current 
mortgage crisis from disastrous losses on home sales and to shield 
wounded warriors and surviving spouses from the financial ravages of 
the mortgage crisis.

There is $7.5 million for a chapel center at Dover Air Force Base, 
DE, to replace a wood-frame chapel built in 1956. The existing chapel 
has asbestos in the ventilation system, the roof is too unstable for 
maintenance personnel to walk on, and the Chaplain Command has rated 
the current chapel as the worst in the command. Yet this decrepit 
facility serves as the primary site for hosting families waiting to 
view the dignified transfer of the fallen from the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. This project was not included in the President's budget 
request but was added by the committee.

These are but a few examples of the types of programs and projects 
funded in the bill that were not requested by the President. They are 
not, as this motion would suggest, less urgent or unnecessary simply 
because they were not requested by the President. They are the product 
of careful analysis and evaluation by the committee of jurisdiction and 
developed in close consultation with the authorizing committees.

I urge my colleagues to support the committee-passed version of the 
MILCON-VA bill and reject the motion to commit it to the committee.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.