# ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN ACT OF 2009
## `8b05b21d6234668f60aee3dfec5b5e80`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN â€” 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the committee, 
Mr. Berman, and congratulate him and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen on 
bringing this important bill to the floor.

We have to learn from our past mistakes. And the fact is that the 
economic and political stability of Pakistan is essential to U.S. 
security interests, and we know what has happened in the past when we 
have ignored that fact. Because when the Soviet Union withdrew its 
forces from Afghanistan in 1989, the United States lost interest in 
Afghanistan, and we reduced our commitment to Pakistan at the same 
time. And we all know the consequences. The consequences we saw on 
September 11, 2001. Because what happened in that power vacuum in 
Afghanistan was that Taliban took power. They invited al Qaeda in, and 
the result is the horrible attacks that we saw September 11, 2001.

We must not repeat those mistakes. We must provide a substantial and 
solid foundation to our relationship with Pakistan which includes not 
only military assistance but economic assistance and also should 
require a trade relationship. And I am disappointed that the 
reconstruction opportunity zones provisions were dropped from this 
bill. They were supported by the President of Pakistan who thought they 
were important to economic development there. They were part of 
President Obama's security strategy with respect to Pakistan and 
Afghanistan which he announced in March. Ambassador Holbrooke in a 
letter to the Speaker of the House said that the ROZs, reconstruction 
opportunity zones, are a vital component of our policy towards Pakistan 
in a moment of great challenge, indeed crisis, for that critically 
important nation.

I hope, Mr. Chairman, we can continue to work on this. Thank you for 
your leadership here. I thank Representative Levin, as well, and other 
Members, because I think that the Pakistani President is a good judge 
of what the economic impact would be. And I do find it curious when 
sometimes Members of this Congress substitute their judgment as to what 
would be in the economic interests of Pakistan.