# HONORING SERGEANT CORY LUTTREL CLARK, SR.
## `8b1a4aba58e953b05c19d8c7a6d920e9`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 7 September 2007`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Sergeant Cory L. 
Clark, Sr., of Plant City, FL, who was killed in Afghanistan on August 
28, 2007, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

Assigned to the 585th Pipeline Company, 864th Engineer Combat 
Battalion, stationed in Fort Lewis, WA, Sgt. Clark was an Army engineer 
who was rebuilding roads and bridges in war-torn Afghanistan when he 
was fatally wounded by an improvised explosive device while his unit 
crossed a bridge in Jaji, Afghanistan.

I did not have the privilege of knowing Sgt. Clark personally, but by 
all accounts he was a courageous young man who was devoted to his 
country and family. Prior to joining the Army in April 2001, Cory grew 
up on Jenkins Street in Plant City and was a 2000 graduate of Durant 
High School in eastern Hillsborough County.

Cory enjoyed life, seeing the world, making others smile and his 
mother, Wrenita's, home cooking. Most importantly, he was a beloved 
husband, son and father, who cherished spending time with his family.

Recently promoted to Sergeant, Cory earned a great deal of 
recognition for his service. Among his many awards and honors are the 
Bronze Star Medal, Purple Heart, Army Commendation Medal, 2 Army Good 
Conduct Medals, National Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign 
Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, NATO 
Medal and Combat Action and Weapons Qualification Badges.

Madam Speaker, my heart aches for Cory's family. He is survived by 
his wife, Monica, and his four children, Malik Mitchell, 6; twins Cory 
Jr. and Quinton, both 3; and Kar-Yahna, 9 months. May God bless the 
Clark family and continue to watch over the country that Sgt. Clark so 
loved. We shall never forget him.
