---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `8b261b711bfbb2cd8d5ac8e26161e417`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I salute the leadership and the energy 
of the Senator from Michigan in this area. The Senator is clearly 
passionate about the economic issues we see across the country but 
those that particularly affect her State. There is not a person in this 
body who is not aware of how deeply she cares and how hard she fights 
for the people of Michigan. I am pleased to join her on the floor.

Last month we received the President's budget request for fiscal year 
2009. I am a member, like Senator Stabenow, of the Budget Committee. 
This is the last budget we will receive from President Bush, and I 
think it is an opportune time to look at how this administration's 
policies have affected our economic circumstances and how average 
Americans will suffer as a result.

The Bush policies have generated what deserves to be known as and 
what I will call today, ''the Bush Debt,'' a legacy of indebtedness 
that will burden our children and grandchildren for generations to come 
and cost us the opportunity to help millions of Americans all over this 
country lead lives of promise, prosperity, and happiness. As I have 
traveled across my State, Rhode Islanders have told me over and over 
their stories about struggling to make ends meet--from seniors 
stretching fixed incomes to pay for prescription drugs and housing to 
working families trying to heat their homes and send their children to 
college. Yet President Bush in his budget for fiscal year 2009 has 
proposed deep cuts to Medicare, deep cuts to home heating assistance 
for low-income families, and deep cuts to Federal student aid, 
weakening access to citizens' basic needs.

The administration cites the need for fiscal discipline. The 
President says discipline is necessary to address our Nation's growing 
budget deficits. What the President does not say--and probably never 
will say--is that his own ill- advised, misguided policies created 
those record deficits. It did not have to end this way. But it did, and 
the President must bear the responsibility.

Seven years ago this January, George Bush stood on the western steps 
of this hallowed building and took his oath of office as President of 
the United States. In his first address to the Nation, George Bush 
pledged to call for responsibility and try to live it as well. After a 
divisive election, many Americans found comfort and hope in those 
words. On the budgetary front there was good reason for optimism on 
that cold January morning. After decades of deficit spending, 
bipartisan cooperation between President Clinton and a Republican 
Congress had set the Nation on its healthiest fiscal path in 
generations. After 28 straight years of multibillion dollar budget 
deficits, our Nation saw surpluses beginning in 1998. In President 
Clinton's last full year in office, we saw the largest budget surplus 
in our Nation's history--$236 billion.

The good budgetary news wasn't behind us. The month George Bush moved 
into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, the Congressional Budget Office, the 
nonpartisan accounting arm of Congress, projected we would see 
surpluses straight through the decade. These budget surpluses, the 
product of responsible governing--some might even say fiscally 
conservative governing--were projected to be enough to completely wipe 
out our national debt by 2009. Let me say that again: to completely 
wipe out our national debt by 2009. In other words, the hard work had 
been done. If President Bush had stayed the course of fiscal 
responsibility, he could have been the first President of the United 
States since Andrew Jackson in 1836 to govern a debt-free United 
States, an America with the power and the freedom to support its people 
as they sought new opportunities and new frontiers. Imagine that.

This President's fiscal year 2009 budget, instead of including debt 
service payments, could have requested significant funds for Pell 
grants, for LIHEAP, the badly needed overhaul of our health care 
system, bridge construction, investment in small and environmentally 
friendly business, and countless other valuable programs for ordinary 
Americans.

When President Bush took office, leading economists were debating the 
consequences of this great Nation debt free, standing tall in the world 
with no claim on it by foreign powers. But this President made a 
different choice. Instead of keeping our Nation on the path to economic 
security and prosperity, to new investments in our health care system, 
students, seniors, and veterans, the President who called for 
responsibility squandered away the surpluses he inherited, mortgaged 
our children and grandchildren's futures, and compromised the quality 
of working Americans' lives.

How can we measure the magnitude of the harm done to our economy and 
our people by this administration's decision to deviate from the 
responsible policies of President Clinton?

The first chart shows the budget plans of President Clinton as he 
left office and the budget formulated by President Bush. As you can 
see, the Clinton line, represented in blue, based on his levels of 
taxation and spending, has budget surpluses for every single year of 
this decade. In contrast, the Bush budget line, represented in red, has 
deep record-setting deficits in every year after 2001.

This next chart illustrates the value of the differences between the 
budget landscape planned by President Clinton and the one created by 
President Bush. As we can see, the difference between the two is a 
staggering $7.7 trillion. This number represents the fiscal harm 
President Bush has inflicted on our Nation. This number is ''the Bush 
Debt.'' It consists of a decade of foregone surpluses and new 
borrowing, much of it from foreign nations such as China, Japan, and 
Saudi Arabia. We have even become a debtor nation to Mexico.

Mr. President, $7.7 trillion is more than double the amount of public 
debt when President Bush took office. Like most concepts of enormous 
size, this amount takes some thought to comprehend: $7.7 trillion is 
$25,000 owed by every adult or child in the United States, squandered 
surpluses and new debt created by this President.



How did we move from the path of surpluses away from the promise of 
wiping out our national debt to trillions of dollars in new national 
liabilities? One would hope this administration could at least justify 
the Bush Debt by pointing to borrowing policies that improved average 
Americans' lives. Unfortunately, nothing could be further from the 
truth. Rather, this dramatic change of course stems largely from two of 
this President's many poor decisions over the past 7 years: first, tax 
cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the wealthy at the expense of the 
less fortunate and, second, the President's endless, misguided, unpaid 
war in Iraq. In the same inaugural address in which he called for 
responsibility, President Bush vowed to reduce taxes, even though the 
American economy was booming in the 1990s, under tax levels set by 
President Clinton which were low by both historical and international 
standards.

The irony, of course, is that President Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 
2003 were the height of irresponsibility. Because these massive tax 
cuts were predominantly directed at high-income families rather than 
low-income families, many Americans most in need of assistance were 
shortchanged. These extravagant tax cuts are weighted heavily toward 
the wealthiest Americans. In fact, 71 percent of the value of the tax 
cuts in 2009 will go to the wealthiest fifth of Americans, with a 
staggering 28 percent of the value of the tax cuts going to the top 1 
percent and almost nothing at all going to the lowest earning fifth, 
families who earn $15,000 a year or less. This is George Bush's idea of 
fair tax cuts. And President Bush's insistence on forcing through these 
cuts without making up for the lost revenue, to defer that pain to 
later administrations and later years, was not only cowardly 
leadership, but it left our budget in precarious straits. The Bush tax 
cuts cost a staggering $1.9 trillion and account for 25 percent of the 
$7.7 trillion Bush Debt measured from the start of the Bush presidency 
through 2010, when the tax cuts are set to expire.

Every American knows the importance of balancing his or her own 
household budget. Every American knows the struggle of keeping spending 
in line with income, making sure there is enough money to pay for 
clothing, food, home heating, college tuition, and maybe a little for 
vacation or going out to the movies. Most Americans do a good job of 
balancing budgets but not President Bush. Rather than living by his 
inaugural pledge of responsibility, President Bush preferred to score 
political points by delivering massive tax cuts to his wealthiest 
supporters. He chose not to remain on a responsible fiscal path and 
instead put this country under the crushing burden of a multitrillion-
dollar debt, the Bush Debt.

These tax cuts, while a large slice of the Bush Debt pie, are 
unfortunately not the whole story. There is also a large spending 
component to the Bush Debt, driven principally by the war in Iraq. By 
the end of this year, the price tag for the war in Iraq will have 
exceeded $600 billion. Even if we are successful in pressuring this 
President or the next President to begin redeploying our troops, 
American taxpayers will still have spent at least $740 billion on this 
misguided war by 2010.

Even if the next President gets us quickly out of Iraq, as I hope she 
or he will, we will be paying costs related to this war for years to 
come. We must care for our veterans and for the families of fallen 
soldiers. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the cost of 
medical care, disability payments, and compensation for the families of 
fallen soldiers will cost between $10 billion and $13 billion in the 
next 10 years alone. We have a moral obligation to take care of the 
brave men and women who sacrificed their youth, health, limbs, and 
sometimes their lives to serve their Nation. These are costs, however, 
that we need never have had to bear. While they pale in comparison to 
the personal cost incurred by service members and their families, these 
monetary costs are nonetheless significant, and they will affect 
America's security for decades to come.

Like all debt, the Bush Debt requires interest payments. Every day 
Americans make interest payments on mortgages, car loans, student 
loans, or credit cards. According to President Bush's proposed budget 
for fiscal year 2009, next year alone, America will owe $260 billion in 
interest on the Bush Debt. Two hundred sixty billion in interest 
payments equates to $857 to our creditors in Japan, China, and Saudi 
Arabia for every man, woman, and child in the United States, next year 
and the year after that and long into the future.

To make matters worse, if you can believe this--hold on to your hat--
the Bush administration is borrowing the money to make the interest 
payments, further adding to the debt. Imagine if we could take the $7.7 
trillion Bush Debt off budget and set up a separate revenue system to 
make the interest payments--to feed the beast. Then every taxpayer 
would see we are doing something about this unprecedented debt. We 
should consider forming a commission, a Bush Debt repayment authority, 
to study the possibility of bringing the Bush Debt off the budget to 
show the American people how much this President has cost them, to pay 
the Bush Debt down responsibly over time, the way Government often 
steps in to pay down a disaster debt responsibly over time, and to show 
our children and grandchildren that we were not all cowards pushing our 
costs onto them.

This enormous interest payment isn't an abstract idea dreamed up by 
economists. This $260 billion is precious cash flow that could 
otherwise be spent improving our health care system, building new 
schools, repairing our roads and bridges, or helping our businesses 
compete against foreign competition.

Individual Americans may not be writing $857 checks to Japan or China 
or Saudi Arabia, but each one of us pays a steep price for the Bush 
debt--a price that is already evident in the President's budget for 
this year.

The budget request that included $260 billion for interest payments 
also included tough talk about belt tightening. The President proposes 
to hold discretionary spending growth to 1 percent--effectively a cut 
since the consumer price index grew 4.1 percent last year.

His budget plan slashed funds for low-income heating assistance; the 
COPS Program, which keeps police officers on the beat to protect local 
communities; Federal student aid programs, which help young people 
afford a college education; and community development grants, which 
provide badly needed assistance for low-income families and small 
businesses. The President's budget also calls for tremendous cuts in 
Medicare and Medicaid over the next 5 years--cuts that would surely 
affect medical care for American families.

President Bush is asking for more money to continue his misguided war 
in Iraq, more money to service the debt he created, and more money to 
pay for tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, but less money to help 
the millions of people all across this country who need health 
insurance or food for their families or better schools for their 
children or a home they can afford. Those are not the correct 
priorities for America, President Bush.

What if President Bush had never cut rich Americans' taxes or taken 
us to war in Iraq? What if the fiscally responsible policies of the 
Clinton administration had continued to the present day? What if our 
public debt had been paid entirely by the end of next year, leaving us 
free to invest in our people and our future? What if there were no $7.7 
trillion Bush debt and no $260 billion in interest payments next year? 
What could this country--the land of opportunity and possibility--be 
doing with an extra $260 billion a year?

Well, for just $5 billion--or 2 percent of the interest cost of the 
Bush debt in 2009--we could provide health insurance to 3.8 million 
more children through the Children's Health Insurance Program--the very 
initiative President Bush vetoed last year. Actually, according to the 
Kaiser Family Foundation, we could provide health insurance to every 
uninsured American--adults and children--for $173 billion. So well 
within the amount of money we will need to spend next year to service 
the Bush debt, we could completely cover every American with quality 
health care.

There are many other worthy programs we could fund with the remainder 
of the $260 billion interest payment. Our Head Start Program, which


helps prepare preschool-age children from low-income families to 
succeed in kindergarten and beyond, currently has barely enough 
resources to cover half of the 2 million children who are eligible. The 
remaining 1 million children could be covered for an additional $7 
billion.

Pell grants, named after my distinguished Senator from Rhode Island, 
Claiborne Pell, help college students afford the steep costs of their 
education. We made progress last year in increasing funding for the 
Pell Grant Program, but Pell grants only fund a small fraction of 
tuition for many students. It used to fund about half of the tuition. 
It has slipped to less than a third today. We could double every single 
Pell grant next year, raising the maximum grant to over $8,400, for $18 
billion.

With the remaining $62 billion in our ''world without Bush,'' we 
could bring up to code 95 percent of the structurally deficient and 
functionally obsolete bridges in the country, with all the work and 
jobs that would entail. My home State of Rhode Island has the unhappy 
distinction of having the highest percentage of structurally deficient 
bridges in the country. But following the tragic bridge collapse in 
Minneapolis last year, there is a renewed awareness of the urgency of 
updating our national transportation infrastructure. That $62 billion 
covers 95 percent of our Nation's deficient bridges and funds those 
repairs in fiscal year 2009. What about the other 5 percent? Well, we 
will have another $280 billion in Bush debt interest payments coming up 
in 2010. We could spend it--if we could--to fix those bridges.

Another year of tragic lost opportunities. We will make annual 
interest payments of this magnitude until a future President takes on 
the daunting challenge of paying down the principle of the national 
debt left for us by President Bush.

Well, that is quite a list: cover every uninsured American with 
health insurance, fully fund the Head Start Program, double each and 
every Pell grant, and repair our deficient bridges. Sadly, we do none 
of that. We use that money to pay the interest on the Bush debt. We 
will be making payments for the Bush debt for decades into the future.

An often ignored yet critical aspect of the Bush debt is the effect 
interest payments have on our national security--the very interest the 
administration purports to be advancing through its misguided war in 
Iraq. This chart illustrates the point.

To service the Bush debt, we have borrowed more money from 
foreigners, more money from other nations, such as China, Japan, and 
Saudi Arabia, under George Bush than under all 42 of his predecessors 
combined. The result of this foreign borrowing is that a large portion 
of the interest payments we make gets sent overseas, supplementing the 
income of foreigners and allowing foreign nations to invest in their 
economies and infrastructures. If not for the Bush debt, that money 
could be invested here at home, helping to grow American businesses and 
generate income and strength for our own future generations. Instead, 
the Bush debt has helped, and will continue to help, boost the Chinese 
economy at the cost of our own. The Bush debt will send trillions of 
dollars to foreign nations over the coming years, giving them even more 
dollars to buy up our American businesses.


When the Presidency of George W. Bush comes to its long-anticipated 
end on January 20, 2009, it will leave in its destructive wake 
trillions of dollars in debt owed to other nations, many of which do 
not have America's best interests at heart. This administration will 
leave behind an America whose standing in the world and whose regard 
among its fellow nations has been weakened and degraded by a war that 
seems to have no end--a fiscally weakened nation, a borrower, with a 
falling economy, struggling under the Bush debt.

Worst of all, this President will leave behind millions of Americans 
who, had this administration merely stayed the course of fiscal 
responsibility chartered by President Clinton, would be far better off 
than they are today. They would be, starting in 2009, in a debt-free 
United States that could afford to assist working families with the 
costs of a college education, to overhaul our health care system, to 
repair our crumbling infrastructure, to invest in small and green 
businesses, and to improve the lives of average Americans in countless 
other ways.

We cannot ignore the Bush debt. While George Bush starts packing for 
his retirement on his Texas ranch, those of us who care about the 
future of our Nation--the future of our children--must work toward 
undoing the damage this President has done.

Mr. President, I submit that we need to see the Bush debt as a 
serious national problem, a fiscal, economic, and national security 
threat, and engage in a solemn and serious way, as the trustees of our 
national welfare, to confront the Bush debt.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.