---
---

# SCHIP
## `8b4816348a54037dbef13c8b388cf4c3`
`Mr. DORGAN — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. In fact, the request before the Senate Appropriations 
Committee this afternoon for the war in Iraq is two requests: $145 
billion that now exists for this year, and we expect another $50 
billion on top of it. That is nearly $200 billion in one single year, 
totaling about three-quarters of a trillion dollars, over time none of 
it paid for. This program to provide health insurance to children is $7 
billion a year fully paid for.

What bothers me about this issue is this clearly is an issue of 
trying to take care of things here at home. What is more important than 
taking care of a young child who is sick? It is interesting to me, we 
voted a while back about making English the national language. It is a 
reasonable request. If you want to become an American citizen, you 
ought to aspire to learn the language, English. Yet I come to the floor 
and I hear a foreign language. I don't understand what they are talking 
about: ''socialized medicine,'' ''Cuban-style, government-run health 
care.'' It seems to me they ought to speak English. I get so tired of 
people using these terms, such as ''socialized medicine.'' Yes, there 
is a government aspect to this issue. But as my colleague said, much of 
this is the private sector as well implementing it.

I am so tired of people saying the Government can't do a thing. How 
about those firefighters climbing the World Trade Center and giving 
their lives as those buildings came down? You know what, they were on 
the public payroll, were they not? Public service, that is what they 
were doing. Government workers. How about the teachers taking care of 
our kids today in the classroom? Government workers; yes, they are. How 
about Dr. Francis Collins working at NIH, who gave us the owners manual 
for the human body with the mapping of the genome code? Are we proud of 
him? Government worker.

I am a little tired of this language--''socialized medicine,'' 
''Cuban-style system.'' What a load. That is thoughtless rather than 
thoughtful debate. This is not some massive socialized medicine 
program.

I say to my colleagues, look a 4-year-old child in the eye who is 
hurting and say to them: You know what, we made a decision that the 
question of whether you get to see a doctor or get to go to a clinic or 
get to go to a hospital today is a function of how much money your 
parents have, and if they don't have the requisite amount of money, I 
am sorry, youngster; tough luck. I am sorry. Just bear the pain. We 
shouldn't do that. As a country, we shouldn't do it.

What is a higher priority than our children and our children's 
health? How on Earth, given what we are doing, spending money in this 
Chamber, a $200 billion request this afternoon before the Senate 
Appropriations Committee, none of it paid for, on an emergency basis, 
$200 billion, and now


we come with a $35 billion request fully paid for to address the issue 
of children who do not get health care, children who, when they get 
sick, do not have adequate health care--what is more important for this 
country?

I don't understand. I have said from time to time, we have all these 
events in the Olympics for running and jumping. If ever there were an 
event for sidestepping, I have some gold medal candidates in this 
Chamber. Sidestepping the important issue--they don't want to talk 
about the question of why do you not want to address the health care of 
children. They want to talk about other issues--socialized medicine. It 
is a foreign language to me, but maybe not to some.

I guess I would ask this question: Can we--not just on this subject 
but other subjects as well--can we come to the floor of the Senate and 
take some pride in taking care of business at home? My colleague from 
Oregon and I offered the only amendment that cut down a bit the $20 
billion--yes, with a ''B''--$20 billion this Congress passed for 
reconstruction in Iraq. A massive amount of it was wasted. Talking 
about health care, guess what. We gave a $243 million contract to a 
private contractor to rehabilitate 142 health care clinics in Iraq. An 
Iraqi doctor went to the Health Minister of Iraq and said: I would like 
to see the health clinics that were rehabilitated. The money is all 
gone. The Iraqi Health Minister said: In many cases, those are 
imaginary health clinics. The money is gone. Reconstruction in Iraq--
how about taking care of things at home? How about doing first things 
first? And you tell me what is in second place. The first place, in my 
judgment, is taking care of America's kids, and we don't do this 
through some massive Government program, through some socialized health 
care system, some Cuban-style system of Government programs. We do this 
in a thoughtful way, and we do it in a way that works.

How do we know it works? Because this program has existed and been an 
exemplary program, and it has given low-income families an opportunity 
to believe that when their kids get sick and they don't have money and 
are having a tough time, they can still take their kids to a doctor. 
God bless them for knowing that and God bless the Congress and the 
President for doing something about it in past years.

It is very different now. We are trying to expand the program to 
millions of additional kids, and we are told somehow this is a program 
that is unworthy, it cannot be done this way, it is some sort of big 
bureaucratic mess. Nothing could be further from the truth--nothing.

I hope when the dust settles this week and we do the conference 
report, I hope we understand that this conference report is 
bipartisan--Senator Grassley, Senator Baucus, Senator Hatch, Senator 
Kennedy, and so many others have advanced this legislation on the 
floor, Republicans and Democrats. Let's pass this legislation, and 
let's hope the small amount of opposition in this Chamber will not 
deter us from doing what we know is best for the country. And, second, 
let's expect this President to sign it. I know he has threatened to 
veto the bill. Let's expect him to sign it because it is taking care of 
business at home and doing first things first.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.