---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `8b4dc030ea806b87fdb90c902845c1a0`
`Mr. HARKIN — 10 July 2008`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, today, the Senate considered nominations 
for two very important positions that will affect how our country moves 
forward in Iraq and the Middle East. While I highly respect the service 
that these men have provided to their country, I do not believe that 
either General Petraeus or Lieutenant General Odierno will take the 
United States in the direction that we need, particularly in Iraq where 
we need a timetable for redeployment of United States forces so that 
our country can begin to more effectively address the very real


threat posed by terrorists in other areas, such as Afghanistan, as well 
as around the globe.

I believe that General Petraeus has been an unapologetic supporter of 
this misguided war in Iraq, continually toeing the administration's 
party line and failing to acknowledge many of the grave failings that 
have occurred. The military alone will not be able to stabilize Iraq, 
we must understand the political and diplomatic situation at hand, and 
I do not believe that under General Petraeus' leadership, the necessary 
reconciliation to allow the Iraqi Government to take control has 
occurred. General Petraeus has shown no willingness to take us in this 
new direction, and it is for this reason that cannot support his 
nomination.

With respect to Lieutenant General Odierno, I believe that his past 
command of the 4th Infantry Division demonstrated what I consider to be 
serious flaws in judgment. General Odierno refused to characterize the 
insurgency that began after the fall of the Saddam Hussein regime as 
anything that was serious and worthy of U.S. strategy shift. As we 
know, the failure to correctly assess the nature of the insurgency 
helped fuel years of violence in Iraq.

We are long overdue for a new course in Iraq. The tragically 
overwhelming costs of this war in both lives and resources have 
distracted us from the initial task of fighting al-Qaida. It is time 
that we have leaders who will be able to independently assess our 
military mission in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Middle East rather than 
unquestionably support the failed policies of this administration.
