# None
## `8b50c013ae49e30fea148fda3ab21c63`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the 2007 farm 
bill. Before I go to the specifics of the bill, I wish to acknowledge 
those who have worked so hard in getting us where we are today.

This has been a huge undertaking spread out over several years, 
starting under the leadership of Senator Chambliss and his work in the 
Agriculture Committee. The hearings he held around the country, the 
hearings he held in the West and the Southeast, all over, contributed 
greatly to the bipartisan product that is before the Senate today. In 
addition, the leadership of our chairman, Senator Harkin, a man from 
farm country whose heart and soul are about making sure agriculture and 
rural America thrive--his leadership and the help of his staff in 
getting us to this point today is something we all must acknowledge and 
something for which I am grateful and something for which the farmers 
and ranchers in rural Colorado are grateful.

I also acknowledge both Senators Baucus and Grassley and their 
leadership on the Finance Committee. The energy and specialty crops and 
conservation pieces of the farm bill have been significantly enhanced 
by the actions taken by the members of the Finance Committee. Without 
the leadership and bipartisan example of Senator Baucus and Senator 
Grassley, we would not be where we are today.



It goes without saying that even though there are many laudatory 
comments given to the chairman and ranking member of both the 
Agriculture and Finance Committees, there are working on both of those 
committees many other Members of the Senate who have helped craft what 
I believe is one of the most historic pieces of legislation to come 
before this body. It will open a new chapter for agriculture and rural 
America, a product of which I am very proud.

I also thank the agricultural leaders in my State of Colorado who 
have been so helpful to me over the last 2/1/2/ years as we have helped 
craft the farm bill before the Senate: Commissioner John Stup, the 
commissioner of Colorado's Department of Agriculture; Kent Peppler and 
Lee Swensen with the Rocky Mountain Farmers Union; Alan Foutz and Troy 
Bredekamp, leaders of the Colorado Farm Bureau; Nick Midcap, Darrell 
Hannavan, and Dusty Tallman, who have labored so hard on this bill, who 
are with the Colorado Wheat Growers Association; Byron Weathers and 
Mark Sponslor, leaders of the Colorado Corn Growers Association; Terry 
Frankhauser with the Colorado Cattlemen's Association; Scott Johnson 
and Bill Hammerich with the Colorado Livestock Association; and from 
the Independent Cattlemen of Colorado, Doug Zalesky, John Reid, and 
Reid and Kathleen Kelly. I thank Gregg Yando with the Colorado Dairy 
Farmers of America, Jim Ehrlich with the Colorado Potato Administrative 
Council, and a host of other Colorado people who have been instrumental 
in our efforts in moving this bill forward.

This legislation is truly a bipartisan, forward-thinking, balanced 
package. It is truly the example of how this Senate ought to work, 
bringing Democrats and Republicans together on what is a major issue. 
The effort of Senator Reid, the majority leader, to get us to a point 
where we will reach conclusion on this bill is something I appreciate. 
This is, after all, the farm bill. We ought not be debating the great 
issues of our time, whether those be Iraq or immigration or issues 
having to do with Latin America, issues that are extraneous, on this 
legislation. Senator Reid's effort to make sure what we are doing is to 
keep the focus of this bill on agriculture and rural America and the 
substantive components of the farm bill is important. I hope my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Republicans and Democrats, will 
say: Yes, we have to get a process that gets us to conclusion on the 
farm bill.

Today is a particularly proud day for me. The occupant of the chair 
was very involved in helping me understand the importance of becoming a 
Senator. For that, I will always be appreciative. I still remember that 
in my maiden speech on the floor more than 2 years ago, I spoke about 
the possibilities and the promise that America's small towns and rural 
communities offer for a country that is in need of clean renewable 
energy, a secure food supply, and responsible stewardship of our land 
and our water. Unfortunately, for too long Washington has overlooked 
the opportunities rural America can provide and, through a policy of 
neglect and disinterest, has allowed small towns and rural communities 
across the country to wither on the vine.

This legislation will change that course of neglect. The bill before 
us will bring new life and energy to rural America. It will do so in a 
number of different ways. It will do so through a set of smart 
investments that help farmers and ranchers and business men and women 
build a clean energy economy that has its roots in the fields of 
America's farmers and ranchers. It lays the infrastructure for rural 
broadband and microbusiness loans for accelerated economic development 
in rural areas. It creates incentives for the wise stewardship of land 
and water--practices from which we can all benefit. It puts money into 
nutrition programs that take on the scourge of hunger and allow low-
income children to learn in our schools. It helps bring balance and 
certainty to the agricultural markets so that Americans can continue to 
enjoy a healthy and secure food supply. It does all of this while 
closing loopholes that have allowed Federal dollars to end up in the 
hands of people who should not have been eligible for assistance in the 
first place. It is a smart and fiscally responsible bill.


I grew up on a ranch in the San Luis Valley a few miles north of the 
Colorado-New Mexico border. My family has farmed and ranched that same 
land for five generations. For much of my life, I spent long days in 
the fields with my family tending to the cattle, baling hay, and fixing 
fences. It was hard work, and my hands are permanently calloused from 
nearly three decades of work on that ranch. But from that work, we 
always knew we loved our ranch, our land and water, and our way of 
life. To be a farmer or a rancher is a hard life, let there be no 
mistake about that. While the rest of the world might go home at 5 
o'clock in the afternoon, for those who are working the farms and the 
ranches, you don't go home until probably half an hour after the sun 
sets at 9 o'clock. It is very hard work.

My parents always said that they could not give us--my seven brothers 
and sisters--material riches, but they could teach us values that come 
from work, family, and faith. These are the values one finds in rural 
communities across America. These are the priceless and timeless values 
that built this country. In 1787, Thomas Jefferson sent a letter to 
George Washington in which he talked about the role of the farmer in a 
young democracy. Thomas Jefferson said: ''Agriculture . . . is our 
wisest pursuit because it will in the end contribute most to real 
wealth, good morals and happiness.''

Those of us who have had the privilege of growing up on a farm or a 
ranch or of visiting some farms and spending time with America's 
producers can appreciate how important agriculture and our rural 
communities are. Unfortunately, in the coming days this bill will be 
criticized by some in the media, by some Members in this Chamber, and 
others for being too favorable to farmers, for putting too much money 
into conservation programs, for supporting rural development 
initiatives, or for making too many investments in biofuels production. 
In short, critics will ask why Federal dollars should go into programs 
that on the surface only appear to benefit rural communities. They are 
wrong. The answer is very simple: The health of our farms, ranches, and 
our rural communities is vital to American prosperity. Everyone 
benefits from a strong and smart farm bill. The farmer in eastern 
Colorado, the third grader eating fresh fruits and vegetables at lunch, 
and the mother who wants us to reduce our dependence on foreign oil all 
gain from a strong and balanced farm bill.

I wish to take a few moments to walk through the bill and explain why 
it is so important for farmers, for children, and for all Americans 
that the Senate pass this bill.

Since being elected to the Senate in 2004, I have often spoken about 
how Washington's policies in recent years have been blind to the needs 
of rural Americans. More than half of the counties in America are 
rural. In my State of Colorado, 44 of the 64 counties are rural. In my 
view, Washington's neglect of rural America has made rural America a 
forgotten America. Businesses on main streets in many towns and 
villages across my State have been boarded up. FSA offices have been 
closed or attempted to be closed, including the very recent actions of 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Family farmers are having to sell 
their land after years of drought. To see Washington's neglect of our 
rural communities is disheartening, when we know how much possibility 
and promise rural America holds. With modest investments, rural America 
can be the engine of a clean energy economy, fueling an alternative 
energy revolution that capitalizes on the hard work, productivity, and 
entrepreneurship of farmers and ranchers.

This is why I am so pleased that the 2007 farm bill makes such wise 
investments in rural development. The bill provides $355 million for 
rural development. These investments will enable entrepreneurs in rural 
communities to leverage microenterprise loans to build their 
businesses. They will help health care providers provide access to 
underserved rural communities. They will help get broadband Internet 
access into small towns. Broadband access is to rural communities in 
the 21st century what highways were in the 20th century and railroads 
were in the 19th century. It is the infrastructure that is essential to 
economic development. The $26 million in this bill for broadband


will help close the digital divide that is preventing rural businesses 
and entrepreneurs from fully participating in the global economy.

Second, this bill includes an energy title that opens up a new 
chapter of opportunity for rural America. In the 2005 Energy Policy Act 
and in the Energy bill we passed earlier this year, we planted the 
seeds for a renewable energy revolution so that we can reduce our very 
dangerous dependence on foreign oil. The farm bill takes the next step, 
helping farmers and ranchers take advantage of new energy technologies 
that have been developed in places such as the National Renewable 
Energy Laboratory in Golden, CO. With the $1.3 billion this bill 
devotes to energy programs, farmers will be able to apply for grants to 
develop biorefineries and to improve the handling, harvest, transport, 
and storage of feedstocks for biofuels. The bill includes tax credits 
for small wind turbines and cellulosic biofuel production. It 
stimulates research into the methods and technologies that will allow 
the most productive land in the world to provide more and more of our 
energy. Our farmers and ranchers want to be a part of the solution to 
our addiction to foreign oil. They want to help reduce the amount of 
oil we import while helping stimulate a clean energy economy that is 
built on innovation, technology, and taking advantage of the production 
capabilities of rural America.

This energy title is a win-win for our rural communities. It is my 
hope that with this energy title in the farm bill, together with the 
other energy legislation we have adopted in the Senate and in 
committee, the vision Senator Grassley and I had with respect to the 25 
by 2025 resolution will help us grow our way to energy independence, 
because the 25 by 2025 resolution recognizes at its heart that we in 
America can grow 25 percent of our energy from renewable energy 
resources by the year 2025. This farm bill takes us a significant way 
down that road.


The third aspect of the legislation I want to emphasize is the 
conservation title. Farmers and ranchers are some of the best stewards 
of our land and water. We need a farm bill that recognizes and 
encourages the good stewardship practices from which we all benefit.

To understand why the conservation programs in the farm bill are so 
important--and to understand how we will all benefit from them--just 
visit one of the ranches along the Yampa River in northwest Colorado. 
You quickly see the ranchers there do not simply put high-quality, 
grassfed beef on our dinner table. They guard the open spaces that draw 
sightseers and recreationalists from all around the world. They protect 
the clean water that comes to our homes. They provide habitat for fish 
and game, bringing millions of dollars in revenue from fishing and 
hunting into our State.

Unfortunately, you cannot find a price on the Chicago Mercantile 
Exchange for these values in clean water, clean air, habitat, and open 
space dividends that ranchland and farmland provide to America. And if 
a ranch goes under or is developed, we lose the conservation value that 
farms and ranches provide.

So how do we address this challenge? How do we address this challenge 
in this bill? We do it through existing, effective programs that reward 
farmers and ranchers for the conservation practices from which we all 
benefit.

Thanks to Chairman Harkin's leadership, the 2007 farm bill is the 
greenest farm bill in the history of America. It reauthorizes highly 
successful conservation programs such as the Environmental Quality 
Incentives Program, EQIP, and the Conservation Reserve Program, CRP.

The bill reauthorizes EQIP, which provides cost-share funding and 
technical assistance to producers so they can address environmental 
issues on their lands. In Colorado, we receive around $30 million to 
$40 million a year for projects that, for example, reduce water waste, 
improve water quality or provide fencing that keeps livestock out of 
sensitive areas.

The bill also reauthorizes the Conservation Reserve Program, which 
helps producers retire and restore agricultural land that, if taken out 
of production, would provide significant environmental benefits. In 
Colorado alone, we have around 2.3 million acres enrolled in CRP for 
purposes ranging from erosion control and habitat preservation to 
improving water use. The reauthorization in this bill will allow us to 
continue to make these wise investments in stewardship.

Mr. President, a parliamentary inquiry: How much time do I have?