# GUANTANAMO BAY
## `8b61873ef54ad080e099dda9acff5f6b`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 17 March 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, a lot has been written over the past 
several days about the inmates at Guantanamo, and none of it makes the 
administration's decision to shut this facility down by the end of the 
year any less challenging than it already was. This is an issue which 
has grave implications for our Nation's security, and we really need to 
get it right. So this morning, I wish to spend a few minutes explaining 
why the administration would do well to reconsider its approach to 
Guantanamo, an approach that looks even hastier now than when it was 
first announced back in January.

One of the most obvious problems the administration faces on this 
issue is what to do with these inmates once Guantanamo is closed. This 
is not a new concern. Ever since the United States started using 
Guantanamo as a detention facility after the invasion of Afghanistan, 
Government officials and legal thinkers have tried to come up with ways 
of dealing with enemy combatants who don't fall into the traditional 
categories of war. No one denies that the United States is legally 
entitled to capture and to hold enemy fighters to prevent them from 
returning to battle, but their release and repatriation have proved to 
be extremely complicated. As the years have passed, these questions 
have become even more complicated--not less--than they were back in 
2001.

Just this week, a number of European countries that had previously 
offered to help the administration find a new home for about 60 of the 
remaining 241 inmates at Guantanamo began to backpedal. Some of these 
countries now indicate they won't take any of these inmates unless the 
United States agrees to take some of them as well and agrees to put 
them in American prisons. This is clearly a dodge since the American 
people appear to be even less interested in housing these inmates than 
the Europeans are. Well, if there is no place for these terrorists to 
go in Europe and no place for them to go in the United States, an 
obvious question arises: Where else can they go? At the moment, there 
is no answer to that most important question.


When the question of sending detainees to U.S. soil was put to the 
Senate in the summer of 2007, the vote against it was 94 to 3. We had 
that vote right here in the Senate in the summer of 2007, and by a vote 
of 94 to 3 Members of the Senate said they did not want these 
Guantanamo prisoners on U.S. soil. This is not only a good reflection 
of where public opinion is on the issue, it is also notable that four 
of the votes cast were Senators from Kansas and Colorado, States that 
are most often mentioned as possibilities to house the inmates. One of 
these Senators, Ken Salazar, is now in the Obama administration, and 
former Kansas Governor Kathleen Sebelius, who also opposes sending 
inmates to Kansas, is the administration's pick to head the Department 
of Health and Human Services. So the bottom line here is that it is 
hard to find anyone anywhere, even inside the Obama administration, who 
wants their State to become the next home to captured violent 
terrorists.

Now, there is a reason no one wants to have these guys nearby. Over 
the years, the pool of prisoners at Guantanamo has become only more 
dangerous, not less, and those who remain include dozens of proud and 
self-proclaimed--proud and self-proclaimed--members of al-Qaida. Many 
have been directly linked to some of the worst terrorist attacks in 
history, including some who had direct knowledge--direct knowledge--of 
September 11. Others have trained or funded terrorists, made bombs or 
presented themselves as potential suicide bombers.

We recently got a vivid glimpse into the minds of these men when a 
number of them responded in writing to the Government's charges against 
them. Here are some of the excerpts from the document which was signed 
by five men whose names appear on the chart right behind me:




 With regard to these nine accusations that you are putting 


 us on trial for--


So said one of the terrorists--



 to us, they are not accusations. To us, they are badges of 


 honor which we carry with pride . . . therefore, killing you 


 and fighting you, destroying you and terrorizing you, 


 responding back to your attacks, are all considered to be 


 great legitimate duty in our religion.


Later on, these men refer to the September 11 attacks as ''the 
blessed 11 September operation.''

Toward the end of the document, they make a statement and a 
prediction. Here is what they said:




 We ask to be near to God, we fight you and destroy you and 


 terrorize you. . . . your end is very near and your fall will 


 be just as the fall of the towers on the blessed 9/11 day. . 


 . . so we ask from God to accept our contributions to the 


 great attack, the great attack on America, and to place our 


 nineteen martyred brethren among the highest peaks in 


 paradise. . . .


One of the most chilling statements in the document is the simple 
assertion by these men, quoted on the chart behind me:




 We are terrorists to the bone.


''We are terrorists to the bone.''

This is how they see themselves. These are the men the administration 
wants to release from Guantanamo?

Not only are most of the remaining inmates at Guantanamo extremely 
dangerous, they are also increasingly likely to return to battle if 
they are transferred back to their home countries. According to 
Pentagon reports, detainees who have been released from Guantanamo 
appear to be reengaging in terrorism at higher rates, with the current 
rate of those either suspected or confirmed of reengaging in terrorism 
at about 12 percent. About 12 percent of those who have been released 
are back in the fight.

More than a third of the detainees who have already been released 
were from Saudi Arabia, which has its own detention and rehabilitation 
system. But our confidence in that system has been shaken by recent 
reports that Saudi detainees who returned home have gone back to 
fighting.

Last month, two Saudis who were released from Guantanamo and who 
passed through the Saudi rehabilitation program appeared in a video as 
members of al-Qaida in Yemen. One of them, Ali al-Shihri, is thought to 
have been involved in a deadly bombing on the U.S. Embassy in Yemen 
last September.

Al-Shirhi was released to Saudi Arabia from Guantanamo in 2007.

Even more worrisome than the Saudi detainees, however, is the 
prospect of releasing Yemeni detainees to Yemen since Yemen has shown 
little ability to control even the most dangerous terrorists we 
release. Of the 100 Yemenis who remain at Guantanamo, about 15 have 
been cleared for transfer to Yemen. Another 15 may face trial in the 
United States. Some of the remaining Yemenis could go to Saudi Arabia, 
but the Yemeni Government is protesting the move.

Other inmates who have been released have shown up on the battlefield 
in places like Pakistan and Iraq. One former inmate from Kuwait 
traveled to Syria after his release, snuck into Iraq, and plotted 
attacks against U.S. forces there. He eventually drove a truck packed 
with explosives into a joint American and Iraqi military training camp, 
blowing himself up, and killing 13 Iraqi soldiers.

Each one of these concerns is serious enough to warrant a 
reconsideration of the administration's decision to close the detention 
facility at Guantanamo Bay. Taken together it is hard to imagine the 
administration is not already having second thoughts. Of the 
alternatives that have been considered, some, like a transfer of 
detainees to Europe, may no longer be viable.

But even if these inmates were sent to Europe, one all-important 
question would remain: What then? Will they be released? With a 
recidivism rate now hovering around 12 percent, this is a risk that is 
simply too dangerous to take--especially when it only takes


one terrorist to inflict unimaginable horror.

According to the European Union's own rules, a detainee who is 
released within a 25-nation area within the EU is free to move about 
these countries without even a passport check. A member of al-Qaida who 
is sent to Europe and subsequently released could easily reenter a 
transnational terrorist network--and the recidivism rate suggests that 
this is not at all unlikely.

Guantanamo itself, on the other hand, has proven to be a completely 
secure facility: in more than 7 years of use, not a single prisoner has 
escaped Guantanamo to maim or kill a single innocent person. Let me 
repeat that: in the more than 7 years that we have used Guantanamo as a 
detention facility, not a single prisoner out of the roughly 800 who 
have been housed there has escaped to maim or kill a single innocent 
person.

No one has credibly argued that the inmates are poorly treated: three 
meals a day, a full library or books, magazines, and DVDs, and medical 
care that is said to be excellent. Indeed, one European official who 
visited in 2006 called Guantanamo ''a model'' prison and better than 
the ones in Belgium. This is not Abu Ghraib.

Attorney General Eric Holder is in charge of the review of the 
detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. He captured the dilemma over 
Guantanamo after a recent trip there when he offered a glowing report 
on the facility, said the prisoners were being treated well--and then 
reiterated the administration's intent to close it within the year. On 
some level, the Attorney General must realize how illogical this seems. 
If he doesn't, then for the sake of the safety of the United States and 
its citizens, it is my hope that he realizes it before the end of the 
year.

President Obama was right and courageous to rethink an artificial 
deadline on withdrawing U.S. forces from Iraq. As we approach another 
artificial deadline, it is my hope that he rethinks this decision 
irrespective of what they may think in certain European capitals. Any 
shift in our policy on these detainees must meet a simple test: Will it 
keep us as safe as Guantanamo has from men like the ones whose names 
appear behind me? If the answer is no, then the policy we have is best. 
At the moment, the only safe option is to keep the inmates at 
Guantanamo in one place--and that's right where they are.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
the court order to publish the Islamic Response to the Government's 
nine accusations and the Response itself.


 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. KHALID SHEIKH MOHAMMED, WALID 