---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `8b6d7e7a75c97cc084ba597691c381b7`
`Mr. COBURN — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. COBURN. Mr. President, the Senate is going to take up, tomorrow, 
in rather full detail, an emergency supplemental spending bill. I think 
it is real important, first, for the American people to know what an 
emergency supplemental bill is supposed to be. It is supposed to be 
about funding unforeseen problems we could not have anticipated in the 
regular appropriations process. For a very small amount of this bill, 
that may be true.

This bill is $121 billion of your grandchildren's and great-
grandchildren's money. This bill does not have to stay within the 
budgetary limitations Congress sets on itself. This bill goes outside 
every rule we have in terms of controlling the budget, living within 
our means, and it says: Here is a credit card.

Now, by the way, on the way to funding the war in Iraq, the wisdom of 
the Senate has added--and it is $21 billion in the House--about $18.9 
billion in a wish list. It is a Christmas tree. If each of us in our 
own personal lives ran our businesses or our households the way 
Congress is running the emergency supplemental process, we would do it 
for about 1 year. Then we would be going to bankruptcy court, and we 
would be losing the vast majority of our possessions because we would 
not have been deemed to be responsible with the assets we had.

There lies the problem. It is the culture of Congress that thinks we 
can put a hood over the American people's eyes so they will not know 
what we are about to do in the next 4 or 5 days in this Chamber. You 
are going to hear all the reasons in the world why somebody needs 
something, except it is never going to be held in contrast to the loss 
of the standard of living of our grandchildren. Yes, there are 
agricultural needs out there we should have funded a year ago.

The chairman of the Budget Committee said when he would get in power, 
when the Democrats would get in power, they were going to pay for it--
except here we have an emergency agriculture supplemental bill, a good 
portion of which is needed but it is not paid for. There is no offset 
anywhere else in the hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of waste in 
the discretionary side of the budget alone, to reduce something else so 
we can take care of those who need us now.

There is another aspect to this funding bill; that is, the politics 
that plays into it over the debate on the Iraq war. What we are seeing 
play out is a double-edged sword of how do we hurt the troops in the 
field by adding things to a supplemental bill to take care of them, 
when there has already been a threatened veto over the bill because it 
adds $18.9 billion more than what the President asked for to fund the 
war.

So as you listen, in the next 4 or 5 days, to the Senate debate this 
bill, there are a couple things you ought to pay attention to, and you 
ought to ask yourself the question: Where is the money coming from to 
pay for this bill? Where is the sacrifice from the generations today to 
do what the Members of this body want to do?

There is no sacrifice. We are not calling on anybody to sacrifice. 
What we are saying is: Those unborn, those young, those who are about 
to be born, and the children of those who are young, unborn or about to 
be born are the ones who are going to pay for it.

It portends a great moral question of our society today: How is it we 
can totally turn upside down the heritage of this country, the heritage 
of a country that has been built on the following premise: ''I am going 
to work hard. I am going to sacrifice. And I am going to serve so that 
my children and grandchildren get ahead''? Have we become such a 
selfish country that we do not care about the next two generations?

I think the Senate has spoken, at least the appropriators have 
spoken. They have said ''yes,'' it is OK to do things such as pay for 
the conventions, in August, of the Democratic and Republican Parties 
for the additional funds that will be needed for police enforcement 
with an emergency bill. Our grandchildren are not going to benefit from 
that. The political process today is. But we put it in this bill 
because it means if we put it in this bill, it will not be charged 
against the regular budget process. It is another way to spend more 
money. So let's move more things into the emergency category, so we do 
not have to be responsible when the rest of the appropriations bills 
come through the Senate.

Think about this: You have a grandchild sitting on your knee and you 
say: Yes, back in 2007, they had a party in Minneapolis and in Denver, 
and they charged it to you. You may get to go to college, you may not, 
but I just want you to know we had a good time at our conventions. How 
about $100 million for businesses that have under $15 million in 
revenue a year that have suffered some loss from a drought over the 
last 2 or 3 years. We already have several organizations within the 
Federal Government: Farm Service Agency, loan capabilities from the 
Department of Agriculture, the Small Business Administration. All are 
qualified to loan money to businesses that work in the agricultural 
area but, no, we set aside. We expanded the farm program with this bill 
to give $100 million to small businesses that have been hurt. If you 
are not connected to agriculture and you have been hurt, where is the 
bill to help you? Where does the precedent stop in terms of your small 
business?


What about the fact that gas prices rose and some auto dealers went 
out of business? Where is the $100 million for them? What about the 
fact that energy prices have gone up and small business profits all 
across the country have been severely damaged because if they are 
energy dependent, their costs have risen significantly? Where is the 
$100 million? Where does it stop? Where does it stop that we steal--
when do we stop stealing from our grandchildren?

There is also in this emergency provision $3.5 million for tours of 
the Capitol. An emergency, that we have to have the money now, 
otherwise we won't have tours in the Capitol? That isn't right, but 
that is what is in the bill: $3.5 million. Why? So we can have $3.5 
million more to play with when we get inside the budget now that we are 
outside the budget.

Oh, and I forgot to mention the fact the administration isn't 
innocent in this either, because the war in Iraq is hardly an 
emergency. As a matter of fact, it is in its fourth year. The 
administration should know what they need. Rather than send a 
supplemental up here, it should be in the Defense appropriations bill. 
It should have been in the bill we passed this last year. But instead, 
even the administration is complicit.



Who is going to stand and speak for the future against the processes 
the Congress uses today to fund and grow the Government, not worrying 
about how we pay for it in the future? Will you? Will you challenge 
this process? Will you say enough is enough? Will you do your part as a 
citizen of this country to make a difference, to hold people 
accountable here, rather than let the continued culture--and I call it 
a culture which actually the majority party ran on. It is a culture of 
corruption. When you do for you and steal from those who are weak and 
have no access or ability to pay it, that is corruption. It is morally 
corrupt. It is a process by which we undermine the very foundation upon 
which our country has become strong. If we continue it, what we will 
see is a weakened nation.

We now have $70 trillion of unfunded liabilities for Medicare, 
Medicaid, and Social Security. Think about that for a minute. Go figure 
out how many zeroes are associated with $1 trillion. If you had 
everyone who was worth more than $1 billion in the world sell all of 
their assets tomorrow and give every bit of that to the U.S. 
Government, it wouldn't even pay the interest for 1 year. How is it we 
can be going down this road? How is it we can be turning our backs on 
the principles that made us great as a nation--the idea of personal 
responsibility even applied to Senators, and accountability, and 
transparency. We are going to hear a lot of stories about what is and 
isn't happening with this bill over the next 3 or 4 days, but the 
question I hope the American people will ask themselves is where is the 
money coming from? Where is the money coming from? If it is not in a 
pot somewhere and if it is not saved, somebody is going to have to pay 
for it.

This money is coming from the big Visa card of the Federal 
Government. We are going to ''cha-ching'' and we are going to say: 
Grandchildren, you have to pay for this war in Iraq, plus another $19 
billion, because we don't have the courage to hold this Government 
accountable. We don't even have the courage to hold ourselves 
accountable. We don't have the courage to eliminate the duplication, 
the fraud, and the waste that accounts for over $200 billion every year 
in this $3 trillion budget. There is no courage here to face that. We 
can do oversight hearings, and we have done so. Senator Carper and 
myself did 46, more than any other committee of Congress, over the last 
2 years. What we found was almost $200 billion of either duplicative 
programs, wasteful programs, or outright fraud. Yet where is the 
Congress offsetting those with this bill? No. It is too hard work. You 
might offend somebody. The next election is more important than the 
next generation. Being here is more important than doing what is the 
best thing for our Nation.

So I hope as we approach this bill, the American public will ask that 
question about where the sacrifice comes from to do this. Where does 
the sacrifice come from? Unfortunately, it is going to come from the 
next 2 generations. It is hard to identify what that means, but with $9 
trillion of actual outstanding debt we have now and the $70 trillion of 
unfunded liability, it doesn't take a great imagination to understand 
how that might impact our children and grandchildren, with high 
interest rates, lack of ability to afford a college education, 
inability to own a home, buy a new car. All of those things are coming 
as we continue to steal the future from our children and our 
grandchildren. The big government credit card. It is only available 
because there is a lack of backbone and spine in the Congress to do 
what is necessary to give the American people true value from their 
Government. It is hard. A lot of people get upset. But I would much 
rather stand here and try to change it now than try to explain to my 
grandchildren why we didn't change it, why we didn't do that.

I have some hope the American people are starting to wake up to the 
budgetary gimmicks and processes the Congress uses. When they really 
awaken, what they are going to do is change who runs this place. It is 
going to be real citizen legislators. It is going to be people who care 
about the future more than they care about today. It is going to be 
people who care about a heritage that continues to be and create and 
hold forth the greatest experiment in freedom that has ever been. 
Without that change, as Will Durant said:




 Great societies are never conquered from without until they 


 rot from within.


This is part of the rotting process we are going to see over the next 
5 days in the Senate. If people summon courage, summon long-term 
viewpoint, summon sacrifice of giving up of themselves, whether it be 
position or power so we can create something better, the country will 
be all the better for that. If we don't, there won't be a headline that 
says: ''Grandchildren hurt by supplemental bill,'' but it doesn't mean 
they won't be. The fact is they will.

It is interesting the accounting that Washington uses. Last year the 
official number on the deficit was $175 billion, but the real number, 
the amount the debt went up, was $360 billion. If you are at home and 
you have a checkbook and you spend $175 more than you had in the 
checkbook, but at the end of the year you charged another $200 on top 
of it, you really spent it all, and you went into debt for that whole 
amount. But we don't do what national accounting standards say. We play 
a game. We take the Social Security money and we lessen the effect of 
what we are doing through Social Security and 30 some other trust funds 
such as the inland waterway trust fund and several others, and the 
retirement of the employees of the Federal Government that is not 
funded, and we add all that back and we make it look better than it is.

The idea behind a half lie is a whole truth, but it is not. A half 
truth is a whole lie.

So my hope is when we have this debate on this bill, this $121 
billion bill, America will say: Wait a minute. Why aren't you paying 
for it? Why aren't you trimming some of the fat? Why aren't you 
trimming some of the problems? Why aren't you doing that? Because it is 
hard. That is not a good enough reason to undermine the future of this 
country.

Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to come and speak this 
evening and the staff staying here.

Mr. President, I note the absence of a quorum.