---
---

# REMOVING THE AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS FROM TREATMENT AS A TERRORIST  ORGANIZATION
## `8b78f264412d31288fedbe7d3d699bf4`
`Mr. LEAHY — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am very pleased the Senate will pass this 
legislation to exempt the African National Congress from designation 
under the Immigration and Nationality Act as a ''terrorist'' 
organization.

The historic role that the African National Congress played in ending 
the era of Apartheid in South Africa is well known, and I suspect that 
its designation as a terrorist organization is a surprise to many 
Americans. That the organization Nelson Mandela helped create to fight 
against an official policy of racism is deemed a terrorist organization 
is wrong and should be corrected.

I commend Senator Kerry and Congressman Berman for their attention to 
this issue, and the Members of the Judiciary Committee--Senators Biden, 
Schumer, Whitehouse, Feingold, and Cardin--who have lent their support 
to this effort.

The overly broad laws Congress passed in haste after September 11, 
2001, continue to unnecessarily bar legitimate asylum seekers from the 
sanctuary of the United States. I worked to ensure that the 
administration has the authority to waive these laws for organizations 
and individuals, but the administration has been unwilling to exercise 
this authority of its own accord.

Secretary Rice quite rightly pointed out that her government 
counterpart in South Africa must apply for a waiver of the material 
support bar in order to enter the United States for an official visit, 
and that it is an embarrassment. I would hope and expect that this 
embarrassment is no less acute when victims of violent conflicts are 
denied asylum in the United States because of these same laws.

The Judiciary Committee's recent oversight hearing with Secretary 
Chertoff was an example of an administration that will only make the 
tough, but correct decisions when the scrutiny or public embarrassment 
becomes too much. At this hearing, Secretary Chertoff announced that 
the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) reversed its position on a 
green card denial for an Iraqi who had been admitted into the United 
States on a special visa from Iraq. Salam Kareem Ahmad entered the 
United States after working as a translator for U.S. Marines in Iraq, 
and after receiving commendation from General Petraeus, only to be 
denied a green card by the administration.

Despite all of the administration's rhetoric about its commitment to 
freedom and democracy, DHS determined that Mr. Ahmad's involvement with 
an anti-Saddam Hussein group, the Kurdish Democratic Party, amounted to 
involvement with a terrorist organization. It should not take political 
pressure and media scrutiny to do the right thing. But in light of the 
administration's inattention to resolving injustices created by the 
material support bars, Congress is once again compelled to do what the 
administration can and should be doing on its own.

There is much work to be done by Congress and the next administration 
to fully resolve the terrible consequences these laws have brought 
about. I intend to continue working toward ensuring that our 
immigration and asylum laws are not used in a manner to harm those who 
come to the United States seeking its refuge and assistance. Our 
policies concerning asylum seekers have demonstrated America's 
commitment to human rights. The material support and terrorism bars 
that have prevented so many from our protection are a blemish on this 
legacy.