# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `8b788ca50d1be9ff0ef81f6e1607729d`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 10 July 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished chairman and 
ranking member. Thank you very much, Mr. Edwards, for the grand work 
that you have done over the years in helping our soldiers. I rise today 
to support the underlying bill but to particularly focus on the medical 
services, the $34.7 billion; the mental health services, $4.6 billion; 
and the assistance for homeless vets, $3.2 billion. In my congressional 
district I work with these populations in particular, visiting them, 
listening to their situations; and as well, in my own community we have 
had a high number of suicides among active duty soldiers. I am very 
glad to announce that because of the legislation of this particular 
appropriation and the leadership of Chairman Edwards, we are now 
looking forward to having an offsite opportunity for a PTS treatment 
center; and as well it will be able to secure funding in the future for 
prospective TRICARE recipients. I am proud to have worked with 
Riverside Hospital. We need to be able to provide more services for 
PTSD, for the soldiers that are coming home. Believe it or not, Houston 
has been cited as the city that has the largest number of returnees or 
active duty soldiers who have been in Iraq and now, subsequently, will 
be coming from Afghanistan. Today as I speak, Madam Chair, we are 
burying a young seaman in my district. It is tragic, but we realize 
that we have to provide for these soldiers. I am very glad to support 
the rule and the underlying bill.