---
---

# None
## `8b9e97c6ccf145074f5a309cc9aefe4a`
`Mr. BUYER — 24 May 2010`

---


Mr. BUYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise in support of H.R. 1017, as amended, the Chiropractic Care 
Available to All Veterans Act, to amend the Department of Veterans 
Affairs Health Care Programs Enhancement Act of 2001 and title 38 
United States Code to require the provision of chiropractic care and 
services to veterans at all Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
centers and to expand such care and services.

Musculoskeletal injuries cause problems not only for veterans of past 
conflicts, but are also one of the leading health concerns for veterans 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. This committee has a long history 
of taking action to ensure that the VA provides quality and accessible 
chiropractic care, and I would like to thank the chairman for 
introducing legislation once again.

I also want to thank my good friend and colleague from Kansas, Jerry 
Moran, for his strong advocacy of the need to provide quality 
chiropractic care within the VA. It was legislation that Jerry Moran 
introduced in the 108th Congress that initially provided the VA with 
the authority to hire and employ chiropractors.

The VA provides chiropractic care at 32 VA medical centers using 
hired or contracted staff. Chiropractic services are also available to 
veterans who live in areas distant from facilities through its fee 
basis program, which uses local non-VA providers.

Given the prevalence of back, neck, and joint pain in the veteran 
population, there is a need to expand access to chiropractic care 
within the VA medical facilities. This bill would do that by mandating 
such care at 75 VA medical centers by the end of next year and at each 
VA medical center by the end of 2013. However, I want to point out that 
it is also important that the VA continues to ensure chiropractic care 
remains available as an option through the VA's fee basis program.

Oftentimes, the fee basis program is needed or would benefit the 
health status of an eligible veteran. For instance, multiple treatments 
with some frequency may be required to receive the full benefits of 
chiropractic care. If a veteran lives some distance from a VA medical 
center requiring that veteran to make multiple trips, it creates an 
undue travel burden. In such cases, the use of the VA's fee basis 
program is in the best interest of the veteran. Therefore, it must 
always remain a mechanism for accessing care to ensure system-wide 
availability regardless of whether a VA medical center has a 
chiropractor on staff.

As always, I believe it is our duty to do all we can to help our 
veteran warriors heal from the injuries incurred through service to our 
Nation. Providing them with readily-accessible, widely-available, and 
highly skilled chiropractic care I believe will go a long way towards 
increasing the health and well-being of our veteran population. As 
such, I encourage all my colleagues to join with me in supporting H.R. 
1017, as amended.

I would also like to extend special recognition to Chairman Michaud 
and Ranking Member Brown of the Health Subcommittee for their work on 
this bill and that of the staff.

