---
---

# RECOGNIZING COL MARCUS LUNDY POWELL, JR.
## `8ba4226b76654277ff24919a0cc44dce`
`Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. WITTMAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
Col. Marcus Lundy Powell, Jr. who was born in Mecklenberg County, VA, 
and will turn 90 years old on October 9, 2008. Mr. Powell graduated 
from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, which today is known as 
Virginia Tech, in 1939. Upon his graduation he was commissioned a 2nd 
lieutenant in the U.S. Army and was assigned to the 8th Infantry 
Regiment, 4th Infantry Division, under Col. James Van Fleet.

Just five years later at the age of 25 he was a company commander who 
lead troops in the first wave onto Utah Beach at Normandy, on D-Day; 
June 6, 1944. Mr. Powell would go onto to tirelessly serve on the front 
lines of many of the most hard-fought battles in the European Theater 
including the Battle of Huertgen Forest. He also served on the first 
day of the Battle of the Bulge.

Following the close of the Second World War Mr. Powell would be 
stationed as an Aide-de-camp to Gen. James Van Fleet from 1946-48 in 
Athens, Greece, during the Greek War. From 1955-57 he served as Deputy


Chief of the Military Assistance Advisory Group in Baghdad, Iraq. Mr. 
Powell would again bravely wear the uniform of the U.S. Army overseas 
as a troop Commander in Korea from 1962-63 and as the Deputy Director 
of Headquarters in Vietnam from 1966-67. Finally, Mr. Powell was 
transferred to the Continental Army Command at Ft. Monroe, VA, from 
1967-72 as the Director of Reserve Components.

Mr. Powell is the proud father of four children, three grandchildren, 
and five great-grandchildren. Col. Powell has retired to Oxford, NC, 
where, weather permitting, he plays golf once or twice a week, plays 
bridge, works in his garden, makes wonderful cherry preserves and 
remains an active member of the local Lions Club. Ever the optimist, in 
March of this year he married a wonderful woman.

Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join me in commending Col. Marcus 
Lundy Powell, Jr. upon his 90th birthday and for his honorable 
accomplishments with the U.S. Army in defense and service to our 
Nation.
