# INCREASING THE STATUTORY LIMIT ON THE PUBLIC DEBT
## `8bb5b69ecaf20d0df451d1157ff4e1c3`
`Mr. REID â€” 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, before I discuss this legislation, I want to 
express my thanks to the distinguished minority leader, Senator 
McConnell, as well as the chairman and ranking member of the Finance 
Committee, Senators Baucus and Grassley, for their cooperation in 
facilitating consideration of this legislation. I also want to thank 
Treasury Secretary Paulson for his leadership.

We are taking up this legislation at the request of the Bush 
administration so that the Federal Government can meet its obligations 
and pay its bills. Secretary Paulson, in a letter to me earlier this 
month, indicated that it was essential that the Senate pass this 
legislation as soon as possible. This will be the fifth increase in the 
debt limit since President Bush came to office.

I find it distasteful and disturbing to increase the debt limit yet 
again, but the alternative is simply unthinkable. Eventually, some 
Social Security checks could not be sent. Government offices could 
close. Interest rates could rise. And the economic impact on our


country could be profound. As a practical matter, therefore, we have no 
choice.

Having said that, President Bush's failed policies put us in this 
box, and as we consider the pending bill, I hope my colleagues will 
focus on the importance of changing those policies. Over the past 
several years, the administration has completely abandoned fiscal 
discipline and dramatically increased our debt. Until we change the 
policies that led down this path, we will be back year after year, 
digging the hole ever deeper.

Let's review some history. When President Bush came to office, our 
Nation was running record budget surpluses and our debt was on the 
decline. In 2000, we ran a surplus of $236 billion, and the outlook was 
for continued surpluses for years to come. In fact, the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve at the time, Alan Greenspan, was so optimistic about 
our fiscal condition that he thought we might quickly eliminate our 
debt altogether.

Unfortunately, once President Bush took office, our fiscal situation 
rapidly collapsed. In 2001, our debt was $5.8 trillion. Today, it's $9 
trillion, an increase of more than $3 trillion. Compounding matters, 
all this new borrowing has come at the worst possible time, just as the 
baby boom generation is about to retire.

Not only has our debt exploded, but increasingly we are borrowing 
from foreigners. In fact, since President Bush took office, our debt to 
foreigners has more than doubled. Many of our creditors are in places 
like China and Japan. And as we borrow more and more from those abroad, 
we also become more dependent on them. It is a trend that cannot and 
must not be allowed to continue.

It's no mystery why debt has exploded. President Bush abandoned the 
pay-as-you-go rules that proved so effective in promoting fiscal 
discipline. He increased spending by 50 percent. And he approved 
massive tax breaks, disproportionately for multimillionaires and 
special interests.

Much of the spending has been for our disastrous occupation of Iraq. 
The war has already cost the lives of almost 4,000 Americans. But while 
our brave men and women in uniform bear, by far, the greatest burden, 
all American taxpayers are paying a price. We have already spent 
roughly half a trillion dollars on President Bush's failed policy. Now 
the President is asking for nearly $200 billion more.

How does the President propose to pay for all this new spending in 
Iraq? He doesn't. He just wants to keep putting it on the national 
credit card.

The same is true of the President's massive tax breaks for 
multimillionaires. Next year, President Bush wants to spend nearly $50 
billion just to hand out tax breaks for those fortunate enough to earn 
more than $1 million a year. These lucky few will get a windfall worth 
an average of $130,000 each. Most hard-working, middle-class families 
would be grateful for a fraction of that.


And how will we finance all these lavish tax breaks for 
multimillionaires? Again, by putting them on the national credit card. 
In other words, our children will pay.

If only the President were as willing to provide kids with health 
care as he is willing to load them with debt.

As you know, the administration claims to have seen the light on 
fiscal responsibility, and has cited the need for discipline to justify 
their opposition to the children's health bill. But how much would the 
legislation add to the debt? $200 billion? $20 billion? No. The answer 
is: zero. Nothing. It is fully paid for.

In other words, the President is willing to borrow half a trillion 
dollars and more for Iraq. But he is opposing a children's health bill 
that won't add anything to the debt.

To put it mildly, those priorities are wrong. The American people 
know it. And most of my colleagues do, as well.

Clearly, we need to change course. And this debt limit bill is just 
another reminder of that.

Fortunately, the new Congress already has made real progress in the 
effort to provide a new direction. Earlier this year, we passed a 
budget resolution that balanced the budget without raising a penny of 
taxes. The budget put the middle class first and focused on America's 
needs here at home. All in a responsible way, while reestablishing 
strong pay-as-you-go rules to enforce fiscal discipline.

Our new budget was an important first step. But we have a long way to 
go to change fiscal policy to where it needs to be. Ultimately, it is 
going to take bipartisan effort, and I look forward to working with 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make it happen. Meanwhile, 
while it is not a pleasant task, we have no choice but to pay our 
bills.