# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `8bb81b4697924df7c2e783d9f0c0c745`
`Mr. SHAYS â€” 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

We went into Iraq on a bipartisan basis, two-thirds of the House and 
three-quarters of the Senate, and we need to leave on a bipartisan 
basis enabling the Iraqis to stand on their own. And what I feel in 
these two resolutions and legislation that we are passing is, it is 
still Democrats basically saying this is the way we are going to 
structure the debate. This is the way we are going to do it. Take it or 
leave it. So we end up with this bifurcated piece of legislation that, 
frankly, I don't think does justice to the process. And I want to be on 
record on that.

I also want to say to my colleague on the other side of the aisle you 
say, ''I predicted and I have been right 100 percent of the time,'' you 
know what? That is debatable. Frankly, it is very debatable. And when 
you talk about there are incidences here, and there will be incidences 
there, if that is how we are going to judge this war, then we might as 
well leave now. But why don't we judge it on economic, political, and 
military efforts, not on incidences? Why not judge it on the fact that 
in December we gave up on Anbar Province and now we are winning Anbar? 
And it is clearly one of the most important provinces. It is totally 
Sunni. It connects Syria to Baghdad.



This is the route to which insurgents have been coming from Syria. 
They follow the river, and now we have tribes all along the way, Sunni 
tribes, not Shia tribes, Sunni tribes that are saying, hey, who are 
you? What are you doing here? And they are calling a stop to it. And 
they are saying to us every time we meet with them ''Do not leave us. 
You came here unwelcomed, but now do not leave us until you help us 
stand on our own.''

And I fear, Mr. Murtha, that what we are going to do if your 
predictions are right, and it is almost like you want to be right 
instead of want to be wrong, if your predictions are right, and we will 
leave too soon because of incidences, then we will have only ourselves 
to be shameful of, not that we went in there, but because we deserted 
them before we gave them a chance.

The political process, it is moving forward. Is it doing as well as I 
would like? Some have described it to me this way: It is like a sixth-
grade dance. You had Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds, and they were all there, 
but nobody danced. And now they are starting to interact with each 
other. Now Sunnis and Shias and Kurds are saying to us collectively, 
Please give us more time to work out our differences. It is not Shias 
saying the Sunnis are doing this or the Sunnis saying the Shias are 
doing this. Collectively they are saying, give us more time.

I think, they are at a point where if we give them time, you will 
see, Mr. Murtha, that your predictions will be wrong. But if you don't 
give them enough time, it is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Your 
predictions will be right because you didn't give them a chance.

Let me conclude by saying we attacked them; they didn't attack us. 
And I believe we have an absolute moral obligation to replace their 
army, to replace their police, to replace their border patrol. I think 
we have a moral obligation to give this political process a chance.