---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8bbc94ca917d67534ee6e18db1da191d`
`Mr. GALLEGLY — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. GALLEGLY. I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, my concern about the Iraq resolution offered by my 
friends on the other side of the aisle is what impact it will have on 
our troops and our mission and its consequences on our mission. How can 
you say support our troops when you don't support sending in the people 
necessary to back them up to do the job that we sent them there to do 
to start with?

Let's be clear, Mr. Speaker, about who the real enemy is. We are at 
war with the Islamic jihadists. Jihadists have vowed to destroy 
America, the West and all sympathizers with democracy. We are at war 
for our very existence against jihadists who have vowed to enslave us 
with a fundamentalist philosophy that rejects all human rights.

The consequences of failure in Iraq are not just failure in Iraq. 
Iraq's stability has direct repercussions on Iran, Saudi Arabia, Israel 
and all of the Middle East. If our efforts to bring peace and stability 
to Iraq are successful, we will accomplish a great deal. If not, if 
Iraq fails, it will provide Islamic jihadists with a sanctuary similar 
to the one we removed from Afghanistan, only the sanctuary in Iraq 
would be many times worse, as the terrorists would have access to 
billions of dollars of oil resources to carry out their evil plans. 
Such a sanctuary would threaten Europe and the United States.

If we are in support of our military men and women, we must support 
their mission against Islamic jihadists. The alternative is defeat in 
Iraq and a greater threat of attack here at home.

A defeat in Iraq would not just be a defeat for the United States. It 
would also set back any chance for peace and stability in the Middle 
East. It would empower terrorists to unleash greater sectarian 
violence, which would draw all of Iraq's neighbors into a Sunni versus 
Shi'a conflict for control of Iraq.

I am also concerned about the resolution because it does not offer 
any alternative whatsoever that could lead to a successful outcome for 
the United States in Iraq. All the resolution does is to criticize the 
President's plan to augment our existing force in Iraq by 21,000-plus 
troops.

The Democratic resolution offers no other plan. It does not address 
what should be the right strategy or the right tactics. In effect, and 
I think this is the real issue, it endorses the status quo in Iraq, a 
position that I certainly can't support, and I hear lots of those that 
are supporting this say they can't support either, but they are de 
facto supporting the status quo by supporting this resolution.

I look forward to the majority offering a comprehensive proposal that 
would set forth a specific course of action. Then we could have a real 
debate on the pros and cons of the Democratic plan versus the 
President's plan to secure Iraq and defeat the terrorists in that 
country. Unfortunately, the resolution before us fails to do this, and 
therefore I can't support it. It should be rejected.