---
---

# RECOGNITION OF CHARLES RUSSELL FOR HIS BRAVERY AND SERVICE IN IRAQ
## `8bc85973fc7fd68bd0bfb2bb2410fc34`
`Ms. KILROY — 14 September 2010`

---


Ms. KILROY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Charles Russell for 
his inspiring work to help rebuild the Iraqi agricultural sector. As a 
civilian volunteer, Mr. Russell not only helped those directly affected 
by his service, but also contributed to the overall rebuilding of the 
Iraqi community.

Along with our men and women in uniform, volunteers such as Charles 
Russell are an integral part of our mission in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Born in Boston, Massachusetts, Mr. Russell grew up in Cleveland, Ohio 
and became an agricultural statistician and expert in the United States 
Department of Agriculture's National Agricultural Statistics Service in 
Reynoldsburg, Ohio.

Selflessly leaving his family and home, Mr. Russell volunteered to 
serve 16 months helping people he had never met. Mr. Russell served as 
a USDA Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT) agricultural expert on both 
the embedded PRT-Baghdad 4 and the embedded PRT-Baghdad South in 
Baghdad Province. He was one of the only civilians in these groups.

Mr. Russell tirelessly worked to create the Mahmudiyah Higher 
Agricultural Association (MHAA), a non-governmental organization 
dedicated to helping Iraqi farmers get access to new technologies, 
equipment, and low-cost credit. Additionally, Mr. Russell helped the 
Iraqi people strengthen their communities, improve management of 
natural resources, and rebuild agricultural markets. For his work he 
received the U.S. Department of State's meritorious honor award for his 
sustained, dedicated, and successful efforts. As John D. Brewer, the 
Foreign Agricultural Service administrator, said, ''the efforts of 
people like Charles are crucial for helping to create stable, 
democratic, and economically viable societies in countries like Iraq.''

I commend Mr. Russell for his undeniable dedication, outstanding 
personal character, and unwavering commitment to those less fortunate 
than himself. On September 8, 2010, the United States Department of 
Agriculture honored Mr. Russell at its Service Recognition Ceremony for 
USDA employees that have completed deployments in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
I am proud to recognize and honor Charles Russell for his efforts and 
patriotism.
