---
---

# None
## `8bda2684b8e8a824d44fb276699e41d2`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. I can tell you, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz, 
it was definitely a pleasure hearing you speak as we were talking 
before in the cloakroom, in the back here, Mr. Speaker, we were talking 
about what happened here on this floor less than 2 hours ago. A major 
vote that took place here in this House. And it didn't pass by one or 
two votes. It only takes one vote to win as it relates to a bill or 
what have you, a resolution moving through the floor here. I just want 
to say that I am proud of the Members that voted in the affirmative for 
this bill. The emergency supplemental funding bill has started a new 
era as it relates to how Americans think about the war in Iraq, how our 
troops are being treated in Iraq and Afghanistan and even here back at 
home on health care services. And also it gave voice to those 
individuals that went to the voting booth looking for representation, 
looking for a new direction, looking for the Congress to carry out the 
kind of oversight that we should carry out as Members of Congress on 
behalf of any action that will involve the American taxpayer and in 
many cases involve foreign nations loaning money to the United States 
of America. We have to pay all of that back. We have to be accountable 
to the U.S. taxpayer. And we have to make sure that we provide the 
oversight for the American people.

Now, I heard Ms. Wasserman Schultz speak to the point. As some 
members came to the floor to vote against the bill, some voted against 
the bill because that's just what they do. They vote against war. They 
vote against whatever their philosophy may be as it relates to war, but 
also you had people that voted for the bill that is against war, that 
want to see an end to war. No other emergency supplemental up until the 
one that came before this House today actually put forth benchmarks for 
the Iraqi government to meet, actually hold the feet to the fire of the 
executive branch saying that if you are going to send additional 
troops, then the parameters that you put on the Iraqi government will 
actually be enforced. Department of Defense regulations as it relates 
to how troops can be deployed and the readiness of our troops before 
they go into theater. They wrote that in the Department of Defense, the 
administrator, bureaucrats, Secretary, what have you, in the Bush 
administration wrote those regulations. We put it inside this piece of 
legislation and enforced it. And also we made sure that Members had the 
opportunity to show their constituents where they stand.

Now, let's talk a little bit about that, because I heard the 
gentlewoman from Florida mention something, folks coming to the floor, 
saying things like, ''never before in the history of the country that 
we've ever voted to micromanage.'' They would use words like 
''micromanage.'' ''We've never come to the floor to limit anything as 
it relates to war.''

And when will we have a victory?

And that has never, ever, ever happened.



You know, I am in my office, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and I am watching 
these Members on the floor, and I spoke to this point last night, 
because last night I was here after 10, 10:30, I actually closed the 
House last night, moved to adjourn the House last night, and I couldn't 
help but try to get the evidence to show that it has happened.

As a matter of fact, timelines have been set by some of the very 
Republican leaders that are now in the Republican leadership right now 
that came to this well here today and had issue with what the majority 
of the Members of the House wanted to do and ultimately did in the 
vote.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to make sure, because this is what this 
whole 30-Something Working Group is about, making sure that we shed 
light where it needs to be. Let's look at this.

Bosnia, June 24, 1997, the House brought to the floor an amendment 
that would set a timeline and a date certain for withdrawal of U.S. 
peacekeepers from the mission in Bosnia. Pay attention to these dates.

On December 13, 1995, an attempt to prohibit funds from being used 
for the deployment of ground troops in Bosnia. It actually failed 210-
218, which I have the names of those individuals that are in the 
Republican leadership now that voted in the affirmative to try to stop 
that from happening.

December 13, 1995, a resolution passed expressing serious concerns in 
opposition to the deployment of troops in Bosnia, where ethnic 
cleansing was taking place. Some of our same Members in the Republican 
leadership voted to pass that piece of legislation.

Again, June, there was also another vote that was taken on June 24, 
1997, voted to set a timeline, date certain for withdrawal of troops 
from Bosnia, and that passed 278-148. The date certain that troops had 
to leave was June 30, 1998.

I am going to say it again. Some of the same individuals that voted 
today against, their reason for voting against


this emergency supplemental for the men and women in harm's way and the 
veterans to be able to receive the kind of healthcare they deserve, 
voted for a timeline in Bosnia.

Let's talk about the comparisons here. The Bosnia conflict was 18 
months, Mr. Speaker. This conflict is 48-plus months, moving well into 
its fifth year. The cost of Bosnia to the United States of America, $7 
billion. The cost of the war in Iraq, $379 billion and counting, well 
beyond $379 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars and loan money.

Casualties in Bosnia, casualties in Bosnia, I repeat, zero of U.S. 
troops. Zero. Casualties as of 10 a.m. today in Iraq of U.S. personnel, 
troops, men and women in uniform, 3,229. I would even go further to say 
13,415 wounded in action and have returned to duty. I would even go 
further by saying 10,772 wounded in action who cannot return back to 
duty.

I think it is important that we look at the facts. Again, I want to 
say we didn't come down here to play around, we came down here to share 
the facts, because we are both very busy people and we have things to 
do and this is the end of the workweek and Members are heading back to 
their districts. We want to go back to our districts too. But we want 
to make sure this moment of leadership, this moment of courage, is in 
the Congressional Record, to let it be known that we did have Members 
that stood up on behalf of our men and women in uniform and we had the 
men and women of this House that were in the majority that were willing 
to put their name and their vote on the line on behalf of the men and 
women that serve our country and their families.

I have the vote sheet here from the Bosnia vote. Every Republican 
voted yes for the timeline, with the exception of two. It is right 
here. Any Member that wants to run down to the floor and take a look at 
that, they can.

Also we have here the vote as it relates to passing the resolution 
that we had today, which is the emergency supplemental, roll call vote 
186. I can say for the two Republicans who voted in opposite of the 
Republican leadership, when we took the vote on June 24, 1997, were 
consistent today of the only two Republicans that voted in the 
affirmative with the majority of the House to make sure that we place 
benchmarks and a timeline in Iraq. Consistency for those two Members, 
that anyone can find in the Congressional Record, and we commend them 
for their consistency.

So I think it is important, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, that we look at 
the hard facts here and the tough votes that need to be taken. Does 
everyone agree with what is in the emergency supplemental? I don't 
agree with everything that is in the emergency supplemental. But for 
the greater good of the men and women in harm's way, I voted for it.

There are Members in here who had a rough time and it was also very 
tough vote for them. But they didn't want to continue to look in the 
eyes of their constituents as they go to high school programs and 
junior high school programs and they are asked a question, as I am 
asked a question, and I don't ask folks for their voter registration, I 
don't ask, well, are you a constituent of mine or not?

The prevailing question is, Congressman, how long are we going to be 
in Iraq? I can't answer the question, because the President says we are 
going to be there as long as we need to be there. And, guess what? 
Those very same individuals, Democrat, Republican, independent, some 
individuals never voted before in their lives, went last November and 
voted for a new direction, voted for leadership, voted for an 
opportunity to have this Congress stand in the position that it should 
be standing, and that is oversight and accountability on behalf of the 
men and women that are in harm's way.

So I feel that the Members that voted in the affirmative, voted for 
outstanding healthcare, moving in the direction of outstanding 
healthcare for our veterans, making sure that our men and women when 
they are deployed, some of them are deployed 120 days after they return 
back to their family because some bureaucrat in the Defense Department 
says, well, we got to make sure we keep our rotation and our troop 
numbers, levels, up to over 143,000 troops on the ground. I know this 
brigade has only been home for a couple of months, three months, we 
have to get them back in the fight, when the Department of Defense 
regulations rule against that.

But I must add, Mr. Speaker, to make sure since we are having a 
moment of clarity, in this bill it allows the President, if it is 
within the national security interests that these troops go back into 
theater, he has the ability to do that, but report to Congress on that 
action.

So anyone that says we are binding the President, we are endangering 
the troops, the general can't do what he wants to do, that has nothing 
to do with it. That is nothing but rhetoric. That is nothing but good 
talking points for a crowd that you may want to get a cheer out of 
based on where you are.

But the reality and the hard-core facts are we have been sent up here 
to legislate and to bring about oversight, and that the President of 
the United States is not the only person that can make decisions on 
accountability and oversight. It is the U.S. Congress constitutionally 
and also it is our duty.

We are not in the forward area. We don't wear a uniform. But we have 
been sent here to make sure things go the way they are supposed to go 
on behalf of the men and women in harm's way.