---
---

# VETERANS BILLS
## `8bf64133e506cc8ac850ebdcb03f85ca`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota — 23 May 2008`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, next Monday our Nation 
celebrates Memorial Day. This holiday commemorates those members of the 
Armed Services that have died while serving our country. There is no 
better way to honor those fallen soldiers


than to take care of the veterans of today. The 110th Congress has made 
the needs of veterans a priority and I rise in support of several 
pieces of veterans legislation that passed the House of Representatives 
on May 20, 2008.

Too many veterans and their families suffer economically as a result 
of injury or disability that occurred during service. The Veterans Cost 
of Living Adjustment Act (H.R. 5826) ensures that veterans disability 
payments and dependency and indemnity compensation for veterans' 
families keep up with inflation.

Those soldiers that are injured during war deserve affordable and 
quality medical treatment when they return home. The Veterans Emergency 
Care Fairness Act (H.R. 3819) allows veterans to be reimbursed for 
receiving emergency treatment in non-Department of Veterans Affairs 
facilities. Also, the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Authorization and Lease Act (H.R. 5856) authorizes vital improvement 
and expansions to VA hospitals and clinics around the country.

According to the 2007 National Survey on Drug Use and Health, 
approximately 1.9 million veterans suffer from diagnosable substance 
abuse. The Veterans Substance Use Disorders Prevention and Treatment 
Act (H.R. 5554) funds drug screening, detoxification, relapse 
prevention and counseling for veterans. It also creates an online pilot 
program that provides treatment to Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans 
for substance abuse.

Finally, the Veterans Benefits Awareness Act (H.R. 3681) helps 
veterans and their families learn about available government services. 
The VA will now be able to advertise in the national media in order to 
reach out to more veterans about homeless assistance, healthcare 
benefits, mental health services, educational and vocational 
opportunities, and other benefits.

I want to thank Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Filner, and my colleagues 
for passing these important and vital bills to help veterans and their 
families.
