---
---

# None
## `8bfaa29ee6953249f6832dda03f148f1`
`Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland — 8 May 2008`

---


Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, several days ago I came into 
the office early and I found at my door the usual package of newspapers 
and I opened them up and was placing them out on the table, and I 
noticed the headlines. And this is every paper that was at my door that 
morning. There were four newspapers and there were three inside-the-
Beltway newspapers intended primarily for those interested in the 
Congress. I want to go through the headlines in every one of those 
papers.

Here is the Baltimore Sun, and they had two headlines above the fold 
both related to energy, ''Demand Eats Supply,'' and ''Energy Bill Aids 
Payouts on Rise.''

Then I went to the Washington Times and there was a headline, ''Bush 
Lays Gas Blame on Congress.''

And then I went to the Wall Street Journal and the Wall Street 
Journal headline was ''Grain Companies' Profits Soar as Global Food 
Crisis Mounts.''

Then I turned to the U.S. News part of the Wall Street Journal and 
what do you know, above the fold there were two more headlines, ''Bush 
Prods Lawmakers on Economy and Energy Prices,'' and ''GOP Senators Urge 
Halt to Oil Reserve.''

Then I noted the three papers that are kind of inside the Beltway 
papers: Roll Call, ''Alexander Eyes Energy Agenda''; The Hill, 
''Politics At the Pump''; and Politico had ''Gas Prices Fuel Effort to 
Jam the GOP.''

So every one of these seven papers that were on my doorstep that 
morning had headlines talking about energy. Now I noted just a few days 
before that


there was a New York Times op-ed piece by Thomas Friedman. This is what 
he says about energy. Here is what is scary. Our problem is so much 
worse than you think. We have no energy strategy. If you are going to 
use tax policy to shape energy strategy, then you want to raise taxes 
on the things that you want to discourage--gasoline consumption and 
gas-guzzling cars--and you want to lower taxes on the things you want 
to encourage--new renewable energy technologies. We are doing just the 
opposite, he says.

The gas holiday proposal is a perfect example of what energy expert 
Peter Schwartz of Global Business Network describes as the true 
American energy policy today, and I quote, ''Maximize demand, minimize 
supply, and buy the rest from the people who hate us most.''

This is not an energy policy. This is money laundering, he says. We 
borrow money from China and ship it to Saudi Arabia and take a little 
cut for ourselves as it goes through our gas tanks. No, no, no, we will 
just get the money by taxing Big Oil. Even if you could do that, what a 
terrible way to spend precious tax dollars, he says.

For almost a year now, Congress has been bickering over whether and 
how to renew the investment tax credit to stimulate investment in solar 
energy and the production of tax credit to encourage investment in wind 
energy. And a little later I will go over this bill that has already 
passed the Senate, and we have introduced it in the House now.

The Democrats wanted the wind and solar credits to be paid for by 
taking away tax credits from the oil industry. President Bush said he 
would veto that. Neither side would back down. Stalemate, he says.

I first came to this floor to talk about this subject more than 3 
years ago. It was, I believe, the 14th day of March in 2005. I noted 
then that we have known, we had known at that time for 25 years that we 
would be facing this crisis. Now it is 28 years. We have known for 28 
years that we would be facing this crisis. I will present the evidence 
for that in just a moment, and I think the evidence is absolutely 
unassailable. Anybody who looked at the evidence would have to conclude 
that there was a reasonable, indeed probably a high probability that we 
would be here today with oil at over $100 a barrel.

This all started in 1956 on March 8 when an oil geologist from the 
Shell Oil Company gave a speech that I think may shortly be recognized 
as the most important speech given in the last century. He gave that 
speech in San Antonio, Texas, to an audience of people interested in 
oil. What he told them was at that time absolutely audacious and 
incredible. He told them in just 14 years the United States is going to 
reach its maximum oil production and no matter what you do, after that 
the production of oil will decrease year by year.

At that time the United States was the largest producer of oil in the 
world, the largest consumer of oil in the world, and I think the 
largest exporter of oil in the world. So this was absolutely audacious 
to suggest that the king of oil in just 14 short years would reach its 
maximum ability to produce oil.

He was a pariah for a number of years, and then in 1970, when right 
on schedule as this chart shows, when right on schedule the United 
States reached its maximum oil production, he became a legend in his 
own time. He made his prediction in 1956. You see how much oil we were 
producing then. In 1970 we were producing a lot more oil. And right on 
schedule, just as he predicted, the United States after that produced 
less and less oil each year, in spite of several things, Mr. Speaker. 
In spite of finding a lot of oil in Alaska. And notice just a little 
blip down the slide of what is called Hubbert's peak as a result of 
this enormous find in Alaska. I have been to Prudhoe Bay, a 4-foot 
pipeline through which for a number of years a full 25 percent of all 
our domestic production flowed. And then a big find some years later in 
the Gulf of Mexico. I remember the hype over that find. You see the 
yellow there, just a blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's 
peak.

So not only did we find a lot of oil that M. King Hubbert had not 
included in his prediction, his prediction included only the lower 48 
States, in spite of this large find of oil in Alaska and the large find 
of oil in the Gulf of Mexico, and in spite of increasing amounts of 
natural gas liquids, we today produce about half of the oil that we did 
in 1970.

Another thing that we have done, we have drilled more oil wells than 
all of the rest of the world put together. In spite of doing that, in 
spite of ever-better techniques for finding oil, computer modeling and 
3-D seismic, in spite of ever-better techniques for getting the oil, 
enhanced oil recovery, nothing we have done has proved M. King Hubbert 
a liar. He said we would peak in oil production in 1970, and we did. 
And we have been sliding down the other side of Hubbert's peak ever 
since.

In 1979 he predicted using the same analytical techniques which 
aren't all that hard to understand. He noted that in an individual oil 
field, that the production of the field increased and increased and 
increased until it reached a maximum which was when about half the oil 
was exhausted. After that, the last half which reasonably would be more 
difficult to get, was more difficult to get and production was slower. 
And so he rationalized that if he could add up all of the little oil 
fields in the United States and make a good prediction as to how many 
more we would find, he could have one big bell curve which is basically 
the shape of that curve, and he could then predict when the United 
States would reach its maximum oil production. He was right on target.

Using that same technique, he predicted that the world would be 
peaking in oil production about now. Now I say that we have known this 
for 28 years. I say that because by 1980 it was very obvious that M. 
King Hubbert was right about the United States. We were already well 
over the peak and sliding down the other side of what is called 
Hubbert's peak. What did we do? We have done as a world, as a country, 
absolutely nothing to prepare for the inevitability that M. King 
Hubbert would probably be right about the world because he was right 
about the United States.

Now as the next chart shows, the two entities which track oil 
production and consumption, and it is essentially the same thing, very 
little oil is stored in the world compared to the amount that we use, 
that is the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of our 
Department of Defense, and the IEA, the International Energy 
Association, both of those track very well the production of oil. And 
you can see they have the production of oil about flat for the last 3 
years.

Now when I first came here, and I think that was 43 times ago, I 
think this is the 44th time I have been to the floor, when I was here 
in 2005, oil was about $50 a barrel, a little over $50 a barrel. Using 
the predictions of M. King Hubbert, I with some confidence have been 
saying now for these 43 times, 44 times including tonight, that we were 
going to get here, that the world was going to reach maximum oil 
production.



And we ought to have been preparing for this. And since we hadn't 
been preparing in the past, we ought to start preparing for this with 
some realistic measures.

Notice what happened to the price of oil. Of course, when you have a 
static production and an increasing demand, the supply/demand mechanism 
which controls the pricing of almost everything in our world, caused an 
increase in the price of oil. Now, it would be well off the top of our 
chart here. We're now at $123, $124 a barrel. That's well off the top 
of the chart here. As far as I know, these lines are extending out 
flat. There is no increase in oil production.

The next chart, this chart shows the discoveries of oil through the 
years, and it shows the use of oil through the years. Now, if you had 
only one chart that you could look at, this chart, I think, conveys 
more information than any other. And even without M. King Hubbert's 
predictions, I think that you would conclude that we're probably going 
to max out in oil production about now. Because look what we have here.

We have discoveries back through the 1940s and the 1950s, and boy did 
we discover it in the 1960s and the 1970s, and then another surge 
around the 1980s. But down, down, down since then. And


that's in spite of ever better technologies for discovering oil, ever 
more interest in discovering oil. It's been down, down, down.

Now, obviously, if you add up all of these bars, you will know the 
total amount of oil that we have discovered. That is frequently done by 
simply drawing a smooth curve over those bars. That tells you that the 
area under the curve represents the total volume. I say that because 
there's another curve here which is very important, and that is the 
consumption curve.

Notice that early on in the 1960s, boy, in the 1970s, we were finding 
enormously more oil than we were using. So every year we had bigger and 
bigger reserves behind us that we could rely on. And then about 1980, 
when the discovery of oil was down, and we were using more and more 
oil, ever since about 1980, we have been using more oil than we found. 
Well, we could do that because we had extra back here that we hadn't 
used. So we simply could borrow from this and pump it here and fill 
that volume with it.

I want to point out something about this curve which is really very 
interesting. You notice how steep the curve is here. This is up through 
the Carter years. Now, had we continued on that trajectory, we would 
now be well off the top of this chart.

The oil price spike hikes of the 1970s, and the recession that 
occurred then, notice the little dip there, were really blessings in 
disguise. There's an old saying that it's an ill wind that blows no 
good.

I lived through all of those gas lines, even, odd, the end of your 
license plate, the day you could fill up your tank.

But look what happened as a result of that wake up call. Boy, are we 
more efficient now than we were then. Look at the slope of this curve 
as compared to the slope of this curve. And we're getting even more and 
more efficient. This is an exponential rise. And it would be off the 
top of the chart.

As a matter of fact, there was a stunning statistic during the Carter 
years. Every decade the world used as much oil as it had used in all of 
previous history. Now, that's stunning, because what that says is that 
when you used half of it, only 10 years will remain. We're very much 
better off.

By the way, oil's not going to run out in 10 years or 20 or 30. We 
have another 150 years of oil, gas and coal, but at ever decreasing 
amounts, ever more difficult to find, ever more expensive.

When we talk about peak oil and the energy crisis, that does not mean 
we're running out of oil. What that means is we're running out of our 
ability to produce oil as fast as we would like to use it.

Well, what will the future look like?

Now, I said if you had only this chart to look at you could make some 
really educated guesses about what the future is going to look like, 
because you cannot pump what you have not found. And unless you think 
that there's going to be some startling new discoveries in the future, 
it's been down, down, down, for 30 years. Unless you think there's 
going to be some startling new discoveries in the future, these are the 
reserves that we have to fill in the volume here about what this chart 
suggests we might find.

Now, it won't be smooth like that. It will be up and down, but it 
might be reasonably that kind of a slope.

So I think that even without the predictions of M. King Hubbert, just 
looking at this oil chart, it would be very easy to conclude that we 
probably, very soon, if not now, would have reached the maximum 
production of oil.

The next chart looks at some of the geopolitical consequences of 
this. This is the world according to oil. This is what the geography of 
the world would look like if the size of the country was related to how 
much oil it had. Some really interesting things here.

Saudi Arabia dominates the landscape. They should. They have 22 
percent of all the known reserves of oil in all the world. And notice, 
their near neighbors, Iraq, Kuwait, Iran, second, third and fourth. 
United Arab Emirates. You almost have to have a magnifying glass to 
find them on the map, and there they are. Look how huge they are in 
terms of the amount of oil they have. And then Northern Africa.

Here we are, the United States. The yellow means that we're a big 
user of oil. Our small size means we don't have much. And notice the 
people from whom we get most of our oil. Canada is our Number 1 
supplier. They have much less oil than we. But they don't have very 
many people so they can ship oil to us.

Mexico, until about a month ago, was our Number 2 supplier. But their 
largest oil field, which is the second largest oil field in the world, 
Cantoral, is now in steep decline, about 8, 10 percent a year. Now our 
Number 2 supplier is Saudi Arabia.

Mexico. But notice that Mexico and Canada together have little more 
oil than we have. And we have only 2 percent of the known reserves in 
the world. Maybe they have 3 percent. Maybe all three of us together 
here have 4, 5, 6 percent of the oil in the world. That's all.

Even more alarming, notice the size of China and India. Here they 
are. 1.3 billion people and 1.1 billion people, more than a third of 
the world's population, and they have less oil than the United States 
has.

When you go to China, and I did with 8 other Members of Congress 
about 16 months ago, and they begin their discussion of energy by 
talking about post-oil. So China knows that they have to transition.

The next chart is kind of a bar chart which shows the same thing, 
pretty much, that we saw in that chart. If you take the 10 largest 
owners of oil in the world, 98 percent of all that oil belongs to 
countries rather than companies. Saudi Aramco, National Iranian, Iraqi 
National Oil, Kuwait Petroleum Company and so forth. Only 2 percent by 
Lukoil, that's a big Russian oil company.

Now, if you look at the 10 producers of oil, 78 percent of the first 
10 producers of oil, all that oil comes from countries, not companies, 
again, these nationally owned oil companies. And only 22 percent comes 
from the big three.

There's obviously a lot of angst over the high price of oil, and 
people are looking around for who to blame. And there are a lot of 
people who blame the big oil companies. They're gouging us.

There are a lot of people who blame the OPEC countries, and many of 
them are here; because they say they're holding back on oil to drive 
the prices up. Probably neither one of those things are true. There is 
pretty good evidence that OPEC is pumping oil about as fast as it can 
pump oil.

Russia, not a part of OPEC, but a big producer, noted several weeks 
ago that they had reached their maximum oil production.

Saudi Arabia, just last week admitted to maximizing out on oil 
production. They're trying to bring a new field on-line, the Kuras 
field. It's a very technical field. It may get 1.2 million barrels a 
day. That's a lot. But they may get nothing. They've spent billions of 
dollars drilling wells. They're going to have to flood the field with 
seawater under pressure because that oil is so tightly held in the 
rocks that it won't flow. And if they do is just right they can get the 
oil to flow in large amounts, and they may get for quite a number of 
years, 1.2 million barrels a day. But that's kind of iffy.

But even if they get that and get it on-line, it will barely maintain 
their present oil production. It will not increase their oil 
production.

The next chart speaks again to this geopolitical situation. This is 
the chart which shows who is buying oil where in the world. And you see 
these symbols for Russia. Here they tried to buy UniCal in our country. 
They have bought a lot of the production from Canada, South America, 
the Middle East, Northern Africa. You see their symbol all over the 
map.

Why are they buying oil? Today it doesn't make any difference who 
owns the oil. The person who comes, the country, the company that comes 
with the dollars buys the oil. It doesn't make a bit of difference.

We own only 2 percent of the oil in the world, and we use 25 percent 
of the oil in the world because we come with our dollars and we buy the 
oil from those who have it for sale.

So why would China be buying oil? You can't get inside their head, 
but you can make some prognostications from what you see. You go to 
China, by the way, and they talk about post-oil. There will be a post-
oil world. It's not forever. It is finite. It will run out. And China 
is talking about post-oil.



But while we still have some oil, they have a policy, a 5-point plan, 
and everybody knows it over there, all of their leaders know it, not 
just the people in energy and oil and coal know it. Everybody over 
there talked to us about the 5-point plan.

Number 1 is conservation. That's where whatever country, and this is 
where it's got to begin. We have now run out of time. We have run out 
of excess energy. We can buy some time and free up some energy if we 
have an aggressive program in conservation.

Number 2 and Number 3 were alternatives, and as many of those as you 
can from your own country.

Number 4 may surprise you. Be kind to the environment. They know 
they're awful polluters, but they have 900 million people in rural 
areas that, through the miracle of communications, know the benefits of 
industrialization. And I think they see their empire unraveling the way 
the Soviet empire unraveled if they cannot meet the demands of these 
people.

So why are they buying all the oil? At the same time they're buying 
this, oh by the way, they're not just buying oil; they're buying good 
will. Would you like a soccer stadium? Is it hospitals you need, roads? 
So in addition to buying the oil they're buying goodwill.

At the same time that they're doing this, they are aggressively 
building a blue water navy. They launched many times, I don't know the 
exact number, maybe 10, submarines last year. We launched one.

Now, their submarines aren't ours yet, but I would note that they are 
graduating six times as many engineers as we graduate, and about half 
of our engineers are Chinese students.

I was stunned the other day when I learned that in our patent office 
more than 60 percent of the applications for a new patent come from 
Asia.

They are very aggressively building a blue water navy. Might the day 
come that they would say well, gee, I'm sorry, guys, but we have 1.3 
billion people, the oil is ours and we can't share it.

Today there's no alternative, the way the marketplace works but that 
you're going to share your oil.

The next chart, and I've already mentioned some of these numbers. We 
have only 2 percent of the world's reserves of oil. By the way, these 
numbers encouraged 30 of our prominent leaders, Jim Woolsey and 
McFarland and Boyden Gray and 27 others, several retired 4-Star 
admirals and generals to write a letter to the President saying, Mr. 
President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's reserves 
of oil, and we use 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-
thirds of what we use is really a totally unacceptable national 
security risk.



We've got to do something about that. That little 2 percent we have, 
by the way, from that we produce 8 percent of the world's oil. So we're 
good at pumping oil.

As I mentioned earlier, we have drilled more oil wells than all the 
rest of the world put together. So it is not surprising that we're 
pumping down our oil reserves four times faster than the rest of the 
world. We have a bit less than 5 percent than the world's population, 
and we use 25 percent of the worlds' oil.

I'm going to next look at some of the things that I personally have 
been doing and some of the things that Congress has been doing, and 
then I am going to recognize my very good friend, Zach Wamp from 
Tennessee, who has come with us to share some of this time with us.