---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `8bff7963104ac3d6228b05d76a471331`
`Mr. LEVIN — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, voting ''no'' today will not bring home the 
troops during the next four months. The President is determined that 
the troops remain during this period. The danger is that cutting the 
funds could leave our troops in Iraq without the necessary equipment, 
including equipment vital for their safety. It is so difficult to watch 
the deaths of so many brave American soldiers. Until we can force the 
President to bring them home, we must give them the equipment they need 
to keep them safe.

So de-funding this supplemental will not shorten the war but could 
endanger the safety of our men and women in uniform. This is the issue 
confronting those of us, like myself, who actively opposed going to war 
in the first place 4 years ago, and who have voted time and again since 
then to press the White House and the Iraqi government to achieve a 
number of key benchmarks so our troops can come home. The Iraqi 
government has to finally step up and make some difficult political 
decisions and end the sectarian violence that is tearing their country 
apart.

The benchmarks contained in this bill are important, but they would 
be much more effective if they were backed up by a realistic timetable 
for the redeployment of our troops if the benchmarks are not met. The 
House and Senate approved just such a bill last month, but the 
President vetoed it and there were not enough votes in either the House 
or the Senate to override the President. Everyone should understand 
that it was not for lack of Democratic votes that we were unable to 
force the President to change direction on Iraq. The problem is that it 
takes a two-thirds vote of the House and Senate to override a 
Presidential veto and only a handful of Republicans were willing to 
vote with us.

This bill contains funds to provide our troops with body armor, 
vehicles designed to withstand improvised explosive devices, 
countermeasures to roadside bombs and mines, and medical care to treat 
their injuries. Again, voting no on the bill today won't force the 
President to withdraw our troops from Iraq; it just means our troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan won't get the resources they need to protect 
themselves. Voting no would also cut off funding needed to sustain our 
military and political efforts in Afghanistan. This is an area that 
many of us feel deserves more attention and resources, not less.

It is critical that today's vote is not the end of this debate. The 
funds provided for Iraq in this bill run only through September. In the 
weeks ahead, there will be other opportunities for Congress to change 
the direction of this war, to hold the Iraqi government and President 
Bush accountable, and bring our troops home. The legislation we need to 
debate and pass is one that essentially deauthorizes our current 
military involvement in Iraq and provide a responsible timeline for the 
orderly redeployment of our forces. I regret that this is not the bill 
before us today, but we will have this debate in September. At that 
time, I hope that more of our Republican colleagues will join us in 
voting to change the President's policy on Iraq.