---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF UNITED STATES ARMY STAFF SERGEANT CHRISTOPHER M.  MOORE
## `8c0425a8bbd510758ef20777a34fbf25`
`Mr. COSTA — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
the life of SSG Christopher M. Moore, who lost his life defending our 
Nation in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Christopher M. Moore attended Alpaugh High School in Alpaugh, CA. He 
excelled in academics and graduated early. After Christopher graduated 
from high school he joined the United States Army. He was so proud to 
serve in the military; he enlisted for a second term. Christopher Moore 
was the first Alpaugh High School graduate to die in combat.

While serving with the 1st Battalion 5th Cavalry Regiment, 1st 
Cavalry Division based at Fort Hood, Texas, Christopher performed all 
of his active duties with great satisfaction. Tragically, on Armed 
Forces Day, Saturday, May 19, 2007, the vehicle in which Christopher 
traveled was hit by an improvised explosive device. Christopher and 
five other soldiers were killed in the incident.

Christopher is survived by his mother, Martha Moore, two sisters, and 
one brother. Also surviving are his three young daughters and numerous 
friends.

It is my belief that Michael's life symbolizes the ultimate sacrifice 
one can make for his country. His valor, strength, courage and 
determination to fight for our Nation will forever live in the minds 
and hearts of his family and Americans across the country. SSG 
Christopher M. Moore's dedication to the principles of freedom and 
democracy will serve as an example to all of us and for generations to 
come.



