---
---

# MASTER SERGEANT KENNETH N. MACK POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `8c085bc8981b273ddde214cb73bf0dd2`
`Mr. SHAYS — 22 January 2008`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, today we honor the life of Marine Corps Master 
Sergeant Kenneth Mack, a soldier who strongly believed in the fight for 
freedom and was a true American hero.

In 1982, shortly after graduating from Southwest High School, Master 
Sergeant Mack joined the Marines, where he served honorably for 23 
years. Master Sergeant Mack was a Postal Service mechanic and Master 
Sergeant in the Marine Reserve assigned to the


Second Marine Expeditionary Force out of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.

In March of last year, this dedicated soldier was called to duty in 
Iraq for the second time and once again had to leave his family to 
serve his country. On the morning of May 5th of that year, a roadside 
bomb struck Master Sergeant Mack's vehicle in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. 
In a flash, an outstanding 23-year Marine Corps career was over and he 
was killed.

A passionate family man, Sergeant Mack's wife remembers him as a 
person who put his family first and made sure the family participated 
in many activities together. His primary goal in life was to be a 
mentor for his children and to all children, according to his wife. He 
leaves behind his wife, mother and two children. I might just add, 
obviously he put his country first, too.

Madam Speaker, in recognition of his service to his community and 
country as a Postal Service mechanic and Marine, we feel it is fitting 
to name the postal facility located at 3701 Altamesa Boulevard in Forth 
Worth, Texas, in honor of Master Sergeant Kenneth Mack.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.