---
---

# IN TRIBUTE TO REPRESENTATIVE JOHN P. MURTHA OF PENNSYLVANIA
## `8c09ad713ede25e00816f8541fd7d369`
`Mr. PASCRELL — 24 February 2010`

---


Mr. PASCRELL. We who worked with Jack Murtha day in and day out 
really appreciated his deep respect for this institution.

In a time when we see the demise of institutional respect and ritual, 
he enjoyed the ritual of this House, just as he enjoyed the ritual of 
serving his country as a marine. He enjoyed the ritual of marriage. He 
was honorable, he was devoted, and he was faithful; a faithful brother 
who served his country and asked nothing in return. Man, that is 
different in this city.

Jack and I 7 years ago came together in two different paths in order 
to respond to our soldiers, our brothers and sisters, our aunts and 
uncles and fathers and mothers who were coming back from Iraq and 
Afghanistan with the signature injury of those two wars: traumatic 
brain injury. No contusion, no blood, misdiagnosed, never diagnosed. 
And post-traumatic stress disorder. It was part of my official family. 
I knew it firsthand. And Jack said, Why don't we bring the civilian 
research and the military research together. So we set out. Can you 
imagine going into a war without having ready how we would help those 
soldiers coming back? Jack couldn't. And he did something about it.

When you go to Walter Reed Hospital, a hospital that was supposed to 
be closed, if you remember, 4 years ago, and you see the state of the 
art, he did not give up on those soldiers, many of whom would be dead 
if it were not for what he did in getting the resources so that the 
state-of-the-art treatment for our soldiers would be there.

To his friends on both sides of the aisle, let us remember when Jack 
would come to the microphone, and it wasn't often, but he came to the 
microphone during appropriations time, and he would say many times to 
me, Billy, watch how quick I'm there and I'll be gone. And you would 
think the chairman would want to give a dissertation. But he had done 
his homework. There were no speeches that were necessary. He did not 
mention platitudes. It was honor, duty, and then a nonpretentious exit.

Good friend, you are not gone. We will remember you and we love you.