# None
## `8c0cca14a90e077c578c359132a25aea`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, it is so refreshing to 
hear you speak about this legislation, especially being fresh off the 
campaign trail, especially being a new Member of Congress. And I can 
tell you that as long as you continue to keep that spirit, and Members 
of this House and the majority continue to keep the spirit of wanting 
to do everything that you said you would do on the night that you were 
elected.

You know, many of us gave these great speeches, Mr. Speaker, talking 
about when we get to Washington, this is what we will do, and that I am 
going to be there for you, and that I am going to make sure that you 
get the kind of accountability that you deserve. I am going to make 
sure that your tax dollars are being spent in an appropriate way. I am 
going to make sure that we take care of the troops. I am going to make 
sure that we hold this administration accountable. And then many times 
in the past, not this time fortunately, but many times in the past, a 
Member gets here to Washington, DC, starts walking around the Halls of 
Congress; a couple of folks call you Congressman or Congresswoman, you 
have a parking space downstairs. You know, folks, military folks, 
salute you when you get off a plane. You travel over into a foreign 
land, and in a motorcade going down the street, and then you forget 
about all those things. And I am so glad, Mr. Murphy, that you have 
that spirit still in your heart. And there are a number of Members of 
Congress who still have that spirit.

And, Mr. Speaker, the reason why sometimes I get a little animated 
and a little excited about the fact that we have some Members here in 
the House who are willing to be followers when it is time for them to 
be leaders, and to take a position on anything, it doesn't matter what 
it may be; if it is changing, you know, the color of the paint in your 
office, it takes leadership to be able to do that because you have to 
stand behind that decision.

The decision saying that we want to make sure that the readiness 
level of our troops before they are put into harm's way is an important 
decision to be made and a decision that has been endorsed by the 
Defense Department. This is not new language, this is not a new idea, 
this is something that has to be placed into this supplemental to make 
sure the Defense Department does exactly what they said they would do 
in their own policy. We are not putting forth any new benchmarks for 
the Iraqi Government; this is what the President said. This is what he 
said, this is what came out of his mouth, that they have to meet these 
benchmarks, or we will no longer continue to do the things we have been 
doing. So that is the reason why it is in writing.

It is almost like when you talk to someone on the phone, and you have 
a health care crisis, and you call down to the hospital and you say, 
listen, I have a problem, I need you to help me out. You are talking to 
a person on the phone. First of all, you may say, can I have your name, 
please; who am I speaking with? Or another example: If I'm looking for 
financing for my house, and I am talking to someone on the phone, and 
they say, yes, sure, we can give you a very low interest rate, a 3.2 
percent interest rate. Hey, can you give me that in writing?

What we are doing here in this emergency supplemental is we are 
giving the American people and our men and women in harm's way a 
supplemental in writing. It is not a speech. We are not talking to the 
Kiwanis Club, even though we have great Kiwanis Clubs out there, don't 
get me wrong. We are not at a Rotary luncheon giving those speeches 
back home saying, ''I love the troops, I love the troops.'' We are 
putting it in writing. We are not saying we love the veterans, when the 
veterans come up here to look at this great Capitol and see the flags 
flying over the House Chamber and over the Senate and over the dome of 
the Capitol and over the office buildings and all, proud to be an 
American, proud that they had something to do with allowing us to 
salute one flag. It is not about a little speech I give out on the 
sidewalk thanking them for help. They want to see it in writing. They 
want to make sure we have their back.

This is a leadership call, you have to make a decision. And the 
bottom line is we have been elected and federalized by our constituents 
to make decisions. And I can guarantee you, Mr. Murphy, there is not a 
Republican voter or a Democratic voter or any Independent voter who has 
a problem with accountability, and that is what this bill does.

Now, someone may have a problem with the fact that they didn't do 
what they needed to do when they were in the majority to do it. And now 
we have provided an opportunity, and I have pointed out all of the 
votes here earlier, and then some, of the opportunities that we have 
allowed Republicans to have a bill that they wanted to vote for all 
along to the floor, and they voted in the affirmative, even though 
their leadership voted the other way. Now, that is for their leadership 
to say that they are accountable to their constituents because they 
decided to vote against something good.

But when you look at this emergency supplemental, this emergency 
supplemental is the first time since this war has started, Mr. Murphy, 
Members, Mr. Speaker, the first time that the President actually would 
have a document in writing that passed in the affirmative on this floor 
to say that the Iraqi Government will meet these benchmarks, or 
redeployment will stop; to say we will make sure that we invest in 
veterans health care and giving Homeland Security what they need to be 
able to carry out the duty and protection of the homeland.

It also says, Department of Defense, pulling a page out of your own 
regulations, and we are going to put it in the bill to make sure that 
you actually do it, not just some bureaucrat sitting over there at the 
Pentagon saying we have to find three more brigades from somewhere, if 
they are ready or not, we have to make sure that we have the numbers in 
Iraq. If that soldier has only been home for 120 days, and we call for 
200-plus days of downtime with their families to be able to regroup 
from being in a battle zone, those are rights that our men and women 
have. So we are no longer leaving that decision up to some bureaucrat 
in the Pentagon to make on behalf of an American who goes off to fight 
on our behalf.

Now, is there language in there in case of emergencies; you know, if 
the


President, within the national interest that we have to redeploy, we 
have to send these troops back into the theater? Of course there is.



Are we hindering the President from him being Commander in Chief? No, 
we are not. But what we are saying is that there are rules, and you 
have to live by those rules. And it is going to be a majority vote here 
in this House, and the question, Mr. Speaker, how many Members are 
going to be with us when we make that majority vote here in the House 
to set forth the parameters of success on behalf of not only the men 
and women in uniform, but those that have worn the uniform and those 
that have been injured and cannot return back to battle, and even for 
those that are going to battle, that they have exactly what they need.

We know that we have the number one best military, most able military 
on the face of the Earth. But at the same time, we have to have respect 
for that military and making sure that the men and women have what they 
need and their families.

Mr. Murphy.