---
---

# FAMILY SMOKING PREVENTION AND TOBACCO CONTROL ACT
## `8c11d5a000e574cd0ba53f569dad1f0e`
`Ms. COLLINS — 8 June 2009`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I rise as a cosponsor of a bipartisan 
amendment that will provide targeted reforms to the Federal Employee 
Retirement System in order to be more effective and equitable for our 
past, current, and future Federal employees. I am joining Senators 
Lieberman, Akaka, and Voinovich in this effort.

First, I would like to highlight a provision that I was pleased to 
introduce earlier this year as a bipartisan stand-alone measure with 
Senators Voinovich, Kohl, and McCaskill.

This portion of the amendment would establish a 5-year pilot project 
allowing agencies to hire back Federal retirees for a limited period of 
time without having to offset their salaries by the amount of their 
annuities. This will strengthen the Federal Government's ability to 
serve the public, particularly at a time when agencies face a wave of 
retirement of highly experienced employees and there exists a critical 
need for these skilled employees.

Across the government, our agencies face a host of challenging 
missions that require focused leadership and vigilant oversight. In 
Afghanistan, our government faces an increasing demand for development 
experts. As the government implements the Recovery Act, experienced 
auditors are in high demand to ensure funds are spent wisely.

On average, however, retirements from the Federal workforce have 
exceeded 50,000 a year for a decade. The numbers will certainly rise in 
the near future. The Office of Personnel Management calculates that 60 
percent of the current Federal workforce, whose civilian component 
approaches 3 million people, will be eligible to retire during the 
coming 10 years.

This baby boom retirement wave will have another impact. It will 
cause a sudden acceleration in the loss of accumulated skills and 
mentoring capabilities that experienced workers possess.

The amendment we offer today would provide a limited, but vital, 
measure of relief to agencies who could benefit from the skills, 
knowledge, and productivity of federal retirees. It provides an 
opportunity for Federal agencies to reemploy retirees without requiring 
them to take pay cuts based on the amount of their annuity payment.

With some exceptions, retirees can currently return to work without 
having their salaries reduced only if OPM grants a waiver for the 
reemployment. This creates a disincentive for experienced Federal 
retirees to return to Federal service--preventing their knowledge and 
experience from filling critical agency needs.

The cumbersome waiver process also dissuades agencies from 
considering annuitants when evaluating their overall workforce 
strategy.

Congress has already provided exceptions to this rule. Both GAO and 
the Department of Defense have utilized this authority to rehire 
skilled annuitants to meet important mission requirements.

Other agencies, especially those charged with overseeing the stimulus 
and TARP funds, need the same ability to hire back experienced workers. 
Acting Comptroller General Gene Dodaro has indicated that the ability 
to reemploy annuitants without salary offset is a critical authority 
that GAO uses whenever a surge in staffing is necessary.

This amendment would grant the opportunity for Federal agencies, on a 
limited basis, to reemploy retirees without requiring them to take pay 
cuts based on their annuity payment or to wait for OPM to grant a 
waiver.

While providing needed flexibility for agencies to meet mission 
critical responsibilities, the amendment would also strictly prescribe 
the periods of time for which retirees can be rehired, thereby 
preventing agencies from relying solely on retirees instead of hiring a 
new crop of employees to fill the ranks behind our seasoned employees 
as they retire.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, this provision will not 
cost the Federal Government any additional money. The returning 
annuitants' health and life insurance benefits would be unaffected by 
their part-time work, and the government would not need to make any 
additional contributions to the annuitant's retirement plan. Thus, even 
without making any allowance for the positive effects of these 
returning employees' organizational knowledge, commitment, 
productivity, and mentoring potential, their reemployment may actually 
produce a net savings for taxpayers.

This reform would also provide some much needed hiring flexibilities 
for agencies, given the expertise the Federal Government will need to 
effectively implement and oversee the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009. The Chair of the Council of Inspectors 
General on Integrity and Efficiency, in testimony before the Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, agreed with this point, 
and the council has sent a letter endorsing this authority.

The ability to rehire Federal retirees would also help strengthen the 
Federal acquisition workforce. The Federal Government has entered the 
21st century with 22 percent fewer Federal civilian acquisition 
personnel than it had at the start of the 1990s. Moreover, as early as 
2012, 50 percent of the entire Federal acquisition workforce will be 
eligible to retire. This amendment will help shore up this workforce at 
a critical time.

The bill I originally introduced with this provision has been 
endorsed by the Partnership for Public Service, National Active and 
Retired Federal Employees Association, Federally Employed Women, the 
Government Managers Coalition, and the National Council on Aging.

Beyond this provision, the amendment also corrects an inequity 
between the two Federal retirement systems--FERS and CSRS. Current law 
compensates CSRS employees at the time of their retirement for the 
unused portion of the sick leave that they accrued over the course of 
their Federal careers. Employees under FERS are not provided similar 
compensation. This creates an unfair disparity within the Federal 
workforce which this amendment would rectify.

This amendment includes many provisions that would help to strengthen 
the Federal workforce, attracting highly skilled and talented employees 
at a time when they are desperately needed. I urge my colleagues to 
support this amendment.