# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8c15439199db94d0f57838f5105d54ba`
`Mr. PASTOR — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. PASTOR. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the resolution.

Madam Speaker, I am proud that under our Speaker's leadership, 
Congress today is voicing the will of the American people in opposition 
to the Administration's deployment of more U.S. military personnel to 
Iraq. Voters made it clear in November that they do not support the 
administration's current strategy. It is time that Congress act to 
bring U.S. policy in line with reality.

I opposed the initial resolution authorizing the President to invade 
Iraq, because I felt that the administration had failed to exhaust 
diplomatic remedies and allow the U.N. weapons inspectors to finish 
their job. Since the invasion, however, I have supported funding the 
war effort to ensure that our troops on the ground have the equipment 
and support that they needed. But increasing troop levels and failing 
to question the President's policy is a disservice to our courageous 
men and women in uniform. We cannot keep asking them to put their lives 
on the line every day for objectives that have become increasingly 
unclear.



The President declared ''mission accomplished'' in May 2003, and in a 
sense he was right. Saddam Hussein and Iraqi weapons of mass 
destruction are no longer a threat to our nation. The Iraqi people have 
held free elections and drafted a constitution. The violence we see in 
Iraq today is based in sectarian conflict--it has become a civil war. 
The outcome depends not on the American will to stay in the fight, but 
on the will of the Iraqi people to forge their own future. We cannot do 
it for them.

Troop surges in the past have not worked. No number of American 
troops in Iraq can fix what is essentially a political problem. The 
only surge I support is a surge of diplomacy. It is time to bring our 
brave young men and women home from Iraq. Their job there is done, and 
their skills and dedication can be better used on the real fronts of 
the war on terrorism, both domestic and abroad.