# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `8c1956416cb8e66407c36477380cd52f`
`Mr. WOLF — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, there are legitimate and important emergency 
funding needs for the troops and our Federal civilian corps on the 
ground in Iraq and elsewhere. The President requested $93.4 billion in 
emergency supplemental appropriations to continue the fight against 
terrorism, and that is what we should be doing.

Unfortunately, this bill offers, I think, a way of not doing that in 
an appropriate way. It is bloated with $124.3 billion in spending, $21 
billion over what was requested. It is true we have provided funding 
for emergency supplementals before, but it would be hard pressed to 
convince the American people that $25 million for spinach producers, 
which may be important to do, but in the regular order; $74 million for 
peanut storage may be appropriate, but in regular order. It should not 
be done here. At the same time it does that, it restricts the civilian 
spending for the provincial reconstruction teams, which helps us do 
some of the civilian things that we should be doing in Iraq.

The larger issue, however, is this legislation before us has become a 
vehicle, unfortunately, for polarization on the fight to stabilize 
Iraq. I have been there three times. I believe tying the hands of our 
military commanders to adapt to the changing circumstances can only 
hurt our mission and our troops.

I don't believe it is a good policy to criticize the administration's 
strategy as failing, while at the same time cutting the very funding 
necessary for the administration and the troops to succeed, and then 
putting conditions on releasing the funding provided. They just don't 
all fit together.

We have to look no further than the report of the bipartisan Iraq 
Study Group to find ''the way forward, a new approach for Iraq.'' Just 
last months when we debated the Iraq war resolution, 106 Members from 
both sides of the aisle mentioned the importance of the Iraq Study 
Group and how they supported it.

Last night Mr. Shays asked the Rules Committee to make in order an 
amendment that I was cosponsoring to do exactly that, and it was turned 
down, and just at the very time the diplomatic engagement that most of 
us wanted to see take place begins to take place. The meeting 2 weeks 
ago had us engaging with the Syrians and the Iranians. We accepted Mr. 
Moran's amendment in the full committee, which was good, to really put 
the Congress on record in support of that diplomatic effort. But Mr. 
Shays was turned down again, as I was turned down several weeks ago.

The Iraq Study Group's Cochairmen Baker and Hamilton said in the 
group report, ''The U.S. foreign policy is doomed to failure, as is any 
course in action in Iraq, if not supported by a broad, sustained 
consensus.''

This bill is not a broad, sustained consensus. The recommendation of 
the Iraq Study Group could have brought us, and still may very well 
bring us, to a consensus that unites the Congress and the nation on 
Iraq. That is the policy both the Congress and the administration 
should embrace. This bill does not do it, and I urge a ''no'' vote on 
it.

There are some legitimate and important emergency funding needs for 
our troops and our Federal civilian corps on the ground in Iraq and 
elsewhere. The President requested some $93.4 billion in emergency 
supplemental appropriations to continue the fight against terrorism. 
That's what this bill should be addressing.

Unfortunately, this bill fails to offer a reasonable way forward in 
supporting our troops, and I cannot vote for it.

This is a bloated $124.3 billion spending bill--over $21 billion than 
what was requested.



It's true we've provided funding for emergencies in other 
supplementals, for example hurricane relief and planning for a flu 
pandemic. But I think we would be hard pressed to convince the people 
we represent that $25 million for spinach producers or $74 million for 
peanut storage costs qualify as emergency spending needed today. The 
debate on that kind of spending should be part of the fiscal year 2008 
appropriations process where it belongs.

The larger issue, however, is that this legislation before us has 
become the vehicle for polarization on the fight to stabilize Iraq. It 
does not offer an alternative. Instead, it would ultimately mandate a 
retreat.

I have been to Iraq three times, and my concern for our troops has 
never been stronger. If I thought that this bill was in their best 
interests, I would support it.

Tying the hands of our military commanders to adapt to changing 
circumstances can only hurt our mission and our troops.

Within the State-Foreign Operations portion, it cuts funding 
necessary to support projects such as the Provincial Reconstruction 
Teams. PRTs are joint civilian-military teams living in the provinces 
among the Iraqi people. They work side-by-side with the Iraqis to 
identify development and governance programs and offer our best bet for 
improving stability and governance.

Cutting funding for these teams is cutting them off at their knees 
before they get a chance to stand up. These funds are essential for 
improving safety and stability--the very safety and stability which 
will enable our troops to withdraw more quickly.

I just don't believe it is good policy to criticize the 
administration's strategy as failing while at the same time cutting the 
very funding necessary for it to succeed and then putting conditions on 
releasing funds provided.

We have to look no further than the report of the bipartisan Iraq 
Study Group to find ''the way forward--a new approach'' for Iraq. They 
worked for more than 8 months, supported by expert working groups and 
senior military advisers in the areas of economy and reconstruction, 
military and security, political development, and strategic 
environment.

The study group's report released last December 6 was hailed as an 
important opportunity to chart a new course for Iraq. That is what we 
should be considering today.

Just last month when we debated the Iraq war resolution, 106 Members 
from both sides of the aisle mentioned the importance of the Iraq Study 
Group's recommendations as the way forward in Iraq.

Last night, Mr. Shays asked the Rules Committee to make in order an 
amendment, offered in partnership with me, to support the findings of 
the Iraq Study Group. By doing so, we believed the House would be 
working to meet our responsibility as political leaders to build 
bipartisan consensus on the issues of war and peace.

But his request was turned down. That was the second time in a month 
that the Rules Committee has not allowed an amendment on the Iraq Study 
Group's report. Instead, we have before us a political statement that 
pulls us farther apart.

The ramifications of this polarization reach far beyond Washington; 
all the way to Baghdad and the Iraqi provinces. I want to read from the 
letter Secretary Baker and Congressman Hamilton wrote as the prelude to 
the Iraq Study Group's recommendations:




 Many Americans are dissatisfied, not just with the 


 situation in Iraq but with the state of our political debate 


 regarding Iraq. Our political leaders must build a bipartisan 


 approach to bring a responsible conclusion to what is now a 


 lengthy and costly war. Our country deserves a debate that 


 prizes substance over rhetoric, and a policy that is 


 adequately funded and sustainable. The President and Congress 


 must work together. Our leaders must be candid and forthright 


 with the American people in order to win their support.


And it goes on to say:



 . . . U.S. foreign policy is doomed to failure--as is any 


 course of action in Iraq--if it is not supported by a broad, 


 sustained consensus. The aim of our report is to move our 


 country toward such a consensus.


The bill before us does not move the country toward a consensus. The 
country must come back together. We must be united. That is the only 
way we will be successful.

The recommendations of this distinguished group could have brought us 
to consensus and united the Congress and the Nation on Iraq. That is 
the policy both the Congress and the President should embrace.

I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill.