---
---

# None
## `8c1c445976633aa102a11ac6dab78476`
`Mr. CONRAD — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, our Nation's bomber fleet is a vital 
national asset. Bombers today offer global reach, operational 
responsiveness, and close air support for troops on the ground in ways 
that their designers could never have imagined. While our bomber fleet 
is currently aging, there is virtually no chance that new long-range 
bombers will enter service before 2020.

If we remove bombers from our active force and do not furnish them 
with critical upgrade programs, they will be irretrievably lost. This 
will create a ''bathtub'' in bomber capabilities that will last over a 
decade.

Over the last 2 years, the administration has proposed dramatically 
downsizing our bomber force, particularly by cutting the B-52 force 
from 94 aircraft to 56. Neither the House nor the Senate found the 
administration's arguments for cutting the bomber fleet persuasive. 
They both concluded that making deep B-52 retirements would put at risk 
our military's ability to carry out the national security strategy. Let 
me quote from the House Armed Services Committee's report:




 Committee also understands that the current B-52 combat 


 coded force structure is insufficient to meet combatant 


 commander requirements for conventional long range strike, if 


 the need should arise to conduct simultaneous operations in 


 two major regional conflicts.


The Senate Armed Services Committee had similar concerns:




 The Committee is concerned that any further reduction in 


 the B-52H total aircraft inventory will create unacceptable 


 risk to national security and may prevent our ability to 


 strike the required conventional target set during times of 


 war.


Because of these concerns, last year Congress enacted defense 
legislation allowing the retirement of only 18 B-52s, reducing the 
fleet to 76. But the law required that the savings from those 
retirements be devoted to modernizing the remaining bombers, and the 
law prohibited any further retirements until a next generation bomber 
was available--probably around 2018.

I will ask that section 131 of the John Warner National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 be printed in the Record, along 
with the relevant sections of the House and Senate Armed Services 
Committees' reports on that law.

Unfortunately, there have been some efforts to try to find a way 
around that law. For a while, it looked like there might be an effort 
to play games with the assignments of the B-52 fleet, by doubling up 
the assignments of aircraft that we now use for training and calling 
them ''dual coded'' training and combat aircraft. Then, instead of 
retiring B-52s, they would simply mothball them. But mothballed 
aircraft will do nothing to preserve our ability to fight and win two 
wars.

Based on the analysis of the Armed Services Committee and my own 
staff's analysis, it is clear that slashing the size of our B-52 force 
would significantly increase the risks we face in fighting and winning 
two nearly simultaneous contingencies. If we retired 38 B-52s, it would 
be impossible for the Air Force to deploy a bomber force comparable to 
the one we used during the initial days of the war in Iraq. During the 
initial 30 days of combat in Iraq, the Air Force used more than 80 B-
52s so it could sustain a deployed force of 42 B-52s at forward 
operating locations overseas. Obviously, the Air Force could not repeat 
that feat with just 56 B-52s.

Moreover, the war in Iraq has tied down a large share of our land 
forces and increased our dependence on the Air Force for dealing with 
any additional crises. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Peter Pace 
has made the situation very clear. He said, ''If another, [conflict] 
popped up tomorrow, regardless of where, . . . you would have the Navy 
and the Air Force being able to get there very quickly.''

Because we were concerned about the risks to our warfighting ability, 
last year Congress barred the Pentagon from retiring B-52s until the 
submission of a comprehensive Bomber Roadmap study by an independent 
research institution. That study still has not been completed.

Some people have tried to tie the B-52 issue to an altogether 
different question: whether the Air Force will be allowed to retire a 
long list of old aircraft in its inventory that currently have 
restrictions on their operation or are even grounded. Let me be clear. 
As chairman of the Budget Committee, I strongly agree that we need to 
retire unserviceable aircraft. There is no point in paying to maintain 
aircraft that we cannot fly.

The B-52 is not part of that problem. While it has flown for many 
years, the B-52 is still a young aircraft in flying


hour terms. The Air Force has said that today's H-model B-52 is flyable 
for another 30 to 40 years. Most commercial airliners have several 
times as many cycles per aircraft and airframe hours as the B-52, which 
spent most of the Cold War sitting alert on the ground.


In fact, the B-52 is in many ways the most valuable aircraft in our 
inventory. Today's B-52 has been modernized and can carry the widest 
range of weapons of any aircraft we own. It has the highest mission 
capable rate in the bomber force, and it costs the least to operate of 
any bomber. The FY 2006 reimbursement rate for the B-52 is $10,000 per 
flying hour less than the B-1B and $4,000 per flying hour less than the 
B-2.

Does it make sense to try to save money by cutting the portion of the 
bomber force that is by far the least expensive to operate and has the 
highest utilization and mission capable rates? I don't think so.

The B-52 is an indispensable tool for our nation's military, being 
used in combat overseas on a daily basis. It is crucial that we 
maintain a sizeable bomber force and that each plane is outfitted with 
the most technologically advanced equipment.

The Conrad-Dorgan-Landrieu-Vitter amendment reinforces the law we 
passed last year requiring a B-52 force of no less than 76 aircraft. 
This amendment requires that the 76 aircraft B-52 force include 63 
active aircraft, 11 backup aircraft and two reserve aircraft, just as 
it did in 2006. It will prohibit the Pentagon from reducing the 
maintenance status of some B-52s and creating ''hangar queens'' that 
are not regularly flown.

The Conrad amendment also requires technological upgrades to the 
entire B-52 fleet, ensuring the planes are using the latest in defense 
technology. It states that the entire fleet must be kept in a ''common 
configuration.'' The Senate and House Armed Services Committees have 
already authorized additional funding for B-52s to ensure that the full 
76 aircraft fleet is upgraded.

It makes absolutely no sense to try to save money by cutting the 
cheapest bombers to operate. With ongoing conflicts in Iraq, 
Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world, our Nation should 
accelerate the modernization of our bomber force rather than shrinking 
it.

I thank the distinguished managers of the bill for their support of 
this amendment and look forward to working with them as the Defense 
authorization bill moves toward enactment.

I ask unanimous consent that the material to which I referred be 
printed in the Record.