---
---

# TRIBUTE TO GEN T. MICHAEL MOSELEY
## `8c2aeec6bab5e6fd13e4e12c3474503e`
`Mr. INHOFE — 9 July 2008`

---

 Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, today I pay special tribute to 
GEN T. Michael Moseley, 18th Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force, who, 
completed 37 years of distinguished service to our Nation today. He is 
an exemplary patriot, extraordinary leader, and a close friend.

General Moseley began his accomplished career at Texas A&M and Webb 
AFB, where he earned his pilot's wings in 1973. He proceeded to a 
series of demanding assignments as flight instructor, test pilot and 
mission commander. His peerless operational skills were honed by the 
most prestigious positions, to include command at every level--most 
notably the Air Force Fighter Weapons School, the 9th Air Force, and 
the U.S. Central Command Air Forces. General Moseley led Airmen in 
peace, crisis and war--from Operation Southern Watch, through the 
harrowing days in the wake of 9/11, to victory over the Taliban in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and the destruction of Saddam Hussein's war 
machine in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

The breadth and depth of General Moseley's assignments and the 
professionalism with which he has carried them out, reflect a keen 
intellect, and an unrivaled grasp of national security policies and air 
power's role in implementing them. General Moseley tirelessly worked to 
reinvigorate the innovation, flexibility, creativity, and strategic 
thinking that have been hallmarks of America's Airmen since the dawn of 
aviation. In this context, General Moseley redefined the Air Force for 
the 21st Century, ensuring that America's guardians will continue to 
fly, fight and win in both today's and tomorrow's conflicts.

General Moseley has frequently testified before Congress on a wide 
variety of issues critical not only to the Air Force but to this Nation 
and its ability to meet uncertain challenges in the future. However 
controversial the topic or pointed the questioning, he has always 
provided the Members with his honest evaluation, balancing current 
crises with future requirements. I have been impressed by his 
unwavering focus on this Nation's security and ensuring that the U.S. 
Air Force remains the preeminent Air Force in the world, preserving 
America's asymmetric advantage in the air.

It was General Moseley's exceptional grasp of warfighters' needs, 
born of his own combatant experience, that enabled the Air Force to 
provide unprecedented Global Reach, Global Vigilance and Global Power 
for both traditional and nontraditional missions. Under his


leadership, the Air Force spread its wings over America's cities, 
delivered relief to victims of tsunamis and hurricanes, expanded 
international ties to reassure allies and deter enemies--all while 
flying and fighting as an indispensable part of the Joint force in 
Iraq, Afghanistan and other theaters of the global war on terror.

His commitment to his Airmen has been peerless. In a constrained 
fiscal environment--and with lives in the balance--General Moseley's 
uncommon courage, expertise and foresight forged a set of initiatives 
transforming the Air Force while simultaneously recapitalizing an aging 
air fleet, worn down by 18 years of continuous combat. He sought to 
provide his Airmen with the quality of life they deserve, while seeing 
to their training, education and leadership. He has refocused the 
Service on a single core mission: bolstering warrior ethos and 
fostering joint and combined synergies.

While many distinguished awards and decorations adorn his uniform--
from his own grateful Nation as well as from such staunch allies as 
Britain, France, Korea, Brazil, Singapore, and the UAE--what stands out 
most and what we honor him for today is his unflinching commitment to 
the cause of freedom and justice. As the 18th Chief of Staff and a 
member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from September 2005 to August 2008, 
General Moseley has been a trusted advisor on all aspects of airpower 
and its key role in promoting and defending America's interests at home 
and abroad. He remains to this day a staunch and consistent advocate of 
inter-Service and international cooperation as the most effective way 
of assuring allies, dissuading and deterring adversaries, and defeating 
implacable foes.

General T. Michael ''Buzz'' Moseley's 37 years of distinguished 
service epitomizes bold leadership, strategic vision, intellectual 
flexibility, innovation, honor, integrity, dignity and selfless 
devotion. He has earned the deepest respect from all whom he has served 
during his illustrious career--most notably this Congress and a 
grateful Nation.

I offer my sincere thanks and appreciation to GEN Buzz Moseley for 
his leadership, compassion, and service to the men and women of the Air 
Force and our country. I am honored to call you friend and pray that 
the Lord guard and guide you and your family as you begin the next 
chapter of your life.
