---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `8c45165e449fd35c01a4bf8d64240d06`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 29 July 2009`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Chairman, I want to thank Mr. Murtha and the 
ranking member for the work that they've done for our country, and my 
remarks are in no way in disrespect of that.

We are talking about $636 billion, which will help, among other 
things, to empower the continuation of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
We will have a brief debate here about $636 billion. The Congress has 
been gripped by the debate over health care for months now. We really 
need to have a serious discussion and debate about both the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan--the wars which are causing casualties to the 
troops that Mr. Murtha is so dedicated to. We really need to look at 
that and figure out when we are going to get out of there.

We need to set a time to get out of Iraq for real, not just the so-
called combat troops and leave detachments there, but to get out of 
Iraq for real and to get out of Afghanistan, where the casualties are 
increasing. We need to start coming back home and taking care of things 
here. We need to plus-up our military so we can be strong in defense 
but not cause our strength to be wasted in wars that are unnecessary.

I really appreciate the work you do, Mr. Murtha, but I also will tell 
you that we really need to have a much bigger debate about whether we 
should continue to be in that war. I'm going to vote against this bill 
just on principle. We should get out of Iraq and Afghanistan, and I 
have the same love for those troops that you have.













 Announcement By the Chair
