---
---

# IRANIAN REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS
## `8c469caac731a3503abe4eeb52bb1b0f`
`Mr. KYL — 24 September 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, first let me compliment my colleague from 
Connecticut, who is largely responsible for the idea of this amendment 
and much of the text of it, for his leadership over the years in trying 
to ensure we take appropriate action against Iran as it confronts 
America, both with regard to its nuclear program development as well 
as, more currently, its activities against our forces in Iraq. He has 
been truly inspirational, and I appreciate that leadership.

The Senator from Connecticut has well laid out the case for this 
sense-of-the-Senate amendment that the U.S. Government should designate 
specifically the Islamic Revolutionary Guard as a foreign terrorist 
organization and include it on the list of Specially Designated Global 
Terrorists. In addition, this sense-of-the-Senate amendment urges the 
use of our diplomatic and economic tools to pressure the Iranian regime 
not only to abandon its nuclear program but also to stop the use of its 
surrogates against our forces in Iraq.

There have been only two questions raised about this amendment. I am 
hoping and expecting that it will receive very strong bipartisan 
support tomorrow, assuming we are able to vote on it tomorrow. The only 
two questions were, first of all, Can this be read in any way as an 
authorization of military action against Iran? I will assure my 
colleagues that is absolutely not our intention--in fact, quite the 
opposite. This is intended to obviate the necessity for such military 
conduct. Nobody wants to have to engage in military action against Iran 
directly, but what we would like to do is get them to stop killing our 
troops. One way to do that is to put economic pressure on the 
organization that is doing the killing, and that is what this amendment 
would ask the administration to do.


Secondly, there is the question of whether the Islamic Revolutionary 
Guard is the appropriate entity to list on the Specially Designated 
Global Terrorists, and the answer to that is clearly yes. As I will 
point out in a moment, we have incontrovertible evidence that this is 
the group, as Senator Lieberman pointed out, that is causing the 
trouble.

Some have said: Well, we should just designate the Quds Force of the 
Islamic Revolutionary Guard as the terrorist entity. That is like 
saying the Mafia isn't really responsible for what the Mafia does; it 
is only their hit men. The Quds Force is the group of hit men for this 
entity. This entity is clearly the overall entity responsible for this 
action, and it is the entity that engages in the economic activity 
which supplies the financial resources to the Quds Force. So it would 
not be adequate, obviously, just to designate the Quds Force, which is 
an arm of the Revolutionary Guard, as the terrorist entity.

What evidence do we actually have that this is the entity of the 
Iranian


Government that is doing all the dirty work? Well, there are many 
public statements, and I will quote from some of them. Senator 
Lieberman quoted some of them. There is also other information, as one 
might imagine, and my colleagues should be encouraged to consult with 
terrorist agencies if they have any questions about the specific 
involvement of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard. But it is clear that 
this is the entity on which we should be focusing.

Senator Lieberman quoted one of General Petraeus's statements in his 
testimony before the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
Armed Services on September 10 that it is apparent Iran, through the 
use of the Iranian Republican Guard Corps--Quds Force--is causing this 
proxy war.

Here is something else General Petraeus also recently stated:




 We know that it goes as high as Suleimani--


And his full name is BG Qassem Suleimani--



 who is the head of the Quds Force of the Iranian Republican 


 Guards Corps. That is quite high level. We believe that he 


 works directly for the supreme leader of the country.


There is a specific reference to the IRGC.

In addition, Brigadier General Bergner, who is a spokesman for the 
Multi-National Force-Iraq, recently talked about the Quds Force 
operation in three camps near Teheran, and he said:




 The Quds Force, along with Hezbollah instructors, train 


 approximately 20 to 60 Iraqis at a time, sending them back to 


 Iraq organized into these special groups. They are being 


 taught how to use Explosively Formed Penetrators, mortars, 


 rockets, as well as intelligence, sniper and killing 


 operations. In addition to training, the Quds Force also 


 supplies the special groups with weapons and funding of 


 750,000 to 3 million U.S. dollars a month.


Now, Senator Lieberman also referred to General Odierno. When I was 
in Iraq last, I was ushered into General Odierno's office to have a 
very candid discussion with him, and what an impressive military 
officer he is. He said: Come look at what I have on the table here, and 
he proceeded to show us a great deal of military hardware and described 
to us what it was. Essentially, it was all of the things--examples of 
many of the things they had found supplied by Iran, the weaponry that 
is killing American troops. On one, he said: Here, look at this. He 
said: You probably can't read Farsi, but this says, ''Made in Iran.'' 
Well, I accept his statement of what the Farsi says: ''Made in Iran.''

He also showed us the earth penetrators. Before we went to Iraq, we 
were in Kuwait at the base from which a lot of our equipment has come 
back out of Iraq for repair or disposition, and I say ''disposition'' 
because some of it has been so devastated by the explosion of these 
weapons smuggled in from Iran that there is nothing much left of them. 
What was so impressive--or depressive--to see was to see the biggest, 
heaviest tank in the world, an Abrams tank, blown apart by these things 
as if it were a stick of dynamite in a tin can. The force and the 
destructive capability was almost beyond belief. We saw examples of 
that in General Odierno's office--a canister about this big with a 
concave shape in the middle that he said is the shaped charge that 
explodes up into the tank or the humvee or whatever the military 
vehicle is and devastates it. In any event, they have no doubt 
whatsoever that this equipment which is killing American troops is 
coming from Iran.

The Department of Defense report to Congress entitled ''Measuring 
Stability and Security in Iraq'' that was just released on September 18 
of this year states:




 Most of the explosives and ammunition used by these groups 


 are provided by the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard 


 Corps--Quds Force. For the period of June through the end of 


 August, the Explosively Formed Penetrator events--


The equipment to which I just referred--



 are projected to rise by 39 percent over the period of March 


 through May.


There is a very interesting story in Time magazine, a recent issue, 
quoting a former CIA explosive expert who still works in Iraq as saying 
that these explosively formed projectiles we are finding in Iran, that:




 The Iranians are making them. End of story.


His argument is that only a state is capable of manufacturing these 
EFPs. In other words, these are manufactured by people officially 
connected with the government. They have access to the equipment and 
material and technology to make them. It is a complicated process that 
is involved in the making of the weapons I described.

Incidentally, this same individual is convinced that the IRGC is 
helping Iraqi Shia militias sight in their mortars on the Green Zone, 
helping them to make sure they actually land on the Green Zone:




 The way they're dropping them in, in neat grids, tells me 


 all I need to know that the Shi'a are getting help. And 


 there's no doubt it's Iranian, the Islamic Revolutionary 


 Guard Corps.


The investigations into these particular attacks, incidentally, were 
also discussed in an August 2005 Time report about an Iranian operative 
who headed a network of insurgents created, again, by the Islamic 
Revolutionary Guard Corps and that they began introducing these EFPs 
into the country at the beginning of that year. Abu Mustafa al-
Sheibani, an Iranian operative who headed a network of insurgents 
created by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, introduced the EFPs 
into the country in early 2007. U.S. military sources claimed to have 
captured EFPs that displayed the hallmarks of Iranian-manufactured 
weaponry.

This is all IRGC. This is the entity which would be declared the 
terrorist group under our amendment.

Ray Takehy, of the Council on Foreign Relations, recently said this--
I am speaking of the IRGC:




 They are heavily involved in everything from 


 pharmaceuticals to telecommunications and pipelines--even the 


 new Imam Khomeini Airport and a great deal of smuggling.


I am going on to quote him:




 Many of the front companies engaged in procuring nuclear 


 technology are owned and run by the Revolutionary Guards. 


 They're developing along the lines of the Chinese military, 


 which is involved in many business enterprises. It's a huge 


 business conglomeration.


This makes the point Senator Lieberman made before--that this 
Revolutionary Guard Corps is deeply involved in economic activity. They 
rely on financing for a lot of their activity. It is this vulnerability 
which causes us to believe that if they are listed as a state-sponsored 
terrorist group, we can, through the use of the sanctions that are 
available to us, inhibit and impede and ultimately stop their activity.

The Revolutionary Guard Corps plays a key role in the military 
industries in Iran. According to Anthony Cordesman, who is a 
distinguished expert in this area and who is currently with the Center 
for Strategic and International Studies, they have been involved in the 
attempted acquisition of nuclear weapons and surface-to-surface 
missiles, among other things.

Interestingly, also, the unanimously passed U.N. Security Council 
resolutions sanctioning Iran have listed several IRGC entities as being 
involved in Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile activities.

Finally, the UNSCR resolutions list high-ranking IRGC personnel for 
their involvement in these programs, including the deputy commander of 
the IRGC, the chief of the IRGC joint staff, the commanders of IRGC 
ground forces, the commander of the IRGC Navy, the commander of the 
Basij Resistance Force, the commander of the Quds Force, and the Deputy 
Interior Minister for Security Affairs, who is also an IRGC officer.

I note that these resolutions, 1737 and 1747, which were immediately 
implemented by our European partners, have not yet been fully 
implemented by our own Treasury Department.

I cite all of this evidence and these quotations to simply make the 
point that there is absolutely no doubt that it is the IRGC that is 
involved in these activities against our American forces and is 
responsible for their deaths in Iraq. It is the IRGC that needs to be 
named to the Specially Designated Global Terrorist list. I misspoke 
before and said the state-sponsored list. I meant the Specially 
Designated Global Terrorist list.

By being so listed, we can employ our financial and immigration 
sanctions,


which could include them potentially blocking assets and even the 
prosecution of supporters who would provide funding to them. It could 
also involve refusal of visas and deportations of members. It would 
allow us to block the assets--in the United States--of any foreign 
company doing business with them, in effect, cutting them out of 
American markets.

Any lesser sanctions, such as focusing on the Quds Force, would not 
in any way solve the problem. That is like the hit men for the Mafia; 
you have to get to the Mafia.

We cannot settle for symbolism. This is serious. As I said, finally--
and this is my last point--our resolution should not be read as an 
authorization for the use of force. I think we might even be changing a 
couple words in it to make that crystal clear. That was not our 
intention. To the extent that anybody might try to use that as an 
excuse for not supporting it, you will not have that excuse. We took 
out a couple of phrases that were pointed out as potentially offering 
that degree of support. This is not such an authorization for the use 
of military action. This is designed to prevent that. So if your 
concern is that we might ultimately be forced--or some people might 
believe we might be forced--to take action against Iran, and you want 
to void that result, this kind of economic sanction is within our power 
as Americans. We don't have to rely upon anybody else in the world to 
do it; we can do that. We know it can hurt them, and it goes to the 
entity causing harm to our forces and, therefore, we believe it is an 
appropriate action for the administration to take.

This would put the Senate on record as urging the administration to 
take this action as soon as possible, so we can end the actions of the 
IRGC.

I compliment my colleague from Connecticut again for his leadership 
and sponsorship of the resolution. I hope tomorrow we will vote on it 
and our colleagues will be supportive of it.