# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `8c59308f9c4764399051d6af6192f99c`
`Mr. TANNER — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. TANNER. Mr. Speaker, I understand this or any administration's 
defensive posture when it comes to criticism of policy. And I 
understand the members of his party feeling the need to defend it. This 
interim report, ordinarily, I would be one who would wait until 
September. But this interim report that shows an appalling lack of 
progress on the political front in Iraq leads me to this conclusion.

I was on active duty for 4 years during Vietnam, and I went down to 
Vietnam Wall the other night; 50-something thousand dead American names 
down there. We have now, 3,500-plus dead American names on the Iraq 
wall.

And what was true then, to me, is true now. And General Petraeus 
himself said it not long ago when he said, military action is 
necessary, but any student of history recognizes that no military 
solution to a problem like


Iraq is there. Military action may be necessary, but it is not 
sufficient. There needs to be a political aspect.

The political aspect, as reported in this interim report, shows this: 
Of the 275 members of the Iraqi parliament, over one-third are 
presently boycotting meetings. Over one-third of the ministers are 
boycotting the meetings. Two years after the Iraqi elections, the 
government there is dysfunctional.

Now just listen to General Petraeus's words. We have to have a 
political aspect. And this present strategy, whether the surge works or 
not, is beside the point. These people are unwilling or unable to come 
together, after 2 years of a government, to work together to build any 
kind of civil society that we can support.

I think that it is now time, with this interim report and the lack of 
political progress there, to send a message. Nobody's talking about 
precipitous withdrawal. What we are talking about is this Congress 
engaging with this administration to support the troops and help them 
from this morass.