---
---

# FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `8c6f0d81c91bf0d51da62c48f715ae6c`
`Mr. SERRANO — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker. I rise today to express my support for the 
final passage of H.J. Res. 20, a joint funding resolution to provide 
continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2007. Let me be clear, 
although we have been able to take care of some of the most significant 
shortfalls, this is not a perfect funding resolution. This is also not 
the process that we would have preferred, because, as we all know, the 
funding for fiscal year 2007 should have been completed during the 
109th session of Congress under the Republican majority.

With respect to the agencies included within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee, a bi-partisan 
attempt was made to address the most pressing needs. For example:

SBA disaster loans will receive $114 million for administrative 
costs.

SBA Salaries and expenses will receive an additional $17.7 million.

The District of Columbia will receive additional funds for public 
safety programs and $20 million for public transportation.

Treasury will receive an additional $26.6 million for high-priority 
anti-terror and financial intelligence analyst activities.

Judiciary will receive an additional $179.1 million to avoid 
furloughs and support critical functions.

OPM Retirement Systems Modernization will receive $13 million.

National Archives will receive $7.7 million in additional funding for 
the Electronic Records Archive and $3 million for repairs relating to 
the flooding of Archives headquarters.

Many important language provisions were also included in this 
resolution such as a continuation of resources to help rural 
communities, schools, and libraries afford telecommunications and 
information services. Without this language, funding would have to be 
cut or Universal Service fees would have to increase.

I was disappointed that we were unable to address the serious issue 
of privatized debt collection by the Internal Revenue Service, a 
practice that many Members have raised objections to continuing. I had 
also hoped to be able to address the HAVA funding that some states, 
including New York, may lose because of their inability to secure 
voting machines within the designated time frame. In addition, language 
provisions enacted in previous appropriations bills placing 
restrictions on how the District of Columbia is able to spend its own 
budget are, unfortunately, continued in this resolution.

However, I do intend to vote in favor of this Continuing Resolution. 
As I stated earlier, it is not perfect, but it is the best that we 
could do with the funds that we had. Beyond the immediate Financial 
Services agency issues, there was an attempt to write a resolution that 
addressed our nation's highest priority needs. Veterans Healthcare will 
receive $32.3 billion, which is an increase of $3.6 billion above the 
2006 funding level. Defense Health Programs will receive $21.2 billion, 
an increase of $1.2 billion to provide care for our service members and 
their families. Providing health care for our veterans and military 
personnel is the right thing to do. Significant numbers of our veterans 
are now returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and we have an obligation 
to provide funding for their health care needs.

I was pleased that additional funding was provided for Pell grants. 
This increased funding will help over 5.3 million of our students help 
to pay for ever increasing college costs. This Continuing Resolution 
also provided additional dollars for Head Start, a program that has 
proven its effectiveness. The National Institutes of Health received 
additional funds to support 500 more research project grants.

Our community health centers were allocated an increase of $206.9 
million to allow for the expansion or creation of over 300 health 
centers. These centers provide important health care services 
throughout the United States, and this funding will be utilized for 
priority health care needs. Ryan White CARE grants were increased to 
bring them to the authorized level. Finally, this resolution addresses 
important section 8 and public housing needs in our communities. All of 
these budget increases are a part of a carefully crafted resolution 
that attempts to address some of our nation's greatest needs.

I would urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.J. Res 20 so that it 
can go to the Senate and we can complete our work before our current 
resolution expires on February 15th. We will be receiving the 
President's 2008 budget next week, and as a Congress it is time to move 
forward and work on the 2008 funding needs for our government.