# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `8c70d932195bfacff6508ec1f5b7df35`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today with regard to the importance 
of international development efforts in Afghanistan, as well as the 
role of women in that same country. Much of the public debate around 
Afghanistan is focused on troop levels, especially in Washington. This 
is a critical decision on troops, but a focus only on troops ignores so 
many of the crucial elements that will contribute to our strategy in 
Afghanistan; namely, what should be done to help promote democratic 
institutions. That is one question we have to spend more time on. How 
can we accelerate the training of the Afghan security forces? What 
impact does Pakistan have on this conflict? I have spoken about these 
issues in depth. I want to directly address the formidable development 
challenges before the Afghan people and what this means for the 
security environment.

Let me be clear. We are not conducting development in Afghanistan for 
development's sake. Promoting development has a direct national 
security impact and, if done right, can result in a safer environment 
for coalition troops, as well as Afghan security forces, and it can 
ultimately contribute to stability in the region.

Before discussing these issues, I want to applaud the extraordinary 
efforts of Senator Kerry, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee, to seek a resolution to the Afghan election crisis. As we 
all saw from news reports, his tireless work over the past few days to 
support the democratic process in Afghanistan renewed the chance for 
much needed legitimacy in the electoral process. I hope the second 
round of the elections will be free from violence and the terrible 
fraud that was seen in August.

I also want to recognize the work of the Electoral Complaints 
Commission, which meticulously rooted out corruption in the election 
process. Those guardians of Afghan democracy should be commended for 
their work, and I trust they will perform equally well on November 7 
and the days following.

The development changes facing Afghanistan are formidable. Destroyed 
by 30 years of war, Afghanistan is the third poorest country in the 
world. Large swaths of the country don't have access to roads, 
electricity, water, or prospects for jobs.

As I discussed on the floor last week, there are some positive 
aspects of the development process already in Afghanistan. There are 
now 6 million children in school, one-third of whom are girls. Basic 
health care now reaches more of the country than ever before. The 
public health care system has made strides in this regard to have 
organizations such as the Pennsylvania-based Cure International, which 
is working to train doctors. The economy has grown at 10 percent a year 
in aggregate terms, and mobile telephones are starting to connect more 
and more people across the country. When this process began in 2002, we 
started at zero. We should not be content with the pace of reform in 
Afghanistan, but we should acknowledge that some progress has been 
made.

While the debate in Washington revolves around the prospect of a 
troop


surge, not much has been said about the civilian surge to assist in 
development and diplomatic efforts. I support this important 
initiative, but we must encourage the administration to match this 
international surge with an Afghan surge. We must increase our efforts 
to build the skills and capacity of Afghans to develop Afghanistan. We 
must constantly work to instill the idea that Afghanistan's prospects 
lie not with the efforts of the international community--though we 
should do our part, and we have and we will--but with the talent and 
the will of the Afghan people. It is not only the best way to conduct 
development, it is in fact the only way it has ever been truly 
successful.

The strong roots of an Afghan-led development process have been years 
in the making. The Government's National Solidarity Program has worked 
to develop the ability of Afghan communities to identify, plan, 
implement, and monitor their own development projects. This model of 
community-based development is essential to building civic ownership 
for the country's future. The World Bank reports that more than 20,000 
communities now have local government consultative institutions or 
community development councils. Afghanistan's Ministry of Rural 
Rehabilitation and Development oversees this effort, which is financed 
by a consortium of international donors. It employs more than 4,000 
Afghan nationals and has developed the skills of 600,000 Community 
Development Council members across the country in planning and 
supervising projects and managing finances transparently. More than 80 
percent of the labor has been provided by communities themselves, 
generating wages for the poor and cutting in half the cost of their 
projects.

While substantial progress has been made, the National Solidarity 
Plan faces three main challenges: First, the security environment is 
the biggest hurdle to rapid development. Second, the international 
community can play a helpful role in supporting the government's 
efforts to ensure that these structural gains are sustainable. The 
democratic process has begun to take hold in these communities but will 
require years to grow strong roots. Finally, the Community Development 
Councils will need regular assistance in building capacity. As local 
communities start to work together on multivillage projects, they will 
need technical help to implement the projects.

Afghanistan's development infrastructure is important and represents 
an important effort to mesh traditional community-based decisionmaking 
structures with the official governing structure. In order for these 
bodies to work properly, there must be an important focus on the 
provision of basic services, irrigation, access to transportation and 
the construction of roads, basic health care and education, and access 
to drinking water and electricity.

Much of the development work on Afghanistan must take place in an 
environment of extreme insecurity. USAID works in countries all over 
the world, but its impressive staff doesn't usually contend with the 
small arms fire, roadside bombs, and the militant attacks that they 
confront in Afghanistan. In the most crucial regions of Afghanistan, 
along the Pashtun belt in the east and south, USAID must operate 
alongside the U.S. military, the State Department, and the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture in provincial reconstruction teams. The 
military forces provide protection for the aid workers and diplomats as 
they seek to implement their projects. This configuration is clearly 
not ideal but has allowed for some development progress and has also 
played a critical role in the overall counterinsurgency effort.

While there has been significant funding provided for development 
efforts, not enough of the funding is actually reaching the Afghan 
people. Lately, international organizations have been criticized for 
high consultant fees and overhead costs associated with doing business 
in Afghanistan. Some nongovernmental organizations, so-called NGOs, and 
contractors are performing excellent work in extraordinary 
circumstances in Afghanistan. While much of the cost associated with 
their efforts is understandable given the high pricetag associated with 
security and paying quality staff to live in Afghanistan, I do believe 
that more of an effort should be made and must be made to work directly 
with the Afghan organizations where possible to implement development 
programs. This will likely mean an increase in USAID staff to oversee 
implementation of the programs and assure accountability. This would 
also serve in rebuilding USAID's capability to implement programs 
instead of relying upon contractors. Developing the capacity of USAID 
is long overdue. I want to acknowledge Ambassador Holbrooke's work in 
this regard and support his efforts to deliver more of our assistance 
directly to the Afghan people.

International development experts have highlighted the critical role 
played by women in the security, stability, and development of 
Afghanistan. We cannot expect progress on any of these fronts if half 
of the population is ignored. As I have said before, we have seen 
progress on women's and girls' political participation, education, and 
health since the fall of the Taliban. However, women are still largely 
excluded from public life and economic participation, and they remain 
targets of endemic violence.


We must support the Afghan Government's efforts to empower women and 
ensure their right to work in both public service and at community 
levels. Promoting the economic participation of women will pay long-
term dividends in terms of education, health, GDP, and even the 
security and stability of their country.

International development experts in the region have noted that women 
are more likely than men to invest their extra savings and earnings in 
their families, specifically toward much needed education and health 
care, assisting women, whether through small grants, access to credit, 
or skills training as a potential to improve the lives of the entire 
household, including those susceptible to be drawn in by the Taliban.

Military strategists have focused on this important nexus of 
advancing development for women and security. In a society where young 
men are loathe to make decisions against their mother's wishes, 
convincing mothers that their children have future prospects beyond 
joining a militant group is a key part of our strategy. By working with 
women on a host of development issues, international and Afghan groups 
can have a clear and convincing impact on the security environment 
where our soldiers are operating today.

In closing, the security challenges in Afghanistan grow more acute by 
the day. We are rightly focused on the question of troop deployment and 
how to stem the tide of militancy across the country. But as we debate 
the merits of our presence in Afghanistan and our efforts to bring 
stability, we must fully account for the developmental shortcomings in 
the country. This, as well as the establishment of durable democratic 
institutions, will most likely be the ultimate determining factor in 
resolving this conflict.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.