---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8c73d473cad53bf97014a35369a348b0`
`Mr. CARDIN — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, first, let me concur with my colleague, 
Senator Tester, in support of the amendment being offered by Senators 
Webb and McCaskill and which Senator Levin also spoke on a little 
earlier, and that is the need for us to have this independent 
Commission look at what has happened in Iraq as far as the U.S. 
taxpayer dollars. I am proud that our new Members of the Senate have 
made this a priority. I think it is important that the taxpayers have 
confidence that the money we appropriate will be spent appropriately, 
and that has not been the case in the reconstruction of Iraq.















 Amendment No. 3035


I also take the floor to speak about an amendment offered by Senator 
Kennedy that will be voted on later. I spoke last week about hate 
crimes in America, and I talked about what is happening in our own 
communities. I spoke about an episode in College Park, MD, and we are 
all familiar with what happened in Jena, LA. The FBI has indicated that 
the number of hate crimes reported is unacceptably high in all 
communities in America today.

Today, we are going to have an opportunity to do something about 
that. We are going to have an opportunity to support S. 1105, the 
Matthew Shepard Act. I am proud to be a cosponsor of that bill, and I 
thank the senior Senator from Massachusetts, Mr. Kennedy, for bringing 
forward this issue. We will have a chance on this very important bill 
to speak about the moral commitment of our own country and what we 
stand for as a nation. This is an issue which we need to deal with 
because it speaks to what type of people we are in this country, that 
we will not tolerate hate crime activities.

This legislation gives the Department of Justice jurisdiction over 
violent crimes where a perpetrator picks the victim on the basis of 
race, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, or disability.

Now, why do we give the Department of Justice jurisdiction in these 
areas? Well, we all know, first, that it will make it clear this is a 
national priority. Secondly, the Department of Justice is in a far 
better position, in many cases, than local law enforcement working by 
itself to successfully complete an investigation.

This legislation gives additional tools to local law enforcement so 
they can get their job done. It gives them training dollars. It gives 
them other resources and assistance so that, in many cases, they can 
get the type of information necessary to pursue these cases 
successfully.

It is what is needed in partnership with local government. But there 
are some States that are unable or unwilling to move forward with hate 
crime activities. Only 31 States and the District of Columbia include 
sexual orientation or disability as a basis for hate crimes 
prosecution. So we have voids in the Nation and this gives us an 
opportunity to move forward.

This legislation is bipartisan. We have had support from both sides 
of the aisle to make it clear that in America we will not tolerate hate 
crimes activities. It strengthens the current law. It removes the 
limitation in the current law, the Federal law, that says you


only can move forward if it would involve a protected activity such as 
voting or attending school. That restriction is removed, so that we 
have more opportunities for the Federal Government to be of assistance 
in prosecuting hate crime activities. As I have indicated before, it 
includes sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or disability as 
categories of hate crime activities.

I am very pleased it has broad support from many organizations and 
groups around the Nation, including the Federal Law Enforcement 
Officers Association, the International Association of Chiefs of 
Police, the National District Attorneys Association, and the National 
Sheriffs' Association. It also enjoys support from civil rights groups 
including the Anti-Defamation League, Human Rights Campaign, Leadership 
Conference on Civil Rights, and the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People. The U.S. Conference of Mayors also 
supports this legislation. It is also supported by the Consortium for 
Citizens with Disabilities, including the Maryland Disability Law 
Center.

There is a broad group that supports this legislation because they 
know it is needed. They know we need to do a better job, and they know 
it is time for this Congress to act. Hate crimes are un-American. When 
they happen, we are all diminished and we have a responsibility to do 
something about it. It is time for the Senate to act.

I thank Senator Kennedy for bringing this forward. I urge my 
colleagues to support it. The House has already taken similar action. 
It is time this legislation be submitted to the President.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.