---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `8c742c26886a2e7d55115b7d53fc2957`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today, we consider nominations for lifetime 
appointments to the Federal bench, including Judge Norman Randy Smith 
to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Judge Smith was 
nominated to a seat on the Ninth Circuit designated a judicial 
emergency by the Administrative Office of the Courts. Judge Smith's 
nomination easily could have been confirmed in the last Congress--and 
the emergency addressed many months ago--had the Bush administration 
chosen the common-sense approach it has now followed of nominating 
Judge Smith--who is from Idaho--to Idaho's seat on the Ninth Circuit.

Instead, the President picked a fight by insisting on nominating 
Judge Smith to a California seat on the Ninth Circuit. Judge Smith had 
been nominated to fill the seat last occupied by Judge Stephen Trott, 
an appointee from California who made a personal decision to move to 
Idaho. I know of no precedent for shifting a circuit seat based on a 
judge's personal decision to change his or her personal residence. That 
generated opposition from the California Senators and created an 
impasse. I supported the California Senators, as I had Senators 
Sarbanes and Mikulski in a similar circumstance when this President 
sought to fill a Maryland seat on the Fourth Circuit with someone from 
Virginia.

I have tried for some time to get the President to redesignate the 
Smith nomination and nominate him to fill the Idaho vacancy. At long 
last, the President has done the right thing. The White House finally 
changed course and the President nominated Judge Smith for the Idaho 
seat on the Ninth Circuit. I thank the President for finally doing the 
right thing.

With the cooperation of the Senators from California and the other 
Members of the Judiciary Committee, we were able to avoid having a 
hearing on Judge Smith's nomination in this Congress and to expedite 
his consideration, now that he has been designated for the Idaho 
vacancy. We were able to report Judge Smith's nomination last Thursday. 
Today, at long last, Senator Craig and Senator Crapo and the people of 
Idaho will have a judge on this important court from their home State.

We have worked hard since convening this Congress to make significant 
progress in our consideration of judicial nominations. At our first 
executive business meeting, the Judiciary Committee reported out five 
judicial nominations little more than 2 weeks after they were sent to 
us. Three of these were for vacancies determined by the Administrative 
Office of the U.S. Courts to be judicial emergencies. All five were 
among those returned to the President without Senate action at the end 
of last year when Republican Senators objected to proceeding with 
certain of the President's judicial nominees in September and December 
last year. All five were confirmed only 3 weeks after they were 
nominated.

Last week, we reported another five nominations, including the 
nominations we consider today. We reported nominees from the home 
States of Senator Specter and Senator Grassley and I want to thank 
Senator Casey and Senator Brown for expediting their consideration of 
nominees from their home States and approving them so quickly after 
taking office. I have worked cooperatively with Members from both sides 
of the aisle on our Committee, and in the Senate, to consider quickly 
and report 10 judicial nominations so far this year, allowing us to 
fill vacancies and improve the administration of justice in our 
Nation's Federal courts.

With the five confirmations last week we have confirmed more of 
President Bush's nominations in the 18 months I have served as 
Judiciary Committee Chairman than in the more than two years when 
Senator Hatch chaired the Committee with a Republican Senate majority 
or during the entire last Congress with a Republican Senate majority.

With Judge Smith's confirmation today, we will have confirmed a 
nomination to one of the Nation's important circuit courts little more 
than a month after the Republicans agreed to resolution allowing the 
Senate to organize. That is more than the total of President Clinton's 
nominations to circuit court vacancies confirmed by the Republican-
controlled Senate during the entire 1996 session. Today, with this one 
confirmation we will surpass the Republican total for an entire session 
of the Congress.

Last week, we also held the first judicial nominations hearing of the 
new Congress and considered three more nominees, two of whom are 
nominated to fill judicial emergency vacancies. We held that hearing on 
February 6. When a Republican chaired the Committee in 1999 and there 
was a Democratic President, the first hearing on a judicial nominee was 
not held until June 16. We could have postponed this hearing because it 
was at the same time as the Senators briefing on the new National 
Intelligence Estimate about the deteriorating situation in Iraq. As I 
did after 9/11, and after the Senate buildings were shut down by the 
anthrax letters, I chose to go forward with the nominations hearing.

I know some on the other side of the aisle have tried to raise a 
scare since I, again, became Chairman of the Judiciary Committee. They 
rant as if the sky is falling and as if we would not proceed on any 
judicial nominations. On the contrary, we have proceeded promptly and 
efficiently.

I have long urged the President to fill vacancies with consensus 
nominees. After this week's confirmations, according to the 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts there will be 51 judicial 
vacancies, 24 of which have been deemed to be judicial emergencies. Of 
those 24 judicial emergency vacancies, the President has yet to send us 
nominees for 17 of them. That means two-thirds of the judicial 
emergency vacancies are without a nominee from the President.

We will continue moving forward efficiently as long as the President 
sends us qualified, consensus nominees.



















iraq
