# OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN GOVERNMENT
## `8c777a4c7d8b760e37ca95b51abe13e5`
`Ms. SUTTON — 14 March 2007`

---


Ms. SUTTON. I thank the distinguished gentleman and both of you, the 
gentleman from Minnesota as well, who point out so eloquently the 
responsibility that we have when we put forth a budget.

I am honored as a freshman Member of this Congress to have the honor 
to serve on the Budget Committee, and while I am grateful to be there 
because we have the chance to realign the budget that came to us from 
the administration, I must say that when it came over, when it failed 
to provide the resources that we need for veterans health care and 
asked our veterans to pay more for their health care, it was a great 
disappointment.

But the reality is, because we are in a fiscal mess, because of years 
of irresponsibility, failure to provide oversight and accountability, 
even though we have limited resources because of that, I know that this 
class and this Congress is committed to realigning the money that we do 
have to ensure that we do, Mr. Speaker, that we do provide our troops 
what they need when we send them into any mission on our behalf and 
that they have what they need after they return.

Our commitment to ensuring oversight and accountability is going to 
be an ongoing mission because it is an ongoing responsibility. It is, 
in fact, the very essence of what our congressional duty is, to be that 
check, to ensure that which we enact and that which is done from the 
administration comports with the needs of the American people, and we 
will do so in an honest and open way.

We have heard about some of the steps that we have already taken, the 
first step, to restore trust, openness and accountability in 
Washington. This week, we are going to take additional actions, and in 
fact, we have already taken some here on this floor today.

In this week, we have scheduled consideration or acted already on 
whistleblower reform. We are going to deal with that issue. We are 
strengthening the protection for Federal whistleblowers to prevent 
retaliation against those who report wrongdoing, waste, fraud and 
abuse. This is so essential to making sure that the safeguards that we 
need will result in the kind of a government and the policies and the 
contracting and the work of the people will be of such a caliber that 
we can be proud, and more importantly, the American people can be 
proud.

We are also providing for more timely disclosure of government 
documents, another good measure not only of good government but of 
accountability, that will pay huge dividends and allow us to ensure 
that we are acting wisely and responsibly.

We are also nullifying a 2001 presidential executive order and 
restoring public access to presidential records. The public has a right 
to know the public's business. This is another measure to ensure that.

As we talk about the need to fund veterans health care, how can we 
fail to mention at the same time we fail to meet that need, we have 
seen gross excesses of lack of oversight and accountability and money, 
literally being lost in Iraq due to a failure of proper oversight of 
those we contract with. Limits on how long Federal no-bid contracts can 
last will be enacted this week by this new Congress. We will minimize 
the use of no-bid contracts and direct agencies to justify any such 
contracts if they are awarded.

These are all important measures that we will take this week in order 
to


continue to fulfill our commitment to the American people to take this 
country into a new direction, one that will work for them and one that 
has their interests at heart.

As we come to the conclusion of our hour, I would just like to give 
my colleagues another opportunity to report what they would like to 
report in these closing moments to the American people. I yield to my 
good friend from Minnesota (Mr. Walz).