# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `8c7f47feb111d706843b788205d43172`
`Mr. OBEY — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, for purposes of debate only, I yield the 
customary 30 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from California 
(Mr. Lewis), and pending that I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, this issue before us is the kind of issue that the 
Congress was designed to deal with. This Congress exists today because 
in 1215, almost 800 years ago, our forefathers many times removed, by 
adopting the Magna Carta, established for the first time in the 
English-speaking world the principle that the monarch was not 
unilaterally sovereign.

That expression wound up being turned into a reality for our country 
in 1789, when the Constitution of the United States was adopted. That 
Constitution created three coequal branches of government. It gave this 
body, the legislative body, the Congress, the ability to declare war. 
It certainly gave us the obligation to oversee the conduct of war. It 
gave us the obligation to oversee the use of taxpayers' money in 
dealing not just with war, but with every other issue as well.

The President yesterday vetoed the legislation now before us, which, 
for the first time, had he chosen to use it, would have given him the 
opportunity to have an exit strategy for a war that has brought 
incredible frustration and agony not just on the people of Iraq, but 
the people of our own country.

Now, the President has told the public that he is ''the decider.'' 
Well, he is a very important decider, but he is not the only decider in 
a democratic form of government. The ultimate deciders are our 
constituents, and we are elected to speak on their behalf and to 
participate in that decisionmaking. That is what the Congress did when 
it passed this legislation through both Houses.

I regret very much that the President did not use this legislation to 
establish a bipartisan approach to the war which has plagued us now for 
more than 4 years.

As we all know, yesterday was the fourth anniversary of the 
President's landing on that aircraft carrier under the banner ''Mission 
Accomplished'' and telling us that our troops had fulfilled their 
mission. Indeed, they had;


our troops won the war in Iraq, but it is the White House, in its 
pursuit of its Iraqi policy, it is the civilian leadership of the 
Pentagon which systematically, especially in the early days, ignored 
the judgment of the military that has brought us to the chaos that we 
see in Iraq today.

Now, the legislation before us attempted to do a number of things. It 
attempted to meet the financial needs of the budget in supplying our 
troops with everything that they need. Secondly, it attempted to hold 
the administration accountable and to hold the Iraqi Government 
accountable for the actions that they have taken. And thirdly, it was 
meant to provide the beginnings of an exit strategy from that civil 
war. The President has decided to veto that legislation, and the 
question before us now is whether we will override that veto or not.

The President said in his veto message yesterday that we had all too 
many so-called nonrelated items in this bill, along with funding for 
the troops in Iraq. I don't believe that the American people would 
agree with the President that $1.8 billion for veterans health care, 
$3.3 billion for defense health programs, $2.2 billion for additional 
Homeland Security initiatives, $6.9 billion for Katrina recovery, $663 
million to protect the country from the ravages of a potential world 
flu pandemic, or $650 million to prevent kids from losing health 
insurance is unnecessary funding. I think the American public 
recognizes each of those as a legitimate expenditure of public funds.

I also think that the President has focused so much attention on 
those items simply to divert public attention from the fact that this 
bill is first, last and foremost about the war. It is about how we get 
our troops out of the war. It is how we send a message to the Iraqi 
politicians that our troops cannot be expected to accomplish the 
compromises that only they can reach if that war is to be brought to a 
conclusion.

Mr. Speaker, I would urge every Member of this House, regardless of 
party, to vote to override the President's veto.

And I would point out to the President that we already have provided 
for two major compromises in this legislation. When we first 
established the Murtha principles for unit readiness, the White House 
objected. And so we said, all right, we'll change that, we will give 
the White House a waiver. When the White House objected to the 
timetable that we laid out for withdrawal of our troops from that civil 
war, again we compromised, and we said we will keep as hard deadlines 
the deadlines by which we must begin that process of redeploying 
troops, but we made the end date for the actual withdrawal of our 
troops from combat in a civil war, we made those dates extremely 
flexible in response to the President's views. So we have already 
compromised on two very major items in this bill.

Now that the President has laid down his veto, it seems to me that he 
has an obligation to lay on the table what compromises he is willing to 
make in order to bring us together in pursuit of an exit strategy from 
a war that we should never have gotten into in the first place.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. LEWIS OF California. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield 4 minutes 
to the gentlelady from Florida.