---
---

# THE ACCOUNTABILITY CONGRESS: THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `8c7fa07fe5534d87d8ab9239167cb185`
`Mr. YARMUTH — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. YARMUTH. I thank the gentleman from Minnesota. And I would also 
like to echo my great respect and admiration for our colleague from 
Pennsylvania who has spoken so eloquently on various occasions about 
the costs being paid and the sacrifices being made by our great men and 
women overseas, and how much that means to them. And I think this 
Congress has responded to those sympathies and those emotions in what 
we have done to actually support our men and women, our veterans, our 
wounded warriors who have come back from these very troublesome spots 
in the world. And we have done it with more than words, and that is 
what is important.

In the continuing resolution, as we all know, the prior Congress did 
not pass many of the appropriations bills. They left it up to us to try 
and fund most of the government, and we responded in the best way 
possible: we passed a continuing resolution. But we didn't just pass a 
sustaining fund because we recognized that we needed to embellish those 
funds to take care of our veterans and the increased costs that are 
being incurred by this war we are fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. So 
what did we do?

On January 31 when we passed the continuing resolution, we added $3.6 
billion to take care of veterans health care. $3.6 billion. We 
recognized not only our moral obligation to our veterans but also the 
promise that we made to them. This government, the people of this 
country made a promise to those people who volunteered to fight for 
their country that we would take care of them after they left the 
service, we would take care of their health care. This Congress 
recognized and realized and responded to that commitment that we had 
made to them. Unlike prior Congresses, we increased funding by $3.6 
billion.

But we weren't finished yet. When we passed the supplemental, we 
didn't just give the President what he wanted to perpetuate this war, 
which many of us want to leave, but we said we have men and women who 
are coming back who are wounded, who are seriously wounded. As we have 
seen in Walter Reed, we weren't taking care of them adequately, we 
weren't responding to our commitment to them, our moral obligation to 
them; so we added $1.7 billion more in this supplemental to take care 
of our veterans, to take care of our wounded warriors.


We understand what supporting our troops means, not just when they 
are under fire when they are in the battlefield, but also when they 
come home after they made that sacrifice. We have a commitment to them. 
We have realized that; we have responded. And I think that the American 
people can be confident that our veterans are being well taken care of 
by the 110th Congress and by subsequent Congresses, too.