---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT FIRST CLASS LARRY HAWKS
## `8c92148257db8792e63815d0ec3eb1f5`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 20 April 2009`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise today to honor a brave 
Kentuckian and soldier who has been awarded the Silver Star for valor 
in defense of our country.

SFC Larry Hawks, a native of Edmonson County in my home Commonwealth 
of Kentucky, received our Nation's third highest award for gallantry in 
action against an enemy of the United States. Those rare few who 
receive the Silver Star do so because of their display of selfless 
sacrifice and


unparalleled courage under fire and Sergeant First Class Hawks has 
certainly demonstrated that to his fellow soldiers.

Sergeant First Class Hawks showed his bravery and patriotism to all 
during a 14-hour battle in 115-degree heat while stationed in 
Afghanistan on July 25, 2005. That morning on combat patrol in the 
Oruzgan province, his unit encountered and gave chase to a large number 
of enemy fighters. Our soldiers soon found themselves facing an intense 
volley of fire from machine guns, small arms and rocket-propelled 
grenades.

Without regard for his own safety, Sergeant First Class Hawks came 
out from behind cover to draw and return enemy fire while directing his 
unit into position to more effectively engage the enemy. He also 
directed fire from Apache gunships overhead. He passed up a chance to 
move to a safer position and insisted on staying in the best vantage 
point over the enemy.

''There were times when some of the guys thought that we weren't 
going to make it,'' Sergeant First Class Hawks was quoted as saying 
after the ordeal. ''But I was thinking, you may not, but I am coming 
out of this. That was my whole thought process.''

SFC Larry Hawks's service is continuing proof that there is no finer 
fighting man on the face of the Earth than the American soldier. 
Accordingly, a ceremony was held last December at the U.S. Army John F. 
Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School, in Fort Bragg, NC, for him 
to receive this honored award.

Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Sergeant 
First Class Hawks for the many sacrifices he has made to our country. 
We Kentuckians are honored to know and be among such heroes.

I also ask unanimous consent that the full article from the 
Brownsville, KY, Edmonson News of March 19, 2009, detailing SFC Larry 
Hawks's service and the actions that led to the awarding of his Silver 
Star, be printed in the Record.