# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8c96176f13e048f8b729c4a0a864157e`
`Mr. WALBERG — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, throughout our Nation's rich history, we 
have reached moments where we arrive at what President Ronald Reagan 
described as a time for choosing. Today is such a day.

This week, the House is asking ourselves a simple question: Will we 
choose to go forward with the resolve and determination needed to win 
the war on terror by supporting our brave troops, or will we retreat 
and wait for the fight to return to American soil?

It was Winston Churchill who once said, ''Never believe any war will 
be smooth or easy or that anyone who embarks on a strange voyage can 
measure the tides and hurricanes he will encounter.''

With this in mind, I acknowledge that the war in Iraq is not going as 
well as we all had hoped or wanted. Mistakes have been made. Thousands 
of precious lives have been lost, and there are likely more tough times 
to come.

My wife and I pray for the men and women in uniform and grieve for 
every loss of life and injuries inflicted on these heroes who proudly 
serve our Nation. I, as much as anyone else speaking today, want this 
war to be over. But this resolution essentially tells these soldiers to 
give up because the cause they have nobly served is no longer worth the 
courage and vigor necessary, and protecting the American people and 
keeping terrorists off American soil are no longer national priorities.

As Americans we are reluctant warriors, but throughout history, when 
our troops have been in harm's way, America has supported them and made 
certain our troops have the necessary resources to accomplish their 
mission.

In a cynical way, this resolution says America has already lost and 
the leaders of our country no longer believe our troops can achieve 
victory. It tells other nations that we are unreliable as an ally, and 
they can no longer count on us in times of distress.

My son proudly served in the Army. And during this time of service, I 
got to know many of his peers in uniform. I am not prepared to say to 
these men and women, nor to the young man fallen in battle, that I will 
go to right after this speech at Walter Reed Hospital, that I support 
you but I don't support the mission you serve, and the blood you shed 
on the battlefield was in vain.

I am not prepared to call for a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq that 
will leave the Nation ripe for terrorism and ultimately bring the war 
on terror back to American soil.

My neighbors in south central Michigan and across the country deserve 
to be protected from enemies of freedom. And they ought to have a 
Congress that doesn't shirk its responsibilities to soldiers and 
sailors and airmen sent into harm's way to ensure this war is fought 
off American soil.

So we come to this time of choosing today. Are we willing to abandon 
our troops as they implement the new strategy based on quantifiable 
goals and measurable results? I hope not.

I challenge my colleagues to honor America's brave men and women 
serving in the name of freedom and oppose this resolution of retreat.