---
---

# None
## `8c9b3de506aa3e7c0694a15f13aaf422`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the Annual 
Mayoral


Salute to Veterans which has been presented for the past five years by 
Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon and the Phoenix Military Veterans Commission. 
The Salute this year on Tuesday, April 8, 2008, will focus on women 
veterans. This is appropriate given the rising numbers of women now 
serving in the armed forces and their wide-ranging and significant 
contributions to our nation's military efforts.

Women have served honorably in every war and conflict in American 
history. Many paid the ultimate price in defense of our nation. We all 
know the story of Army PFC Lori Piestewa, an Arizona native who became 
the first servicewoman to be killed in Operation Iraqi Freedom and the 
first Native American servicewoman to ever die in battle. In 2005, Sgt. 
Leigh Ann Hester of the Kentucky Army National Guard became the first 
woman to be awarded the Silver Star for close-quarters combat action 
for her role in turning back an ambush on her convoy in Iraq.

Madam Speaker, I want to focus special attention on seven veterans 
from Arizona who are being recognized today as living reminders of the 
honorable service that women in the armed forces have provided in 
overseas war zones from World War II to Operation Iraqi Freedom. Please 
join me in recognizing:

Bettie Lerdall, U.S. Marine Corps, World War II;

Grace Kokesch, U.S. Army, World War II;

Louise Glende, U.S. Navy, Korean War;

Carol Culbertson, U.S. Navy, Vietnam War;

Belinda Blase, U.S. Air Force, Operation Desert Storm;

First Lieutenant Kara C. Larson, Arizona Army National Guard, 
Operation Iraqi Freedom;

Sgt. Rachel L. Trotter, Arizona Army National Guard, Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.

Please join me in recognizing the service of these distinguished 
veterans on this special day.
