---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `8ca15865592d8729ce48eb4610c74d2e`
`Mr. BERMAN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of this amendment 
by my colleague from the Foreign Affairs Committee.

Mr. Chairman, this is a simple amendment. It provides that any 
security commitment, arrangement, or assurance that obligates the 
United States to respond to internal or external threats against Iraq 
must be approved by an act of Congress or by a treaty that receives 
advice and consent.

Mr. Chairman, the United States has many friends around the world, 
including in the Middle East, with whom we have non-legally binding 
arrangement about security. However, legally binding security 
commitments to use the Armed Forces of the United States have only been 
entered into with the approval of Congress. U.S. security commitments 
to NATO and Japan, for example, have been made pursuant to a treaty 
subject to advice and consent with the Senate.

I believe that past precedent should be our guide as to how to deal 
with any legally binding obligation of the United States that would 
commit both the current President and all of his successors to 
defending Iraq. If the President believes this is wise for the country, 
he should not do it alone; it should only be taken with congressional 
approval.

Mr. Chairman, this is not an esoteric or hypothetical situation. This 
past weekend I was in Baghdad with Speaker Pelosi's delegation. It's 
quite clear from our discussions there that the government of Iraq at 
the highest level expects that any strategic framework or other


agreement between the United States and Iraq will include a legally 
binding security commitment that would require the United States to 
respond to threats against Iraq.

This amendment ensures congressional approval and, implicitly, 
congressional oversight of any proposed legally binding commitment to 
Iraq's security. I would hope that all my colleagues, irrespective of 
their political affiliation and their views about the conflict in Iraq, 
would agree that Congress should not be sidelined when it comes to what 
could be a millennial commitment to defend a country in the heart of 
one of the hottest regions on the planet.

I strongly support the amendment.

I yield back the balance of my time.