---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `8cb06a4fea76d91b487e91f6f4d4458d`
`Mr. BOND — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, are we going to bear witness to a conflict 
between Sunnis and Shiites that would spread into a regional war 
throughout the Middle East? Will we sit idly by while a regional 
conflict ensues that would result in the death of thousands of 
civilians? What will happen when the price of oil goes up? Will we see 
radical Islam taking over more parts of the world? Will we hand them 
Iraq on a silver platter? Will we have to again deploy troops to the 
Middle East?

To ignore these considerations and questions simply because they are 
not politically palatable is shortsighted at best and dangerous at the 
worst. Those who are attempting to end the war don't want to talk about 
the fact that the war in Iraq will do anything but end. In fact, it 
will only grow more dangerous.

Mr. President, I suggest that Mr. Kagan had it right. In his article, 
he also said there ought to be a plan B for the Washington Post and 
others who have projected and counted on defeat. What is your plan B if 
General Petraeus's works and you predicted so successfully it won't 
work?

We need to put the money behind our troops, give General Petraeus the 
support for the new plan with money and support that effort underway. 
Our 130,000 to 150,000 American troops and their families at home are 
depending on us. They have a direct stake in this historic event, and I 
believe that fighting is necessary to prevail over evil.

I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.