---
---

# None
## `8cb781dffca40fb82834a7ad661b099c`
`Mr. DURBIN — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts. I 
have been a Senator for a number of years and have visited Iraq and 
Afghanistan on three separate occasions. I try my best to meet with as 
many of our soldiers as possible--but, of course, focus on those from 
Illinois--to sit and eat lunch with them and talk about the Cubs, the 
White Sox, the Bears, the Bulls, the news back home. The thing that 
haunts me--and I thank the Senator from Massachusetts for reminding 
me--the thing that haunts me are the frequent conversations where they 
say: Does anybody know we are still here? Does anybody back home know 
what we are going through? It really is heartbreaking to think that 
these men and women are risking their lives every day while we go about 
our safe, secure, normal, daily routine and how little focus we put on 
this war and the men and women who are fighting it for us and 
particularly those who have given their lives.

We have lost almost 150 soldiers in Illinois. I took an inspiration 
from the Senator from Massachusetts and said I was going to send a note 
to every family in Illinois who loses a soldier. I thought after a year 
or two that task would have been completed. After 5 years, it is not. 
Sadly, in our State and every other State we are still losing lives. 
The fact that the Senator from Massachusetts would take the time to 
come to the floor today as a solemn reminder of what this means to us, 
should mean to us, and what it means to these families is something I 
deeply appreciate.

Last week or so, the New York Times had a front-page story talking 
about the lives that had been lost just last year, with color 
photographs of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines who were 
among the casualties. There were six or eight personal stories of their 
lives. I took the time to read it carefully to try to absorb what was 
happening to these men and women and their families.


I think I can speak for the Senator from Massachusetts. We have cast 
between us thousands of votes on the floor of the Senate, myself in the 
House of Representatives as well. I cannot think of another vote more 
profound and more important than the vote to authorize the invasion of 
Iraq in October 2002. Senator Kennedy and I joined 21 of our colleagues 
in voting against that authorization to go to war. At the time, it was 
not the most popular vote, but it turned out to be the right vote. Not 
to take anything away from these brave men and women who have given so 
much for our country, but this war may be the most fatal foreign policy 
mistake of the modern era, and we continue to pay for it every day in 
American lives and blood and treasure and in our reputation and safety 
in the world.

The fact that the Senator from Massachusetts would take some time--
even a brief period of time--to remind us is something that should be 
done and I am glad is being done. I know this will receive an 
overwhelmingly unanimous vote of support, as it should. We all want to 
be on record. But I hope that also, the next time this matter comes up 
for a debate about the policy of this war in Iraq, some of our 
colleagues who want to just continue this indefinitely for years and 
years will reflect on how many more American lives will be sacrificed 
if that happens. That is the sad reality of where we are.

The Senator could not, because his stack of papers would be 
dramatically larger, include the names of all those who have been 
seriously wounded or injured in this war. They deserve our thanks and 
our recognition as well. Many of them will carry scars for a lifetime. 
Some are very visible scars and some not visible. They are struggling 
with lives, facing blindness, burns and amputations, traumatic brain 
injuries, and post-traumatic stress disorder. I visit these veterans 
hospitals and see those veterans of past wars who are still paying the 
price today, alive--maybe barely alive--but paying the price for their 
service.

I hope beyond the resolutions we will have the resolve to make sure 
we keep our word to these veterans, that when they come home they will 
receive the best medical care, they will receive our help to continue 
their lives, to go to school or to own a home. When I read about the 
percentages--half the homeless people in America are veterans--when I 
read that the unemployment rate among returning veterans is so high, it 
is a grim reminder that those who have given the most often receive the 
least when they come home.

I thank the Senator from Massachusetts. I hope I can add my name, 
along with many others, as a cosponsor of this resolution and thank him 
for his leadership on this important issue.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.