# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `8cb888f55e39455877b7e43c6151d879`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 25 January 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. I would ask that the Chair tell me when I have 3 
minutes.


















Iraq War


I want to take the time--since I have been listening patiently here, 
our colleagues are going to listen to me read a rather dramatic article 
in the New York Times today, page A-10:




 In the battle for Baghdad, Haifa Street has changed hands 


 so often that it has taken on the feel of a no man's land, 


 the deadly space between opposing trenches. On Wednesday, as 


 American and Iraqi troops poured in, the street showed why it 


 is such a sensitive gauge of an urban conflict marked by 


 front lines that melt into confusion, enemies with no clear 


 identity and allies who disappear or do not show up at all.



 In a miniature version of the troop increase that the 


 United States hopes will secure the city, American soldiers 


 and armored vehicles raced onto Haifa Street before dawn to 


 dislodge Sunni insurgents and Shiite militias who have been 


 battling for a stretch of ragged slums and mostly abandoned 


 high rises. But as the sun rose, many of the Iraqi Army units 


 who were supposed to do the actual searches of the buildings 


 did not arrive on time, forcing the Americans to start the 


 job on their own.



 When the Iraqi units finally did show up, it was with the 


 air of a class outing, cheering and laughing as the Americans 


 blew locks off doors with shotguns. As the morning wore on 


 and the troops came under fire from all directions, another 


 apparent flaw in this strategy became clear as empty 


 apartments became lairs for gunmen who flitted from window to 


 window and killed at least one American soldier, with a shot 


 to the head.



 Whether the gunfire was coming from Sunni or Shiite 


 insurgents or militia fighters or some of the Iraqi soldiers 


 who had disappeared into the Gotham-like cityscape, no one 


 could say.



 ''Who the hell is shooting at us?'' shouted Sgt. First 


 Class Marc Biletski, whose platoon was jammed into a small 


 room off an




 alley that was being swept by a sniper's bullets. ''Who's 


 shooting at us? Do we know who they are?''



 Just before the platoon tossed smoke bombs and sprinted 


 through the alley to a more secure position, Sergeant 


 Biletski had a moment to reflect on this spot, which the 


 United States has now fought to regain from a mysterious 


 enemy at least three times in the past two years.



 ''This place is a failure,'' Sergeant Biletski said. 


 ''Every time we come here, we have to come back.''



 He paused, then said, ''Well, maybe not a total failure,'' 


 since American troops have smashed opposition on Haifa Street 


 each time they have come in.



 With that, Sergeant Biletski ran through the billowing 


 yellow smoke and took up a new position.



 The Haifa Street operation, involving Bradley Fighting 


 Vehicles as well as the highly mobile Stryker vehicles, is 


 likely to cause plenty of reflection by the commanders in 


 charge of the Baghdad buildup of more than 20,000 troops. 


 Just how those extra troops will be used is not yet known, 


 but it is likely to mirror at least broadly the Haifa Street 


 strategy of working with Iraqi forces to take on unruly 


 groups from both sides of the Sunni-Shiite sectarian divide.



 The commander of the operation, Lt. Col. Avanulas Smiley of 


 the Third Stryker Brigade Combat Team, Second Infantry 


 Division, said his forces were not interested in whether 


 opposition came from bullets fired by Sunnis or by Shiites. 


 He conceded that the cost of letting the Iraqi forces learn 


 on the job was to add to the risk involved in the operation.



 ''This was an Iraqi-led effort and with that come 


 challenges and risks,'' Colonel Smiley said. ''It can be 


 organized chaos.''



 The American units in the operation began moving up Haifa 


 Street from the south by 2 a.m. on Wednesday. A platoon of B 


 Company in the Stryker Brigade secured the roof of a high 


 rise, where an Eminen poster was stuck on the wall of what 


 appeared to be an Iraqi teenager's room on the top floor. But 


 in a pattern that would be repeated again and again in a 


 series of buildings, there was no one in the apartment.



 Many of the Iraqi units that showed up late never seemed to 


 take the task seriously, searching haphazardly, breaking 


 dishes and rifling through personal CD collections in the 


 apartments. Eventually the Americans realized that the Iraqis 


 were searching no more than half of the apartments; at one 


 point the Iraqis completely disappeared, leaving the American 


 unit working with them flabbergasted.



 ''Where did they go?'' yelled Sgt. Jeri A. Gillett. Another 


 soldier suggested, ''I say we just let them go and we do this 


 ourselves.''



 Then the gunfire began. It would come from high rises 


 across the street, from behind trash piles and sandbags in 


 alleys and from so many other directions that the soldiers 


 began to worry that the Iraqi soldiers were firing at them. 


 Mortars started dropping from across the Tigris River, to the 


 east, in the direction of a Shiite slum.



 The only thing that was clear was that no one knew who the 


 enemy was. ''The thing is, we wear uniforms--they don't,'' 


 said Specialist Terry Wilson.



 At one point the Americans were forced to jog alongside the 


 Strykers on Haifa Street, sheltering themselves as best they 


 could from the gunfire. The Americans finally found the 


 Iraqis and ended up accompanying them into an extremely 


 dangerous and exposed warren of low-slung hovels behind the 


 high rises as gunfire rained down.



 American officers tried to persuade the Iraqi soldiers to 


 leave the slum area for better cover, but the Iraqis refused 


 to risk crossing a lane that was being raked by machine-gun 


 fire. ''It's their show,'' said Lt. David Stroud, adding that 


 the Americans have orders to defer to the Iraqis in cases 


 like this.



 In this surreal setting, about 20 American soldiers were 


 forced at one point to pull themselves one by one up a canted 


 tin roof by a dangling rubber hose and then shimmy along a 


 ledge to another hut. The soldiers were stunned when a small 


 child suddenly walked out of a darkened doorway and an old 


 man started wheezing and crying somewhere inside.



 Ultimately the group made it back to the high rises and 


 escaped the sniper in the alley by throwing out the smoke 


 bombs and sprinting to safety. Even though two Iraqis were 


 struck by gunfire, many of the rest could not stop shouting 


 and guffawing with amusement as they ran through the smoke.



 One Iraqi soldier in the alley pointed his rifle at an 


 American reporter and pulled the trigger. There was only a 


 click: the weapon had no ammunition. The soldier laughed at 


 his joke.


Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining?