# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8cbbaa647c0b86b6ba77019879ede62a`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 20 September 2010`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I rise today to honor SSG 
Michael Bock of Springfield, NE.

Sergeant Bock grew up in Springfield, attending Elkhorn Mount Michael 
High School for 2 years before moving with his family to Leesburg, FL. 
About a month after graduating from Leesburg High School in 2002, 
Sergeant Bock joined the U.S. Marine Corps.

Marrying his high school sweetheart, Tiffany, in 2003, Sergeant Bock 
was very much a family man. According to Tiffany, no matter what he was 
doing or how long he was working, he would still call his family. He 
even got up in the middle of the night recently while in Afghanistan to 
get online and watch Zander, his 3-year-old son, blow out his birthday 
candles.

Sergeant Bock was also very dedicated to his career in the Marine 
Corps. He served two tours in Iraq and also served in Australia and 
Indonesia, where he received a Marine Corps humanitarian ribbon for his 
help during the tsunami recovery in 2004.

Sergeant Bock's goals of starting a college fund for his son and 
purchasing a house for his family were interrupted on August 13, 2010. 
He was on his second deployment in Afghanistan serving with the 3rd 
Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary 
Force when he was killed while supporting combat operations in the 
Helmand province.

SSG Michael Bock knew the dangers he faced and the risks he took. He 
also knew the importance of the work he did in the Marine Corps on 
behalf of his fellow Americans. He risked--and ultimately sacrificed--
his own life so people a world away could have the chance to enjoy the 
freedoms he had found in America. I join all Nebraskans in mourning the 
loss of Sergeant Bock and in offering my deepest condolences to this 
young hero's family.



