---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `8cd0b84c97c631f89f04ef661ee5e5cb`
`Mr. COCHRAN — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Madam President, this appropriations bill reported by 
our Committee on Appropriations responds to the President's request for 
supplemental funding for the Department of Defense and other 
departments and agencies. The bill provides $121.6 billion in emergency 
spending. Of this amount, $102.48 billion is provided to support Iraqi 
security forces to continue operations in Afghanistan and to wage the 
global war on terrorism. In testimony before our Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Defense, we were told this funding is needed by the end 
of April.

I am disappointed the bill contains language that sets forth a 
timetable for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. The language amounts 
to a restatement of S.J. Res. 9, which a majority of Senators voted 
against, 50 to 48, on March 15. The Senate has spoken on this issue. 
Inclusion of this language as reported by the Appropriations Committee 
last week will only slow down the bill and invite a Presidential veto. 
We need to approve the funding now. Unnecessarily extending this debate 
is not going to serve the national interests. I will offer an amendment 
to strike this language from the bill.

In this bill, the Appropriations Committee also approved $14.8 
billion for additional emergencies, including $7.9 billion for 
continuing the recovery from Hurricane Katrina. The affected States are 
making good progress, slow but steady and sure. But additional Federal 
resources are needed. The bill also includes $1.7 billion for veterans 
health care facilities, which signals the committee's continuing 
interest in ensuring that our veterans receive the quality care they 
deserve.

I applaud the chairman's goal, the distinguished Senator from West 
Virginia, of completing work on the bill this week. I am concerned, 
however, that the bill is almost $19 billion above the President's 
request. We need to be sure this spending is necessary and responsible. 
I look forward to working with my good friend from West Virginia to 
ensure that this is the case. It is imperative that we provide funding 
to our troops promptly, and it will remain my goal to put a bill on the 
President's desk that he can sign.










 Amendment No. 643 to Amendment No. 641


Madam President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask that it be 
reported.