# IMMIGRATION REFORM
## `8cd65f7b7ef64efdd80ea9be6129e588`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 25 June 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to share some thoughts about 
immigration and the situation in which we currently find ourselves and 
offer a bit perspective, I think fairly, on where we are.

We are the world's most free nation and are having one of the 
strongest periods of economic growth--maybe our strongest ever. 
Billions of people all over the world, however, are in poverty and live 
in countries that are corrupt and backward. One expert has said that 
all would live a better life if they came to the United States. I think 
that is a true fact.

We are indeed a nation of immigrants, and that heritage has caused us 
to continue one of the most generous legal immigration systems of any 
nation in the world. I submit, however, that immigration policy is an 
issue of national sovereignty, as Canada, Mexico, Spain, Japan, 
England--all nations understand and respect. This is an acknowledged 
fact. I chaired the Mexican-American Senate Interparliamentary Group 
for 2 years. We talked about those things. Everybody understands 
setting immigration policy is your nation's prerogative.

It is amazing to me that our majority leader--in this case, our 
Democratic leader--will use the power of first recognition to call up 
an immigration bill again, just two weeks after the American people 
have basically rejected it. In fact, the polling numbers show that 
support for the Senate bill is dropping further and further. He then 
will use, I understand, an unprecedented, never-before-used procedure 
that would block amendments. This is the so-called clay pigeon 
procedure others have described. He will file a first degree amendment, 
and then file a second degree to it to fill the tree, so no other 
second-degree or unapproved amendments will be allowed votes. He will 
divide his own second degree into 20 or so amendments and then work 
every procedural trick in the book to ensure that the underlying bill 
and its 20 hand picked amendments move the


legislation through this Senate as fast as possible. The mandarins who 
are managing this piece of legislation want it out of here. They don't 
want any more calls from their constituents. They don't want any more 
talk show people explaining some of the things that are in it. They 
want it off their plate. Good policy? Well, they say, that is for 
another day. We just want the bill out of here.

Well, the opposition to this bill is gaining momentum. Thoughtful 
Senators who wanted to vote for something are analyzing the fine print 
of the bill and realizing that the ''vision'' bill supporters describe 
is not supported by the text. Senators are announcing that they will be 
voting no. Senators who participated in the debates and wanted to vote 
for something and hoped to be able to vote for this bill after 
examining it in more detail are indicating that they are going to vote 
against it.

It is quite clear that the same special interest forces who produced 
the 1986 bill are the ones who worked behind the scenes to produce this 
one. It was produced in secret meetings of politicians without any 
public hearings. It did not go through a single committee markup. But 
you can be sure the activist open border immigration forces, and the 
business interests, were having their voices heard in these meetings. 
Does anybody doubt that? What about the American public? Were they in 
the room? Were their opinions sought after? What about experts in law 
enforcement, were their opinions sought after? I suggest not.

The mandarins, in their faux wisdom, treated this as a political 
problem that could be solved by compromise. We have to pass something, 
they said. That was the mantra. So in the end it seems that passing 
something means passing anything, regardless of whether, in the end, it 
will work to end illegality or establish good policies that will serve 
our long-term national interest.

This Senator will never support a bill that will fail as 
spectacularly as the 1986 legislation failed. I have to tell my 
colleagues, my best judgment, and we looked at this hard, is that this 
one will fail. Even the Congressional Budget Office, our investigative 
analysis arm, in its June 4--just a few weeks ago--cost estimate, says 
that illegality after the passage of this bill would be reduced a mere 
13 percent. Mr. President, 8.7 million illegal aliens would be expected 
over the 20-year period instead of 10 million under current law. That 
is what their estimate is.

So our masters--and I say that affectionately; I call them masters of 
the universe. These are good friends and good Senators. They have tried 
to do something. They got it in their head that if they just all met 
and they just put out the realpolitik and they worked out the political 
deals and split the babies and all this, they could do a bill that 
served America's interests. I watched with interest. I thought some of 
the things they said they wanted to accomplish were good improvements 
over last year's bill. But I have to tell you, I don't believe it 
worked. I don't believe they got there.

They don't want to pay attention to those of us who question what 
they have done, you see. They believe they are wonderful and bright and 
thoughtful and love America and are compassionate. The rest of us, they 
say you see, we are nativists. They say we just oppose immigration--
despite the fact that we don't oppose immigration. They say we don't 
like immigrants. They say we don't have courage. How many times have I 
heard that? You have to have courage to vote for this turkey, I guess. 
That is supposed to be something that would be good. But sometimes I 
think hanging in here and opposing the machinery of this process takes 
a little gumption on the part of those of us who oppose it.

They say we do not believe in immigration or we lack compassion. I 
want to reject those charges flatout. They are false. I believe in 
immigration. I believe in a guest worker program. But I want a guest 
worker program that will work, will not be an avenue of expanded 
illegality, as the CBO said this one will.

In fact, because of the guest worker program, the Congressional 
Budget Office has said visa overstays, those people who come in legally 
but do not go home when they are supposed to, will increase under this 
bill, not decrease.

I thought we were supposed to be fixing illegality not enhancing 
illegality. So I wish to say to my colleagues, first, it is 
indisputable that the passage of this bill will not create a lawful 
system of immigration. This bill does not live up to their promises. 
Our good friends the masters came out of their secret meeting, and they 
announced they had fixed immigration; they announced that they had a 
comprehensive plan that is going to fix immigration, and that we are 
finally going to end this illegality.

But their own Congressional Budget Office that responds to them, that 
responds to the Democratic leaders, Senator Reid or Speaker Pelosi, it 
is pretty much a nonpartisan group, but they are under the control of 
the Congress. This group under the control of the Congress says it will 
not work, says visa overstays will increase and the net impact on 
illegal immigration only be to reduce illegal immigration by 13 
percent.

Now, I consider that one event so significant, so earth shaking, that 
I cannot see how the Majority Leader could still take up this 
legislation and jam it down the throat of this Senate through an 
unprecedented procedure to pass it, especially when the American people 
do not like it either.

So it will not create a lawful system. We can be sure of that. We 
felt that when we analyzed it. My chief counsel, Cindy Hayden, and 
others looked at it, we found loophole after loophole. I made a speech 
of about 20 loopholes that were in the legislation. There were many 
more than the specific 20 I talked about. But we knew it was not going 
to be an effective law enforcement bill. It was not going to secure the 
border. So what does the CBO say? They agreed with our analysis.

Secondly, what else is fundamentally in here? The legislation fails 
to move to a merit-based system and, in fact, triples low-skilled and 
chain migration over the next 8 years. The promise was made that the 
bill would move us to a system more like Canada has, which makes so 
much sense; a system that Canada is very proud of. They believe it 
serves the Canadian interest.

They still have the same number of refugees and humanitarian 
immigrants that they always did, but they have--with regard to the rest 
of their immigration policy--reached a point where 60 percent of the 
people who enter into Canada have to come through a point system. If 
you are admitted and come in, you can bring your wife and children, but 
to do that, you basically have to first demonstrate that you can 
contribute to Canada.

One of the things they gave you points for, in an objective 
evaluation, is education. We know that if an immigrant has had any 
college courses, they do much better economically. They ask if you 
speak English or French. You get extra points if you do that.

You even get extra points if you are younger. You get extra points if 
you have skills Canada needs. They even give you points if you move to 
areas of Canada that are underpopulated and have a particular job 
shortage.

That is the way the deal works. They promised we would have that in 
this legislation. That was part of the announcement. But when you read 
the fine print, you see that was eroded away in the political 
compromise. The bill's merit based system will not have any substantial 
effect until 8 years after this date. So I don't know what will happen 
in 8 years. You never know. But we would like to see this kind of thing 
in the bill.

I congratulate the people who produced it, that they began to discuss 
it because last year it was not even discussed. I talked about it on 
the floor repeatedly. I asked how we could debate comprehensive 
immigration reform and nobody even ask what they are doing in Canada. 
So they put the Canadian system in here. But it is so weak that it is a 
great disappointment.

Well, I indicated that illegal immigration would only drop 13 
percent. What about the proposal for legal immigration on the 
legislation? Well, it is going to go up 100 percent. Legal immigration 
will double in the next 20 years.

Now we have looked at the numbers. I think this is indisputable. We 
will have twice as many people getting legal permanent residence over 
the


next 20 years as we would under current law. I am not sure when the 
average citizen listened to our colleagues and they announced on that 
big day, the grand bargain, that we were talking about a proposal that 
would hardly limit legal immigration at all and would double legal 
immigration, I don't think that is what they had in mind when 
comprehensive reform was discussed.

What about cost? The Congressional Budget Office dealt with that 
issue. They have to score legislation. Well, what does the cost factor 
say? Under the CBO analysis, the cost to the taxpayers of the United 
States--now I wanted to make this clear, this is not for border 
enforcement, Border Patrol acts, barriers or anything such as that--
this is costs that will be incurred by the recipients of amnesty, who 
will be given amnesty under this bill, because all of a sudden they 
will be entitled to welfare, Medicare, and other types of tax credits 
and other types of benefits.

They concluded this legislation will add to the taxpayers of America 
an additional $25 billion in cost over the next 10 years. They have 
admitted, without any hesitation, those costs will greatly increase in 
the outyears, because the way this thing is staggered, people's 
benefits do not come immediately. But as the years go by, they are 
entitled to more welfare and social benefits.

So they have admitted we are going to have an increase significantly 
in the future because, in fact, the persons who are here illegally, for 
the most part, have little education. Approximately half, maybe even 
more, do not have a high school diploma at all, and their skill levels 
are low.

We have statics and scientific data on that. I am not disparaging 
anyone. I respect anyone who works hard and wants to come to America 
and work hard. I respect that. But I can say with certainty these are 
basically low-wage workers that are going to be legalized.

My fifth point is, that the way the bill is written, it will reduce 
the wages of working Americans. We bring in more cotton in this 
country, the price of cotton goes down. You bring in more iron ore, the 
price of iron ore goes down. If you reduce the amount of oil coming 
into the country, the price of oil goes up. You bring in more laborers, 
the price of labor goes down.

I would submit that if one of the charges I have made out of these 
five is true, this legislation should be pulled from the floor; it 
should not become law. But I am going to take a few moments now to 
demonstrate, I believe with hard evidence, all of these charges are 
true. The legislation, in effect, will not end the unlawfulness of our 
current system and will shift the balance against American workers and 
create another amnesty that will encourage even more illegals in the 
future.

The effect will be to continue the erosion of confidence by the 
American people in Congress, and in the Government overall, which is at 
an all time low, virtually. I am not sure since I have been in the 
Senate, we have such a large number of people who believe this country 
is on the wrong track.

I have to believe, and experts have told me, that their distrust and 
dissatisfaction over immigration is a big part of the way, the cause of 
this cynicism. Let me take some points here, one by one.


Will this grand bargain we are presented with create an honest, 
legal, fair system for the future? The answer is no. That was our 
conclusion after we studied the bill. But let's look at what others 
might say. I mentioned the CBO study. They said specifically that the 
bill would limit the amount of illegal flow across our border by 25 
percent but would increase illegal visa overstays significantly.

The net result was only a 13-percent reduction in illegals, from 10 
million illegals projected to come into our country under current law 
over the next 10 years, to 8.7 illegals coming in over the next 10 
years. That is a 13-percent reduction only. That is not good enough. We 
should be at the 80, 90 percent of increased lawfulness. Aren't we 
trying to create a system of law?

I was a Federal prosecutor for 15 years, 12 years as U.S. attorney. 
This is not acceptable. People come to America because they believe we 
are a Nation of laws; their rights will be protected. I happened to be 
at a birthday party reception for a friend of mine. A lady from England 
there came up to me and she said: I hope you stand up for this. She had 
a distinct British accent. She said: I thought you ought to play right 
by the law and people shouldn't come in illegally. I tried to do the 
right thing.

Well, what about others? What do they say? What experts are out there 
who know something about immigration? What do they think of this bill? 
What about Border Patrol officers, people who carry out their daily 
responsibilities to enforce the border, who have lived with this 
illegality for so long? They are real experts. I assure you they were 
not in the meeting with the masters of the universe when they crafted 
this legislation.

They know what is happening. A group of them, a prominent group of 
retired Border Patrol officers held a press conference at the National 
Press Club on June 4. Their purpose was to express their opinion about 
the legislation. I have to tell you, their opinions are not a pretty 
sight. I am going to quote from them and show you what they said; not 
what this Senator said but what they said.

Hugh Brien, the former Chief of the Border Patrol from 1986 to 1989, 
after the 1986 failed bill became law--He was appointed by former 
President George H.W. Bush. He is himself an immigrant to America. He 
came here as a young man. This is what he had to say about the bill. It 
is, he said:




 A complete betrayal of the Nation.


Is that harsh? It was his job. That is what he said about it. He went 
on to say:




 It is a slap in the face.


To the millions who came here legally, such as the lady I met today, 
such as a lady from India who was written up in the Montgomery 
Advertiser, I believe, yesterday, who talked about having to hire a 
lawyer and filing all of the paperwork and taking several years, but 
she was proud to be here legally, and she did not appreciate people 
coming illegally, or such as the lady I met at a funeral not long ago 
who had come into this country after a number of years who said: I hope 
you make the law enforced for everybody equally; I did it right.

Now don't tell me that when you ignore law there are no consequences. 
In a real sense, as my experience as a prosecutor says, when you don't 
enforce the law, you make chumps of the guys who do it right, and when 
you provide benefits to those who cheat, it is not a good thing for a 
Nation who respects its legal system.

What else did Mr. Hugh Brien, former head of the Border Patrol say? 
He said:




 It is a sell-out.


He went on to note that in 1986, when this same debate was occurring 
and he was about to take office as the head of the immigration system, 
and these are the words he used--it is not funny, he said: Our masters, 
our mandarins, promised us their bill would work. These are tough 
words, but these are people who are entitled to express them. They are 
not my words.


Powerful politicians who are unaware of the reality of what it takes 
to actually create a legal enforcement system without experience in 
these matters have arrogantly cut a political deal and they have cut 
one, unfortunately, that doesn't work. I guess that is not too far from 
the definition of a mandarin.

Mr. Hugh Brien added these final important words:




 Based on my experience, it's a disaster.


He has the experience to say so. He was charged with enforcing the 
1986 immigration law which proved to be a disaster and he did, as chief 
of the Border Patrol from 1986 to 1989.

What about the national chairman of the Association of Former Border 
Patrol Agents, Kent Lundgren. This is what he had to say. He had some 
harsh words, too. With regard to the promise that the system will do 
24-hour background checks, he said, after studying the bill, there are 
''no meaningful criminal or terrorist checks'' in the bill. That is a 
bad thing. We have been told this bill will make us safer. He says 
there are no meaningful criminal or terrorist checks in the bill. He 
knows how the system works and how this 24-hour check will occur. He is 
scoring the screening procedure set forth in the bill saying ''the 
screening will not happen, period.'' He added:


''There's no way records can be done in 24 hours.''

As to the promise that this bill will work, he concluded--these are 
not my words; he is presently the associational head of the former 
Border Patrol Officers, the national president: ''Congress is lying 
about it.''

On a separate issue, the provision that allows gang members, even 
members of the very violent international MS-13 gang, to become lawful 
permanent residents if they check a box to renounce their gang 
membership, he said, ''What planet are they from,'' talking about us. 
Why would our colleagues write a bill that allowed for this?

These are real views, harsh views of a man who led the border patrol 
association and had a press conference a few weeks ago to express deep 
concern.

Another one at the press conference was Jim Dorsey, a former Border 
Patrol agent, who served 30 years. He served as inspector general with 
the Department of Justice. He was promoted up from the Border Patrol, 
which is a part of the Department of Justice, to the Department of 
Justice, and was given responsibility to investigate serious 
allegations of corruption. That is quite a responsible position to be 
chosen for that as investigator. He had these things to say: ''The 24-
hour check is a recipe for disaster.''

As to the overall legislation, Mr. Dorsey said at the National Press 
Club: ''I call it the al-Qaida dream bill.''

Roger Brandemuehl, chief of the Border Patrol from 1980 to 1986 under 
President Reagan--this is another chief of the Border Patrol for 6 
years under President Reagan--he said: ''We have fallen into a 
quagmire.'' He added: ''The so-called comprehensive reform is neither 
comprehensive nor reform. It's flawed.''

What about the current Border Patrol Association, the Border Patrol 
union? It is not just the retired patrol officers who oppose the bill; 
the current ones do as well. In May, the National Border Patrol 
Council, affiliated with the AFL-CIO, sent out a press release titled 
''Senate Immigration Reform Compromise is a Raw Deal for America.'' 
These are the people who are out doing it every day. The press release 
stated:




 Every person who has ever risked their life securing our 


 boarders is extremely disheartened to see some of our elected 


 representatives once again waving the white flag on issues of 


 illegal immigration and border security. Rewarding criminal 


 behavior has never induced anyone to abide by the law, and 


 there's no reason to believe that the outcome will be any 


 different in this case.


I spent the better part of my professional career as a prosecutor. If 
you make it clear that you are not going to enforce laws, people assume 
the laws won't be enforced. In fact, when law enforcement officers 
don't enforce the law, they de facto wipe out legislative actions and 
eviscerate policy. You have to enforce the laws.

He goes on to say:




 Passage of time has proven the 1986 amnesty to be a mistake 


 of colossal proportions. Instead of wiping the slate clean, 


 it spurred a dramatic increase in illegal immigration.


He goes on:




 Rather than the meaningless triggers of the additional 


 personnel and barriers outlined in the compromise, Americans 


 must insist that border security be measured in absolute 


 terms.


That is a strong, crystal-clear condemnation of this act by the 
officers whose lives are on the line this very moment on our border 
trying to enforce our laws. Are we going to listen to them? Or are we 
going to listen to our mandarins, our masters meeting in secret, who 
plopped a bill down here, 700 pages long, that they say will make the 
system work? I wish it would. I even had hopes this spring, and I said 
so publicly. I was hoping they might make real progress. But I am 
afraid we haven't. Talk to the experts. Talk to CBO.

This is a another very significant, but discrete issue that I believe 
we should think about, and it is a weakness I had not fully 
comprehended until I read a piece in the Washington Times by Michael 
Cutler on June 21. He also participated in a press conference, a 
different one than the Border Patrol one, at the National Press Club on 
June 19. The event focused on the grave threat to national security the 
immigration bill represents. Mr. Cutler authored an op-ed in 
the Washington Times last Friday entitled ''Immigration Bill Is a No 
Go'' that focused on security issues raised by the bill. People are 
going to be invited to come in who are here illegally, give their name 
and so forth, and within 24 hours they will be receiving a legal status 
in the country, a probationary visa. It will soon be converted into 
this Z visa that people will have, but immediately within 24 hours, 
they will be provided that, unless something shows up of a serious 
nature in their background. But as these experts have told us, it is 
not possible to do a very effective check in 24 hours, as you can 
imagine. Even though you can do a computer run, it still has great 
weaknesses in it. So he focuses on this whole issue and says this:




 If a person lies about his or her identity and has never 


 been fingerprinted anywhere in our country, what will enable 


 the bureaucrats at the USCIS--

that is the agency that will be handing out the immigration benefits--



 to know the person's true identity? If the adjudicators 


 simply run a fictitious identity through a computerized 


 database, they will simply find the name has no connection to 


 any criminal or terrorist watch lists.


I am quoting him now.




 What is the true value? Remember, we are talking about a 


 false name.


Let me continue quoting:




 There is absolutely no way this program would have even a 


 shred of integrity and the identity documents that would be 


 given these millions of illegal aliens would enable every one 


 of them to receive a driver's license, Social Security card, 


 and other such official identity documents in a false name.



 Undoubtedly, terrorists would be among those applying to 


 participate in this ill-conceived program. They would then be 


 able to open bank accounts and obtain credit cards in that 


 same false name. Finally, these cards would enable these 


 aliens to board airliners and trains even if their true names 


 appear on all of the various terrorist watch lists and ''no 


 fly'' lists. That is why I have come to refer to this 


 legislation as the ''Terrorist Assistance and Facilitation 


 Act of 2007.''


There has been a lot of talk in this Senate about Mexico's consulates 
throughout the United States issuing matricula cards and that these 
matricula cards are given based on documents that nobody knows for sure 
how good they are. Therefore, the cards they have are not really 
guaranteed to be a valid identity, but they are being utilized around 
the country as legitimate identification. What Mr. Cutler says is the 
identification documents we will be giving out under this bill will not 
be any better than matricula cards. It is going to prove nothing more 
than what the person said to get the card. He may come here, be one of 
those people who planned to hijack our airplanes and crash them on 9/
11. Several of them were apprehended by state and local police. But, 
under this act, unless we had their fingerprints on record--and I am 
sure none of those fingerprints were on record--they would be given an 
official ID from the United States government, giving them complete 
freedom to go anywhere in the country.

That is why he calls it ''the Terrorist Assistance and Facilitation 
Act of 2007.'' That is a very serious professional criticism of a core 
part of this legislation.

How about this? Mr. Kris Kobach, a former Department of Justice 
attorney under Attorney General Ashcroft and a specialist on terrorism 
and immigration, agrees with Mr. Cutler. He posted an article on the 
Heritage Foundation Web site titled ''The Senate Immigration Bill, a 
National Security Nightmare.'' The article states:




 The bill will make it easier for alien terrorists to 


 operate in the United States by allowing them to create 


 fraudulent identities with ease.


Wow, is that a charge? Should we be hell bent to go forward tomorrow 
and move on to a bill that the American people reject and that could be 
called a terrorist dream bill that would actually allow and make it 
easier for terrorists to obtain fraudulent identity in this country?

Mr. Kobach, a fine lawyer, now professor, goes on to write:




 Supporters of the Senate's comprehensive immigration reform 


 bill have revived it under the guise of national security. 


 However, the new public relations campaign is a farce. The 


 bill offers alien terrorists a new pathway to obtain legal 


 status which will make it easier for them to carry out deadly 


 attacks against American citizens.
The top priority in this 


 bill is extending amnesty as quickly and easily as 


 possible to as many illegal aliens as possible. The cost 


 of doing so is to jeopardize national security.





That is a statement from a former Assistant Attorney General of the 
United States of America charged with these kinds of issues, now a 
professor.

Well, we know this: We know the sheriffs along the border have 
absolutely been in an uproar over our failure to back them up in their 
efforts to create a lawful border. Is anybody listening to them? The 
truth is, the Senate bill is not going to stop illegal immigration or 
even substantially reduce it. According to the Congressional Budget 
Office, the new Senate bill will only reduce net annual illegal 
immigration by 13 percent. There will be additional visa overstays: 
550,000 by 2017 and up to 1 million 10 years later, according to the 
CBO.

Now, I mentioned that it promised, at the beginning, a move to a more 
merit-based point system for evaluating those applying for citizenship 
instead of the much-criticized chain migration policy we now have. The 
Canadians have adopted such a policy, after a very careful study over a 
period of years, and they are very happy with it. I talked to the head 
of the Canadian immigration system--Monte Goldburg--about it. He said 
they are very happy with it. They would like to take it even further 
toward a merit-based system than the current law by which they now 
admit 60 percent of the immigrants in their country based on a 
competitive skills-based system.

But, unfortunately, the bill fails to meet this goal. For the next 8 
years--almost a decade--instead of moving to a merit-based system and 
ending the chain-based system, chain migration will increase. After 
that, merit admissions will reach just more than one-third of all 
immigrants entering our country. So we will continue this system that, 
in effect, favors lack of education and low-skill workers, and denies 
entry to those who have higher skills, education, speak English, and 
have college degrees.

How does that chain migration work? You see, if you are here, you got 
amnesty last time, or if you came here legally, you are then allowed to 
bring your wife and children. I think we should always have that. So I 
am not opposing wives and children. But under current law, you are 
allowed to also immigrate your parents, and your brothers and your 
sisters. You can bring a brother, and the brother can bring his wife 
and their children; and your sister, likewise. These would come based 
on their family connection only and not based on any skills they might 
offer to our country. So I am worried about that. I do not think we 
have accomplished a large enough move in the direction the drafters 
indicated they would. I thank them for at least dealing with the issue 
this year, which was not dealt with last year.

This is very important--very, very important. I will just say, you 
see, it is a zero-sum game. We cannot admit everybody who would like to 
be an American citizen. That is a fundamental principle. That is a 
fundamental principle. In the year 2000, 11 million people applied for 
the 50,000 lottery slots. There are 50,000 slots in America where they 
draw your name out of a hat. You send your name in, they put it in 
there, and they draw the names. Mr. President, 11 million applied. That 
gives an indication of how many people would like to come to America.

So if you have an overall cap on how many people can come legally and 
you are allowing parents and brothers and sisters--without any 
reference to whether they have any skills or not--then you are denying 
slots to people. Let's say two people apply from Honduras. One was 
valedictorian of his high school class. He wants to come to America and 
learn English. He has 2 years of college and technical training. That 
person applies. Another one is a brother of somebody who is in the 
United States. That brother maybe does not have a high school diploma, 
maybe is basically illiterate even in the language of which he was 
raised. Who is going to get in? The brother gets in and denies, 
therefore, a slot, an entry right to somebody who has a better chance, 
statistically speaking, of flourishing in the great American 
experience.

So I do not think it is a harsh thing for America to say: If you 
leave your community and you come to America and we agree to allow you 
to be an American citizen, what obligation do we, then, have to you to 
say you get to bring your parents and your brothers and sisters, 
whether or not they will provide and be able to be successful in 
America?

I just do not get it. I think the country has a right to say: Let's 
have people compete for those slots, and the best persons--the ones who 
are likely to prosper the most and be most successful--ought to be the 
ones who get the benefits.

My fine staff people, Cindy Hayden and Jenny Lee, have examined the 
details of this legislation. They have consulted others and concluded 
that over the next 20 years the law will provide twice as many persons 
with legal permanent status in our country as we would under current 
law. I do not believe the American people understand this. I do not 
believe they think that is what reform is about.

Of course, as I noted, illegal immigration is not going to go down 
but 13 percent. So I would pose this question to my colleagues: How can 
you call this a ''grand bargain''? It is more like a Faustian one, to 
me. Just like in 1986, there is a grant of amnesty to virtually 
everyone here--no illegal alien left behind, and a lack of enforcement.

In fact, this amnesty will be another incentive for illegals to 
believe they will be given amnesty in the future once again. Indeed, no 
one has promised to not give amnesty again. I thought a most 
interesting speech--I happened to catch it--was by Chuck Grassley, the 
Senator from Iowa, who was here in 1986. He said he is not supporting 
this bill. He said: I was here in 1986, and everybody said this is a 
one-time amnesty. It will not happen again. We are going to fix this 
system. Trust us.


Of course, we did not fix the system, and they gave 3 million people 
amnesty then. Now we are looking at 12 million. But the key thing in 
Senator Grassley's speech that I thought went to the core of what we 
are about and why we ought to have a pause here is, he said: Nobody has 
come on this floor and said we won't give amnesty again in the future. 
He said: You will not hear them say it. Why? Because we moved into a 
pattern of ignoring the law and not enforcing it.

What about costs? You have heard the talk: If given amnesty, our 
illegal population will pay taxes. They are hard working. This will 
help America. It will help increase our population. The Medicare and 
Social Security systems are in long-term jeopardy. These new workers 
will help us save Medicare and Social Security.

You have heard those arguments. I have to tell you, I wish that were 
true. I even myself thought it might be several years ago. But the fact 
is, nothing could be further from the truth. Out of 12 million people 
who would be given amnesty--I call it amnesty. Different people have 
different words. It is not a loaded question to me. I have said 
repeatedly that persons who are here unlawfully now, who came here 
wrongly, who have been here a number of years, who have worked hard, 
who have obeyed the law, have children, perhaps, deep roots in our 
society--I do not think we can ask all those people to leave. I am not 
asking for that to be a part of my proposal to fix immigration. But 
when you give people an absolute status, I guess I think amnesty is a 
fair word for it.

My personal view is we should never, ever, after 1986, give people 
who come to our country illegally all the benefits we give to people 
who come to our country legally. That is my view of it. We will make a 
mistake if we do it again this time. But some sort of lawful process 
where people can stay and be legal and not have these burdens--for 
those who have earned it and done well--I am willing to accept it. But 
of the 12 million who are here, half do not have a high school diploma. 
Most have lower skills. They overwhelmingly are lower income workers. 
They will immediately be treated like green card holders--legal 
permanent residents--and be entitled to all the benefits that low-
income American workers get, which are paid for by the U.S. taxpayers. 
As low-income workers, they will pay little, if any, income taxes--we 
know that--while gaining the child tax credit for their children, food 
stamps, subsidized housing, education, and health care at our emergency 
rooms.

So in one part of the analyses, the Congressional Budget Office adds 
up all


these numbers, and they conclude that the cost over the next 10 years 
to the taxpayers of this country--not including enforcement, fences, 
border patrol, all that stuff; just the cost from legalizing those who 
are here illegally--will be over $30 billion.

Now, with my amendment I offered to delay the earned-income tax 
credit payments to illegal immigrants who are here, and to delay it 
until at least they became a legal permanent resident, we would reduce 
that to maybe $25 billion. That passed by a narrow margin, which I was 
pleased to have passed, but all the rest of the benefits are there, so 
we are looking at perhaps a $25 billion net drain on the U.S. Treasury, 
according to the Congressional Budget Office. They admit it will be 
much greater in the future.

In the outyears, the costs will increase because the way the bill is 
written, certain benefits are not made available initially to those who 
are given legal status, but their benefits will increase in the years 
to come. How much will those increases be? When asked if it would be a 
substantial increase in the future, the Congressional Budget Office--
which did not score beyond the 10 years--said certainly, absolutely, it 
would be a substantial increase.

One institution has looked at this figure: the Heritage Foundation. 
The Heritage Foundation's senior fellow, Robert Rector, has spent 
months on this very issue. He used the best available statistics in 
calculating the costs to the American Government--State, Federal, and 
local treasuries--of amnesty. It is a picture that I think, as 
responsible legislators, as representatives of our own constituents, we 
have to think about, we have to acknowledge. The number he came up with 
is so large that many people have just tried to dismiss it without any 
thought. But Robert Rector is one of the foremost experts in this 
country on welfare and social programs. He was the architect of the 
welfare reform President Clinton vetoed two or three times and finally 
signed and took credit for for the rest of his tenure. How wonderful it 
was. It did work exceedingly well. Mr. Rector's analysis cannot be 
lightly dismissed. He concludes that the cost to Federal, State, and 
local governments from just retirement of the 12 million to their death 
would be $2.6 trillion.


It is clear any short-term benefit--whatever the exact number is out 
there, whatever the exact number is--any short-term benefit provided to 
American businesses who would enjoy these low-skilled workers would be 
more than offset by the lifetime costs of tax credits, welfare, food 
stamps, Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare that will be picked up 
by the American public--the taxpayers.

Mr. Rector said: ''This is a fiscal disaster.''

Finally, I believe this legislation, because it will not reduce 
illegal immigration and will double--only a 13-percent reduction--and 
will double legal immigration, will put even more stress than we 
currently have on working middle-class Americans. It will have a 
tendency to pull down wages of American workers. That is their asset: 
their labor. But workers are more than a mere asset; they are human 
beings. They are created with inalienable rights, according to our 
Declaration, and they are citizens who are the ultimate shareholders of 
America. Citizenship carries responsibilities for them and for us. We 
pay taxes. We serve in the military to the point of giving our lives 
for our country.

I have talked to a lot of mamas and fathers in the last several years 
who have had their sons--middle-class Americans who are serving our 
country in Iraq and Afghanistan who have lost their lives in service to 
our country.

We have an obligation to obey the law. We accept court rulings even 
if they are silly and absurd. That is what we do. We grumble, but we 
follow what the court says. We obey laws passed by this Congress, 
whether we like them or not, whether they make sense or not. That is 
the responsibility of citizenship in this Nation we have inherited.

Those of us now in Congress I submit have an obligation to those 
dutiful citizens who serve every day doing the right thing. We owe them 
something. One thing we owe them is consistent and fair application and 
enforcement of the law. Another is to make sure those who do the right 
thing are rewarded or allowed to prosper and those who do not are 
disadvantaged. This is the definition of a morally ordered society. We 
are a community of people, voluntarily bound together in many ways. It 
is the uniqueness of America. It is our strength. But do not ever doubt 
that that moral order, that proper balance, can be eroded if we are 
irresponsible in this body. It can even be lost.

Labor is more than barrels of oil, tons of iron ore, bales of cotton, 
or kilowatts of electricity. Our workers are our citizens, created 
beings of infinite worth. They have every right to expect, to demand, 
that their elected representatives protect their interests, their 
country's legitimate national interests, not just what might be seen as 
an immediate benefit to that abstraction we might refer to as ''the 
economy.''

So I believe in immigration. I support immigration. I do not want to 
end it. I support an effective temporary worker program. But let's tell 
the truth about immigration and wages in this country. The elites are 
doing very well in this boom period, corporations are making record 
profits, but what about our citizens of this Republic who are less 
skilled? What have their wages done?

We have had a series of witnesses, including Dr. Chiswick from the 
University of Illinois. We had Professor Borjas of the Kennedy School 
at Harvard. We had Alan Tonnel at a Senate hearing. We had a hearing 
and all of them testified and all of them agreed that large numbers of 
immigrants are, in fact, reducing wages of American citizens.

I left this Senate Chamber Friday after talking about this issue, and 
I mentioned wages. I went out, and right on the corner there was a 
gentleman with a homemade cardboard sign. He had white hair and gray in 
his beard.

I said: Well, what brings you here?

He said: Well, I wanted to come up and have my say about this 
immigration bill. He told me he was a master carpenter and that he was 
from Melbourne, FL, and that in the 1990s he made $75,000 a year. He 
said he can hardly stay in business today because of the large flow of 
immigrant workers that has pulled down his ability to have the kind of 
income he would like.

Now, some may think that is too much money for a carpenter. I don't, 
not if he works hard and not if he is good. Don't think there are not 
millions of Americans who have given their lives to developing a skill 
and a craft and that, in the blink of an eye, can be made less valuable 
by an unwise, ineffective, inappropriate immigration policy.

So there is a lot we need to think about as we debate this bill. I am 
absolutely convinced it will not do what it promises, and what it will 
do may be adverse to our country. I am very worried about it. There is 
no reason whatsoever in the face of overwhelming public opposition that 
we should be bringing it up, and there is no reason whatsoever that the 
majority leader should be utilizing this clay pigeon procedure which, 
apparently, he will execute tomorrow, that will allow us to vote only 
on the amendments he chooses and to craft this procedure for handling 
this bill to minimize to the nth degree the amount of time we have 
available to debate it. I think that is a mistake. I object to that and 
urge my colleagues to vote tomorrow not to proceed to the legislation.

I yield the floor.