# HONORING THE LIFE OF U.S. MARINE CORPORAL MIKE OUELLETTE
## `8cdae2666c8744f62a458abe904b1d42`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 26 March 2009`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor U.S. Marine 
Corporal Mike Ouellette of Manchester, New Hampshire. Corporal 
Ouellette was tragically killed in action on Sunday, March 22, during a 
foot patrol in the Helmand Province in Afghanistan. He was 28 years 
old.

Corporal Ouellette leaves behind his parents, Donna Ouellette and 
Leonard Ouellette, a brother Alan, and a sister Stephanie. I extend my 
deepest sympathies to Corporal Ouellette's family, who are in my 
thoughts and prayers.

We also honor the courage and the sacrifice of Corporal Anthony 
Williams, 21, of Oxford, Pennsylvania, who was killed alongside 
Corporal Ouellette.

Corporal Ouellette was a patriot who was twice deployed to Iraq and 
was serving his third tour of duty with the 3rd Battalion, 8th Marine 
Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force.

Corporal Ouellette graduated from Memorial High School in Manchester, 
New Hampshire, in 1999 and studied at the Manchester School of 
Technology before he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps on June 
15, 2005. I spoke with his father last night, who said his son just 
wanted to help people. Corporal Ouellette was best known for his 
friendly and outgoing nature and will be missed by many. He was a 
blessing to his community. He dedicated his life to the service of his 
family, his friends, and his country.

Our country owes Corporal Ouellette and his family a debt we cannot 
repay.


We salute Corporal Ouellette's selfless sacrifice, service and bravery. 
America was honored to call him our son.
