# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8cece72add8d0436775df524362da1d6`
`Mr. POMEROY — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. POMEROY. Mr. Speaker, yesterday morning I had an experience I 
will never forget. In the snow, in the slush and the ice, I joined the 
family of Major Alan Johnson as his body was laid to rest at Arlington 
Cemetery. He had lost his life in an IED explosion in Iraq just 2 weeks 
before.

On behalf of the people of North Dakota, I expressed to the extent I 
could our profound condolences for the family's loss. The major's 
grieving widow stared into my eyes and said, ''Do what you can for our 
troops over there.''

This is not just a plea and a prayer of the families of our soldiers, 
it is the demand of the American people. I believe each and every one 
of us here shares an intense commitment to our soldiers that comes 
right from the bottom of


our heart. This debate is revealing a sharp difference between us in 
how to proceed in Iraq.

But there are no differences when it comes to all we share about the 
valor our soldiers have displayed in service to our country. I have 
seen it personally in the four trips I have been to Iraq. I have seen 
soldiers in full battle gear, in 133 degree heat, doing their absolute 
best to perform their mission. I have seen North Dakota National Guard 
soldiers charged with training up Iraqi soldiers through an impossible, 
absolute, language barrier.

I have seen other soldiers just back from the life-threatening 
business of finding and detonating these explosive devices, saving 
American lives while keeping essential roads open. Like most of you, I 
have mourned and prayed with shattered families whose sons and 
daughters have lost their lives in selfless service to our country and 
all we care about.

So I cannot get Tori Johnson's fervent request out of my mind, take 
care of our soldiers over there. Honestly, there is nothing I care more 
about as a Member of this House.

So, how do we respond? We take care of our soldiers over there by 
making certain they have the equipment they need as they undertake this 
most difficult and dangerous mission. We take care of our soldiers over 
there by making certain their deployments are only for acceptable 
periods and at acceptable intervals, with enough time at home in 
between to heal, to rest and to train. But beyond these things, we take 
care of our soldiers over there when we as a Congress make certain the 
mission they have been sent to perform has a reasonable chance of 
success.

In a war where so many tragic mistakes have been made, this Congress 
must not sit quietly by while additional plans are cooked up in 
Washington, whose only certainty is to accelerate the loss of American 
lives, compound the already severe strain on our military capability 
and accelerate the burn rack of taxpayer dollars spent in Iraq.

For these reasons, this resolution is a very important opening 
statement for this Congress to make in Iraq in 97 words. It states our 
support for our soldiers, while opposing the President's plan to 
escalate the number of troops we send into the middle of the Shia-Sunni 
violence taking place in Baghdad.

On one of my trips to Iraq, a soldier said to me, ''We can stand up 
an Iraqi Army, but we cannot create a country for this army to 
defend.'' This simple truth goes right to the heart of the issue and 
exposes the flaw of the President's plan.

Without the commitment between the warring parties in Iraq to stop 
the killing and create a political agreement upon which a national 
government can exist, 20,000 more U.S. soldiers are not likely to bring 
about a lasting peace. Our soldiers are disciplined and determined. 
They have superbly performed everything that has been asked of them.

However, the United States alone cannot create a democracy in Iraq. 
Only the Iraqi people can achieve that.

A broad group of experts, including the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, 
former Secretary of State Colin Powell, the former senior military 
commander in the region, General John Abizaid, have all rejected the 
strategy of escalating U.S. troop numbers as a means of bringing the 
factions of Iraq together.

The bottom line is that this troop escalation will increase the 
terrible cost of this endeavor, more lives lost, more young men and 
women maimed forever, more tens of billions spent, all without 
improving our prospects for an acceptable outcome.

Under these circumstances, I will vote to oppose this escalation of 
troops. It is part of what I believe we must do. Under these 
circumstances, I will oppose this escalation of troops. It is part of 
what I believe we must do to support our soldiers over there and the 
American interests they have put their lives on the line to defend.