---
---

# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `8cf51dbc7b2e04993d80cf798dc3724a`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I thank my friend. Briefly, I recount a 
conversation with a friend of mine this morning. He said, watching the 
hearings yesterday, that he thought those


who have been critical of our effort in Iraq seemed quite restrained 
yesterday. I said they were, and I think it is because the record 
General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker were giving us was one of 
remarkable progress militarily, politically, and economically. It was 
hard to criticize, so the criticisms were kind of around the side: Why 
can't you tell us when we will get out exactly? Why didn't President 
Maliki consult more before he went south?

What I wish is that our colleagues had accepted the facts General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker gave us of the extraordinary progress 
in Iraq, which is very critical to our security because it creates a 
victory for the moderates, the good guys in the civil war within the 
Islamic world, and it protects our security in that sense because, 
remember, it is the fanatics who killed 3,000 of us on 9/11.

Let's hope for another day when there will be an agreement on the 
facts, and maybe we can get together to figure out how we can 
accelerate progress in Iraq so what all of us want can happen, which is 
we bring as many of our troops home as quickly as possible, with honor 
and after success. What can Congress do? I would say two things, after 
listening yesterday. One is to pass a supplemental. The second is to 
stay out of the way and not force our military and diplomatic leaders 
to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. Don't impose deadlines.
