---
---

# None
## `8cfac63a75206f562d5ec8c937665399`
`Mr. BARRASSO — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BARRASSO. Thank you, Mr. President.

This is the first time I am addressing this body. I am filling the 
seat of former U.S. Senator Craig Thomas, a marine, a warrior, and an 
American hero. He was a gentleman from Wyoming who has left large boots 
to fill.

Now, some people have suggested that when I give my first speech, I 
do it at a time during the day when many people back home in Wyoming 
would be watching television.

Mr. President, you are also from the Rocky Mountain Time Zone, and 
you know people get up early. But at home it is now 3 a.m., and I doubt 
we have many viewers at home.

I was sworn in a little over 3 weeks ago, but it is like I have never 
left home. As a physician, an orthopedic surgeon, trauma surgeon, I am 
used to getting up at this hour and working at all unusual hours. 
People of Wyoming know that, and they call on me day and night. That is 
why I am here at this hour.

About 21 hours ago, we had a bipartisan breakfast to discuss this 
very issue. At that body, I told the whole group I was the most 
prepared to be up at this hour working. I am delighted to be with you. 
But we are here debating a very serious issue.

I spent a lot of time with Senator Thomas in the last year, driving 
him around the State of Wyoming, discussing the war, visiting about the 
war, about his trip to Baghdad, talking about the fact that we are 
threatened in a global war on terror, and that this is a threat to our 
way of life.

As a background, as a trauma surgeon and also as a Wyoming State 
Senator in the State Senate, I chaired the Transportation, Highways, 
and Military Affairs Committee. In that position, I asked to go and 
make sure that the Wyoming troops were getting everything they needed 
in Afghanistan and Baghdad. I was unable to make that trip. The 
arrangements could not be made. But I was able to go to Walter Reed. At 
Walter Reed, I was able to visit the troops, the wounded warriors,


because I wanted to make sure that both as a State senator and as an 
orthopedic surgeon those folks were getting the kind of care they 
deserved.


What I saw were hero warriors, people who lost a limb or two limbs, 
and they wanted to return to combat. They wanted to do anything they 
could to get back with their buddies and fight for freedom.

Wyoming has paid the price, as has every State. I have been to 
services for young people who have lost their lives. I have held and 
tried to comfort family members. A little over a month ago, I got a 
call from my physician assistant. Her son is in Iraq. Her nephew was 
also in Iraq, and she had just gotten the news that her nephew had been 
killed. I went to visit the family.

These are brave warriors. These are people doing everything they can 
for freedom and for our Nation. They did not die in vain.

This past weekend, I was home in Wyoming. I had a town meeting in 
Douglas. I was also home over the Fourth of July. I had town meetings 
in Jackson and in Lander. I went to a couple rodeos, as I am sure you 
do as well. I talked to hundreds of folks traveling around the State. 
When I went to the rodeos--whether in Casper, or on the Fourth of July 
in Cody, where I attended it with a former U.S. Senator from Wyoming 
who has served on the Iraq Study Group--when they ride into the arena 
holding the American flag, people stand, take off their hat, and put 
their hand over their heart. The announcer does not have to tell them 
to do that. They just do it.

At both of those rodeos, in Casper and in Cody, they dedicated the 
''Star Spangled Banner'' with a salute to Craig Thomas, former marine. 
Susan Thomas was there at both events and received the love of the 
crowd. Then, at both events, the announcer asked for prayers for the 
bravest men and women in the world, those who are fighting to keep us 
free.

What I heard from people all around Wyoming was: Do not quit. Do not 
pull out. Support the troops.

What are the consequences of withdrawal? Well, we heard it today with 
the Cornyn amendment. It passed today 94 to 3. The purpose: ''To 
express the sense of the Senate that it is in the national security 
interest of the United States that Iraq not become a failed state and a 
safe haven for terrorists.''

We can go through the findings.




 The Senate makes the following findings:



 A failed state in Iraq would become a safe haven for 


 Islamic radicals, including al Qaeda and Hezbollah, who are 


 determined to attack the United States and United States 


 allies.



 The Iraq Study Group report found that ''[a] chaotic Iraq 


 could provide a still stronger base of operations for 


 terrorists who seek to act regionally or even globally.''



 The Iraq Study Group noted that ''Al Qaeda will portray any 


 failure by the United States in Iraq as a significant victory 


 that will be featured prominently as they recruit for their 


 cause in the region and around the world.''


We can go on and on, but to me, the Iraq Study Group's final report, 
page 67, says it best:




 The point is not for the United States to set timetables or 


 deadlines for withdrawal, an approach that we oppose.


With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.