---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8d013aadd17a2b009763d73baa478e75`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, today I honor Army CPL Dustin 
Lee Workman II.

Upon his graduation in 2005 from Ashland-Greenwood High School in 
Ashland, Nebraska, Corporal Workman joined the Nebraska National Guard. 
His friends and family describe him as an iron-willed person, and as 
someone who was deeply in touch with his faith. One of his former 
teachers described him as a talented and creative writer. In fact, 
Corporal Workman, who was not yet 20 years old, composed a poem, which 
was set to music by one of his friends and sang at his funeral. I 
attended the funeral, and it was a moving rendition. The poem follows:






 I am from God whose


 Hand molded me with only his will.


 Conceiving my innocence


 As I lay dormant and still.



 I am from God who knew


 No limits nor fear.


 Who gave up his son


 Without shedding a tear.



 I am from God who granted


 Me my soul.


 Never to be Hell's among


 The others it stole.



 I am from God who's my


 Shepherd and Lord.


 Guiding others and myself


 In our herds and our hordes.



 I am from God whose


 Power and blessing is given as mine


 Endowed into me by his hand so divine.


On June 28, 2007, Corporal Workman passed away due to combat injuries 
sustained from an improvised explosive device while serving in Iraq. He 
was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade 
Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division, based in Fort Carson, CO.

Corporal Workman is survived by his father, Dustin, Sr.; mother, 
Valerie; and two younger siblings, Korey and Krysta. I join all 
Americans in grieving the loss of a patriot and a beloved friend, 
brother, and son.













 Sergeant Nathan L. Winder
