# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `8d05c32da2b4472efb4a3f35722abefc`
`Mr. WEBB — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I will begin by associating myself with many 
of the remarks made by the Senator from Maine. As someone who served as 
the Secretary of the Navy, along with the senior Senator from Virginia, 
I have strong feelings about the strength of the Navy and the size of 
our fleet.

I introduced an amendment on Friday that I would like to urge my 
colleagues to examine and support. We are in an odd situation in the 
business of Government at the moment in that the international 
authority for the United States to be operating in Iraq will expire at 
the end of this year. The U.N. mandate, through the U.N. Security 
Council, expires at that time.

Since last November, this administration has been negotiating what is 
called a Strategic Framework Agreement that is intended to replace the


international authority of that U.N. mandate. Two questions have come 
up, however, with respect to what the administration is doing. The 
first is the timeline. This is an agreement that, by all accounts, has 
not yet been fully negotiated. It is being negotiated by the 
administration without the participation of the Congress, and there are 
indications from Iraq that the Iraqi Government negotiators themselves 
have serious questions that had not been anticipated at the beginning 
of this process. So we have a potential, with the timeline, that the 
U.N. mandate will run out at the end of the year and there will not be 
an agreement in place that authorizes the presence of our forces in 
Iraq under international law.

The larger question is constitutional. What entity of the Federal 
Government has the authority to enter the United States into a long-
term relationship with another government? Both of these are serious 
issues. I submit that the conditions under which we will continue to 
operate in Iraq militarily, diplomatically, economically, and even 
culturally, are not the sole business of any administration. These 
questions involve the legal justification under domestic and 
international law for the United States to operate militarily--and 
quasi-militarily, by the way, given the hundreds of thousands of 
independent contractors that are now essentially performing military 
functions in that country.

There are questions about the process by which the U.S. Government 
decides upon and enters into long-term relations with another nation--
any nation. In that regard, there are serious questions about the very 
working of the constitutional system of our Government.

This administration has claimed repeatedly since last November that 
it has the right to negotiate and enter into an agreement that will set 
the future course of our relations with Iraq without the agreement, the 
ratification, or even the participation of the Congress.

The administration claims the justification for this authority can be 
found in the 2002 congressional authorization for the use of force in 
Iraq or, as a fallback position, the President's inherent authority, at 
least from the perspective of this administration, as Commander in 
Chief.

Both of these justifications are patently wrong. The 2002 
congressional authorization to use force in Iraq has nothing to do with 
a negotiation of a government which replaced the Saddam Hussein 
government which did not exist in October of 2002, as to the future 
relations culturally, economically, diplomatically, and militarily 
between our two countries.

On the other hand, we are faced with the reality that the U.N. 
mandate will expire at the end of this year and that this expiration 
will terminate the authority under international law under which the 
United States is operating in Iraq at a time when we have hundreds of 
thousands of Americans on the ground in that country.

I and several other colleagues have been warning of this serious 
disconnect for 10 months. Many of us were trying to say last November 
that apparently the intention of this administration has been to 
proceed purely with an Executive agreement to drag this out until the 
Congress was going out of session, as we are about to do, and then to 
present essentially a fait accompli in the sense that with the 
expiration of the international mandate from the United Nations at the 
end of the year, something would have to be done, and that something 
would be an Executive agreement that to this point the Congress has not 
even been allowed to examine. We have not been able to see one word of 
this agreement.

We tried to energize the Congress. We met with all of the appropriate 
administration officials. There have been hearings. There have been 
assurances from the administration that they will consult at the 
appropriate time, as they define it. We have seen nothing. And so we 
are faced with a situation that is something of a constitutional coup 
d'etat by this administration.

I say to my colleagues that we all should be very concerned. At risk 
is a further expansion of the powers of the Presidency, the result of 
which would be to affirm in many minds that the President--any 
President--no longer needs the approval of Congress to enter into long-
term relations with another country, in effect committing us to 
obligations that involve our national security, our economic well-
being, and our diplomatic posture around the world without the direct 
involvement of the Congress. This is not what the Constitution 
intended. It is not in the best interest of the country.

This amendment, which I offered on Friday, is designed to prevent 
this sort of imbalance from occurring and at the same time it 
recognizes the realities of the timelines that are now involved with 
respect to the loss of international authority for our presence in Iraq 
at the end of this year.

The amendment is a sense of the Congress. On the one hand, it is a 
sense that we should work with the United Nations to extend the U.N. 
mandate up to an additional year, giving us some additional 
international authority for being in Iraq, if needed, taking away the 
pressure of this timeline that could be used to justify an agreement 
that the Congress has not had the ability to examine, but also saying 
that an extension of the U.N. mandate would end at any time where a 
Strategic Framework Agreement and a Status of Forces Agreement between 
the United States and Iraq would be mutually agreed upon.

The amendment also makes the point that the Strategic Framework 
Agreement now being negotiated between the United States and Iraq poses 
significant, long-term national security implications for this country, 
and this would be the sense of the Congress. We need to be saying that. 
The Iraqis need to hear it from the Congress.

The amendment also puts Congress and the administration on record 
regarding the many assurances that the Bush administration has made to 
fully consult with the Congress with respect to all the details of the 
Strategic Framework Agreement and the Status of Forces Agreement and 
that copies of the full text of these agreements will be provided to 
the chairmen and ranking minority members of the appropriate committees 
in the House and the Senate prior to the entry into either of these 
agreements.

It is important to say that the Strategic Framework Agreement that 
has been mutually agreed upon by the negotiators from our executive 
branch and the Iraqi Government officials will cease to have effect 
unless it is approved by the Congress. This amendment states that 
within 180 days of the entry into force of that agreement, the Congress 
would approve it. We are not calling for the full and complicated 
procedures of a treaty, but we are saying a majority of the Congress 
should approve any agreement that has been entered into.

On the one hand, this agreement recognizes the realities of where we 
are in terms of timelines, but on the other it protects the 
constitutional processes by which we are entering into long-term 
relations with other countries, whether it is Iraq or any other country 
around the world.

We need, as a Congress, to preserve this process. It does not operate 
in a way that would disrupt our operations in Iraq. I urge my 
colleagues to join me on this amendment and protect the prerogatives of 
the Congress under the Constitution.

I understand this amendment will be included in the unanimous consent 
request that will come for a vote later today. I hope my colleagues 
will support me on it.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.