# DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `8d0afe39c76ac2e7b2220ab7aff03058`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 28 September 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I thank my good friend from Virginia, and 
I will always remember my very first trip into that war-torn country of 
Iraq was a trip that was led by Senator Warner and Senator Levin. It 
was the Levin-Warner codel that went into Iraq to try to learn more 
about what was happening in that country, to figure out a way in which 
we might be able to move forward.

The Senator from Virginia is correct. I think the debate in this 
Chamber and in this country has been helpful to bring about a better 
understanding and to deliver a message to the Iraqi people that we do 
not have an open-ended commitment. I was proud to have been a part of 
supporting the Senator from Virginia as we moved forward with 
the legislation that included the benchmarks that are now part of our 
national policy and that also required the General Accounting Office to 
report on those benchmarks and created the Jones Commission to give us 
an independent assessment of the security situation on the ground. So I 
think there has been progress that has been made.


But I would also respond to my good friend from Virginia, for whom I 
have the greatest amount of respect, that it is important this debate 
be one which we continue to have because it is the central foreign 
policy and national security issue of our time. Even though we all 
understand we live under a constitution which has divided the powers 
between three branches of Government, we all know from the 
jurisprudence of our past that the power of the President is, frankly, 
at its highest when, in fact, there is a relationship where he and the 
Congress agree on a way forward.

What we have seen over the last several years is a great division in 
this country in terms of where many of the members of the legislative 
branch of our Government is and where the President is. So I think our 
continuing efforts to try to find a way forward in a way that the 
Senator from Michigan, Mr. Levin, and others have been trying to do is 
something we should continue to do. I do not believe it is something 
that at this point in time we should give up on because this issue is 
too important. It is too important for the 170,000 men and women 
currently serving in Iraq. It is too important to their families in the 
United States. It is too important to the fiscal consequence this war 
is bringing upon the United States.

So I am hopeful the dialogue that has taken place in the Senate over 
the last week with different groups of Senators trying to find a common 
way forward ultimately will get us to success.