---
---

# LEGISLATIVE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2007
## `8d0bff7f56a4cd6d604f0f2a22805f80`
`Mr. McCAIN — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, we, as Members of Congress, owe it to 
the American people to conduct ourselves in a way that reinforces, 
rather than diminishes, the public's faith and confidence in Congress. 
An informed citizenry is essential to a thriving democracy. And, a 
democratic Government operates best in the disinfecting light of the 
public eye. With this bill, we have an opportunity to balance the right 
of the public to know with its right to petition Government; the 
ability of lobbyists to advocate their clients' causes with the need 
for truthful public discourse; and the ability of Members to legislate 
with the imperative that our Government must be free from corrupting 
influences, both real and perceived. We must act now to ensure that the 
erosion we see today in the public's confidence in Congress does not 
become a collapse of confidence.

I am pleased with the progress we have been making on this bill. We 
have been having a good debate on a range of proposals to further 
improve this bill, including requirements to reign in wasteful spending 
such as by more fully disclosing earmarks and granting the President's 
enhanced recision authority. We have recognized the need for increased 
disclosure and more timely reporting of lobbyists' activities. And, I 
am pleased that we are considering an amendment--one that I fully 
support--to require Members of Congress who use corporate aircraft to 
reimburse the full charter rate for a flight, instead of simply paying 
the cost of a first-class ticket, as required under the current rules. 
These are all solid proposals, but we need to do more.

Madam President, on this issue of the first-class airfare, I don't 
think there is a more dramatic example of the difference between we 
Members of Congress and the average American citizen. No American 
citizen can today call up a corporation and say: Please let me use your 
airplane, and, by the way, I am only going to pay first-class airfare. 
Nothing is more egregious. There are worse abuses that go on around 
here, but there is no more egregious an example than the ability of a 
Member of Congress, who many times has oversight of the corporation 
that provides the aircraft, taking advantage of a situation where they 
only have to pay first-class airfare, with a difference of sometimes 
tens of thousands of dollars. It is remarkable.

We need to reform earmarking beyond mere disclosure requirements. We 
need to curtail this practice, which cost American taxpayers $64 
billion in FY 2006, and I have offered an amendment to help do that. 
Above all, we need to ensure the enactment and enforcement of 
comprehensive lobbyist, ethics and earmark reforms. That is why we need 
to establish an Office of Public Integrity to help provide enforcement 
measures for the reforms that we are advocating. We can pass all the 
rules changes we want but unless we back them up with a tough 
enforcement mechanism, they are useless.

On the issue of earmarks, Madam President--and I obviously have a 
long record of being opposed to these egregious examples of 
porkbarreling--I think that it is important for us to recognize that 
there are two ways we can address earmarking. One is to eliminate them 
and the other is to watch them grow. Over the previous 20 years, I have 
watched them grow and grow and grow and grow.

I was intrigued by getting a call from an administration official who 
said the President is for cutting them in half. That is like saying we 
want to cut half of the drug dealers in America. There is an addiction 
in Congress to porkbarreling, and we have to cure the addiction or it 
will continue to grow.

It is because of this need that I am pleased to again join my 
colleagues, Senators Lieberman and Collins, in cosponsoring an 
amendment to create an Office of Public Intergrity to investigate 
complaints of ethical violations by Senators, staff, or officers of 
this Chamber. Headed by a Director appointed by the President pro tem 
of the Senate upon the joint recommendation of the majority and 
minority leaders, the Office of Public Integrity would investigate 
complaints of rules violations filed with or initiated by the office. 
To ensure swift action, within 30 days of receiving a complaint, the 
office would be required to make an initial determination whether to 
dismiss or investigate it. Although a determination by the office to 
investigate may be overridden by the Select Committee on Ethics, the 
amendment stipulates that this can occur only if the Ethics Committee 
overrides the decision by a two-thirds vote and makes this vote public.

To assist it in its investigation, the Office of Public Integrity 
would be empowered to issue subpoenas, take statements, and compel the 
attendance of witnesses. If, after investigation, the Director of the 
office determines that there is probable cause that a violation 
occurred, he or she must inform the Ethics Committee, which again, can 
decide not to proceed on a complaint, but only upon a two-thirds vote 
that must be made public. If the Ethics Committee does not overrule the 
office's determination of probable cause, the office shall present the 
case to the Ethics Committee which shall vote on whether the subject of 
the investigation violated any rules or other standards. Again, this 
vote must be made public. If the Ethics Committee finds there was a 
violation, the Director of the Office of Public Integrity shall 
recommend appropriate sanctions and whether the matter should be 
referred to the Department of Justice for investigation.

For 2 years, the Committee on Indian Affairs which I chaired at the 
time, investigated the actions of Jack Abramoff and Michael Scanlon, 
and


brought to light their efforts to manipulate the political process. If 
there is a silver lining to the Abramoff affair, it is that it helped 
to compel Congress to reassess the rules that govern our dealings with 
lobbyists and others who seek to influence us, and to do so through the 
eyes of the public, not through our own jaundiced perspectives. 
Frankly, I also believe the American public sent a clear message that 
business as usual in an unacceptable proposition. That is what drives 
our amendment today.

Again, I point out that we investigated in the Senate Committee on 
Indian Affairs Mr. Abramoff and his connection, frankly, with both 
sides of the Capitol. There was never an Ethics Committee 
investigation. It was the Justice Department that finally had to take 
action. There was ample evidence of misbehavior in violation of the 
rules of both Houses, and here we are with people in jail and, as far 
as I know, the Ethics Committee never ruled on their behavior. So when 
I hear people say the Office of Public Integrity would somehow cause us 
embarrassment, are we not embarrassed by what already happened? Are we 
not embarrassed that Members of Congress violated their oath of office 
to the degree that they are in jail and the investigation continued on 
the part of the Justice Department?

I say to the opponents of this amendment, in a perfect world, maybe 
you are right. In the world that we live in today, you are not right. 
We owe the American public a better system than the one that has been 
in place for the past several years.

While strengthening the Senate rules regarding disclosure, gifts, 
meals, travel and post-employment lobbying is necessary and overdue, it 
is also of little importance if the rules are not enforced. Instances 
of apparent violations of congressional rules by Members and staff who 
were the beneficiaries of Mr. Abramoff's largesse were widely reported. 
Press accounts of luxury trips, high-priced tickets to sporting events, 
meals at expensive restaurants, and other gifts suggest that there had 
been flagrant, if not widespread, violations of our rules, and that 
these violations had been occurring for some time.

As the columnist and scholar Norman Ornstein has observed, Congress 
has ''regularly struggled with its constitutional responsibility to 
police itself, sometimes verging on partisan vendettas--what we called 
in the 1980s and 1990s 'the criminalization of partisan differences'--
but more often erring on the side of doing nothing, or as little as 
humanly possible, to deal with ethical violations.''

At a time when the public is demanding change, the Senate needs to 
more aggressively enforce its own rules. We should do this not just by 
making more public the work that the Senate Ethics Committee currently 
undertakes, but by addressing the conflict that is inherent in any body 
that regulates itself. By creating, as this amendment would do, a new 
office with the capacity to conduct and initiate investigations, and a 
perspective uncolored by partisan concerns or collegial relationships, 
I believe we can address this long-standing structural problem.

This amendment strikes a good balance by keeping with the Select 
Committee on Ethics the final decisions on whether to conduct an 
investigation, whether a violation has occurred, and whether to refer 
the matter to the Department of Justice, while adding an independent 
voice to the process to ensure that the reputation of the institution 
is not sacrificed for the understandable concern for the reputation of 
one's friends and colleagues.

The Office of Public Integrity would not only assist in performing 
existing investigative functions, but would also be charged with the 
new function of approving or denying requests for travel by Members and 
staff. The purpose of this pre-clearance is to ensure that the trips 
serve a legitimate Governmental interest, and are not substantially 
recreational in nature. I believe that the Office of Public Integrity 
would be an appropriate entity to conduct these reviews.

I urge the majority and minority leaders to allow an up or down vote 
on this amendment. The American public is watching.

I urge my colleagues to support the amendment offered by Senator 
Lieberman.

Madam President, there are many organizations that are observing our 
activities. I think, as I said earlier, we can be pleased at some of 
the progress we are making. But this would be a seminal vote. This will 
be an indication that we are really serious, if we are really serious, 
about making sure that decisions made by the Ethics Committee are 
untainted by personal relationships or by other factors. I think it is 
long overdue.

I want to point out again that in the exit polling from the 2006 
election there were two major issues that affected the voters' opinion 
and vote. One, as we all know, was the war in Iraq. The other was the 
issue of ''corruption in Washington.''


The American public are very dissatisfied with the way Congress 
conducts its business. I have seen polls in the low twenties and even 
in the high teens of their approval rating of Congress. They don't 
think we conduct our business in an honest and straightforward manner, 
and they believe the special interests have way too much influence in 
determining both our priorities and the outcome of legislation.

I believe the Lieberman amendment can go a long way toward restoring 
the very badly tarnished image of the Congress of the United States.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.