---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `8d2f897f3ace7b331a845002d67a4498`
`Mr. McCAUL of Texas — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAUL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee for yielding me this time.

Here we are once again. I feel like we have done this before. Once 
again, I rise in opposition to the Democratic leadership's latest 
attempt to politicize the war, and I strongly urge my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to vote against defeat in Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, the debate in this Chamber over the future of Iraq and 
the best course of action has been passionate and divisive, and each 
Member of this House has their own opinion. Yet the one thing we should 
be united on is our end goal and result. That should be the same: a 
democratic and stable Iraq.

The Democratic majority has chosen to use this month of July, as they 
have


attempted several times already this year, to hold a series of votes to 
withdrawal our troops and force a premature end to Iraq's pursuit of 
freedom and democracy.

We have to ask: What would happen if we withdrawal immediately? When 
we talk to the experts in the region, the leaders in these governments 
and key stakeholders in the region, they will tell you it will be a 
fireball in the Middle East. It will create a vacuum, a safe haven for 
al Qaeda. Iran will swoop in and take over. They, the key nations in 
the region, are quite frankly terrified of this action, and they tell 
us that privately.

I believe that we can cannot afford that course of action. The 
Democrats have chosen this course not because it is in the national 
interest of this country but rather because they believe it provides 
them with good talking points to use back home. I submit they are 
mistaken.

In my view, Americans are tired and frustrated with the partisan 
squabbling over the war which has done nothing to improve the situation 
in Iraq. Putting politics above our national interest while the men and 
women of our military are fighting overseas is simply unacceptable.



In a time of war, politics should end at the water's edge.

There is another way forward. I and others have introduced the Iraq 
Study Group recommendations Implementation Act of 2007. This 
legislation is bipartisan. It is a comprehensive set of 
recommendations, a plan of action to succeed in Iraq, a plan which 
matches our military might with political solutions, with economic 
solutions and with a diplomatic surge which can bring peace and 
stability to the troubled nation. This bill has gained strength by 
those who recognize that moving forward in a unified way still exists 
in the Congress.

The Iraq Study Group report offers a consensus policy that the vast 
majority of Americans support. The sponsors of the Democrat withdrawal 
bill that we are debating here today, however, have decided that even 
though the surge only came into effect 3 weeks ago, that it's already 
failed and we need to question it and throw it out.

They further decided that we should declare defeat immediately and 
not wait for General Petraeus to come to Congress and give us his 
firsthand report. This rush to judgment, this rush to action on their 
part makes it clear that they have not reached an informed decision 
but, rather, a political one.

Throughout the course of our American history, we've answered the 
call for freedom, and we, Mr. Speaker, I submit are at our greatest 
when we are united as a Nation; at our worst when we are divided.

We should unite behind the ideals which helped achieve victory 
against the threats to our very way of life, such as the victories 
against the Third Reich, such as the threats by the Soviet empire and 
the victory against the Soviet Union.

Today, the greatest threat is the threat of terrorism, and the 
conflict in Iraq poses one of the greatest challenges to the American 
experience. We must unite, or we will surely fail.