---
---

# WAR IN IRAQ
## `8d30890df06893f1fcb04a3833112461`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, the Senate has spent little time in 
recent weeks discussing Iraq, but we cannot ignore the latest grim news 
from this misguided war. The Associated Press reported this week that 
2007 is now the deadliest year in Iraq for U.S. troops--even though we 
still have almost 2 months of this year remaining. I will ask that the 
article be printed in the Record.

According to a recent Associated Press count at least 3,858 Americans 
have been killed and 28,385 Americans have been wounded in Iraq. We are 
fast approaching two very grim milestones--4,000 killed and 30,000 
casualties. We should stop and consider the implications of these 
numbers. I grieve for those who are lost and wounded, and I am all the 
more determined that no more of our brave men and women should be 
killed in a war that has no end in sight and is not making our country 
safer.

Instead of acknowledging that these sad milestones are indications of 
a failed policy, the administration is once again digging it in heels. 
Lately, it has been talking about the recent decline in U.S. deaths as 
a justification for continuing its open-ended military policies in 
Iraq.

The American people are not fooled by these claims of success. They 
know all too well that the President's policies are simply buying time, 
and they continue to reject them. A recent ABC News/Washington Post 
poll illustrates that a majority of Americans are still calling for a 
change of course in Iraq. 59 percent of Americans think we're not 
making significant progress in Iraq and 6 out of 10 that's 60 percent 
of Americans want the level of U.S. forces reduced. And yet, the 
President ignores the wishes of the public, offering a small, token 
drawdown of forces in the near future but no timeline as to when 
significant numbers of troops will come home.

If the goal of the surge was to provide a window for political 
reconciliation, as the President outlined last January, victory remains 
elusive. Meanwhile, Al-Qaida has reconstituted and strengthened itself 
along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region at the same time while we 
have been focused on fighting a war in Iraq. The President likes to say 
that Iraq is the central front in the war on terror instead of fixing 
all his attention on Iraq, he needs to address what is happening 
hundreds of miles to the east.

Again and again, the American people have once again voiced their 
opinion that this war makes no sense and that they expect us uphold our 
congressional responsibilities and use our power to end it. It is bad 
enough to have the President disregard the American people by 
escalating our involvement in Iraq. Despite the efforts of Democratic 
leaders, Congress is also ignoring the will of the American people.

And so I urge my colleagues not to allow Iraq to remain on the 
congressional backburner. We cannot say we've done everything possible 
to end the war--we cannot say we are acting on our constituents' top 
concern--when we are not discussing, not debating, and certainly not 
voting on Iraq.

We cannot afford to sideline this critical issue at a time when we 
are close to reaching 4,000 American men and women killed and 30,000 
wounded in a misguided, never-ending war. It is a war that will 
continue through the waning days of this administration unless we 
summon our congressional power to end it. It is a war that we cannot 
sit back and doing nothing about. It is a war that has cost over half 
trillion dollars, stretched our military to the breaking point, and 
made us less safe. It is an unacceptable war.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the article from the 
Associated press to which I referred be printed in the Record.