---
---

# CONGRATULATING LITHUANIA ON 1,000TH ANNIVERSARY
## `8d53058ef50627ae1769713d0b0be9d0`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 24 July 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I would like to begin by 
thanking Congressman John Shimkus, for introducing this legislation. I 
would like to congratulate the people of the Republic of Lithuania on 
the 1000th anniversary of Lithuania. Lithuania, a full and responsible 
member of the United Nations, the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, the European Union, and the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization, has proved resilient in overcoming many obstacles 
and has achieved many great accomplishments: Lithuania founded Vilnius 
University in 1579; in 1990, the Republic of Lithuania was restored and 
Lithuania became the first Soviet republic to declare independence; in 
1918, Act of Independence of Lithuania led to the establishment of 
Lithuania as a sovereign and democratic state; in 2007, the United 
States Government and the Government of Lithuania celebrated 85 years 
of continuous diplomatic relations.

I commend Lithuania for successfully developing into a free and 
democratic country, with a free market economy and respect for and 
adherence to a rule of law. The U.S. welcomes and appreciates efforts 
by the Government of Lithuania to maintain international peace and 
stability in Europe and around the world by contributing to 
international civilian and military operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, 
Bosnia, Kosovo, and Georgia. Since 2005, Lithuania has been leading a 
Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT) of Ghor Province in Afghanistan. 
They have worked to help Afghanistan become a secure, democratic and 
self-sufficient state. Lithuania has been dedicated to the success of 
the UN-mandated ISAF operation and to working with the international 
community in Afghanistan motivates our involvement.

The vast Lithuanian community in the United States has preserved its 
spiritual, cultural and family ties with their historical motherland 
during the long years of living overseas, which translated into active 
cultural and business cooperation between Lithuania and the United 
States. The activities of Lithuanian Americans have greatly contributed 
to the restoration of Lithuania's independence and to the membership of 
Lithuania in NATO. Today their active participation greatly adds to the 
promotion of Lithuania's foreign policy goals and the strengthening of 
cooperation between Lithuania and the U.S. As a senior member of the 
House Foreign Affairs Committee, I recognize firsthand the importance 
of Lithuania's global foreign policy efforts, and they are to be 
commended.

The Lithuanian American Community, Inc., (LAC) is the network that 
keeps Lithuanians connected in the U.S. They have 60 chapters in 27 
states and the District of Columbia. The Houston, Texas chapter is an 
active and vibrant group, and they remain engaged in the community and 
strive to educate their fellow Houstonians on the rich culture of 
Lithuania. Lithuanian American community maintains regular contacts 
with the Lithuanian Embassy and other Lithuanian Government 
institutions.



Lithuania is a strong and loyal ally of the United States, and the 
people of Lithuania share common values with the people of the United 
States. I would like to congratulate Lithuania on its many 
accomplishments over the years and remain appreciative and grateful for 
their long history of friendship and cooperation with the people and 
Government of the United States.

