---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8d5678ce74e26b32f80043c7eb932f43`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, let me just take 2 minutes to respond to my 
colleague who has just made a number of points.

First, there are a number of live Democrats that I like to refer to. 
When somebody asks me whether or not Saddam Hussein was indeed a 
dangerous terrorist in and of himself, I like to take the words of all 
of the Democrat leadership of this country in the 1990s, when, in their 
words, there was no Bush administration to trick them, who made that 
point very, very forcefully.

Secondly, the invasion of Iraq and the taking of Baghdad in record 
time with very low casualties has been described by most military 
leaders as being a remarkably efficient and effective operation. In 
fact, while we had people saying that our troops would be bogged down, 
the same talk shows would be interrupted with a news flash that Tommy 
Franks had taken yet another stronghold of Saddam Hussein.



We took Baghdad with very low casualties, very, very quickly, in a 
very effective and efficient military operation.

Lastly, I don't think that the gentleman can say that there have been 
no ripples, no ripples whatsoever in the Middle East with respect to 
freedom and democracy and people wanting to be free as a result of the 
elections in Iraq. There clearly was action in Libya where they moved 
lots of parts of their nuclear weapons program which are now residing 
in the United States, I think as a result of American actions there. 
Clearly actions toward freedom, toward ejecting the Syrians from 
Lebanon and moving toward multiparty elections in Egypt. All imperfect 
to be sure but nonetheless reactions from our operation in Iraq.

Lastly, I would just say to my colleague let me just say to my 
colleague, there are no smooth roads. The smooth roads not taken, that 
have been held out by the armchair critics, like we should have kept 
Saddam Hussein's army in place, that was an army with 11,000 Sunni 
generals. What are you going to do with an army with 11,000 Sunni 
generals? Certainly not establish stability in a country in which you 
have a Shiite majority.

The idea that we needed to have 300,000 Americans in Iraq and yet at 
the same time put an Iraqi face, as a number of the critics have said, 
on the military apparatus.

So I think a number of the gentleman's points have been strongly 
disproven by the American operation in Iraq. We are in the second 
period right now of a three-phase operation: stand up a free 
government; stand up a military capable of protecting that free 
government; lastly, the Americans leave. Let's give the second phase a 
chance to work.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Wilson).