---
---

# None
## `8d658e69a839cd12e39622c2f91a1761`
`Mr. SPECTER — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, this is an unusual day in the Senate. I 
have been in this body for a while. I have never seen the floor so 
crowded. I have sought, since early morning, to find a little floor 
time and have waited more than an hour at the present time, past the 
time I was scheduled to speak. I am glad to listen.

I am beginning, on my consideration of the pending legislation, the 
energy speculation bill, to note what is happening on the Senate floor. 
There has been a lot of talk, a lot of talk in the Senate for the last 
4 days, and really no action--only one vote on Tuesday morning on a 
procedural matter to invoke cloture to proceed to the consideration of 
the bill. What has happened? We have been talking a great deal but not 
considering anything which would advance an energy policy for the 
United States.

We are engaged in a process which is a little difficult to 
understand, but I think it is important for the American people to know 
what is happening. A procedure has been utilized recently--the past 
couple of decades--where the majority leader exercises his rights as 
leader to take a procedural step which precludes anybody from offering 
amendments to the bill.

This is an opportunity. The Senate Chamber is empty, which it is 
frequently, certainly past 7 o'clock on a Thursday evening, but it is 
very hard


to convey this information so that people would understand why no 
action is being taken in the Senate. There is no doubt that it is a do-
nothing Senate and has been for some time as a result of political 
gridlock. That is why the ratings of the Senate have plummeted.

We have a situation which really started to percolate back in 1992, 
and it has been a practice of both Democrats and Republicans. 
Customarily--really invariably--when there is political blame in this 
body, it is attributable to both political parties. You can divide it 
right down the center aisle, and it is evenly split. But this procedure 
to preclude amendments is of fairly recent origin.

In the 101st Congress of 1989 to 1990, where Senator Mitchell was the 
leader, he did not use this procedure on any occasion. But by the 103rd 
Congress, 1993 to 1994, Senator Mitchell employed it on nine occasions. 
Then it was picked up in the Republican tenure of Senator Lott in the 
106th Congress, in 1999 to 2000, when Senator Lott used it nine times. 
Then, in the 109th Congress, 2005 to 2006, Senator Frist, the majority 
leader, used it nine times. In this Congress, the 110th, 2007 and 
partly through 2008, Senator Reid has used it 13 times.

What does this mean so that it can be understood by the American 
people who have such a vital interest in having the Senate function? 
Let me illustrate it with a bill on climate change which was called up 
in June of this year.

As soon as the bill was called up, Senator Reid exercised his rights 
as leader to get first recognition. In the Senate, Senators are 
recognized in terms of who first seeks recognition, but in case of a 
tie it goes to the leader. He then offers an amendment and then another 
amendment so that procedurally no other of the 99 Senators can offer 
any amendment.

The global warming bill was a very important bill. There has been a 
demand to deal with this issue which poses great threats to our 
environment. There was legislation pending, legislation which Senator 
Bingaman and I had introduced, the Bingaman-Specter bill, legislation 
introduced by Senator Lieberman and Senator Warner on a very complex 
subject.

Early in the week of June 2, I came to the floor and spoke about some 
amendments which I wanted to offer. I wanted to offer an amendment on 
emission caps. I wanted to offer another amendment on cost-containment 
safety valve--a price cap. I wanted to offer a third amendment on 
energy-intensive manufacturing competitiveness and a fourth amendment 
on steel process gas emissions. Of course, that was only one Senator, 
at the beginning of what I wanted to have considered. But I was 
foreclosed from offering any of those amendments by the procedure which 
Senator Reid used to fill the tree.

Then Senator Reid moved for what is called cloture; that means to cut 
off debate in order to proceed to final passage of the bill.

I wanted to consider the global warming issue, but I certainly was 
not about to agree to cutting off debate and proceeding to final 
passage before I or others had had an opportunity to offer amendments.

Now, what happens as a result? The result is that Republicans 
complain about what Senator Reid has done on precluding amendments, and 
Senator Reid complains about it being another Republican filibuster in 
response to the Republican's inability to offer amendments.

So there is finger-pointing. That is what we are really good at these 
days. And the American people do not understand anything except that 
nothing is being done. Now, we have had consideration this week on a 
bill called the energy speculation bill. We all wonder why the cost of 
oil has gone through the roof, causing gasoline prices of more than $4 
a gallon.

There is no doubt about the anguish and difficulties that the 
American people are suffering as a result of these costs, of these 
prices. And there is concern about the speculators who may be involved. 
Maybe they are. There are some indicators that part of the problem is 
caused by speculation.

Well, we haven't dealt with the issue in a logical, factual way; that 
is, for Senators to come to the floor and address the substance of the 
bill which is pending or offer amendments to modify the bill which is 
pending.

Now, Senator Reid, the majority leader, has followed the same course 
of action. He has filed cloture. We are going to have a cloture vote 
tomorrow. It takes 60 votes for cloture to cut off debate. It will not 
happen. When the motion for cloture fails, Senator Reid is going to go 
to his podium over there, and he is going to blast the Republicans for 
shutting down the bill at a time when the American people need relief, 
at a time when the American people need a decision as to what the 
speculators are doing.

I want to offer an amendment on bringing OPEC within our antitrust 
laws; something that I have been pushing for years. Right now, the OPEC 
combine has an exemption under our antitrust laws. The OPEC nations get 
into a room, they decide how much the production is going to be, they 
limit supply, and the price of oil goes up.

They have what is called sovereign immunity. Well, they ought not to 
have it. The Congress of the United States has the authority to change 
that. We can bring them within our antitrust laws so that the Attorney 
General can take action against them.

They are subject to jurisdiction in the United States because they do 
business here, and they have a lot of assets here. If we brought OPEC 
within our antitrust laws, you would see a change in their policy. They 
have argued for a long time--Saudi Arabia--that they cannot have any 
greater production. But about a month ago, when there were some signs 
of change in our consumption of oil, some fear that their preeminent 
position in their monopoly was in some jeopardy, somehow they increased 
their production.

If they increase their production, if the supply goes up, prices will 
come down--the inexorable law of supply and demand, one of the few laws 
that works.

So here we are, with an enormously serious problem with what is 
happening with the issue of oil prices and gasoline prices, and here we 
have a bill on the floor which addresses an issue of grave concern to 
the American people, and my hands are tied. My hands are tied with 99 
other Senators because procedurally we are blocked.

Then the next move is going to be to invoke cloture. It is not going 
to be invoked. Debate is not going to be cut off; 60 votes will not be 
received. Then the majority leader will remove the bill from the floor, 
and he is going to blame Republicans for obstructing, and the American 
people are not going to have any opportunity to understand what went 
on, except for the few who were watching on C-SPAN.

I made this speech during the consideration of the global warming 
bill. There was not a word in the newspapers about it. Why? Well, it is 
too complicated. It is too arcane. It is too ''inside the beltway.'' 
But until the American people understand it and send a message to 
Washington that they are not going to tolerate it, we are going to have 
to continue to have this gridlock.

When the shoe was on the other foot and Republicans controlled the 
Senate, during the time when Senator Frist was the majority leader, he 
invoked this procedure on nine occasions. Senator Reid and the 
Democrats were very unhappy about it, as well as Senator Durbin and 
Senator Dodd.

This is what Senator Dodd had to say about it:




 This chamber historically is the place where debate occurs.


And what Senator Dodd is referring to is that the Senate, unlike the 
House of Representatives, Senators have been able to offer any 
amendment on any subject at any time. And that is one of the great 
beauties about the Senate because any one of us can bring up an issue 
and call the attention of the American people to it, and with 
sufficient public backing, sufficient newspaper coverage, radio, TV, a 
little broader than C-SPAN2, there can be some action. But that has 
been foreclosed.

Senator Dodd was very emphatic about it back on May 11, 2006, when 
the Republican leader, Senator First, had filled the tree. Senator Dodd 
had this to say:




 To basically lock out any amendments that might be offered 


 to this proposal runs contrary to the very essence of this 


 body. When the amendment tree has been entirely filled--





He called it filling the tree when the procedure is used--



 when the amendment tree has been entirely filled, obviously 


 we are dealing with a process that ought not to be. The 


 Senate ought to be a place where we can offer amendments, 


 have healthy debate over a reasonable time, and then come 


 to closure on the subject matter.


Well, what did Senator Reid have to say about this subject on March 
2, 2006, when we were debating the PATRIOT Act? Senator Reid said:




 Do not fill the tree. That is a bad way, in my opinion, to 


 run this Senate.


What did Senator Reid have to say about the subject on February 28, 
2006, on the PATRIOT Act reauthorization, speaking about filling the 
tree.




 This is a very bad practice. It runs against the basic 


 nature of the Senate. The hallmark of the Senate is free 


 speech and open debate.


What did Senator Durbin have to say about it, the assistant majority 
leader for the Democrats, on May 11, 2006, when the Republican majority 
leader had filled the tree and precluded amendments?




 The Republican majority brings a bill to the Senate, fills 


 the tree so no amendments can be offered, and then files 


 cloture which stops debate; we cannot offer amendments.


So Senator Durbin outlines it as I did: The Republican majority 
leader fills the tree and then files cloture. Well, cloture was not 
adopted, and then these important issues are not considered and the 
American people wonder what is going on.

Well, I have taken a little longer to explain the subject, but it is 
very hard to get it across. I am going to keep trying. I have acted 
within the Senate to try to get the rule changed. A year and a half 
ago, I filed a rule amendment to try to get the rule changed. On 
February 15, 2007, I introduced S. Res. 83, and so far, I have not been 
able to get an answer from the chairman of the Rules Committee about 
what action she intends to take.

I might say to my colleague from Washington that I have been waiting 
an hour. I have limited time. But I am always a little wary when I see 
a colleague waiting. But there are some other subjects I want to talk 
about, so I want to give you some advance notice.

May the record show that Senator Murray has graciously given me a 
hand signal, sort of like the Patriots used in the Jets game, a hand 
signal, understanding that I am going to talk a little more. I will try 
to be brief, but there are some subjects I do want to address.



















Iran


I am very encouraged by what the administration has done as noted in 
the Washington Post within the past few days. The President has sent 
his first high-level emissary to sit down with Iran and has agreed for 
the first time to set a time horizon for withdrawing troops from Iraq 
and has authorized the Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, to join 
the North Korean diplomats at the Six Party talks about ending that 
country's nuclear weapons program.

I would urge the President, in the course of these talks, to exercise 
flexibility in the dealings with Iran. There is no doubt that on the 
international scene the possibility of Iran developing a nuclear weapon 
is the most serious international threat there is in the world today. 
No doubt about that. It is intolerable for Iran to have a nuclear 
weapon when its President talks about wiping Israel off the face of the 
Earth. And when Iran flouts international law by supporting 
international terrorists, no doubt about the threat that would pose.

It has been my urging of the administration that the United States 
not impose a precondition on the talks. The object of the talks is to 
stop Iran from continuing to process nuclear weapons and to abandon 
their effort to get nuclear weapons. They should stop their activities 
on processing uranium.

It seems to me where the object of the talks is to stop Iran from 
processing nuclear materials, that ought not to be a precondition of 
the talks. It is very difficult to go to a sovereign nation, it seems 
to me, and say: Before we begin the talks, we want you to have a freeze 
on processing nuclear materials, which is the object of our talks.

We have to approach anybody in any situation with a certain amount of 
dignity, with a certain amount of understanding about the other 
person's position, if we are to find some way to solve the problem. The 
administration talks about a freeze for freeze, but the freezes are 
very different. The freeze demanded by Iran is for them to stop a 
process which they have been engaged in, which they have asserted they 
have a right to as a sovereign nation. We don't like what they are 
doing. If they become a sufficient threat under the U.N. charter, 
article 51, there are circumstances where the threat is sufficiently 
imminent to take preemptive action. We all hope we never get to that 
stage. But until you have that situation, they are a sovereign nation, 
and they are engaging in activities which sovereign nations do.

The freeze we are offering is a freeze to not impose sanctions to 
take negative action against Iran. It is the projection of the six 
powers, led by the United States, that we have suggestions to make to 
Iran on a package of economic, political, a variety of incentives to 
stop Iran from processing nuclear material. It seems to me the best way 
to get on with it is to start to discuss with Iran what we have to 
offer specifically, to see if what we have to offer will be sufficient 
on the talks or to engage in the discussions and in the negotiations. 
We do know that notwithstanding the grave difficulties in dealing with 
North Korea, that when the United States was willing to engage in 
bilateral talks with North Korea, we made some progress. We thought the 
North Korean leadership was impossible, but we were able to work 
through it.

Similarly, in dealing with Libya and Qadhafi, we were able to work 
out an arrangement where Libya, Qadhafi, stopped the development of 
nuclear weapons. Qadhafi is the greatest terrorist in the history of 
the world; with very heavy competition, the greatest terrorist in the 
history of the world. He blew up Pan Am 103. It was proved that he did 
it. He made reparations to the passengers. He blew up a discotheque in 
Germany, killed American soldiers. Yet through discussions, through 
talks, he has been brought back into the so-called family of nations. 
Libya has a seat on the Security Council. It is hard for me, frankly, 
to understand how we have gone that far with Libya, but that goes to 
show how far we can go.

As these talks proceed, it would be my hope the United States would 
show flexibility. When the Secretary of State talks about their having 
2 weeks to respond, I don't think that is the way negotiators deal in 
putting on time limits. Iran responded, apparently, according to the 
media reports, with a long written statement which was not 
understandable. But they have quite a number of points which they want 
to make. I have had the opportunity, and have discussed this on the 
Senate floor at some length, of having a number of discussions with the 
current Iranian Ambassador to the U.N. and the previous two 
Ambassadors. There are people from Iran whom you can talk to in a 
sensible way. But a demand on a precondition that they stop processing 
nuclear material, which is the object of the talks, seems to me to be 
totally counterproductive.

I have raised these issues at some considerable length over the 
course of the past year and a half, going back to an appropriations 
hearing on February 27, 2007, when Secretary of State Rice was before 
the committee, posing the issue with her as to why the precondition. I 
had an extensive discussion with her, similarly, with Secretary of 
Defense Gates, in hearings before the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Subcommittee. It is worth noting that when Secretary of 
Defense Gates was on the Commission evaluating United States-Iranian 
relations, he was a party to recommending discussions with Iran. These 
discussions, these lines of questioning and responses are lengthy.

I ask unanimous consent that the full text of the statement be 
printed in the Record.