---
---

# INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `8d7142aebad0f302390c4e413e7571e8`
`Ms. PELOSI — 11 March 2008`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of the 
Intelligence Committee for his leadership on protecting the American 
people. In addition to being Chair of the Intelligence Committee, he 
has served for many years on the Armed Services Committee. He brings to 
his position on Intelligence the commitment that we all have, to 
protecting the American people, to building a strong military second to 
none to do that, to protect the American people. He knows that force 
protection is one of the main priorities of intelligence, to protect 
our forces, and when they are in harm's way, to make sure they have the 
intelligence to prevail.



Mr. Speaker, the New Direction Congress has made strengthening 
national security and improving America's intelligence capabilities a 
top priority. It is our major responsibility, to protect the American 
people.

Our very first piece of legislation, H.R. 1, took the bipartisan 9/11 
Commission recommendations off the shelf, as they had been in the 
Republican Congress, and put them into law to better protect the 
American people. We then began our efforts to strengthen America's 
military, the readiness of which has been greatly depleted by the 
President's failed Iraq policy.

To restore our military strength, we have expanded the size of the 
Army and Marine Corps, passed legislation insisting that only fully 
mission-capable forces be deployed, and funded essential equipment, 
including armored Humvees.

Mr. Speaker, America's security depends on the strength of our 
military as we all know, but also the quality of information gathered 
and analysis provided by the 16 intelligence agencies that make up our 
Nation's intelligence community. As someone who has served on the House 
Intelligence Committee now as a member and ex officio for 16 years, 
longer than anyone in the Congress, I understand that policymakers in 
Congress and in the executive branch must be able to rely on accurate, 
timely, and actionable intelligence. That is why this intelligence 
authorization bill invests in human intelligence, counterterrorism 
operations, and analysis. It is a critical step in protecting our 
Nation. And the President should have signed it into law.



Regrettably, President Bush vetoed these critical investments in our 
intelligence capabilities because this legislation extended the Army 
Field Manual's prohibition on torture to intelligence community 
personnel.

The prohibition on torture that the President vetoed protected our 
values, protected American military and diplomatic personnel, and 
protected Americans by ensuring accurate intelligence. Our Nation is on 
a stronger ground ethically and morally when our practices for holding 
and interrogating captives are consistent with the Geneva Conventions, 
when we do not torture.

We all have our views here about intelligence gathering, analysis and 
dissemination; and, again, much of the focus is on force protection. So 
I look to the words of those who have served in the military for their 
view on this subject.

In the words of Retired RADM Donald Guter, a former Navy Judge 
Advocate General, he says: ''There is no disconnect between human 
rights and national security. They are synergistic. One doesn't work 
without the other for very long.''

Failing to legally prohibit the use of waterboarding and other harsh 
torture techniques also risks the safety of our soldiers and other 
Americans serving overseas. In a letter to the congressional 
Intelligence Committee chairmen, 30 retired generals and admirals, 
including General Joseph Hoar, the former head of the U.S. Central 
Command, the command that oversees our military activities in the Iraq 
region, the Middle East and greater Middle East area, those 30 retired 
generals and admirals, looking again to the voices of those who have 
led in the military, stated: ''We believe it is vital to the safety of 
our men and women in uniform that the United States not sanction the 
use of interrogation methods it would find unacceptable if inflicted by 
the enemy against captured Americans.''

Many military officials and intelligence professionals have also 
stated that torture is ineffective; it is unlikely to produce the kind 
of timely and reliable information needed to disrupt terrorist plots.

I want to reinforce the message of my colleague, the majority leader, 
Steny Hoyer, in quoting the words of General David Petraeus. As Mr. 
Hoyer just stated, but I think it bears repeating, the words of General 
David Petraeus: ''Some may argue that we would be more effective if we 
sanctioned torture or other expedient methods to obtain information 
from the enemy. That would be wrong,'' General Petraeus said. He went 
on: ''Beyond the basic fact that such actions are illegal, history 
shows that they are frequently neither useful nor necessary.''

These leading military men and women and those of us who support this 
legislation's ban on torture believe that we can and we must protect 
America while preserving our country's deeply held principles.

In the final analysis, our ability to lead the world will depend not 
only on our military might but also on our moral authority. Today, we 
can begin to reassert that moral authority by overriding the 
President's veto.

Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for your leadership.