# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `8d8b5f0a25dbdee62077d84443fa8ea1`
`Mr. SPRATT â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution.

I will be frank to say that I think the time lines are too tight, the 
details are too sketchy; but I recognize this resolution for what it 
is. It is not a general order or master plan for the redeployment of 
our troops in Iraq. This is simply a way to frame the debate with the 
President over how we can most effectively reduce and redeploy the 
170,000 troops now on duty in Iraq. We are, after all, in the 5th year 
of this war.

So far, 3,611 Americans have given their lives, 27,000 have been 
wounded in action. We have spent $450 billion through May, and continue 
spending now at a rate of $10 billion a month. Had we the foresight 3 
years ago, 4 years ago to see these costs, the War Powers Resolution 
would not have secured 100 votes in this House.

Opponents of this resolution claim that we are encroaching on the 
powers of the President as the Commander in Chief. Those who think that 
should read the resolution and read it carefully.

First of all, it does not call for an immediate withdrawal. It allows 
4 months for the reduction in forces to begin. Second, it does not call 
for withdrawal at all. It calls for a reduction of the


number of troops deployed or transition to a limited mission. Third, it 
spells out the limited missions. These include force protection, 
diplomatic protection, pursuit of terrorists, training of Iraqi forces. 
The resolution, far from interfering, defers to the President, allows 
the Pentagon to decide just what is the minimum force level for the 
mission it specifies, provided it justifies its decision.

For the past 3 years, the President has assured us that we would 
stand down American troops as soon as Iraqi troops stood up. Well, that 
is essentially what this resolution does; 135 Iraqi battalions have 
been trained. Many may lack things like logistics to make them 
freestanding fighting units, but surely this is a capacity we can 
supply over the next 6 months or even longer through embedded advisers 
who will remain after April 2008.

This resolution sends the Iraqi troops the message that we are not in 
their country, Iraq, indefinitely, and that the day is fast approaching 
when they must take responsibility for the security of their own 
country.



For the past 2 years the President has told us that benchmarks or 
milestones have been laid down for the Iraqi government to accomplish. 
This week we received a progress report on those metrics showing few 
measurable gains.

So here's our dilemma: Our presence in Iraq, with 170,000 troops, 
allows the Iraqi government an ability to operate, the freedom of 
action it would not otherwise enjoy absent our support. But the Iraqi 
government has exploited that security to avoid doing the very steps 
that are necessary to its becoming a true government of national 
reconciliation, which commands the allegiance of all Iraqis.

Yesterday the Deputy Director for Analysis in the Office of National 
Intelligence told us, ''current political trends are moving the country 
in a negative direction.'' One way to make Iraqi leaders take the reins 
of their own government, establish their government, is to announce 
reduction of our forces in front-line combat troops and their 
transition to a limited mission and make it clear that our commitment 
to their country is not open-ended.

Three or 4 months ago, we were told by the administration it was 
going to undertake a new strategy, a new plan for securing Iraq called 
a surge, concentrated primarily in Baghdad. We now have the early 
results from that. We were told we would know in 3 or 4 months. Three 
or 4 months have passed, and we've only seen casualties increase. There 
have been some successes, sure, and we're thankful for them. And I hope 
it succeeds. But we need a new strategy. We do not have one, and this 
calls for a rethinking of everything. And for these reasons I will vote 
for this resolution, and I encourage my colleagues to do the same.