# MILITARY RESERVIST AND VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS REAUTHORIZATION AND  OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2007
## `8d95a6ba9084ae55ab53f2aabbcee262`
`Mr. ALTMIRE â€” 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. I thank the Chair and the ranking member for their 
continued leadership on these issues, and I especially want to thank my 
good friend from Florida, Mr. Buchanan. It was a pleasure working with 
him to craft this legislation. He was an equal partner in putting this 
bill on the floor today, and I want to recognize his leadership as 
well.

Madam Speaker, with nearly 25 million veterans and over 1 million 
Reservists in the United States, there is a need, and a growing need, 
for an increased commitment by the government to assist veterans and 
Reservists both during and after their service to our Nation. As more 
and more servicemembers return to civilian life after their deployments 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, the opportunities and economic benefits that 
the Federal Government can provide will become even more critical, 
especially for businesses that are owned and operated by veterans.

The brave men and women that put their lives on hold to defend our 
Nation should not have to sacrifice their jobs and their livelihoods. 
Starting and maintaining a small business presents challenges for 
anyone, and, unfortunately, veterans often face unique barriers as a 
result of their military service. The unemployment rate among veterans 
is double the overall national unemployment rate, and over half of all 
self-employed Reservists experience significant income loss when they 
are called to duty.

Over the past 3 years, we have watched as the number of returning 
veterans and Reservists has increased, and that number is only going to 
continue to grow.

While Congress has passed legislation and provided Federal agencies 
with some of the resources necessary to provide entrepreneurial 
opportunities for veterans, I believe that more can be done to relieve 
the burden that is placed on small business owners during and after 
their deployment.

To ensure that the Federal Government is there to assist our 
country's servicemembers, I have introduced the bill that we are 
debating here today, the Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business 
Reauthorization and Opportunity Act. This legislation will support and 
expand entrepreneurial opportunities for veterans and Reservists to 
ensure that their livelihoods are not compromised because of their 
military service.

My bill increases funding for the Small Business Administration's 
Office of Veteran Business Development to $4.4 million and facilitates 
the coordination of all Federal agencies to focus attention on 
increasing the success rate of and opportunities for veteran-owned 
small businesses.

This legislation will make the Advisory Committee on Veterans 
Business Affairs permanent, strengthening the focus and input advisory 
committees can provide to the Federal Government to ensure continued 
commitment to our Nation's veterans. The Advisory Committee has been an 
important source of information for the Federal Government. By making 
the committee permanent, we can continue to improve the support 
provided to veteran and Reservist small business owners.

We will also increase the number of Veteran Business Outreach Centers 
across the country and identify areas that are in need of additional 
assistance to ensure that veterans and Reservists in every region are 
able to keep their businesses afloat.

Through grants of up to $300,000 per year made to Small Business 
Development Centers, this bill will establish the Reservist Enterprise 
Transition and Sustainability program to provide one-on-one counseling 
on management, financing, procurement and regulatory assistance to 
small business owners to help our returning service men and women 
successfully transition to civilian life.

Finally, my legislation makes much-needed improvements to the 
Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan program by requiring 
the SBA to extend the application deadline, raise the maximum loan 
amount and create a pre-consideration process for small businesses 
applying for assistance during military deployment. This is important, 
because currently Reservists can apply for a loan only after 
deployment, when their businesses are already in the red. A pre-
deployment loan would be helpful to many small business owners during 
active duty when the funding is most critical.

Madam Speaker, there is no question that veterans have a unique 
ability to thrive as entrepreneurs. They have the leadership skills and 
work ethic necessary to run a small business and a successful business. 
But we must do more to help veteran entrepreneurs fully meet their 
needs and overcome the unique challenges that they face.

I believe that we owe no greater debt than to our brave men and women 
in uniform, and it is essential that they are afforded every 
opportunity for economic success at home, especially given their 
sacrifices for us abroad.

I strongly support the Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business 
Reauthorization and Opportunity Act, and I ask my colleagues to support 
this important legislation.