---
---

# INTRODUCTION OF VETERANS EDUCATION TUITION SUPPORT ACT OF 2009
## `8d9e97c05fe56c4fd5edea0a01f0a87c`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 18 May 2009`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce 
the Veterans Education Tuition Support Act of 2009 or the VETS Act to 
address some of the difficulties our military personnel face when they 
are activated while attending college.

Thousands of military reservists have been activated to fight in Iraq 
and Afghanistan directly from their college campuses. Unfortunately, 
students who serve in the military face unique hardships when called 
upon to defend the United States.

Most colleges and universities refund tuition and fees to students 
when the activation occurs during the academic calendar. However, 
instances have occurred when a service member has not been reimbursed.

The goal of the VETS Act is to provide our service members with 
certain rights when they are activated while in college to defend our 
country. The legislation requires colleges and universities to refund 
tuition and fees for unearned credit for unexpected withdrawals due to 
activation.

It also sets guidelines for the Department of Education to forgive 
student loans when a student service member for the semester or quarter 
in which the service member is activated to defend the United States.

Madam Speaker, I urge passage of this legislation to give rights and 
protections to the service members activated while attending a college 
or university. This is the least we can do for our brave men and women 
in uniform who sacrifice so much for us.
