---
---

# None
## `8da2788f5eae7a649cb11dcf02bbbaf9`
`Mr. McGOVERN â€” 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, let me go back to the subject that we are 
debating here today, and that is the war in Iraq. Mr. Speaker, we have 
been fighting this war for nearly 5 years. That's longer than we fought 
World War II. My friends on the other side of the aisle have said over 
and over and over, just give the Iraqi Government a chance. Well, Mr. 
Speaker, after 5 years, I say, give me a break.

It is not us, not any of us in this Chamber who are in harm's way. 
But we have sent thousands and thousands and thousands of our fellow 
citizens to battle in Iraq. They are in harm's way. They wake up 
tomorrow in a situation where they are refereeing a civil war, and 
that, Mr. Speaker, in my opinion, is wrong.

My friends on the other side of the aisle talk about al Qaeda. Well, 
we're all worried about al Qaeda, too. That's why we wish we were doing 
the job in Afghanistan better. That's why we wish we weren't so 
diverted from that mission in Iraq that we could actually have better 
results in Afghanistan than we're having right now. We are worried, Mr. 
Speaker, about the fact that al Qaeda is regrouping in Afghanistan, is 
regrouping in Pakistan. That should be a worry to every single Member 
in this Chamber. And yet we are stretched so thin, we are so 
preoccupied in Iraq that we have lost sight of what our central mission 
needs to be.

Mr. Speaker, victory is what is in the best interest of the American 
people. And this war in Iraq has not only diminished our standing in 
the world, it has spread our troops so thin that we can't complete 
missions like the one that we need to be completing in Afghanistan.

Mr. Speaker, too often in this place we talk about numbers instead of 
the people behind those numbers. Yesterday, as I mentioned earlier, 
another three American soldiers lost their lives in Iraq, bringing the 
total to 3,858. Also yesterday, Mr. Speaker, CBS News reported that 
there is an epidemic of suicide among our soldiers and our veterans. 
Thousands and thousands of these men and women have taken their own 
lives. For too many, the war does not end when they return home. And 
behind each one of those numbers is a devastated family, a heartbroken 
father, a new widow, a child without a father. Mr. Speaker, we will be 
paying for this war for a very long, long time.

Now, my friends on the other side of the aisle say we all want the 
war to end, we all want our troops to come home. Well, I say to my 
friends, here is your chance. You have a voice. Use it. You have a 
vote. Use it. You have the opportunity to change the direction of this 
policy. You have the opportunity to force the Iraqi Government to live 
up to its promises. You have the opportunity to finally, finally, honor 
the will of the American people and to safely redeploy our troops. I 
ask my friends to seize that opportunity and to support this bill.