# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL MICHAEL P. BARBERO
## `8dab9ed5a2704e7837664b55addaec06`
`Mr. LEVIN — 31 March 2008`

---

 Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I wish to publicly commend and 
congratulate COL Michael P. Barbero, U.S. Army, upon his retirement 
after 26 years of military service. I have come to know and respect 
Colonel Barbero over the last 4 years, during which time he served as 
the Chief of the Army Senate Liaison Division in the Office of the Army 
Chief of Legislative Liaison. In that capacity, Colonel Barbero was 
instrumental in improving the understanding of senators and staff 
concerning a vast myriad of Army issues, in particular an understanding 
of the Army's role in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the effect 
of those wars on the Army and its soldiers and their families.

Colonel Barbero escorted over 50 congressional delegations, including 
13 to Iraq and 3 to Afghanistan. I myself was privileged to have 
Colonel Barbero as an escort at my specific request on several of my 
own trips to both of those areas. He worked tirelessly to ensure my 
visits were coordinated with all of the relevant agencies and 
individuals so that I could visit the places, meet with the people, and 
deal with the issues that were critical for me as the chairman of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee. I am extremely grateful for the 
service he provided me and my staff during those trips.

Colonel Barbero's Senate assignment was the capstone to an 
outstanding career of service to our Nation. After graduating from the 
U.S. Military Academy at West Point in 1982, Colonel Barbero served as 
an armor officer in command and staff positions in a number of tank and 
cavalry units in the United States and Germany. These assignments 
culminated in a position as the operations officer for the 2nd Brigade 
of the famed 1st Cavalry Division.

Colonel Barbero also served in a number of high-level positions on 
both the Army and Joint Staffs at the Pentagon, as an exercise planner, 
analyst, and strategist. As an assistant professor at the U.S. Military 
Academy, Colonel Barbero played an important role in the development of 
the future officers and leaders of the Army.

Colonel Barbero holds a master of science degree in industrial 
engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology. His military 
awards include the Legion of Merit, Defense Meritorious Medal, 
Meritorious Service Medal, Ranger Tab, Parachutist Badge, and is a 
holder of the Army Armor Association's Order of St. George.

Colonel Barbero is married to the former Vicki Jo Drake of Storm 
Lake, IA. They have two children, Mary--14--and Michael--10. I 
congratulate them too on their husband's and father's retirement from 
the Army. The demands of military life are such that military families 
also sacrifice and serve the Nation along with their soldier.

Mr. President, the Army, the Senate, and the Nation are lucky to have 
had the service of such a great soldier. He will be sorely 
missed.
