---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `8db17b7e5da74d603bdedc0ab4e589f2`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will try to be brief. I appreciate the 
recognition. I wish to speak very briefly on the matter pending before 
the Senate.

The whole idea of the confirmation process of judges has taken a kind 
of wrong turn for many years now. There is plenty of blame to go around 
from both parties. But one thing I wish to have happen in the Senate--
for the good of the country--is to make sure when well-qualified people 
come before this body, they are put through their paces about their 
qualifications, their abilities, their disposition, their demeanor, 
inquiring as to how they think and what drives their thinking, but, at 
the same time, understanding that our job is to confirm people who are 
sent over by the President--elections do matter--and that when we look 
at a nominee, we part the politics of the last election, of the next 
election, and focus on the individual who will serve for a lifetime.

It is important to understand the nominee before this body, Mr. 
Southwick, has been serving as a judge in Mississippi since 1995. As 
Senator Specter indicated, he has been involved in thousands of 
decisions in a concurring role, and he has offered hundreds of 
decisions.

He joined the military, and volunteered, as a lieutenant colonel to 
go serve in Iraq at the age of 52.

The American Bar Association unanimously considered him well 
qualified, saying very glowing things about his temperament, his 
disposition. This is someone who has been looked at by people outside 
of politics and found to be extremely well qualified.