---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `8db571a8bba43b6cc76ea27fde97575e`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. I rise very quickly in support of the Isakson 
amendment. There is currently a waiver to the Berry amendment in place 
which allows companies to import the fire-resistant rayon from foreign 
countries.

Let me be very clear. The jobs that go with the manufacture of these 
uniforms for the Army and Marines are U.S. jobs. All of these uniforms 
are made in the United States. But this fabric is used by TenCate, 
Incorporated, to make its Defender M fabric to produce fire-resistant 
uniforms for both the Army and the Marines.

The material is not made in the United States due to EPA standards. 
This is a classic example of where EPA standards can be too stringent 
to allow U.S. manufacturers to operate. And, the reason is, it is cost 
prohibitive to do so.

The current waiver, which includes a 5-year sunset clause, was 
included in the 2008 Defense authorization bill after a tremendous 
effort by my colleague, Senator Isakson, and obviously is set to 
expire.

The Army's PEO Soldier expressed very strongly that FR rayon is the 
superior fabric based upon key selection criteria. The criteria were 
cost, comfort, durability, and length of time before receiving third-
degree burns. We have had some very serious situations, obviously, that 
have occurred with burns in both Iraq and Afghanistan. That is why the 
Army and the Marines like this uniform.

We buy 115,000 new FR uniforms every month. This uniform is superior 
because of the fact that we have been able to import this fabric with 
the Berry amendment waiver. It is, in my opinion, imperative that we 
continue for the competition. The uniforms are still competitively bid. 
So it is not like we are taking anybody out of the marketplace.

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the Isakson amendment.

I yield the floor.










Amendment No. 1657, as Further Modified
