# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8dd5f418145f03dd76a77defa01db36d`
`Ms. PRYCE of Ohio — 14 February 2007`

---


Ms. PRYCE of Ohio. I thank the gentleman for yielding. And I 
especially thank you for your leadership on the floor through this very 
important debate, a hard debate for us here in the House of 
Representatives and a hard debate for this country.

But, Mr. Speaker, a new plan is being implemented, a new plan with 
political, economic and military components. Reinforcements are on 
their way even as we speak. The Iraqis do need to do their part, we 
know that. President Maliki tells us that they will. And if we 
reinforce now, they will take it over. They will stand up because they 
must, and then we will come home.

Mr. Speaker, not everyone believes that this is a good plan. It is 
sophisticated, it is comprehensive, but not everyone agrees that it is 
the right plan, and I understand that.

This war certainly hasn't achieved its intended results. The 
President said ''stay the course,'' and some said no. The President now 
says, ''change the course,'' and the same folks say no. That's fair; we 
have room in this great Nation to disagree. But if that is the case, 
that you don't want to stay the course or change the course, then use 
the tools and the powers available to you to stop the course.

The tools are at your disposal, the power of the purse to defund the 
effort. You could repeal the authorization that most of us voted for 
this in 2002. You could require troop withdrawal. You have that power 
and you have that right. But, Mr. Speaker, with the world watching, 
with Islamic fundamentalists, jihadists, just waiting, and with


our troops working tirelessly to protect and defend us, don't pass this 
pointless resolution.

If it meant anything, it would be a different argument, but it won't 
bring one soldier home sooner and it won't change the course of this 
war. It has no teeth, no muscle; but most of all, it has no positive 
value whatsoever for us as a Nation at war. Some people say it sends a 
message to our Commander in Chief, and I believe that that is true. But 
that message pales compared to the message it sends to our enemies; our 
enemies, who pledge that their jihad will last until their religion 
prevails in the world; not until we are out of Iraq, until their 
religion prevails in the world; our enemies, who believe it is their 
religious duty to bring hostility to the West and to America. They are 
tuned in today, Mr. Speaker, you better believe it, and no doubt they 
are cheering.

But what this message says to our enemies and to the President and to 
everybody else in the world is nothing compared to what it says to our 
troops. This resolution says, Your cause is lost. This impatient 
Congress says, Thanks, but we have had our fill. This resolution says 
to our troops that your cause is no longer worthy and your friends have 
died in vain. And today we learn that this is only the first step in 
the slow-bleed strategy.

We can't say in the first paragraph that we support them and in the 
next paragraph that we can't reinforce them. We can't say that first we 
honor our troops and their service, and in the next breath say that 
their cause really isn't worth it after all.

Mr. Speaker, our military leaders have a plan. They don't have 
guarantees, there are no guarantees in war. General David Petraeus 
asked for these troops. I met him when I was in Iraq. He is one of the 
country's most qualified, brilliant military leaders. He says this is 
what is needed.

This plan gives our troops the help they need and gives the Iraqi 
Government a last chance to stand up and take over. This resolution 
rejects the only plan on the table. If we reject this plan, then what 
should we do? We will be at the status quo. What should we do to keep 
this country free from terror for another 5 years? What should we do to 
show solidarity? Nothing? What we should do, Mr. Speaker, is defeat 
this resolution. Don't demoralize our troops.