# CONGRATULATING THE ARMY RESERVE ON ITS CENTENNIAL
## `8dfce67d0df3ade0af5f148e973f4137`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 8 April 2008`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise today in support of H.J. Res. 70, which commemorates 2008 as 
the centennial of the United States Army Reserve, celebrating the 
historic contributions of its veterans and continuing contributions of 
its soldiers to operations at home and abroad. I thank my colleague, 
Mr. Bishop of Georgia, for introducing this important resolution.



On January 9, 1905, the 26th President of the United States, Theodore 
Roosevelt, dispatched a special message to the Senate and the House of 
Representatives recommending passage of legislation to establish a 
Federal Reserve force of trained personnel to bring our Army to its 
highest point of efficiency.

Beginning as a supplementary unit at the turn of the 20th century, 
our Army Reserve soldiers have shown immeasurable dedication and valor 
through the broadening of their inceptive purpose. The Army Reserve has 
developed from a few support troops during World War I into a vital and 
sustained operational force for current and future operations. This 
Federal force has been deployed in different capacities, serving in 
eight wars and defending the interests of the United States and its 
allies in World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Russia, Berlin, 
Panama, the Persian Gulf, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo, Kenya, Iraq 
and numerous humanitarian missions in other countries during its first 
100 years. Involvement in operations Desert Storm, Desert Shield, Joint 
Endeavor, Joint Guard, Enduring Freedom, Noble Eagle, and Iraqi Freedom 
shows the Army is incomplete without the skilled and trained personnel 
of its Reserve.

The Army Reserve has grown from 160 medical officers to virtually 
200,000 soldiers who play a major role in the defense of our Nation and 
who continue in the furtherance of the United States defense interests.

At this moment approximately 50,000 of our Nation's Army Reserve 
soldiers are serving on active duty around the world. These men and 
women voluntarily put their civilian careers and family lives on hold. 
And in most cases, they do so for over a year which is a testament to 
their selflessness, patriotism, and willingness to sacrifice for the 
good of our country.

Indeed, I am extremely proud of all of our Armed Forces: the Army, 
the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps and the National Guard. Our 
entire military continues to work diligently in a time of conflict, and 
deserves the highest respect for their courage in the face of 
adversity.

H.J. Res. 70 is our way, as the United States Congress, of 
recognizing the centennial of our Army Reserve, a force that our 
institution played a role in creating 100 years ago. This resolution 
honors the sacrifice and tremendous distinction of the millions of 
American men and women who have served as Army soldiers since April 23, 
1908.

Madam Speaker, I again thank our colleague from Georgia (Mr. Bishop) 
for his initiative in bringing us together today to recognize and honor 
the Army Reserve on the occasion of its 100th anniversary, and I urge 
my colleagues to support the resolution.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.