---
---

# EMMETT TILL UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS CRIME ACT
## `8e00bd43cf588791f46440e4139e483d`
`Mr. REID — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, in 2004, when I was selected by my peers as 
the Democratic leader, the first public appearance I made following the 
vote we had, I walked out to the press and said I would rather dance 
than fight. I still feel that way. I was elected to the Senate because 
the people of Nevada knew I was a good Democrat but that I always would 
eagerly reach across the table and find common ground wherever 
possible. I guess I learned that in the courtroom in working cases. You 
have to be willing to compromise in the law, as you do in politics. I 
have a strong conviction, that is true.

There is no better example of that than my relationship with John 
Ensign. John Ensign, the junior Senator from Nevada, and I had a bitter 
race in 1998. He was a Member of Congress. I was a sitting Senator. He 
ran against me. That was a close race. No one ever thought we would 
wind up in the Senate together, but as fortune spins, Senator Bryant 
unexpectedly decided not to run for reelection, and John Ensign was 
able to come to the Senate.

For 8 years, we have worked to develop a relationship that has turned 
into a strong friendship. John Ensign and I, though we disagree on some 
political issues, never, ever publicly or privately discuss our 
differences politically.

I mention that because we need in the Senate to work together. Even 
though we may have different political views on different aspects of 
Government, we need to work together. It may not be apparent to those 
who watch the daily skirmishes of the Senate from afar, but I try to 
approach every issue in this Congress with the same eagerness to find 
common ground that I do working with Senator Ensign.

There have been occasions--not often enough--where Republican 
colleagues have joined Democrats in the pursuit of progress. When they 
have chosen that path, we have, together, accomplished some very good 
things for the American people, even in this work period, which has 
seen some bitter partisanship. While it will be remembered probably for 
the Republican obstructionism that has occurred, we can still look and 
find examples of significant bipartisan compromise.

At a time when we see such interesting things around the country that 
need so much help, we have been able to pass legislation in one area of 
great concern: housing. We passed a comprehensive housing bill. The 
housing crisis has been uprooting families and wreaking havoc in 
neighborhoods across the country for far too long. It was a struggle to 
get this bill passed. Never in the history of the country, I am told, 
has there been a bill that has passed the Congress where we have had 
seven filibusters on one bill--the same bill--at the same time. We had 
one filibuster right after the other, seven of them, but we finally got 
to the finish line on housing. It is a good piece of legislation. Some 
8,500 families who receive foreclosure notices every day will not be 
confronted with that in many instances because of the legislation we 
passed.

During this work period, we also passed the Medicare doctors fix--the 
salvation of Medicare is what it was--and we did that by overriding the 
senseless veto by the President of the United States. We were only able 
to do that because right down here stood Senator Ted Kennedy, a man who 
should not have been here. He was not supposed to be flying. He wasn't 
supposed to be around crowds, and of course there were lots of crowds 
that


were here--everyone wanted to be around him--and he stood here and cast 
the deciding vote that broke the impasse. We had 60 votes. After we got 
60 votes, the Republicans in good will joined and allowed us to save 
Medicare. It took the courage of Ted Kennedy, rising from his sick bed 
against doctors' orders, to cast the deciding vote. Because he did, and 
enough Republicans joined with us, we renewed the long-held American 
promise that the elderly, the disabled and the orphans and widows will 
receive the health care they need.

We also passed, during this work period, a bill that is a test to 
America's charity and moral authority in the world, the so-called 
PEPFAR bill. This legislation provides an unprecedented level of 
support for the fight against AIDS in Africa. It is not often I have 
occasion to praise the President, but he did a good job on this, and I 
commend him for helping us. I am glad that even after we had struggles 
for months at a time, Senate Republicans joined with the President and 
Senate Democrats to choose to end their obstruction and allow us to 
pass that legislation.

Late yesterday, we wrapped up work on an important piece of 
legislation. We did it at the end of this work period. In fact, we did 
it on two important pieces of legislation: consumer product safety and 
the higher education bill, both very important pieces of legislation. 
At a time when parents are rightly more concerned than ever about the 
safety of the toys they buy for their children, the consumer product 
safety legislation gives parents and all consumers new assurance that 
the goods we buy are fully tested and approved for safe use. That 
applies to the stereotype, which is the toys the children use in 
America, but it is far broader than that. With rare exception, it is 
everything we consume in America today now will be safe.

The Higher Education Act had not been reauthorized in some 10 years 
until last night. Of course, it was long overdue, but since we passed 
it, millions of bright young American minds will have the opportunity 
to unlock the doors of opportunity a college education provides.

Our country will be stronger for every one of the bills we passed 
this work period--every one of them. I wish we had passed a lot more. 
Those we did are important. I am glad we did it. As with any 
legislation, when you pass a bill, there are lots of accolades to be 
passed around. When you don't pass a bill, there is a lot of blame to 
go around.

I feel a lot of disappointment, though, when I think back upon this 
work period and wonder what might have been, what might we have 
accomplished if our Republican colleagues had decided to dance with us 
more often than fight. We could have gone a long way toward solving 
America's energy crisis. Yesterday was a microcosm for why the Senate 
failed to do so. Democrats came to the floor to offer seven different 
energy initiatives. Our plan would tackle every piece of the energy 
puzzle: Increasing supply with more domestic production, meaning 
increasing supply with more American production; reducing demand by 
investing in clean and renewable alternatives; going after those who 
keep oil prices artificially high for their own financial gain; and 
helping those in need pay their skyrocketing heating bills.

Earlier today, a group of 10 Senators--5 Republicans, 5 Democrats--
indicated they had done some work to come up with a proposal that they 
think would help the energy crisis. I have been kept informed of how 
this has been progressing, and I am glad they have worked on what they 
did. They have worked very hard. There are many good ideas. Do I agree 
with everything they did? No, I don't agree with everything, but even 
the 10 don't agree with everything in the package.

I look forward to working with them. We are going to work with this 
group in a number of different ways. First of all, the information we 
got from them is important. I am going to hold a summit in Las Vegas on 
August 19--an energy summit, a clean energy summit. President Clinton 
will be there, Mayor Bloomberg, T. Boone Pickens, the Governors of 
Utah, Arizona, Colorado. We have people from the private sector, the 
public sector coming to talk about what we can do to wean ourselves 
from fossil fuel.

Also, the week we get back in September, we are going to have an 
energy summit of Democrats, a bipartisan energy summit, to see if there 
is any way we can work together to move forward--move forward on things 
that are so important to this country, such as having multiple year 
energy tax credits so we can wean ourselves from the fossil fuels and 
look to the Sun, the wind, and geothermal for our energy. I certainly 
hope we can do that.

Republicans have said no to every proposal we have made. Because they 
did, the American people will have to wait for short- and long-term 
solutions to the energy crisis. That truly is unfortunate.

With more Republican cooperation, we could have passed mental health 
parity. That is so important. It is a bipartisan bill to ensure equal 
access to health care for people with mental illness. We were prevented 
from doing that.

With more Republican cooperation, we could have passed a package of 
13 bipartisan bills that Republicans blocked. That package includes the 
Emmett Till unsolved crimes bill which would help heal old wounds and 
provide the Department of Justice and the FBI tools needed to 
effectively investigate and possibly solve civil rights-era murders.

The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act would provide grants for health 
care, education and workforce programs and housing programs for runaway 
and homeless youth.

The combating child exploitation bill would provide grants to train 
law enforcement to use technology to track individuals who trade in 
child pornography and establish an Internet crimes against children 
task force.

The Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act would enhance 
cooperation in research, rehabilitation, and quality of life with 
people who suffer from paralysis.

LIHEAP, a bill that was called Cool In Summer, Warm In Winter Act to 
provide relief to the aged, the disabled, and the poor so they can have 
energy assistance to cool their homes in summertime, heat their homes 
in the wintertime--the Republicans turned it down.

We were amazed that Republicans said no to these bills and many 
others, but they did, and that is unfortunate.

The list of critical priorities we could have done something about 
with even a small degree of Republican cooperation is no longer 
available to us now. It would have been nice if we could have done the 
list. The list of things we copuld have done is far longer than I can 
recite today, but I say that because Republicans chose the path of 
obstruction. The good we did is far outweighed by the good that could 
have been. Of course, that is disappointing to all of us.

When you strip away the differences between the McCain Republican 
approach to energy and the Democratic approach to high gas prices, you 
find the Republican policy is the Exxon policy, and our policy is an 
energy policy. The Republicans have a one-word policy: drill. That is 
the Exxon policy. Our approach, the Democratic approach is No. 1, drill 
where appropriate, but also develop competition for oil by encouraging 
solar, wind, geothermal. The Republicans say no because it will lower 
oil prices, and that is not what Exxon wants. Our policy is to increase 
the supply now by releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
The Republicans say no because it will lower oil prices and that is not 
what Exxon wants.

No. 3, we say go after financial speculators. The Republicans say no 
because that would lower the price of oil, and that is not what Exxon 
wants.

No. 4, we say invest in new car battery technology. The Republicans 
say no because that will lower oil prices, and that is not what Exxon 
wants.

The Republicans' affection for Exxon explains why they say no to even 
allowing us to debate issues that are so important. No, no, no is what 
Exxon wants--to keep oil prices high.

That is too bad.

When we return in September, we need to get right back to work. We 
have just a few weeks to get a lot done. Perhaps by then, though, the 
political winds will blow in a different direction, and the Republicans 
will return with a new willingness to work together. If they do, we can 
work out a bipartisan plan on energy that meets our country's near- and 
long-term needs.



We can send the American people a new economic stimulus bill to help 
families make ends meet and strengthen an economy that has now lost 
jobs every month this year.

We can pass the Defense authorization bill that provides our military 
with the funds they need to keep our country safe. It takes care of 
those who serve us bravely with an across-the-board 3.9-percent 
military pay raise and major investments in the physical safety and 
mental health of our troops, not the least of which is attempting to 
rebuild the military which is in a state of distress because of the 
Iraq war.

We can pass a Military Construction/Veterans Affairs appropriations 
bill to maintain and upgrade military facilities, build better military 
family housing, and ensure the care our veterans deserve.

We can pass a Defense appropriations bill to keep our Armed Forces 
prepared for combat and peacetime missions, relieve the strain of 
constant 12- and now 15-month deployments, and support highly 
classified initiatives in the fight against terrorism.

With the Presidential election drawing near, our time will be short. 
But with new cooperation from our Republican colleagues, we can do all 
this--and pass several other important bipartisan bills already passed 
by the House of Representatives.

So I wish all my colleagues well in their August travels. I know we 
are all weary from the long, difficult work period.

I also know the fights that await our return won't be easy. I hope a 
month back home will give our Republican colleagues a new appreciation 
for how America needs badly the changes they have blocked.

Our hands remain outstretched. Our eagerness to seek common ground 
remains as strong as ever. We will fight if we must, but we would much 
rather dance.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.