---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `8e059efe00e8094a338d972e419ed9f0`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the situation in 
Iraq and the continuing efforts of this administration and my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle to paint a rosy picture, when 
the situation in Iraq suggests otherwise.

First, I thank Senator Carl Levin for the good work that he and the 
committee have done on drafting the Defense authorization bill. Next, I 
would like to take a few minutes to discuss Senator Feingold's 
amendment.

I am a cosponsor of the Feingold amendment because I believe it is 
imperative that we change the mission in Iraq to reflect the ugly 
reality on the ground.

We are worse off today in Iraq than we were 6 months ago. The 
position of America, democracy and stability continue to erode. If 
there was ever a need for a change of course in Iraq, it is now.

Despite the fact that 70 percent of Iraqis believe that the surge has 
worsened the overall security and political situation of their country, 
it remains terribly clear that President Bush and my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle are equally determined to maintain our present, 
failing course in Iraq.

Months ago, the violence in Iraq devolved into a civil war between 
the Shiites and the Sunnis, and U.S. troops are still stuck in the 
middle. Our troops have no business policing a civil war.

And the fundamentals in Iraq stay the same: there is no central 
government and the Shiites, the Sunnis and the Kurds dislike one 
another far more than they like or want any central government. This 
dooms the administration's policy in Iraq to failure.


That is why I am here in support of the Feingold amendment. This 
amendment will ensure that most our troops will be safely redeployed 
from Iraq by next summer, and those that remain will undertake a 
mission that reflects the reality in Iraq.

U.S. troops will conduct limited counterterrorism missions, and they 
will train Iraqi security forces that support the U.S. mission. We will 
not train Iraqis that have attacked U.S. troops.

This amendment will make sure that U.S. troops are no longer policing 
a civil war between the Sunnis and the Shiites. It will let the Maliki 
Government know that U.S. troops will not, nor cannot, remain in Iraq 
indefinitely. Only that understanding will make the Maliki Government 
move forward in the difficult process of political reconciliation that 
Iraq needs.

The Democratic Congress will continue to fight this administration's 
failing policy, and help chart a new way forward in Iraq. This 
amendment is the first step in that direction, and I strongly urge all 
my colleagues to support it.

I salute my colleague from Wisconsin for his undaunted leadership. He 
is way ahead of his time on this issue. I am a cosponsor of the 
Feingold amendment because I believe it is imperative we change the 
mission in Iraq to reflect the ugly reality on the ground. We are worse 
off today in Iraq than we were 6 months ago. Our troops are doing an 
excellent job--make no mistake about it--but if the whole purpose was 
to strengthen the Government, by every standard the Government is 
weaker. Despite the fact that 70 percent of Iraqis believe the surge 
has worsened the overall security and political situation of their 
country, it remains terribly clear that President Bush and my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle are equally determined to 
maintain our present failing course in Iraq. To change that course does 
not require weak medicine. It requires strong medicine. That is what 
the Feingold amendment is.

Months ago, the violence in Iraq devolved into a civil war between 
the Shiites and Sunnis, and U.S. troops are stuck in the middle. Our 
troops have no business policing a civil war, and we should not 
continue to do that with our troops, with our dollars, and with the 
heart and soul of this Nation. We must change course, and we must do 
what it takes to change course.

That is why I support the Feingold amendment. It will ensure that 
most of our troops will be safely redeployed from Iraq by next summer, 
and those who remain will undertake a mission that reflects the reality 
in Iraq. This amendment will make sure U.S. troops are no longer 
policing a civil war between Sunnis and Shiites. It will let the Maliki 
Government know U.S. troops will not remain in Iraq indefinitely. Only 
that understanding will make the Iraqi Government move forward.

The Democratic Congress will continue to fight this administration's 
failing policy until we change it. One of the best tools we have to do 
that is the amendment offered by the Senator from Wisconsin.

I yield the floor.