---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `8e0985d7c3f1561286a4c8ea6c1c3ec3`
`Mr. CASTLE — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information 
regarding funding benefitting the State of Delaware included in H.R. 
3326, the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act.

Name of Intended Recipient: Delaware National Guard

Location: First Regiment Rd, Wilmington, DE 19808

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: DRUGS

Name of Project: Delaware National Guard Counterdrug Task Force

Project Description: The Act includes $300,000 to provide counterdrug 
support to federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies and to 
Community Based Organizations requesting Drug Demand Reduction 
Assistance. Funding will provide unique military support and resources 
to our police agencies which enable the police to concentrate more 
police resources to other priorities in their department. Increased 
funding from federal appropriations will permit the Delaware National 
Guard to provide support to open requests from the FBI, Delaware State 
Police, and local authorities. It will also enable the Delaware Guard 
to expand its Drug Education Program.

Name of Intended Recipient: WL Gore & Associates

Location: 555 Paper Mill Rd., Newark, DE 19711

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: OM, DW

Name of Project: Special Operations Forces Modular Glove System

Project Description: The Act includes $4,780,000 to accelerate the 
fielding of the Modular Glove System for U.S. Special Operations Forces 
(SOF). This is a five piece system that provides the war fighter the 
necessary protection across a wide range of climactic conditions. 
Developed to be compatible with the SOF's Protective Combat Uniform 
designed for frigid conditions, this SOF Modular Glove System provides 
cold weather protection to -50 degrees as well as waterproof protection 
in wet conditions. The Special Operations Command has an established 
requirement for a Modular Glove System to better meet the real-world 
mission needs of its SOF in a broad range of deployed environments. 
This funding would accelerate the fielding by about one year to ensure 
all U.S. SOF forces in theater have access to this high technology, 
readiness enhancing system.

Name of Intended Recipient: University of Delaware

Location: Hullihen Hall, Newark, DE 19716

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, A

Name of Project: Composite Applied Research and Technology for FCS 
and Tactical Vehicle Survivability

Project Description: The Act includes $3,200,000 to rapidly advance 
the Technology Readiness Level of existing and promising new ultra-
lightweight composite structures and armor for combat and light, medium 
and heavy tactical vehicle applications. Using heavy materials such as 
steel and aluminum will continue to result in vehicles that are too 
heavy to transport and will overload vehicles--which reduces life, 
increases maintenance costs and requires more frequent vehicle 
replacement. The project is addressing the critical needs of the U.S. 
Army to protect our soldiers and provide them with the best equipment 
to carry out their missions. Lightweight composite vehicle structures 
and armor increase mobility and mission payloads while increasing 
soldier protection against direct fire, improvised explosive devices 
and explosively formed penetrators.

Name of Intended Recipient: INVISTA
S.a r.l.

Location: 2801 Centerville Road, Wilmington, DE 19808

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, A

Name of Project: Improved Thermal Resistant Nylon for Enhanced 
Durability and Thermal Protection in Combat Uniforms

Project Description: The Act includes $3,200,000 to increase the 
safety and protection of U.S. soldiers with improved flame resistant, 
durable, and lower cost materials for the U.S. Army combat uniforms. 
These improvements will meet an urgent need due to the threat of 
Improvised Explosive Devices (IED). This project will fund and 
accelerate research, development, testing, and evaluation for nylon 
fiber development, fiber formulation, fabric scale up and performance 
blend specification for U.S. Army combat uniforms.

Name of Intended Recipient: ILC Dover LP

Location: One Moonwalker Road, Frederica, DE 19946-2080

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, DW

Name of Project: Joint Services Aircrew Mask Don/Doff Inflight 
Upgrade

Project Description: The Act includes $2,400,000 for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation of a Joint Services Aircrew Mask, 
which will provide above the neck Chemical, Biological, and Anti-G 
protection to DoD aircrew personnel. The mask is a hood that goes over 
the wearer's head and seals at the neck. This project will enhance our 
military's mission capability while minimizing performance degradation 
in chemical and biological contaminated scenarios.

Name of Intended Recipient: Piasecki Aircraft Corporation

Location: 2nd Street West, Essington, PA 19029

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, N

Name of Project: X-49A Envelope Expansion Modifications

Project Description: The Act includes $3,600,000 to conduct flight 
demonstrations at New Castle County Airport in Delaware on the Vectored 
Thrust Ducted Propeller (VTDP) Compound Helicopter technology's 
potential to increase rotorcraft speed, range, and survivability. These 
funds will cover the cost of design, fabrication, assembly, 
instrumentation and check out of propulsion and control system 
modifications that will enable flight beyond the current operating 
limits of the baseline conventional helicopter. Many current US combat 
and humanitarian operations require rotorcraft capabilities well beyond 
those of existing fleet helicopters.

Name of Intended Recipient: ANP Technologies, Inc.

Location: 824 Interchange Blvd., Newark, DE 19711

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, DW

Name of Project: NIDS Handheld Common Identifier for Biological 
Agents

Project Description: The Act includes $2,400,000 for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation to develop a handheld device for 
detection of a variety of biological warfare agent related bacteria and 
viruses. According to the Report of the Commission on the Prevention of 
Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism (released in 
December 2008), a biological attack is more likely to be used by 
terrorists than any other weapons of mass destruction in the near 
future. The proposed handheld common identifier for biological agents 
will allow war fighters to perform rapid, on-site biological agent 
tests during threat situations.

Name of Intended Recipient: University of Delaware

Location: Hullihen Hall, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, N

Name of Project: Advanced Composite Maritime Manufacturing

Project Description: The Act includes $1,600,000 to research and 
develop design, engineering and manufacturing technologies for U.S. 
Navy ship structures based on advanced lightweight composite materials. 
The objective of this project is to keep Navy, SOCOM (Special 
Operations Command), and Coast Guard craft at the forefront of 
technology, and help insure superiority of the US military in the water 
over current and future adversaries. The application of these materials 
and technologies will provide ship structures that are optimally 
engineered, and manufactured using state-of-the-art methods to provide 
the highest performance at the lowest cost.

Name of Intended Recipient: University of Delaware

Location: Hullihen Hall, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, N

Name of Project: Millimeter Wave Imaging

Project Description: The Act includes $1,360,000 for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation to develop real-time millimeter-
wave imaging to allow U.S. soldiers to see in harsh conditions, 
including dust, fog, sand, and clouds. Millimeter wave imaging systems 
are able to image through smoke, fog, marine layer, blowing dust and 
sand, and fabric. The technology development is supported by the Office 
of Naval Research with the intent to deploy systems on military 
helicopters landing in harsh environments such as the ''brownout'' 
conditions faced when landing in the deserts of places such as 
Afghanistan and Iraq. It will also improve situational awareness of 
Naval


vessels, particularly when close to the shore or at ports.

Name of Intended Recipient: University of Delaware

Location: Hullihen Hall, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, A

Name of Project: Cybersecurity in Tactical Environments

Project Description: The Act includes $800,000 for research, 
development, testing and evaluation to detect vulnerabilities and 
intrusions in the U.S. Army's battlefield networks.

The U.S. Army uses mobile computer networks to both communicate 
between soldiers, and between soldiers and their weapons systems. This 
concept is called network centric warfare, and the security and 
availability of this network is critical to combat operations. The 
project will focus on detection of data exfiltration in tactical 
networks, intrusion detection in mobile ad-hoc networks, detection of 
malicious hardware and software components, and detecting security 
threats in commercial off the shelf (COTS) wireless networking 
equipment.

Name of Intended Recipient: Fraunhofer USA Center for Molecular 
Biotechnology

Location: 9 Innovation Way, Suite 200, Newark, DE 19711

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: RDTE, DW

Name of Project: Army Plant Vaccine Development Program

Project Description: The Act includes $1,600,000 for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation to deliver a combined multivalent 
one-shot vaccine to protect the U.S. Armed Forces and civilian 
communities against plague and anthrax. This quick response ability can 
assist communities around the world with mass therapeutic treatment or 
for mass vaccination in the event of bioterrorist attack or natural 
disease outbreak such as an avian influenza.

Name of Intended Recipient: Delaware National Guard

Location: First Regiment Road, Wilmington, DE 19805

Requesting Member: Congressman Michael N. Castle

Account: OP, A

Name of Project: Phoenix Quad-Band Satellite Receiver for the 
Delaware National Guard

Project Description: The Act includes $3,200,000 for a mobile 
communications terminal to provide the Delaware National Guard with 
improved high data rate exchanges between various satellites and ground 
communications systems in secure and non-secure digital formats.
