# TRIBUTE TO COLONEL PHILIP C. SKUTA
## `8e0bb5a55af4359aaa4c8e7aff512dc2`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize COL Phil Skuta, 
USMC, who will complete his tour of duty with the U.S. Marine Corps' 
Office of Legislative Affairs on July 15, 2010. In his role as the 
director of the Marine Corps' Senate Liaison Office, he has provided 
excellent support by ensuring the smooth and timely passage of 
information from the Marine Corps to Senators and their staffs. His 
sense of duty and responsibility contributed to a successful 
relationship between the U.S. Senate and the U.S. Marine Corps. His 
dedication to serving the U.S. Senate will be missed.

A native of Williamsport, PA, Colonel Skuta attended the University 
of Pittsburgh and received a commission as a second lieutenant in the 
U.S. Marine Corps in 1987. His career as a Marine officer has been 
varied and admirable. Prior to his assignment to the U.S. Senate, he 
served on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in the Strategic Plans and Policy 
Directorate. Before that, he led 1,200 marines, soldiers, and sailors 
in combat in Iraq in 2004 as a battalion task force commander. Over the 
past 24 months, his excellent work, leadership of his liaison team, and 
example of professionalism have served the Senate well and reflected 
credit on the U.S. Marine Corps.

Upon his arrival as director of the U.S. Senate Marine Corps Liaison 
Office, Colonel Skuta assumed and upheld the distinguished standard set 
by his predecessors. His approach to resolving complex issues allowed 
him to advise and inform Members and their staffs of Marine Corps 
plans, policies, programs, and worldwide activities. Despite the 
fluidity of legislative process, Colonel Skuta established and 
developed productive working relationships through engagement 
opportunities.

As liaison officer to the Senate, Colonel Skuta represented the 
Marine Corps on all Marine-related matters and effectively articulated 
the Marine Corps' most difficult and challenging legislative 
initiatives to Members and staff. He has been an integral player in 
maintaining effective relationships between the Marine Corps, my 
colleagues in the Senate, professional committee staff, and personal 
staff members. In particular, he responded to hundreds of congressional 
inquiries, ranging from such sensitive issues as notification of combat 
casualties from the Afghanistan and Iraq campaigns to providing timely 
information on the operation, organization, and budget of the Marine 
Corps. He also planned and executed dozens of international 
congressional delegations. I had the pleasure of traveling on two of 
these congressional delegations with Colonel Skuta and was impressed 
with his service to the Members of the Senate. He reflected well on his 
service at numerous Marine Corps and joint social events on Capitol 
Hill. Among others, these events included


the Marine Corps Birthday Commemoration, the Joint Services Reception, 
the Marine Corps Marathon, and several Marine Corps seasonal 
receptions.

On behalf of the Senate, I thank Colonel Skuta for his continued 
service to the Nation and the U.S. Marine Corps, and I thank his wife 
Jane for her steadfast support while he fulfilled this essential duty. 
We in the U.S. Senate, and I personally, wish them all the best as Phil 
departs to assume duties as Director of the Marine Corps' Strategic 
Initiatives Group at Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, Washington, DC.

Semper Fi!
