---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `8e17f6d0f749317c8d4e0174eac109ff`
`Mrs. BOXER — 1 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. This President's policies left unchecked have been a 
disaster. And what does he want? More of the same. He criticizes us for 
coming up with a new policy, and this new policy will work because it 
combines a gradual redeployment of troops, a focus on getting al-Qaida, 
a focus on training the Iraqis, with a focus on diplomacy and a 
political solution, which is exactly what everyone says we need.

General Petraeus says we must have a political and diplomatic 
solution. Well, everyone has heard it, but obviously not this 
President. Mr. President, sign this bill. Have a change of heart. Read 
the paper today. Read the quote from this humanitarian worker. Read 
what our troops are saying. Read about it. Reconsider.

Also, Mr. President, take a look at what we have done for our people 
here at home in this bill. You deride it. You make it sound as though 
we are spending on things we should not. Why shouldn't we fix Walter 
Reed? Why shouldn't we fix the Veterans' Administration so when our 
soldiers come home they get mental health care? Why shouldn't we invest 
in better technologies to protect our troops from these horrific land 
mines, car bombs, et cetera? That is what is in this bill.

Why shouldn't we help our farmers who lost their money because of 
horrific droughts, horrific frosts? That is what these bills are for, 
emergencies. On Sunday, we all learned about the horror that happened 
in Oakland, with a gasoline tanker overturning on a major interstate 
connecter. It collapsed onto the freeway below. Miracle of miracles: 
the middle of the night, in the early morning, 3:40 or so a.m. No one 
killed. Thank you, God. And we pray that the driver survives.

But here is the point: There is money in this bill for emergencies 
such as that. There is a backlog of these emergency fixes that have had 
to be done to our freeways. So, Mr. President, there is real beef in 
this bill for our people, for our veterans, for our fighting men and 
women. And, most important, we change course. We change course. We 
don't have a hard-and-fast date to get out, as others have said. We 
have a goal to get out: in April of 2008.


When I went to Iraq 2 years ago, I met with General Petraeus at 
length. I watched how he was training the Iraqi soldiers. He was very 
complimentary. He said they are doing great. I said to him: If they are 
doing so great, why can't we go home? It is their country.


They have to defend their own country. He said: Well, pretty soon they 
will be able to do it. Clearly, they are not doing it. Clearly, the 
Iraqis are turning on each other. What is our military to do?

As Thomas Friedman said,




 Our troops are protecting everyone, and yet they are 


 everyone's target.


They are protecting the Sunnis from the Shia. When they are 
protecting the Shia, the Sunnis get them. That is an irresponsible 
policy. So what we need to do is get through to this President. I ask 
all the American people to keep on speaking out, to ask the President 
in these next couple of hours to sign this bill. We can finally change 
course. We have been in Iraq longer than World War II. We can't afford 
this conflict, and that doesn't mean you cut and run. Anyone who says 
that is what we are saying is wrong. Read the bill. We redeploy out of 
Iraq, we stay in the region to go after al-Qaida and to train the Iraqi 
forces.

We can't afford this anymore. Mr. President: Sign the bill.

I yield the floor.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.