# IN HONOR OF DR. DAVID HALE, A 2008 HEALTH CARE HERO OF MINNESOTA
## `8e2ce55f786197c252f28e5423c669d6`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 10 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. David 
Hale, Chief of Staff and ER Medical Director at Woodwinds Health 
Campus, for being named a 2008 Health Care Hero by the Twin Cities 
Business Magazine. A modem day hero not only in his community, but as 
far away as Iraq, Dr. Hale's selfless service and dedication to his 
work


have earned him the respect and admiration of his patients and 
colleagues spread throughout the world.

Dr. David Hale has earned the reputation as a giant in his field. In 
fact, one distinguished colleague has even said, ''The world is a 
better place because of Dr. Hale.'' After hearing his long record of 
accomplishment, you will surely agree.

As an emergency medicine physician, Dr. Hale is known for his caring 
and compassionate demeanor towards patients and for his leadership in 
hospital patient services. Some suggest he is the reason Woodwinds 
receives some of the highest patient satisfaction scores not only in 
Minnesota, but across the country.

If that was not enough, Dr. Hale is a Major in the Minnesota National 
Guard and has completed two tours of duty in Iraq. Among his military 
honors, Dr. Hale earned a Bronze Medal Star in March 2007, an Army 
Commendation Medal in March 2005, an Army Achievement Medal in August 
2003, a National Defense Service Medal, a Global War on Terror 
Expeditionary Medal and many other awards for his outstanding military 
service.

Even more amazing are the contributions he has made on the 
humanitarian front during his time in Iraq. During his first tour of 
duty, Dr. Hale stm1ed an international humanitarian effort to teach 
basic 'tnedical care to Iraqis, a program that still exists today. 
During his second tour in Iraq, he expanded his efforts to provide 400 
first aid kits and midwife kits to Iraqi women and children, a gesture 
well received by Iraqi villagers and soldiers alike.

Now back in Minnesota, Dr, Hale is focused on helping veterans 
returning home from war, many of whom suffered traumatic injuries on 
the battlefield.

Madam Speaker, it is my honor to rise today to celebrate Dr. David 
Hale's extraordinary and selfless career of service. His contributions 
to his community, the state of Minnesota, and the country of Iraq make 
him a distinguished patriot, and make us all proud to be Americans. I 
stand today and join his family, friends, and colleagues in wishing him 
a long and successful career.
