---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `8e35640db46ded0437ffa3b99c35c578`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I surely agree with the Senator from 
Arizona. I also wish we were out here working on something else, 
perhaps one of our political reform bills. We had started working on 
our campaign finance reform bill long before 9/11, and we are still 
working on those issues together. It is certainly tragic for this 
country that, instead, we are mired in a situation in Iraq that takes 
us away not only from our national security issues but also our 
domestic issues that need attention.

But I thank my colleague from Arizona. He argues on the merits. He 
doesn't hide behind the resume of a general or talk about or use some 
other person as a human shield. He talks about the merits of the issue. 
He and I have had a chance, thanks to his invitation on two occasions, 
to visit Iraq and look at what was happening. Frankly, we just come to 
different conclusions. In fact, we couldn't be more far apart on this 
issue. Nonetheless, I respect the way he argues and the way we discuss 
this, and I thank him for it.

In a moment, I will turn to one of my colleagues to speak, but I want 
to briefly respond to a couple of the issues that were brought up by 
the Senator from Arizona. The Senator from Arizona and I agree 
absolutely on something: We fear failure in the fight against 
terrorism. We want to defeat those who attacked us on 9/11.

For me, the fight is a global fight, which we have been distracted 
from due to Iraq. So what I am concerned about is that a continued 
effort in Iraq could lead to the ultimate failure in the fight against 
those who attacked us on 9/11. It could lead to a surrender, a true 
surrender against those who declared war on our country on September 
11, 2001. So that is the failure I fear. That is the failure I want to 
make sure doesn't happen, because we have to protect the American 
people.

The Senator from Arizona points out the very difficult problem of 
Iran, which is related to but also separate from the question of al-
Qaida.

He says: What happens if we leave Iraq?

Let me tell you something. What we are doing in Iraq right now is the 
best deal Iran ever had. We take all the hits, we lose the people, we 
pay for everything, and their influence in Iraq increases every day. 
And they do not have to worry about a restive Sunni population in their 
country because they are not moving into Iraq directly. But if we left, 
they would have to think twice about their own stability, if they tried 
to mess around in Iraq directly.

So, almost unbelievably, our strategy in Iraq plays into both the 
hands of al-Qaida and Iran. It is the most foolish move we could make 
in the fight against those who attacked us on 9/11 and against those 
who are being very threatening to us at this point in the name of the 
Iranian leader. It is the wrong strategy in both regards.

The Senator from Arizona asks: How are we going to get other 
countries engaged if we leave Iraq? It is the reverse. None of these 
bordering countries are going to get serious. None of them are going to 
become engaged if they think we are going to just stay there--for a 
couple of reasons. One is, Why should they? We are there putting up 
with all the violence and difficulties and taking all the losses. They 
don't have to spend anything.

The Senator from Arizona and I heard the Kuwaitis talk about this in 
Kuwait, saying: Well, you know, you went in there; now you deal with 
it. If we are not in there, not only Iran and Syria, Jordan and others 
have a definite interest in Iraq not being chaotic. That is when they 
start to perform.

The other problem is, How can these Islamic countries help stabilize 
Iraq now when in their countries our involvement in Iraq is perceived 
as an occupation of an Islamic country? So our very strategy stymies 
the potential for stability being assisted by the other countries in 
the region.

Those are just a couple of responses on the merits to some of the 
points


made by the Senator from Arizona. I firmly believe our strategy is 
hurting our country desperately in terms of our national security, and 
that is why I and others offer the amendment.

At this point, I would like to yield 10 minutes to one of the 
strongest advocates for this policy of trying to terminate this 
involvement, the Senator from Connecticut.