---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `8e3535bd69769b26fa3900246a40bf1b`
`Mr. HATCH — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Madam President, during his July 16 address, the Secretary 
of Defense, Robert Gates, said the military needed maximum versatility 
to bring to bear in a wide range of armed conflicts. Last January, he 
argued that ''our military must be prepared for a full spectrum of 
operations, including the [insurgent] type of combat we are facing in 
Iraq and Afghanistan as well as large-scale threats that we face from 
places like North Korea and Iran.''

I could not agree more with Secretary Gates. However, just as our 
Nation unwisely disregarded the hard-learned lessons of how to fight 
counterinsurgency operations after Vietnam, the Defense Department 
seems poised to make similar errors by limiting our capability to 
defeat the air threat of today and tomorrow: the integrated air defense 
system.

This advanced system is composed of extended-range Russian surface-
to-air missiles such as the S-300 and advanced fighters such as the Su-
30, which have already been sold in large numbers to China and India. 
Together, these systems make penetrating hostile airspace extremely 
difficult, if not deadly, for aircraft lacking the F-22's advanced 
stealth technology and capability for sustained supersonic speeds. It 
is these capabilities that enable the Raptor to have the unique 
capability to conduct stealth operations at any time of day or night.

Secretary Gates argues for ceasing production of the F-22 after only 
187 are built because we will not face what the Pentagon refers to as a 
''near-peer adversary'' for the foreseeable future.

For the sake of our Nation, I hope he is right. However, I believe 
this statement misses a critical point: advanced integrated air defense 
systems are comparably inexpensive and readily affordable by nations 
such as Iran, with its insistence on developing nuclear weapons.

History provides ample examples of the effective use of integrated 
air defense systems by nations that lack the resources to be considered 
a near-peer adversary of the U.S. As retired LTG Michael Dunn recently 
noted, North Vietnam defended its territory during the Vietnam war with 
what, at the time, was an advanced air defense system. This system, 
comprised of surface-to-air missiles and fewer than 200 fighters, was 
able to shoot down 2,448 American aircraft.

The 1973 War between Israel and Egypt is another example. The 
Egyptians learning from their recent defeats built an integrated air 
defense umbrella under which its forces were able to initially make 
significant territorial gains, while the Israeli Air Force faced 
serious losses. Only when the Egyptians advanced beyond the range of 
their surface-to-air missiles' umbrella was the Israeli Air Force able 
to inflict a significant blow.

A more contemporary example is the loss in the 1990s of an F-117 
Nighthawk to the Serbians, who were not equipped with the latest air 
defense system.

Despite such examples, some argue additional F-22s are not necessary 
since stealthy jet-powered unmanned aerial vehicles or UAVs, which are 
still under development, will play an increasingly vital role in 
destroying critical ground targets. This is true for threats on the 
ground, but I am unaware of any plans to operationally deploy a UAV 
that can dogfight existing or next-generation Russian and Chinese jet 
fighters, which will be hunting these UAVs.

Our forces could be confronted with the next generation Russian and 
Chinese fighters soon. There have been numerous media reports the 
Russian Government is developing a new stealthy aircraft, presumably to 
counter the F-22. This aircraft called PAK-FA, is being developed 
jointly with the Indian Government. Additional media sources cite 
China's development of a similar twin engine, stealth aircraft known as 
the J-12.

Some argue that the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter can tackle those 
threats and defeat this new generation of advanced aircraft. While the 
F-35 is a


very capable stealth aircraft, it was designed to complement the F-22, 
not replace it. The fact is the F-35 is neither as capable a fighter 
nor as stealthy as the F-22. For example, the F-35 does not have, nor 
can be upgraded to use, the supercruise engines increasingly needed in 
today's stealth operations.

Remember the F-22 is the NASCAR racer of this air-dominance team. 
Fast and unseen, the Raptor will punch a hole in an enemy's defenses, 
quickly dispatching any challenger in the air and striking at the most 
important ground targets. The Joint Strike Fighter is the rugged SUV of 
the team. Impressive, but not as maneuverable or capable of sustained 
supersonic speeds, the F-35 will exploit the hole opened by the F-22 
and attack additional targets and directly support our ground forces. 
This is not to say the F-35 is not a highly capable stealthy aircraft. 
But the F-35's role is to supplement the F-22, not substitute for it. 
Only by utilizing the strengths of both aircraft do we ensure air 
dominance for the next 40 years.

Furthermore, if the F-22 is such a boondoggle, why do our allies such 
as Japan and Australia want to spend billions to purchase the aircraft? 
Why does Australia, for instance, plan to purchase up to 100 F-35s and 
large numbers of UAVs, and yet remains interested in the F-22? Perhaps 
it is because Australia understands the Russians and the Chinese are 
developing even more sophisticated surface-to-air missile systems and 
stealth fighters, threats the F-22 is uniquely designed and equipped to 
destroy.

Others point out the F-22 has not been deployed in support of our 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is true. However, there were 
recent plans to deploy the F-22 to the Persian Gulf. But according to 
the July 9, 2008, edition of the widely respected Defense News, the 
Pentagon overruled those plans, citing concerns about ''strategic 
dislocation.'' This means the F-22 is hardly a dinosaur. It is a weapon 
that can change the balance of power in a region and deter our 
adversaries.

In conclusion, I am reminded of a point author Michael Korda made in 
his book about the Battle of Britain. He observed that even though the 
two British prime ministers before Winston Churchill pursued a policy 
of appeasement, they also committed their government to develop and 
procure the three pieces of equipment: the Spitfire fighter, Hurricane 
fighter and radar, which were to ensure that nation's survival during 
the Battle of Britain.

I hope the Senate will profit from these lessons of history and vote 
against the McCain-Levin amendment.

I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time.