---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `8e39d8e98c8dcf1f47f53b1034d8c163`
`Mr. OBEY — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the intent of this amendment, and in the 
past I have often considered voting for it. But I have a far different 
attitude now than I had in the past because of the Iraqi War.

The fact is that we have no sustained demonstrations in the streets 
against Iraq, and, in my view, largely that is not occurring because we 
have no draft. And we have no draft because the country has settled 
into a comfortable acceptance of the idea that a precious few people, 
namely those in the regular Armed Forces of the country and those in 
the Guard and Reserves, should be the only people in our society who 
are at risk in this stupid and fruitless war. And I just cannot abide 
that.

I have said many times on this floor that I think it is outrageous 
that there is no sense of shared sacrifice about this war. We ask our 
Guard and Reserve personnel to return to Iraq and Afghanistan time and 
time and time again. And yet of the rest of society we ask nothing 
except to worry about Paris Hilton and to worry about who wins the 
Super Bowl, and, oh, yes, if you are a millionaire, we are going to 
spend $57 billion this year giving you a tax cut. That is really some 
sense of shared sacrifice.

And so I just cannot bring myself to vote for this amendment, though 
it might make sense on the numbers, because I think it would be a 
symbolic act which would send to the country yet another signal that 
the only people we expect to bear any burden for this stupid, 
outrageous, lied-to-get-into war are those in the military. And I just 
think that is wrong. I know that is not the gentleman's intent, but I 
think that is the practical signal that we send.

So I cannot vote for this amendment. I did not even want to speak 
against it, but this war bugs me a lot and the total lack of the 
willingness of this society to face the inordinate costs which we are 
laying on military families bugs me a whole lot more.