---
---

# None
## `8e6a38967492a5fcebc2c56151eb812d`
`Mr. CULBERSON — 17 September 2007`

---


Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

It is my singular honor to stand before the House today to support 
H.R. 1154, a bill that Mr. Green is the lead author of, which he has 
coauthored with Mr. Burgess and I and other members of the Texas 
delegation, which Senator Hutchison has carried in the Senate, to award 
the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey.

Al Green and I are proud to represent the Texas Medical Center in 
Houston, the largest assembly of medical institutions and hospitals, 
learning facilities in the world, and certainly the greatest collection 
of medical talent, human talent in the entire world. And Dr. Michael 
DeBakey has had an impact on medicine based out of the Texas Medical 
Center that just simply cannot be overstated. And my friend Al Green 
has spoken so eloquently and so well of many of Dr. DeBakey's 
accomplishments. I could not agree more that if the Congressional Gold 
Medal did not exist, it certainly should be created just for Dr. 
Michael DeBakey.

He is an educator, surgeon, innovator. As Mr. Green has said, Dr. 
DeBakey comes from Louisiana, the oldest of five children. He was born 
in 1908. And it is important for people listening to know that this 
great good man is 99 years old, in great good health, is still active, 
and is, I hope, watching this afternoon.

He received both his bachelor's, his master's, and his medical 
degrees all from Tulane University in New Orleans and completed his 
internship at the Charity Hospital and his residency at the University 
of Strasbourg, France and Heidelberg, Germany.

At the age of 23, and still a medical student, he reported a major 
invention, the roller pump for blood transfusions, which later became a 
major component of the heart-lung machine used in the first successful 
open heart operation. And while Dr. DeBakey was still a resident in 
surgery, he invented a blood transfusion needle, suture scissors, and a 
colostomy clamp while still a student. He is also credited with 
inventing and perfecting countless other medical devices, techniques, 
and procedures that have saved untold number of lives and led to 
healthy hearts for millions of people throughout the world. The man is 
truly a pioneer in ways that I think most people may or may not know. 
He is a modest good man, and I just can't tell you how proud I am to be 
here and to be a part of this tonight.

When he returned to the United States in 1937, after completing his 
European studies, Dr. DeBakey accepted a position on the faculty of 
Tulane University's School of Medicine Department of Surgery. And 
although he had already achieved a national reputation as an authority 
on vascular disease and had a promising career as a surgeon and 
teacher, Dr. DeBakey volunteered for medical service during World War 
II, joined the Surgeon General's staff, and rose to the rank of colonel 
and chief of the surgical consultant's division.

His firsthand knowledge led Dr. DeBakey to make a number of 
recommendations to properly stage the management of war wounds, which 
led to the development of the MASH units that we are all so familiar 
with because of the television show, and today the survival rate of 
soldiers in the field is remarkable. If they are injured or wounded in 
combat and defense of this Nation, the surgical attention they get from 
those mobile army surgical hospitals is a direct result of Dr. 
DeBakey's work in World War II. And for this contribution, Dr. DeBakey 
earned the Legion of Merit in 1945.

After World War II, Dr. DeBakey recommended the creation of 
specialized medical centers in different parts of the United States to 
treat wounded military personnel returning from the war; and from this 
recommendation, Dr. DeBakey's ideas led to the creation


of the Veterans Affairs Medical Center System. He also proposed a 
systematic follow-up of veterans, as he had done so with soldiers in 
the field, which led to the establishment of the Commission on Veterans 
Medical Problems of the National Research Council and an extensive VA 
Medical Center Research program. And in 2003, in honor of Dr. DeBakey's 
accomplishments, with the help of my friend Al Green and Sheila 
Jackson-Lee and other members of the Houston delegation, the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Houston, Texas, was renamed the 
Michael DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

In 1948, Dr. DeBakey moved to Houston and started at the Methodist 
Hospital in Baylor College of Medicine in the Texas Medical Center. 
Shortly after he arrived, he secured commitments to improve the 
institutions and quickly developed the first surgical residency program 
in the city of Houston. Guided by his vision, Baylor College of 
Medicine is today one of the most respected health science centers in 
the Nation and in the world.

In 1969, as Al mentioned, Dr. DeBakey was elected the first president 
of the Baylor College of Medicine, and today he is chancellor emeritus 
of the Baylor College of Medicine. Dr. DeBakey has been crucial to the 
growth of the Methodist Hospital in the Texas Medical Center.

At Methodist, Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking 
surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage in 
1950.



Today Dr. DeBakey is a senior attending surgeon at the Methodist 
Hospital.

Convinced that there must be a way to improve existing methods of 
vascular surgery, Dr. DeBakey went out on his own and purchased fabric 
from a Houston area fabric store, using a craft he had learned from his 
mother as a child, Dr. DeBakey created the first Dacron prosthetic 
artery on his wife's sewing machine. Intensive studies and testing 
followed, and with the collaboration of a research associate from the 
Philadelphia College of Textiles and Sciences, a knitting machine was 
developed that produced the first seamless artificial artery in history 
called Dacron tubes.

In 1953, Dr. DeBakey performed the first successful procedures to 
treat patients who suffered aneurysms leading to severe strokes. He 
later developed a series of innovative surgical techniques for the 
treatment of aneurysms enabling thousands of lives to be saved in the 
years ahead.

During Dr. DeBakey's tenure as a member of the Task Force on Medical 
Services of the Hoover Commission, he initiated the concept and led the 
movement to establish a national facility for valuable and historical 
medical papers and artifacts. His efforts led to the dedication on June 
12, 1959, of the National Library of Medicine housed at the National 
Institutes of Health. Today the National Library of Medicine is the 
world's largest and most prestigious repository of medical archives.

In 1964, President Johnson appointed Dr. DeBakey to the position of 
chairman of the President's Commission on Heart Disease, Cancer and 
Stroke, which led to the creation of the Regional Medical Programs 
established ''to encourage and assist in the establishment of regional 
cooperative arrangements among medical schools, research institutions 
and hospitals for research and training.''

In 1964, Dr. DeBakey also triggered the most explosive era in modern 
cardiac surgery when he performed the first successful coronary bypass 
in history. That's an extraordinary achievement, and everyone should 
focus on that. Dr. DeBakey was, once again, paving the way for surgeons 
worldwide to offer hope to thousands of patients who might otherwise 
succumb to heart disease.

Two years later, Dr. DeBakey made medical history again when he was 
the first to use, successfully, a partial artificial heart to solve the 
problems of a patient who could not be weaned from a heart-lung machine 
following open heart surgery.

And in the mid-1960s, Dr. DeBakey pioneered the field of telemedicine 
with the first demonstration of open heart surgery to be transmitted 
overseas by satellite, a technique that is today used extensively in 
Iraq. When soldiers in the field are injured and brought into the 
hospital and they need medical care, physicians in the Texas Medical 
Center, which Al Green and I are so proud to represent, are able to 
view those procedures live via satellite, of the x-rays, of the CAT 
scans and the procedure itself being done in Iraq. A doctor sitting in 
Houston, Texas is able to help observe and offer advice on that 
procedure to help save those soldiers' lives. And that technique was 
first pioneered by Dr. DeBakey back in the mid-1960s.

In 1968, Dr. DeBakey supervised the first successful multi-organ 
transplant where a heart, both kidneys and a lung were transplanted 
from a single donor to four separate recipients. In 1968.

In 1969, President Johnson bestowed on Dr. DeBakey the Presidential 
Medal of Freedom with Distinction.

Dr. DeBakey has always focused on education and bringing young people 
into the field of medicine and strengthening and expanding the reach of 
our medical schools. And in 1962, he supported an educational outreach 
program that led to the creation of Houston High School for Health 
Professions, now recognized as one of the best high schools of its kind 
in the United States. And in 1996, Houston's High School for Health 
Professions was renamed the Michael E. DeBakey High School for Health 
Professions in honor of this great, good man.

And he was recognized by President Reagan in 1985 with the National 
Medal of Science.

In 1999, Time Magazine chose Dr. DeBakey as one of the 100 Great 
Americans of the 20th Century and honored him for his pioneering work 
and innovation in cardiovascular surgery and the artificial heart.

Dr. DeBakey continues his pioneering research today. Working with 
NASA engineers, he refined existing technology to create the DeBakey 
ventricular assist device for patients with dying hearts. This device 
is one tenth the size of current versions and restores the cardiac 
output of a heart to normal function in order to relieve the patient's 
failing heart and could eventually eliminate the need for heart 
transplant in some patients. And, in fact, the technology that Dr. 
DeBakey was able to develop for the ventricular assist device is very 
similar to and helped NASA in developing the fuel pumps for the space 
shuttle, which to this day the space shuttle fuel pumps on those 
engines are able to move more fuel, more fluid more rapidly than any 
other pump ever invented. And Dr. DeBakey's work was a key part of 
that.

I have a particular soft part in my heart. As a member of the 
Appropriations Committee, I do my best to avoid spending money. The 
starting answer is no, unless it's medical or scientific research. And 
when it comes to medical or scientific research, that's our Nation's 
insurance policy and the investment that we make. And the research 
that's done at the Texas Medical Center, other medical institutions 
around the country and in scientific research and in the space program 
is truly a part of our national insurance policy. And the research work 
that Dr. DeBakey has done with NASA has truly led to saving lives and 
improved technological spin-offs in many other areas as well.

In 1999, Dr. DeBakey was one of eight individuals chosen to 
commemorate the United Nations' International Day for Tolerance and 
received the prestigious U.N. Lifetime Achievement Award.

In 2000, Dr. DeBakey was recognized by the Library of Congress, which 
designated him a Living Legend.

Throughout his many years of public service, Dr. DeBakey has been 
awarded over 50 honorary degrees from colleges, universities and 
medical schools worldwide, as well as numerous awards from educational 
institutions, professional and civic organizations and governments 
worldwide.

I want to again, Mr. Speaker, say thank you to my colleagues, 
Representative Al Green and Representative Michael Burgess, for 
bringing this bill to the House floor, and a special thank you to 
Chairman Barney Frank for expediting its approval through the Financial 
Services Committee.

I could not agree more with my friend, Al Green. There is no better


way to express the merit of this good man, that if the Congressional 
Gold Medal did not exist, it truly would need to be invented for Dr. 
DeBakey. With his extraordinary achievements, his contributions to 
mankind, to improving the lives and health of not only the people of 
the United States but of the world, I am proud to join my friend, Al 
Green, in urging the House to support and pass H.R. 1154 to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael Ellis DeBakey.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we have been joined by the other lead 
author of this bill, my colleague and good friend from Dallas, Dr. 
Michael Burgess. And I would like, if I could, at this time to yield 
time to Dr. Burgess.