---
---

# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `8e7045b8c00e339eb2e078e32c3fb8fd`
`Mr. BYRD — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, today the President, our President, 
demonstrated once again that he values political posturing more than 
making America a safer, healthier, more economically strong nation.

This morning, President Bush vetoed a bipartisan, fiscally 
responsible Labor-HHS-Education bill that increases funding for 
programs to improve student performance, makes college more affordable, 
supports lifesaving medical research, and provides relief for families 
coping with rising home heating costs.

The bill also provides money for veterans employment programs, 
homeless veterans, and research to help those veterans suffering from 
traumatic brain injuries.

The President, in an effort to convey the appearance of fiscal 
discipline, has threatened to veto 10 of the 12 appropriations bills--
10 out of 12.

Today the President vetoed the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations 
bill because Congress chose to increase funding by 5 percent. The 
hypocrisy of the President's political posturing became even more clear 
today. This morning, the President signed the Defense appropriations 
bill which provides a $40 billion, or 10-percent, increase for the 
Department of Defense. Also, this morning, the President vetoed the 
Labor-HHS-Education bill because Congress chose to restore 
irresponsible and shortsighted cuts proposed by the President.

As part of the President's political message, he describes the 5-
percent increase for Labor-HHS-Education programs as ''bloated'' 
spending. I call it responsible investments in research in cancer, 
heart disease, diabetes, in educating our children, in providing access 
to health care to rural America, and to heating the homes of low-income 
elderly Americans.

The President proposed to cut funding for the National Institutes of 
Health by $279 million for studying cancer, diabetes, and heart 
disease. Under the President's budget, the National Institutes of 
Health would have to eliminate 717 research grants that could lead to 
cures or treatments for cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer's, and other 
diseases.

Congress restored those cuts and provided an increase of $1.1 
billion. I ask the question: Is increasing spending for the National 
Institutes of Health by 3.8 percent ''bloated'' spending? Is it? Of 
course not.

The President proposed over $3 billion in cuts for educational 
programs, including special education, Safe and Drug-Free Schools, and 
improving teacher quality. Congress--that is us--restored those cuts. 
Is increasing by 3 percent to educate our children bloated spending? I 
ask the question again. Congress restored those cuts. Is increasing 
funding by 3 percent to educate our children bloated spending? No.


The President proposed cuts of nearly $1 billion from health 
programs, such as rural health, preventive health, nurse training, and 
mental health grants. Congress, on a bipartisan basis, restored those 
cuts. I ask the question: Is providing an increase of $225 million for 
community health centers bloated spending? Is it? Certainly not.

The President--our President--proposed to cut low-income home energy 
assistance by $379 million. Congress restored that cut and provided an 
increase of $250 million. With the price of a barrel of oil reaching 
$100, does anyone really think increasing low-income home energy 
assistance is bloated spending? No.

No Senator will be cold this winter. I will not be cold this winter. 
You on that side of the aisle will not be cold this winter. We on this 
side will not be cold this winter. No Senator will be cold at home this 
winter. The President will not be cold down at the White House. No. Yet 
the President wants Congress to slash such assistance.

President Bush's Budget Director, Jim Nussle, with whom I met several 
weeks ago, indicated he would be prepared to negotiate in good faith 
with Congress over our differences in spending. To my dismay--to my 
dismay--Director Nussle has not reached out to the leadership of the 
Appropriations Committees in the House and the Senate in a genuine 
effort to find common ground.



Now, what is the problem? Why, Mr. President, why, Mr. Nussle, is the 
$40 billion increase for the Department of Defense fiscally responsible 
while a $6 billion increase to educate our children and improve the 
health of our citizens bloated spending?

Now, let's stop--please, let's stop--this charade of political 
gamesmanship. I say this most respectfully to our President. Let's move 
forward for the good of the American people. They deserve more from 
their elected officials.

I suggest to this White House that it stop its intransigence and help 
us--the elected Representatives of the people in Congress--to enact 
this vital legislation. Let's sit down together and work out the 
problems in this bill. Providing for our people's needs should not be a 
game of us versus them. It should not be a Republican White House 
versus a Democratic conference. People's lives should not be fodder for 
ego-driven political games.

Homeless veterans, veterans in need of health care, children in need 
of education, these must not become the target in a foolish game of 
kickball. I urge this White House--I plead with this White House--to 
sit down with the Congress and address the growing unmet needs in this 
country. If we can build schools and hospitals in Iraq, we can 
certainly provide health care and education for our own citizens. 
Nobody wins in a game of chicken, and surely the White House can and 
ought to work with us--us, in Congress--to stop this charade.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.