---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `8e70960fc37e14700eedc20bfe5c4e91`
`Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina. I thank the gentleman for yielding. Mr. 
Speaker, we face three questions here tonight: Where are we? Where do 
we want to be? And how do we get there?

First, where are we? We are in phase three of a conflict in Iraq. In 
phase one, we overran Iraq in response to an American national security 
threat. We won.

Then came phase two. We were forwardly deployed; the terrorists 
brought the fight to us; we busted up terrorist networks. America was 
protected from further attacks. We won.

Now comes phase three. At best, Iraq is engulfed in a sectarian 
killing spree. At worst, Iraq has descended into a civil war.



So where are we? We are thankful for the incredible work of our 
military in winning phase one and two. We are aware, and I think all of 
us are aware, that only the Iraqi people can win phase three.

It is a neocon mistake to charge our warfighters with building an 
Iraqi national consensus. Iraqis must decide for themselves if they 
want to live in a unified, pluralistic, and peaceful Iraq. No amount of 
American military might can compel that result.

So where are we? Thankful for the successes and the outcomes that we 
can control; aware of the outcomes that we cannot control.

Where do we want to be? We want the Iraqis to take responsibility for 
their own country. The President is wisely pressing them to do so. We 
want the Iraqi leadership to make some key political decisions that can 
bring reconciliation. We want them to divide up the oil fairly, to 
allow banned Baathists back into positions of public trust, and to 
develop a working model of pluralism. We want the Iraqi leadership to 
know that they don't have forever, and that they should settle these 
reconciliation questions quickly. And we want to avoid the error of 
nation building.

The job of the U.S. military is to crush, kill, and destroy the 
enemies of the United States. They are not nation builders; they are 
warriors, and they do their jobs very, very well.

As commanded, our military entered Iraq to destroy what we 
understandably believed were threats to our national security. We were 
successful in destroying those threats and, thereafter, in interrupting 
terrorist networks. Those were outcomes that we could control.

Now, we are rightly asked for inputs that we can control, but we are 
faced with outcomes that only the Iraqi people can control. It is right 
to evaluate the quality of our force's inputs, but wrong to hold them 
accountable for outcomes beyond their control.

Diplomats, statesmen, peacemakers, and everyday Iraqis must work to 
develop a path to progress, a path that has milestones along the way, 
and which has rewards for meeting those milestones and consequences for 
failure.

If the Iraqi people follow the path to progress to a peaceful, 
pluralistic, and unified Iraq, they will have been successful. The path 
may lead to something less. Any lesser outcome is the responsibility of 
the Iraqi people. So we want a path to progress, and we hope for the 
blessings of liberty for Iraq.

Now, how do we get there? The President has ordered an increase in 
troop strength in Iraq. He thinks a surge in troops will give breathing 
room for the development of a path to progress. I am concerned that a 
surge will have the opposite effect: that we will give breathing room 
to the death squads; that our servicemen and women will be caught in 
the crossfire; and that the surge will end right where it began. In 
fact, that is what happened in Baghdad in August and September of 2006.

I am concerned that a surge sends a conflicting message. On the one 
hand, we are telling the Iraqi leadership, ''Hurry up, you don't have 
forever.'' On the other hand we are saying, ''No, not to worry. We are 
increasing the size of the American security umbrella.''

I want all Iraqi factions and all leaders of Iraqi factions to worry. 
I want them to see us reaching for the button that would bring down 
that security umbrella. I want them to imagine the click of the button 
and the feel of the wind from that descending umbrella.

The resolution before us isn't written the way I would have written 
it, but it is the resolution before us. Resolutions are the way that 
Congress discharges its constitutional responsibility to communicate 
with the President. This resolution says we disapprove of the surge. 
Parties on both sides have added additional and conflicting meaning to 
those words. In the end, I just have to vote on the basis of the words. 
That is why I am going to vote in favor of the resolution and express 
my concern about the effectiveness of the surge.