---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `8e712bfddb9593b80450cc5359b2d5a6`
`Mr. HARKIN — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, we are back on the farm bill. To refresh 
memories, we have now been on the farm bill 10 days. This is our tenth 
day. Not one vote has occurred. We have tried time and again to bring 
up amendments, and they have been objected to. I will attempt to do 
that again this morning. I will wait until my ranking member is 
present. I see that Senator Salazar is here to speak on the farm bill.

I wish to make it very clear, tomorrow morning we will have a vote on 
cloture on the farm bill. I want there to be no mistake in anyone's 
mind: Tomorrow morning's vote will be a vote on whether we have a farm 
bill this year. If we get cloture on the farm bill tomorrow, we will 
have a farm bill this year. We will be able to pass a bill in the 
Senate, we will go to conference, and we will send it to the President.

If we do not get cloture tomorrow, that is like killing the farm 
bill. A vote against cloture will be a vote to kill the farm bill. We 
will run out of time. We will be out of here at Thanksgiving for 2 
weeks. When we come back, we have all the appropriations bills to do, 
we have the Iraq funding bill to work out, and we will only have about 
3 weeks before Christmas. Therefore, if we do not get cloture, that is 
like saying we don't want a farm bill. So I hope everyone understands 
what the stakes are.

I also hope no one has the mistaken impression that because we invoke 
cloture, they cannot offer amendments. I got that question from a press 
person this morning. I had to inform them that, no, if we get cloture, 
we have 30 hours of debate and people can offer amendments during that 
30 hours.

I just spoke with our leader. It would be the prerogative, if we 
wanted to on the majority side, if we got cloture, to lay down one 
amendment and take all 30 hours and debate it and block everybody from 
offering amendments. That has happened around here before, by the way, 
where we get cloture and then block it and nobody gets to offer any 
amendments until the end. Then we get into this vote-arama where we 
have votes on amendments but nobody gets to talk about them. We are not 
going to do that.

If we get cloture, I will try to reach an agreement with my ranking 
member, Senator Chambliss, so we can have, say, at least a half hour 
debate on every amendment and vote. That would give us a shot at having 
probably pretty close to 20 amendments that could be debated and on 
which we could vote.

At the end of the 30 hours, of course, any amendments still pending 
have a right to have a vote. There would be a minute on each side to 
explain those amendments, and we would vote on them.

I want to make it clear that voting for cloture does not cut off 
amendments. Yes, it may cut off nongermane amendments dealing with 
whether we are going to go to the Moon or Mars or whether we are going 
to do wacky stuff such as that. Yes, it cuts that stuff out. But any 
amendment that is germane to the farm bill can be offered and will be 
voted on even after cloture. I want to make that very clear.

If we do not get cloture, that is it; that is the end of the ball 
game, and I don't know when we can ever come back to the farm bill 
after that. Certainly not this year.

It is getting late. The crops are in. In most parts of the country, 
crops are in. And now they are beginning to think about next year. 
Bankers want to know, farmers need to know what the program is going to 
be for next year. Will it be this one or will it be what we have come 
up with in our farm bill and worked out with the House. So it is 
getting very late, and we need to get this bill done.

I encourage all Senators, we are open for business now. We can take 
amendments now. We can debate amendments, and we can vote on amendments 
all day today.

Shortly, I will be asking consent to bring up amendments. I am going 
to ask consent to bring up Republican amendments that are filed. I have 
a Lugar amendment. I have a Roberts amendment, an Alexander amendment, 
a Lott amendment, and I am going to be asking consent to bring up those 
amendments. If there is no objection, we will bring them up, have a 
debate, and we can have votes on a lot of amendments this afternoon.

I want to make it very clear again: This side is not holding up the 
process. We want to vote; we want to debate. Just as yesterday, I 
wanted to bring up five amendments yesterday and have limited time and 
vote on them, but it was objected to. I will try that again today. 
Hopefully, maybe we can make some movement and we can have some votes 
today on some amendments. I will be doing that shortly.

I see the Senator from Colorado is on the Senate floor. He has been a 
great member of our Agriculture Committee. No one has worked harder 
than Senator Salazar in getting us to the point where we have a farm 
bill that came out of our committee without one negative vote.

I say to my friend from Colorado, someone this morning on a press 
call asked me: If you don't get cloture, if you don't get this bill, or 
if the President vetoes it and you have to go back, what are you going 
to do differently?

I said: I don't know how much we can do differently to get more of a 
positive vote out of our committee than a unanimous vote. What do you 
do that is different from that? It is not as if we had a split vote on 
the committee and we still have to work it out. We didn't have one 
dissenting vote, so I am not certain how we get much better than that.

I thank my friend from Colorado for all of his hard work on this 
bill. He was instrumental in a number of issues before the committee, 
especially on energy, on conservation. The Senator from Colorado was 
instrumental in working out the agreements and making sure we had a 
bill that got a unanimous vote out of our committee. I thank him for 
that.

He has been a champion of ranchers and farmers, a real champion of 
moving us ahead in energy, in renewable energy, farm-based energy, bio-
based energy, which will get us off the Mideast oil pipeline that we 
have been on for far too long.



Again, I thank my friend from Colorado for all of his hard work. With 
him, I am hoping we can get cloture on this bill tomorrow and move 
ahead and go to conference and get a bill we can send to the President. 
I thank my friend from Colorado for all of his help in getting this 
farm bill here.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.