---
---

# None
## `8e793e17a110334c13fd758bccfc8635`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 9 April 2008`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. I think it's clear, and you're absolutely 
right, I think it's clear that the time has come. And this is not just 
our opinion, but it's clear that Americans believe that the time has 
come to shift our focus to the dire situation that we have with our 
economy.

And I can tell you, anecdotally, when I went home to my district 
during our recess, I had town hall meeting, and I do at least one town 
hall meeting every recess; when I did this last one, I actually, Mr. 
Ryan, had to bring Iraq up myself, otherwise the entire focus of the 
questions and the comments from my constituents would have been the 
economy. I actually had to affirmatively talk about the war in Iraq. 
And there was significant responsiveness on the part of my 
constituents, who agreed, it is long past time to bring the troops 
home. But really, at the top of their mind right now is the economy.

And just to illustrate that point, there was a new poll done recently 
by the New York Times, a CBS poll that showed 89 percent of those 
surveyed believe the cost of the war has contributed a lot or some to 
the United States' economic problems. When they were asked, from what 
you know, how much do you think the cost of the war in Iraq has 
contributed to the U.S. economic problem, a lot, some, not much, or not 
at all, 66 percent of people who responded to this survey said that it 
has affected the economy a lot. And add 22 percent more to make 88 
percent who believe that it has affected the economy even at all.

Now, this week obviously it was a big deal that General Petraeus and 
Ambassador Crocker were coming to testify in front of Congress on the 
progress, or lack thereof, that has been made. There were lots of 
newspaper headlines with pictures of the general testifying, a plea 
from Petraeus in the Washington Post, and ''Petraeus Urges Halt in 
Weighing New Cut in Force'' in the New York Times. The Washington 
Times, ''Petraeus Warns of Iraq Backslide.'' ''Iraq Troop Levels Left 
Open'' in USA Today. But arguably, the newspaper in America that most 
closely focuses on the economy and on the financial health of our 
Nation is the Wall Street Journal.

This is today's Wall Street Journal, Mr. Ryan. There is absolutely no 
headlines, nothing on the front page, any article related to General 
Petraeus's testimony. There is a little tiny entry under ''What's 
News'' that says ''Petraeus recommended that U.S. troop withdrawals be 
halted indefinitely this summer, warning that security gains in Iraq 
are fragile.'' I mean, that's the priority that the Wall Street Journal 
places on the economy versus the war in Iraq, where every other 
article, ''Bush to Expand Help on Mortgages,'' ''Subprime Lenders 
Failure Sparks Lawsuit Against Wall Street Banks,'' those are the 
things that we should be focusing, like a laser beam, our attention on 
because our constituents are suffering.

There are folks that I represent who are having their homes 
foreclosed on that in a million years these middle class folks would 
never have been in that situation financially if we were not focused 
somewhere halfway across the world as opposed to getting our fiscal 
house in order here in the United States of America.

And if folks don't believe what we're saying here, let's use the 
third-party validators that we always use, Mr. Ryan. I will quote 
Robert Reischauer, the former Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office, also a respected institution here that is nonpartisan. He said, 
contrary to the notion that war spending bolsters the economy, he said 
recently that the ''domestic benefits of war spending have been muted 
because spending is stimulating economies elsewhere, not the least 
being the economies of Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.''

I alluded to these numbers earlier, and now I've found them in my 
notes, the price of oil and the direct correlation to our involvement 
in the Middle East and the skyrocketing cost of oil. The price of oil 
has skyrocketed since the Iraq war began. The national average price 
per gallon of regular gasoline


before the start of the Iraq war was $1.73. Today, it's $3.34 cents, 
which is an increase of more than 93 percent. And this is predictable.

In March 2003, Sung Won Sohn, then an economist for Wells Fargo Bank, 
not exactly a progressive think tank, noted that ''any time there is 
conflict in the Middle East, oil prices hit record figures.'' And he 
warned that the longer the war lasted, the higher prices would go.

We can't take higher prices for gas than we're facing now. We already 
expect this summer for them to go over $4. When is enough going to be 
enough?