---
---

# REQUIRING A REPORT SETTING FORTH THE GLOBAL STRATEGY OF THE UNITED  STATES TO COMBAT AND DEFEAT AL QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATES--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `8e7b8efa7605f772f06a991dda0494fe`
`Mr. HAGEL — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. HAGEL. Mr. President, I thank my friend and colleague, Senator 
Webb, for his generous comments and for his leadership in writing and 
initially introducing this legislation. I also thank my friend and 
colleague, Senator Warner from Virginia. As has been noted by the 
junior Senator from Virginia, the senior Senator from Virginia has had 
many years of important experience. He has contributed many years of 
service in many capacities to this country. When you take the service 
of the two Senators from Virginia together, it is a remarkable story. I 
am privileged to join them, as well as over 30 of our colleagues, and a 
distinguished Senator in his own right and World War II veteran, 
Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey.

We all share similar experiences in our service to our country, but 
most of the veterans in the Senate, and I suspect in the House of 
Representatives, also share the common experience of using the GI bill 
which was enacted after World War II to educate a generation of 
Americans who changed the world, who transformed the world.

I put the GI bill in the same universe of importance as the original 
Homestead Act enacted in the early 1860s which truly transformed this 
country. I think the original GI bill did much the same.

What Senator Webb is talking about, what Senator Warner, Senator 
Lautenberg, and others are committed to is a relevant new GI bill that 
addresses the challenges of the 21st century. We in this country not 
only appreciate, but revere, the service of our military, and that is 
as it should be. These are selfless men and women who have committed 
themselves to a higher cause than any other cause, and that is the 
defense of their Nation, defense of their fellow Americans. They ask 
nothing in return. Each generation of Americans who has fought for this 
country, who has served in uniform has never expected anything in 
return because they have considered it a privilege to serve this 
country in uniform.

But one of the reasons the GI bill was first enacted after World War 
II was to reinvest in our country, to reinvest using the loyalty, 
commitment, and resources of Americans to even go further and do even 
more for this country and society in the world. Education does that. An 
important foundational element in the history of the country over the 
last 200 years, as any other, has been public education. It has been 
public education. It is the tradition of our country, not just to 
reward service, to acknowledge service, but be smart about that service 
and reinvest in our society. That is essentially what this is. This is 
reinvesting in our society. It is assuring that those who have given so 
much to our country have an opportunity to develop skill sets in 
education to compete in the most competitive world history has ever 
known, to go beyond expectations, go beyond what is possible. This is 
not just a payback or reward.

I wish to make a couple of general comments about the bill that I 
think not only are appropriate but need to be addressed. I have noted 
that there have been some who have questioned the need for this bill 
when we have a current GI bill which was authored by a friend of 
everyone in this body, a distinguished American who left us last year, 
the late chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee with whom 
Senator Webb worked, Congressman Sonny Montgomery from Mississippi.

On a personal note, it is because of Congressman Montgomery I met my


wife who was working for Congressman Montgomery at the time.

In the early 1980s, he took the reality and the need of our time and 
the relevancy of this bill, the GI bill in law, and made it appropriate 
to what the circumstances were 25 years ago. We are in a different 
place in the world today. We are engaged in two wars. We have 190,000 
troops in those two wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. We have new 
pressures, new challenges, and new opportunities. So it is appropriate 
to readdress this issue that has played such an important role in 
educating our veterans and investing and reinvesting in this country 
and in society.

This does not displace or replace any other educational program. 
Today, the largest grant aid program the Federal Government sponsors is 
the Pell Grant Program, an important program. I believe most all of us 
on the floor of the Senate support that program. I surely do. It is a 
program based on financial need, and it is appropriate. It is one area 
in which I happen to believe the Federal Government can play a role, a 
meaningful role. It gives these Pell grant awardees some options.

Just as what we are addressing today, we need to ensure that these 
people who have sacrificed for this country are given the same kind of 
options that other programs in the past have allowed.

Senator Lautenberg will talk about that issue. Senator Warner will 
talk about that issue. This program needs to be updated and upgraded.


I mention the cost issue because it is an appropriate issue at a time 
when we are running $400 billion deficits. But I remind everyone here, 
Mr. President, that we are spending approximately $15 billion a month 
on war--two wars. We are getting to nearly $1 trillion spent on two 
wars over the last 7 years. Surely we can find the resources necessary 
to upgrade and update the requirements for a 21st-century country as it 
relates to our veterans.

I want to also address one other issue that I have heard from some 
who say: Senator, if we do this, if we go forward with this program and 
modernize the GI bill, wouldn't it undermine our recruitment and 
retention efforts? That is an interesting question, again, a relevant 
question. You recognize the fact that, first, we have an all-voluntary 
service, so people have choices. We want the finest, brightest, most 
capable young men and women we can find, and we have been able to do 
that over the last 25 years--build the best trained, best educated, 
best led, best equipped, most motivated force in the history of man. 
But we are on the edge of ruining that force structure.

Why do I say that? The Chief of Staff appeared before the Senate 
Armed Services Committee for the last 2 days. In order for the Army to 
continue to recruit enough manpower to fight in two wars, as well as 
the other obligations, we have had to define down the standards of the 
U.S. Army--waiving criminal records, waiving drug records, waiving high 
school diplomas, and high school equivalence in order to attract enough 
people.

In addition to that, we have put hundreds of millions of dollars of 
large incentive bonuses on the table, $40,000 at a time, for 
reenlistment and for signup bonuses, plus the promise of down payments 
for houses. So we are already in the marketplace for competing with 
young men and women to serve this country.

Isn't it far better to invest in education? Isn't it far better to 
give these young men and women more educational opportunities if they 
decide or when they decide to leave the service after they have served 
this country in an honorable way? Isn't that more important in many 
ways to recycle that commitment and loyalty and talent into a new 
investment in education that will serve these young men and women far 
longer than a $40,000 bonus? Far more.

I think just the opposite. I think it enhances recruitment. I think 
this enhances the quality of our service. I think this helps us get 
back to defining our standards up. No institution can long survive when 
it defines its standards down. There will be a consequence for that, 
and we are seeing that consequence today, as I think General Casey made 
very clear in his comments before the Senate Armed Services Committee.

In conclusion, I am very proud to be part of this effort. I am, like 
my colleagues, hopeful the Senate and the House and the administration 
will act on this bill this year. It is, as Senator Webb noted, a 
timely, important, and critical issue for our country and our force 
structure.

I will continue to do everything I can to be part of that effort and 
work hard to that end.

Again, I very much appreciate the leadership of Senators Webb, 
Warner, Lautenberg, and others who have brought this bill forward.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.