# FRAUD ENFORCEMENT AND RECOVERY ACT OF 2009
## `8e8899d597bb7935da9d0f1a2c324893`
`Mr. CONRAD — 23 April 2009`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, floor staff informs me they are working on 
an agreement that will allow us to go to the consideration of the 
conferees. At this point, we will open the discussion but will not turn 
to it. I will use this time to make my statement so that we are 
efficiently using the time of the Senate.

I remind my colleagues that some of the key elements in the Senate-
passed budget resolution we will soon be taking to conference. The 
budget needs to be considered in the context of the very tough hand we 
have been dealt. This administration and this Congress have inherited a 
mess of truly staggering proportions. If we start with the deficit 
outlook, we can see that the previous administration inherited 
surpluses that they rapidly turned into record deficits, and then 
record deficits of a proportion that stagger the imagination. I don't 
think anybody could have anticipated we would have deficits approaching 
$2 trillion in a year.

We also saw in the previous administration a dramatic increase in the 
Federal debt--a more than doubling of the Federal debt in the period 
that the previous administration was responsible for.

The Obama administration inherited record deficits, a doubling of the 
debt, the worst recession since the Great Depression, financial market 
and housing crises unparalleled since the 1930s, and nearly 4 million 
jobs lost in the last 6 months alone. On top of it all, we have ongoing 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I often think what it must be like to be President Obama, who wakes 
up every morning with this heavy responsibility on his shoulders. In 
our caucus today, we had the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, 
Chairman Bernanke. I told him that I believe when the history of this 
period is written, he will go down as one of its heroes--somebody who 
helped rescue us from what could have been a financial collapse, not 
only here but around the country.

In the budget resolution that passed the Senate, which we will be 
taking to conference, we have tried to preserve the major priorities of 
the President: reducing our dependence on foreign energy; a focus on 
excellence in education; fundamental health care reform, because that 
is the 800-pound gorilla that can swamp the fiscal boat of the country; 
middle-class tax cuts; and cutting the deficit in half over the term of 
the budget.

The budget we produced reduced the deficit by more than half over the 
next 5 years. We have reduced the deficit by two-thirds. I am proud of 
that fact. We reached 3 percent of GDP a little less


than that--which all of the economists say is essential to stabilizing 
the debt.

At the same time, we have adhered to the President's intentions to 
make certain strategic investments--one of the most important in 
energy--to reduce our dependence on foreign energy, because that is an 
imperative for this country, a strategic imperative, a financial 
imperative, and a national security imperative.

The budget resolution that went through the Senate reduces our 
dependence on foreign energy, creates green jobs, preserves the 
environment, and helps with high home energy costs. It does it in the 
following ways: one, a reserve fund to accommodate legislation to 
invest in clean energy and address global climate change; second, 
providing the President's level of discretionary funding for the DOE; 
third, building on the economic recovery package to provide investments 
in renewable energy, efficiency, and conservation, as well as low 
carbon coal technology, and modernizing the electric grid.

I thank Chairman Leahy once again for his incredible courtesy and 
graciousness in allowing us to interrupt his very important legislation 
so we can go to this matter of naming conferees, because we are under a 
tight deadline there. I thank the chairman of the Judiciary Committee 
for his incredible graciousness.

We also, in this budget, preserve the President's priority of a focus 
on excellence in education. If we are not the best educated, we are not 
going to be the most powerful country in the world for very long. So we 
adopt the priority of investments in education to generate economic 
growth and jobs, to prepare our workforce to compete in the global 
economy, to make college more affordable, and to improve student 
achievement. We do it, again, in three ways: a higher education reserve 
fund to facilitate the President's student aid increase; by extending 
the simplified college tax credit, providing up to $2,500 a year in tax 
credit--that is a dollar-for-dollar reduction in your tax liability; 
and, finally, by providing the President's requested level of $5,550 
for Pell grants and fully funding his education priorities, such as 
early education.

When I am asked about the President's budget, I give it very high 
marks because I think it has the priorities exactly right--reducing our 
dependence on foreign energy, excellence in education, and health care 
reform, all in the context of dramatically reducing the deficit. So on 
health care, the budget resolution that previously passed the Senate, 
which we will take to the conference committee, bends the health care 
cost curve, reducing costs long term, improves health care outcomes, 
expands coverage, increases research, and promotes food and drug 
safety. Again, we do it in three different and very specific ways: No. 
1, a reserve fund to accommodate the President's initiative to 
fundamentally reform the health care system. As many have said, we have 
a sickness system, not a wellness system. We have to make a transition. 
We also have a reserve fund to address Medicare physician payments, 
because we know that the doctors across the country who serve Medicare-
eligible patients are due for major deep cuts--cuts of more than 10 
percent. We are not going to let that happen. Third, it continues 
investment in key health care programs, such as the NIH and the FDA.

Not only have we preserved the President's key investment priorities, 
reducing our dependence on foreign oil, moving toward excellence in 
education, health care reform, but we also preserve his fourth key 
priority of cutting the deficit dramatically. In the budget resolution 
that previously passed the Senate, we reduce the deficit by two-thirds 
by 2014--that is in dollar terms we reduced it by two-thirds. Most 
economists say you ought to evaluate it as a percentage of the gross 
domestic product, that that is the best way to see what you are 
accomplishing. If we look at it in those terms, we are reducing the 
deficit by more than three-quarters, from 12.2 percent of GDP in 2009 
down to less than 3 percent of GDP out in 2014.

I am especially proud of that trajectory on the deficit, because I 
think it is absolutely critical. I would be the first to say we need to 
do even more in the second 5 years, but this is a 5-year budget. The 
reason it is a 5-year budget is that, of the 34 budgets that Congress 
has done since the Budget Act was instituted, 30 of those 34 times we 
have done a 5-year budget. Why? Because the forecasts beyond 5 years 
are murky, at best, highly unreliable. So we have stuck to a 5-year 
budget, as has traditionally been the case.

With respect to the revenue side of the equation in this budget, the 
Congressional Budget Office, in looking at what we have done, would 
conclude that as a total, compared to current law, the budget 
resolution that passed the Senate reduces taxes. Let me emphasize that, 
because some want to put all the emphasis on the tax increases in this 
package; but if you take the tax increases and the tax reductions and 
put it all together, and you look at a net result, you find that we are 
cutting taxes over the 5 years by $825 billion. That is because we have 
extended the middle-class tax relief that is from the 2001 and 2003 
acts, the 10-percent bracket, the childcare tax credit, the marriage 
penalty relief, and the education incentives. All of that is in this 
bill.

We also provide alternative minimum tax reform relief for 3 years to 
prevent 24 million people from being swept up in the alternative 
minimum tax.

We also have estate tax reform, $3.5 million an individual, $7 
million a couple, indexed for inflation. That means 99.8 percent of 
estates in this country will pay zero; 99.8 percent of estates will pay 
zero.

We also have business tax provisions and the traditional tax 
extenders, such as the research credit, that are included in this 
budget, for a total of tax relief of $958 billion.

On the other side of the equation, we have loophole closures, such as 
codifying economic substance and international tax enforcement to go 
after these offshore tax havens, these abusive tax shelters. We raise 
$133 billion for a net tax reduction of $825 billion over the 5 years 
of this budget.

On the spending side of the house, domestic discretionary spending, 
again as a percentage of the gross domestic product--and the reason, of 
course, economists say that is what you should focus on rather than the 
dollar amounts is that this takes account of inflation. It gives a more 
fair comparison year by year.

We hear all this talk that this is a big spending budget. No, it is 
not. This budget reduces domestic discretionary spending as a 
percentage of gross domestic product from 4.3 percent in 2010 down to 
3.2 percent in 2014. We are taking domestic discretionary spending down 
to one of its lowest levels in the last 50 years.

In fact, nondefense discretionary spending increases under this 
budget resolution an average 2.5 percent.

In addition, we have a series of budget enforcement tools that are in 
this resolution: discretionary caps for 2009 and 2010. Some have said 
we ought to have discretionary caps for 2011 too. Well, why? Well, why? 
We are going to be back here a year from now. We have discretionary 
caps for 2009 and 2010. Why do we need them for 2011, when we are going 
to be right back here, same place, same time 1 year from now?

We also maintain a strong pay-go rule. We provide a point of order 
against long-term deficit increases; a point of order against short-
term deficit increases; we allow reconciliation for deficit reduction 
only in the resolution out of the Senate; and we provide a point of 
order against mandatory spending on an appropriations bill.

Let me address, very briefly, this last provision because what we 
found was some of our colleagues have gotten increasingly clever about 
finding new ways to spend money. We found they were increasing 
mandatory spending on appropriations bills. Mandatory spending is 
typically not done on an appropriations bill, as the Chair well knows. 
Appropriations bills are designed to deal with discretionary spending, 
not mandatory spending. Mandatory spending is things such as Social 
Security and Medicare, certain farm supports. Those are mandatory 
spending items. We found some of our colleagues have gotten very clever 
and started to increase mandatory spending on appropriations bills. We 
have created a point of order to try to short circuit that bad 
practice.

The budget resolution also attempts to address our long-term fiscal 
challenges. Let me be very clear. My colleague will momentarily speak, 
and he


will be highly critical of the budget resolution for not more fully 
addressing our long-term challenges. It may surprise listeners to hear 
me say that I agree with him. If there is a place this budget can be 
fairly criticized, it is that it does not do enough long term. I think 
we do a pretty good job in the first 5 years. But beyond that--this is 
only a 5-year budget--but beyond that, much more needs to be done.

The ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, Senator Gregg, and I 
have a proposal that I believe needs to be pursued. It is to have a 
task force given the responsibility to come up with a plan to get us 
back on a sounder, long-term fiscal track and to come to Congress for 
an assured vote if 12 of the 16 members of that group could agree.

Nonetheless, there are three important elements of this budget 
resolution that deal with our long-term fiscal circumstance. No. 1 is 
the health reform reserve fund. That, after all, is the biggest threat 
to our long-term fiscal security and stability. No. 2 is we have 
program integrity initiatives to crack down on waste, fraud, and abuse. 
We have five in this budget, and they are very important--Medicare, 
Social Security, defense, and others as well. I hope very much that 
these are pursued in the conference committee.

No. 3 is we have a long-term deficit increase point of order to 
require a 60-vote point of order against moves to increase long-term 
deficits.

Finally, let me say that on this question of the long term, the 
President has been very clear. At the fiscal responsibility summit on 
February 23, the President said this:




 Now, I want to be very clear. While we are making important 


 progress towards fiscal responsibility this year, in this 


 budget, this is just the beginning. In the coming years, 


 we'll be forced to make more tough choices, and do much more 


 to address our long-term challenges.


The President got it exactly right with that statement. We are going 
to have to do much more. But this budget is a good and responsible 
beginning.

Mr. President, with that, I will yield the floor. Let me say, 
momentarily we will have a unanimous consent request before us. I do 
not yet have it in my hands. I will say this before we begin this 
debate. This is an institution with Republicans, Democrats, and 
Independents. On the Budget Committee, we have all three represented.

I am chairman of the committee representing the Democratic Party. 
Senator Gregg is the ranking Republican. Senator Gregg is someone with 
whom we have strenuous debates and disagreements. You will see that in 
the coming hours. But I wish to make very clear that I have high regard 
for Senator Gregg. He is motivated by patriotism, by love of country, 
and by a fundamental understanding that we are on an unsustainable 
track, that we have to be much more serious about our long-term buildup 
of deficits and debt. He has not just talked about it, he has been 
prepared to act.

I wish to recognize him for his commitment to something I also 
believe in. I think it is abundantly clear we cannot stay on our 
current course. It is a course that will lead us to a much diminished 
standard of living for the future. While I believe this budget is a 
good beginning, I do not assert that this in any way solves our long-
term problem. It does not. But it is a beginning, an important 
beginning, and we need to do more.

I also thank Senator Gregg for his unfailing courtesy and 
professionalism, not only in our public debates but in the workings of 
the Budget Committee. He has assembled a first-rate and professional 
staff. We have worked together well to do the business of the committee 
and the business of the country.

I thank Senator Gregg, once again, for all he has done to allow the 
budget resolution to be fully debated, fully discussed, to have our 
differences aired publicly and privately but also to do it in an air of 
civility and respect, something I certainly feel toward him.