---
---

# None
## `8ea38467df3c7c91be1139d9be156667`
`Mr. SMITH of Washington — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SMITH of Washington. I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I want to begin by echoing the comments of my colleague 
from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) and also thanking him for his outstanding 
leadership on our subcommittee. It's been great to work in a bipartisan 
fashion with Mr. Thornberry; with Mr. Saxton, the former chairman; and 
the other members of the committee. And I will not repeat all that Mr. 
Thornberry just said because I agree with it completely. The priorities 
that he laid out of our subcommittee, focusing on supporting the 
Special Operations Command in their lead in the fight against al Qaeda 
and terrorism; focusing on science, technology, and all the issues that 
he raised are exactly what we are trying to confront. I have enjoyed 
working with him on those issues and look forward to continuing to do 
so because, as he mentioned, we have certainly made progress but there 
is a lot more work to do. Our Special Operations Command needs all the 
support we can give it in its effort to fight al Qaeda, to understand 
that enemy and then use its forces to the best of its ability to combat 
it. And I think understanding those issues is enormously important. It 
has been a huge priority of our subcommittee.

I also want to thank the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Skelton. 
It is a great honor to have worked with him during my 11 years in 
Congress and certainly a great honor to work with him as the Chair, and 
I think he has produced an outstanding bill, in particular the focus on 
the troops. I have traveled with the chairman before, and I know that 
this is always at the top of his priority list, how we are taking care 
of the troops and their families. This bill does that. It protects 
them, active duty, Guard and Reserve. It makes it a priority to make 
sure that we are meeting their needs, and I know that is primarily 
because of his leadership, and I thank him for that. I also thank the 
other subcommittees who were directly involved in that.

Lastly, I want to point out how important it is that this bill also 
recognizes the fight we are currently engaged in in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It goes to the issues that are most important to those 
troops. Funding the MRAPs, trying to come up with ways to combat IEDs, 
making sure they have the body armor and the up-armored Humvees they 
need to confront those threats. It has been a huge priority of this 
committee, and particularly Mr. Taylor and Mr. Abercrombie, to make 
sure that we fund our troops that are in the field right now with the 
priorities that they most need because they are the ones facing the 
most direct threat right now.

I have always been proud to be a member of this committee, and I'm 
very proud of the bill that we have created. I urge every Member in 
this body to support it. I think it's an excellent piece of 
legislation.