# EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
## `8ebe5a122817116ace6ac37874cbdae9`
`Mr. KING of New York — 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. KING of New York. I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of this resolution today. 
And at the outset, let me commend the majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, and 
the Republican leader, Mr. Boehner, for introducing the resolution and 
showing the spirit of bipartisanship that is so essential.

Mr. Speaker, September 11 is not just history. It is real. It is with 
us every day. As the ranking member, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, said, I lost 
approximately 150 friends, neighbors and constituents on September 11, 
and that is true of almost every Member of the downstate delegation 
from New York. In fact, I can't drive throughout my district without 
seeing sign after sign, street signs commemorating the police officers 
and firefighters who were killed on that day. So this was a real 
tragedy. It is a real tragedy that continues today in those families, 
with their friends and with their neighbors.

It is also an ongoing threat against the United States of America. 
The attacks on September 11 do not end on September 11. The fact is we 
have an enemy of Islamic terrorism, al Qaeda, which threatens us 
throughout the world and, indeed, here in our own country. In New York 
alone, there have been attacks foiled against the Brooklyn Bridge, 
Herald Square, against Fort Dix in neighboring New Jersey, against the 
synagogues in Riverdale in the north Bronx. So these are issues. This 
is a threat which is ongoing and it is real. We always have to keep our 
defenses up.

We have to thank the men and women of our Armed Forces who are 
fighting throughout the world, the men and women of our intelligence 
agencies, the men and women of the State and local police departments 
in New York, of the New York City Police Department, of the Nassau 
County Police Department, and of the Suffolk County Police Department. 
There are more than 1,000 police officers dedicated to fighting 
terrorism in counterterrorism units. And again, it is a daily, daily 
effort.

As the ranking member of the Homeland Security Committee, I'm aware 
of many of the threats we have stopped, and we are realizing again how 
the enemy is never going to stop, and we can't let our guard down.

Also, in the interests of bipartisanship, I believe we should give 
President Bush credit for setting up the international level of 
cooperation with so many countries throughout the world and also for 
breaking down barriers with their own intelligence agencies and 
requiring them to share information with local police departments. It 
is not because of luck we haven't been attacked in 8 years. On 
September 12, 2001, no one would have thought we would go 8 years 
without being attacked the way we were on that horrible day of 
September 11.

Also, in the interest of bipartisanship, it is important for us, as 
Republicans, to stand with President Obama with his policy in 
Afghanistan, which is a continuation of efforts that we began against 
the Taliban and al Qaeda after the attacks of September 11. This issue 
of international terrorism is too important to allow us to be divided 
by partisan politics. We came together as a Nation on September 11 and 
the days after. It is important that we stay together.

This, as President Kennedy said in 1961, is going to be a long 
twilight struggle. But we won that Cold War, and we're going to win 
this war. We are going to prevail if we stand together as one, stand 
together as a Nation and realize that our enemy is attempting to 
destroy us. But if we stand together as one with our allies and with 
our forces here in this country, we can never be defeated.