# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `8ec99a8c796b26342aaa1d4f7491f748`
`Mr. BINGAMAN — 1 May 2008`

---


Mr. BINGAMAN. Madam President, I wish to take a few minutes to 
discuss what has become a very tortured topic for the entire country; 
that is, the prices for oil and gasoline and diesel.

I would like to respond, first, to the President's misstatements 
about Congress's role in this situation. These


are misstatements he made on Tuesday at his press conference. Then I 
would like to talk about what I believe are some of the real causes of 
the energy situation and what constructive steps we can take to address 
those causes.

First, with regard to the President's statements, on Tuesday he 
suggested the Congress is to blame for the current price situation 
Americans are seeing when they go to fill up at the gas pump. He cited 
three reasons to conclude that.

First of all, he was blaming Congress for preventing oil companies 
from exploring for oil and gas in the United States. Second, he was 
blaming Congress for blocking efforts to build more refineries in the 
United States. Third, he was blaming Congress for blocking increases in 
the U.S. nuclear electricity production capacity.

Frankly, I think the President's comments are disappointing in 
several regards. First, of course, they are very partisan. But second, 
the charges the President made are simply not borne out by the facts.

On exploration and production of natural gas in this country, 
Congress has taken significant steps on a bipartisan basis to enhance 
oil and gas production. Through enacting the Gulf of Mexico Energy 
Security Act of 2006, Congress made available 4.74 trillion cubic feet 
of natural gas and 1.26 billion barrels of oil off the Florida 
Panhandle.

Ironically, Congress was required to pass that law because of steps 
that were taken early in the Bush administration. In her first year in 
office, in 2001, Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton cut the size of 
the scheduled Outer Continental Shelf lease sale in the area by 75 
percent. So with the stroke of a pen, the Secretary of the Interior, in 
2001, put off limits over 6 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and over 
1 billion barrels of oil from an area that had been proposed for 
leasing by the Clinton administration, I would say, with the 
concurrence of our former colleague, Lawton Chiles, who was then the 
Governor of Florida.

So while, undoubtedly, a politically popular stance for the Bush 
administration in Florida when this action was taken by Secretary 
Norton, this was hardly an action that was intended to enhance oil and 
gas production in the country.

In fact, large areas of the Outer Continental Shelf are currently off 
limits to oil and gas development and production not just because of 
congressional moratoria but because of Presidential withdrawals that 
were first put in place, in 1990, by the first President Bush. This 
current President Bush could exercise real leadership in this area, if 
he wished to, by eliminating these Presidential withdrawals that were 
first put in place by his father.

We are talking about a significant area. There are some 574 million 
acres of the OCS, or Outer Continental Shelf, that are unavailable for 
leasing, and virtually all that is covered by Presidential withdrawals, 
which could be eliminated by this President with the stroke of a pen.

The Arctic Refuge is another issue raised by the President. He failed 
to mention drilling in the Refuge will do nothing to address the high 
price of gas people are faced with today. I think everyone who has 
looked at the issue recognizes that not a single drop of oil would come 
to the lower continental United States from the Arctic Refuge for at 
least 10 years.

The Energy Information Administration has estimated that production 
from the Arctic Refuge would, at its peak, reduce our reliance on 
imports by about 4 percent, from 68 percent to 64 percent. That is the 
estimate the Energy Information Administration has given, which, of 
course, is part of our own Department of Energy.

Other areas of Federal lands that are much more appropriate for 
development can and should be drilled. In fact, of the 45.5 million 
acres of Federal onshore lands currently under lease by industry, there 
are over 31 million acres of those lands that are not currently being 
produced. Likewise, there are 33 million acres of Federal Outer 
Continental Shelf that are under lease; that is, the Government has 
done what it should do to make these areas available, but they are not 
being produced.

The processing of drilling permits on Federal lands has surged over 
the past several years. It has more than doubled between 2001 and 2006. 
At the same time, the administration reported that in five key basins 
in the Rocky Mountain States, 85 percent of oil resources and 88 
percent of natural gas resources are currently available for leasing 
and for development.

Congress has also funded important research and development programs 
to enhance the best of production. It is simply inaccurate finger 
pointing to say that Congress is impeding oil and gas development in 
this country.

On refinery capacity, which is the second point the President made in 
his press conference, refining capacity has increased by about a 
million barrels per day during President Bush's tenure, from 16.6 
million barrels per day in 2001 to 17.5 million barrels per day in 2007 
through capacity expansion and existing refineries. There have been no 
efforts from Congress to try to slow down that expansion. Refiners have 
been asked whether they would like to build new refineries as opposed 
to expanding capacity at existing refineries, and those refiners have 
told us in hearings before our Energy Committee that they would rather 
expand capacity at existing refineries. We have never heard support 
from anyone inside the oil industry regarding the President's curious 
plan to build refineries on former U.S. military bases. As far as I 
know, no Member of Congress objects to that; it is just that the 
companies that are in the business of constructing refineries have not 
decided that it makes good sense for them from an economic point of 
view.

The economics of refining are not very good at the moment, as 
gasoline prices are not yet fully reflecting the jump in crude oil 
prices. U.S. refining capacity is at about 85 percent utilization at 
the current time, as many refiners are losing money on every gallon of 
gasoline they produce. Clearly, constraining refinery capacity is not 
our current problem.

The third issue the President attacked the Congress about was nuclear 
energy production. Here again, Congress is not standing in the way of 
increasing nuclear production capacity. In fact, Congress over the past 
3 years has put in place one of the most favorable sets of incentives 
for nuclear power development anywhere in the world.

For example, if a nuclear plant is proposed for licensing and is 
delayed because of a lack of action by Federal regulators, the 
proponents of the plant can get Federal payments to compensate for that 
delay. Now, that was part of the 2005 legislation we passed. No wind 
power developer can get that kind of a subsidy. No solar power 
developer can get that kind of a subsidy. We also provided tax 
incentives for the construction of new nuclear powerplants. So if the 
Congress passes global warming legislation--I know the administration 
and the President are opposed to that, but if we do, according to the 
Energy Information Administration, the most significant impact of that 
global warming legislation would be to provide a powerful new incentive 
to promote more nuclear power development in this country.

So let me move on from the discussion of the President's charges to a 
short discussion of what I consider the real causes of current oil 
prices. I think to understand what is going on here, it is critical to 
put these oil prices in the broader economic context. The current 
increase in oil prices is, to a large degree, a symptom of our ailing 
economy. Oil prices and the value of the U.S. dollar have been very 
strongly linked over the last year. As the value of the dollar 
declines, oil prices go up.

We have heard recent testimony before our Energy Committee that 
confirms that investors are seeking protection from inflationary risks 
associated with the weak dollar and from credit and wider financial 
markets in which they have lost confidence. As one witness put it, oil 
has become the new gold, and that is why speculators and others are 
investing in oil. Higher oil prices in turn weaken our economy, so we 
are caught in a downward spiral in which a weak economy is resulting in 
high oil prices, and high oil prices are, in turn, further weakening 
the economy.

So the question is how do we stop this downward spiral. This is a 
large task. It requires, first and foremost, a return to rational 
fiscal policy that will restore balance and investor confidence in our 
markets. That includes


an honest accounting of the costs of the war in Iraq, a figure that we 
now know is going to be in the trillions of dollars. Spending has also 
been accompanied by the administration's tax policies which have been 
extremely damaging to the country's long-term fiscal health. Every 
American family that sits around the kitchen table and tries to balance 
a budget recognizes the simple fact that spending more than you earn or 
more than the revenue you can bring in results in, after a period, your 
creditors eventually coming calling. That is what is happening to the 
dollar today. Apparently, the stewards of the U.S. economy and this 
administration have failed to absorb that simple reality.

Let me talk a little about policies to reduce oil prices in the short 
term. There are modest but important measures we can enact to increase 
our oil supply and reduce our demand. On the supply side, we need to 
immediately stop removing oil from the market to fill the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve. It simply makes no sense to be putting $120 per 
barrel oil underground. According to the most recent Energy Information 
Administration forecast, oil demand in the United States is expected to 
decline by 90,000 barrels per day in 2008. This is the kind of signal 
we need to send to the market in order to see some relief from current 
prices. However, we are taking 70,000 barrels per day off the market to 
add to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve which we all recognize is about 
97 percent full right now. We are basically wiping out any positive 
effects from the decrease in demand. This is a policy completely 
wrongheaded and should be stopped immediately. I compliment all three 
of the candidates for President for embracing this recommendation that 
we eliminate the filling or we suspend the filling of the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve. I wish the administration would support that simple 
measure.

On the demand side, we need to decide whether we are ready to get 
serious about educating consumers to take more responsibility to reduce 
consumption. We know that 5 miles per hour slower that a person drives 
will increase our fuel efficiency for that individual by about 7.5 
percent. We also know that energy-efficient, properly inflated tires 
increase fuel efficiency by about 4 percent. Regular car maintenance 
can increase fuel efficiency by about 2 percent. So Americans 
individually could use about 10 to 15 percent less gasoline by adopting 
these commonsense measures. But to see we do that, we will need 
publicity out there to educate folks on the simple steps they can take 
to reduce consumption. In the medium term, we need to ensure there is a 
cop on the beat on the oil markets.


There are two key steps we should take to improve Government 
oversight of the oil markets. First, the Secretary of Energy needs to 
have a role in overseeing oil markets. It troubles me that the people 
at the New York Mercantile Exchange on which oil is traded and the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission which regulates that exchange seem 
to be the only people who think that speculators are not influencing 
oil prices.

Here is a quote from the Wall Street Journal on March 21 of 2006. It 
says:




 Hedge funds are taking ever-larger bets in a futures market 


 that is smaller than the stock or bond markets, and the funds 


 are using borrowed money to maximize their bets, magnifying 


 the impact on energy market prices.


So clearly, the Secretary of Energy and the 500-plus employees he has 
there in his Energy Information Administration who work every day to 
analyze energy data, forecast energy supply and demand, and prices 
should at a minimum provide insight and advice to market regulators at 
the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. Perhaps this could help the 
Commodities Futures Trading Commission come to understand the role of 
speculators in that market.

Second, we need to shed light on the so-called dark markets. Markets 
that trade U.S. oil or are located in the United States should be 
subject to U.S. regulation. It is unacceptable that an exchange that is 
based in Atlanta, GA and trades U.S. crude oil that is delivered in 
Oklahoma is regulated in the United Kingdom, not subject to the laws 
and regulations that we in Congress put in place to govern the U.S. 
futures market. It is also unacceptable that over-the-counter markets 
are regulated neither here in the United States nor in the United 
Kingdom. There is simply no regulatory body that can see these over-
the-counter transactions.

Let me also say a few words about policies that will not reduce 
gasoline prices. First, there is a proposal to suspend the tax on gas 
and diesel. While I can appreciate the temporary public relations 
success that might accompany this tax suspension, it would come at the 
expense of fiscal common sense and sound energy policy. I agree that 
high gasoline and diesel prices are hurting consumers, but additional 
deficit spending will only help accelerate the downward trajectory of 
our economy as a whole. This is simply the latest in a long line of 
proposals that seek to score political points during an election year 
at the expense of good energy policy.

There are three main objections to the proposal. First, it would 
increase deficit spending by nearly $10 billion while saving motorists 
about $25 per person. If you do the math, you find that even if all of 
the savings are passed on to the consumer, which is a very unlikely 
outcome, the savings per person is negligible.

If you assume that the average motorist drives 12,000 miles per year 
and gets 22 miles per gallon, you can calculate that the amount the 
average person would save in a 3-month period is $25.50. So adopting 
the fuel efficiency measures I have discussed earlier, including 
shaving a few miles per hour off the top highway speed, would be much 
more effective in reducing the cost of gasoline to the average 
consumer.

Madam President, how much time remains?