# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `8ed5afd6c746d27d29cfacd98bdc0dd8`
`Mr. ETHERIDGE â€” 28 May 2010`

---


Mr. ETHERIDGE. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 5136 the 
Fiscal Year 2011 Defense Authorization Appropriations Act.

It is fitting that we are considering this bill on the Friday before 
Memorial Day. In my state of North Carolina, patriotism never went out 
of style. We were patriotic before patriotism was cool. With Fort Bragg 
and Pope Air Force Base, other bases and our Guard and Reserve, units 
in my district, America's service members are our friends and 
neighbors, sons and daughters. We swell with pride at the work being 
done by our service members in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere. As we 
pray for their safe and speedy return, we also remember those veterans 
who came before them, who served their country and protected our 
freedom throughout history. I am proud every single day, not only on 
Memorial Day.

Mr. Chair, this bill recognizes the service of our men and women in 
uniform, and gives our troops the resources they need. It provides $567 
billion to the Department of Defense and Department of Energy, and 
commits $139 billion for today's active operations. In terms of future 
security, the bill strengthens our counterterrorism efforts, providing 
our military with the additional tools they need to disrupt, dismantle, 
and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies. Of particular importance 
to Fort Bragg, which houses the Special Operations Command, it enhances 
our capacity to directly act against terrorist forces. It also brings 
warfare into the information age by integrating cybersecurity 
protection with the protection of physical security.

H.R. 5136 strengthens protection for our troops at home and abroad, 
and increases support for our soldiers and their families. It honors 
our covenant with the Guard and Reserve by raising their pay and by 
investing in new equipment. It strenthens our compact with the citizen 
soldier, so that when Guard and Reserve are called to active duty that 
they have the equipment and training they need to be effective.

The bill contains an amendment that I offered with Congressman Larry 
Kissell and Congressman Sanford Bishop that reinforces the pact between 
the communities that host the military bases and the Department of 
Defense. The change confirms Congress' commitment to the quality of 
life of America's soldiers, officers, civilians and their families. 
While the Office of Economic Adjustment in the Department of Defense is 
tasked with providing technical and financial assistance to communities 
affected by Defense adjustments, there are often community needs that 
cannot be financed in a timely manner with local resources. Our 
amendment makes sure that Office now has the full authority required to 
fulfill its mission. The Department now has clear authority to roll up 
its sleeves, so the Department can help out while the changes are 
happening. I appreciate Chairman Skelton's willingness to accept this 
amendment, and I hope that we can work together to fund those needs.

Mr. Chair, the members of our armed forces give so much to our 
country. Whatever we ask, even for the ultimate sacrifice, we know will 
be given. On the eve of our Memorial Day observation, I urge my 
colleagues to join me in voting yes on this bill, ensuring that our 
military is fully prepared for threats and challenges worldwide and 
that our troops get the benefits they deserve and have earned.
