---
---

# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `8eda80ac4ebfaf232fd8977d99803125`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 9 February 2009`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, I thank the Senator from South Dakota 
for his effective leadership in helping the American people understand 
the full implications of this legislation on American families. I ask 
that I be informed when I have 1 minute remaining.

A number of things have been said about the so-called stimulus 
package, which I feel, many of us feel, is more of a spending bill than 
a stimulus bill. But there is no doubt about the fact that it increases 
our national debt.

The debt is not some abstract thing. Our national debt is $10.7 
trillion. This adds to the national debt as much money as--well, let's 
put it this way. It took from the beginning of the Republic until 1982 
to have a cumulative debt of $850 billion. And this bill is more than 
that. This is a lot of money. We are adding the $820 or 830 billion 
that we have heard about plus the interest over the next 10 years. That 
adds about $10,000 to each family's share of the debt. Well, with that 
$10,000 you can pay in-state tuition for 1.5 years at the University of 
Tennessee. You could pay for 21 years of public school lunches every 
day for the average middle school student. You could buy a gallon of 
milk a week for 57 years. That is a lot of money.

I wish to make three points today as we think about this stimulus 
bill which, I believe, is more of a spending bill. First, this bill 
makes a number of policy decisions on education, health, and energy 
that ought not to be made in such a bill, but ought to be separately 
debated and considered.

No. 2, we should have all of the proposed spending on the table. Mr. 
Geithner is coming up to Congress this week to tell us how much we need 
for banks. Then we need more for housing. Then we need more for the 
war. I think if we knew all of the money we are about to have to 
borrow, our appetite for spending $1.2 trillion, mostly on projects 
that do not create jobs in the next few months, would diminish.

And, third, this is not the kind of bipartisanship that I expected. 
As I listened to the President, I thought he wanted to change the way 
Washington works. The way Washington works in a bipartisan way is for 
us to sit down and talk with one another and come up with something 
both Republicans and Democrats can agree upon; not we won the election, 
we will write the bill and let's see if we can pick off two or three 
Senators.

First, a number of policy decisions. The first version of the Senate 
bill actually doubled Federal spending for education without any 
discussion. I used to be the Secretary of Education. Today, that 
Department has about a $68 billion budget. The original version of the 
Senate bill doubles that. It took 40 years to get to $68 billion. But 
the original Senate bill would increase education spending by $140 
billion over the next two years--on top of that $68 billion we're 
already spending per year. So the bill would double the $68 billion 
this year, and keep it doubled next year. Then it is supposed to go 
back down to $68 billion the year after that, which seems unlikely.

But there was no discussion about this. Would you not think, if they 
were going to double the Federal commitment to education, we would have 
a discussion about what would be best to spend it on? I mean, are we so 
delighted with the performance in kindergarten through the 12th grade 
and our preschool programs that we have nothing to do but say, let's 
double the money for more of the same?

Even the small things that have crept into the legislation, some of 
which President Obama has said he supports, should be fully debated. 
For example, we have some new Senators at the forefront of federal 
support for the Teacher Incentive Fund. We have a new Secretary of 
Education who supports this effort to help reward outstanding teaching 
and outstanding school leading, but not a penny was included in the 
Senate bill.

What about charter schools? A lot of us on both sides of the aisle 
want to give teachers the freedom to use their own common sense and 
good judgment in dealing with the children who are brought to them. 
That is what a public charter school does. Not a penny in the Senate 
bill.

So education is the first policy area that should have been debated 
separately. Then on health care, the House added nearly $90 billion for 
Medicaid. The President has said we need to make health care available 
to every American. We Republicans agree with that. So we are ready to 
have a debate about that. That will cost some money.

One of the major proposals, in fact, the one that has the most 
bipartisan support, the Wyden-Bennett legislation, would get rid of the 
Medicaid Program and replace it with individual accounts. This preempts 
that decision by giving $90 billion more to the States.

So the States get $90 billion. That is a lot of money. Tennessee's 
share of that would be $1.5 or $2 billion. That is going to make the 
program so rich the States will not want to give it up, and we will not 
be able to have a full discussion about health care when that comes 
around.

Then an energy bill. Last year, I asked the Energy Information 
Administration to estimate what kind of subsidies we were doing for 
renewable energy, because it seemed to me it was all going to wind and 
nothing else. I was about right.

EIA said: We are subsidizing wind at 27 times greater than all other 
forms of renewable energy per kilowatt hour; 53 times greater than 
subsidies for coal per kilowatt hour; and 15 times greater than the 
subsidy for nuclear, which produces 70 percent of our carbon-free 
electricity.

That was in the middle of last year. That was at a time when we only 
were committed to $11.5 billion to give to rich people and big banks, 
some of which we are bailing out, that get big tax credits when they 
build wind turbines. So that was $11.5 billion in the middle of last 
year.

Then in October of last year we passed legislation that brought that 
up to $16 billion over the next 10 years, and this bill brings to $25.7 
billion the amount of taxpayer dollars that we are paying rich people 
and banks so they can get big tax credits for building wind turbines.

As far as the beautiful mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee, I 
don't want those things littering our area, particularly because the 
wind doesn't blow there enough to make it efficient. But even in areas 
where it does make sense, do we really need, without any discussion, to 
go from $11.5 billion last year to $26 billion this year with a 
national windmill policy? Why don't we have a debate about energy, and 
let's have a technology-neutral way to encourage all forms of renewable 
energy, especially emerging forms.

We have an education bill, a health care bill, and an energy bill, 
but we don't have a stimulus bill. We shouldn't have all this on the 
table.

Mr. Geithner has apparently delayed his recommendation about what we 
do about credit and banks until we have had the vote on this stimulus 
bill. This was supposed to be a transparent administration. To be 
transparent, let's put it all out there. How much do we need to 
appropriate for banks? I voted for that twice now. I might vote for it 
again if I think we need to do it. It was not an easy vote, but I did 
it. How much do we need to spend on housing? How much do we need to 
spend on the war in Afghanistan and to finish the war in Iraq? How much 
do we need to spend on the health care plan the President and we in 
Congress have said we want to work on? And how will we shape all this 
into some control of entitlement spending? It would be nice if we had 
it all on the table.

If we knew, as the testimony suggested before the Budget Committee 
last week, that we really need to appropriate $400 or $500 or $600 
billion to take care of $2 trillion of toxic assets in banks to get the 
economy moving again, we might have less appetite for lumping an energy 
bill and an education bill and a health care bill and a lot of projects 
that don't really stimulate the economy in with this borrowed money.

Finally, on this side of the aisle, just as on that side of the 
aisle, we like the new President. He was our colleague. He came to see 
us. We walked out of that meeting between the President and Republican 
Senators saying: Here is an accomplished man who wants to help our 
country. We want him to succeed because if he does our country will 
succeed. But we want to be a part of it. We expected to be a part of 
it.

President Bush technically didn't need the Congress to wage the war 
in


Iraq. So he didn't get support, for example, for the Iraq Study Group 
principles when Senator Salazar and I----