# None
## `8eef939cbddbb01211fafab16f757ba7`
`Mr. VOINOVICH â€” 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in favor of the 
Levin amendment on Iraq. As my colleagues know, I have long supported a 
greater level of oversight in the war in Iraq. Many of us feel we 
should have done a better job of force oversight at the beginning of 
the war. I was quite taken with a quote from Condoleezza Rice recently, 
who said, ''I wish we had known more about Iraq before we went in.''

While in Iraq in August, I witnessed a great deal of progress on the 
ground. That gave me encouragement. However, I was also convinced that 
it would not be possible to sustain the current level of troops and 
funding for Iraq over the long term without damaging our national 
security and long-term fiscal health.

As stated before, I believe we need to implement a plan to reduce our 
military presence in Iraq and focus the remaining military presence on 
a more limited role. This is clearly the plan General Petraeus is 
implementing now, and it is the stated goal of the President, as 
mentioned in the Levin amendment, supported by Secretary Gates and 
others who are concerned about our force level, and that we need more 
troops in Afghanistan. I have been working with Senator Levin for 
several months now to come up with a piece of legislation that could 
secure bipartisan support in the Senate and send a message to the 
President and the world that the Congress intends to exercise oversight 
to ensure we are making progress toward this goal. I have been careful 
to avoid supporting any measure that I thought would hurt our troops in 
any way, tie the hands of our brave commanders in the field, or prevent 
the President from responding to the situation on the ground.

In September, I introduced a bill with Senators Alexander, Coleman, 
and Dole to strive for a goal to reduce our military presence. We had 
bipartisan support for that, but Senator Levin and I had a problem with 
the date. Unfortunately, it fell by the wayside.

I support the Levin amendment, and I am a cosponsor to this 
legislation because I believe it is a very simple piece of legislation 
that accomplished the goals we all share. It sends the message that we 
support the President's declared goal of reducing our presence in Iraq 
over time so we can play a more supportive role, bring our forces home, 
and reduce the burden on our military. It is a sense of Congress and 
will not bind the President in any way or tie the commanders' hands in 
the field. It is supported by the President's own declared goals and 
that of his commander, General Petraeus--who is doing, by the way, an 
incredible job. It provides a goal for limiting our role in Iraq, and 
that goal is to end at the end of next year. But, unlike other past 
legislation, this date is not legally binding and would allow the 
President to respond according to the security conditions on the 
ground.

I believe this amendment will not hurt our aspirations in Iraq in any 
way but will actually help our President and General Petraeus, who are 
striving now to hand over more responsibility to the Iraqis.

This week, it was announced that the Iraq Government is ready to take 
over local security groups, with our support. This is an important 
step, and it is a step in the right direction. We need to continue in 
this direction. We need to make it our goal. We need to let the Iraqis 
know that they must take more responsibility for their own security.

We must make it clear to them that we spent over $550 billion, that 
we have lost almost 3,900 individuals, 26,000 people have been wounded 
over there, and half of them are going to be disabled for the rest of 
their lives.

We have paid a tremendous price. It is time for them to step up to 
the table and start doing more for themselves. I support this amendment 
so Congress can send that message that we are not simply funding a 
never-ending conflict in Iraq, we have a goal of reducing our presence 
there, and we are working toward it.

I hope my colleagues realize the sensibility behind this very simple 
piece of legislation and join me in supporting it today.