---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `8ef433e2d28ffc3abc02e60069cf50af`
`Mr. WOLF — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Chairman, in the interest of time, I am going to 
withdraw the amendment, but I would be remiss if I didn't take this 
opportunity to call to the attention the financial storm and the 
tsunami that is off the coast ready to hit our Nation.

Our Nation's Federal fiscal policy remains unsustainable, and in last 
Thursday's Washington Post, Comptroller General David Walker referred 
to what called to a ''tsunami of spending'' that will result in ''very 
rough seas, like we've never seen before in this country.''

If Congress is not proactive in addressing the mounting entitlement 
costs and fiscal outlook 30 years from now, we won't be here deciding 
how to spend discretionary funds in an appropriations bill, there won't 
be any money left for anything. In 2006, Medicare, Medicaid, Social 
Security, consumed 40 percent of the budget. That percentage will jump 
to 51 percent in 10 years, and there will be a devastating impact on 
the country.

In less than 20 years, there will be no money for student loans, 
transportation funding, national parks or cancer research or autism 
research, just to name a few.

More than $2.6 billion a day is needed to fund the savings shortfall, 
which has left us with nearly 40 percent of our GDP in foreign hands. 
The Saudis hold


a lot of our debt, the Saudis hold a lot of our debt. The Chinese hold 
a lot of our debt.

On Tuesday, the Budget Committee held a hearing on foreign holdings 
of U.S. debt, and the vulnerability of our economy. The CBO director 
testified that increases in foreign holdings accounted for about 86 
percent of total Federal borrowing last year.

We should care about that. We should care that the Saudis hold this 
debt, the Chinese that hold this debt. China is the largest single 
source of financing for the current U.S. account deficit. While the 
U.S. falls deeper and deeper into debt, other countries are saving. 
Although China usually gets most of the attention, it's also Saudi 
Arabia. Fifteen of the hijackers for 9/11 came from Saudi Arabia, Iran 
and Kuwait.

This amendment incorporate to expedite a national commission, eight 
members from each side to come together. This place is a partisan, 
political pit. There is no opportunity in this Congress to resolve 
these issues.

We can't even decide when we are going to adjourn around here 
sometimes. So what we take is eight Republicans, eight Democrats come 
together, put everything on the table. Everything has to be on the 
table, including tax policy.

This Commission would make recommendations and would hold public 
hearings around the country where the American people could have input. 
They will come back.

What makes this different than most others is that this would be like 
the base closing commission. It would require a vote to be taken by the 
Congress.

But 10 years from now, 20 years from now, when many of our people are 
going to be sitting on the rocking chair, having served in this 
Congress, and editorials and the newspaper headlines say ''Nation in 
crisis,'' we are going to ask, what did we do?

I have written a number of Dear Colleague letters. We are up to 31 
cosponsors, Members cosponsored this. We need eight Members from each 
side, everything on the table, recommendations would come back, require 
the Congress to vote. But for our children and for our grandchildren, I 
would ask that we do this.

Mr. Chairman, I would ask to include a Washington Post article by 
David Broder and also some other material in support of the idea.









[From washingtonpost.com, Feb. 1, 2007]













Deficit Day of Reckoning














(By David S. Broder)




 Next Monday is the real day of reckoning for President Bush 


 and this new Democratic Congress. That is the day the 


 president sends his budget for next year up to Capitol Hill, 


 and you really will be able to judge by the reaction what 


 will happen in Washington in the next 9 months.



 Last year, when the budget came out, Democrats hooted in 


 skepticism and many conservative Republicans expressed dismay 


 at the size of the projected deficits. In the end, the House 


 and Senate could not agree on a budget resolution, and the 


 government went on autopilot in terms of domestic spending, 


 continuing at the same level as the year before.



 This year, as I learned from conversations with two senior 


 White House officials last week, the president hopes his 


 budget will become a starting point for serious negotiation--


 not a partisan football or simple laughingstock.



 That hope was encouraged by a letter to the president last 


 week from the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate, 


 Rep. Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Harry M. Reid, and the chairmen of 


 the two budget committees, Rep. John M. Spratt Jr. and Sen. 


 Kent Conrad.



 The first sentence said, ''We are writing to express our 


 strong interest in working cooperatively with you to address 


 our Nation's fiscal challenges.'' It acknowledged that as the 


 process unfolds, ''Democrats and Republicans will disagree 


 about particular priorities, and we will need to negotiate 


 our differences in deciding how to allocate scarce 


 resources.''



 But it put forward four principles that could lead to a 


 successful budget outcome this year.



 ''The budget should account realistically for projected 


 federal costs,'' including the billions needed for the wars 


 in Iraq and Afghanistan and the adjustments needed in the 


 alternative minimum tax, which otherwise would punish 


 millions of middle-class families.



 ''The budget should realistically project short- and long-


 term deficits,'' as objectively as the calculations of the 


 Congressional Budget Office, which show the prospect of very 


 large deficits if current tax and spending policies are 


 unchanged.



 ''The budget should provide detail throughout the entire 


 budget period,'' making clear the hard choices that lie 


 ahead.



 ''The budget should be based on fiscal discipline that is 


 sustained over the long term,'' underlining the fact that it 


 will take years of effort to repair the damage done to our 


 fiscal condition in the past 6 years.



 The House took an important first step in repairing our 


 fiscal health last month by reimposing the ''pay-go'' rule, 


 requiring any increase in entitlements or tax relief to be 


 balanced with tax increases or spending cuts.



 While not endorsing these specific principles, the White 


 House officials with whom I met certainly pledged to make 


 visible the costs of the war and to be specific about the 


 trade-offs needed to maintain budget discipline, both in the 


 short term and the long term.



 They said that the economic assumptions underlying the 


 president's budget are modest--if anything, an underestimate 


 of the revenue likely to be produced by a growing economy. 


 And the officials indicated that the president will recommend 


 that, for a second year in a row, overall growth in 


 discretionary domestic spending--the part separate from 


 Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security--be held close to 


 zero.



 If Monday's budget fulfills those promises, the stage could 


 be set for a serious effort to put the federal fiscal house 


 in order.



 But the warning voiced in an interview by Rep. David R. 


 Obey of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Appropriations 


 Committee, must be borne in mind. Obey recalled that when the 


 late Rep. Richard Bolling of Missouri invented the 


 congressional budget process, he said, ''It will work only if 


 all the key players--in Congress and the administration--use 


 honest figures and make a genuine effort to live within its 


 discipline. Otherwise, the budget process will become a 


 barrier to action.''



 If the congressional budget process breaks down, two 


 Republicans, Rep. Frank R. Wolf of Virginia and Sen. George 


 V. Voinovich of Ohio, have proposed a commission of 


 legislators and experts to tackle the long-term budget 


 challenges and bring back a plan that Congress would have to 


 vote up or down, or substitute an equally effective blueprint



 One way or the other, this problem must be faced. Monday's 


 budget message could be the first step.