---
---

# None
## `8ef6c018612e50ad19469ad6e1ac0988`
`Mr. WOLF — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, before I begin, I would also like to second 
what the Speaker said with regard to Leo McCarthy. He was also a member 
of the National Commission on Gambling, which I was the author of. And 
he came by my office a number times. And I was actually going to put 
his bio in the Congressional Record. So I thank the Speaker for that 
comment, and second it.

Madam Speaker, I was the author of the amendment to set up the Iraq 
Study Group. I felt that more should be done to look at what we were 
doing in Iraq, and so we put together a group and picked 10 people. It 
was chaired by former Secretary of State Jim Baker and former 
Congressman Lee Hamilton, head of the 9/11 Commission. Also


serving on it was former Secretary of State Larry Eagleberger; former 
prominent lawyer, Vernon Jordan; former Justice of the Supreme Court 
Sandra Day O'Connor; former Member of the House and Chief of Staff, in 
the Clinton administration, Leon Panetta; former Secretary of Defense, 
in the Clinton administration, Bill Perry; former Senator, and Governor 
from my State, Chuck Robb; and at one time, up until the end, a month 
before, current Secretary of Defense Gates, former head of the CIA.

This group was provided the opportunity to, in depth, to take a look 
at what was going on in Iraq and to develop some recommendations. The 
resolution that I have introduced as House Con. Res., that puts the 
Congress on record in support of the recommendations of the Iraq Study 
Group.

Now, here's a group that has taken 9 months to analyze extensive 
hearings. Also there were 45 military and diplomatic experts, retired 
and active duty, of all political persuasions, along with key 
congressional leaders that came up with these recommendations. So I am 
asking Members to support my resolution when it comes up next week in 
support of this.

Secondly, it makes a major effort and encourages the administration 
to adopt also a diplomatic effort in addition to what it is doing. We 
urge the administration to engage Syria the same way that President 
Reagan during the 1980s, when we were defeating communism, President 
Reagan, God bless him, one of the greatest presidents we have ever had, 
gave the famous speech in Orlando about the evil empires. But he was 
also having his administration engage with the Soviet Union. And when 
Ronald Reagan then gave his speech, saying, ''Mr. Gorbachev, tear down 
that wall,'' Reagan also had emissaries going to Moscow to engage.

Those of us in the Congress, when we used to go behind the Soviet 
Union, the Berlin Wall in the Soviet Union, during the 1980s would 
always meet with the dissidents, would always attempt to meet with the 
leadership of the government on behalf of freedom, on behalf of 
liberty.

President Reagan was self-confident in what he believed. He believed 
that to engage the Soviets was not a sign of weakness. It was a sign of 
strength.

Madam Speaker, I would like to put in the Record an article from the 
Wall Street Journal by Abraham D. Sofaer, who was counselor to 
Secretary of State Schultz, who also explains how Reagan engaged with 
the Soviets and how it is appropriate now how he would engage with 
Syria.

I am hopeful and I ask all Members to support the resolution when it 
comes up.







 [From the Wall Street Journal, Dec. 20, 2006]










A Reagan Strategy for Iran and Syria













 (By Abraham D. Sofaer)




 The Iraq Study Group's recommendation that the Bush 


 administration drop its preconditions and negotiate with 


 Syria and Iran has been praised as a ''no-brainer''--and 


 condemned as an improper effort to reward rogue regimes. 


 Neither reaction is correct. Negotiating with enemies can be 


 a useful aspect of effective diplomacy. But successful 


 negotiations with enemies result not from the talks 


 themselves but from the diplomatic strategy that accompanies 


 them. The Group's recommendations deserve support, but must 


 be effectively integrated into President Bush's strategy of 


 ending state-sponsored terror.



 The arguments against negotiating with Syria and Iran were 


 also made against negotiating with the Soviet Union, and by 


 some of the same people. Soviet misconduct easily matches 


 that of Syria or Iran in aggression, oppression, murder, 


 support for terrorist groups and mendacity. President Reagan 


 challenged Soviet behavior by supporting groups fighting 


 communist intervention, building the military, strengthening 


 NATO, condemning human-rights violations, commencing a 


 missile-defense program, and conveying the message of freedom 


 in every way possible. George Shultz supported these efforts 


 but sought to negotiate with the Soviets in an attempt to 


 increase stability, reduce nuclear weapons, attain freedom 


 for oppressed groups, and enhance understanding. To make 


 negotiations possible the U.S. adopted specific policies, 


 including:



 Regime acceptance. The U.S. refrained from activities aimed 


 at destroying the Soviet regime it was seeking to influence, 


 while vigorously denouncing its political and moral 


 legitimacy.



 Limited linkage. Negotiations on human rights, arms 


 control, regional issues and bilateral relations were pursued 


 without linkage to Soviet conduct, enabling negotiations to 


 proceed while the U.S. responded firmly through deeds.



 Rhetorical restraint. Reagan vigorously criticized the 


 Soviet system and its behavior, but promised not to ''crow'' 


 when the Soviets agreed to U.S. proposals, enabling Soviet 


 leaders to avoid being seen as capitulating to U.S. demands.



 Self-Interest. U.S. negotiating policy was based on 


 convincing the Soviets to act in their own best interests.



 The Study Group's ''external'' strategy for Iraq contains 


 several elements necessary for successful diplomacy: the need 


 for both incentives and ''disincentives''; negotiations 


 ''without preconditions''; and negotiations that are 


 ''extensive and substantive,'' requiring a balancing of 


 interests. The general incentives identified by the Group are 


 unlikely, however, to lead to constructive discussions. While 


 Syria and Iran should realize that preventing a breakdown in 


 Iraq is in their interests, they see great advantages in 


 having the U.S. lose strength and credibility in a costly 


 effort to help a state they are relieved to see powerless. 


 The notion that they will help in order to have ''enhanced 


 diplomatic relations'' with the U.S. assumes that states, 


 will do what they know the U.S. wants simply because 


 Washington will not otherwise talk to them. The 


 pronouncements that accompany this Bush policy exemplify the 


 sort of rhetoric that discourages cooperation. The 


 possibility of obtaining U.S. assistance in joining the WTO 


 would be a real incentive in an ongoing negotiation, but it 


 is not a credible incentive in the context of hostile 


 confrontation and proliferating sanctions.



 The incentives proposed for negotiating with Syria are, by 


 contrast, concrete and substantial. Syria are, by contrast, 


 concrete and substantial. Syria would benefit economically 


 from a stable Iraq, and getting back the Golan Heights would 


 give President Bashar Assad's standing a much needed boost. 


 Syria has no deep commitment to Hezbollah or Hamas to prevent 


 it from accepting peace and with Israel and increased 


 cooperation in Iraq, Lebanon and the Palestinian areas, in 


 exchange for the Golan and a constructive role in the area. 


 But the Study Group too casually assumes that the U.S. can 


 secure ''Syria's full cooperation with all investigations 


 into political assassinations in Lebanon.'' The ''full 


 cooperation'' of a sovereign state in such situations must be 


 negotiated, rather than made a precondition. Convincing 


 Israel to give up the Golan Heights will also be difficult, 


 and Syria's help in securing the release of Israeli soldiers 


 seized by Hamas and Hezbollah is a good place to start. While 


 the security threat posed by returning the Golan has largely 


 been worked out in prior negotiations, the challenge posed by 


 Syria's claim to access to the Sea of Galilee, and the 


 meaning of a ''full and secure peace agreement'' will require 


 great of forts. Still, bringing Syria into a responsible 


 nation-hood is an objective well worth pursuing.



 The anger and scorn heaped on the Study Group for 


 advocating negotiations with Syria echo the opposition to 


 negotiating with the Soviet Union. But Syrian behavior must 


 be addressed, not just condemned. Egypt, too, wrongfully 


 supported terrorism against Israel after the 1967 war, and 


 launched the 1973 war, to get back the Sinai. Yet, the U.S. 


 properly urged Israel to negotiate with Egypt, and the peace 


 between them serves the interests of both countries. 


 Similarly an agreement to return the Golan in exchange for 


 peace would have the support of most Israelis and the current 


 Israeli government, and would be consistent with governing 


 Security Council resolutions and the principle that precludes 


 acquiring territory by force.



 The Study Group is probably right that Iran is unlikely to 


 agree to negotiate with the U.S. to bring stability to Iraq. 


 The distrust between the U.S. and Iran suggests that 


 negotiations between them should commence on limited issues, 


 in a noncontroversial forum. The U.S./Iran Tribunal in The 


 Hague might well work. Iran resents that many of its 


 significant claims against the U.S. remain unresolved there 


 after over 20 years. The U.S. should offer to negotiate these 


 claims on an expedited basis. As progress is made, the 


 dialogue would likely expand to include such issues as 


 Afghanistan, Iraq, commercial matters and human-rights 


 concerns. (During my negotiations with Iran as legal adviser 


 between 1985 and 1990, we resolved many cases and discussed 


 other issues; my interlocutor eventually agreed, for example, 


 that the fatwa against Salman Rushdie could not be enforced 


 in any state outside Iran.) A successful negotiation will 


 include Iranian demands, such as an end to efforts at regime 


 change. Major change in Iran is in fact more likely to result 


 from normalization and internal activities, than by 


 opposition groups seeking to overthrow the regime.



 Finally, any effort to negotiate with Syria or Iran will 


 fail if based only on incentives. The Study Group's proposal 


 lacks a program of sufficient pressure to make diplomacy 


 potentially successful. James Baker was able to convene the 


 Madrid Conference in 1991 only after the U.S. had expelled 


 Saddam Hussein from Kuwait. The effort to impose sanctions on 


 Iran for its nuclear program should continue as forcefully as 


 possible. Multilateral sanctions helped get Libya to abandon 


 its quest for nuclear weapons. A clear warning that Syria and 


 Iran must end all forms of state-sponsored terrorism, as now 


 required by Security Council resolutions, must be a central 


 element of U.S. negotiating policy, backed with meaningful 


 preparations for action. The power of the U.S. to inflict 


 damage




 on its enemies remains substantial, despite current 


 difficulties in Iraq. While it is now difficult to 


 contemplate military action against Syria or Iran, continued 


 sponsorship of terror against other states will eventually 


 provoke the American people, if not the international 


 community, to exercise their right of self-defense through 


 affordable wars of destruction instead of costly nation-


 building exercises.



 No one can convey this message more effectively than George 


 Bush, who remains determined to prevent a future of state-


 sponsored terror. He should accept the Study Group's sound 


 message on negotiating with enemies but supplement it with 


 the toughness that effective diplomacy demands.
