---
---

# REPEAL THE DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL POLICY
## `8f00fc7ef9907f542abc2339bc7b7601`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 6 October 2009`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. I thank the gentlelady from 
Wisconsin. And as she mentioned Lieutenant Colonel Fehrenbach, the fact 
that we trained him and spent millions of dollars on his training to do 
what's necessary to keep our family safe here at home and in a faraway 
place like Iraq and Afghanistan, and just to throw him out and just 
discharge him like that is really a stain. It is a stain on our 
military. And it's a stain on this Congress for not acting quick 
enough.

It reminds me--you know, I had the great honor to teach at West 
Point. I taught constitutional law at the United States Military 
Academy at West Point. I was there from 2000 to 2003. And Forbes 
Magazine just rated West Point the number one college in America. It 
costs the American taxpayer about a quarter-million dollars to train 
each one of those cadets to become second lieutenants, to become 
leaders of character, not just for the 5-year active duty military 
commitment, but for a lifetime of service.



One of those cadets when I taught there was Lieutenant Dan Choi. 
Lieutenant Choi is an Arabic speaker, an Army officer, an Iraq war 
veteran and another one, one of the 13,000 that we just threw out of 
the military, not for any type of sexual misconduct. And let's be 
clear. If there's sexual misconduct, whether homosexual or of a 
heterosexual nature, throw them out. But just because he was gay, just 
because of his sexual orientation, and that is wrong. I'd now like to 
turn it over to my colleague, Mr. Jared Polis, for any comments that he 
may have.