# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `8f0c701fc3fe915b975dbc9fcb750abd`
`Mr. BLUNT â€” 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information for 
publication in the Congressional Record regarding earmarks I received 
as part of H.R. 2638.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Army--RDT&E, Sensors And Electronic Survivability.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University and Foster 
Miller Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N. Booneville Ave, Springfield, MO 
65806.

Description of Request: $4 million is included in this bill for 
advanced warning systems enabled by integration of sensors and onboard 
intelligence such that robotic platforms can be tasked to self-deploy 
and self-maneuver to provide situational awareness and recommend a plan 
of action without being detected. The use of taxpayer funds is 
justified because a major impediment to mobility and security of 
Department of Defense personnel and facilities in theater is lack of 
perimeter monitoring capabilities for detection of approaching enemy 
elements, vehicles, and release of toxic chemical and biological 
threats. In theater, forward security teams have relied on use of dogs 
to warn warfighters of the presence of intruding personnel. More than 
ever before such teams, operating covertly or otherwise, find 
themselves in hostile territories


and are required to rotate sentry duty among the team. What is needed 
is advanced warning systems enabled by integration of sensors and 
onboard intelligence such that robotic platforms can be tasked to self-
deploy and self-maneuver to provide situational awareness and recommend 
a plan of action without being detected.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Army--RDT&E, Medical Advanced Technology.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University and St. 
Johns Health System.

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N. Booneville Ave, Springfield, MO 
65806.

Description of Request: $5.4 million is included in this bill to fund 
technology to allow for the improved ability to quickly treat soldiers 
who sustain severe eye injuries in the field. Currently, the time from 
injury to treatment for eye injuries in the Iraqi conflict averages 
more than 18 hours due to the lack of field-ready, easy-to-use eye 
injury stabilization materials. Walter Reed Army Medical Center feels 
strongly that the project has considerable military relevance and plans 
to collaborate in the program. The use of taxpayer funds is justified 
because many of the injuries suffered by our military personnel serving 
in the Middle East are a result of IED (improvised explosive device) 
mortar and direct action injuries. Between October 2001 and June 2006, 
over 1,100 troops with combat eye trauma were evacuated from overseas 
military operations, making serious eye wounds one of the most common 
types of injury experienced in current U.S. conflicts.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Air Force--RDT&E.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Missouri State University and 
Nantero Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 524 N. Booneville Ave, Springfield, MO 
65806.

Description of Request: $7.2 million included in this bill for Carbon 
Nanotube-based Radiation Hard Nano-Electronic devices.

Requesting Member: Congressman Roy Blunt.

Bill Number: H.R. 2638.

Account: Global Command And Control System Research, Development, 
Test And Evaluation, Air Force.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Gestalt/Accenture.

Address of Requesting Entity: 320 4th Street, Joplin, MO 64801.

Description of Request: $4 million is included in this bill for the 
purpose of allowing the delivery of critical information across a low-
bandwidth enterprise and to manage services. C2SLM will enable our 
military to respond to the agility of our opponent by building agility 
and flexibility into our technology. C2SLM has been selected by the 
Pentagon to be the early pathfinder for the A-Staff, which will lead to 
a contract in excess of several hundred million to address non-AOC 
command and control for COCOMs and NAFs.
