---
---

# THE COUNTDOWN CREW
## `8f2f4ceee569f96cce0fbcf7360dcc38`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky â€” 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. I think, to the gentleman's point, I received 
some correspondence from a colonel who came back from Iraq recently, 
and he shared this perspective. He shared that he had worked for 
General Abizaid, and he just made the comment, General Abizaid, the 
Central Command Commander, made the comment that dealing with Islamic 
radicalism is something that you want to do as an away game. And unlike 
different times in our history that, again, regardless of perceptions 
of the decisions that were made before you and I came here to be 
engaged in this conflict, there are second- and third-order effects 
that will be inherited by a precipitous withdrawal.

And when I go back, I listen to so many different voices with so many 
different perspectives, but the one unity of purpose that they say is 
that there would be profound consequences. In fact, one of the ones 
most recently was a friend who was in Task Force Ranger in Mogadishu, 
which I believe President Clinton reinforced an operation in 1993 to 
capture a tribal leader, a warlord, Mohammed Farah Aideed. This friend 
and Task Force Ranger shared that at the end of the Blackhawk Down 
incident, where America, frankly, lost the information war despite 
completely removing this militia, he shared with me over coffee 
recently and said, you know, little did we know that there were al 
Qaeda technical advisers who had served in Afghanistan fighting the 
mujahedin and were sent by Osama bin Laden to assist these groups 
because they were dealing with Americans and the consequences of 
leaving, when, in fact, he said if we had simply been able to stay, it 
would have sent a very different message. We could have accomplished 
the mission of apprehending the foe.

And to your point, again, the troops, I think, oftentimes 
inadvertently are used as human shields in debate, but we don't get 
down to the issues of what they really see on the ground and the 
perspective that they bring to this discussion.