# HONORING COMMAND SERGEANT MAJOR NEIL RUSSELL FOR 38 YEARS OF SERVICE
## `8f3f5ec2e80b8d031a771214e54f2322`
`Mr. GINGREY of Georgia — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a fellow 
Georgian, Command Sergeant Major (CSM) Neil Russell, on his retirement 
after more than 38 years of service in the Georgia Army National Guard. 
CSM Russell's dedication to duty and service throughout his career has 
led to numerous accomplishments that he will undoubtedly carry with him 
forever as he moves into the next phase of his life.

CSM Russell began his military career with the Georgia Army National 
Guard when he graduated high school in 1971, and he has been humbly 
serving our nation in this capacity ever since. His military education 
includes the Fire Direction Computer Course, the Equal Opportunity and 
Race Relations Course, the NCOES Advance and Senior Courses, the Battle 
Skills Course, the U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy Course, the U.S. 
Army Command Sergeants Major Designee Course, and the Bradley Infantry 
Crewman Course at numerous military installations across the country. 
These experiences laid the course for an illustrious career for CSM 
Russell. He also holds an Associates Degree in Science from Brunswick 
Junior College and a Bachelor of Science from Excelsior College in 
Albany, NY.

CSM Russell served in the 118th Field Artillery Brigade in Savannah, 
GA as a Fire Direction Specialist and Operations NCO until August of 
1981, when he was assigned to the Service Battery 2nd Battalion, 214th 
Field Artillery as the Battalion Supply Sergeant. In May of 1985, he 
was transferred back to the 118th Field Artillery Brigade. He remained 
there until September of 1992 when he was transferred to the 1st 
Battalion, 118th Field Artillery Battalion as the Battalion Operations 
NCO, and in May of 1999 he was selected and transferred to the 122nd 
Rear Operations Center (ROC) as the unit Operations Sergeant Major. 
Finally, in May of 2005, CSM Russell was selected and reassigned as the 
JFHQ Command Sergeant Major for the Georgia Army National Guard, and he 
has honorably served in this capacity until his retirement.

CSM Russell trained at the National Training Center in Ft. Irwin, CA 
with the 1st Battalion, 118th Field Artillery in 1996 and has 
participated in numerous OCONUS exercises while serving in the 122nd 
ROC. In November of 2000, he mobilized with the 122nd ROC in support of 
Operation Enduring Freedom. The 122nd ROC became the basis around which 
a task force was created to establish, coordinate, and manage the civil 
affairs mission in Afghanistan. In January of 2002, CSM Russell 
deployed with the task force to Kabul, Afghanistan, and he functioned 
as the Task Force Command Sergeant Major until June of 2002, when he 
re-deployed. This task force was awarded the Joint Meritorious Unit 
Award for exceptional achievement for the period between November of 
2001 and July of 2002.

Throughout his illustrious career, CSM Russell has been presented the 
Georgia State Active Duty Ribbon, the Georgia Commendation Medal, the 
National Defense Service Medal with Service Star, the Army Reserve 
Component Achievement Medal, the Armed Forces Reserve Medal, the Army 
Service Ribbon, the NCO Professional Development Ribbon, the Army 
Reserve Component Overseas Training Ribbon, the Humanitarian Service 
Medal, the Joint Services Achievement Medal, the Army Achievement 
Medal, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, the Army Commendation 
Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal, and the Bronze Star Medal. Each 
one of these medals and ribbons signify the admirable service that CSM 
Russell has graciously displayed in his career in the Georgia Army 
National Guard.

CSM Russell has made a lasting contribution to the capability of 
today's United States Army National Guard. His superior performance of 
duties highlights the culmination of more than 37 years of honorable 
and dedicated Army National Guard service. My home state of Georgia and 
our nation are proud of CSM Russell's exemplary professional 
competence, sound judgment, and total dedication to duty. He has 
reflected great credit upon himself and has always upheld the highest 
traditions of the Army National Guard. I wish Neil and his family all 
the best in their future endeavors as he enters into a well-deserved 
retirement after such a distinguished career of service.
