# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `8f40a0dc7b7955695e0cf9cc2ee563e6`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. I thank the chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee and Mr. Price for bringing this legislation forward. It is 
fully consistent with what the vast majority of this House voted for in 
the report language in the Defense appropriations bill. It needs to be 
done.

I have to tell you that after talking with so many soldiers in Iraq 
and those who have returned from Iraq, it is desperately urgent that we 
do it because things are out of control.

The fact is that many of these contractors, not all of them, but too 
many of them are acting with impunity. They tell me that they will work 
all day trying to communicate and working with the people in a village, 
trying to understand their customs and the like and show them respect, 
and then it is undermined by the actions of these security contractors 
who don't understand the language, who don't show the kind of respect 
that our soldiers do, who get paid almost three times what our soldiers 
get paid. It is undermining our mission in Iraq.

The fact is that this is not what America is about, conducting 
oneself with impunity. America is about equal justice under the law. It 
is about protecting the preciousness of human life, particularly 
innocent life.

It is not about outsourcing our inherent military functions, giving a 
contractor $1 billion since 2004 and having 200 incidents of misconduct 
reported by that very contractor.

This legislation is necessary. Let's pass it overwhelmingly. Let's 
send that message to our soldiers.