# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `8f505aa3129f9d268c2e7193e1e18529`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of 
this resolution. The responsible redeployment of our troops is a brave 
step toward a new direction for the war in Iraq. It will remove our 
troops from the most dangerous kill zones in Iraq and refocus our 
efforts toward defeating terrorism across the globe.

The decision to redeploy is one that I have not come to lightly. This 
bill gives the President the power to maintain a military presence in 
the region while, at the same time, imposing the accountability the 
American people demand that we enforce.

Four years into a difficult and prolonged engagement, I had hoped we 
would have seen better proposals for progress in quelling the violence. 
Throughout the course of our debate, whether on the air waves, Internet 
or in the halls of Congress, we've heard much of the supposed failures 
of our military goals. We hear often of continued strife and 
instability in the nation we sought to set free; of an Iraqi economy 
crippled by the trials of war; of parliamentary disputes, civil unrest 
and sectarian violence; and of a peace we all believe in that has yet 
to take place in Iraq.

But these stories, however true, are only a portion of our efforts. 
They are the darkest side of our endeavors meant to do good and 
sinfully omit the triumphs and victories of our sons and daughters 
who've done a great service.

For all that remains undone, our troops have accomplished a great 
deal. We brought free and open elections to a nation once shackled by a 
tyrannical regime. Iraq has experienced freedoms unimagined before, and 
Saddam Hussein was put to death for his crimes.

It is in this vein that we must continue our presence in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, the greater Middle East and around the world, for it is 
essential to our security.

As we prepare to redeploy our troops from Iraq, we must commit as 
well to remain ever vigilant in the face of terrorism. Whether they are 
threats to America and her allies, whether radicalism threatens the 
foundations of the natural freedoms we've sought so hard to prove, we 
must prepare ourselves to face those threats and bring their agents 
either to justice or a swift demise.

We must continue our hunt for Osama Bin Laden and the instruments of 
al Qaeda. While I am behind the efforts to redeploy, our military must 
be equipped and prepared to protect American civilians, property and 
interests at home and abroad.

As I prepared my case today on the merits of redeployment, I was 
reminded of a speech delivered by Congressman Abraham Lincoln on 
January 12, 1848, that railed against President James K. Polk of 
Tennessee for bringing our country to war with Mexico. Lincoln believed 
that Polk had stretched the facts to fit the case for war, just as many 
have expressed their belief here that our President stretched the truth 
about WMDs to make his case for war.

President Polk's war with Mexico yielded the borders that stand 
today. Our nations endured the battle of Vera Cruz, the battle of 
Mexico City, but the results of the Mexican-American war remain, and 
our two countries live as partners in peace. The results of the war 
yielded positive results. History has favorably judged James K. Polk, 
just as history will judge this President.

So as the President considers signing the order to redeploy, I hope 
he will. I implore him to consider the advice of Mr. Lincoln.