# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `8f5951cb4b2fe37c7dba4d372eda0e1b`
`Mr. WOLF — 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, Simon and Garfunkel have a song that they sang 
in Central Park called ''The Boxer.'' And in it, it says ''Man hears 
what he wants to hear and disregards the rest.'' To a certain extent, 
the Congress is


just hearing what it wants to hear and disregarding the rest. Eric 
Holder and the Justice Department was ready to release into our 
neighborhoods some of these people almost 2 weeks ago. I first wrote 
the Attorney General on March 13, 2 months ago, to ask a series of 
questions. And I share what my friend from Virginia said. We are 
shutting down Guantanamo. That is not the issue that you are dealing 
with here. You are dealing with what are you going to do and what plan 
do you have as you shut it down.

On April 23 I wrote a second letter to Eric Holder of the Justice 
Department asking some other questions, just asking, what is your plan? 
How are you going to deal with the holding of it? What metropolitan 
areas will it be? I raised a number of concerns. And, again, no 
response. The other day we did another letter, the third letter. And 
when we were in the committee, some of the Members didn't know and said 
they could be removed and they could not be removed until they checked 
with the Congress, and that was not the case because Eric Holder was 
ready to move them out without making a report. What type of security 
will they go to? Let's just get a report.

This administration needs to be upfront with the Congress. And if the 
Congress doesn't have this desire to know, then at least they ought to 
be upfront with the American people because I think the American people 
know. Do all the Members of Congress know the State Department listed 
the ETIM, which the Uyghurs are a part of, as a terrorist organization 
in 2002, the same year the embassy in Beijing indicated ETIM planned an 
attack on the U.S. embassy in Kazakhstan? Do all the Members know that 
this group's militants fought alongside al Qaeda and Taliban in 
Afghanistan? Does the Congress know that a month ago the Obama Treasury 
Department, to its credit, targeted al Qaeda support network by 
designating Abdul Haq, the overall leader and commander of the Eastern 
Turkistan Islamic Party, as a terrorist?

Does the Congress know and should the American people know that Abdul 
Haq raised funds and recruited new members to further the terrorists' 
activities? Does anyone know that in 2005, Haq was put on the Sharia 
Council for al Qaeda? Does anyone know that in early January '08, Haq 
directed that this group commander attack various Chinese cities, 
particularly the Olympics? Frankly, I was disappointed that President 
Bush went to the Olympics. But there were a lot of American citizens 
there.

So we are asking questions before they do this. And sometimes I think 
some people are trying to say that it is not about closing Guantanamo 
Bay or not. Guantanamo Bay, whether you like it or not, is going to be 
closed. What we are talking about is how do you dispose of and what do 
you do to the detainees?

And, frankly, this Congress sometimes--we now sit on interrogation 
memos. No one wants to say that they knew anything. Well, the Congress 
ought to know everything. If you have the oversight responsibility, you 
ought to be willing to have it and hold it. So that is what we are 
saying, nothing more. And I appreciate Mr. Obey adding some good things 
in there. I want to pay tribute that he has. And I appreciate it. But I 
was foreclosed in the committee. And I thought we would have a 
unanimous bipartisan vote, and we were shut out. So we are just asking.

Three letters, Eric Holder says, ''O, I will not answer the letters. 
And, lastly, no FBI agent was able to come to my office, or I 
understand other offices up here on the Hill, to give them a briefing. 
As I said earlier, that if Attorney General Ashcroft----