---
---

# None
## `8f65b3ffd0ca53af8898296eb6f6d6ad`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3087, 
legislation that will require the administration to develop and share 
with Congress a comprehensive strategy for the redeployment of U.S. 
forces from Iraq.

Our Nation recognizes that we cannot remain in Iraq indefinitely. 
Just last week, General George Casey, the Army Chief of Staff, 
testified before the House Armed Services Committee that ongoing 
operations in Iraq were having a detrimental impact on our military 
readiness, endangering our ability to deal with other contingencies or 
problems. Our troops have done a superb job in a difficult mission, but 
they were not sent to Iraq to referee a civil war, and we need to bring 
them home. The violence in Iraq does not have a U.S. military solution; 
the answer lies in the Iraqi political reconciliation, which we must 
support with different methods.

The legislation before us today demonstrates Congress's commitment to 
ending our military presence in Iraq by mandating that the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, report on the status of planning for redeployment of U.S. forces 
from Iraq and to provide periodic updates about their implementation. 
This information is vital for congressional oversight so that we ensure 
our policies are informed by sound judgment and reflect the complex 
logistical considerations involved with an undertaking of such 
magnitude. The administration's poor planning for the post-invasion 
period led to widespread problems in reconstruction and created the 
environment of instability that reigns to this day. We must avoid 
making that mistake again so that our withdrawal from Iraq does not 
exacerbate existing problems or create new ones.

I will continue to work with my colleagues to demand a swift and safe 
withdrawal of our U.S. forces from Iraq, and I encourage all of my 
colleagues to support this measure.