# None
## `8f662cf6e3aadb0b0c881a1241557036`
`Mr. DeFAZIO — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. DeFAZIO. I thank the gentleman for his leadership on this issue 
and for this amendment. I think this is very necessary. This is not a 
fine debate about semantics or definitions, it's an issue about the 
integrity of the intelligence process in the United States of America.

It's well-known now that because of a focus that was created by Vice 
President Cheney in the lead-up to the Iraq war and the exclusion of 
the broader views of the intelligence community, that the intelligence 
that was provided to the Congress and other decision makers was not 
comprehensive and not accurate. So the question arises about the 
language in the bill.

Instead of taking the newly formed and reformed national intelligence 
agencies and getting their opinion on the capabilities of Iran, it 
would single out one component of those agencies, the Department of 
Defense, to write a new opinion. I, for one Member, can speak for 
myself, am concerned that this is an attempt to redirect our 
intelligence and to get intelligence that is only coming from a small 
portion of the intelligence community, the same failing that led to the 
lead-up and the faulty intelligence for the Iraq war.

We have reformed the intelligence process. We have confidence in our 
National Intelligence Director, and we should allow him to do his job 
and compile the advice from all the intelligence agencies of the United 
States Government, as was done last fall, which contradicted previous 
opinions on Iraq. We don't want to send any message or direction that 
we are unhappy with that. We want them to do their job, do it properly, 
properly inform us, and there is no reason why any sort of additional 
evaluation should be restricted only to the Department of Defense. That 
just doesn't make sense.

So it's not an argument about semantics, it's about the fact we were 
failed in the run-up to the war by cherry picking and focusing of 
intelligence. We don't want to be failed again. We want the full 
opinion of the national intelligence agencies.

