---
---

# SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON  IRAQ
## `8f76f1b33ac72ff240faf1d139893400`
`Ms. COLLINS — 24 January 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my two colleagues on 
the Senate floor this evening in submitting a very important resolution 
on what is perhaps the greatest challenge facing our country.

Let me first say it has been an honor and a privilege to work with 
the distinguished Senator from Virginia, the former chairman of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, as well as my friend and colleague 
from Nebraska, Senator Ben Nelson. We have worked very hard on this 
resolution, spending many hours wordsmithing the language of it, trying 
to get exactly the kind of serious policy statement we could bring 
before our colleagues in the Senate.

I am very pleased that on the Republican side, we are joined by two 
leaders on this issue, Senator Coleman and Senator Smith. They, too, 
have had input to the resolution. That brings the number of us who are 
joining tonight as original sponsors of our resolution to 10 Members of 
the Senate. I would also note that based on conversations I have had 
with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle, there are several more 
Senators who are very interested in our resolution and may well join in 
cosponsoring it at a later date or certainly in voting for it.

Yesterday the Senate Armed Services Committee held a very useful 
hearing on the nomination of an outstanding military officer, General 
Petraeus, whom the President has tapped to lead our forces in Iraq. 
Earlier today the Senate Armed Services Committee, I believe by 
unanimous vote, voted to report this vital nomination to the full 
Senate. General Petraeus is the ideal person to be taking over as 
commander of our troops in Iraq. If anyone can make what I believe to 
be a flawed strategy a success, it is he. But I had a very interesting 
exchange with General Petraeus. I talked to him about my concern that 
inserting more American troops into Iraq may well lessen the pressure 
on Iraqi leaders to take the long overdue steps that are needed to 
quell the sectarian violence.

I know the President believes the answer is more American troops, 
that that will provide the Prime Minister and other leaders with the 
space they need to take the reforms forward. I fear it is just the 
opposite. I believe it lessens the pressure on the Iraqi leaders.