---
---

# None
## `8f7c402303d438a75356674bef4c65f5`
`Ms. COLLINS — 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, the war in Iraq is the greatest 
challenge facing our country. Unfortunately, the political debate in 
Washington has not been conducive to finding a solution, as political 
divisions have hardened during the past year.

Vitriolic rhetoric and veto threats do not help us pursue a new 
direction. I believe the way forward must be a bipartisan approach that 
puts the interests of our country ahead of political gain. Our Nation 
needs to forge a new bipartisan strategy that will redefine the mission 
and set the stage for a significant but responsible withdrawal of our 
troops over the next year.

Fortunately, we do not have to search far and wide to find this new 
policy. It is already mapped out for us in the unanimous 
recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. This group was 
chaired by former Secretary of State James Baker and former Democratic 
Congressman Lee Hamilton. It has distinguished Americans from both 
parties who worked hard to forge a unanimous, bipartisan consensus on 
the road ahead in Iraq.

The Commission's recommendations chart the path forward and remain as 
viable today as when they were first released last December. The Iraq 
Study Group report lays out three core principles. First, the report 
calls for a fundamental change in the mission of our military forces in 
Iraq, away from combat operations, and instead limited to training and 
equipping the Iraq security forces, conducting counterterrorism 
operations against al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations, and 
securing Iraq's borders.

The Iraq Study Group set a goal of March 2008 for withdrawing those 
combat forces not needed for this newly defined mission and for force 
protection.

Shifting the mission of our troops would require the Iraqi military 
and police to take responsibility for security for their country. It 
would allow tens of thousands of our troops to start coming home, and 
it would demonstrate our military commitment to Iraq is neither open-
ended nor unconditional.

Second, the Iraq Study Group report recommends that American support 
for the Iraqi Government should be conditioned on its leaders making 
progress in meeting specific benchmarks, including the political 
reforms necessary to quell sectarian violence.

I last visited Iraq in December. After I came home, I told my 
constituents I had concluded a new direction in Iraq was needed and it 
would be a mistake to send additional troops to Baghdad, to place them 
in the midst of a sectarian struggle. The solution was political, not 
military.

I told my constituents I thought we should be moving our troops out 
of Baghdad and instead concentrating their effort in Anbar Province, 
where the local population was starting to support our efforts and 
joining in the fight against al-Qaida. In Anbar, the violence was not, 
in December and is not now, primarily sectarian, as it is in


Baghdad and the belt surrounding Baghdad; instead, in Anbar Province 
the fight is against al-Qaida.

The newly defined mission set forth by the Iraq Study Group in 
December would call for us to concentrate our efforts on 
counterterrorism operations, securing Iraq's borders and training the 
Iraqi security forces. We should not be in the midst of what is indeed 
a civil war in Baghdad.

Last week, the President released a progress report, a report called 
for by legislation that I coauthored with Senators John Warner and Ben 
Nelson. This report verified that the Iraqis have made, unfortunately, 
very little progress in achieving the most important political 
benchmarks. This is at a time when the Iraqis have failed to adopt the 
essential reforms to distribute oil revenues more equitably, to reverse 
debaathification, and to more fully integrate the Sunni minority into 
governmental power structures.

It has been our troops that have paid such a heavy price. In fact, 
American troops suffered more casualties during the past 3 months than 
at any time since this war has begun. Requiring the Iraqis to make more 
progress on the political reforms that were part of the strategy, as 
the Baker-Hamilton Commission recommended, is absolutely essential, and 
it is in keeping with the Warner-Collins-Nelson benchmark language 
incorporated into the funding bill.

Third, the Iraq Study Group urges our Government to launch a new 
diplomatic offensive in the region. Both the international community 
and Iraq's neighbors are clearly not doing enough to foster its 
stability, and this must change. Thus, the ISG recommendations 
recognize that the United States has placed too much emphasis on 
military actions at the expense of diplomacy. Fourteen of us, eight 
Democrats and six Republicans, have joined together to offer the Iraq 
Study Group's sound and well thought out unanimous recommendations as 
an amendment to the pending legislation, the Defense authorization 
bill.

Our amendment lays the groundwork for responsible, realistic 
redeployment of American combat troops and emphasizes the need for more 
democracy. By adopting the Iraq Study Group recommendations, the Senate 
can finally chart a new course and move past politics to address the 
most critical issue facing our country.

I have to tell you I think the debate tonight in many ways has been 
disheartening. To see signs put up on the Senate floor saying ''Let us 
vote,'' when our side has not blocked a vote on the cloture motion, we 
have offered to do it at any point this evening. We have offered to do 
it earlier today. We have offered to do it tomorrow. It has been 
disappointing to hear rhetoric that is clearly intended to score 
political points, as it is disappointing to hear the President be so 
inflexible in his approach.

I think the Senator from Tennessee put it well earlier this evening 
when he called for more flexibility on the President's part and more 
flexibility on the part of the Democrats, particularly the leader of 
the Senate.

Having vote after vote, where we fail to get to the threshold of 60 
votes or even 67 votes, if necessary, to override the President's veto 
is not getting us anywhere. We are not moving forward. We have got to 
put aside such a fractious political approach to such a grave crisis.

We need to work together in a bipartisan way. By adopting the Iraq 
Study Group recommendations, the Senate can chart a new course and move 
past politics. Despite the heroic efforts of our troops, who make us 
all so proud, the war in Iraq has been characterized by lost 
opportunity after lost opportunity due to the misjudgments of this 
administration. I hope the Senate will not lose this opportunity to 
change direction in a responsible bipartisan way.

In addition to the Iraq Study Group recommendation amendment, which I 
am proud to cosponsor, and I salute the leadership of Senator Salazar 
and Senator Alexander in bringing together a new Gang of 14, to work on 
this proposal, there is also another bipartisan approach that Senator 
Ben Nelson and I have offered as an amendment to this bill.

Let me briefly explain our proposal to our colleagues. Now, some of 
our colleagues are looking for a middle ground. Again, in addition to 
the Iraq Study Group amendment, Senator Nelson and I are proposing 
another attempt to find a middle ground. Our proposal would require the 
President to immediately transition to a new strategy. This strategy is 
very similar to the one laid out by the Iraq Study Group. It would move 
us away from combat operations and instead focus our efforts on 
counterterrorism operations, border security, and training of Iraqi 
security forces.

But it requires, and here is how it differs from the Salazar-
Alexander approach, which I also support, it requires the President to 
immediately begin transitioning to that new strategy. Not in 120 days, 
not next year, not after September, but immediately. Then it sets a 
goal that the transition period should be completed by the first 
quarter of next year, by March 31, 2008.


So it sets forth a mandatory requirement for the President to 
immediately transition to a new strategy. I think this makes a lot of 
sense. There are so many people in the Senate who support a new 
strategy. We ought to be able to get that done, and I respectfully 
suggest to my colleagues that the Nelson-Collins amendment would move 
us quickly, the most quickly toward that new strategy.

I sincerely hope tomorrow we will see the dawn of a new approach to 
our strategy in Iraq. I hope very much that we will see a strong vote 
for the proposal offered by 14 of us, led by Senator Salazar and 
Senator Alexander, to adopt the unanimous bipartisan recommendations of 
the Iraq Study Group. Surely, if as diverse a group as James Baker, Lee 
Hamilton, Larry Eagleburger, Vernon Jordan, Ed Meese, Sandra Day 
O'Connor, Leon Panetta, William Perry, Chuck Robb, and Alan Simpson can 
come together in the interest of this country, study our dilemma, study 
the war in Iraq, and produce a report unanimously, surely we in the 
Senate ought to be able to put aside our partisan concerns, our 
political divisions, and act together in the best interests of this 
country.

I hope we will do so tomorrow. I also hope we might adopt the Nelson-
Collins amendment which would add a little more force to the 
recommendations of the changed mission put forth by the Iraq Study 
Group.

This is our opportunity. Let us not lose this opportunity to forge a 
new path, a new strategy in Iraq.

I thank the Chair.