---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `8f7e858399345ea1391167a3ed074519`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 12 March 2008`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, there are many passionate pleas we hear 
across our country. Hopefully, the passionate pleas we make here on the 
floor of the Senate on behalf of our constituents can be seen as 
passionate as many we witness--some here today, and certainly others. I 
continue with my passionate plea on behalf of the soldiers, the brave 
American men and women who serve this great country. In what we have 
seen in the backlog, through the Veterans' Administration, certainly it 
is an indication that we can do a better job in providing those 
benefits to the service men and women who have done such a courageous 
job on behalf of this great Nation and all of us.


What I recommended in my amendment are recommendations that I think 
complement the recommendations provided in the Budget Views and 
Estimates from both the House and Senate Committees on Veterans' 
Affairs. Again, I thank Chairman Akaka for all of his hard work and 
Chairman Conrad for working with us on this issue.

Our veterans are a very passionate issue to many of us, coming from a


family where my dad was an infantryman in Korea. We talked earlier 
about the impression our families leave on us. Senator Conrad mentioned 
his grandmother who believed in education. I grew up in a household 
very much like that. My husband did as well. My husband's grandmother 
is going to be 111 this year and she is still preaching education. She 
is still on her own, still out there making sure that every child who 
got her Christmas letter this year knew the importance of education. 
Certainly, without a doubt, those of us who grew up in households that 
had tremendous respect for the patriots, the brave and courageous men 
and women who serve this country in the Armed Forces, deserve that same 
kind of passion.

We discussed in those documents, coming to a close here, that it is 
imperative for the Veterans Benefits Administration to make greater 
investments in the training programs to prepare new hires for the 
complicated process of compensation claims adjudication.

Additionally, workload production initiatives such as technological 
improvements offer the hope of reducing additionally the average time 
for a claims decision. The brave men and women who have served our 
Nation in uniform should be a priority for each one of us. As we hear 
all kinds of conversation and talk about people's positions on whether 
we should be in conflict, whether we should be engaged in war, there 
should be no debate, there should be no conflict, in whether those who 
are serving this country in uniform deserve to be sure that the 
benefits they have earned and they deserve are rightly in place for 
them, and something they can use, not set about waiting 180 days to 
hear back from somebody to tell them they have yet another 180 days to 
wait until they actually get those benefits. The number of veterans who 
contact my office for help grows each year, and I am sure it does in 
the offices of many of my colleagues. Unfortunately, the backlog is 
often denying them the benefits they desperately need for years; not 
just weeks or days, but years. It is simply unacceptable.

The lessons ingrained in me since childhood have taught me that after 
a person has served in the military, we should make absolutely every 
effort, not just priority but every effort, to fund and make real their 
benefits and to honor those individuals who have earned them and care 
for them and their families, those who have served this great country. 
It is the least we can do for those to whom we owe so much. It is the 
least we can do to reassure future generations, and those who are 
serving in the field today, that a grateful nation will not forget them 
when their military service is complete.

Mr. President, I thank the chairmen for working with us, hopefully, 
again, as passionately as the passion that has been displayed in this 
Chamber today about people's views on military service and certainly 
the conflict in Iraq. We can make good on the promise we made to our 
soldiers who have served so courageously and bravely.

I thank the Chair, and I yield back the floor.