---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `8f896acc2eb3a17daf111d1d5269ddc6`
`Mr. PEARCE — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. PEARCE. I thank the gentleman from California for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, we are told today that it's time to refocus on the war 
on terror. Yet as I read this bill, and I would encourage each one of 
you to go online and read H.R. 2956, I see no refocus on the war on 
terror.

I see nothing in H.R. 2956 which describes the threat from radical 
jihad. I see no plan.

We are told that we need to communicate with the White House, that we 
need to send a bold message to the President. I am sorry, he's right 
down the street. It's the people who are causing terror, worldwide 
terror, that the communication needs to be sent to.

Now, I can't tell you exactly what our troops are feeling as we 
debate these measures.

I can tell you that I was in Vietnam flying missions in Vietnam at 
the time that Jane Fonda gave aid and comfort to our enemy, and a time 
that this Congress was withdrawing support from that war. And I can 
tell you what soldiers at that time felt. They felt dismay. They felt 
betrayal. They felt like we had been led down a path.

If this were really an attempt by our majority party to deal with the 
situation that they are concerned about, it should have an immediate 
withdrawal date. But it lacks that because it's a political tool rather 
than an attempt to refocus on the war on terror.

I can tell you that it does not ask key questions, key questions 
like, how will unilateral withdrawal prevent al Qaeda, Hezbollah and 
other terrorist operatives already in Iraq from establishing robust 
training facilities from which to plan and execute additional strikes 
against the United States?

It fails to answer the question that both Israel and Jordan have 
asked when they said that unilateral withdrawal, much like the 
Democrats' plan, would have a devastating consequence on their 
countries and the region as a whole.

What impact will our unilateral withdrawal from Iraq have on the 
safety of regional allies, such as Israel, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, 
Kuwait? Those questions go unasked and unaddressed in H.R. 2956, 
because this is not a plan to refocus the war on terror. This is a plan 
to withdraw and hope that we can retreat home without anyone following 
us.

It just won't happen that way. The terrorists will come with us as we 
retreat.

I urge defeat of H.R. 2956.