---
---

# FORT HOOD
## `8f9160aaefc43fb7db917a9402b4369d`
`Mr. CARTER — 2 February 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. Mr. Speaker, I hail from Central Texas, and I am very, 
very proud to say that I have the largest military facility in the 
world in my district, Fort Hood, Texas. If you are in the Army, you 
know where Fort Hood is. In fact, I think if you find any 20-year 
veteran of the Army, you will find out they have been to Fort Hood, 
some of them once, twice, three, four times, because it is a huge 
training post. And it is the great place, as they call it, in Central 
Texas.

The great place had a great disaster happen to us on November 5 of 
last year, when Major Nidal Hasan attacked and killed 13 soldiers and a 
baby in the womb, and wounded 43 others before two courageous police 
officers, responding to this violence at Fort Hood,


came and basically shot the man and brought him down, one of them, a 
young lady, getting shot in the process. They got him captured. He is 
now the subject of much discussion around this House of 
Representatives.

And by the way, I don't know if anyone noticed. I was very surprised 
at the State of the Union to see those two officers sitting right up 
here with the First Lady of the United States, and I was very surprised 
also that they weren't introduced to the House. But if you noticed two 
police officers sitting by Michelle Obama, they weren't introduced at 
the State of the Union, but those were the two officers who responded 
to Major Hasan when he went on his shooting rampage. We honored them, 
and the President and the First Lady were honoring them as heroes of 
the United States, and rightfully so.

But I want us to first realize what happened at Fort Hood. And 
everybody says, Oh, come on. I know what happened. Sure, you listened 
to all the reports. But today I was talking with the mayor of Belton, 
which is actually the county seat of Bell County.

Fort Hood sits in two counties, Bell and Coryell County. Fort Hood is 
hundreds of thousands of acres and it straddles the county line between 
those two great counties. The combined population of the two counties 
is over 300,000 people. So this is a growing area of Texas, and much of 
that growth that is in the western part of Bell County and the eastern 
part of Coryell County is military folks that have retired and come 
back to live close to Fort Hood, or they are presently serving in the 
military in some form or fashion, or they got out and went to work for 
something that is related to the military in Central Texas.

We are a military community. We love our soldiers. I would argue that 
no place on Earth does more for the families and soldiers than Fort 
Hood, Texas.

I love to tell the story of being in a Rotary Club meeting back in 
2003 or 2004, I don't remember what it was, but I know that the 4th 
Infantry Division was deployed overseas from Fort Hood at that time. 
And it was along about March, somewhere around that time, when I was 
going to give a talk to that Rotary Club. It is a huge club, meets in 
the morning. Hundreds of people were there. And one of the Rotarians 
got up and said, Ladies and gentlemen, I want to remind you, our 
soldiers are deployed. Baseball season is starting. Our coaches for our 
Little League, Pony, Colt, and other leagues where our kids play 
baseball are over fighting a war to protect our freedom, and we need 
coaches. So it is up to us Rotarians to stand in for those fathers and 
mothers who are not going to be able to coach their kids.

Now, that is a community that thinks outside the box to make sure 
that the kids and families of these deployed soldiers can live as 
normal a life as they can while these soldiers are deployed. I wanted 
to tell you that story, Members, because it tells you the heart of the 
Fort Hood community in an easy story.


But when I was visiting with the mayor of Belton today, you don't 
realize the ramifications of something like what this Major Hasan did.

First, we very quickly realized after the shooting and the days and 
weeks that came after the shooting that you had a lot of soldiers 
saying to themselves: Wait, a minute. This guy wasn't in some other 
Army. This guy was in my Army. He was in the same uniform I wear, and 
he shot my brother and sister soldiers and killed them and he was 
targeting soldiers to kill. Now, that plays upon the psyche of 
soldiers.

Now, let me explain to you how important this is at Fort Hood, Texas, 
because the Fourth Infantry Division deploys out of there, III Corps 
Command is at Fort Hood, and the 1st Cavalry Division, as well as 
various other organizations. All of these folks have been deployed 
multiple times. The people that are stationed at Fort Hood are war 
fighters, and they have been involved in this war since its inception, 
and they will continue to do their duty, which is a great strain upon 
their families and a great strain upon these individual soldiers. But 
they do it because it is the right thing to do and they know that.

These are our great generation. These are heroes, real true heroes. 
And do you know what? Just doing any job that is that stressful that 
many times repetitively wears upon you even if you weren't getting shot 
at or blown up. So this is a highly stressed, highly strung-out 
community.

When this happened at Fort Hood, first responders from all the 
surrounding communities headed to Fort Hood. SWAT teams headed for Fort 
Hood. And if you recall, if you were listening during the play-by-play 
as it was being developed, you heard people say there are some who say 
there were three shooters, and so they are looking for the other two. 
What I didn't realize until I was talking to the mayor of Belton--and 
Belton is like 26 miles from Fort Hood--he said that, because they 
didn't know if the other shooters had gotten out of the post and were 
loose in the community, they locked down all the schools where there 
were soldiers' children just in case this was a plan to spread out and 
kill family members.

And so we had, from high school down to elementary school, children 
locked down in the schools, and we were keeping people out and their 
parents couldn't pick them up. And the first responders' communications 
systems were overwhelmed with concerned parents from two full counties, 
300,000 people.

So what this man did at Fort Hood that day frightened all the kids in 
two counties. And there are tens of thousands of kids going to those 
schools in those counties, multiple high schools. These are our largest 
high schools in Texas. They were locked down.

I tell you all this because I want you to know that this was truly, 
not just a traumatic event for the Army, this was a traumatic event for 
the people who support the Army and for the families who are supported 
by the people who support the Army.

Now, the mental health professionals came in in droves, and a lot of 
great work was done, and I praise everyone who did that. But when I 
heard that story about these little kids locked down, let's take some 
little sixth-grade kid or fifth-grade kid, or maybe someone smaller, a 
first-grade kid who had the trauma of all of a sudden the doors were 
locked to his school and his mama couldn't pick him up or her mama 
couldn't pick her up. And then they started hearing why: There has been 
somebody shot over at Fort Hood.

Now, all these kids have soldiers at Fort Hood who are their parents. 
Some of them have two parents who are soldiers at Fort Hood. Now, there 
has got to be fear in the hearts of these little kids, and they want to 
know what happened. And when school is out and people are talking about 
it and they are watching it on television, they are trying to figure 
out what happened. And I am sure parents tried to sit down and explain 
it where they calmed the little children down. But I am going to argue 
with you or state to you here tonight that a recent report that was put 
out by a commission that was appointed by the Obama administration to 
tell us about the incident at Fort Hood, I would say if you read that 
report or you explained that report to little kids who were locked down 
at Fort Hood, you wouldn't even know that Mr. Major Nidal Hasan gave 
every indication that he was a radical Islamic Muslim terrorist, 
because it is not discussed in the report, and it should be.



I don't know who pulled the strings on this, but I know who is 
responsible, and that is the administration. We learned all kinds of 
things the Army needs to do differently and all kinds of things they 
need to talk about, the chain of command, yada, yada, yada, as my 
college-age girl would say. But we didn't hear anything about radical 
Islam. We didn't hear anything about this because, I would argue, and I 
think there are people across this country that are arguing, that it 
was because of political correctness. Political correctness.

Excuse me, at some point in time it is just good intelligence, good 
police work to look at what makes up the chances are of the next 
terrorist attack. And to ignore it, and to act like you can't talk 
about it because you might hurt somebody's feelings--I tried sitting 
here tonight to remember as far back as I could, and I don't know how 
many years ago it was that the Munich Olympics was, but that was a 
radical Muslim terrorist attack. And every attack since that time has 
been a radical


Muslim terrorist attack. So why can't we talk about the fact that our 
enemy seems to be, good intelligence seems to tell us, is radical 
Islamic terrorists?

Now, why in the world can you write a report about a guy who walked 
down a peaceable line, some of the people checking in from being at 
war, and some of the people checking out to go to war, doing their 
everyday duty of getting through that process of processing in, 
processing out, and this guy walks down the line shooting soldiers in 
uniform, shouting out, ''Allahu Akbar,'' God is great, which is a part 
of the declaration of that religion. And I am not attacking that 
religion. But you can't talk about it. If you can't talk about it, you 
can't figure it out.

And to write a report with this many Americans killed where they 
should have been safe, and this many Americans wounded where they 
should have been safe, and not mention the profile of the guy that did 
the shooting, and to give me the excuse when I asked the question, 
well, we are afraid it will mess up their murder case. Well, let me 
tell you, I will state this again for the record, if you have got a law 
degree and you are supposed to be able to practice law and you can't 
prove a murder case where you got 200 eyewitnesses, you need to send 
your law degree back to law school and turn in your bar card because 
you are an ineffective lawyer. And there are at least 200 people that 
witnessed this guy shooting these folks.

So I mean give me a break. They don't have any proof problems to 
prove this case. That is not a reason not to talk about who did the 
shooting or who is alleged to do it. And I am an old judge, use the 
term alleged. It is perfectly good. But they don't even talk about who 
is alleged to have done the shooting or what kind of person that was.

What do we know about him now? I will have to give our news 
organizations a lot of credit. We know that he acted erratically for 
months before the attack. That he promoted radical Islamic views while 
at Walter Reed Hospital. That he exchanged emails with Anwar al-Awlaki, 
a Yemen cleric which we are reading about every day in the newspaper 
who is one of the now major promoters of terrorism. No action was taken 
against him when he would have debates with other members of the 
military, and his position was what our soldiers were doing in Iraq and 
Afghanistan was worse than what terrorist attacks do or the 9/11 
attack. That the 9/11 attack doesn't equal America's war fighting 
efforts. And nobody reported him? In fact, they promoted him to get him 
out of their hair, to move him to another duty station so they didn't 
have to put up with him.

And it was all about Islamic terrorism, and yet our government writes 
a report and just fails to mention it. And what is really amazing, 
really amazing to me, I mean there are a lot of people pointing a 
finger at me and saying that guy is a right wing wacko. That is why he 
is standing up there. I won't shy away from the right wing part of it. 
I will shy away from the wacko part.

But I will tell you, who else has raised this question? Kind of 
interesting. Time Magazine has raised the question in an article, 
''Fort Hood Report: Why No Mention of Islam?'' Now, that is certainly 
not a famous right wing radical group. I would call them leaning over 
pretty hard to the left. Here is another one. You sure wouldn't 
consider people at the San Francisco Chronicle to be right wing wackos, 
but here it is: ''Political Correctness on Fort Hood at the Pentagon.'' 
And it is about why didn't they talk about who this guy was.

So that is one of the things I got up for. And I see I am joined by 
one of my dear friends, who is always there for me, Phil Gingrey from 
Georgia. He and I are classmates. He always has something good to say.

Doc, I yield whatever time you would like to use.