---
---

# AMERICAN ENERGY SOLUTIONS FOR LOWER GAS PRICES
## `8f9812ef014f4519557a66ba35391f4a`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 22 July 2008`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. You are exactly right.

I wanted to read this one quote, Mr. Speaker, that I think will give 
the American people an idea of exactly what is going on because back in 
April of 2006 then minority leader, now Speaker Pelosi made a 
statement, ''Vote for us,'' the Democrats, ''because we have a 
commonsense plan to bring down the skyrocketing price of gas.''

At the time gas was probably $2.23 a gallon. Right now it is about 
$4.08. This was a statement that was made by Mr. Kanjorski recently 
when he was campaigning. He was talking to one of his local papers. 
Here is what he said, and this was in reference to bringing home the 
troops out of Iraq, but it is just as good a reference to the energy 
crisis that we have. He said, ''We sort of stretched the truth, and the 
people ate it up.'' What a comment to make. ''We sort of stretched the 
truth, and the people ate it up.''

Well, Mr. Speaker, I think the people have chewed on this enough, at 
least I hope that they have chewed on it enough. Mr. Speaker, if I 
could speak to the American people, which I know I can't, but if I 
could, I would say if you've had enough, let your Congressperson know 
about it, that you are ready to do something. You're


ready for this body, this duly-elected body to put forth a plan to 
bring down not just the skyrocketing price of gas, but of food. Because 
as we have made efforts to have biofuels and ethanol, the price of corn 
has gone up. The price of all petroleum products have gone up. And what 
we are faced with is a gallon of milk costing more and a loaf of bread 
costing more, and they sort of stretched the truth. Well, I'm saying 
they stretched the truth a pretty good ways if they are talking about a 
commonsense plan to bring down the skyrocketing price of gas.

I see another one of my good colleagues, the gentleman from Marietta, 
Dr. Gingrey.