---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `8f9988b6e53fab8d7534f6a2f0a38934`
`Mr. GERLACH — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. GERLACH. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican caucus 
standards on earmarks, I am submitting the following information for 
publication in the Congressional Record regarding earmarks included at 
my request in H.R. 2638, Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, 
and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009.

 Department of Defense Appropriations.

 Account: Operation and Maintenance.

 Defense Wide: Collegiate Consortium for Workforce and Economic 
Development, 4747 South Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania--
$800,000 for the Delaware Valley Continuing Education Initiative for 
National Guard and Reserve. The funding would be used to provide job-
skills training and continuing education to Veterans, National Guard 
and Reserve personnel returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Military and 
civilian personnel displaced by the closure of the Willow Grove Naval 
Air Station will also be eligible for education and job-training 
services.

 Bentley Systems, Inc., 685 Stockton Drive, Exton, Pennsylvania--$1 
million for U.S. Navy Mobile Condition Assessment System Pilot for 
Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic (CNRMA). The funding would be used 
to develop and test the U.S. Navy Mobile Condition Assessment System 
Pilot; a mobile condition assessment system that could quickly assess 
damage and infrastructure recovery needs to improve response time to 
natural disaster or terrorist attack.

 Account: Research Development Test and Evaluation.

 Defense Wide: Morphotek Inc., 210 Welsh Pool Road, Exton, 
Pennsylvania--$1.6 million for Mismatch Repair Derived Antibody 
Medicines to Treat Staphylococcus-derived bio-weapons. The funding 
would be used to develop antidotes against staphylococcus-based bio-
weapons. Previous work has resulted in the discovery of potent lead 
drugs that, with supplemental funding, will advance to preclinical 
studies required as part of a package required to file an 
Investigational New Drug (IND) application for proof-of-concept in 
human trials.

 Army: Global Seating Systems LLC, 150 Gordon Drive, Exton, 
Pennsylvania--$3 million for the Next Generation Protective Seat. The 
funding would be used to continue improving military seating systems to 
protect U.S. troops on the battlefield. Focus would be on improving 
mine blast/IED blast mitigation technology, occupant crash protection, 
weight reduction, platform integration, troop seat development, gunner 
seat development and improved fire protection.

 Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, 925 Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania--$1.6 million for the Center of Cardiac 
Surgery Robotic Computerized Telemanipulation as part of a 
comprehensive approach to advanced heart care. The funding would be 
used to add a new Program for Advanced Heart Care at Thomas Jefferson 
University Hospital. The center would concentrate on use of robotics in 
open-heart procedures through the implementation of a DaVinci Robot 
System, and improvements in patient care, length of hospital stay and 
overall cost.

 Rajant Corporation, 400 East King Street, Malvern, Pennsylvania--$4 
million for Portable Emergency Broadband System. The funding would be 
used on developing the second generation system with an effort to 
quadruple the data communications capabilities of the current system, 
add options for military and public-service radio frequencies, and 
transparently bridge to existing public, private and government 
communication systems.

 Air Force: Johnson--Matthey Fuel Cells, Inc., 435 Devon Park Drive, 
Wayne, Pennsylvania--$1 million for Affordable Lightweight Power Supply 
Development. The funding would be used to complete the development and 
testing of a lyotropic LCP micro-composite fuel cell membrane. This 
would allow the Air Force to have a membrane electrode assembly for its 
fuel cells that will operate at temperatures up to 120 C.

 Analytical Graphics Inc., Valley Creek Corporate Center, Building 
220, Suite 100, Exton, Pennsylvania--$2.8 million for COTS Technology 
for Situational Space Awareness. The funding would be used to develop 
responses to threats to our space-based assets--these include Anti-
Satellite (ASAT) weapons and the risks to U.S. satellites from space 
debris as a result of ASAT deployments.



