---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `8f9eca1d5bf85de18aacd0950f43e05c`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. If the Senator would yield further, last week, we did 
accomplish a major achievement in terms of the wounded warrior 
legislation, which is now on this bill, and I believe, on Friday, there 
were speakers on the Iraq issue, on Levin-Reed and other amendments, 
and there were yesterday as well. So the debate on the Iraq amendments 
has taken place, and it is now going to continue today and into the 
night. Hopefully, we can get to a vote on Levin-Reed and not be 
thwarted by this 60-vote procedural roadblock.

Again, I want to say something that has been the case before. We had 
a number of votes on Iraq in the last authorization bill, and those 
were 50-vote votes. There was not a threat of a filibuster that 
deprived the Senate of voting on those amendments in the last 
authorization bill. For instance, there was a Levin-Reed amendment in 
the last authorization bill which I believe received 39 or 40 votes. 
There was also a Kerry amendment on Iraq which was voted up or down 
without that procedural roadblock.

I would hope that on this bill, given the absolute importance of this 
issue and the expression of opinion of the American people last 
November about this issue, that we would be allowed to vote up or down 
and to remove that 60-vote filibuster threat, the roadblock that has 
now been put in the way, and will determine tomorrow whether cloture 
will be invoked and that roadblock can be removed. But the Senator is 
correct, there is ample opportunity for people to come down today to 
continue the debate on the Iraq amendment should they choose.