---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `8fa9c980459160170c5bbe84d410e37d`
`Mrs. BOXER — 20 September 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Feingold-Reid 
amendment.

This amendment would remove our troops from the middle of a civil war 
and give them three achievable missions. First, to conduct targeted 
operations against al-Qaida and affiliated terrorist organizations; 
second, to train and equip Iraqi security forces that have not been 
involved in sectarian fighting or attacks against our forces; and 
third, to provide security for U.S. personnel and infrastructure. For 
all other U.S. forces not essential to these three missions, the 
amendment calls for their safe redeployment beginning in 3 months and 
to be completed by June 30, 2008.

On May 16, the Senate failed to end a filibuster on the Feingold 
amendment by a vote of 29-67. Since that time, 389 Americans have been 
killed in Iraq. In fact this has been the deadliest summer for U.S. 
forces since the war began.

Our troops have done everything asked of them. They achieved every 
mission they have been given. When they were given a clear task, it was 
accomplished. Our military forces defeated the Iraqi army, hunted for 
nonexistent stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction, captured Saddam 
Hussein and his sons, provided security for three elections, and 
trained 350,000 Iraq police and army.

But there are some missions that are beyond the capacity of our 
military. Our military cannot give the Iraqi people the political will 
to achieve a national reconciliation among Sunni, Shia and Kurds. And, 
our military cannot convince Iraq's neighbors to play a positive role 
in ending the violence in Iraq.

The Iraqi people do not want us in Iraq and 70 percent of them 
believe that the surge has made the security situation worse.

Passage of the Feingold-Reid amendment will allow us to renew our 
focus on al-Qaida.

I voted to go to war against al-Qaida. I strongly supported the 
decision to use military force in Afghanistan to oust the Taliban 
government. But then this administration made one of the biggest 
strategic blunders in the history of this nation. It took its eye off 
of al-Qaida and became obsessed with Iraq, a country that had no links 
to al-Qaida.

The cochairs of the 9/11 Commission, Tom Kean and Lee Hamilton, 
recently wrote, ''no conflict drains more time, attention, blood, 
treasure and support from our worldwide counterterrorism efforts than 
the war in Iraq. It has become a powerful recruiting and training tool 
for al-Qaida.''

It is finally time to change the mission in Iraq and redeploy our 
troops out of the middle of this civil war.

And so, Mr. President, I urge the adoption of the Feingold-Reid 
amendment.