---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `8fb4376a533bac06e54a3499eb809b65`
`Ms. HARMAN — 27 May 2010`

---


Ms. HARMAN. I thank the esteemed Chairman Skelton, my dear friend, 
for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, over eight terms in Congress I have served on every 
security committee, including three terms on the Armed Services 
Committee whose bill I am once again proud to support.

As a rookie Member of Congress in 1993, I sat in the most junior 
chair on the HASC, just a few feet away from the witness table. Then-
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Colin Powell, testified in favor of the 
Clinton administration's Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy. I drew a deep 
breath and told the general that I thought Don't Ask, Don't Tell was 
unconstitutional. I opposed it then, and I oppose it now.

No good has ever come of that policy. And I applaud the personal 
courage of current Joint Chiefs Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen who told 
Congress, ''No matter how I look at the issue, I cannot escape being 
troubled by the fact that we have in place a policy which forces young 
men and women to lie about who they are in order to defend their fellow 
citizens.''

The en bloc amendment which we are now debating includes language I 
coauthored with Rules Committee Chair Slaughter to give victims of 
military sexual trauma the ability to seek a base transfer. MST is an 
epidemic which subjects a growing number of servicemembers to serious 
assault and rape. It is horrifying that women in our military are more 
likely to be raped by a fellow soldier than killed by enemy fire in 
Iraq or Afghanistan. MST must end, and this bill makes a very good 
start.

Let me make some general comments about our national security. We 
can't wish away the threats facing our Nation. We, like generations of 
Americans before us, must rise to meet them. We must be realistic about 
our vulnerabilities, about the capabilities of our adversaries, and of 
our allies to help us. We must be wise enough to recognize that we will 
not prevail through military might alone.

Our military, diplomatic, and development efforts are tools to an 
end--security, and eventually peace. These are dangerous times, and 
they require a tough response. We have the strategy in this bill, we 
have the strength in men and women who serve courageously in our 
military and intelligence services, and we have our values. We will not 
fail.

Support this bill. Support the Murphy amendment. Support the en bloc 
amendment.