---
---

# FUTURE INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
## `8fc7b9f269083f20138cf6e347ba70e7`
`Mr. PAUL — 18 November 2009`

---


Mr. PAUL. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I want to express 
my appreciation for your getting this Special Order on this very 
important subject.

Of course, a lot of people in this country are asking, What should we 
do about Afghanistan? It's a pretty important question. It might be one 
of the most important questions that we are asking right now. And yet 
nobody seems to have an answer. I think the difficulty in finding an 
answer comes sometimes from not having fully understood why we got 
there. I just can't imagine this debate that's going on within our 
government today, the executive branch, the legislative branch, and 
with the people--can you imagine this going on during World War II? How 
many troops should we have? What is our exit strategy? Who is our 
enemy? How are we going to impose democracy? It's so far removed from 
what a traditional responsibility is of our government, which is to 
provide national security.

Now they have practically run out of excuses for why we are over in 
Afghanistan. The only one that is left that they seem to cling to is 
that we are there for national security; we want to fight the bad guys 
over there because we don't want to fight them over here. I will talk a 
little about that later; but, quite frankly, I think that's a 
fallacious argument and actually makes things a lot worse.

It just bewilders me about how we get trapped into these situations. 
I happen to believe that it's because we get ourselves involved too 
carelessly, too easily and we don't follow the Constitution, because 
under the Constitution, you're supposed to declare the war, know who 
your enemy is, and know when you can declare victory and bring the 
troops home. And we did that up until and through World War II. But 
since then, that hasn't been the case.

I recall a book I read in the 1980s written by Barbara Tuchman. She 
wrote a book called the ''March of Folly,'' and she went back as far as 
Troy, all the way up through Vietnam and took very special interest in 
countries where they were almost obsessed or possessed with a policy, 
even though it was not in their interest, and the foolishness and the 
inability to change course. She died in 1989, but I keep thinking that 
if she had lived, she would probably write a history of our recent 
years, another ''march of folly.''

Just think of what has happened since the Berlin Wall came down and 
the Soviet system collapsed. It didn't take us long. Did we have any 
peace dividends? No. There were arguments for more military spending, 
we had more responsibility, we had to go and police the world. So it 
wasn't long after that, what were we doing? We were involved in the 
Persian Gulf war.

And then, following that, we had decades of bombing in Iraq which 
didn't please the Arabs and the Muslims of the world and certainly the 
Iraqis, but it had nothing to do with national security.

And then, of course, we continued and accelerated our support of the 
various puppet governments in the Middle East. In doing so, we actually 
went to the part of not only supporting the governments, but we started 
putting troops on their land. And when we had an air base in Saudi 
Arabia, that was rather offensive. If you understand the people over 
there, this is a violation of a deeply held religious view. It is 
considered their holy land; and foreigners, especially military 
foreigners, are seen as infidels. So if you're looking for a fight or a 
problem, just put troops on their land.

But also, as a result of the policy that we have had in the Middle 
East, we have been perceived as being anti-Palestinian. This has not 
set well either. Since that time, of course, we haven't backed off one 
bit. We had the Persian Gulf war, and then we had 9/11.

We know that 9/11 changed everything. We had 15 individuals from 
Saudi Arabia, a few from Yemen and a few from Egypt, but, aha, this is 
an excuse that we have got to get the bad guys. So where are the bad 
guys? Well, Iraq, of course. Of course, they figured, well, we 
can't quite do that, let's go into Afghanistan. Of course, not one 
single Afghani did anything to us. They said, oh, no, the al Qaeda 
visited there.


But I just can't quite accept the fact that the individuals that were 
flying those airplanes got their training by going to these training 
camps in Afghanistan doing push-ups and being tough and strong. What 
did they do? Where was the planning? The planning was done in Spain and 
they were accepted there in legal bases. They were done in Germany; 
they were accepted there. As a matter of fact, they even came to this 
country with legal visas. And they were accepted by the countries.

And, no, no, we said, it's the Taliban; it's the people of 
Afghanistan, never questioning the fact that a few years back, back in 
1989 when the Soviets were wrecking the place, we were allied with the 
people who were friends of Osama bin Laden, and we were over there 
trying to support him. So he then was a freedom fighter.

And the hypocrisy of all this and the schizophrenia of it all, they 
were on again and off again. No wonder we get ourselves into these 
difficulties. And it doesn't seem to ever lead up.

The one assessment that was made after Vietnam, and I think you can 
apply it here, is how do we get in and why do we get bogged down? And 
two individuals that were talking about this, East and West, Vietnam 
and the United States, they sort of came to the conclusion that we, the 
Americans, overestimated the ominous power of our military, we could 
conquer anybody and everybody. And we underestimated the tenacity of 
people who are defending their homeland, sort of like we were defending 
our homeland in the Revolutionary War, and the invaders and the 
occupiers were the Red Coats. There's a big difference, and you can 
overcome all kinds of obstacles; but we have never seemed to have 
learned that. And unless we do, I don't think we can solve our 
problems.

Indeed, we have to realize that we are not the policemen of the 
world. We cannot nation-build. And Presidential candidates on both 
sides generally tell the people that's what they want, and the people 
say, keep our fingers crossed, hope it's true. But then, once again, 
our policies continue down the road, and we never seem to have the 
energy to back off of this.

I emphasize, once again, that I think we could keep our eye on the 
target, emphasize what we should be doing if we went to war a lot more 
cautiously, if we have an enemy that we have to fight in our national 
defense and then there is a declaration of war.