---
---

# HONORING LIEUTENANT COLONEL MICHAEL PAULK FOR 25 YEARS OF SERVICE IN  THE U.S. MARINE CORPS
## `8fcf7cd70eccc0b1780e438da5f43a55`
`Mr. GINGREY — 20 November 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a fellow Georgian, 
LTC Michael


Paulk. Lieutenant Colonel Paulk is retiring after more than 25 years of 
service in the United States Marine Corps. He was raised in Stone 
Mountain, Georgia, where he graduated from Tucker High School in 1982 
before attending the University of West Georgia.

Lieutenant Colonel Paulk has served in a variety of assignments 
throughout his distinguished career beginning at Parris Island, South 
Carolina, where he attended basic training in 1983. He then went to his 
military occupation school, MOS, at Marine Corps Air Ground Combat 
Center, Twentynine Palms, California, where he was one of the top 
candidates at the school, earning the field radio operator MOS.

Private First Class Paulk was then assigned to the 4th Forward Area 
Air Defense Battery, Detachment Alpha, Marietta, Georgia as a field 
radio operator with 2nd Squad, 1St Platoon, Alpha Company. In 1986, 
Corporal Paulk was selected to participate in the Platoon Leaders Class 
and attended Officer Candidate School in Quantico, Virginia. He 
graduated from the University of West Georgia in Carrollton, Georgia in 
April 1987, with a bachelor of arts degree in history, and then 
received a commission as a Marine Corps second lieutenant.

From April through November 1987, Lieutenant Colonel Paulk attended 
the Basic School, graduating in the top third of his class. Upon 
completion of The Basic School he attended Aviation Maintenance 
Officer's School in Pensacola, Florida.

From May 1988 through June 1999, Lieutenant Colonel Paulk served with 
Marine All Weather Attack Squadron 533, in Cherry Point, North 
Carolina, deploying to Norway, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, 
Guam, and Wake Island. He also served in Marine Aircraft Group 42, in 
Marietta, Georgia, deploying with Marine Observation Squadron 4 and 
Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 773 to a multitude of counter-
narcotic missions throughout the United States and the Caribbean. 
Lastly, during this time he also served in the 4th Marine Aircraft 
Wing, serving as the rotary wing class desk officer and as the 
executive officer for Headquarters Battalion, U.S. Marine Corps Forces 
Reserve in New Orleans, Louisiana.

In June 2000, Lieutenant Colonel Paulk graduated from the U.S. Naval 
War College with a master of arts, National Security and Strategic 
Studies, degree and transferred to U.S. Marine Corps Forces Atlantic in 
Norfolk, Virginia. He served in the Operations and Plans Division 
overseeing the deployment of marines to Central and South America, as 
well as to the Caribbean.

From April 2002 until May 2008, Lieutenant Colonel Paulk served on 
recruiting duty in Marietta, Georgia and Quantico, Virginia. During 
this tour he deployed to Fallujah, Iraq, participating in Operation Al 
Fajr and supporting Iraq's first free elections. He earned the Bronze 
Star Medal for meritorious achievement in connection with combat 
operations while serving as the plans officer and operations officer 
for the 4th Civil Affairs Group.

Lieutenant Colonel Paulk served as a congressional liaison officer 
with the Office of Legislative Affairs, Headquarters Marine Corps, 
Washington, DC, during his last 8 months of service. In his position, 
Lieutenant Colonel Paulk carried the Corps' message to these hallowed 
halls, providing Members of this body the infonnation necessary to 
determine how best to equip, maintain, and support the United States 
Marine Corps.

Lieutenant Colonel Paulk has made a lasting contribution to the 
capability of today's Marine Corps' and the future shape of tomorrow's 
Corps. His superior performance of duties highlights the culmination of 
more than 25 years of honorable and dedicated Marine Corps service. My 
home State of Georgia and our country are proud of Lieutenant Colonel 
Paulk's exemplary professional competence, sound judgment, and total 
dedication to duty. He has reflected great credit upon himself and has 
always upheld the highest traditions of the United States Marine Corps. 
I wish Michael, his wife, April, and their daughters, Mallory and 
Maggie, all the best in their future endeavors as they return to life 
together in Georgia.
