# None
## `8fd7e795652034996c28884bfaed4fd0`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I rise to discuss the Omnibus 
appropriations bill that is before us today. Although I am supportive 
of a number of important items in the bill, I have serious concerns and 
reservations about how this voluminous package was put together and how 
it has reached this point. As we are all aware, none of the 11 bills in 
this package have ever been considered on the floor of this chamber. I 
believe this is a travesty and entirely contrary to our democratic 
process. I, for one, believe that next year we must make it a priority 
to consider all of the appropriations bills in regular order so that 
all Members can participate in the process. We are appropriating nearly 
$933 billion through this bill and only a select few Members in both 
Chambers have participated in the allocation of those dollars.

Despite my deep concerns about the process of putting this bill 
together, I have chosen to support it because it is within the 
President's budget request, it provides bridge-funding to support our 
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it contains a number of other items 
that I support.

I am pleased that the bill contains funds to continue Marriage 
Development Accounts in the District of Columbia. We began this program 
in fiscal year 2006 as a way to stem the erosion of marriage in DC. 
Sadly, marriage is all but disappearing in low-income communities in 
this city and across the country because couples lose important 
benefits such as food stamps, low-income housing credits, Temporary 
Assistance to Needy Families, and Medicaid merely for taking a wedding 
vow. In addition, these couples often have to pay higher taxes when 
they choose to marry. For most low-income couples, the welfare system 
has made marriage a bad economic decision. MDAs are one way we are 
making marriage a good economic decision. With an MDA, a low-income 
couple can save for a house, for higher education, or to start a small 
business and we will match those funds 3-to-1 with two Federal dollars 
and one private matching dollar. In just its second year of operation, 
over 100 DC residents have opened MDAs and 7 have already bought houses 
with their matched savings.

I am also pleased that we were able to include language in this bill 
requiring the U.S. Mint to return the words ''In God We Trust'' to the 
face of the $1 Presidential coins and the $1 Sacagawea coins. ''In God 
We Trust'' is our national motto and since the beginning of our Nation, 
America's citizens have acknowledged how God is very much a part of the 
founding principles and traditions of our democracy. I would like to 
note that in 1861, Secretary of the Treasury Samuel P. Chase ordered 
that coins bear a motto expressing the American people's trust in God. 
The first coins with the phrase ''In God We Trust'' were minted in 
1864. In 1955, the phrase was required for all new coins, and in 1956 
Congress officially endorsed ''In God We Trust'' as the national motto. 
Therefore, I was troubled to learn that the words ''In God We Trust'' 
do not appear on the face of the new Presidential coins. These words 
are barely visible and almost hidden on the edge of the new coins. To 
rectify this situation, we have included language in this bill that 
will require the U.S. Mint to return our national motto to the front of 
the coin.

I would like to note that we have provided $80 million for the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission, an increase of $17 million over the 
fiscal year 2007 level. I believe that this increase is important and 
necessary because it will allow the CPSC to hire additional inspectors 
to ensure that toys and other consumer products entering our country 
are safe. We have all been deeply concerned over the flood of shoddy 
and dangerous products entering our ports. Most troubling is that


many of these products are designed for our smallest and most 
vulnerable consumers: everything from baby cribs and strollers to 
children's toys and baby teethers have been recalled just this past 
year. I believe these additional funds will help CPSC address this 
growing problem.

I am supportive of the $60 million available in this bill to support 
democracy in Iran. Although I am pleased that this money is in the 
bill, I would have hoped we could have come up with an additional 
amount for this important and essential work. I am also concerned about 
oversight of these funds. In my view, this money is a crucial part of 
our overall policy on Iran, and I will closely monitor how it is spent.

Finally, I would not be able to vote for this bill if it did not 
contain the necessary funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The amendment that Senator McConnell has offered today contains those 
important and necessary funds. We are making progress in the war in 
Iraq and we must continue to provide our brave servicemen and 
servicewomen all the armor and ammunition and support they need to 
continue to secure a peace in that region of the world.

I reiterate my deep concerns and consternation with how this omnibus 
bill was put together. To say that this behemoth bill was cobbled 
together in the dead of night among just a few Members is no 
exaggeration. Such an approach is undemocratic and dangerous. Although 
I will vote for the bill, I must insist that we abandon this 
undemocratic process and return to regular order when we take up next 
year's appropriations bills.