---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF CAPTAIN MARK GARNER
## `8fdb083f8d716eaf1520475e396e4798`
`Ms. FOXX — 8 July 2009`

---


Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the extraordinary 
sacrifice, patriotism, and heroism of Captain Mark Garner from Elkin, 
North Carolina. Captain Garner, an officer in the 82nd Airborne 
Division, fell in the line of duty in Afghanistan Monday when a 
roadside bomb exploded under the vehicle in which he and three others 
were riding.

Captain Garner was assigned to B Company, 1st Battalion, 4th Infantry 
Regiment, Hohenfels, Germany. Dedicated to unyielding service to 
others, he was among seven U.S. troops killed in what was described as 
one of the deadliest days for U.S. troops in Afghanistan since 2001.

Captain Garner was an outstanding leader throughout high school, 
college, and in the United States military. He graduated from Elkin 
High School in 1997, where he excelled in sports and won several 
football, basketball, and baseball awards.

In 2002, Captain Garner graduated from the United States Military 
Academy at West Point as a second lieutenant. He was then assigned to 
an infantry unit at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.

Captain Garner leaves behind his loving parents and his wife, 
Nickayla. His absence leaves a hole in the hearts of the Garner and 
Myers families, the tight-knit community of Elkin, North Carolina, and 
the 82nd Airborne community.

Captain Garner was described by his friends and family as having 
lived to serve and sacrifice for others. From a young age, he aspired 
to be a soldier. He will long be remembered as a man who knew the 
meaning of service, sacrifice, and the call of duty to his family and 
his country.

Madam Speaker, my thoughts and prayers are with Captain Garner's 
wife, parents, and extended family. May they feel God's comforting 
presence during this difficult time.

We pause to honor his memory and express our gratitude to his great 
bravery and profound sacrifice. Our Nation is a better place for his 
having been among us and is blessed to call him an honored son. We 
mourn his passing, and we pledge our dedication to the family he left 
behind.
