---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `8fdc278aa8e1589fb1f88a8e28e4a097`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Generals on the ground were consulted on this bill? Seventy percent 
of Americans support this bill, support immediate withdrawal of our 
troops?

This bill before us is nothing more than political hyperbole, 
partisan politics using our troops as cover, because the American 
people don't have this bill in front of them. We didn't have this bill 
before us until just a few hours ago.

Let me show you exactly what the Democratic leadership has scheduled 
for us to debate, and I use the term lightly. For an entire day, rather 
than do the hard work of our Congress that we need to do to have more 
serious discussions on Iraq, on this bill, on appropriations, it's six 
pages long, six pages long.

It was introduced yesterday, so I don't know what commanders on the 
field we consulted with. I would be interested in doing that, in 
finding that out. The first page is the title. The second page, it's a 
''sense of Congress,'' language, nonbinding. The third page says 
''reduce forces to limited presence.'' Who understands what that is? 
Certainly not the drafters of this bill. The fourth and the fifth page 
calls for a strategy.

Yet this Congress already has demanded a strategy from the President, 
and it is due in September, a report. That's what the Democrats say 
they have asked for. But yet they are not willing to wait for that 
report.

The last page is definitions. This is what we are debating today, 
Democratic politics using our troops as pawns. Commanders on the field 
who were consulted? Give me a break.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of our time.