---
---

# CONGRATULATIONS TO THE CITADEL
## `8ff099e97375fc6c990dc5cfa6620a4f`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 15 October 2009`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, The U.S. News and World 
Report, in their publication titled ''America's Best Colleges 2010'', 
recently named The Citadel as the No. 1 best value among master's 
degree-granting colleges in the South. This is a tremendous recognition 
for the cadets, students, faculty, and administration of this esteemed 
South Carolina institution. In addition to being the best value, The 
Citadel was also named the No. 2 best public institution that offers a 
master's degree in the South and the No. 5 among all master's degree-
granting colleges and universities in the South that offers a master's 
degree.



Born and raised in Charleston, I have been a longtime admirer and 
supporter of The Citadel. For 167 years, it has educated and built 
strong leaders in our military and civilian communities. It remains an 
important part of South Carolina's heritage of service. I know 
firsthand of its benefits with three brothers-in-law and two nephews 
who are graduates of The Citadel. I never cease to be amazed at the 
achievements of Citadel graduates, such as Brigadier General Larry 
Nicholson who I met in Helmand Province of Afghanistan where he is 
leading our courageous Marines.

I am grateful to have known so many graduates such as Congressman J. 
Gresham Barrett and Congressman Steve Buyer of this important 
institution and will continue to be a proud supporter. Under the 
leadership of its President, LTG John W. Rosa, The Citadel is a valued 
national institution.
