---
---

# HONORING ANGELA MARIE CERNICH OWENS OF INVERNESS, FLORIDA
## `8ff550c69bd122d2a1bb8417c629996b`
`Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida — 19 July 2007`

---


Ms. GINNY BROWN-WAITE of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Specialist Angela Marie Cernich Owens, a soldier from Inverness, 
Florida currently serving in Iraq.

Born in Omaha, Nebraska, Angela moved to Citrus County at a young 
age. She attended Floral City Elementary and Citrus High, eventually 
graduating from Withlacoochee Technical School. An acclaimed golfer on 
her high school team, Angela received many trophies for her prowess on 
the golf course.

Sworn into the military on September 10, 2001, Angela has seen 
firsthand the changes in the military since September 11. Originally


assigned to basic training in South Carolina, Angela was eventually 
sent to Ft. Sill, Oklahoma and Ft. Lewis, Washington before her 
deployment to Iraq in January 2005.

During her first tour in Iraq, Angela earned the Command Team Coin 
for Excellence for her role in missions outside Mosul. Disguised as a 
local Iraqi in the full length black dress and head cover, Angela 
worked side by side with her fellow soldiers to conduct the peace 
keeping missions so vital to stability in Iraq.

Upon her return from her first tour of duty, Angela was assigned to 
Ft. Lewis, where she was trained as a sniper. She also met her husband, 
James Russell Owens, and the two were married in September of 2006. 
Both Angela and James have since been reassigned to Iraq and are 
stationed at Camp TQ.

Madam Speaker, it is soldiers like Angela Marie Cernich Owens who 
volunteer to protect the freedoms that all americans hold dear to their 
hearts. While brave men and women like Angela serve in the name of 
freedom and liberty, her family, friends and loved ones should know 
that this Congress will never forget her sacrifice and commitment.
