---
---

# SUPPORTING AND ENCOURAGING GREATER SUPPORT FOR VETERANS DAY EACH YEAR
## `8ffc33154c3d91e06cc50b6ce967f507`
`Mr. BACA — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. BACA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 237.

I want to thank Representative Filner for his commitment to this 
resolution in support of our veterans. And I say ''the support of our 
veterans.'' As a veteran myself who served in both the 101st and 82nd 
Airborne Division, I am proud to stand with our brave men and women.

Today, there are over 23 million veterans living in the United 
States; 165,000 in Iraq and Afghanistan. In my district, we have over 
32,000 veterans. There are also many veterans who serve in Congress, 
and I want to thank those Members who have served this country. And I 
salute each and every one of the Members who have served our country.

To my fellow veterans, I commend you for your service. When our 
troops commit to serve our country, they make a promise to serve and to 
protect this country.

We also have a moral responsibility to protect the returning veterans 
and their families. Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan must 
receive the best treatment. Sadly, for the last few years, I don't 
believe that our government has held its end of the bargain. The 
conditions at Walter Reed show us that in many cases our veterans are 
not receiving the care they deserve. This resolution reminds us that 
Veterans Day is not just a day off from school or work. This is a 
special day of reflection to honor those who have defended our country.

I visited Israel a few years ago. There I learned how truly they 
respect and honor veterans in that country. Israel calls for 1 minute 
of silence across the whole country. The country's emergency siren goes 
off at 10 a.m., and all TV and radio stations are also interrupted and 
programs sounding the alert. Everyone then stops whatever they are 
doing, working, driving, anything else, and stands in silence for those 
heroes who have served their country. That's paying respect.

My resolution also encourages schools to educate our young people 
about the contributions of our veterans to this country because they 
ultimately have made the sacrifice for the freedoms that they have to 
be in school and to be all that they want to be.

This year, as Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I have 
worked closely with Hispanic veterans and the Medal of Honor veteran 
winners from World War II until today. The stories of courage and 
sacrifices I've heard from them were nothing short of amazing. They 
deserve to be recognized and thanked, as well as every veteran who has 
served our country.

I also believe a special thanks is necessary to the veterans and 
military families that are left behind. Too often we forget about the 
families and veterans who are left behind. They have sacrificed so much 
for their loved ones and for America, for America that we stand up 
with, America that we have always been with. You are the support system 
and the backbone for all of these veterans.

On November 11, on Veterans Day, do not forget those who are the true 
heroes of this country. Reflect on the true meaning of Veterans Day, 
and remember the sacrifices made by so many proud American sons and 
daughters that we will honor on that day.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. Veterans Day is 
about our heroes.