---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `90153f8bf70b65ecd57b314cb2357626`
`Mr. HUNTER — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I might 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, this is a well-motivated bill. I want to commend my 
colleagues on the Armed Services Committee for all the great work that 
they do, Democrat and Republican. Most of the time we're on common 
ground. In this case, I think that this bill does not accrue to the 
benefit of the troops. I think it hurts the troops.



I think that is a question every Member of the House has to ask 
themselves: Is this going to be good for the troops, or is it going to 
be bad for the troops?

I think it will be bad for the troops, for this reason: We are 
fighting a war in Iraq which requires innovation, flexibility and 
experience. This bill, which will put a straitjacket on our ability to 
deploy troops on the basis that their clock has not yet expired back in 
the United States before they go over, is going to have an incredibly 
detrimental affect on our ability to project a well-rounded, effective 
fighting team in the warfighting theater in Iraq.

Let me talk about that a little bit, Mr. Speaker.

You are going to have units which desperately require specialties. 
Some of the specialties, I would remind my friend, are IEDs, the 
ability to operate jammers, the ability perhaps to decontaminate if you 
come into contact with some of the chemical weapons stockpiles that 
were left by the old regime. Military effectiveness is built on dozens 
and dozens of specialities, all of which support the other.

The idea that you can't put this team together, that the Marines or 
the Army can't put their warfighting team together because they looked 
at the list of people who are most able to fill those roles, most able 
to move in and stand next to their fellow Marine, their fellow soldier, 
their fellow airman, the guy that is doing the mechanic work on that 
important helicopter that is going to be the transportation vehicle, 
the guy that is doing the repair work on that particular weapons 
system, those people are not going to be able to flow over into the 
theater because their clock hasn't moved appropriately on the one-to-
one ratio.

Now, we consulted the U.S. Marines on this provision. We didn't 
consult political people in the White House. We didn't consult people 
who had an opinion on whether or not we should be in Iraq. We consulted 
the people who have the job of putting together these packages of 
personnel which are required in the warfighting theater and 
transporting them to the theater.

Of course, the Deputy Commandant of the Marine Corps for Plans and 
Operations is Lieutenant General Richard Natonski. Here is his 
statement he gave to the committee. He said, ''In order to support OIF 
requirements during Fiscal Year 2008 and comply with the minimum period 
between deployments proposed by provisions like H.R. 3159, a one-to-one 
ratio, the Marine Corps would have to adjust force generation plans. 
These plan adjustments would include extending unit deployments.''

Somebody has to stay on the battlefield. The battlefield is not going 
to be empty. So if you are not going to allow new Marines to come in, 
the Marines that are there right now are going to have to stay there.

It is the same with the Army. These plan adjustments could include 
extending unit deployments, creating provisional units. That means you 
are going to have to put new units together because the old unit hasn't 
had its meter expire yet. And forcing units to execute missions as in-
lieu-of forces, meaning that units that don't have that specialty are 
going to have to become units that have that specialty. That means 
''quickie'' training and moving people immediately into the battlefield 
to fill a role that otherwise could be filled by people who have a deep 
specialty in that capability.

Mr. Speaker, he finishes with this statement that every Member of 
Congress should listen to very carefully. He said, each of these 
adjustments that will be required by Mrs. Tauscher's bill, among 
others, incurs higher risk than that associated with deploying the unit 
at a deployment-to-dwell time of seven to six.

I want to remind my colleagues, higher risk means higher risk of 
casualties. That is what happens when the guy that is supporting you on 
the battlefield doesn't have as much experience as you would like him 
to have, doesn't have that specialty, hasn't been there before, doesn't 
have that insight that is going to keep you alive.

Mr. Speaker, this is a well-meaning bill. But if you ask this 
question, does it help the troops or hurt the troops, this bill hurts 
the troops.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.