# IRAQ RESOLUTION
## `90239e073e4ff0133397e3d5bfbe92a7`
`Ms. COLLINS — 12 February 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am very pleased to join with the 
distinguished senior Senator from Virginia--a former chairman of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, an individual who has devoted his life 
to the support of our military--in offering, along with a number of our 
colleagues, this very important resolution as an amendment to the 
continuing resolution. There are many differing views in this body on 
the road ahead in Iraq, and those views are legitimate but they deserve 
to be debated. There is no more pressing issue facing this country than 
Iraq. The public is disappointed to see the Senate avoid the debate on 
the most important issue of our day. The current stalemate is 
unacceptable. It is unacceptable to the American people. Regardless of 
our views on the appropriate strategy for Iraq, we have an obligation, 
we have a duty as Senators to fully debate this issue and to go on 
record on what we believe to be the appropriate strategy, the road 
ahead in Iraq.

I am very disappointed that the procedural wrangling on both sides of 
the aisle prevented that kind of full and fair debate last week. I 
believed strongly that we should go ahead with that debate, and I am 
sorry that did not occur. I hope our leaders on both sides of the aisle 
will work together to come up with a fair approach to debate this most 
important issue.



Just this last weekend, the State of Maine lost another soldier in 
combat in Iraq. The American people deserve to know where each and 
every one of us stands on the President's strategy, on whether to cut 
off funding, on the important issues related to this very pressing 
issue. There are legitimate arguments on both sides. There are those 
who agree with my position that a surge of 21,500 troops would be a 
mistake. There are those who believe that the surge is the right course 
to follow. I respect the views of Senators on both sides of the aisle 
and, indeed, this is not a partisan issue. But surely--surely this is 
an issue that deserves our full debate in the best traditions of this 
historic body. Surely--surely our constituents deserve to know where we 
stand.

I think this is so important that nothing should prevent us from 
going to this debate prior to our recessing. I think we should make 
this so important that if it is not done, perhaps we should reconsider 
our plans for next week. I think we should proceed with this most 
important debate without further delay. There are a number of 
worthwhile resolutions that have been brought forward. Let the debate 
begin.

Finally, I want to add just a couple of comments to those made by the 
distinguished Senator from Virginia and the distinguished Senator from 
Nebraska, and that is about the importance of these resolutions. They 
are by no means unprecedented, as both of my colleagues have so 
articulately pointed out. They offer guidance to the administration. It 
remains my hope that if the Senate passes the resolution that I have 
helped to coauthor that the President will accept our invitation to 
take a second look at his plan. We urge him to explore all alternatives 
and to work with us on a bipartisan strategy to chart a new road ahead 
in Iraq.

As a result of my trip to Iraq in December, I concluded that we face 
a number of different challenges in Iraq and the strategy depends on 
where you are in Iraq. In Baghdad, the capital is engulfed in sectarian 
violence. Yes, Baghdad is in the midst of a civil war between the 
Shiites and the Sunnis. To insert more American soldiers in the midst 
of this sectarian struggle would, in my judgment, be a major mistake. 
Only the Iraqis can devise a solution to the sectarian strife that is 
gripping Baghdad, and I think if the Iraqis had taken the long overdue 
political steps, if they more fully integrated the Sunni minority into 
the power structures, if they had passed an oil revenue bill that more 
equitably distributed oil revenues, if they had held the long overdue 
provincial elections, we would not be in the crisis in which we are 
today.

Indeed, that is not just my opinion, that was the opinion of General 
Petraeus when I asked him that question during his nomination hearing 
before the Armed Services Committee.

By contrast to the sectarian strife that is plaguing Baghdad, the 
battle is very different in Anbar Province to the west. There the fight 
is with al-Qaida and with foreign jihadists, and there and only there 
did I hear an American commander ask for more troops--only in Anbar 
Province--and he did so in order to capitalize on a recent positive 
development in which some of the local Sunni tribal leaders are now 
backing the coalition forces against al-Qaida.

My conclusion is that we do need more troops in Anbar, but we should 
reallocate from troops already in the country. I personally would 
choose to take troops out of Baghdad and send them west, to Anbar 
Province, and put the Iraqis in charge, fully in charge of security in 
Baghdad. I fear that by inserting thousands of additional troops into 
the midst of the sectarian strife in Baghdad, ironically we will ease 
the pressure on the Iraqi leaders to take the long-overdue steps to 
quell the sectarian violence, for I am convinced that the sectarian 
violence in Baghdad requires a political, not a military, solution.


In Basra, the third stop on our trip, I heard a British commander, a 
British colonel, give an excellent presentation to us. He said that 
initially the British and American troops were welcomed in Iraq, but as 
time has gone on, what he called the consent line has declined and 
their presence has been less and less tolerated and more and more 
resented.

I think perhaps the only issue on which all Members of this body can 
agree is that our troops have served nobly and well in Iraq, and that 
we need a new strategy. We disagree on the road ahead, but that is what 
democracy and the traditions of the Senate are all about. We should not 
be afraid of this debate. We should debate this issue fully and openly 
and let our constituents and the administration know exactly where the 
Senate stands.