# ADDRESSING HIGH GAS PRICES
## `903f12c3ce39f8df0a3aa690683ff738`
`Mr. CASEY — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise to discuss two agreements under 
negotiation between the United States and Iraq that have grabbed 
headlines in recent days as more and more Iraqi politicians announce 
their strong opposition to these agreements. The two agreements will 
shape the presence of American military forces in Iraq long beyond the 
tenure of the current administration. Unfortunately, the 
administration, in my judgment, is handling these negotiations in the 
same manner that has characterized its entire approach to Iraq since 
2003. Its approach is this: unnecessary secrecy, a disdain for 
congressional input, and an arrogant insistence that its course of 
action--the administration's course of action--is the only reasonable 
option.

Let me talk about each of these agreements. The first agreement to 
which I am referring is a proposed Status of Forces Agreement, known by 
the acronym SOFA. The Status of Forces Agreement would define the 
authorities, privileges, and immunities of American troops on Iraqi 
soil and allow U.S. forces to remain in Iraq beyond December 31, when a 
U.N. Security Council mandate, authorizing the presence of coalition 
troops, is scheduled to expire. Administration officials insist the 
extension of the U.N. mandate, which has been repeatedly renewed on an 
annual basis, is no longer possible; the Iraqis seek to return to a 
normal status in the international system and no longer want to be the 
subject of a U.N. authorized military operation.

The second agreement involves a more ambiguous ''strategic 
framework,'' which would lay out the broad political, security, and 
economic ties between our two nations. While the administration walked 
back from previous statements indicating the United States is prepared 
to offer a binding security guarantee to Iraq's Government to come to 
its defense in the event of foreign aggression or internal turmoil, it 
is still prepared to agree to ''consult''--consult--with the Iraqi 
Government under such circumstances. While the promise to consult, in 
the event of aggression, has been extended by the United States to many 
nations around the world, and is known in diplomatic jargon as a 
''security arrangement,'' it still raises concern when the United 
States maintains a large-scale troop presence in a nation. Any promise 
to consult with a foreign government takes on much greater weight when 
more than 100,000 troops are stationed there.

The Congress and the American public first learned of these two 
proposed agreements when President Bush and Prime Minister Maliki 
signed a ''Declaration of Principles'' last November, outlining their 
shared intention to conclude negotiations by July 31. A week later--a 
week after July 31--joined by five other Senators, I sent a letter to 
President Bush expressing deep concern over the proposed security 
guarantees to the Iraqi Government and the insistence of the 
administration that it could conclude both these agreements without--
without--congressional input or approval. Since then, many Members of 
Congress, on both sides of the aisle, I might add, have expressed deep 
unease with the administration's approach. Some of the questions we 
have raised, including at a Senate Committee on Foreign Relations 
hearing in April, include the following: Here are a couple pertinent 
questions we should be asking and the administration should be 
answering.

First, why the sudden insistence on a termination of the U.N. 
Security Council mandate for the U.S. and other coalition troops in 
Iraq at the end of this year? Why not simply extend the mandate for 
another year and allow the next President to negotiate a bilateral 
accord with the Iraqis instead of a lameduck President?

Why would we accept a bilateral accord with the Iraqi Government that 
incorporates greater restrictions--greater restrictions--on U.S. 
troops, including limitations on the authority to conduct combat 
operations and detain prisoners of war than the current mandate? Why 
would we agree to that? I am a strong opponent of an open-ended U.S. 
combat presence in Iraq, but so long as American troops remain in Iraq, 
they should retain the discretion to conduct necessary operations to 
ensure their safety and security. American troops can never answer to a 
foreign government, especially one as dysfunctional as the Iraqi 
Government is now.

