# FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `904362d01cbf3216e0e07d526bc86df8`
`Mr. KAGEN — 10 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you for yielding. One of the nice things about being 
in the majority is we have an opportunity now to have oversight, to ask 
questions seeking the truth about where our hard-earned tax dollars are 
being spent.

I have always believed and I believe everyone in Wisconsin believes 
that your family values are reflected in how and where you spend your 
money. The values of this administration, of this President, will be 
reflected in how and where he is attempting to direct us to spend our 
hard-earned dollars.

We have heard from you, Congressman Hodes, the voice of the 
administrator from the new Iraq, the freely elected government of Iraq. 
I would like to share with you now some of the words of people from my 
district who have concerns about money and their health and where we 
are going.

Albert from Crivitz writes, ''Without a job that pays a fair wage, I 
won't have money to pay for health care, gas, a war, Social Security or 
anything else.''

Albert in Crivitz understands. He has to balance his checkbook every 
month and he can't spend money that he doesn't have.

Lloyd in Wisconsin, who I spoke with this evening before coming down 
to the floor, he is from Kaukauna, said, ''Do


something to help your senior citizens for health care and drug 
programs. Thank you.''

When I spoke with him this evening, he went beyond his postcard to me 
to explain that he has two daughters who are retarded who are dependent 
upon him. And even though he is trying to retire, he is a retired paper 
worker in the paper industry and his wife has diabetes, he is having a 
hard time making it. And without the role of government, what kind of 
future would he and his daughters have?

From Waupaca, Dianne writes to me, ''We know numerous people over 50 
who have lost their jobs so companies can cut health care and payroll 
costs, and cannot find any other work and no longer have health 
insurance.'' No health insurance for 4 years.

In speaking with Dianne's husband this evening, Ken, he explained 
that his son is shipping out on the 26th of this month to Iraq as a 
member of the Guard. He is a gunner on a Humvee. He is a college 
graduate, and he is making a sacrifice.

No one in this administration has asked the American people to 
sacrifice for this poor judgment of entering into the Iraqi civil war. 
But who is he really asking to pay the price? He is asking us to forgo 
health care for the poorest among us and for our Nation's children who 
are near poverty. That is a poor choice. It is poor judgment that got 
us into Iraq. But we have to stand up in this House, in this, the 
People's House, expressing citizens' points of view. It is their money, 
and that is who we represent.

From Appleton, Wisconsin, my hometown, Leroy and Lois: ''We are 
retired, over 80. We need drugs for high cholesterol, but the cost for 
this drug is extremely high. Also it would be great to have some 
alternative auto fuel.''

These people in Appleton really get it. And they are listening 
tonight. I called them to tune in on C-SPAN, because we are expressing 
their views here this evening.

From Fremont, Wisconsin, Larry writes, ''My wife and I spend over 
$900 a month for drugs now. When we hit the doughnut hole, that is when 
we really will pay.'' In speaking with him tonight, his wife is in the 
doughnut hole. That is over a $2,400 hole, and their copay is $600 for 
their medications.

We have some values that we have to reflect here in the People's 
House. Where are we going to spend the taxpayers' hard-earned dollars--
overseas, or here at home?



Bonnie from Biron, Wisconsin, writes, ''We need to start worrying 
about the people of U.S.A. before we worry about others in the world.''

Robert from Green Bay, ''Iraq, bringing them home. If taxpayers can't 
get the same health insurance as Congress, at least get drug costs down 
to the VA amounts.''

My friend, people in Wisconsin understand the deal they are being 
handed. My honorable friend, Congressman Hodes, you point to a chart 
that shows $330 million a day being spent in Iraq. I can build 10 brand 
new hospitals in Wisconsin with that amount of money. Each and every 
day, 10 hospitals in your State, Texas, California, Missouri, 
everywhere in these United States and that money is gone and it is not 
coming back.