# None
## `9048bacbcc5745defa60b4ef02993b88`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 23 May 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. I think you are right. I think also, as the 
summer begins and then wears on and we have an opportunity in the 
summertime to go home and spend some time in our districts and interact 
with our constituents, that the issues that pile up, at we're going to 
have a difficult time dealing with, because we are still mired in this 
hopeless war in Iraq, are going to continue to fray the patience of the 
American people, and I think our friends on the other side of the aisle 
will hear from their constituents.

I keep wanting to move a little bit and talk about gas prices, and 
I'm chomping at the bit to do that because you've heard me talk about 
this before. I'm one of those minivan moms. I drive my kids around in 
my minivan to soccer games and to school. And last summer when we were 
frustrated with the rise in gas prices, I remember exploding on the 
floor here talking about how it cost over $55 to fill up my gas tank. 
And then, of course, conveniently, right before the election, the 
prices came down again. I'm sure it had nothing to do with the fact 
that an election was imminent, and I'm sure the oil industry didn't do 
anything deliberate to ensure that that would happen.

But amazingly it is now May and those gas prices have not just crept 
but leapt back up, and I want to just share with you the timeline that 
has existed since this administration took over in the executive 
branch.

We are now paying more than double for gas than when President Bush 
first took office. This chart will illustrate that the average price 
per gallon on January 22, 2001, at the beginning of the Bush 
administration, was $1.47, and then as of May 21, 2007, just a couple 
days ago, the average price per gallon today is $3.22.

Now, what that means is that amounts to real money. When you're 
talking about it costing 20 or so dollars to fill up your tank or $25 
to fill up your tank, that's a manageable amount of money.



But when you get to $50, $50, Mr. Murphy, is an amount that I think 
about. I mean, when I am faced with paying a bill that's $50, that's 
real money to me. To me, that gives me pause. I have to make a 
decision, normally, about other things unrelated to things that I 
absolutely have to have like gas, about whether or not I am going to 
actually spend $50. Do I have the money? What else will I not be able 
to buy if I spend $50 on this item?

Gas is not like that. Gas is something that's not optional. You have 
to drive your kids to school. You have to make sure you can get your 
car to the grocery store. If you don't go to the grocery store because 
you don't have gas, your family doesn't eat. If your kid is sick and 
you can't fill the gas tank, then you can't take them to the doctor, 
and they get sicker. How are you going to get them to the emergency 
room if they get so sick that you need that kind of health care? Those 
are real problems that Americans face when gas prices reach that point.

What we are doing in the Democratic Caucus and as we continue to 
fight to move this country in a new direction is we are working on an 
energy package that we will bring to the floor by July 4, an energy 
independence package that will ensure that we can crack down on price 
gouging, like the legislation that we passed off this floor yesterday, 
that we can really start to respond to the oil cartel and make sure 
that they are pursued for the antitrust violations that they engage in, 
and that we really invest in alternative energy.

The President's remarks during the State of the Union last year were 
just words. When he referenced his desire to see America end our 
addiction to foreign oil, nice words, but no action to speak of. 
Nothing that I can see in any policy is reflective of the words that we 
heard in this Chamber during that State of the Union. We, on the other 
hand, are going to make a difference.

Mr. Murphy.