---
---

# None
## `90709ee19fa4be2a7bd9f5f0384abe94`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
resolution, and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to recognize the chief sponsor and 
author of this important legislation, my good friend, the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Price) and I also want to thank the chairman 
of our Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Lantos, and our ranking member, 
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, for their support and leadership in 
bringing this legislation to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, last week the United States was reminded once again that 
amongst the weekly sacrifices of Americans in Iraq, the continuing 
concern of Iran and the recent developments in Pakistan, there still 
exists in the geographic center of the Middle East and South Asia a 
country that faces a growing insurgency that directly threatens its 
stability and the national security and interests of the United States 
and its allies.

On November 6, a suicide bomber targeted a delegation of members of 
the Afghanistan National Assembly, or the Wolesi Jirga, killing at 
least 50 Afghans, including school children, ordinary citizens and half 
a dozen elected members. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to strongly condemn 
this attack and to echo again our unified commitment to the 
stabilization and development of Afghanistan.

This House shares a special bond with the Wolesi Jirga, which 
participates in a partnership in our House Democracy Assistance 
Commission, and it is indeed a tragedy to see our fellow legislators or 
parliamentarians be murdered in such a way.

A few months ago, this House passed on an overwhelming and bipartisan 
basis the Afghanistan Freedom Support and Security Act of 2007. This 
act reaffirmed our long-term commitment to the security and development 
of Afghanistan by reauthorizing a comprehensive package of assistance 
to a country in dire need of the international community's support.

Mr. Speaker, if there is any lesson to be taken from the tragic 
events like these, it is that now is the time to act. Poppy cultivation 
is up multifold, suicide attacks have increased dramatically in the 
past year, and Afghanistan still suffers as being one of the poorest 
countries in the world. In that regard, I urge my colleagues in the 
Senate, the other body, to take up an Afghanistan reauthorization bill 
as early as possible so that we may help that country drive out the 
forces of extremism and intolerance and bring the forces of moderation 
and progress in.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.