---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9087f987469a969e1e8eb32c802edc7e`
`Mrs. TAUSCHER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mrs. TAUSCHER. Madam Speaker, at this time I yield myself as much 
time as I may consume.

I was interested in my colleague, the last speaker's questions, the 
question about why do we have a nonbinding resolution and does it have 
any significance. I should say, no one should minimize the significance 
of this resolution. Passage by a bipartisan majority of the House of 
Representatives of this resolution opposing the President's plan to 
escalate the war in Iraq would be a major turning point in the war 
debate.

Despite the fact that it is nonbinding, passage would have enormous 
significance. This bipartisan resolution is serving as the basis for 
the first real debate on the President's flawed Iraq war policy since 
the war began nearly 4 years ago. Last November, the voters sent 
President Bush a loud and unmistakable message about Iraq, but the 
President didn't listen.

As his announcement of an escalation of the war showed, passage of 
this bipartisan resolution is a second


chance for the President to hear a strong, clear message that cannot be 
ignored. Passage of this bipartisan resolution will send another clear 
message: No more blank checks for the President on Iraq.

In addition, passage of a nonbinding resolution opposing the 
President's escalation plan is only the first step in the Congress, 
demanding a changing of course in Iraq. When this resolution containing 
fewer than 100 words passes, we will take the country in a new 
direction in Iraq. A vote of disapproval will set the stage for 
additional legislation, which will be coming to the House floor.

Furthermore, what is surprising, as I see my colleagues from the 
other side trot forward one after another, I have to remind them that 
in their 12 years in the majority, House Republicans passed hundreds, 
hundreds of nonbinding resolutions, including in very similar 
situations.

For example, on October 30, 1995, the House Republican leadership 
brought to the floor and passed H. Res. 247, a nonbinding resolution 
repudiating President Clinton's pledge to deploy up to 20,000 troops to 
Bosnia as part of a peacekeeping force. I will remind my colleagues, 
Kosovo is about to be declared independent because the United States 
and NATO countries interceded and stopped the genocide there. That is a 
perfect example of wrongheaded policy that Democrats were able to put 
forward.

Madam Speaker, at this time, I am happy to yield 5 minutes to my 
friend and colleague, the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Langevin).

(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)