---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
## `909abd8db94862f3a914983c45519ad8`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 14 March 2008`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3773. This 
bill reestablishes the role of the Court into foreign surveillance if 
and when a U.S. person becomes a target of such surveillance. H.R. 3773 
also authorizes the FISA court to review the ''minimization'' 
procedures used by intelligence agencies regarding the use of material 
that has been inadvertently intercepted. Moreover, this bill authorizes 
the FISA court to also review the ''targeting'' procedures that involve 
U.S. persons. Finally, the bill creates a commission to review the 
President's previous warrantless surveillance program and to report to 
Congress. It is important to note that H.R. 3773 contains no 
retroactive immunity for the telephone companies for their past 
accommodation to intercept the communications of U.S. persons without a 
court order.

After the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, our security 
agencies worked to improve their intelligence operations to ensure that 
such a plot could never again be executed on U.S. soil. However, this 
Administration, rather than assessing the need to make adjustments to 
surveillance authorities, embarked upon an unauthorized secret program 
authorized by nothing more than Executive fiat and clearly outside of 
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. The telecommunication 
industry was directed to comply with demands of the Administration with 
or without the requisite authority. Some telecommunications companies 
complied some did not.

Despite repeated requests from Democratic Members of Congress for the 
Administration to assess the limitations of the existing FISA law and 
to request necessary changes, the Administration refused to do so. Only 
after James Risen in 2006 exposed the fact that the Administration had 
been engaged in a massive domestic spying operation did the 
Administration begin to address the need to reconcile the program with 
some semblance of statutory authority. To that end, last summer the 
Administration identified a change in technology that warranted a 
change to the law. The change in the telecommunications industry has 
placed nodes and other technological backbones on U.S. soil regardless 
of the flow of information. Consequently, many foreign-to-foreign 
communications pass through the U.S. without involving U.S. persons. 
This technological ''touch down'' under existing law would require a 
court order and needed to be changed.

From that request for a technical change, the Administration, with 
the assistance of the Republicans in Congress, launched an initiative 
to virtually remove court orders for the surveillance of American 
persons. Moreover, the Administration launched an additional initiative 
to provide blanket retroactive immunity for all the phone companies and 
ISPs that intercepted communications in the absence of a legal 
authorization. This immunity was demanded without the disclosure of the 
acts that would be subject to such immunization. Currently, there are 
almost 40 lawsuits pending that have challenged the legality of the 
President's unauthorized surveillance program.

All of these past cynical efforts to engage in an illicit 
surveillance program have now transformed into a campaign to engage in 
a widespread cover-up of past illegalities. The Republicans and the 
President cloak their surreptitious activity in a cloak of national 
security. However, the American people know better. We all want to stop 
terrorism. We all agree that foreign-to-foreign communications should 
be intercepted without needing a court order. We all agree that merely 
because such a communication is transported through a device that sits 
on U.S. soil, it should not impose any impediment to the surveillance 
of these communications. Where we disagree is in the need to carry on 
an illegal program, to defy any accountability and then come to 
Congress to seek legislation that is purely designed to conceal 
wrongdoing.

The bill before us today accomplishes the following:

Provides for surveillance of terrorist and other targets overseas who 
may be communicating with Americans.

Requires the FISA court to approve targeting and minimization 
procedures--to ensure that Americans are not targeted and that their 
inadvertently intercepted communications are not disseminated. These 
procedures must be approved prior to surveillance beginning--except in 
an emergency, in which case the government may begin surveillance 
immediately, and the procedures must be approved by the court within 30 
days. (This may be extended if the court determines it needs more time 
to decide the matter.)



Provides prospective liability protection for telecommunications 
companies that provide lawful assistance to the government.

Requires a court order based on probable cause to conduct 
surveillance targeted at Americans, whether inside the United States or 
abroad.

Requires an Inspector General report on the President's warrantless 
surveillance program.

Prohibits ''reverse targeting'' of Americans.

Explicitly establishes FISA Exclusivity--that FISA is the exclusive 
way to conduct foreign intelligence surveillance inside the U.S. Any 
other means requires an express statutory authorization.

Sunsets these authorities on December 31, 2009 (same as the PATRIOT 
Act sunset).

Moreover, this bill is as important for what it does not contain, 
i.e. retroactive immunity. This bill does provide telecom companies a 
way to present their defenses in secure proceedings in district court 
without the Administration using ''state secrets'' to block those 
defenses. Finally, this bill also establishes a bipartisan, National 
Commission--with subpoena power--to investigate and report to the 
American people on the Administration's warrantless surveillance 
activities, and to recommend procedures and protections for the future.

We all want to prevent the acts of terrorism. However, some of us 
believe that we can protect our Nation without throwing away all of the 
rules that have been designed to protect the Constitutional rights of 
Americans. The scare tactics that have been used by this Administration 
to further cloak their illegal programs are reprehensible. What is more 
is that these tactics are not even marginally credible.

The President's national security programs by and large have been a 
failure, his misadventure into Iraq on a quest for nonexistent weapons 
of mass destruction have led us on a path of a substantial loss of 
life, resources and moral standing in the world. Moreover, it has 
diverted our attention from those who did attack us on 9/11, Al-Qaeda 
and its Taliban allies who are regrouping and strengthening, according 
to declassified U.S. intelligence estimates, along the Afghanistan-
Pakistan border. In addition, the President's authorization to use 
torture on U.S. soil, as well as outsourcing it to foreign countries, 
by way of rendition, has compromised the security of our troops and 
diplomatic corps around the world. These practices have done much more 
to compromise our national security than to protect it. For these 
reasons, the President is not in a position to invoke national security 
on any grounds and certainly not to justify a warrantless domestic 
spying program and retroactive immunity for those who were complicit in 
this activity.