# None
## `909ccae9b4fef2cd61499ca50b6f32c1`
`Mr. CARDIN — 22 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARDIN. I want to thank Senators Levin and McCain for their help 
in allowing me to bring forward this amendment. This amendment is an 
important amendment which deals with the increasing numbers of suicides 
and attempted suicides by the young men and women serving in the U.S. 
military.

We have not only seen each month an increased number of suicides and 
attempted suicides, but recently we saw


the killing of five of our servicemembers when a fellow soldier 
allegedly opened fire inside a mental health clinic at Camp Liberty in 
Iraq.

The purpose of this amendment is for the Department of Defense to 
give us information on the type of medications that are being 
prescribed so we can get a better handle on whether there is more that 
we can do in order to protect our young men and women who are serving 
our Nation.

Yesterday, we did something to help in approving the Lieberman 
amendment. The Lieberman amendment increased our force levels, our 
authorized force levels. One of the suspected reasons suicides and 
attempted suicides are increasing is the number of deployments, the 
length of deployments, and the fact that we do not have enough 
personnel in order to do the normal military responsibilities so that 
we have to continue to call up again our young people for renewed 
deployments. That will certainly help.

This Congress has passed significant increases in funds for mental 
health services for our service personnel. That will clearly help. But 
one thing we should all be concerned about is that there are more and 
more of our soldiers who are using prescription antidepressant drugs, 
SSRIs, and we are not clear as to whether they are under appropriate 
medical supervision. I say that because these SSRIs take several weeks 
before they reach their full potential as far as blocking depression or 
dealing with the causes of depression. During that period of time, 
particularly if they are in the age group of 18 to 24--many are in that 
age group--they are susceptible to increased thoughts of suicide.

Many of our service people are changing from location to location. 
They may very well be in the theater of battle. They may not be able to 
get the proper type of supervision. So we are concerned about whether 
the use of these drugs is being appropriately administered, but we do 
not have the facts; we do not have the information. We need to get that 
information.

There have been surveys which have shown that as many as 12 percent 
of those who are serving in Iraq and 17 percent of those who are 
serving in Afghanistan are using some form of prescribed antidepressant 
or sleeping pills in order to deal with their needs. That would equal 
20,000 of our service personnel using prescription medicines or 
antidepressants or sleep medicines. We need to get the information.

My amendment is simple. My amendment says starting in June of 2010 
and through 2015, the Department of Defense will make available to 
Congress the information on the number of personnel receiving these 
antidepressant drugs. It is done in a generic sense; therefore, there 
is no individual information about any service personnel. We protect 
their individual privacy as we have under HIPAA. This is absolutely 
protected. There is no stigma attached at all to this survey.

I think we have tried to deal with the legitimate concerns that have 
been raised. I hope my colleagues would agree that this is an important 
matter that should be included in our DOD authorization. I talked about 
it yesterday. I am glad now that I had the opportunity to, in fact, 
offer this amendment.

With that, if there is no one interested in speaking in opposition, I 
am prepared to yield back my time.