---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 21, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `90a843fa347318b0c7d8ba993e2670da`
`Mr. CONYERS — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, today is a historic day. After years of 
rising deficits and draconian Republican budgets, the vote on the 
Budget Conference Report finally puts us on the right course. The 
Democratic budget will take America in a new direction by funding 
national priorities such as health care services, educational programs, 
and veterans services while providing middle class tax assistance. The 
Democratic budget rejects the Administration's attempts to cut funding 
to many social programs that support American children and families 
such as State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP), Pell 
grants, Medicare, and Medicaid. This forward looking budget will help 
all Americans progress towards social and economic security.

The Democratic budget will also provide tax relief for middle-income 
workers and will extend popular tax credits such as the child tax 
credit, marriage penalty relief, and more deductions for state and 
local sales taxes.

After our troops have defended our great country, we need to give our 
servicemen and veterans the best possible health care. The budget 
provides sufficient funds to treat traumatic injuries and improve 
health care facilities for veterans, as well as to treat the more than 
twenty-six thousand service members who have been wounded in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Funding measures to veterans healthcare is a well deserved 
and necessary expense providing $3.6 billion above the President's 
proposal.

Mr. Speaker, many Americans have economic concerns, and are seeking 
leadership from us, the people's House, the United States Congress. 
After six years of misplaced priorities, the Democratic budget 
resolution seeks to provide services and support that are essential to 
the well-being of the American people; millions who are hard working 
tax paying citizens that deserve some well justified and reasonable 
assistance. This legislation is clearly the people's budget.