---
---

# OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN GOVERNMENT
## `90b359b89870ab7f69531556e4b07cd6`
`Mr. KAGEN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Mr. Speaker, thank you and I thank as well Tim for being 
not just a classmate in this great class of 2006 but also for serving 
the country and speaking out so eloquently and forcefully. You do not 
have to work out later like I do. You just had your workout.

But you bring up something that is terribly important. These are not 
just words or phrases. The boards are accountability, responsibility. 
This is something that you know from living your life as you have that 
we must do not just here in Congress but in our everyday lives as 
citizens.

I am sure you would much rather be home teaching and serving your 
country as you were, but you were called to a higher duty. You were 
called to come here, and it was meant to happen.

I would like to mention a few things about values. I believe that the 
President has put forward a budget that is a reflection of his values 
and his party's values. Where you spend your money is a reflection of 
your values, and the President sought to cut $3.8 billion from veterans 
health care and veterans benefits. The President and this 
administration was asking our veterans who have already earned their 
benefits to pay for them again. Why pay for something you have already 
earned? This is something that I consider to be disrespectful to those 
who have served in harm's way.

We will be talking about Iraq in several days and several weeks here 
on floor. We will be talking about supporting our troops, not just 
before they go in with adequate training and preparation and all the 
armament they need, not just during the combat itself, but after they 
come home, they must receive the care that they deserve in a prompt and 
meaningful fashion.

I served our veterans for a number of years in VA hospitals in 
Wisconsin and Illinois, and I can tell you the VA hospitals are 
superior, much better today than they were in the 1970s and 1980s and 
early 1990s when I was working there. They are much better than what we 
saw in Walter Reed, much better, but what happened at Walter Reed was 
this infection, if you will, this malfeasance, this bad idea, that 
government cannot help people. It is called privatization.

We should not privatize the health care of our veterans unless you 
are going to offer every veteran who served in harm's way with a card 
and say, here you go, soldier, you served in harm's way, you covered 
our back, now we have got yours; go to any doctor, any pharmacy, any 
hospital of your choice, we have got you covered.

Well, we are not ready to do that yet, are we? This administration 
has to come to understand there is a better way. Our class of 2006 
represents America's hope, hope for a positive change and new 
direction, not just in veterans health care but in health care for 
every citizen in this country. I believe that is what we have to offer.