# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `90b63da0a3f7f5461ec98b3b59ffb1a8`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it seems like not that long ago, but it was 
a year or so ago, we heard repeatedly: We're losing in Iraq. We're 
losing in Iraq. We've got to have a policy change. We're losing in 
Iraq. We've got to have a policy change. And we got a policy change.

It's kind of refreshing to hear so many say we're winning, and a 
little bit surprising to hear we're winning, so we need a policy 
change. We're winning, so we need a policy change? We know if we pull 
out too quickly, we don't leave a stable area.

Hearing comments earlier about somebody won't listen to anyone else; 
they get no input. I thought they were talking about the Democratic 
majority. Just today on FISA, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act, I'm told at 1:30 that we've got to have amendments in by 4 o'clock 
on a bill that we weren't even allowed to see. You want input? Let's 
start it right here on the floor.

I heard comments about Vietnam mistakes. The biggest mistake that 
history teaches us about Vietnam was that it was micromanaged from 
Washington. If you want documentation, go to Sam Johnson's book. After 
the carpet bombing finally took place and we went after and took it to 
them, the bombing stopped, we gave away the farm at Paris, and as the 
prisoners left the Hanoi Hilton, one of the leaders said, ''You know, 
you Americans are so foolish. If you'd have kept it up another week, we 
would have had to unconditionally surrender.'' But we were micromanaged 
from Washington.

We show the greatest reverence for those who have given their last 
full measure of devotion not by pulling out before we leave a stable 
area, but by seeing that we finish the job and leave a stable area so 
they will not have died in vain.

I leave with a comment of Travis Buford's mother as we stood there by 
his casket in Nacogdoches, Texas at the funeral home earlier this year. 
I said to his mother as we stood near his coffin, ''Is there anything I 
can do?'' She gritted her teeth and she said, ''Go back and tell the 
Congress to shut up and let the military finish their job.''