---
---

# HONORING THE 81ST BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM OF THE WASHINGTON ARMY NATIONAL  GUARD
## `90c2fcde7afa846cf120ec4e78a7444f`
`Mr. BAIRD — 14 October 2009`

---


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution 
and, most importantly, in strong support of the men and women of the 
81st Brigade and of our entire National Guard, not only in Washington 
State but across the Nation.

These brave men and women have served our country multiple times, as 
my colleagues have said, not just in times of war but in times of 
peace. We have had catastrophic flooding in my district a number of 
times, and the National Guard has always been there to respond to that 
call. It has been my great privilege to join our National Guard during 
their training in Yakima, during deployment ceremonies here Stateside, 
at Camp McCoy, then again in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and back home.

I will tell you, as we all know, they make us proud every single day. 
They are truly the finest that America has to offer, and it is their 
example of courage, professionalism, integrity, and compassion more 
than anything else, in addition to their combat and civilian skills, 
which help them successfully complete their mission at home.

I want to particularly congratulate General Timothy Lowenberg, who 
has been an outstanding leader of the Guard, again during both war and 
peacetime; Colonel Sabatini, whom I met with this last week on a 
homecoming visit with the troops; and Daniel Kern, who served in 
Afghanistan while many of the other Guardsmen were in Iraq.

Particularly, I want to thank the families. As Congressman Smith 
mentioned, the families serve as well. While their loved ones are 
overseas and are in harm's way, it is the families back home--the moms 
and dads, the brothers and sisters, and the children--who keep the home 
fires burning, and we must not forget them.

In knowing the fact that our unit is back home, we must keep in our 
hearts all those who are still deployed and who have been deployed.

I also want to mention the employers. Employer support of the Guard 
and Reserves is an incredibly important organization. They make sure 
that, when our men and women are deployed overseas, they have a chance 
to come home and resume their employment. Also, there are the educators 
who are helping people. There are our community colleges and 
universities and our vocational and technical education schools, which 
are helping retrain our soldiers when they come home.

Most importantly, I think it's essential that we acknowledge that 
Iraq is a better place because of the service of these men and women. 
Afghanistan is a better place. Our country is a better place, and we 
are grateful, and we cannot express in words our profound respect and 
gratitude.

I thank the gentleman for introducing the resolution.