---
---

# THE ECONOMIC SITUATION WE NOW FACE
## `90cd33a927edb5dd1f9ab5f6cacd4281`
`Mr. AKIN — 31 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I come here this evening to the floor to talk 
about a subject that is arresting the attention of Americans 
everywhere. It arrests their attention because it very much involves 
their futures, their future hopes, and the hopes of their children and 
grandchildren: that is, the economics and the economic situation that 
we now face.

Over the past, we have, over the past 6 and 7 years, heard repeatedly 
in our media the tremendous cost, particularly of the war in Iraq. We 
were told every day not only of people that were dying there but also 
of how it's just draining and siphoning money from the American 
economy.

And so, we come today in a curious situation. If you were to add all 
of the money that was spent in Iraq in the war there, add it all up for 
6 years, and then take the money that was spent in the war in 
Afghanistan, add it up for 7 years, and you put those two sums of money 
together, you would come up with less money than this U.S. Congress 
spent in the first 5 weeks that we


were in session when we passed the supposedly stimulus bill.

That, perhaps, casts a certain amount of light and helps to put in 
perspective what $840 billion in taxes that we actually don't have, but 
$840 billion dollars in spending that we approved here on this House 
floor.



What has happened since that time is we have spent other money, and 
there have been other large chunks of change, and I think it gets a 
little bit confusing in people's minds exactly how much is the Congress 
spending.

And so I have here immediately to my left a chart that talks a little 
bit about some of the money that we have spent in the past, and we do 
this on the eve of the fact that we have the new budget coming up which 
will be discussed and debated tomorrow. That budget is a whopper of a 
budget, but first, let's put it into context.

First of all, in the fall of last year, as Wall Street was becoming 
weaker and as there were demands for money to bail out Wall Street, the 
Congress approved $700 billion for the Wall Street bailout. The first 
$350 billion were spent last year, with an additional $350 billion this 
year.

Theoretically, this money was supposedly offered with transparency, 
so we could know what it was going to be used for and how we were 
getting something good from it. However, in spite of the fact that we 
spent the first $350 billion, we saw the stock market sliding and 
sliding. Then we spent the second $350 billion, and people continued to 
ask whether this money was really an effective tool.

As we asked many questions, even last fall on this subject, what we 
found was that particularly some people that worked on the savings and 
loan crisis some more than 10 years ago said that there was a way to 
help deal with our financial crisis, and particularly the toxic 
mortgage and bad loans that had been made, there was a way to deal with 
that without spending a lot of money. In fact, during the savings and 
loan crisis, we did not spend any of this kind of money, even though 
the situation was not dissimilar. That involved things like mark-to-
market and other accounting kinds of principles that could have been 
followed rather than going into the American taxpayers' pocket for $700 
billion.

Well, this year we spent $350 billion of that. Moving forward to this 
economic stimulus--I call it the porkulus bill--we spent another $787 
billion. Let's put that into perspective. In an area that I work, which 
is on the sea force committee, sea power committee, and one of the big 
ticket items that we deal with are aircraft carriers. People that know 
something about the Navy know that aircraft carriers are expensive, and 
we protect them by putting other ships around them. We only have 11 of 
them currently in service, and they average about $3 billion 
historically. That's what we paid for them.

And so if you were to divide the $3 billion into this $787 billion, 
what you'd find out is that you have got, you know, over 200 aircraft 
carriers. Picture 200 aircraft carriers tied end-to-end. That's a whole 
lot of money that we're spending that we don't have. Or if you want to 
put it another way, just the interest and the debt service on this 
money that we don't have that we're spending would be enough to buy 
nine new aircraft carriers every single year.

And what is there in this economic stimulus package that's so 
important? Well, as it turns out, it isn't even the good old Keynesian, 
the good old FDR, ''government spend its way out of trouble'' kind of 
package. It doesn't have those kinds of things in it. You'd think it 
would have in there hard manufacturing kinds of jobs, building ships, 
pouring concrete to make hydroelectric plants or nuclear power plants. 
You would think it might have a lot of money for roads, something for 
small businesses to get them going. It turns out it's not. It turns out 
what it is, it's a whole lot of spending on items that are just 
budgetary items of the Federal Government. It's just a whole lot of 
spending on social programs.

It does include some money to protect an endangered mouse in Speaker 
Pelosi's district. It contains things about education for HIV. It has 
some money for ACORN and things like that. These are regular old social 
government programs, but nothing that's really stimulative 
particularly.

And so this tremendous amount of money added to the debt is something 
that has very much captured people's attention, but we haven't stopped 
there unfortunately. We have seen no sign in the economy or in the 
stock market that this money is doing any particular good. In fact, all 
of the evidence economically would suggest that it won't. In fact, when 
you take a good look at the people that came up with this whole idea of 
stimulating the economy by government spending money, it doesn't even 
make much common sense.

Think about your average American family. Hey, we've got hard trouble 
with the budget this year, what are we going to do? Oh, let's go buy a 
brand new car and spend a whole lot of money. Nobody's that dumb in our 
country except for the Federal Government, and of course, we want to 
spend a lot of money. There isn't any economic justification. In fact, 
Henry Morgenthau, who was the Secretary of the Treasury under FDR, 
after they did this lovely theory of spending tons and tons of money--
and this is all through the 1930s and 1939--Secretary Morgenthau comes 
before the House Ways and Means Committee. He said, We have tried 
spending a whole lot of money and it doesn't work. He's pretty 
straightforward. It doesn't work. Our unemployment is as bad as it's 
ever been, and we have a tremendous amount of debt to boot.

So, so much for little Lord Keynes' theory. It was tried by the 
Japanese back in the 1990s, and the Japanese economy was sick because 
they just kept spending more and more government money, and it didn't 
help their economy at all.

So, so much for the theory of a whole lot of government spending is 
going to make the economy go well. Actually, considering the number of 
trillion dollars in debt, if the government spending was what made 
things went well, why we would all be millionaires ourselves if that 
theory worked. Of course, it doesn't work, and this of course, does not 
work.

Then we have the appropriations for 2009 which was another $410 
billion, and you start putting this together, and it starts to add up 
to real money. And now we have the new budget that has been proposed, a 
$3.6 trillion budget, and that includes some different, interesting 
items.

One that I think is of significance, the President promised us while 
he was in this very Chamber, he promised us that if you were making 
under $250,000 you didn't need to worry about taxes because he wasn't 
going to raise your taxes any. I thought, I'm glad because I don't make 
$250,000 a year, so I don't need to worry about tax increases.

Well, you better hang on to your wallet in Washington, D.C., because 
what is this cap-and-tax? This is a tax on electricity and heating 
fuel, propane, natural gas, things like that. And what's that going to 
mean? Well, some economists took a look at what that was going to cost, 
and this is a very credible organization. I believe it was MIT. I 
forget which university it was. Their estimate was $3,100 for every 
household in America. So, so much for the $250,000. Sure, we're going 
to tax those guys that own small businesses, but we're going to tax 
every household in America on an average of $3,100 every year.

I see a good friend of mine from Indiana, a very respected statesman 
on this floor, and I would yield to my good friend, Congressman Burton.
