---
---

# TRIBUTE TO MUNSON'S CHOCOLATES
## `90d192e5be7bd420ab69c4e1ce4dae45`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 7 January 2009`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Bob Munson and the 
employees of Munson's Chocolates which is headquartered in Bolton, 
Connecticut.

During the recent holiday season, I had the privilege of visiting 
Iraq and Afghanistan with a Congressional Delegation led by 
Representative Gene Taylor of Mississippi and witnessed first hand the 
important work being done by the men and women of our armed forces. Our 
group spent time meeting with civilian and military leaders serving on 
the ground in each country. The holidays are always a difficult time 
for the men and women of the armed forces as they are away from their 
loved ones. One of the things that they will tell you makes this time 
of year a little easier is to enjoy some of the comforts of home.

Thanks to Bob Munson, President of Munson's Chocolates of Bolton, the 
men and women of the 890th Engineer Battalion and the 926th Engineer 
Brigade, Multi-National Division currently serving in Baghdad were able 
to enjoy a sweet reminder of home. A few days before Christmas 
Congressman Taylor arranged for 2,000 pounds of shrimp gumbo to be 
served to the battalion and Munson's donated almost 600 Connecticut 
made chocolate bars for dessert. This gift is just another example of 
the generosity of the Munson family, who for generations has been 
active supporters of the military community.

The Munson family of employees is no stranger to the heartache 
families endure while their loved ones are serving overseas. During my 
visit to the Munson factory, I had the honor of meeting Kay Doherty. 
Kay's son Stephen recently returned from a tour in Iraq. As Kay can 
attest, the holidays are an extremely difficult and trying time for 
military families which is why this generous gift is so timely.
