# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `90d137da9127f38a67c60a78ac395655`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, today the House begins consideration of H.R. 5658, 
which is the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009.

This bill is a collective effort in the bipartisan tradition of the 
House Armed Services Committee which approved the bill in markup by a 
vote of 61-0. It is an excellent bill.

I want to thank the members of our Armed Services Committee, 
particularly the subcommittee chairmen, the ranking members, and 
actually every member of the committee.

Let me take this opportunity to also, Mr. Chairman, recognize the 
ranking member and former chairman, Duncan Hunter, for once again being 
a great partner on this bill, and he is certainly to be commended and 
thanked for it. I am proud that Duncan and I have worked so well 
together through the years and always with the common goal of enhancing 
American national security.

It is only fitting, Mr. Chairman, that as Duncan Hunter plans to 
retire at the end of this Congress, our committee colleagues 
unanimously voted to name this bill in his honor, recognizing Duncan 
Hunter's many years of service on the Armed Services Committee, and 
also recognizing his unfailing support of our men and women in uniform. 
And we thank him publicly for that.

Mr. Chairman, let me discuss some significant provisions of the bill. 
It reflects our committee's view that restoring military readiness must 
be our number one priority. This is serious business. If, after more 
than 6 years of war, our effort is to restore military readiness, then 
it must be sustained in order to meet not just current military 
challenges, which are monumental, but prepare for the unexpected 
conflicts we may face in the future.

We don't know what is around the corner. I might point out, in the 
last 31 years American military forces have been engaged in no less 
than 12 military conflicts, four of which have been major in size.

The bill directs approximately $2 billion toward unfunded readiness 
initiatives requested by the services. It includes $932 million to deal 
with equipment shortages as well as for equipment maintenance. The bill 
also provides for some $800 million for National Guard and Reserve 
equipment, and $650 million to keep defense facilities in good working 
order and to address urgent issues such as dilapidated military 
barracks.



To boost readiness and to reduce the strain on our forces, the bill 
increases the size of our military; 7,000 additional Army troops, 5,000 
additional marines, and prevents further military to civilian 
conversions in the medical field by authorizing an additional 1,023 
Navy sailors and 450 additional Air Force personnel.

The bill also maintains our efforts to support and honor the men and 
women who serve our Nation in uniform and their families, providing a 
much needed 3.9 percent pay raise increase, and again, prohibiting 
increases in health care fees, among a range of other initiatives.

I might point out, the administration recommended only a 3.4 percent 
pay raise, and we raised that, as we should have.

The authorization bill also keeps our focus on Afghanistan, which is 
the primary front in the war on terror. The bill requires the 
administration to submit separate budget requests to clearly lay out 
the requirements for the war in Afghanistan, and on the other hand, the 
war in Iraq. It requires a system be set up to measure the success of 
the U.S.-led Provincial Reconstruction Teams, and requires more robust 
congressional reporting on the training of the Afghan Security Force.

Finally, the bill requires the Department of Defense to address the 
issue of command and control for forces in Afghanistan operating under 
Operation Enduring Freedom, as well as the NATO International Security 
Assistance Force.

The bill authorizes a $70 billion bridge for the fights in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. But we remain convinced that it's well past time for the 
Iraqis to step up and contribute more substantially to their very own 
security, as well as their prosperity. With the Iraqis' overwhelming 
budget and capital account surpluses, the bill requires Iraqis to 
invest more in their own reconstruction, as well as their own security 
efforts.

The bill also includes steps toward contracting reform after the 
substantial improvements in the law which we enacted in our previous 
bill last year.

This bill underlines our commitment to preventing the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction. It adds $31 million for the Cooperative 
Threat Reduction programs of the Department of Defense, and some $215 
million from the Department of Energy's nonproliferation programs. 
That's important.

Finally, I want to say a word about the need for reforms in the way 
our government coordinates and executes its national security policy. 
Many here in Congress as well as the executive branch are working to 
improve our interagency system. It's a massive effort that cannot be 
accomplished in any one single year.

I remember well the now famous Goldwater-Nichols Act. It was an 
effort over 4 years in the Congress of the United States which, of 
course, made jointness part of the military culture, and this may well 
be along the same line, although hopefully it will not take 4 years to 
accomplish. But it cannot be done in one single year.

At the appropriate time during the bill's consideration, I will offer 
an amendment along with Chairman Howard Berman of the Foreign Affairs


Committee and Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Nita Lowey to 
establish a standing advisory board to work with the Secretaries of 
State and Defense on interagency matters and report to Congress their 
recommendations.

Before I reserve the balance of my time, let me pay tribute to those 
Members who plan to leave Congress at the end of this session and for 
whom this will be their final defense authorization bill. In addition 
to the retirement of our friend and ranking member, Duncan Hunter, I 
want to express my appreciation to two other senior Members who plan to 
retire, Congressman Jim Saxton and Congressman Terry Everett. Both 
these gentlemen have made a very important contribution to our 
committee through the years and, consequently, have been wonderful 
partners, as well as outstanding Americans.

In addition, two of the most capable and committed members of our 
committee, Rob Andrews and Mark Udall, plan to leave in order to seek 
other offices. The House and our committee are all the better for their 
service, and we wish all of these members who are not going to return 
to our committee next year all the best. They will be missed.

This is a critical time in our Nation. This defense bill is a very 
important one. I urge Members of this House to support this defense 
authorization bill. It does so much in the area of readiness, to 
support our men and women in uniform and their families, and to protect 
the American people.

With that, and additional thanks to my friend, Duncan Hunter, on his 
final bill, we appreciate your work, your efforts, your friendship, Mr. 
Hunter.

I reserve the balance of my time.