# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `90d979587e8439e500298f52c19e8b40`
`Mr. GINGREY — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today not only in strong opposition 
to this ''our way or the highway'' rule, but also to the underlying 
bill, which I believe encroaches on the constitutional principle of 
separation of power, particularly the President's authority as 
Commander in Chief.

Regretfully, this rule prevents every single Member of this body, 
both Democrats and Republicans, from offering an amendment to an 
emergency wartime supplemental appropriations act, a highly 
unprecedented attack on the democratic process.

Mr. Speaker, I recognize the majority is insistent on a force pullout 
from Iraq, but the language in this supplemental puts this war and the 
soldiers' lives on autopilot. This legislation makes a flash-point 
decision about the war, about our men and women on the ground, with 
little regard to the actual facts 6 months, a year, and indeed 17 
months from now. It looks like ''Magic 8-Ball'' foreign policy.

Last night, Mr. Speaker, I offered an amendment to the Rules 
Committee. Unfortunately, it was not made in order, but it would have 
required this Congress to reevaluate the situation in Iraq at each of 
these timelines in the so-called Murtha language. So whatever the 
benchmarks, then we would have to come back and vote again, clean up or 
down vote, whether or not we want to bring the troops home.

Mr. Speaker, that is especially important at the drop-dead date of 
August of 2008, when this bill basically says no matter what, the 
troops come home, even if we have got the bad guys on the run. I think 
every Member of this body would want to support an amendment like this, 
so that we would once again be able to vote and reconsider, considering 
the situation on the ground.

So this legislation sets a dangerous precedent, and I respectfully 
ask my colleagues, oppose the rule, oppose the underlying bill. Let's 
work, both Republican and Democrat alike, let's produce a supplemental 
that will actually pass this House, pass the Senate and be signed by 
the President. Do right by our American soldiers, and our people and 
the people in Iraq.