# FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007
## `90f49e93f4f8101464fedcf5a076e31e`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, these have been some terrible days 
for our country. Last Saturday, we lost 27 American men and women in 
Iraq, making it the third deadliest day for our country and our forces 
since this war began. A Blackhawk went down northeast of Baghdad; all 
12 of the troops aboard were killed. Men with grenades, mortars, and 
assault rifles attacked a building guarded by American and Iraqi forces 
in Karbala. Five American troops were killed that day. Coalition forces 
made a push against insurgents. Five more troops were killed and 59 
Iraqis along with them. In Anbar Province, four soldiers and a marine 
were killed.

Despite the President's handpicked Iraqi Study Group's bipartisan 
call for a new course, he has not listened. Despite the advice of GEN 
John Abizaid, a distinguished military leader and former Chief of Staff 
to Colin Powell, who called for a new course, despite the bipartisan 
calls of my colleagues who have called for a new course, despite the 
American people who last November called for a new course, and despite 
the rising death toll, the President has decided to escalate this 
conflict. He wants to send 21,500 more troops into the crossfire of a 
civil war.

Even more disturbing is the behavior and the rhetoric of the Vice 
President. I don't know how many of my colleagues had a chance to watch 
the Vice President's interview with Wolf Blitzer this week on CNN's 
''The Situation Room.'' But I encourage my colleagues who have not seen 
it to watch it. It is up on Youtube. You have to see it to believe it. 
In that interview, Vice President Cheney boasted of ''enormous 
successes in Iraq.'' He also rejected the idea that Iraq is in a 
''terrible situation.'' Imagine him dismissing that.

The interview was so incredible that the Washington Post discussed it 
on its front page on Thursday. The Vice President blamed everybody but 
himself for any troubles in Iraq.

As far as the Vice President was concerned, it was all the media's 
fault. What did he say of us, the Congress? He said we were helping the 
terrorists. Vice President Cheney's boasting of the Iraq successes was 
on the front page of the Washington Post that day. The story is 
incredible. It says on the front page of Thursday's paper: ''Defending 
Iraq war, defiant Cheney cites enormous successes.'' He says that the 
media is so eager to write off this effort or to declare it a failure. 
It goes on to say that there are problems in Iraq, but he said it's not 
a terrible situation.

Not a terrible situation. Describe that to the families who lost 
someone in the last few weeks in Iraq.

He said--this is the Vice President of the United States--he has a 
responsibility to help the President and to help communicate with the 
Congress. He doesn't. He sits here often, but he doesn't. He said that 
despite that, the congressional opposition won't stop us from sending 
20,500 more troops; it will only validate the course we are on.

Imagine. The story inside the paper was a very different one. The 
story told in these two pages in Thursday's Washington Post is 99 
faces, 99 more families who are going to mourn, 99 more children who 
will not see their father or their mother again, 99 parents who lost a 
child. And he says it is not a terrible situation? It is a disgrace.

This doesn't look like the face of enormous success. No, it doesn't. 
On those two pages alone is a total of 99 men and women who will never 
see their friends and family on American soil again. Madam President, 
3,063 American troops have died in Iraq; 74 of them had ties to my 
State of New Jersey. And we have seen over 23,000 with injuries, many 
severe, over 700 have lost limbs and many suffering from traumatic 
brain injury.

Of the almost 600,000 people--584,000 to be precise--who have served 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, over 30,000 of them have PTSD, post-traumatic 
stress syndrome; 30,000 countless brain injuries besides that.

The administration's troop increase is not simply a surge. What they 
did is they searched the word files, probably went to the computer and 
to the dictionaries to try to find a word that would evade the truth of 
what this is about. Surge is a euphemism for escalation of our 
involvement in this war.

When we hear the Vice President talking about enormous successes, it 
makes one wonder if the President and Vice President have been shielded 
from reality by their handlers. We see it in the continuation of the 
policy that says don't take any pictures of the flag-draped coffins 
when the remains of our soldiers are returned to the United States of 
America; don't do that. It is against the rules. Can you imagine that? 
That sign of honor to the deceased shielded from the view of the public 
because underneath that flag lies the remains of some young person.

That is the way they see things, and now we are told to expect 
another $100 billion request from the administration to fund this war. 
When does it end?

I am a proud cosponsor of legislation that is authored by my 
colleague Senator Biden. Senator Hagel served valiantly in Vietnam. He 
knows what war is like. Senator Levin and Senator Snowe--all denounce 
this dangerous increase. This resolution, which easily passed the 
Foreign Relations Committee, is clear in stating that the Bush surge is 
not in the national interests. It is certainly not in the interests of 
the families who have sons or daughters serving there. It puts the 
Senate on record as being against a growing military conflict that will 
hurt our


long-term goals abroad and our security at home.

Similar to the young men and women serving today, I was proud to wear 
the uniform of my country in World War II in Europe. Those who are 
serving are obeying the orders of their Commander in Chief, and they do 
it fully and bravely.

In that war, World War II, the mission was clear: Defeat the enemies 
who attacked us. While the battles and the casualties were in far-off 
places, the brunt of the war's burden was borne by the families at 
home.

We started this fight because we were told things that proved not to 
be true. We believed in our leaders, and we thought they were telling 
us the truth. What else would we think? The President, the Vice 
President, then the chief of the military, Colin Powell, and others--we 
had faith in their belief. We had faith in the mission. Many of us 
doubted. I was out of the Senate for a 2-year period, and that is when 
that decision was made, but I would have believed it, coming from those 
illustrious positions with people who were known for substance because 
of the fact that they had achieved those positions. We had faith, but 
the mission in Iraq was surrounded in a fog.

It is time to redefine this mission in Iraq, a mission that includes 
bringing our troops home. The Iraqis say they want us to leave. Members 
of Congress and military leaders want us to leave, and the American 
people, in a broad consensus, want us to leave. Bring home those 
troops, they say.


Outside my office, I continue to pay my respects to these soldiers. I 
have a display called The Faces of the Fallen, all who have perished in 
this war up to a date that we can get the latest pictures, such as 
those we see displayed in the Washington Post. The display gives us a 
face to the names of the soldiers who have lost their lives in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Visitors come by. Some of them are families and friends. 
Visitors search the photos daily for people they know, love and miss 
and they write notes in a book we have provided. Everyone who signs 
that book ''God bless these people,'' honors them for their service, 
even though there is a question about whether they ought to be serving 
there now.

Until President Bush listens, until Vice President Cheney realizes 
this is more than a bunch of victories, that successes are there, until 
that language is wiped out of their daily statements, we are going to 
have to keep adding faces to that display of fallen heroes memorial. 
And I am going to have to say to people who come into my office in New 
Jersey, particularly, who have sons and daughters serving there--one 
woman tells me about her son who was wounded, got the Purple Heart, and 
they are sending him back to combat or the woman who comes in crying so 
bitterly that you can barely hear her talk. She screamed at me at first 
when I called her when the notice of her son's death was given. She 
asked the question: My son was a second lieutenant. He loved being in 
the military. He was a trained artillery officer. What in the world 
were they asking him to do when they asked him to defuse roadside 
bombs? He lost his life defusing a bomb.

No, Madam President, if the message can't get through to the White 
House and the leadership, what faith can we have in the decisions made 
in this country today? It is discouraging. The world doesn't believe 
us. The people in our country don't believe us, in huge numbers. Yes, 
there are those who serve bravely and constantly. They do what they are 
told. That is what one does in the military. But while we think of 
sending people there who have already had, some of them, two tours of 
duty and they are being sent for a third tour of duty, it is impossible 
to imagine that their consciences don't keep them awake at night, but 
apparently they don't.

I yield the floor.