---
---

# ENERGY INDEPENDENCE IS A MATTER OF NATIONAL SECURITY
## `91007d660eac0e79406c576ea5e330c3`
`Mr. McMAHON — 21 July 2009`

---


Mr. McMAHON. I thank Congressman Tonko for those inspiring words, and 
thank you all.

You know, it's funny, but in conclusion, I think we all have hit on 
the very important themes.

Congressman Kratovil pointed out that it is about the domestic side, 
how much we pay for oil and gas, and what happened last summer, $4 of 
gas, America was outraged, that somehow a year later we've forgotten 
that because there are those in the House of Representatives of the 
United States Congress who use misinformation and misstatement of facts 
to somehow take the American people's focus off what has to be done.

Just think about how many people you talk to at home who said, what, 
now I have to have an energy auditor in my house when I sell my home? 
We know that's not in the bill; yet, there are those who on the other 
side of the aisle have used that misrepresentation of fact to scare the 
American people, and that's wrong.

Congressman Boccieri is a great veteran, a great flyer of planes for 
the United States military service. We thank you for your service, and 
you remind us that right now there are young men and women wearing the 
uniform of our country in places like Iraq and Afghanistan and other 
places, standing in harm's way because we have not dealt forcefully and 
effectively with our energy policy, and it's time that we end that.

And as I said to you, coming from New York City and having lived 
firsthand the horrors of the acts of terrorism on our shores, in our 
country, we cannot forget the sacrifice that was made that day by those 
who lost their lives and those who got to the site and came to the 
rescue and continue to suffer the deleterious effects of their health.
