# None
## `910d0fa1a9d5bbf335c18f41e5ccd580`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I wish to talk about the reauthorization 
of the Children's Health Insurance Program and why those who are 
opposing the bill are making this a nightmare for children. When I 
first came to the floor in support of the bill on July 31, I knew there 
were those who did not share my support, but I thought they would 
merely be a road bump to reauthorization. Now it seems we have a 
roadblock to children getting critical care they need.

How many times can you veto or vote against children receiving health 
care and not raise a question as to your role as a representative of 
the people? How many times can you veto or vote against children 
receiving health care and then turn around and take pictures with 
babies and families back in your


home State? How many times can you veto or vote against children 
receiving health care and then still argue that you care about the 
well-being of children other than your own?

I don't understand how we have gotten to this point, but let me make 
this very simple. The bill at its core provides health care for poor 
children. Yet there are those in Congress and the White House who are 
missing that bottom line. More important, their votes are hurting our 
Nation's children.

There are 9 million children in America who suffer in silence because 
they do not have health care; 6 million of them are eligible for the 
Children's Health Insurance Program or Medicaid, but they are not 
enrolled.

That keeps me up at night. I hope it keeps up at night others who 
have to cast a vote soon as well.

I want to be sure we know the families and children we are talking 
about. The families we seek to cover work every day at some of the 
toughest jobs in America--some of them jobs none of us would want to 
do, but they work at it every day. They work at jobs that offer no 
health care coverage whatsoever and they do not make enough money from 
their employment to afford private coverage. It is the children in 
these families we are trying to cover. So let's talk about the reasons 
why there are those who continue to vote to bar children from health 
care.

That is strong language, but I have had enough of sugar-coating this 
issue. The new bill includes substantial revisions to try to reach out 
to colleagues who have raised issues and directly addresses a number of 
the concerns they have talked about. According to the Congressional 
Budget Office, the new bill would continue to cover nearly 4 million 
uninsured children by 2012, at a cost of about $35 billion over 5 
years. That is a fraction of what we spend in Iraq. That is in addition 
to the over 6 million children already covered by this program.

Those opposed to this bill have been shouting about how the bill 
needs to cover more low-income children. Good news, the new bill would 
further increase our focus on covering the lowest income uninsured 
children. The new bill would prohibit any coverage above 300 percent of 
the poverty line, except for some who have already been grandfathered 
in. Limiting new coverage to 300 percent is a harder line than the 
original bill, and it is a concrete ceiling for new coverage. It also 
changes the financial incentives States receive to enroll more 
children, and it ensured we are targeting the enrollment of low-income 
children.

The new bill only provides these incentives to States when they 
enroll Medicaid-eligible children and no longer includes incentives for 
enrolling SCHIP children, as was in the original bill.

In fact, this new bill will cover an additional 100,000 children as 
compared to the original bill, for a grand total of 3.9 million 
children gaining coverage under the bill on which we will be voting 
cloture. Of these children, essentially half are Medicaid eligible. 
These children are the low-income children many of our colleagues are 
talking about. This new bill brings in 200,000 more Medicaid-eligible 
children than the first bill.

We have listened and we have made changes. But compromising on 
children's health can only go so far. The second issue I have heard, 
and it makes my blood boil, is the argument that undocumented 
immigrants would gain coverage under this bill. I know it is Halloween 
so we are going to scare the American people as best we can, but this 
is a tactic that cannot stand. Let's make it clear: Undocumented 
immigrants are not eligible for Medicaid and CHIP, they have never 
been, and nothing in this bill changes that. Nothing in this bill 
changes that. It is a shame there are Members who still come on the 
floor using that argument.

In fact, the new bill tightens citizenship requirements. States will 
seek to verify names and Social Security numbers but also have to 
verify citizenship with information from the Social Security 
Administration. The Social Security Administration will check the 
information received from the States to determine that the information 
matches and also check to see if the database shows that the applicant 
is a citizen. If they can confirm--great. We have another citizen with 
health care. If not, the State has to require original documents to 
prove citizenship. This is in no way an open door, and in no way should 
we allow this to continue to be used as a false reason to not give 
health care to children in this country.


I ask my colleagues to stop tying up this issue, trying to make 
children's health care an immigration debate so we can have it every 
night on the nightly news being about immigration. Oh, it is about 
immigration. It is not about immigration. It is about children's health 
care; children who do not have it, cannot afford it, and will not have 
it unless this Congress acts.

Some have also raised the question about adults. The reality is we 
cover some parents. This administration gave us waivers to do it 
because they said it is a good thing: Let's cover parents who are also 
in these jobs, working hard, not able to afford health care, not 
getting it at work--because we are getting more children involved 
through their parents. By the way, we happen to cover more Americans--
isn't that a terrible thing? We happen to cover more Americans, of the 
47 million who have no health care coverage whatsoever. It is a 
terrible thing.

I think it is quite a good thing. I have seen it succeed in my home 
State of New Jersey. We have found a strong correlation between 
enrollment of parents and enrollment of children.

Finally, if values match our actions, this bill needs to be supported 
by all Members in the House and Senate and signed into law by the 
president. It is time for President Bush to stop making his fiscal 
conservative bones on the health care of children. It is time for the 
President to put away the veto pen and allow doctors to take out their 
stethoscopes to make our children healthier. It is time to give the 
children of America what the President and every Member of the Senate 
and Congress has, health care coverage, health care for America's most 
precious asset but also its most vulnerable asset--our children.

I yield the floor.