---
---

# None
## `9126ba746f479f51e1626054f837649e`
`Mr. KAGEN — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you, Mr. Perlmutter. I couldn't agree with you more. 
It really begs the question about not just whose side we're on, but 
what are the lessons that we've been learning.

I have not been in politics. I was in student council in 1966, and 
now I'm in Congress. I was a physician. Still am. I had a nice medical 
practice, but I got involved in this line of work because we were 
headed in that wrong direction we've been describing. We have taken 
since 2007 in January a positive change. We've been making incremental, 
small, little changes. It is so frustrating having come from the world 
of business to the world of government where changes are so slow, but 
it's so necessary. One would think that the President took office to 
prove what government could not do, and it's really incumbent upon us 
to prove that good government could really make a positive difference 
in everybody's lives.

The two lessons I've learned since getting into this world of 
politics is that people will believe a lie if it's presented with great 
skill on television. People will believe a lie if it's presented over 
and over with great skill. The other lie is that--well, it's not really 
a lie. It's a lesson. Politicians will determine who lives and who 
dies. It's politicians here in this Chamber. It's politicians in the 
White House who will determine who has access to health care and who 
does not, who will determine who gets a great education and who does 
not, who will determine whether or not we truly become an energy 
independent Nation or if we do not or who will determine if we ever go 
to war again based on lies and deceptions.

That is why I emphasize the fact that we need in the White House 
today people with good judgment, people who can think things all the 
way through, someone who will sign a bill to guarantee access to 11 
million children who are in need, someone who will sign that bill, not 
veto that bill. I'm referring to the change, to the positive change, 
that we really need.

When you talk, Mr. Welch, about the war in Iraq, does anyone question 
that that war was a war of choice, not of necessity? Does anyone 
believe that it had not something to do with oil? Has the price of oil 
gone down since we've occupied and have invaded Iraq? Not at all. Quite 
the contrary.

So what we have to do in this Chamber is to begin to find a way 
forward to become fiscally responsible and to stay true to our beliefs 
that we are also progressive-minded and that we really do care about 
the middle class. We need to resuscitate that middle class as soon as 
possible. In the next several days, that is why we are going to take up 
an energy independence bill, a comprehensive national strategy to 
become energy independent once again. That's what this Chamber has the 
responsibility of doing in a bipartisan way, and I look forward to 
doing that in the next several days.

Thank you, Mr. Welch, for bringing up the subject of war.

Again, as Mr. Perlmutter pointed out, it is our soldiers, the men and 
women who have volunteered to serve in our Armed Services, who are 
paying the price for our continued and seemingly endless occupation in 
Iraq. Those


are the soldiers who have covered our backs in battle, and we owe it to 
them to cover their backs when they return.

I yield to Mr. Klein from Florida.