---
---

# ENHANCING SECURITY TO RAIL AND MASS TRANSIT LINES
## `9132f0140624d27ceabd7901708dea92`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 2 December 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 
resolution and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 28 expresses the sense of the House of 
Representatives that TSA should increase and enhance its efforts to 
secure rail and mass transit systems in ways that are consistent with 
the 9/11 Act and H.R. 2200.

Let me first of all say, Mr. Speaker, that in addition to this 
legislation, as we stand on the floor today and watch the actions in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, as we see the world changing from Mumbai to 
Madrid, we recognize the crucialness of national security and homeland 
security. And so this legislation is to emphasize the importance of 
expanding our oversight and response to the idea of mass transit and 
rail transportation.

I introduced this resolution because deadlines in the 9/11 Act have 
passed without being satisfied, which is inexcusable given the risks 
faced by our Nation's rail and mass transit systems. In addition, I 
authored H.R. 2200, the TSA authorization bill, which included several 
elements that sought to enhance TSA's surface transportation efforts. 
That bill passed in an overwhelmingly bipartisan manner earlier this 
year. As we wait for our friends in the Senate to act on H.R. 2200, I 
believe that the House agreeing to this resolution recommits to our 
goal of TSA securing these modes of transportation.

Let me first of all acknowledge the professional men and women that 
work for the Transportation Security Administration. I am gratified to 
know that progress is being made of a new administrator for that 
agency. I've worked very hard in H.R. 2200 to focus on their 
professionalism. But they need tools and they need the tools that will 
allow us to focus on the security of these important elements of 
transportation, and, as well, the job engine of our community and our 
Nation.

Many Americans use mass transit. Many Americans use rail. Any 
irreversible, tragic terrorist act can impact the economy of this 
Nation. As we were reminded by the tragic events in Russia over the 
weekend and in other cities around the world over the last several 
years, rail and mass transit systems are prime targets for terrorist 
acts. When they're shut down, the economy can shut down.

This resolution recognizes TSA as being uniquely positioned to lead 
Federal efforts to secure our Nation's rail and mass transit systems, 
and recognizes the National Explosives Detection Canine Team Program as 
a valuable resource, which my friend from Alabama has worked on. I 
might also say that this effort today, this resolution, is also to save 
lives. As such, it is critical that TSA's security efforts share our 
commitment to securing these systems.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution and 
send a message about the importance of protecting our people, our 
infrastructure, and our economy.

I reserve the balance of my time.