# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007
## `913e2effad1810151a2073e4323afaa0`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Last week the President asked for $200 billion more for 
the war in Iraq. In the same week, the White House said that the 
bipartisan plan to give 10 million children health care included 
''excessive spending'' and threatened to veto it.

I agree we have excessive spending. In Iraq. For 41 days of the war 
in Iraq, 10 million U.S. children would get health care; 41 days of the 
war in Iraq, where we have been at war for over 4/1/2/ years.

Make no mistakes, this debate is not about spending. It is about 
priorities. So it is no surprise that the President finds himself 
increasingly isolated from Republicans here on Capitol Hill, in the 
Senate, in the House, and Republicans in the State capitals around 
America.

This President is isolated from where the American people are. They 
would like to see 10 million children get their health care.

Just listen to what Republicans have been saying. Senate Republican 
Orrin Hatch: ''We're talking about kids who basically don't have 
coverage. I think the President's had some pretty bad advice.''



Senator Charles Grassley, another Republican, said that the 
bipartisan plan ''breaks the legislative impasse and should have strong 
support from both Democrats and Republicans.''

From minimum wage, to lobbying reform, to veterans health care, to 
college education, we have passed bipartisan solutions to problems 
facing America. That is what this bill does.

Thank you for the Republican support for this Democrat initiative. It 
is right for America's children. It is time to put them first, 10 
million kids.