---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `915b218c1f2aa67b010c7100532737d6`
`Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN — 30 July 2007`

---


Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank our distinguished chairman 
for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1315, the Veterans' 
Benefits Improvement Act of 2007. As the sponsor of H.R. 1315, I want 
to thank Chairman Filner and Ranking Member Buyer, as well as my good 
friend subcommittee Ranking Member Boozman, for their strong leadership 
and unwavering dedication to our veterans and for working hard to craft 
this bipartisan bill.



I would also like to thank Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee of Texas 
and Congressman Dave Reichert of Washington and Congressman Tim Walz of 
Minnesota who have contributed substantially to this important 
legislation.

As more and more of our troops are deployed in missions around the 
globe, additional steps must be taken to promote and protect the health 
and welfare of our veterans. Their honorable, courageous and patriotic 
service demands no less. In light of increasing numbers of disabled 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, the already urgent demand 
to pass legislation to meet the needs of these new veterans is rising.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation would provide specially adaptive 
housing assistance to disabled servicemembers who have not yet been 
discharged from active duty and therefore have not reached veteran 
status. Under current law, a temporary grant is available to disabled 
veterans who are or will be temporarily residing in a home owned by a 
family member. Our original intent in the last Congress was to allow 
servicemembers in transition prior to discharge to also use this 
benefit. However, the law, as currently written, does not qualify 
transitioning servicemembers for these housing grants. This legislation 
seeks to clarify congressional intent and provide assistance up to 
$14,000 to adapt the family member's home to meet the transitioning 
servicemember's special needs.

In addition, this legislation would direct the Secretary of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a scholarship program for 
students seeking a degree or certificate in blind rehabilitation under 
the Health Professional Education Assistance program. In exchange for 
the scholarship award, students will be required to work for 3 years in 
a health care facility within the Department of Veterans Affairs.

This bill would also require the Secretary of the Department of Labor 
and the Secretary of the Department of Defense to coordinate their 
sharing of and reporting on the complaint data filed by National Guard 
and Reservists facing difficulty in obtaining employment. It would 
require the use of uniform categories in tracking and reporting the 
data, including the difficulty of obtaining employment experienced by 
veterans with service-connected disabilities. These provisions will 
enable Congress to better identify trends in the reemployment 
challenges faced by our returning Guard and Reserve forces, and the 
corrective actions needed to ease their transition back into the 
civilian workforce.

Finally, H.R. 1315 would add a representative from the National 
Governors Association to the existing 15-member Advisory Committee on 
Veterans Employment, Training and Employer Outreach located under the 
auspices of the Department of Labor. This has been a priority for both 
the chairman and the ranking member of the full committee.

During the last Congress, we passed legislation which became Public 
Law 109-46 that was intended to add the National Governors Association 
representative to the Advisory Committee


on Veterans Employment, Training and Employer Outreach. However, a 
technical error did not increase the total authorized membership to 16, 
preventing the National Governors Association from being added to the 
Advisory Committee on Veterans Employment, Training and Employer 
Outreach.

In summary, this bill will provide our injured servicemembers the 
resources needed to live with the comfort and independence they 
deserve, expand education programs to more effectively address the 
rehabilitative needs of our veterans, bolster reemployment aid for 
returning veterans, and strengthen the advisory committee membership 
within the Department of Labor.

I commend the leadership of Chairman Filner and certainly the great 
bipartisan working relationship that Mr. Boozman and I have enjoyed 
over the last two Congresses. I urge my colleagues to vote favorably on 
the final passage of H.R. 1315.