---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `9167911d0bb0e61b5f5e0f1c544a6aab`
`Mr. INOUYE — 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, Last evening the Senate made a regrettable 
decision to defer action on completing its work on the fiscal year 2011 
Appropriations bills. I shouldn't have to remind anyone that we are in 
mid-December, 1 week before Christmas, nearly 3 months into the fiscal 
year.

Yet because our Republican colleagues have decided that they cannot 
support a bill that they helped craft, we now face placing the Federal 
Government on autopilot for another 2 months under a continuing 
resolution--a CR.

My colleagues should all understand the consequences of this 
decision. First, a CR does virtually nothing to accommodate the 
priorities of the Congress and it abdicates responsibility for 
providing much needed oversight of the requests of the executive 
branch.

Each year, the Senate Appropriations subcommittees conduct hundreds 
of hearings to review the budgets of our government agencies. Our 
committee members and staffs conduct thousands of meetings with 
officials from the executive branch, our States and municipalities, 
leaders and workers from American companies, and the general public.

The committee relies heavily on the work of the Government 
Accountability Office, the Congressional Budget Office and outside 
experts to determine spending needs. Tens of thousands of questions are 
forwarded each year to officials in the executive branch asking them to 
justify the funding requested for each respective agency.

It is painstaking, detailed work. It requires great knowledge of each 
of our Federal agencies, a desire to dig into the nitty gritty details 
of agency budgets and question the programs and functions they manage.

This annual review is conducted in a bi-partisan fashion with 
Democratic and Republican Members and staff working in close 
cooperation to determine how our taxpayer funds should best be 
allocated.

These meetings, reviews, questions, and deliberations together led to 
the formulation of 12 individual Appropriations bills. Each bill is 
drafted by the subcommittee chairman and ranking Member in concert, 
marked up by it subcommittee, and then reviewed, debated, and amended 
by the full committee.

A year's worth of work came down to a choice. Would the Senate 
acquiesce in providing a bare bones approach to governing or would it 
insist upon allocating funding by agency and by program with thousands 
of adjustments that are the result of the good work of the House and 
Senate Appropriations committees?

To me, the answer was obvious. Nothing good comes from a CR. The 
Congress owes it to the American people to demand that programs funded 
by their hard-earned money will be for the best purposes we can 
recommend based on the countless hours of work of our committees and 
their staff.

Some will point out that a continuing resolution will result in fewer 
dollars being spent. That is technically correct. A CR will include 
less spending than was included in the omnibus, but like the old saying 
goes--you get what you pay for.

The savings in the continuing resolution come primarily by 
shortchanging national defense and security. Under the CR, the total 
allocated to the Defense subcommittee for discretionary spending is 
$508 billion. Under the omnibus bill the total is $520.6 billion. So, 
more than half of the so-called savings is really additional cuts to 
the Defense Department.

For Homeland Security the CR would cut nearly $800 million from the 
omnibus measure.

In fact, if we look at the funding for all security programs in the 
bill, more than $15 billion in cuts come from this sector.

Surely we could have all agreed that we shouldn't be determining our 
national defense and security funding on the fact that Congress was 
unable to finish its work.

Who among us really believes we should base our recommendations for 
defense, homeland security, and veterans on whatever level was needed 
last year? This is no way to run a government. The United States of 
America is not a second-rate nation, and we should not govern ourselves 
as if she is second rate.

The continuing resolution by design mandates that programs are to be 
held at the amounts provided last year, regardless of merit or need. 
Moreover, in the vacuum this creates, it is left to the bureaucrats to 
determine how taxpayer funds are allocated, not elected 
representatives. At this juncture, may I suggest that I believe we who 
represent our States know more about our States than these bureaucrats. 
I do not believe the people of Hawaii elected me to serve in the Senate 
as a rubberstamp.

The alternative I offered was a product of bipartisan cooperation in 
the Senate. It represented a good-faith effort to fund many of the 
priorities of the administration, while ensuring that it is the 
Congress that determines how the people's money will be spent.

While the omnibus bill we drafted provided more funding than the CR, 
it is by no means the amount sought by the administration. Earlier this 
year, more than half of this body voted to limit discretionary spending 
to the so-


called Sessions-McCaskill level, which in total is $29 billion below 
the cost of the budget requested by the Obama administration. The 
Appropriations Committee responded to the will of the majority of the 
Senate and adopted this ceiling on spending. Moreover, we did not use 
any gimmicks or tricks to hit this target. Instead, each of our 
subcommittees was directed to take another look at the funds they were 
recommending and provide additional cuts. Each was tasked to identify 
unneeded prior-year funds and to use those to achieve this reduced 
level. And it was not easy, sir. Many worthwhile programs were cut, but 
we reduced the bills reported from the committee by $15 billion--enough 
to reach the Sessions-McCaskill level while still fully funding and 
paying for Pell grants and covering all CBO scoring changes. The 
administration's top priorities have received funding but not always at 
the level sought. Congressional priorities were cut back. Essential 
needs were met, but there were no frills.

For many Members, this debate focused on what we call earmarks. Here, 
too, the Congress tightened its belt. As defined by Senate rules, we 
reduced our spending that was provided in fiscal year 2010 by nearly 35 
percent. Less than $8 billion was recommended in the omnibus bill for 
congressionally directed spending programs as compared to more than $12 
billion last year. My colleagues should be advised that since 2006, the 
Congress has reduced spending on earmarks by just about 75 percent. In 
total, the omnibus bill recommended less than three-quarters of 1 
percent of discretionary funding on the so-called earmarks. A tiny 
fraction of funds are provided so all of you can support the needs of 
your constituents which are not funded by the administration.

We have all heard those who say this election was about earmarks. 
Nothing could be further from the truth. This election was not about 
earmarks. My colleagues who went home and reminded the voters what they 
had done for them--yes, with earmarks--are returning to the Senate. If 
this election was about public distaste for earmarks, why did I receive 
a higher percentage of votes than any other Member of this body who had 
an opponent? Why is it that virtually all of my colleagues who took 
credit for earmarks will be coming back next year?

This election was about gridlock and partisan gamesmanship. And what 
we saw in the past 24 hours is more of the same--endless delaying 
tactics, followed by decisionmaking by partisan point-scoring rather 
than what is good for our Nation.

Some of our colleagues have suggested that since this bill is 2,000 
pages long, it is obviously too big. But as we all know, this is not 1 
bill; it is 12 bills, funding all government agencies. Of course it is 
2,000 pages long. It is simply not rational to object to a bill because 
of its length. And that is nonsense.

Too often, our debates in the Senate focus on mind-numbing budget 
totals that are hard to grapple with. But when the CR is $15 billion to 
$20 billion below the omnibus, it is not just a number; it is specific 
programs that will be cut or eliminated. When we point out that 
congressional priorities were curtailed, these are real programs that 
impact the lives of millions of Americans. When we are talking about a 
bill as large as the omnibus, we are talking about thousands of such 
programs.

For example, in the Defense Subcommittee, we prioritized the purchase 
of more helicopters to move about the rough terrain in Afghanistan. 
Keep in mind that there are thousands of men and women--American men 
and women--in uniform, putting themselves in harm's way, sometimes 
being injured or killed. These funds were not requested in the 
Pentagon's budget but were identified as a need by field commanders. So 
the committee justifiably appropriated more than $900 million to buy 
new helicopters. This will be lost from the bill when we vote for a CR 
instead of the omnibus.

We added $228 million to test and procure the new double-V hull 
improvements to Stryker armored vehicles, which will dramatically 
improve soldiers' protection. These were not included in the 
President's request.

To support our wounded warriors, we added $100 million for lifesaving 
medical research in psychological health and traumatic brain injury.

Under the CR, funding for the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, 
which secures nuclear weapons and materials in Russia, would be reduced 
by $100 million.

There are hundreds of additional examples which could be described in 
defense alone, from breast cancer research to additional F-18 jets for 
the Navy which they have declared to be essential.

But it is not just defense that will be impacted. Similar issues will 
be found in every agency. It is evident, for example, that the threat 
to the security of the United States evolves every day. As evidenced by 
the growth of homegrown terrorism, such as the Times Square bomber, the 
New York subway plot, the Fort Hood shooting, and the recent efforts to 
blow up aircraft over the United States; whether the Christmas Day 
bombing attempt or the recent attempt to blow up all-cargo planes, it 
is critical that careful decisions be made on the allocation of 
resources to the Department of Homeland Security. But a continuing 
resolution would not provide the Transportation Security Administration 
with the resources necessary to enhance our defenses against terrorist 
attacks, such as Northwest flight 253 and the recent attempts against 
all-cargo aircraft.

This omnibus bill provides $375 million above the continuing 
resolution for TSA to acquire 800 explosives trace detection units, 275 
additional canine teams, hire 31 additional intelligence officers, and 
strengthen our international aviation security.

This omnibus bill provides $52 million above the continuing 
resolution to deploy radiation portal monitors where vulnerabilities 
exist, such as airports and seaports, and for radiation-detection 
pagers and backpacks used to detect and identify nuclear materials.

Because we have chosen not to enact an omnibus, we will miss an 
opportunity to address cyber security at the Department of 
Transportation. The Department recently assessed the security of its 
computer systems and found it sorely lacking. Security gaps at the 
Department are putting at risk computer systems that manage our air 
traffic and monitor our national infrastructure. The Department 
requested $30 million for fiscal year 2011 to fix this problem as soon 
as possible. An omnibus appropriations bill would have provided this 
funding, but a CR will do nothing to address this urgent problem.

Not passing this omnibus would halt new national security 
enhancements intended to improve the FBI's cyber security, weapons of 
mass destruction, and counterterrorism capabilities and assist in 
litigation of intelligence and terrorism cases. The FBI will not be 
able to hire 126 new agents and 32 intelligence analysts to strengthen 
national security.


The omnibus was better for our brave men and women who work as 
members of law enforcement to make our streets and the everyday lives 
of our constituents safer.

Without an omnibus, the Department of Justice will not be able to 
hire 143 new FBI agents and 157 new prosecutors for U.S. attorneys to 
target mortgage and financial fraud scammers and schemers who prey on 
America's hard-working middle-class families and devastated our 
communities and economy.

When it comes to the health and well-being of our constituents, it is 
clear that passing an omnibus is just better policy. Again, we are 
talking about redirecting our resources to address today's needs, not 
last year's needs.

Specifically, the omnibus bill included $142 million in vital program 
increases for the Indian Health Service that are not in the CR, which 
includes $44 million for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund, which 
provides additional assistance to the neediest tribes; an additional 
$46 million for Contract Health Services; an additional $40 million for 
contract support costs, as well as support for new initiatives in drug 
prevention, chronic diseases prevention, and assistance for urban 
Indian clinics. This omnibus bill would continue the strides that have 
been made in the recent past to significantly increase funding for the 
Indian Health Service and thereby provide more and better medical care 
for our


Native Americans and Alaska Natives. But this CR will bring that to a 
close.

There are hundreds more examples of what will not be done because the 
Congress will not pass this bill. However, because the CR turns over 
decisionmaking to the executive branch, we cannot even tell this body 
all the things the bureaucrats will not do that are important to 
Members of the Congress and to our constituents.

The bill I would have brought to the Senate represented a clear and 
far superior alternative. It better protected our national security. It 
ensured that the Congress determines how our citizens' funds will be 
allocated, as stipulated in our Constitution. It was written in 
coordination with Senate Republican Members. It was not a perfect 
document. It represented a lot of compromises. It made $29 billion in 
reductions from the President's program. But it was a good bill which 
ensured the programs important to the American people will be funded. 
It assumed responsibility for spending decisions that I believe are 
rightfully the duty of the Congress.


We find ourselves where we are today because we were unable to get 
this message across. In many respects it was a failure of 
communication. We were never able to adequately explain to everyone 
what the good things in this bill would have accomplished. So instead 
we are now faced with placing the government on autopilot. Our 
Republican colleagues will allow the administration to determine how to 
spend funds for another 2 months rather than letting the Congress 
decide.

In the 2 months, we will very likely find ourselves having to pass 
another 2,000-page bill that will cost more than $1 trillion or, once 
again, abdicating our authority to the administration to determine how 
taxpayer funds should be spent.

I wish there were a better way, but the decision by our colleagues on 
the other side who helped craft this bill has left us with no choice.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.