---
---

# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `91893a24662562da844eb06985bfa776`
`Mr. SAXTON — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from San Diego for 
yielding me this time.

I rise in support of this legislation and want to highlight two key 
components of the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act that have significant 
relevance to some of my own constituents who are currently recovering 
at Walter Reed Mologne House.

Section 101 of the bill concerns improving the medical and dental 
care for servicemembers assigned to hospitals in outpatient status. 
Under this section, medical care case managers will have the training 
and resources to enable them to work closely with servicemembers in 
managing patient care and ensuring that patients fully understand his 
or her status and has a realistic expectation of the process ahead.

One of my constituents has been at Walter Reed for close to 10 months 
now after being evacuated from Iraq. During this time, he has had 
challenges in knowing his status in the disability determination 
process. He has been told that he had anywhere from 30 to 60 days left, 
although Walter Reed is working hard to get him home sooner. He is 
eager to get back home to his family and employer. His employer is 
holding his job for him. It is difficult for him to plan accordingly, 
however, because without being fully informed of his status in the 
system, it makes his future uncertain.

This bill would ensure that going forward, this individual would have 
up-to-date information on his status so that he is no longer kept in 
the dark about when he can expect to go home.

Section 101 of the bill also includes the establishment of the 
service-member advocate who will assist the patient in ensuring quality 
of life issues are taken care of, assisting in resolving problems 
related to financial or administrative matters, and overall ensure the 
patient and the family members are informed of benefits and program 
issues.



Both of my constituents who are currently at Walter Reed could have 
benefited greatly from the servicemember advocate. They have both 
encountered various administrative problems that have since been 
resolved with the assistance of their chain of command. However, I 
believe these problems would have been avoided in the first place had 
they been in contact with an advocate mandated to assist in these types 
of issues.

During discussions with these two soldiers and Walter Reed officials, 
the pattern that I have seen is that the actual medical care these 
wounded warriors receive is actually quite outstanding. The problems 
have really occurred in the red tape and bureaucracy that surrounds the 
administrative requirements and disability process. It should not take 
3 or 4 months to begin receiving combat-related injury rehabilitation 
pay, for example. Servicemembers should receive accurate information in 
a timely manner when they inquire about their recovery plan or about 
specific benefits for which they might be eligible.

It is difficult at best for care managers to provide the necessary 
attention to a patient when they are handling caseloads beyond their 
capability. This bill goes a long way towards addressing this problem 
by limiting the number of cases for managers to oversee.

This bill and any other actions that this Congress can do to improve 
this system to ensure servicemembers receive the attention they deserve 
merits our full support; and I, therefore, urge everyone to support 
this bill.