---
---

# None
## `91898d33b2c52a56a73174beea97d09d`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman for yielding me this 
time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the 
Vietnam Veterans Memorial, along with my colleagues. Though the 
memorial stands primarily as a tribute to the 58,000 who were killed in 
Vietnam, the Wall, as it is more commonly known, continues to surpass 
its original purpose by acting as a quiet reminder of the price of our 
freedom and honoring the more than 153,000 men and women wounded in 
action. Perhaps most importantly, it serves as a source of healing for 
the 3 million men and women who served in the United States military 
during this war.

The design was inspired by a need to bring reconciliation and healing 
to a country that was deeply divided. Its simplicity is transcended by 
a powerful message of remembrance. Each name is a person with a story. 
These soldiers served with honor and distinction, and the memorial 
helps us to remember them with the highest regard.

As a Vietnam veteran myself, the memorial carries particular 
significance. I am reminded of the friends and comrades who gave their 
lives and of a far different time and place in my life.

It is with these memories in mind that I express my sadness and 
disappointment at the reports of the recent desecration of the Wall. 
The people who did this have violated a sacred trust, and I consider 
their actions deplorable. If there are those who applaud this behavior, 
I would only remind them of the hypocrisy of their beliefs. Our freedom 
was won by brave men and women such as those honored on this Wall, and 
we should hold them all reverently in our hearts, as I know that we do 
when we visit that very powerful memorial. Frankly, Mr. Speaker, I hope 
these reports are not true or are exaggerated. I was appalled to hear 
them.

I cannot help but draw parallels between the Vietnam war and the 
situation in Iraq. We have men and women today who are carrying the 
mantle for this generation. We must be mindful to accord them the 
respect that they deserve and honor their service.

After 25 years, the memorial is unparalleled in terms of the sheer 
power of its presence. And there is irony because it was built into the 
ground. I remember the great debate that was taking place in this city 
and around the country when that memorial was put into place. There 
were those who thought it was a dishonor, frankly, to the men and women 
who served, to have this memorial be in the ground. But I know that 
every Vietnam veteran and their family and friends and Americans who 
have taken that walk down and stood at that powerful wall has 
reevaluated that opinion. Everyone who has been there has been moved, 
and for that I am very thankful.