---
---

# IRAQ TROOP WITHDRAWAL
## `919ce2ef3df20b82c2c5790233a33a9d`
`Mr. McCAIN — 27 February 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I rise to address the President's plan to withdraw 
American troops from Iraq that he will announce today in Camp Lejeune, 
NC, as has been widely reported in the media.

Yesterday afternoon, I participated in a White House briefing with 
other Members of Congress, during which the President and his national 
security team described the contours of a plan to withdraw troops from 
Iraq. As he described it, this plan would aim to remove the bulk of 
combat troops by August of 2010, approximately 19 months, leaving up to 
50,000 troops in place. That is a little over a third of the present 
troop level in Iraq. Most combat forces would remain in place for the 
duration of this year, ahead of national elections likely to take place 
in December. National elections in December are of the utmost 
importance. To have security and the ability of the Iraqi people to 
take part in that election is a vital part of the progress Iraq will 
make toward freedom and democracy. The President noted that he reserves 
the right to revisit the timeline currently envisioned based on 
conditions on the ground.

It is encouraging that the dramatic success of the surge strategy has 
enabled us to move from a discussion about whether the United States 
could bear the catastrophic consequences of failure in Iraq to planning 
the way in which to consolidate the success. Thanks to the leadership 
of GEN David Petraeus, Ambassador Ryan Crocker, GEN Ray Odierno, and 
the many brave men and women who have served under them, the failing 
situation in Iraq has been arrested and reversed.

It is important to point out that the President's plan is not without 
risk. We have not yet completed the mission in Iraq, and the gains we 
have made there remain fragile. We will need to be cautious as we 
withdraw troops so as not to jeopardize these achievements and listen 
closely to commanders on the ground as the administration determines 
the pace of withdrawals. The greatest risk will be present ahead of the 
December elections, and conditions could worsen before or even after 
they take place.

With these factors in mind, I believe the President's withdrawal is a 
reasonable one. The plan is reasonable. Given the gains in Iraq and the 
requirements to send additional troops to Afghanistan, together with 
the significant number of troops who will remain in Iraq and the 
President's willingness to reassess based on conditions on the ground, 
I am cautiously optimistic that the plan, as laid out by the President, 
can lead to success.

The American people should be clear. The President's plan, even after 
the end of its withdrawal timeline is reached, will leave in place up 
to 50,000 U.S. troops. All will be in harm's way. Some will continue to 
conduct combat operations. They will play a vital role in consolidating 
and extending the remarkable progress our military has made since early 
2007. That is why I believe the administration should aim to keep the 
full complement of 50,000, as briefed by Secretary Gates and Admiral 
Mullen, and not succumb to pressures, political or otherwise, to make 
deeper or faster cuts in our force levels. The President's plan, as 
briefed yesterday, is one that can keep us on the right path in Iraq.

I worry, however, about statements made by a number of our colleagues 
indicating that, for reasons wholly apart from the requirement to 
secure our aims in Iraq, we should aim at a troop presence much lower 
than 50,000. We have spent enormous amounts of American blood and 
treasure in Iraq. We all know that. After all the tragic losses of 
life, after the hundreds of billions of dollars spent, after all the 
other costs our country has absorbed as a result of the conduct of the 
war, we are finally on a path to success. Let us have no crisis of 
confidence now. Instead, let us welcome home our fighting men and 
women, not only thanking them for serving in Iraq, not just for ending 
the war in Iraq but thanking them for bringing us victory in Iraq.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.