---
---

# None
## `91a289f2e6b50415f2ca78c1d1bcc940`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I rise in support of our troops. There are 
few things as important as the gift of one's labor, one's love, one's 
life. Our soldiers are asked to make generous sacrifices of these 
precious commodities every day. Our finest young soldiers work 19 hours 
a day in hot, dry, dangerous places such as Fallujah and Kabul. They do 
so because they have a deep love of country. Many of our soldiers make 
the ultimate sacrifice with their lives. Increasingly, we are asking 
more and more of our soldiers. In April, Secretary Gates announced he 
is extending the tours of duty for active-duty soldiers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan from 12 to 15 months. Our troops have already accomplished 
so much: deposed Saddam Hussein, toppled the Taliban, responded to the 
threats posed by vicious terrorists around the world. They have done 
everything we have asked of them. I was, therefore, disappointed when I 
came across a newspaper article this weekend noting that the 
administration opposes a modest pay raise for American soldiers.

The House Defense authorization bill includes a one-half of 1 percent 
increase in military pay above the President's request. For the average 
new enlistee, this will amount to roughly $75 per year in extra pay--
clearly, not enough to cover additional costs: school clothes for kids, 
a family trip to the ballpark, a few tanks of gas at the prices we are 
stuck paying.

The increase is aimed at reducing the gap in pay between comparable 
military and civilian jobs that stands at about 4 percent today. Even 
after the proposed increase, that gap will remain at least 1.4 percent, 
clearly not keeping up with civilian pay increases.

Of the billions of dollars we spend on the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq, it would seem absurd to oppose this small pay bump, but that is 
exactly what the administration is doing. In a May 17, 2007, letter to 
the House Armed Services Committee, the President's budget director 
announced the pay increase included in the House bill is 
''unnecessary.'' I believe it is necessary. I believe it is necessary 
to do anything we can to provide for the welfare of our fighting men 
and women. Salaries for newly minted enlistees start at about $15,600 
per year. To put this in perspective, new enlistees with three or more 
dependents are eligible for food stamps.

Among the sacrifices we ask of our men and women in harm's way, going 
hungry should not be one of them. In addition, the administration 
opposes a $40 per month increase in allowances for the widows of slain 
soldiers. Again, this is a modest bump in benefits and pales in 
comparison to the sacrifice these families have made. Forty dollars a 
month extra won't make it any easier to face another day without a 
loved one who is lost, but it could help pay the rent, keep the heat 
on, and relieve a bit of stress for families facing a new world without 
their spouse. That is why I am urging the administration to reconsider 
their opposition to a pay increase and additional survivor benefit. 
Supporting our troops is something we all agree on, Republicans and 
Democrats alike.

I ask the President to reconsider his opposition to increased pay for 
our soldiers and aid for this war's widows. We may not all agree on 
what we should do in Iraq going forward, but I believe we can and 
should reach a simple accommodation on troop pay.

Mr. President, I see my friend getting prepared. I ask for 1 or 2 
minutes' indulgence.















 children's health


Mr. President, in the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Bibles, the book 
of Ben Sirah counsels: ''Observe the opportunity.''

This year, the Senate has the opportunity to improve the health of 
millions of American children, for the next decade.

The Senate has the opportunity to renew and improve the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program, or CHIP.

Let us seize the opportunity.

There is no greater health care priority for me this year.

In a few short weeks, the Finance Committee will consider legislation 
to reauthorize and strengthen this successful 10-year-old program.

Many of us were present in this Chamber when we created CHIP in 1997. 
Since then, this program has proven to be a true success.

Since its inception, CHIP has brought health insurance to more than 
40 million low-income children.

It has saved the lives of many children, and it has improved the 
availability and quality of care for many more.

In my home State of Montana, Fawn Tuhy has some pretty active kids. 
Montana is a State full of active kids, and active kids get hurt.

Fawn's 2-year-old needed stitches after hitting her head. Fawn's 6-
year-old broke his arm twice.

Fawn's medical bills could have sunk their family of six. But she 
credits CHIP with keeping her kids healthy, and her family afloat.

CHIP has made that kind of difference for millions of Americans, in 
the last 10 years.

Among families with incomes less than about $34,000 a year--that is 
twice the poverty level--the share of uninsured children has dropped by 
a quarter.

CHIP has held the number of uninsured children down, even as the 
number of uninsured adult Americans has increased.

But Congress cannot rest on its laurels. We have to continue CHIP. We 
have to build on its success, and we have to do it before CHIP's 
funding expires, on September 30.

The Finance Committee is poised to act, with a markup early next 
month.

In this reauthorization, we will pursue five principles:

First, we must provide adequate funds to keep coverage for those who 
have it now.

Last week, the Congressional Budget Office reported that CHIP needs 
an additional $13.4 billion, just to maintain current coverage.

Maintaining level funding is just not good enough. If funding stays 
flat, then 4 million American children could lose health coverage, over 
the next 10 years.

Second, we must also reach the 6 million uninsured children who are 
eligible for either CHIP or Medicaid coverage but not enrolled.

CBO says that the best opportunity to further reduce the number of 
uninsured children is to target CHIP enrollment toward more families 
whose incomes are below twice the poverty level.

Third, we must support State efforts to expand CHIP coverage to more 
kids. States have found innovative ways to reach as many uninsured kids 
as possible. States have acted according to their unique abilities and 
needs.

Fourth, we must improve the quality of health care that children 
receive.

We are making great strides to improve the quality of health care for 
adults through Medicare. Yet there is no comparable investment in 
quality


standards for children. We can and must do more.

Fifth, whatever we do, we must not add to the numbers of the 
uninsured.

Right now, Federal waivers let some States provide CHIP coverage to 
pregnant women, to parents of eligible children, and even to some 
adults without children.

Congress may not want CHIP to cover all those groups in the future, 
but we must not pull the rug out from under anyone who has health 
coverage today.

Too many CHIP recipients are already in imminent danger. Right now, 
14 State programs are facing shortfalls for this year--even before 
CHIP's 10-year authorization expires.

I worked hard to include funds to cover funding shortfalls in the 
supplemental appropriations bill.

But even if we fix this year's shortfalls, many more States will face 
funding gaps in the coming years. We need to ensure greater 
predictability and stability of CHIP funding.

Ten years ago, we simply did not know how much funding CHIP would 
take. We know much more now, and we should make the appropriate 
financial commitment to keep kids healthy. We must take a forward-
thinking approach.

We must consider the likelihood of continuing increases in health 
care costs, and we must consider likely population changes.

We must consider that a child born today may have a shorter life 
expectancy than his or her parents. But that is what we face, due to 
the threats of obesity and related illnesses. So reauthorization must 
strengthen prevention and early screening benefits.

As we tackle CHIP, we should keep in mind the deep need for broader 
health reform. There are still too many families whose health stories 
don't have happy endings. CHIP cannot help them all. But it should help 
more.

One morning last year, Kearstin Jacobson woke up in Whitefish, MT, 
with a severe headache. Tests showed that the high school senior had a 
clot, preventing the blood flow from her brain.

Kearstin got wonderful care. But it cost almost a quarter of a 
million dollars, and her family did not have health insurance.

So even as the hospital staff wheeled Kearstin out of the emergency 
room, this young lady with a life-threatening condition was worried 
about money.

She was telling her parents how concerned she was about the financial 
burdens that her care would cause.

Kearstin feared that her parents would be paying for her care for 
many years to come, and they are.

This year, Congress has a historic opportunity to help families like 
Kearstin's.

We have an opportunity to make a good health policy for children even 
better.

An overwhelming majority of Americans support CHIP.

I extend my hand to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. Let's 
work together.

CHIP is not a Democratic priority or a Republican priority. It is an 
American priority.

America's kids are depending on us to do this right. We must not 
disappoint them.

Let us observe the opportunity to improve the health of millions of 
American children. Let us observe the opportunity to give peace of mind 
and financial security to millions of families. And let us renew and 
improve the Children's Health Insurance Program.

I thank the Senator from Alabama and yield the floor.