# None
## `91a234671fa4c99bf3bb1a36b5fbb401`
`Mr. REED — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Madam President, today I wish to speak on the Senate Armed 
Services Committee bill being considered by the Senate, S. 1547, the 
National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008. It is, I 
believe, a very good bill.

I wish to commend the chairman, Senator Levin, and his ranking 
member, Senator Warner, for their efforts and particularly the staff 
and all the work they have done which has contributed to this product 
today. It was reported favorably to the floor of the Senate by a 
unanimous vote of the committee, which shows its bipartisan support.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I have had the privilege 
of serving as the chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities 
Subcommittee, and I would like to share with my colleagues the 
highlights of our bill that originated in the Emerging Threats and 
Capabilities Subcommittee.

Before I describe those highlights, I also wish to commend and thank 
Senator Dole, the ranking member of my committee. It was a partnership 
and a pleasure to work together with her. She certainly gave valuable 
service, along with her staff, and I appreciate very much her personal 
contribution and her leadership on this issue.

I would also like to thank staff for their great contribution and 
their great effort.

By way of background, the Emerging Threats and Capabilities 
Subcommittee, also known as the ETC subcommittee, is responsible for 
looking at new and emerging threats and considering appropriate steps 
we should take to improve our capabilities to enhance our security in 
the light of these new emerging threats. Two of our committee markup 
objectives, in preparing the bill, were to improve the ability of the 
Armed Forces to meet nontraditional threats, including terrorism and 
weapons of mass destruction; second, to promote the transformation of 
the Armed Forces to meet the threats of the 21st century.

In a nutshell, that is what the ETC subcommittee should be all about, 
and I hope this legislation represents the sum of all our efforts in 
that regard.

This year, there are a number of issues, or themes, that the ETC 
subcommittee's portion of the bill addresses based on the emerging 
threats or challenges facing the United States and on capabilities we 
need to address these challenges. The first thing is the Defense 
Department's need for improved and alternate sources of energy. The 
Department is a massive consumer of energy, including for its military 
vehicles and platforms, and advanced technology may offer improved 
effectiveness at a reduced cost for our military in the area of energy 
conservation and energy demands.

The second area relates to the language of cultural challenges facing 
our military forces operating overseas. We held a very fine hearing on 
this subject, and there is clearly a need to improve the language and 
cultural awareness capabilities of the military and to make use of 
improved technology in this area. This would improve our military 
effectiveness and our mission success.

The third issue, or theme, is the threat from the proliferation of 
weapons of mass destruction and the need to improve U.S. efforts to 
reduce this proliferation risk. We held an excellent hearing with the 
former Senator Sam Nunn and Senator Richard Lugar, as well as witnesses 
from the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy, on these 
nonproliferation programs, and I think we all must recognize the debt 
we collectively owe, not only ourselves but the Nation, to both 
Senators Nunn and Senator Lugar for their path-breaking work on 
limiting nuclear proliferation and we commend and thank them for that. 
Given the potentially catastrophic damage that could result from such 
proliferation, we must always look for ways to strengthen and improve 
our nonproliferation programs.


The final and related theme and issue that we discussed is the threat 
of a terrorist incident within the United States involving a chemical, 
biological, radiological, nuclear or high-yield explosive device, which 
is known by the acronym CBRNE, a CBRNE device. The challenge is to be 
prepared to manage the consequences of such a domestic CBRNE incident 
and for the Defense Department to have the right capabilities, plans, 
and equipment to provide support to the civil authorities, if 
requested.

I will address the committee's action on these issues as I describe 
the highlights of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee's 
portion of the bill being considered by the Senate today. Let me start 
with the area of science and technology.

The bill authorizes increased investment in science and technology 
programs by over $450 million. These programs perform cutting-edge 
research that is developing the capabilities that will ensure the 
effectiveness of our Armed Forces in the future, while strengthening 
the Nation's high-technology innovation sector.

These additional S&T investments, which reflect military value and 
technical merit, are intended to enhance Defense Department activities 
in a number of areas--advanced and alternate energy technologies; new 
manufacturing capabilities; advanced medical technologies aimed at 
improving the care of combat casualties; and increased funding for 
defense-related university research that will provide the foundation 
for future military capability and, in fact, will probably contribute 
to our overall economy.

The Armed Services Committee bill authorizes investments of nearly 
$75 million for advanced energy technologies, including programs to 
develop fuel cells, hybrid engines, build hydrogen infrastructure such 
as fueling stations at military bases, and explore the use of biofuels 
for military systems.



These kind of technologies will save money and improve war-fighting 
capabilities, reduce America's dependency on foreign oil, and help DOD 
lead the way in the widespread droppings of alternative energy 
technologies.

The bill includes a provision sponsored by Senator Pryor that would 
enhance the Department's nanotechnology research program to reflect the 
maturation of nanotechnology in industry and in universities. It would 
push the Department to have a greater emphasis on issues such as 
nanomanufacturing, moving nanotechnology into major defense systems, 
and monitoring international capabilities in nanotechnology.

Following a recommendation of the Defense Science Board, the bill 
would require the Defense Department to produce a strategic plan for 
the development of manufacturing technologies. Advanced manufacturing 
processes are the key to ensuring that our defense industrial base can 
respond to the surge of production needs of our deployed forces for 
items such as body armor, vehicle armor, and jamming devices that are 
being used to defeat Improvised Explosive Devices. Manufacturing is 
also one of the keys to our overall global competitiveness.

I am pleased to note the committee bill authorizes nearly $85 million 
in additional funds for the development of advanced manufacturing 
technologies to support critical defense production capabilities.

In relation to the threat from proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction, the bill authorizes additional funding for important 
nonproliferation programs at the Department of Defense and the 
Department of Energy. This additional funding includes $100 million for 
the Cooperative Threat Reduction--CTR--Program and $87 million for 
nonproliferation programs of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration.

The bill also authorizes $50 million to support the International 
Atomic Energy Agency proposal for an international nuclear fuel bank. 
This promising idea, if successfully implemented, could remove the 
incentive for countries, such as Iran, to develop indigenous uranium 
enrichment programs for nuclear power reactor fuel. This would address 
the loophole in the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty that allows uranium 
enrichment for civilian power purposes to serve as a cover for uranium 
enrichment for weapons purposes.

In addition, S. 1547 includes a provision that would finally repeal 
all the precertifications for the CTR Program. These conditions delay 
the program annually, waste program funds, and have long outlived any 
usefulness. Senator Lugar has worked for several years now to remove 
these restrictions, and I am pleased we have been able to include this 
provision in the bill.

The additional funding for CTR would allow the program to accelerate 
and expand work into some biological materials and weapons areas that 
have become an increasing concern, and allow for the first time the CTR 
Program to address issues outside the former Soviet Union in a planned, 
nonemergency fashion. The National Nuclear Security Agency Program has 
a number of challenges with respect to the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons, materials, and technology, and much more needs to be done. The 
North Korea nuclear tests last October highlighted an area where we 
need a lot of additional work. That is the area of nuclear forensics 
and attribution. The bill authorizes additional funding to develop new 
technology to detect and identify the sources of nuclear material and 
to support the Department of Energy's Office of Intelligence efforts to 
develop a nuclear material forensic library.


The real challenge we have that faces us, an existential challenge, 
is the threat that someday a terrorist--not a nation state but a 
terrorist--might detonate a nuclear device in the United States or in 
an allied country. They would get that material from some national 
source. If we can effectively trace materials, and we know and we can 
identify where such materials come from, that goes a long way in 
helping remove the incentives for any nation state to provide these 
types of materials to terrorists. I think this is important research, 
and I am particularly pleased that we have incorporated this language 
in the legislation.

In the area of homeland defense there is a concern about the enormous 
challenge of dealing with the chemical, biological, radiological, 
nuclear, or high-yield explosives, the CBRNE incident in the United 
States. Such an incident could quickly overwhelm local and State 
emergency response capabilities. The bill contains a provision 
requiring an advisory panel to address the capabilities of the 
Department of Defense to provide support for civil authorities for 
consequence management of a domestic CBRNE incident. The panel would 
report to Congress with any findings and any particular 
recommendations.

I thank particularly Senator Dole and her staff for leading the way 
on this issue.

In the area of chemical and biological matters, the bill adds nearly 
$70 million for the Defense Department's chemical and biological 
defense program, including procurement of chemical agent detectives and 
monitors for the Army National Guard. These systems can be used for 
overseas deployments or for domestic consequence management 
initiatives.

The bill also authorizes the restoration of $36 million for the 
chemical demilitarization program and includes a sense-of-Congress 
resolution that the United States should do everything practicable to 
meet our chemical weapons destruction obligations under the Chemical 
Weapons Convention deadline of April 2012, or as soon as possible 
thereafter. This sense-of-Congress provision includes a number of 
recommendations made by the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell. 
I thank him for his contribution.

The sooner we destroy the stockpile, the sooner we will remove the 
risks to the communities around the stockpile sites throughout the 
United States.

Let me turn also to the area of special operations forces, and in 
particular language issues. The bill contains additional funding for 
the Special Operations Command, SOCOM, to meet critical language and 
cultural awareness training requirements, and for various SOCOM 
technology and training programs. All told, the bill authorizes more 
than $20 million additional funding to improve the foreign language and 
cultural awareness capabilities of our military forces.

The bill also contains a provision creating a National Foreign 
Language Coordination Council, an initiative proposed by Senator Akaka 
of Hawaii, and I thank him for this contribution. This council will 
ensure that the initial steps that the administration has taken will 
develop into an organized and concerted effort to improve the Nation's 
foreign language capabilities.

S. 1547 includes, in addition, a provision that would require the 
Government Accountability Office to review the ongoing reorganization 
of the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. The 
committee has expressed strong reservations about this reorganization, 
especially as it pertains to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict. The study 
would examine some of the specific committee concerns.

The bill also authorizes an additional $124 million to cover unfunded 
requirements of the Special Operations Command to procure Mine 
Resistant Ambush Protected, or MRAP, vehicles. This is part of a 
committee-wide $4 billion increase to ensure that U.S. military 
personnel in Iraq receive the best protection available against 
improvised explosive devices, the primary cause of injury and death to 
our personnel.

I might add, I just returned yesterday from Iraq. One of the points 
that was raised by Major General Mixon, Commander of the 25th Division, 
was the need for these MRAP vehicles. I communicated that directly to 
the Secretary of Defense. I must commend Secretary Gates for his 
aggressive leadership to ensure that these MRAP vehicles are being 
produced and being sent overseas to our forces, particularly our forces 
in Iraq. His leadership on this point is very much appreciated.

Finally, in the area of counterterrorism and counterdrug policy, the 
committee took a number of actions. On counterterrorism, the committee 
authorized the Department of Defense to provide increased rewards for 
assistance in counterterrorist operations. This is intended to provide 
additional


incentives for others to help us find and defeat terrorists. The 
committee also funded the Department's ''train and equip'' program to 
build the capacity of partner nations to conduct counterterrorism 
operations and to operate with U.S. forces in military or stability 
operations. The committee has authorized funding for this program, also 
known as section 1206, at the level authorized last year for fiscal 
years 2007 and 2008. Congress has given the Defense Department this 
authority as a pilot program to the end of this fiscal year, at which 
time Congress can evaluate the program's effectiveness.

On counterdrug policy, the committee authorized the Department to 
provide counterdrug training and equipping assistance to Mexico and the 
Dominican Republic. This would expand a list of countries to which we 
provide such assistance to these neighbors who are facing serious drug 
challenges. With regard to funding, the committee authorized an 
additional $22.5 million to boost drug interdiction efforts, especially 
in the U.S. Southern Command's area of responsibility.

Madam President, that is a summary of the highlights of the Emerging 
Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee portion of the Armed Services 
Committee bill. I urge the Senate to support the entire bill, as the 
subcommittee does.

Now I would like to turn my attention to the matter pending before 
the Senate, and that is the amendment proposed by my colleague, Senator 
Webb of Virginia.

I rise to commend him. I think this is an important amendment that 
underscores and highlights the strain that our troops are under, given 
the operational demands of efforts in both Iraq and Afghanistan and 
many places in the world. No one in this Senate--and particularly in 
this caucus, this Democratic caucus--understands on a firsthand basis 
the strain that soldiers, marines, and airmen and sailors live under 
constantly more than our colleague from Virginia, Senator Webb, who is 
a distinguished and heroic veteran of the conflict in Vietnam and 
someone to whom we look for his insight and leadership, particularly 
with respect to the welfare and the safekeeping of our military 
personnel.

Since 2003, the United States has maintained an average of 138,700 
troops in Iraq. Today we know we are at a level approaching 160,000. At 
the same time, there are approximately 25,500 military personnel in 
Afghanistan and an additional 175,000 military personnel performing 
missions in 130 countries around the world. Nearly every nondeployed 
combat brigade in the Active-Duty Army has reported that they are not 
ready to complete their assigned war missions.

Let me repeat that. Nearly every nondeployed combat brigade, those 
not in Iraq and Afghanistan, are reporting they are not ready in terms 
of personnel or equipment to complete their assigned war missions. We 
all know if they are ordered to, they will go into the fight and they 
will do well. But they are not going in with the same level of 
personnel, equipment, and in many cases training that we expected of 
them just a few short years ago. This is as a result, a direct 
consequence of the strategy being pursued by the President in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and the size limitations on our military forces.

Such a sustained operational demand has had a significant effect on 
our ground forces' ability to train, deploy, and conduct their missions 
effectively. The way we measure our military's ability to perform 
effectively is called their readiness. Readiness is composed of three 
elements: personnel, equipment, and training.

First let's look at the personnel issues. Since 2002, 1.4 million 
military troops have served in Iraq or Afghanistan. The standard ratio 
the U.S. military likes to use for deployments is 1 to 2--meaning for 
every year deployed, 2 years back at the home duty station for 
recuperation, retraining--all those things you need to restore the 
professional skill and a high degree of spirit and morale necessary for 
successful military forces.

Since the beginning of the Iraq war, however, Army brigade combat 
teams have been on a 1-to-1 ratio: 1 year deployed, 1 year back. That 
puts a huge strain on not only soldiers but the families of those 
soldiers. This ratio was further strained on April 11, 2007, when the 
Pentagon announced that all Active-Duty Army units in the Central 
Command area of responsibility, principally Iraq and Afghanistan, would 
be extended to 15-month tours. The Marine Corps has also moved to a 1-
to-1 ratio: 7 months deployed, 7 months at home station.

There is another aspect to this, and that is known as stop-loss. It 
has been imposed on 50,000 troops. What this means is that an 
individual is eligible, having served out their enlisted time, to leave 
the military forces, but they are involuntarily held behind in order to 
meet the missions of the Army because of this huge personnel crunch.

That stop-loss is affecting 50,000 individuals who have served 
honorably and well, who have made plans to return to civilian life. 
Those plans are on hold now. That is another manifestation of this 
strain our land forces are under at this moment.

The reality of this operational tempo is that many Active-Duty 
soldiers and marines are on their third or even fourth tour of duty in 
Afghanistan or Iraq. Of the Army's Active 44 combat brigades, all but 
the 1st Brigade of the Second Infantry Division, which is permanently 
based in South Korea, have served at least one term in Iraq or 
Afghanistan. Breaking that down further, 12 brigades of Army have had 1 
tour, 20 have had to 2 tours, 9 have had 3 tours, and 2 brigades are on 
their fourth tour. This is an extraordinarily aggressive operational 
tempo to subject any force to.

Although the deployment for our special operations forces are 
classified, it is known that the average weekly deployment for special 
operations forces was 61 percent higher in 2005 than in 2000. Every 
aspect of our Active Force and many of our Reserve components are being 
stressed with extraordinary contributions to the operations today that 
are worldwide.

This strain extends to our National Guard and Reserve. More than 
417,000 National Guard and Reserve, or about 80 percent of the members 
of the Guard and Reserve, have been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan 
with an average of 18 months per mobilization. Of these, more than 
84,200, or 20 percent, have been deployed more than once. Presently, 
the Army National Guard has 34 brigades; 16 are considered an 
''enhanced brigade,'' which means they are supposed to be fully manned, 
equipped, and able to deploy rapidly.

Since 2001, every enhanced brigade has been deployed overseas at 
least once, and two have already been deployed twice.

When the President announced the surge, the Pentagon was forced to 
recall to active duty several thousand Guard and Reserve personnel who 
had already served in Iraq and Afghanistan. In order to do this, the 
Pentagon had to revise its rules that limited the callup time of Guard 
members to no more than 24 months every 5 years.

With respect to this decision, the Commission on the National Guard 
and Reserve recently concluded:




 Overall, if the reserve component, including the National 


 Guard, continues its high operational tempo, current 


 indicators cast considerable doubt on the future 


 sustainability of recruiting and retention, even if financial 


 incentives continue to increase. There is a real cost to this 


 operational tempo.


The cost is not only in the immediate near term but also in the 
longer one. Our current policies overseas have overstretched our 
military. The burdens of the past few years will have consequences for 
years to come. We risk rendering our military a weakened force, and we 
want to do all we can to avoid it.

We are already seeing indications of the stress that is being borne 
by our military forces, and they are manifested in many different ways.

Yesterday the U.S. Army announced it fell short of its active-duty 
recruiting goal by 15 percent. It is the second month in a row that the 
Army's enlistment efforts have fallen short. This is in the context of 
a belated attempt, I would argue, by the administration to increase the 
overall end strength in the Army.

You have a situation now where the Army is under huge pressure. There 
is an attempt to increase the numbers overall. That attempt is being, 
at least seems to be being frustrated by the inability to recruit new 
personnel into the Army.



The Army expressed concern but repeats the fact that the Army has met 
its recruiting goals for the past 2 years. Technically, that is true. 
But a closer look shows there are some disturbing trends that may have 
long-term negative consequences. In order to meet the demands of today, 
the Army is drawing heavily on its delayed entry program, or pool of 
future recruits, which will leave it empty handed in the future as they 
try to enlist more soldiers.

The Army has also begun to lower standards in order to meet 
recruiting goals. The Army granted approximately 8,500 ''moral 
waivers'' to recruits in 2006, as compared to 2,260 of these moral 
waivers given in 1996. These waivers cover misconduct and minor 
criminal offenses. Again, the trend is not less but more in terms of 
trying to achieve recruiting goals by waiving some incidents that 
otherwise would disqualify a person from joining the Army. Waivers for 
recruits who committed felonies, for example, were up 30 percent in 
2006 from the year before.

Last year, 82 percent of Army recruits had high school diplomas. That 
is the lowest level since 1981. Only 61 percent of Army recruits scored 
above average on the service's aptitude test last year. That is the 
lowest score since 1985.

Last year, the Army would not have met its recruiting goals without 
lowering its weight standards and increasing the acceptable recruiting 
age to 42 years old. Frankly, you know, thinking back, not long ago the 
idea of actually trying to recruit people who were 42 years old, might 
have physical problems, who might have minor criminal violations, was 
considered anathema by the military as they prided themselves on the 
ability with each succeeding quarter to indeed try to raise the 
standards. But the pressure on personnel has produced these results.

Despite these lower standards, basic training graduation rates have 
increased from 82 percent in 2005 to 94 percent in 2006, leaving one to 
wonder whether the training program standards are also being modified 
so that these individuals can get through and get into the brigades 
that need support. That would have long-term, unfortunate consequences 
for the overall effectiveness of our military forces.

The Army is also using some extraordinary means to maintain retention 
rates. There are problems recruiting, but also they are making special 
efforts to keep those soldiers they have. The biggest incentive, of 
course, for retention is providing financial compensation to those who 
decide to extend. However, the level of funding we are putting toward 
keeping soldiers simply cannot be sustained. In the past 4 years the 
Army has increased the amount spent on retention bonuses from $85 
million to $735 million.

At the same time, the cost of supporting each soldier has increased 
from $75,000 in 2001 to $120,000 in 2006, because of the inducements, 
pay benefits that are appropriate but very expensive, and again raise 
the question of: How long they can be sustained?

Despite the increases in pay, the Army is still having difficulties 
with retention, particularly retaining officers. Last year the active 
Army was short 3,000 officers and it is projected this shortage will 
increase to 3,500 officers this year. The Guard and Reserve are facing 
a shortfall of almost 7,500 officers.

Army reenlistment rates for mid-grade soldiers dropped 12 percent in 
the past 2 years. According to the New York Times, more than a third of 
the West Point class of 2000 left active duty at the earliest possible 
moment, after completing their 5-year obligations.

For Special Forces, recruitment and retention are most difficult. For 
the past 6 years, 82 percent of the active-duty Special Forces 
specialties were underfilled, many with shortfalls over 10 percent.

I had a chance to sit down and have lunch with three soldiers at a 
patrol base which had only been in operation for 3 weeks, just about 2 
days ago in Iraq. All three of those soldiers were on their second or 
third tour. Two had already decided they were getting out, and a third 
had not yet decided. They have served their country magnificently. They 
have done it with great dedication, and for many different reasons are 
leaving. That is a very imprecise scientific sample, I would admit, but 
still it suggests that because of operational stress, because of the 
demands on soldiers who are performing magnificently, they are also 
thinking about their future and thinking about leaving the force rather 
than staying on for extended periods of time.

The soldiers recruited today define the quality of our Army in the 
future. Focusing on filling slots today without regard for maintaining 
high standards can have dire consequences down the road. We have 
serious challenges before us as a nation.

I have spent time talking about personnel because at the heart of 
Senator Webb's amendment is the recognition that ultimately a military 
force is about people--the soldiers, the marines, the sailors, the 
airmen, and their families. And if we keep this operational tempo, if 
we do not provide the respite, time for recuperation, what he is 
suggesting, at least an equal time out of the war zone as you spend in 
a war zone, then these personnel issues become more and more acute and 
become more damaging to the overall capability of our military force.

There is another aspect, too, of readiness. That is equipment. In 
order to meet the equipment needs in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army 
requires that active and reserve units leave behind certain essential 
items that are in short supply, including up-armored humvees and long-
range surveillance and communications systems.

This system ensures that incoming soldiers can receive 100 percent of 
the equipment, and it reduces transportation costs. But there is a 
downside. As the GAO pointed out, while this equipment approach has 
helped meet current operational needs, it has continued the cycle of 
reducing the pool of equipment available to nondeployed forces for 
responding to contingencies and training.

Forty percent of the marines' ground equipment has been deployed in 
Iraq over the past 3 years and is being used at nine times its planned 
rate. I can recall last year being in Iraq and was told just before we 
got on the helicopter that it was flying at many more times the number 
of hours that it was planned to fly in a peacetime environment. They 
assured us, of course--and they are right--that it was very well 
maintained. But the stress on the equipment is just as telling as the 
stress on personnel. We are using this equipment and overusing this 
equipment as we operate in all of those theatres of conflict.

According to Lieutenant General Blum, the Army National Guard 
presently has on hand only 30 percent of its essential equipment here 
at home, while 88 percent of the Army National Guard that is in the 
U.S. is very poorly equipped. Nearly 9 out of every 10 Army National 
Guard units in Iraq and Afghanistan have less than half the equipment 
needed to respond to a domestic crisis, and less than 45 percent of the 
Air National Guard units have the equipment they need. Again, one of 
the other major missions of the National Guard is responding to 
domestic contingencies. They are severely constrained in that regard. 
Lieutenant General Blum, who is the chief of our National Guard, 
states:




 This is the first time such a shortfall in equipment 


 readiness has occurred in the past 35 years.


He estimates that the total cost of the shortfall is about $36 
billion. In March 2007, the Commission on the National Guard and 
Reserves reported that nearly 90 percent of National Guard units are 
not ready to respond to crises at home or abroad.

The chairman of the Commission on the National Guard summed it up:




 We cannot sustain the National Guard and Reserves on the 


 course we are on.


Again, the military is doing not only everything they are asked but 
much more. But we need to ensure that they have the opportunity to rest 
and to refit. We have to ensure they have equipment that is well 
maintained and not overly used.

There is a huge shortfall in equipment. The Marine Corps has a $12 
billion equipment shortfall in 2007. The Army estimates it will need 
$12 billion annually for as long as the Iraq war continues, and for 2 
years thereafter. These significant costs will have to be borne, but 
the biggest cost, I believe, is the one that is being borne today for 
our soldiers, marines particularly, and the fact that they are 
operating in a war zone, coming back, and all too


shortly thereafter being required to go back.

There is another effect. It has an effect on training. We pride 
ourselves, as we should, as the best trained military force in the 
world, perhaps of all time. But that training cannot operate if there 
is insufficient time back at home station to do it. And that, I think, 
also is the heart of Senator Webb's amendment. He understands that one 
of the great factors that holds a unit together is the sense of skill, 
the sense that they not only know how to do the job, but they practice 
that job time and time again. They are ready for any contingency, any 
eventuality. That readiness, that sense of confidence does not come 
without spending the time at home station training. That, too, is being 
sacrificed.

I commend Senator Webb. I think from his heart and from his essence 
as a marine, he understands that our soldiers, marines, airmen deserve 
the time to prepare, to train, to regroup before they go back again. At 
a minimum, his amendment is calling for equal time at home station that 
equates to time deployed in a war zone as the minimum that we should 
provide these brave young men and women.

I hope we can support this amendment. I hope we can do it, get it 
back and send a message to our troops: We know what you are doing for 
us. We appreciate it. After serving with distinction with courage and 
great sacrifice, you deserve time to come home, to see family, to 
retrain, to rest, and to prepare again to defend the Nation.

I yield the floor.