---
---

# PRESIDENTAL VETO
## `91a8be6c4029a549fe8b05e7d9166e68`
`Mr. BROWN — 13 November 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, November voters in my State of Ohio spoke 
out for change. They spoke out for a very different and new set of 
priorities in Washington, priorities that match their own priorities 
and their own values back home.

Heeding their calls earlier this year, Congress raised the minimum 
wage, passed potentially lifesaving stem cell legislation, voted to 
expand access for health insurance to literally 4 million low-income 
children, and last week, Congress sent to the President the Labor, 
Health and Human Services bill for his signature, a bipartisan bill 
that was filled with our national priorities. That bill would increase 
funding for Head Start and Pell grants and programs that benefit our 
Nation's veterans.

Earlier today, once again, the President made it clear that this 
administration and its supporters do not share the priorities of 
America's middle class. He vetoed lifesaving stem cell legislation, he 
vetoed expanding access to children's health insurance, and he, today, 
vetoed the bipartisan bill for Head Start, to give preschool kids a 
chance. He vetoed the legislation that included Pell grants to give 
middle-class working families, working-class kids an opportunity to go 
to college without a huge, onerous burden on them when they leave 
college. And he vetoed legislation that would matter to our Nation's 
veterans.

Today's veto was a veto of middle-class families and a veto of our 
values as a nation. The Labor, Health and Human Services bill funds the 
priorities that matter most in Ohio and across the Nation--more funding 
to help low-income children get the best possible start in school, more 
funding for students hoping to realize their American dream, more 
funding for programs to help our Nation's veterans with job training, 
with college costs, and to help with the all too serious issue of 
traumatic brain injury.

The day after Veterans Day, the day set aside to honor our Nation's 
veterans, the President vetoed legislation that would benefit those who 
have sacrificed so much for our great country. That, Mr. President, is 
unacceptable.

Yesterday, in Cleveland, at the Wade Park Veterans Hospital, I spent 
the afternoon with veterans from northeast Ohio, listening to them and 
their concerns. I learned that they need more, not less, assistance 
from the Federal Government. I heard from a former Ohio National 
Guardsman living in Jefferson, OH, not far from Ashtabula. Before being 
deployed to Iraq, he was an engineer and his wife was the vice 
president of a local company. After being injured in Iraq by an IED, he 
returned home suffering from a traumatic brain injury, a spinal cord 
injury, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Unable to work full time 
because of his injuries, this former National Guardsman, who worked 
full time before he left, now had to rely on disability compensation to 
support his family. His wife Julie had to leave her job to care full 
time for her child and for her husband. His care requires four trips 
weekly to the nearest VA hospital, a trip of about 110 miles each way.

I heard from a reservist, CPL Anthony Niederiter, of Euclid, OH, who 
was deployed to Iraq in 2005. Corporal Niederiter shared stories about 
the need for a better system that helps our military men and women 
return to civilian life after serving our country. The confusing 
transition process has caused veteran after veteran to miss filing 
deadlines for health benefits and educational opportunities.

One veteran, one soldier, told me after he left the military, he 
applied for dental benefits 32 or 33 days after he left the military. 
But he found out if you don't apply within 30 days, they are not 
available. Nobody told him that. Others have been denied educational 
benefits because they didn't follow the right rules because nobody told 
them that when they left the military.

Too many commanding officers, after these troops are used up and of 
no value anymore to the military, just wash their hands of them and 
look to the next class of military recruits they are going to send off 
to war, not informing those who are leaving, those who have served 
their country--frankly, not caring enough to make sure those veterans, 
those soldiers leaving the Armed Forces have been notified and told of 
their rights and the benefits they are able to receive--education, 
health care, and the like.

I heard from Dr. John Schupp, a Cleveland State University professor, 
who emphasized the importance of doing more, not less, for our 
veterans. Dr. Schupp founded the SERV Program, a two-semester program 
at Cleveland State University designed just for veterans. The program 
helps veterans apply for GI bill benefits, offers veterans-only classes 
that help ease the transition back into the classroom for many veterans 
who have not been in a classroom for 6, 8, 10 years or longer. He works 
with veterans to navigate VA issues and offers a veteran-to-veteran 
mentoring program.

Mr. President, we need more programs like this. Dr. Schupp's 
involvement, his brainchild, his program--much of this should be done 
by the Department of Defense before our soldiers, our marines, and our 
sailors leave government or military service. Dr. Schupp has taken up 
the slack, frankly, for much that hasn't been done. We need more 
programs like this, not just in Ohio but across our great country.

We need more Federal investment in our Nation's veterans. We must 
continue to honor our heroes from World War II and Korea and Vietnam, 
while finding ways to care for the new generation of veterans returning 
from Afghanistan and Iraq--and Kosovo, as one of the veterans came from 
yesterday. As more and more veterans return from these overseas 
engagements, especially from Afghanistan and Iraq, we must ensure that 
this growing group has access to the best care and the best benefits 
available. They have earned them.

Congress cannot simply wait to correct problems that arise. We can, 
we must anticipate those problems and address them now, not later. 
Providing care and support for Ohio's veterans is a moral obligation. 
Instead of vetoes, our veterans deserve, from their Government, the 
support they have earned. Congress can start by overriding the veto of 
the Labor-Health and Human Services appropriations bill.

I strongly encourage my colleagues to stand up for middle-class 
families, stand up for our communities, stand up for our workers, and 
to stand up, importantly, for our Nation's veterans. I strongly 
encourage my colleagues to override this veto.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.