# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2009--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `91ab75d3a17c31fba32257ffc5ae3f65`
`Mr. CASEY — 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the unemployment 
insurance issue and the bill that is before the Senate.

Sometimes in a bad economy and when we have so many families, so many 
communities that are hurting, maybe the best way to convey information, 
other than a personal story, is in the few words of a headline. 
Unfortunately, in Pennsylvania today--and I am sure this is true in 
many communities throughout the country--the headlines in just the last 
24 or 48 hours have told the whole story or at least most of the story.

This is a headline you may not be able to see clearly, so I will read 
it. This is from the Times Tribune, my hometown newspaper. This was 
from yesterday: ''Jobless rate hits 9.5 percent.'' The subhead says: 
''Regional unemployment reaches highest level since December '93; 
highest in 15 years in northeastern Pennsylvania.'' Then we go to 
southwestern Pennsylvania--Pittsburgh and that region, some 5 hours by 
car from where I live--and this is what the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
said on the same day, October 27: ''Region's jobless rate hits 23-year 
high in southwestern Pennsylvania.'' That is a part of our State that 
has been hit hard over a couple of decades now by the loss of 
manufacturing jobs and steel jobs. We know that tragic story. So a 
corner of the State that was doing much better than the national 
average is having its numbers go up. Northeastern Pennsylvania is at a 
15-year high and southwestern Pennsylvania is at a 23-year high in 
unemployment.

But this last one might tell the story even more graphically for 
those who have a sense of the Pennsylvania economy. This is from the 
Harrisburg Patriot-News. This is from our capital city, Harrisburg, but 
it is in a region of the State that is more south central Pennsylvania, 
which has had a lower unemployment rate historically and more recently. 
''Jobless rate in region hits 26-year high.'' The subhead reads as 
follows: The midstate is faring better than the State as a whole and 
the Nation, but we are still hurting. Professional and retail jobs 
disappeared while health care and education held steady. But other than 
those two sectors, all the other sectors are hurting--Dauphin County, 
8.4 percent--right where the capital is; Cumberland County, 7.2 
percent; Lebanon County 7.4; Perry County, 8.8.

For some parts of our country, one might say: Well, 7.2 or 7.4 sounds 
a lot better than a lot of communities. But you have to put it in the 
context of this region of Pennsylvania, where the unemployment rate is 
usually at 4 or 5 percent. So we are way above that now, and it is in 
places where we don't expect it.

Unfortunately, in Pennsylvania, as I am sure is true in many States--
in the State of Florida, the Presiding Officer's home State, I am sure 
he sees this--this isn't limited to big urban areas. Philadelphia has a 
lot of unemployment, but there are small rural counties in northwestern 
Pennsylvania and now we see even in south central Pennsylvania that are 
hurting. And in some places, it is not just 7.2 or 7.4 but 11 and 12 
and 13 percent in a very small area in terms of population.

So these job figures and these headlines tell the whole story. And we 
know now, just as we knew weeks ago, that the Senate has stalled too 
long on providing an extension of unemployment insurance. Think of it 
this way: Each day, 7,000 Americans lose their unemployment benefits. 
Over 23,000 Pennsylvanians have lost unemployment insurance just 
through the month of September, and that number is expected to go to 
over 60,000 by the end of the year. Pennsylvania ranks fifth highest in 
the Nation with respect to the number of persons who will lose 
unemployment benefits by the end of the year if the Senate and the 
Congress overall do not act.

As I mentioned before, our statewide unemployment rate is about 8.8 
percent. Someone living in another State might say: Well, that is not 
nearly as high as this State or another State. But 8.8 percent in 
Pennsylvania means roughly half a million people are unemployed. And 
there are some people here in the Senate who say: Well, we shouldn't 
act on this now. We don't have time for it. We don't think it is 
important to act. Well, I would like to have them say that to the half 
million people in Pennsylvania who are out of work or the tens of 
thousands right now who are losing their unemployment insurance month 
after month, week after week.

The legislation that is before the Senate would provide needed relief 
by extending benefits to all States by 14 weeks. At the expiration of 
those 14 weeks, if a State has an unemployment rate of higher than 8.5 
percent, it would receive an additional 6 weeks of unemployment 
insurance benefits. So it contemplates an extension for everyone by 14 
weeks and then additional help if a State is above the 8.5-percent 
level.

I have to commend the work of our majority leader, Senator Reid, who 
has made this a central focus, as it should be, in the midst of a 
recession.



One of the biggest challenges we face in the midst of a recovery--
even the beginnings of a recovery--is that you don't see the 
unemployment rate get much better. You don't see the jobless number 
come down. The unemployment figure is often the last number to come 
down during a recession. But for an economist or a Senator or anyone 
else to say: Well, the unemployment rate is a lagging indicator, that 
is not much comfort to someone who is out of work, and it is not a very 
good reflection on the urgency of the problem. So we have to be 
concerned with the unemployment rate even in what we hope is the 
beginning of a recovery.

Even though our economy has shown promising signs of a recovery, 
which I just spoke of, the rate of unemployment is far too high. In 
order to boost our economy, passage of this unemployment extension 
would benefit so many communities.

Another way to look at this is not just from the vantage point of the 
most important thing here, which is helping those who are unemployed, 
though that is reason alone to get this passed, but also what we will 
get for the rest of our economy, the kind of positive impact it has. It 
certainly has a positive impact for someone out of work--that is 
obvious--for his or her family and their community. But there is 
another way to measure it as well. Moody's chief economist, Mark Zandi, 
who is not a partisan either way, is a skilled and capable economist 
who says that every dollar spent in unemployment benefits generates 
$1.63 in new demand. So if you spend $1, you get $1.63 back. There is a 
return on investment for the overall economy when we target resources 
for unemployment insurance.

The Congressional Budget Office, quoted widely in our health care 
debate, has also stated that unemployment benefits are one of the most 
cost-effective forms of economic stimulus. I mentioned some of the 
rates throughout Pennsylvania, throughout both urban and rural areas. 
All of these communities--whether a small town, a rural area, suburban 
or urban area--would benefit by keeping our citizens at work and not 
facing the threat of joblessness. I think it also helps our overall 
economy.

We have tried to move the unemployment extension through the Senate 
two times by the so-called unanimous consent process. A lot of things 
move through the Senate by agreement on both sides. So you would think 
that would be the case in the midst of a recession, in the midst of 
these unemployment numbers, in the midst of week after week of bad news 
on jobs. And we know the unemployment rate doesn't choose between a 
Republican area and a Democratic area. The unemployment rate does not 
have a Republican or Democratic flavor to it. Everyone is out of work 
no matter who they are or of what party. But what has happened? We 
tried to move the unemployment extension through the Senate by 
unanimous consent, and the Republican side of the Senate blocked it 
both times. We could have had this done weeks ago but for one reason: 
the Senate Republicans blocking the unemployment extension going 
forward.

It is tragically and I think painfully ironic that we are having to 
face this difficulty with our Republican colleagues because I keep 
hearing the following argument in the context of another topic. We are 
having an argument as to what our President should do with regard to 
our policy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We hear people on the other 
side of the aisle, and pundits around Washington, saying the President 
has to decide on Afghanistan right now. They were saying that 3 or 4 or 
5 weeks ago. They didn't want to give him more than a few days to 
decide on what our policy should be. I have a strong disagreement with 
that. I think when you are committing men and women on a field of 
battle, you ought to have a policy that you have thought about and 
where all the options are analyzed and reviewed thoroughly, completely, 
and with the kind of scrutiny we should apply to that question. Some 
Republican Members of the Senate wanted to move very quickly and wanted 
to have the President decide in a matter of days--not weeks but days. 
They wanted him to make up his mind on Afghanistan in days. Yet when we 
went to them with the sense of urgency about unemployment insurance and 
an extension of that, where you can literally document the impact of a 
delay on real people's lives and real jobs and real communities across 
our country, many of them in Republican communities, what do we hear 
from the other side? No, we don't think we want to do that right now.


So they want what I think is a kind of dangerous and, I would argue, 
irresponsible speed on a decision about war, the grave question of war, 
but they want to delay and block and be an impediment to an extension 
of unemployment insurance, which is an urgent problem. We can document 
exactly the number of people who are running out of their unemployment 
insurance. We can document the exact number of people who are out of 
work in a State or in a community.

So I think they have it backward. I think when it comes to a question 
such as the President is facing regarding Afghanistan, he should take a 
couple of weeks to analyze it, and thank goodness he has. But on 
unemployment insurance, I think it is a much simpler question: We are 
either going to extend it now and help people who are out of work or 
not. And I think it is long overdue for the Republicans in the Senate 
to release their hold or their blockade of this.

So we tried on October 8, and now it is late October. Over 140,000 
Americans have lost their coverage in the past 20 days--140,000 
Americans--because we have people on the Republican side of the aisle 
blocking what we have tried to do. Thousands of Americans have 
withdrawn their last dollars from their savings accounts over the past 
20 days. Thousands of Americans have been wondering for the past 20 
days how they are going to provide a meal for their families or keep a 
roof over their head, pay the mortgage, pay the bill for their 
electricity, or make an investment in their children's future.

Every day for the last several weeks, Jackie, from Monaca, PA, out in 
southwestern Pennsylvania, which, as I said, is suffering a 23-year 
high in unemployment, has called our office. She is wondering whether 
we are going to pass a bill. Her benefits expired at the end of 
September. So this isn't theoretical to Jackie and to her family and to 
many people like her. She used the last of her savings to pay her rent 
at the beginning of the month and now is struggling to get by on 
nothing--nothing right now. She waits every day to see if we will 
provide her with just a lifeline--not some handout, not some promise, 
but a lifeline to get from here to there, to get her over the bridge, 
so to speak, from where she is now to where she hopes to be in a couple 
of weeks or months. She looks for work and she tries to keep up with 
her bills, but her story is similar to that of thousands of others who 
have been directly impacted by the Senate Republican blockade. It is 
vitally important we pass this legislation right now.


Finally, I will conclude with a comment about health care in the 
context of the unemployment rate and our economy. In addition to the 
obvious problem with unemployment insurance benefits that we should 
pass and get done, a lot of people are losing their health care at the 
same time. The recovery bill, the bill we passed and the President 
signed back in March, the Recovery and Reinvestment Act, provided a 
subsidy of 65 percent, where an individual pays 35 percent of the 
coverage for so-called COBRA coverage for those who were involuntarily 
terminated from their job. This subsidy only lasted for 9 months and is 
expected to expire at the end of the year.

Following passage of an unemployment insurance extension, we should 
also, in addition, push for an extension of the COBRA health care 
subsidy. If we pass an unemployment insurance extension and do not 
provide an extension of COBRA health care subsidy, Americans who are 
out of work will have to decide between using their unemployment check 
to pay for a drastic increase in their monthly premium or no health 
insurance, no health coverage at all. I urge the Senate to swiftly pass 
not only the unemployment extension but, when we get to it in the next 
couple days or weeks, an immediate extension of COBRA and health care.

We have to do both to protect people from the ravages of this economy 
which, as I said before, knows no party, which is not a partisan issue. 
It is an issue that affects all of America, urban


and rural, big city and small town. We have to continue to push hard. I 
urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the Senate 
Republicans, to allow this to go forward because, if they do not, I 
think their own constituents are going to be as harmed as many of my 
constituents are, in both parties.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.