---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `91b2043e5c9de666c5dd1ba8f4c3a57c`
`Mr. FILNER — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. FILNER. Yes, Mr. Poe, war is hard. I've got news for you: peace 
is harder. Talk to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Talk to Nelson Mandela. 
Peace is harder. Peace is really hard. I've heard Mr. Poe's words: 
Victory is close. What message are we sending to our troops? The Alamo 
as a metaphor for this? Come on, Mr. Poe. And Mr. Poe started with, 
''This is about our troops.'' That's exactly right: this is about our 
troops.

I would like to thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Kucinich) for 
allowing us to have a debate. Here we have spent hundreds of billions 
of dollars, and we've had no real debate. So I thank him for bringing 
this resolution and allowing us to debate. We need a debate in this 
democracy so that everybody understands the costs, the costs of war, 
the costs of not going to war. The material costs, the human costs. 
This is about our troops. I agree with Mr. Poe.

You know, I have been to Iraq and Afghanistan. I have met these 
incredible young men and women who are fighting this war. As Mr. Poe 
suggested, they are incredible. It's the policymakers I am worried 
about. We report as killed in our two wars almost 1,000 in Afghanistan 
and a little over 4,000 in Iraq. We report around 40,000 casualties. 
Let me tell you, I am chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee in 
this Congress. We have had


almost 1 million veterans from these wars show up at the VA for 
injuries received during the war, service-related injuries, hundreds 
and hundreds of thousands. This is not just a mathematical error by the 
Department of Defense. This is a deliberate attempt to keep the cost of 
war from our people.

We've got hundreds of thousands of people with post-traumatic stress 
disorder, hundreds of thousands with traumatic brain injury, all of 
whom were undiagnosed when they left the battle front. The military 
doesn't want to know about these injuries. They don't want to tell the 
American people about these injuries. This kind of war produces those 
injuries. I didn't hear that from Mr. Poe. What do we tell the mom? We 
tell the mom that we shouldn't be sending her child there because of 
the nature of the war. There is no ''Victory is close.'' I would like 
to have someone define for me what that victory is.

As I said, we have had almost 1 million veterans from these wars 
already come to the VA. The suicide rate among active duty troops in 
Iraq and Afghanistan is higher than the rate in Vietnam, which was the 
highest that we've ever had as Americans. These are our children. These 
are our children. They come home with these invisible wounds. They may 
kill themselves from the demons that they got from this war. A third of 
those who had been diagnosed with PTSD--and that's only a small 
fraction of those who actually have it--have committed felonies in this 
Nation, of which several hundred were homicides, usually of their own 
family members. These kids did not come home to kill their spouses or 
their children, but they were so wounded, and they were not taken care 
of by our people who sent them there. We bring them home, and we say, 
Okay, you're on your own. And then what do we have? Suicides, 
homicides.

This war is tearing apart those who have taken part in it. It will 
have the same influence that the Vietnam War had on our civilian 
society. Half of the homeless on the streets tonight are Vietnam vets.