---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `91bb305a34ab84ba4f23c399bb14b6f2`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my good 
friend from the Garden State.

It is interesting, Mr. Speaker, and I will point to this L.A. Times 
editorial since now the L.A. Times is an authority on this issue. The 
newspaper said it reluctantly endorsed the U.S. troop surge when it 
began. But at the bottom it says: ''We feel that the time has come now 
for us to leave Iraq.'' That is the L.A. Times.

I also want to point out another thing as we talk about this 
redeployment, a responsible redeployment, the act that is up before the 
House right now that we are considering. I just want to make sure the 
Members of the House know exactly what they are doing, because when 
they get back home in their districts and they start talking to the 
heroes and sheroes that have been deployed two to three times and talk 
to Americans about why they can't meet the needs that they have to meet 
here domestically, I want them to reflect on this:

I want them to look at the fact that you have $120 billion a year 
that we are spending in Iraq; per month, $10 billion; per week, $2.3 
billion; per day, $329 million; per hour, $13 million since we have 
been here on the floor, Mr. Speaker; per minute, which I only have two, 
$228,000. And you have to look at per second, as I take a breath, 
$3,816.

Also, I want to point out to the Members here, Mr. Speaker, the last 
time we passed a measure on behalf of the men and women in harm's way 
and to send the message to the Iraqi Government, they can go on 
vacation and they don't meet and they don't do the things that we have 
put forth as benchmarks that they have to meet in a bipartisan way, 
then why should we reward bad behavior?

And I have this picture here, Mr. Speaker, of when the President 
called a lot of the Members of the minority here in this House down to 
the White House and they had a meeting and the President came out, 
mikes and everything, not one Democrat here, saying that we stand with 
the President, this is what the minority president said: ''We stand 
with the President in not overriding his veto.''

I want to know, Mr. Speaker, how many times the Members of the 
minority party are going to go down to the White House and stand on the 
schoolhouse door of allowing us to move in a new direction. The 
American people are way ahead of us on this issue.

I am so happy that Chairman Skelton has brought this to the House 
floor. I am hoping that we have a bipartisan vote on it. I am 
encouraging every Member of the House, and I do mean every Member of 
the House, even my good friends on the other side of the aisle, to vote 
for a commonsense new direction. And I think that is very, very 
important as we look at this responsible redeployment act.

Once again, it takes courage to be a Member of the House. It takes 
also leadership to be a Member of the House. And some of us have to go 
see the wizard and pick up both of those values that we all hold and 
that we should hold. So I encourage you to cast an affirmative vote on 
the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.