---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `91bb43dd8a82194b3c72480469087767`
`Mr. HODES — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. I thank you for those comments. Coming from someone with 
the kind of military experience you have, they ring especially true.

You know, often on the floor of the House of Representatives, what we 
have experienced in our first 6 months is political rhetoric that masks 
some of the deeper, more complex and nuanced issues that really are 
worthy of discussion in deciding as a nation how to move forward.

It is really what the American people have been asking, not only of 
us here in Congress, but especially of their President, their Vice 
President, the leaders in the White House, who have been responsible 
for this unfortunate failed policy. And what the American people, who 
are a generous, compassionate and patient people, have been deeply 
yearning for, is a real discussion of the kind we are having now, that 
points the way towards American security. Because, as you point out, we 
have created, unfortunately, more instability in the Middle East.



And now, however we got into it, we have to make the best of a bad 
situation because we are all in this together. That is the spirit with 
which we as Democrats are trying to talk to our Republican colleagues.

There has been a lot of name-calling on the floor. They call us cut-
and-run and say this and that and the other thing. But as you have so 
well put, we are talking about a strategy. Strategy is the key word. It 
means a strategic redeployment to protect American security.

If we just step back for a moment, I want to share some of the 
thoughts of a very esteemed retired general, General William Odom, who 
addressed us recently about the situation there. He said, Look at the 
situation we are in. Our troops are in a sea of hostile people, 
approximately 7 million in number, and growing in hostility every day. 
Fully 80 percent of the Iraqis want the occupation to end. Fifty 
percent of them think badly enough about us that they would sanction 
violence against Americans.

We are surrounded in Iraq by unfriendly nations, Iran and Syria. We 
have problems with Hezbollah in Lebanon; Hamas and new issues for 
Israel. Israel's security has been threatened by the instability in the 
Middle East because, unfortunately, our misadventure in Iraq has 
emboldened Islamic jihadists in the region. It has not made us more 
safe, but has grown the Islam jihad movement. It has been the best 
recruiting device they have had.

So he understands the importance of what to do when American troops 
find themselves caught in the middle of not one civil war, as he put 
it, but in the middle of multiple civil wars. He addressed the concern, 
which is a valid concern on the part of all of us, of what will happen 
in Iraq when we redeploy in a planned strategic way. People are 
concerned. What will we leave?

We have a government at this point which is essentially not working. 
It is hardly a unity government. They can't get themselves together to 
have their army stand up or get the ministers to work together. They 
seem to have fallen into tribal allegiances.

But what General Odom pointed out in recent discussions with experts 
in the region, including generals of countries whom we have worked 
with, they have pointed out that it is highly likely that when we leave 
Iraq, when the American troop presence, which is the cause, in their 
view, of much instability, is gone, that Iraq--it is not going to be 
great, but the kind of cataclysmic events that people are predicting, 
in their view, won't occur because the Iraqis have had a long history 
of tribal conflict even within the Saddam Hussein regime. And 
remembering that Iraq was forged in 1916 out of separate tribal 
entities by the British and French in a grand deal, there has been an 
undercurrent of these tensions, which the tribal leaders, they believe, 
are going to work out.

Personally, I believe ultimately there will be a political solution 
in Iraq that the Iraqis must determine for themselves. Our military 
presence cannot impose a political solution; only they can. In my view, 
based on the research that I have done and based on discussions with 
experts in the region, I think it is highly likely that Iraq will 
devolve into some kind of autonomous regions, perhaps three autonomous 
regions. In Kurdistan, one representing the Sunnis, one representing 
the Shia, who then use the central government for certain federal 
purposes, but one which recognizes, as their constitution wants to go 
to, that a political solution, trying to hold together this government 
which isn't working, won't work for them, and they will find once we 
are gone and they no longer have us as a crutch, they will find the 
political solution they need to carry their country forward.

And if we, as a true world leader, redeploy strategically and wisely 
and then use our diplomatic resources to bring neighbors, allies, 
friends, reunite a real coalition in the world to help, we may be able 
to have the kind of result of a stable state that will help us not only 
in the region but around the world. And it is what the American people 
want.

It is this kind of discussion and this kind of thinking that the 
President ought to be having with his generals. I hope that as we sit 
here tonight talking about Iraq, and as we prepare to return home for 
July 4, I hope that President Bush is in the White House and I hope he 
is talking to his generals about what the plan ought to be for a 
strategic redeployment. But I fear that he is not doing that at this 
point.

Mr. Altmire, why don't I throw it over to you.