# None
## `91c5515ddec6ea1d1a157ce7850d2224`
`Mr. PAUL — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Madam Speaker, today I am introducing a bill to establish a 
sunset for the 2002 Authorization for the Use of Force Against Iraq 
(P.L. 107-243). There are several active pieces of legislation that 
would rescind the authorization to use force against Iraq, but the 
approach of this legislation is quite different. This legislation would 
sunset the original authorization 6 months after it is enacted, which 
would give Congress plenty of time to consider anew the authority for 
Iraq.

The rationale for this sunset is that according to the 2002 
authorization for Iraq, the President was authorized to use military 
force against Iraq to achieve the following two specific objectives 
only: ''( 1) defend the national security of the United States against 
the continuing threat posed by Iraq; and (2) enforce all relevant 
United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq.''

It should be obvious to both supporters and critics of our military 
action in Iraq that our military has achieved both legal objectives. 
Our military quickly removed the regime of Saddam Hussein, against whom 
the United Nations resolutions were targeted. And a government has been 
elected in post-Saddam Iraq that has met with U.S. approval, fulfilling 
the first objective of the authorization.

With both objectives of the original authorization completely 
satisfied, Congress has a constitutional obligation to revisit this 
issue and provide needed oversight and policy guidance. We ignore this 
obligation at risk to the United States and, very importantly, to our 
soldiers in harm's way in Iraq.

Unlike other proposals, this bill does not criticize the President's 
handling of the war. It does not cut off funds for the troops. Nor does 
this bill set a timetable for our withdrawal. I strongly believe that 
this legislation will enjoy broad support among both those in favor of 
our action in Iraq and those who favor ending the war, and I am 
encouraged by the bipartisan support I have received when seeking 
original cosponsors. Congress is obligated to consider anew the 
authority for Iraq sooner rather than later and I hope more of my 
colleagues will join me as cosponsors of this legislation.
