# ARMED FORCES DAY HONORING FRANK WOODRUFF BUCKLES, AN AMERICAN HERO
## `91c6cedcda759e70add8f86b7b8f60d3`
`Mr. MARTINEZ — 17 May 2007`

---


Mr. MARTINEZ. Mr. President, this Saturday, May 19, is Armed Forces 
Day. Celebrated annually on the third Saturday of May, this is a day 
for all of us as Americans to rally around our military members--
wherever they are serving--and thank them for their patriotism and duty 
to country. This day has a long and proud history. With President Harry 
S. Truman leading the effort for this holiday, it came to fruition just 
a few years after the close of World War II. It was at the end of 
August 1949 that Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson announced the 
creation of Armed Forces Day to replace separate days of celebration 
for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. While the roots of 
this celebration may have resulted from the unification of the Armed 
Forces under the Department of Defense, it serves much more than a 
consolidative purpose.

The account of the first Armed Forces Day is particularly riveting--
as recorded in a page on the official web site of the Department of 
Defense: ''The first Armed Forces Day was celebrated by parades, open 
houses, receptions, and air shows. In Washington DC, 10,000 troops of 
all branches of the military, cadets, and veterans marched pas[t] the 
President and his party. In Berlin, 1,000 U.S. troops paraded for the 
German citizens at Templehof Airfield. In New York City, an estimated 
33,000 participants initiated Armed Forces Day ''under an air cover of 
250 military planes of all types.'' In the harbors across the country 
were the famed mothballed ''battlewagons'' of World War II, the 
Missouri, the New Jersey, the North Carolina, and the Iowa, all open 
for public inspection. Precision flying teams dominated the skies as 
tracking radar [was] exhibited on the ground. All across the country, 
the American people joined together to honor the Armed Forces.''

It is that last sentence that stands out to me: ''All across the 
country, the American people joined together to honor the Armed 
Forces.'' Let this Saturday be another one of those days. Wherever our 
brave military men and women are this Saturday--be it on the front 
lines in Iraq or Afghanistan, stationed along the DMZ that divides 
North and South Korea, on the open sea across the globe, or training in 
the great American skies above, let's honor them. Let us not forget 
their service and dedication to protecting our freedoms and defending 
our way of life this Saturday and every Saturday, this day and every 
day.

To all our brave men and women in uniform and your families: thank 
you for your selfless service and sacrifice.
