---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `91c7cc921deb8bb2b284094a6e6a734a`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Thank you, Mr. Hunter. I certainly add my own 
feelings toward the words that you just spoke on behalf of Charlie 
Norwood. None of us know when we have to step from this floor for the 
last time. This man, while he was here, maintained a sense of honor. He 
was always committed to doing those things that would bring better hope 
to future generations. He was honorable among us, and we can certainly 
salute that kind of brotherhood that he represented to all of us.

I certainly pass along my own condolences and also congratulations to 
his family, because in a sense Charlie Norwood's dreams were fulfilled 
in that he dreamed to be a statesman, and he certainly rose to that 
occasion in every way.

I suppose it is in a sense a little bit of a statement to all of us 
that the brief moments that we have here should be spent debating those 
things that would truly make a difference, not only for this 
generation, but for whatever generations remain to America.

Madam Speaker, tonight I think that is what I would like to talk 
about. There is an old Indian Iroquois quote that says that the secret 
to the universe is in the true naming of things, and as we debate 
tonight, it is easy for us to see each other as the opposition or as 
the enemy.

I think tonight, if all else should fail us, we must consider who the 
real enemy here is. This one is a little different than those that we 
faced in the past, because even though there are parallels, this is an 
ideology. This is not just a group of people that we face in Islamic 
jihadism. It is an ideology that I believe has the seeds of danger in 
it for the entire human family.

I think it becomes very, very important for us all to understand that 
one thing, because in a sense right now the battle that goes on across 
the world related to terrorism is a battle between those who are deeply 
committed with their lives to the destruction of the Western World on 
one side of the equation, and on the other side of the equation the 
opposition is largely asleep, and I think that nothing represents a 
greater danger to us than not only knowing what we face, but being 
completely oblivious to its potential.

I believe that the ideology of jihad has the ability and even the 
propensity to germinate and one day threaten the entire human family. 
And even though America is engaged in some type of fight against 
terrorism and jihadism in nearly 70 countries across the world, whether 
we realize it or not, in the eyes of the leaders of jihad, Iraq is the 
frontline of that conflict, and it becomes profoundly important that we 
recognize it from their perspective, because in any ideology, one must 
understand that to grow, it must somehow take root and resonate in the 
hearts of the potential recruits.

One of the things that causes this ideology to grow is a sense of 
victory on the battlefield, and leader after leader in the jihadist 
movement have said that Iraq is critical to the survival of their 
ultimate goal.



I know that we have faced dangerous ideologies before. There are a 
lot of people who have parents and family members that faced the Nazis 
down in World War II, and yet just a cursory glance at history helps us 
understand that the parallel here is real.

There was a time when the Nazis were just a bunch of lunatics riding 
bicycles across France, and nobody paid much attention to them. They 
spewed a hate and a sense of superiority over their fellow human beings 
and even a sense of being willing to subordinate the innocent life of 
others for their own ideology. We did not pay much attention to them 
until it began to grow and the fires of this ideology began to spread 
across Europe.

In the final analysis, the Western world and people of freedom did 
not wake up until this thing had become a monster, and when we finally 
did engage it, the ensuing war was so difficult and so horrible that at 
the end of the day, 50 million people had died.

I will just say this, Madam Speaker, Winston Churchill warned us in a 
way that I think is pretty profound. He said, If you will not fight, 
then you can easily win without bloodshed. If you will not fight, then 
your victory will be sure and not too costly. You may come to the 
moment when you will have to fight and all the odds against you with 
only a precarious chance of survival. There may even be a worse moment. 
You may have to fight when there is no hope for victory because it is 
still better to perish than to live as slaves.

I submit in the ideology that we face tonight that is the equation 
that is before us.