---
---

# None
## `91cb956e4e72b4ffbab0e30add264be8`
`Mr. McCAIN — 13 July 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. I will quote in part from this article, which I think is 
worthy of my colleagues' examination. It is by Mr. R. Jeffrey Smith, a 
person who is widely respected on defense issues. He says:




 The United States' top fighter jet, the Lockheed Martin F-


 22, has recently required more than 30 hours of maintenance 


 for every hour in the skies, pushing its hourly cost of 


 flying to more than $44,000, a far higher figure than for the 


 warplane it replaces, confidential Pentagon test results 


 show.


It goes on to talk about some of the problems it has experienced. It 
goes on to say:




 While most aircraft fleets become easier and less costly to 


 repair as they mature, key maintenance trends for the F-22 


 have been negative in recent years, and on average from 


 October last year to this May, just 55 percent of the 


 deployed F-22 fleet has been available to fulfill missions 


 guarding U.S. airspace, the Defense Department acknowledged 


 this week. The F-22 has never been flown over Iraq or 


 Afghanistan.


I point out that the cost per aircraft is around $350 million, 
depending on how you calculate it. We have a $350 million airplane 
investment by the taxpayers of America that has never been flown over 
Iraq or Afghanistan, the two conflicts in which we are engaged. We know 
for a fact that much older aircraft--the A-10, the F-18, many of the 
older aircraft are flying routine missions, plus our newest kinds of 
technology in drone and predator aircraft.




 Sensitive information about troubles with the nation's 


 foremost air-defense fighter is emerging in the midst of a 


 fight between the Obama administration and the Democrat-


 controlled Congress--


I point out to my colleagues, the Democrat-controlled Congress--



 over whether the program should be halted next year at 187 


 planes, far short of what the Air Force and the F-22's 


 contractors around the country had anticipated.


There are divisions over in the Pentagon.

It says:




 Votes by the House and Senate armed services committees 


 last month to spend $369 million to $1.75 billion more to 


 keep the F-22 production line open were propelled by mixed 


 messages from the Air Force--including a quiet campaign for 


 the plane that includes snazzy new Lockheed videos for 


 lawmakers--


I do not think that the chairman or I received the snazzy new 
Lockheed video--



 and intense political support for States where the F-22's 


 components are made. The full House ratified the vote on June 


 25, and the Senate is scheduled to begin consideration.



 After deciding to cancel the program, Defense Secretary 


 Robert Gates called the $65 billion fleet a ''niche'' silver-


 bullet solution to a major aerial war threat that remains 


 distant. He described the House's decision as ''a big 


 problem,'' and has promised to urge President Obama to veto 


 the bill.



 The administration's position is supported by military 


 reform groups.


In the article it talks about pilots who have flown the aircraft who 
talk about its impressive capability. I do not disagree with those 
assessments at all. Its troubles have been detailed in dozens of 
Government Accountability Office reports and Pentagon audits. But 
Pierre Sprey, a key designer in the 1970s and 1980s of the F-16 and A-
10 warplanes, said that from the beginning, the Air Force designed it 
to be ''too big to fail, that is, to be cancelation proof.''

Lockheed farmed out more than 1,000 subcontracts to vendors in more 
than 40 States. I would like to repeat that. Lockheed farmed out more 
than 1,000 subcontracts to vendors in more than 40 States. And Sprey, 
now a prominent critic of the plane, said that by the time skeptics 
''could point out the failed tests, the combat flaws, and the exploding 
costs, most Congressmen were already defending their contractors' 
revenues.''

John Hamre--this is an individual known to all of us--a very capable 
individual, who was on the Senate Armed Service Committee staff and 
served in previous administrations, was the Pentagon Comptroller from 
1993 to 1997. He says the Department approved the plane with a budget 
it knew was too low because projecting the real costs would have been 
politically unpalatable on Capitol Hill.




 We knew that the F-22 was going to cost more than the Air 


 Force thought it was going to cost and we budgeted the lower 


 number, and I was there [Hamre told the Senate Armed Services 


 committee in April.]


''I am not proud of it,'' Hamre added in a recent interview, which I 
think is a mark of the quality of the individual, that he admits he 
made a mistake, as we all do from some time to another.

So I do not want to quote and spend too much time on this article 
because it is a long one. But it is an important item for our 
colleagues to consider when we consider the vote on this amendment.




 The cancellation decision got public support from the Air 


 Force's top two civilian and military leaders who said the F-


 22 was not a top priority in a constrained budget. But the 


 leaders' message was muddied in a June 9 letter from Air 


 Combat Commander John D. W. Corley to Chambliss [that is 


 Senator Chambliss, the Senator from Georgia] that said 


 halting production would put ''execution of our national 


 military strategy at high risk in the near to mid-term.'' The 


 right size of the fleet, he said, is 381.


So it is enough to say that given our overall joint capability to 
obtain air superiority, stopping the F-22 at 187 fighters is vital to 
achieving the correct balance.

I have discussed already the importance of a fifth-generation 
aircraft. I discussed earlier the importance of us making these tough 
decisions. Not irrelevant to this debate is the view of the Vice 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Cartwright. He is a 
Marine General aviator. He is the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, and he serves as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs' most senior 
adviser on joint operational requirements.

In recent testimony before the Armed Services Committee, General 
Cartwright outlined why, in his best military judgment, the F-22 
program should be terminated. He said:




 Looking at the lines in hot production, the number one 


 priority was to get fifth generation fighters to all of the 


 services. Number-two priority was to ensure that we had a hot 


 production line in case there was a problem. And, number 


 three, was to have that hot production line producing F-18Gs, 


 which support the electronic warfare fight.


In General Cartwright's view:




 Those issues stacked up to a solid position that it was 


 time to terminate the F-22. It is a good airplane. It is a 


 fifth-generation fighter. But we needed to proliferate those 


 fifth-generation fighters to all of the services, and we 


 needed to ensure that we were capable of continuing to 


 produce aircraft for the electronic warfare capability. In 


 the F-18, we can also produce front-line fighters that are 


 more capable of addressing any threat that we'll face for the 


 next 5 to 10 years.


Interesting comment. He is saying, in the F-18, we can also produce 
frontline fighters that are more capable of addressing any threat we 
will face for the next 5 to 10 years.

In any case, let me clear up the record on some discussions about the 
risk the Air Force is taking on by ending the F-22 line at 187 
aircraft. References to some of that discussion appear to have been 
taken out of context. The Air Force's acceptance of risk by


discontinuing the program needs to be understood in the context of the 
Air Force's overall combat Air Force restructure plan, a plan that is 
intended to bridge the Air Force's current fleet to the predominantly 
fifth-generation force of the future. Basically, that plan works by 
restructuring the Air Force's current fleet of fighters now and 
directing the results and savings to fund modifying newer or more 
reliable fighters in the legacy fleet, weapons procurement, and joint 
enablers.

Under this plan, those investments will help create a more capable 
fleet that can bridge the Air Force to a future fleet with a smaller, 
more capable force. As you can imagine, the effectiveness of the plan 
depends on a lot of moving parts, perhaps most importantly stopping the 
F-22 program at 187 fighters now.

While some short-term risks in the Air Force's fighter force may 
arise from stopping the program at 187 aircraft, the Combat Air Force 
Restructure Plan is designed to accept that risk to ensure a more 
capable fleet in the long term. I believe this strategy is sound and 
needs the support of this body. Please do not be deluded by references 
to risk associated with ending the F-22 program.

Given the strength of the reasons cited by the National Command 
Authority, the best professional military advice by the Chairman and 
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the considered 
recommendations of the service Secretaries, I can find no good reason 
why I should replace their judgment on this critical national defense 
issue with my own and call for funding for the continuation of the F-22 
program. I, respectfully, suggest the Members of this body do the same 
and support the amendment under consideration.

I understand where votes are. I understand that right now, probably 
this morning, anyway, and I hope that the very forceful letter by the 
Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and 
the very strong letter from the President of the United States will 
move my colleagues in support of this amendment.

But I have no illusions about the influence of the military 
industrial complex in this town. Long ago, President Eisenhower, when 
he left office--probably the most noted military leader or certainly 
one of the most noted military leaders ever to occupy the White House--
warned America about the military industrial complex and the power and 
the increasing influence he saw that military industrial complex having 
over the decisionmaking made in the Congress and in the administration 
and in the funding of different programs and the expenditure of the 
taxpayers' hard-earned dollars.

We are at a very interesting moment, if not a seminal one, in the 
history of this administration. If we accept the threat of the 
President of the United States to veto and overcome the individual 
concerns, I think it will be a great step forward to providing the 
taxpayer with a far better usage of their hard-earned dollars.

These are difficult and terrible economic times for America. We 
cannot afford business as usual. We cannot afford to continue to 
purchase weapons systems that are not absolutely vital to this Nation's 
security. I would point out, again, and maybe it is not appropriate to 
keep mentioning, this plane has never been flown over Iraq or 
Afghanistan. It is never part of the two wars we have been in. It is a 
good airplane. It will probably be important, the 187 of them we are 
procuring, to the security of the Nation.


But to continue production and procurement at some $350 million a 
copy, when in the judgment of the people we give the responsibility to 
make the judgment in the strongest possible terms have told us: We need 
to move on to another aircraft. We need the Joint Strike Fighter, and 
we do not need any more of the F-22 aircraft, it is a very interesting 
time. I look forward to the debate and vote on this amendment as soon 
as possible. I respect the views of my colleagues who feel very 
strongly that we need to continue the production of this aircraft. But 
I think it is wrong. I hope we can have an enlightened and respected 
debate on this issue.

I understand the passion that some of my colleagues have about it and 
the importance it is to jobs in their States and communities. I would 
point out, again, defending this Nation and expenditures of the 
taxpayers' dollars for its defense should not be based on jobs. It 
should be based on our national security needs. There are not unlimited 
amounts of money.

I wish to thank my colleague, the distinguished chairman again. I am 
sure that both those letters have been included in the Record.

I yield the floor.