---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `91cbe11fea3216c9a50a0d20ad72d9f9`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER — 2 August 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California 
for the opportunity.

I stand here today in strong support of H.R. 3159. As a former 
military spouse and the proud wife of a veteran, I know how important 
this is to military families. The President's policies have failed on 
many levels, but they certainly have failed on the soldiers, the troops 
who are suffering this great strain right now.

I find it ironic that the Iraqi parliament is on vacation for a month 
while we stand here and tell our troops that they cannot have a break, 
that they need to stay in the field in the heat and keep fighting the 
battle for the Iraqis.

The Army's available, active duty combat brigades, along with 80 
percent of the Reserves and National Guard, have served at least one 
tour in Iraq and Afghanistan; and the strain is starting to show.

Recruiting and reenlistment are down, especially in the Army which 
has reported about a 7 percent first retention drop, and we're having 
to offer greater bonuses to attract people. Reports of traumatic brain 
injury and post-traumatic stress syndrome are up; and this spring the 
Secretary of Defense announced that active duty soldiers can expect to 
spend more time in Iraq than they spend at home, with only 12-month 
breaks between 15-month deployments.

We hear a lot of talk from the White House about supporting our 
troops. That is what this bill does. This bill will support our troops 
by supporting their right to have a break from combat, and it will 
support our military families by protecting their rights to spend time 
with their loved ones.

I urge my colleagues, regardless of how they feel about this war and 
the President's policies, to support H.R. 3159.