---
---

# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `91ccef5cc75161cb99ae4fc377811687`
`Mr. BYRD — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I want to assure all Senators that the 
Appropriations Committee intends to address the $3.1 billion increase 
proposed in the Senator's amendment when the Senate takes up the $100 
billion supplemental that the President sent to the Congress this week. 
I have every expectation that the supplemental will be before the 
Senate next month.

Today marks the 131st day of fiscal year 2007. We are debating H.J. 
Res. 20, a joint funding resolution for the nine remaining 
appropriations bills that were not completed during the 109th Congress. 
The Republican leadership, during the 109th Congress, left us with a 
great deal of unfinished business in the appropriations process. Only 2 
of the 11 appropriations bills were enacted into law. Thirteen of the 
fifteen Federal departments--all but Defense and Homeland Security--are 
limping along through February 15 under a very restrictive continuing 
resolution.

This is not the fault of the Appropriations Committee. Under the very 
able leadership of Chairman Thad Cochran, all of the fiscal year 2007 
appropriations bills were reported from the committee by July 20. All 
of the bills were bipartisan bills, with all but one of the bills 
approved, 28 to nothing, in committee. Unfortunately, the Republican 
leadership chose not to bring domestic appropriations bills to the 
floor before the election and then chose not to finish those bills 
after the election. Instead, Congress passed three very restrictive 
continuing resolutions.

These resolutions, if simply extended, would leave huge problems for 
veterans and military medical care, education programs, law enforcement 
programs, funding for global AIDS, for energy independence, and for 
agencies that provide key services to the elderly, such as the Social 
Security Administration and the 1-800-MEDICARE call centers.

In December, I sat down with my friend, Senator Reid, and the new 
House Appropriations chairman, Dave Obey, to plot a course for dealing 
with this problem. We charted a course for developing a bipartisan and 
bicameral funding resolution that the House and Senate could pass 
quickly. During January, there were intense negotiations, which 
included the majority and the minority in the House and Senate. I 
consulted with Senator Thad Cochran several times during that process, 
and his ranking members and their staffs were included throughout the 
process.


The resolution that passed the House last week and is now before the 
Senate is the product of those efforts.

The resolution, which totals $463.5 billion and provides funding for 
the nine appropriations bills that were not completed during the 109th 
Congress, meets several goals. Namely, first, funding stays within the 
$872.8 billion statutory cap on spending, the cap which was set during 
the 109th Congress and which equals the President's request. Second, 
the legislation does not include earmarks--hear me--the legislation 
does not include earmarks. The Appropriations Committee took the lead 
in confronting the earmarks issue. We eliminated over 9,300 earmarks. 
We will have a temporary moratorium on earmarks until Congress passes 
the ethics reform bill. Hopefully, that bill will establish greater 
transparency and accountability in the earmarking process. Once the 
ethics reform bill is in place with its added transparency, we will 
establish a more open, more disciplined, and more accountable process 
for congressional directives in the fiscal year 2008 bills.

Third, there is no emergency spending in this resolution.

Fourth, for most agencies, funding is set at the fiscal year 2006 
level. This formula replaces the current restrictive formula which was 
based on the lower of the fiscal year 2006 or the unsustainable House-
passed level.

Finally, the essential national priorities receive a boost in the 
legislation. To help pay for these essential national priorities, we 
cut over $11 billion from 125 different accounts and we froze spending 
at the 2006 level for 450 accounts.

While we decided to include a continuing resolution formula for 
funding most agencies, it was essential that we, on a bipartisan basis, 
make choices to deal with the many problems that would result from 
simply extending the current continuing resolution.

As noted in the White House Statement of Administration Policy, many 
of these increases also reflect administration priorities. For example, 
for veterans medical care, we included $32.3 billion, an increase of 
$3.6 billion over the fiscal year 2006 level, so that the VA can 
continue to meet the growing demand for health care for our veterans. 
For defense health initiatives, we included $21.2 billion, an increase 
of $1.2 billion over fiscal year 2006, to provide care for military 
members and their families, including treating servicemembers wounded 
in action in Iraq and Afghanistan. Consistent with the fiscal year 2007 
Defense Authorization Act, the President's proposal to charge members 
of the military $735 million for their health care is rejected.

For the Labor, HHS, and Education bill, funding is increased by $2.3 
billion, $7 billion above the President's request. Title I grants for 
our schools are funded at $12.8 billion, an increase of $125 million 
over fiscal year 2006, which will provide approximately 38,000 
additional low-income children with intensive reading and math 
instruction. In addition, the legislation funds the title I school 
improvement fund at $125 million to target assistance to the 6,700 
schools that failed to meet the No Child Left Behind requirements in 
the 2005-2006 school year.

For the first time in 4 years, Pell grants will expand thanks to the 
$13.6 billion included in this legislation, an increase of $615.4 
million over fiscal year 2006 that will increase the maximum Pell grant 
by $260 to $4,310.

The National Institutes of Health are funded at $28.9 billion, an 
increase of $620 million over fiscal year 2006, for research to cure 
debilitating and often deadly diseases. Community health centers would 
receive $1.9 billion, an increase of $207 million, to finance more than 
300 new or expanded health centers.

Three hundred million is included for the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Administration, MSHA, an increase of $23 million over fiscal 
year 2006 and $13 million more than the request, to allow the agency to 
continue its national efforts to hire and train new mine safety 
inspectors for safety in the Nation's 2,000 coal mines.

The legislation increases funding for Federal, State, and local law 
enforcement by $1.6 billion. According to the FBI, last year violent 
crime rose in America for the first time in 15 years. In response, this 
legislation directs $6 billion to the FBI, an increase of $200 million 
over fiscal year 2006, to ensure that the FBI not only retains all of 
its special agents but also completes the effort to double the number 
of intelligence analysts hired since September 11, 2001. Other law 
enforcement programs receiving support include State and local law 
enforcement grants, the Judiciary, Treasury antiterrorism efforts, and 
other crime prevention programs.

Under the continuing resolution now in law, highway funding is frozen 
at the 2006 level. Under this joint funding resolution, the Federal aid 
highway program is fully funded at the level guaranteed in the 2005 
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act by 
providing an obligation limitation of $39.1 billion for fiscal year 
2007, $3.5 billion over the fiscal year 2006 enacted level.

The joint resolution includes $4.8 billion for Global AIDS and 
Malaria programs, an increase of $1.4 billion over fiscal year 2006.

The Food and Drug Administration and the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service receive increases of $220 million over fiscal year 2006 in 
order to improve food and drug safety and to combat the threat of 
pandemic flu.

We also include funds for technology and innovation. The Department 
of Energy, Office of Science receives an increase of $200 million over 
fiscal year 2006; the National Science Foundation receives an increase 
of $335 million, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
receives an increase of $50 million.

In an effort to promote energy independence, Energy Efficiency and 
Renewable Energy programs will receive an increase of $300 million over 
fiscal year 2006.

Finally, we also include $785 million to provide agencies with 50 
percent of the cost of the January 2007 pay raise in order to avoid 
RIFS and furloughs. The resolution will avoid the service delays for 
Social Security and the 1-800-Medicare call centers that would result 
from extending the current continuing resolution.

This is not a perfect resolution--we don't claim that--but it is a 
thoughtful resolution. By complying with the statutory cap on spending, 
it is a fiscally disciplined resolution. By eliminating earmarks, it 
provides Congress with time to pass ethics reform legislation to 
increase transparency and accountability. By targeting resources toward 
national priorities, such as veterans and military medical care, we 
solve the most distressing of the problems created by the existing 
continuing resolution.

On February 2, 2007--that was Groundhog Day, wasn't it--I received a 
letter from the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American 
Veterans, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, and AMVETS, urging quick 
passage of this legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the Record 
following my remarks.