# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `91d57279f87dd4a8cb9941de0fb9b0bf`
`Ms. GRANGER — 28 July 2009`

---


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, pursuant to the Republican Leadership 
standards on earmarks, I, Kay Granger, submit the following information 
regarding earmarks I received as part of H.R. 3326, the Defense 
Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010.

For the priority titled ''Army National Guard UH-60 Rewiring 
Program'' which received $10 million in H.R. 3326, Army Utility 
Helicopter Mods account, the legal name and address of the receiving 
entity is InterConnect Wiring, 5024 West Vickery Blvd, Fort Worth, TX 
76107. The UH-60 rewiring program is a vital recapitalization of 
critical aviation assets within the Army National Guard. Replacing 
Kapton insulation used in aircraft wiring harnesses during 
modification, work order and retrofit is a key component. After many 
years of use, Kapton insulation becomes old and brittle and can lead to 
wet or dry arcing. Arcing can lead to intermittent or catastrophic 
failures. The only solution for this potential problem is to replace 
the wiring harnesses with new wiring harnesses. The rewiring of aging 
UH-60 aircraft will ensure a single, standardized aircraft 
configuration, reduce extensive maintenance time requirements needed to 
isolate electrical malfunctions, and enhance operational safety due to 
the age of the wire within these aircraft.

For the priority titled ''Nautilus: Multi-Mission Unmanned Surface 
Vessel'' which received $2.5 million in H.R. 3326, Navy Force 
Protection Applied Research account, the legal name and address of the 
receiving entity is Elbit Systems of America, 4700 Marine Creek 
Parkway, Fort Worth, TX 76179. This priority makes the 77 ft Sea Lion 
stealthy, semi-submersible craft into an unmanned surface combat craft 
with multiple sensors and weapons, operated from a Remote Control 
Station. The mission modules will have full range of flexibility to 
include E/O IR, LASER Designation/Range Finder, data links and 
satellite communications, electronic warfare package, stabilized 
remotely controlled gun, short/medium range missiles, disposable UAVs 
and non-lethal weapons. Nautilus represents a major step in the 
introduction of large scale, fully weaponized unmanned surface vehicles 
into the US Navy. Investment in this priority will enable achieving 
operational capabilities comparable with those of much larger and 
complex platforms, but without the risk to personnel/naval assets and 
at a much lower operational cost.

For the priority titled ''Remote Aiming and Sighting Optical Retrofit 
(RASOR)'' which received $3.8 million in H.R. 3326, Marine Corps Ground 
Combat/Supporting Arms Systems account, the legal name and address of 
the receiving entity is L-3 Electro-Optical Systems Division, 3414 
Herrman Drive, Garland, TX 75041. RASOR will significantly extend the 
service life of the currently fielded AN/PVS-14 NVD, while accelerating 
the fielding of next generation mission essential imaging technology. 
It also provides a very affordable path for image fusion technology 
mandated by combat developers that will enable future improvements in 
tactics, techniques, and procedures. At the same time, RASOR will allow 
the Marine to maintain positive control (both hands on the weapon) and 
fully operate the weapon in a stand-off fashion with increased safety, 
mobility, and agility, while reducing the combat load. By presenting 
and fusing the imagery from each sensor, the user will be able to see 
around corners without being exposed to enemy fire and remotely view 
weapon sight imagery. Situational awareness will be dramatically 
improved as well as the ability to detect, recognize, identify, and 
accurately engage targets. Overall, RASOR will significantly increase 
the user's survivability and mission effectiveness.

For the priority titled ''Recovery, Recycle, and Reuse (R3) of DOE 
Metals for DoD Applications'' which received $2.4 million in H.R. 3326, 
Army Weapons and Munitions Advanced Technology account, the legal name 
and address of the receiving entity is e-PEAK INC, 311 Diamond Oaks 
Drive, Weatherford, TX 76087. R3 provides an efficient, low cost method 
of obtaining lightweight specialty metals that are used in advanced 
armors, vehicles, and weapon systems. It provides technologies that 
allow for the safe, secure, and environmentally sound recovery and 
reuse of more than one million tons of discarded metals currently 
stockpiled at DOE facilities.

For the priority titled ''Vision Integrating Strategies in 
Ophthalmology and Neurochemistry (VISION)'' which received $4 million 
in H.R. 3326, Army Research, Development, Test And Evaluation account, 
the legal name and address of the receiving entity is University of 
North Texas Health Science Center, 3500 Camp Bowie Blvd, Fort Worth, TX 
76107. The research performed by the VISION team will target the 
various causes and effects of visual damage resulting from both ocular 
injuries and eye exposure to the elements during combat operations. 
This research will be used to develop compounds and novel therapeutic 
strategies to more quickly return an injured warfighter to his unit. 
More significantly, the goal is to have the Services be able to equip 
warfighters and combat medical personnel with therapy solutions that 
can be (1) administered preventatively, (2) self-administered or (3) 
easily deployed and administered in the field. This


will enable the effective delivery of therapies that take advantage of 
the narrow time window that eye injuries have for most effective 
treatment once damage has occurred. In addition, the development of 
effective treatments for these conditions could save the U.S. 
government hundreds of millions of dollars annually in preservation of 
combat readiness, improvement of the visual performance of reenlisting 
soldiers and in reduction of long-term health care related costs.

For the priority titled ''Flashlight Soldier-to-Soldier Combat 
Identification System (FSCIS)'' which received $4.5 million in H.R. 
3326, SOCOM Special Operations Technology Development, the legal name 
and address of the receiving entity is ATR Electronics, 109 Ridgemont 
Ave, San Antonio, TX 78209. Friendly Fire (FF) is a serious problem for 
the U.S. military and its coalition partners. FF incidents occur 
frequently and cause unnecessary death and injury, and it weakens the 
resolve of some coalition partners. Per capita, U.S. FF casualties 
increased 300 percent during the 2003 Iraq invasion phase compared to 
1991 Desert Storm. Efforts to reduce FF casualties through doctrine, 
training, and Blue Force Tracking have not succeeded. The Flashlight 
Soldier-to-Soldier Combat Identification System (FSCIS) RDT&E priority 
develops 13-prototype M4 rifle mounted/body worn radio communication 
devices that immediately identify friendly soldiers and equipment at 
the point of engagement. Follow-on Flashlight antennas can be mounted 
on vehicle platforms (tanks, etc.) and aircraft to create a single-
system Combat ID capability that can be integrated into advanced 
communications systems. Congress provided $2M in FY 2008 and $5.6M in 
FY 2009 RDT&E funding. USSOCOM is the FSCIS sponsor.

For the priority titled ''Field Deployable Hologram Production 
System'' which received $4.5 million in H.R. 3326, Army Military 
Engineering Advanced Technology, the legal name and address of the 
receiving entity is Zebra Imaging, 9801 Metric Boulevard, Suite 200 
Austin, TX 78759. The Field Deployable Hologram Production System is 
needed by DOD to reduce the time now required to provide 3D imagery to 
deployed combat forces in Iraq and Afghanistan for intelligence and 
operation planning.

For the priority titled ''Mobile, Oxygen, Ventilation, and External 
(MOVES)'' which received $3.4 million in H.R. 3326, Navy Medical 
Development account, the legal name and address of the receiving entity 
is SVTronics, 3465 Technology Drive, Plano, TX 75074. MOVES will 
provide critical life-saving capabilities to combat casualties in the 
field, and significantly reduce logistical costs and hazards. The MOVES 
anesthetic module will also eliminate the waste, work hazards, and need 
for additional training associated with anesthetic delivery technology 
currently used in field hospitals.

For the priority titled ''Mobile Firing Range'' which received $1.5 
million in H.R. 3326, Army Training Devices, Nonsystem account, the 
legal name and address of the receiving entity is Texas Army National 
Guard, PO Box 5218, Austin, TX 78763. Currently there is no opportunity 
to fire weapons for training or qualification without traveling to a 
certified range on a military installation. The TXANG Guard currently 
does not have access to any indoor ranges that can be used to fire the 
M16/M4 which is the current armament for 90 percent of the soldiers 
within the Texas Army National Guard. The Mobile Firing Range will 
allow soldiers to train with their assigned weapons at home station. 
The value added is soldiers can train more than once a year during 
their annual qualification. The ability to have mobile ranges allows 
them to be collocated as needed to support deploying unit needs. This 
system is a training and force multiplier due to the negation of travel 
and lodging, and staging needed when conducting this training on a 
military facility.

For the priority titled ''Intelligent Energy Control Systems'' which 
received $3 million in H.R. 3326, Army Electronics And Electronic 
Devices account, the legal name and address of the receiving entity is 
Williams Pyro, 200 Greenleaf Street, Fort Worth, TX 76707. This 
priority fully supports the Army Science and Technology Master Plan 
which requires focus on Logistic technologies that reduce logistics 
demand and technologies that reduce demand for consumables such as fuel 
and enhance the nation's assurance of sufficient energy for Army 
missions. Additionally, this is a follow on Priority to a Phase II 
award for the Small Business Innovative Research.

For the priority titled ''NSW Protective Combat Uniform'' which 
received $2.5 million in H.R. 3326, Special Operations Forces 
Operational Enhancements account, the legal name and address of the 
receiving entity is Naval Special Warfare Development Group, 1636 
Regulus Ave, Virginia Beach, VA 23461. This is an unfunded priority for 
the community. The use of the Protective Combat Uniform will reduce the 
detectability of SEALs by enemy forces. The textiles used in the PCU 
ensemble address signature reduction against visual and near-infrared 
sensors.

For the priority titled ''Women In Military Service For America 
Memorial Foundation'' which received $2 million in H.R. 3326, 
Administration And Servicewide Activities account, the legal name and 
address of the receiving entity is Women In Military Service For 
America Memorial Foundation, 200 N Glebe Rd Ste 400, Arlington, VA 
22203. The purpose of this funding is to bridge the difference between 
operating and maintenance expenses and the funds raised by the Women's 
Memorial Foundation to pay those expenses so that the Memorial and the 
Foundation can continue in operation. Without this funding, it will be 
impossible for the Foundation to stay in operation and keep the Women's 
Memorial open as one of the Mall's major Memorials. The Foundation is 
the only place in the country solely dedicated to researching and 
making available to DoD and Veterans Affairs officials, other 
government agencies, various organizations, and other interested 
persons, information about the history and achievements of military 
women. It is a source of strong, positive female role models for young 
boys and girls. About 200,000 people from around the world visit the 
Memorial each year and some 2.0 million have visited it to date. The 
Memorial has been designated as a ''Safe Haven'' in the event of a 
catastrophe in the District of Columbia or Northern Virginia as well as 
a site potentially being used as a command post by Homeland Security in 
the event of a disaster in this same area. The Memorial and the 
Foundation with its unique archive and collection of artifacts is one 
of the Nation's treasures and must be kept in operation.

For the priority titled ''Portable Sensor for Toxic Gas Detection'' 
which received $2.6 million in H.R. 3326, Army Missile Technology 
account, the legal name and address of the receiving entity is General 
Atomics, 3550 General Atomics Ct., San Diego, CA 92121. The Portable 
Sensor for Toxic Gas Detection priority will save lives and tax dollars 
by delivering to the soldier on the battlefield a single, hand-held 
detector that can sense any combination of several toxic chemical 
weapon vapors in less than harmful concentrations. Currently, a 
separate team is dedicated to sensing and reporting deadly 
concentrations of chemical weapons on the battlefield. This was an 
acceptable model in battles past. The asymmetric tactics of today's 
enemy demand a more prevalent and protective sensor capability for our 
men and women in the urban warfare environment. This priority will 
deliver that needed capability required today and in the future.
