---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `91e0321fb1555e11df422196807c76fe`
`Mr. FARR — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. FARR. Thank you for yielding.

Madam Speaker, it is a pleasure to see you in the Chair tonight.

I would like to thank the new leadership in the House tonight for the 
opportunity and the time to allow this body and the Members of this 
body to go on record about the President's war strategy.

Of course I would prefer that we were debating my bill, H.R. 413, 
which would rescind the authority that we gave the President to invade 
Iraq back in October of 2002. I voted against this war then, and I will 
continue to do so now.

We just cannot thank, though, our leadership. We have to thank the 
American people, the people that went to the polls in November, who 
voted for a change and a new direction for this country. You, our 
constituents, voted for this change, and now you are witnessing the 
historic debate on the President's policy in Iraq.

This resolution that we are voting on is very simple. It has two 
sections. The first section affirms our support for our troops who are 
serving and have served in Iraq.

The second section expresses disapproval over the deployment of 
21,000 combat troops in Iraq. These two simple statements aren't 
legally binding. But they are binding promises to the American people 
who voted for us to change the direction. Promises are important. When 
soldiers and their families go to war, our government promises to 
support them, and that we should.

Just think, if we made the same promise to the school children when 
they go to school, that we would protect them from school violence and 
fully support their efforts to get an education, and that we should.

Just think, if we made that promise to provide health care for 47 
million Americans who are without health insurance today, and that we 
should. The promise and the list of promises goes on and on, many unmet 
domestic needs that are not getting attention because of the war in 
Iraq.

Some say this resolution is meaningless. I disagree. It is a promise, 
and promises are important.

If we can support our troops and we can support the teachers who are 
educating their children, we can support the health care providers that 
are caring for their loved ones.

By voting for this resolution, we are making a promise to the 
American people to change United States' policy on the war. This 
resolution doesn't end the war, but it begins a new direction.

This is the first time that we have said ''enough is enough'' to the 
President. It is a good start. If we go on record in opposition to 
troop surge, we can express our disapproval to the country's addiction 
to oil and to the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. We 
can express our disapproval of the policy that keeps homeless people on 
the streets, that keeps one in six American children living in poverty, 
and allows our skies and oceans to continue to be polluted.

So to the American people, I thank you. I thank you for getting 
involved, because when you do, politicians respond. You have empowered 
us to chart a new course for the war in Iraq, and I am proud to cast my 
vote for this resolution.

Today we are keeping our promise to the people, for what we do for 
our brave troops, we can do for all of God's children. Yes, Mr. 
President, we can tell you that you are wrong.

In closing, I think what this debate is about is to wake up the 
world. America is coming back. It is coming back with the most powerful 
force on Earth, the energized electorate. This resolution is a breath 
of fresh air in our Nation's Capitol. It is time to get out of Iraq, it 
is time to lead.

Thank you, Speaker Pelosi, for bringing us this far in just a few 
short weeks.