---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `91e384b1d960959feee69862b946e687`
`Mr. McHENRY — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. McHENRY. Madam Chair, of all of the budgets before Congress, this 
one hits the taxpayers the hardest.

Over 5 years, the Progressive Caucus budget will raise taxes by 
$949.3 billion. Over 10 years, the Progressive Caucus budget will raise 
taxes by $2.4 trillion. Over the next 10 years, they will essentially 
double the budget.

There is nothing progressive about Democrats raising taxes. That has 
been their only fiscal strategy over the last 70 years. This budget 
spends $643 billion over 5 years and new entitlement spending over and 
above what the President has asked.

It also spends far less when it comes to military spending on our 
national defense. It drastically cuts military spending by $781 billion 
over 5 years. This is unconscionable.

Beyond that, it says that Iraq and Afghanistan and our global war 
against Islamic extremists is the largest single waste of U.S. taxpayer 
money. That is coming from their budget. Their budget assumes a dream 
world where we are not fighting a global war on terror. It is the 
ostrich approach, where you stick your head in the sand and hope 
everything goes away. It is ridiculous, and it is not safe for the 
American people.

Alternatively, the Republican budget that we propose here today takes 
Social Security off-budget, stops the raid on Social Security, and 
achieves balance while not raising taxes. It is a huge difference 
between what Republicans are proposing and the liberal left of the 
Democrat Caucus is proposing here on the House floor.

Beyond that, what the Democrats are saying with their full budget on 
the floor, as well as this Progressive Caucus budget, that they are 
going to punt on entitlement reform. Every known economist says we must 
reform entitlements. I oppose this budget.