# None
## `91e773b99db67d79874e7a9c9ac9f26b`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 4 October 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise to speak on the challenge posed by 
Iran to our national security and the interests of our friends and 
allies, how the United States should best address the challenge posed 
by Iran and its leader Ahmadi-Nejad.

This has been much in the news lately. The Iranian President visited 
New York to the United Nations general assembly last week and delivered 
a controversial address at Columbia University. During the very same 
week, the Senate approved a resolution condemning Iranian activity that 
helped destabilize Iraq and called upon the administration to take 
actions to deter future Iranian meddling in Iraq and other places. It 
is no surprise that the debate over how to handle Iran occurs very much 
in the shadow of the Iraq war.

Five years ago, Congress voted to give the President the 
authorization to go to war against Saddam Hussein based upon Iraq's 
alleged weapons of mass destruction programs. The shocking failure to 
uncover those so-called WMD programs and the fatally flawed manner in 
which the President took our Nation to war must weigh upon all of us 
now as we debate the right course of action against Iran.

Let me be clear from the outset: Through its refusal to halt 
prohibited nuclear activities in the face of multiple United Nations 
resolutions, its support for extremist groups across the region, and 
its harsh crackdown in recent months on human rights and civil society 
leaders, the Government of Iran has demonstrated why it should be 
isolated from the international community. The United States must take 
the lead in a concerted campaign to coerce Iran into changing course, 
drawing upon all facets of American power, in close coordination with 
friends and allies. We must always remember that while the Iranian 
Government may be hostile to our interests and values, it does not 
speak for the Iranian people. While the Iranian clerical regime, in 
power since the 1979 resolution, has remained reliably anti-American, 
the Iranian people, led by a younger generation born after the 
traumatic events of the last 1970s, are remarkably open to American 
ideals. Two-thirds of the Iranian population is below the age of 30. 
These Iranians view the United States as a potential friend, not as an 
implacable enemy.

Few Americans remember that a candlelight vigil was spontaneously 
organized in Tehran shortly following the 9/11 attacks, attended by 
thousands of ordinary Iranians to honor the memory of those who 
perished in those terrible attacks. I can think of no other Muslim 
nation where such a public expression of sympathy and solidarity 
emerged in the grief- stricken days following September 11. So in 
articulating our response to Iran's recent provocations, we must always 
distinguish between the oppressive clerical regime and the Iranian 
people.

The mullahs in Tehran would love nothing more than a perception that 
the United States, and the broader West, by extension, is hostile 
toward Iran itself. It would spark an instant boost in popularity for 
the regime. Accordingly, any U.S. policy to diffuse Iran's nuclear 
program and halt its support for extremist groups elsewhere must be 
undertaken in a careful fashion, emphasizing that our quarrel lies with 
the clerical regime, not the people of Iran.

Let me first address Iran's nuclear program. The Iranian regime has 
forfeited the goodwill of the international community by engaging in a 
secret program over the past two decades to develop the key components 
of a nuclear fuel cycle--uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing. 
These activities can constitute the elements of a peaceful civilian 
nuclear program, but the nuclear nonproliferation treaty to which Iran 
is a signatory requires that nations fully disclose such activities in 
an open and transparent fashion. That Iran went to such lengths to 
conceal its activities and continues today to refuse to provide a full 
accounting of the history of this program leads a reasonable observer 
to suspect that the program was intended not just for a civilian 
nuclear program but also to enable the production of fissile material 
for nuclear weapons.


This crisis came to a head in 2003, when reports from an Iranian 
exile group prompted the International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, the 
U.N. nuclear watchdog, to open an investigation. Despite initial 
efforts by an alliance of European powers to persuade Iran to come 
clean with the IAEA, Tehran continued to work on its uranium enrichment 
program, spurning offers of economic and trade benefits.

Last year the United Nations Security Council took action, passing an 
initial resolution calling upon Iran to suspend all uranium enrichment 
activities. Iran ignored that resolution. The Security Council passed 
two successive resolutions imposing a set of limited sanctions. Yet 
again, the Iranian regime chose to ignore a clear message from the 
international community. Today the United States is in talks with other 
U.N. Security Council members on a third and potentially more far-
ranging round of sanctions. To its credit, the Bush administration has 
made very clear to Iran that the United States is willing to join a 
comprehensive dialog with Iran and the so-called EU-3 nations--meaning 
the United Kingdom, France, and Germany--once Iran verifiably suspends 
its uranium enrichment activities. Iran has refused to do so, and so it 
is on pace to operate as many as 3,000 uranium centrifuges by the end 
of the year. Under a worst-case estimate, if Iran were to eject all 
international inspectors and operate these 3,000 centrifuges around the 
clock, it could produce sufficient fissile material for one nuclear 
warhead within a year.

An armed Iran that has a nuclear weapon or nuclear weapons would be 
emboldened to intimidate its neighbors, export Islamic extremism 
throughout the region, and deter the United States and others from 
defending their core interests. A regime with leaders who have openly 
called for the destruction of the State of Israel by ''wiping it'' off 
the face of the Earth cannot be allowed to possess the means to achieve 
that goal. Furthermore, we cannot abide the risk, however small, that a 
nuclear Iran may one day decide to share its nuclear technology and 
material with a client terrorist group such as Hamas or Hezbollah.

Iran's nuclear program also poses a genuine danger to the future of 
the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, so-called NPT, an agreement that 
has helped prevent the nightmare vision of President Kennedy of a world 
with 20 nuclear powers from coming to fruition. The NPT is based upon a 
fundamental premise. A nonnuclear weapon state is entitled to a 
civilian nuclear program in exchange for committing to verification and 
inspections to ensure it does not produce nuclear weapons. Yet Iran 
threatens to demonstrate a backdoor option for future nuclear 
aspirants. Here is what it is: build a civilian program, with a 
complete nuclear fuel cycle, in open view to acquire the basic 
knowledge to produce nuclear fissile material.


After achieving that goal, a nation can then withdraw from the NPT 
and, utilizing the knowledge gained from its civilian program, build 
nuclear weapons. This so-called virtual nuclear weapon threatens to 
undermine the NPT and lead to a world where multiple states are poised 
on the thin line between civilian nuclear power and weapons programs. 
For that reason, the international community must demonstrate a united 
front to compel Iran away from that path through diplomatic and 
economic pressure.

The threat posed by an Iranian nuclear weapon is very real. However, 
we cannot afford to panic and blindly accept worst-case scenarios, as 
we did with Iraq to such tragic ends. Iran has made great strides in 
its nuclear program over the past 3 years, but it must do much more if 
it seeks a nuclear weapon. We do not know to what extent those Iranian 
centrifuges already produced are operationally active and whether they 
have been linked together in a required ''enriched cascade.'' We do not 
know whether the Iranian regime has begun work on warhead design so any 
highly enriched uranium that may eventually be produced can be 
fabricated into an actual nuclear weapon.

It is those uncertainties, and the recognition that any ''crash 
program'' to build a nuclear weapon will encounter inevitable 
difficulties, that explain


why our intelligence community has judged that Iran is not likely--not 
likely--to acquire a nuclear weapon until the early to middle part of 
the next decade. This conclusion is spelled out in the most recent 
National Intelligence Estimate.

Based upon what the International Atomic Energy Agency has been 
reporting with regard to the Iranian nuclear program, and what our own 
intelligence community is telling us, we have time--we have time--to 
resolve this very complex, serious challenge. That does not mean we 
have the luxury to relax or postpone difficult choices, but, rather, 
that we can exercise a methodical approach that gradually escalates the 
diplomatic and economic pressure against Iran in a unified manner.

We must present a very clear choice to the Iranian regime--it is 
this--one that will be visible to the people of Iran: End all illicit 
nuclear activities, come back into compliance with IAEA safeguards, and 
provide full transparency. That is one choice. In return, the United 
States and our European partners will be prepared to return to the 
table and discuss potential economic and trade benefits. If Iran 
chooses the path of continued defiance--the path they have been on--we 
must show that the international community is prepared to deny Iran the 
benefits of the global economy, including trade in key energy products, 
facilitation of essential financial transactions, and investment in key 
economic sectors.

Iran's nuclear program is not the only threat that emanates from 
Tehran today. Just as critical is Iran's ongoing support for extremist 
movements across the region, ranging from Hamas in the Gaza Strip and 
Hezbollah in Lebanon to Shiite militia forces in Iraq. Unfortunately, 
Iran's leadership today has made the strategic decision to support 
these forces, promoting chaos and instability across the Middle East.

The Iranian Government has placed itself on the side of those who are 
undermining democratically elected governments, fomenting violence and 
anarchy, and contributing to attacks against U.S. forces. So long as 
the Iranian Government continues to bankroll and supply weapons to 
terrorist groups and insurgent militias, we cannot expect any semblance 
of constructive dialog between Tehran and Washington.

The evidence surrounding Iranian involvement in Iraq is particularly 
disturbing. Iran has interests in Iraq. We know that. The Shiite 
majority that now has power for the first time in Iraq shares vast 
cultural, religious, and political links with the Iranian people. 
However, Iran and Iraq are two different nations, and the Shiite 
population in Iraq does not and should not serve as a proxy for the 
mullahs in Tehran. When the Iranian Government provides weapons and 
financing to sectarian militias battling other Iraqis as well as U.S. 
forces in Iraq, it is only exacerbating the violence that currently 
plagues Iraq.

The administration in Washington, supported by our military 
leadership, has alleged that the Iranian Government has directly 
supplied insurgent groups in Iraq with mortars, rocket-propelled 
grenades, and, most dangerous of all, the explosive formed penetrators 
that have served as the most lethal of roadside bombs killing American 
troops.

The evidence the administration has provided--serial numbers on the 
weapons linking them to Iranian sources and eyewitness testimony--is 
compelling. It remains unclear to what degree this assistance has 
proceeded with the direct knowledge of Iran's senior ruling leadership. 
Regardless, the Iranian Government must be held responsible for all 
activities--all activities--emanating from its territory or carried out 
by its agents. Iran must work with the United States and the 
international community in supporting a stable Iraq and deemphasizing 
sectarian conflict there.

The question that we, as Senators, must answer is how best to 
persuade and, if necessary, compel Iran to change its behavior both in 
terms of its nuclear program and its support for extremist groups. What 
are the tools available to us to persuade Iran that its current course 
of action will only further isolate it from the international 
community? How can we promote fissures inside the Iranian regime 
between the hard-line elements associated with President Ahmadi-Nejad 
and more pragmatic figures?

I believe the United States should implement a strategy of 
containment to deny the Iranian regime any benefits from its nuclear 
program and support for extremist forces, while laying out potential--
potential--incentives if and when the regime changes its behavior. Let 
me be clear: Military force is always an option, but it is not an 
option that makes sense under the current circumstances.

Instead, the United States should pursue a three-pronged strategy 
against Iran's nuclear program and its support for extremist groups.

First, the United States should continue its campaign to 
diplomatically isolate Iran at the United Nations Security Council. The 
Security Council has condemned Iran's evasion and deceit of the IAEA 
and called on Iran, in order to restore the world's confidence in the 
ostensibly peaceful aims of its nuclear program, to halt all work--to 
halt all work--on its uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing 
activities.

While some may view that action as insignificant, it is important to 
remember that Iran never expected Russia or China--its two primary 
benefactors--to sign onto such resolutions. Yet the State Department 
has carefully brought along Moscow and Beijing at every step so that 
the international community is speaking in a united voice to Tehran. 
Today, the Iranian regime is viewed as a pariah state at the 
international level, with sanctions imposed by the Security Council and 
key officials linked to the nuclear program prohibited from 
international travel.


Now it is time for the United States to further isolate Iran 
diplomatically. Washington can encourage other nations to avoid contact 
with Mr. Ahmadi-Nejad, who should be shunned first and foremost for his 
noxious anti-Semitic remarks. The United States should propose, as one 
element--as one element--of the next sanctions resolution, to impose a 
complete prohibition on arms exports to Iran. To the extent we can make 
a clear linkage between Iran's defiance on its nuclear program and its 
further diplomatic isolation, more and more Iranians, including 
influential officials in the Government and military, will question the 
wisdom of proceeding with its nuclear program.

Second, the United States should take action in concert with other 
nations to apply substantial pressure on Iran's energy sector. Although 
Iran boasts the world's second largest oil reserves, its oil production 
has been falling in recent years, as its oilfields suffer from a lack 
of investment. More importantly, as Iran's population continues to grow 
by a half a million people every year, demand for oil and other energy 
resources is beginning to outstrip domestic supply. Iran will soon be 
forced to confront a choice between diverting petroleum exports to its 
domestic needs, thus surrendering much needed foreign currency, or 
facing increasing shortages at home.

There are concrete steps the Congress can take. S. 970, the Iran 
Counter-Proliferation Act of 2007, of which I am proud to serve as a 
cosponsor, would close existing loopholes in the Iran Sanctions Act 
that currently allows subsidiaries of multinational firms to escape 
U.S. sanctions when they invest in Iran's energy sector. I agree with 
Representative Tom Lantos, who has pushed forward similar legislation 
on the House side, when he says the ultimate U.S. goal should be zero--
zero--foreign investment in Iran's energy sector until it changes 
course on its nuclear program.

Iran exhibits a particular vulnerability when it comes to gasoline. 
It is still suffering from the after effects of the Iran-Iraq war of 
the 1980s, when much of Iran's capacity to refine gasoline was 
destroyed. In recent years, U.S. sanctions have limited the ability of 
Iran to rebuild its refining capacity through foreign investment. 
Accordingly, Iran is forced to import as much as 40 percent--40 
percent--of its annual consumption of refined gasoline, despite its 
vast oil riches.

This imbalance between supply and demand for refined gasoline is 
exacerbated by Iran's practice of subsidizing gasoline prices for its 
citizens, which only artificially boosts demand. Today, Iran ensures 
that refined gasoline is available to Iranian citizens at the 
subsidized price of 38 cents per gallon. It is


no wonder, then, that Iran, early this year, was forced to take the 
draconian step of rationing gasoline, limiting the owners of private 
vehicles to no more than 26 gallons of fuel per month. This decision 
produced a backlash in the country, with more than 50 petrostations in 
Iran burned to the ground by angry mobs and plummeting support for the 
Iranian President, who largely ascended to power in 2005 on the basis 
of his promise to improve Iran's economy.

Iran's growing shortages of refined gasoline is a golden opportunity 
for the international community as it tightens the screws on Iran's 
leadership.

The average Iranian will question why Iran's leadership continues to 
pursue an illicit nuclear program at the cost of gasoline shortages and 
economic unrest. For that reason, I am working on legislation to expand 
the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act to crack down on all foreign 
exports of refined gasoline products to Iran until the leadership there 
changes course on its nuclear program.

I wish to now go to the third and final pillar of a comprehensive 
U.S. strategy to coerce Iran into ending its defiance of the 
international community.