---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `91f483d8855aeed36723544bdebd2ae4`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Progressive 
Caucus budget because it includes home foreclosure relief. The 
foreclosure crisis is at the epicenter of our economic slowdown, and 
northeast Ohio is among the hardest hit in the Nation.

Hardworking American families deserve financial security. Foreclosure 
undermines the physical, emotional, and financial security of America's 
families, has a detrimental effect on the greater community. 
Neighborhoods with foreclosed properties are likely to experience 
declining property values. Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, 
my hometown, had 11,000 foreclosures in 2005, more than triple the 
number a decade earlier.

My home State of Ohio has the ninth highest rate of foreclosures, and 
fourth nationwide for the number of preforeclosure and foreclosure 
filings. So I'm urging my colleagues to support this budget for that 
reason. But there's another reason, too.

We can talk about the transfer of wealth, which is a lot of the 
discussions that go on. This whole government is an engine to transfer 
the wealth of the country upwards. We have to recognize it. If there is 
one engine that's transferring the wealth upwards with great 
acceleration it's the war. Because this war would be as if every 
American family took out a checkbook and wrote out a check already for 
$16,000 and handed it over to the government. Already it has cost each 
family in this country $16,000. And if we continue this war, if you 
read Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winning economist, the war is 
going to cost $3


trillion, and by the time we get over it, it will be upwards of $5 
trillion.

Let's talk about how this budget is being used to accelerate the 
wealth of the Nation. Now, portend, it's the Progressive budget which 
offers an alternative which says, end the war, stop funding the war, 
stop funding wasteful military spending. We want a secure Nation, but 
we cannot secure our Nation on lies. The war is based on lies. We're on 
the fifth anniversary of this war. We went into war based on lies at a 
cost of $3 trillion now, 4,000 of our troops, a million innocent 
Iraqis, the morality of the United States, our position in the world 
all under attack because the truth wasn't told.

This budget is the truth. This budget gives the American people an 
opportunity to finally have their basic needs met. And those needs are 
going to continue to be neglected as long as we stay riveted to a war 
that is based on lies.

Bring those troops home. The Progressive budget does it. Stop the 
war. The Progressive budget does it. Take a new direction with our 
international policy. The Progressive budget does it. Take care of 
things here at home. The Progressive budget does it. Vote for the 
Progressive budget.