---
---

# WEAPON SYSTEMS ACQUISITION REFORM ACT OF 2009
## `9202937aa8d7fbeb1ecf6d8244ffba37`
`Mr. McCAIN — 6 May 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I wish to begin by thanking my friend from 
Michigan, the distinguished chairman of the committee, whom I have had 
the great honor of working with for many years. Senator Levin and I 
have not always agreed on every issue; we are of different parties. But 
we have had, in my view, a great opportunity to work together for the 
good of this Nation and its security and the men and women who serve 
it.

I again thank Senator Levin for his leadership in bringing this 
legislation quickly through our committee in a unanimous, bipartisan 
fashion, and bringing it to the floor.

As Senator Levin has mentioned, there may be some amendments or some 
modifications that our colleagues want to make, but I am confident we 
can get this bill done, into conference, and on the desk of the 
President. I am happy to say the President is very supportive. A 
meeting he and Senator Levin and I had with the leaders in the House 
Armed Services Committee indicates the President and the 
administration's commitment.

I also want to say Secretary Gates--a man who I believe is one of the 
outstanding Secretaries of Defense in the history of our country--has 
always been forcefully in support of this legislation. There obviously 
is more to do because we have a broken system, a system that is broken 
so badly that in our attempt to provide a replacement for the 
President's helicopter--which is some 30 years old, known as Marine 
One--we came to a point where the helicopter costs more than Air Force 
One.

You cannot make it up--where we have a future combat system with cost 
overruns of tens of billions of dollars; a joint strike fighter program 
that is completely out of control; and contracts--and there are many 
areas to place the blame and responsibility--but contracts that are let 
at certain cost estimates and then lose all touch with the original 
realities.

Is there anybody who is an expert on defense acquisition, weapons 
systems acquisition, who believes the final cost will be anything near 
what the initial cost was as presented to Congress and the American 
people? Of course not. Of course not.

So the title of this legislation is the ''Weapon Systems Acquisition 
Reform Act of 2009''--perhaps not a very exciting title. But the fact 
is, we have out-


of-control costs of our weapons systems, which we cannot afford. We are 
expanding our Army and Marine Corps. We have increased obligations in 
Afghanistan, which has certainly been highlighted by the recent events 
in Pakistan, as well as Afghanistan. We cannot afford it.

We cannot afford to take care of our obligations in at least two 
wars, and potential flashpoints all over the world, and continue the 
spending spree we are on on weapons systems acquisition. This is 
timely. It is needed.

I again thank the chairman of the committee, Senator Levin, for his 
leadership in seeing this bill from introduction through floor 
consideration today. It shows, I think--and I do not want to make too 
much of it, but it does show when there is an issue that cries out for 
bipartisan action, this one can be an example now and in the future.

I do not want to get into a lot of the details of how all this came 
about. But I would remind my colleagues that back some years ago, we 
used to have a thing called fixed-cost contracts. Those were the 
majority of the contracts that were let when we wanted to build a new 
weapons system: a new airplane, a new ship, a new tank. For many years, 
we were almost able to stay within those costs.

There were some dramatic exceptions. I can remember back in the 1970s 
the cost escalation associated with new nuclear submarines. And I can 
remember some others. But, generally speaking, we built weapons systems 
and gave them to the military at very close to their original cost 
estimates. That is not the case today.

Some will argue--as I have heard in the industry--well, there are 
technical changes that are ordered by the military which increase the 
cost. I think Secretary Gates pointed out some months ago: Are we 
allowing the perfect to be the enemy of the good? Are we getting a 
weapon system which achieves 80 to 90 percent of what we want--which, 
it seems to me, is under reasonable costs--or are we making all these 
technical changes, which cause the cost of these systems to go up in 
the most dramatic fashion?

We cannot afford to continue to do it. We cannot. I think this is an 
important step. I know the chairman would agree with me. This is not 
the only step that needs to be taken to bring an out-of-control system 
under some kind of control and accountability to the American taxpayer.

In its most recent assessment of the Department of Defense's major 
weapons systems, the General Accountability Office observed that ''the 
overall performance of weapon system programs is poor [and] the time 
for change is now.''

So I say to my colleagues, as they come to the floor with amendments 
and debate--and we need to discuss this--we should keep in mind the 
General Accountability Office's observation that ''the time for change 
is now.''

I would also remind my colleagues and the American people this 
legislation has to pass through the House. We have to then go to 
conference. We then have to have the President sign it. And then the 
changes have to be implemented. So we are not seeing even an immediate 
turnaround with the rapid consideration of this legislation, as I think 
we can achieve today.

I would ask my colleagues on this side of the aisle, if they have 
amendments, if they would notify the cloakroom, and we will make time 
for them. I know the chairman and I can enter into time agreements so 
we can dispense with the legislation in an expeditious way as possible, 
but also taking into consideration any concerns, amendments, our 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle have.

The chairman has described, I think, this bill very well, and I do 
not want to repeat his assessment. But I do want to point out a couple 
things or emphasize a couple points the chairman made.

The bill improves how the Department of Defense manages probably the 
single most significant driver of cost growth in our largest weapons 
procurement programs: technology risk. Basically, it does so by 
starting programs off right--with sound systems engineering, 
developmental testing, and independent cost estimates early in the 
program. We have seen these cost estimates particularly being 
unrealistic because we have not done the proper sound systems 
engineering and developmental testing that is necessary to get a 
correct assessment of costs.

The bill, among many other things, requires the Department of Defense 
to assess each department's ability to conduct early stage systems 
engineering and fill in any gaps in that important capability.

The bill provides for the creation or resumption of key oversight 
positions, including a Director of Independent Cost Assessment and a 
Director of Developmental Testing and Evaluation. I am not one who 
believes in creating new positions. I think our bureaucracy over on the 
other side of the river is big enough. But I do believe we need to 
create and resume key oversight functions, and those do require a 
Director of Independent Cost Assessment and a Director of Developmental 
Testing and Evaluation.

The relationship between those who are doing the contracting, other 
contractors, and the awardee is way too close today for us to get truly 
independent assessments and cost controls.

The bill requires that preliminary design and critical design reviews 
are completed early in a program's acquisition cycle so as to inform 
go/no-go purchase decisions on major weapons systems.

The bill requires that the Department's budget, requirements, and 
acquisitions community consult with each other and make tradeoffs 
between cost, schedule, and performance early in the procurement 
process, and get combatant commanders more involved in the requirements 
process.

I want to emphasize that last point. The combatant commanders are the 
end users of the equipment we provide them with. Unfortunately, on many 
occasions, the combatant commanders have not been involved in the 
requirements process early enough on or too late, to the point where 
they cannot make significant changes. What we want to do is give the 
Department, under the leadership of our great Secretary of Defense and 
the Congress, a big stick--bigger than anything available under current 
law--to wield against the very worst performing programs.

On the broadest level, this bill recognizes that only when a program 
is predictable; that is, when milestones are being met, estimated costs 
are actual costs, and performance-to-contract specifications and ''key 
performance parameters'' are achieved, only then can we rely on the 
acquisition process to provide the joint warfighter with timely optimal 
capability at the most reasonable cost to the taxpayer.


The approach provided for in this bill, which allows the Department 
of Defense to manage technology risks effectively, should help it move 
away from cost-reimbursable contracts and instead maximize its use of 
fixed price-type contracts. When coupled with initiatives that subject 
programs to full and open competition, this approach could save 
taxpayers billions of dollars.

While we do not intend this bill as a panacea that will cure all that 
ails the defense procurement process, as it is, it constitutes an 
important next step in Congress's continuing effort to help the 
Department reform itself.

Two final points.

Since the chairman and I originally introduced the bill, the 
Department of Defense and others have raised various concerns about 
discrete elements of the bill. The bill now under consideration has 
benefited from that dialog as it addresses their reasonable concerns, 
without undermining the underlying intent of the bill, to put in place 
an evolutionary, knowledge-based acquisition process that metes out 
technology risks early in a program.

I note for the record that we received testimony on this bill in our 
March 3, 2009, hearing. A day later, the President came out in support 
of the bill's underlying principles. Just a few days ago, he offered an 
unqualified endorsement. In addition, Secretary Gates and Dr. Ashton 
Carter, the new Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology 
and Logistics, have spoken approvingly of the bill. Also, the General 
Accountability Office, two former Defense acquisition chiefs, and 
various taxpayer advocacy and think tank organizations, including the 
Center for American Progress, Business Executives for National 
Security, the Project on Government Oversight, known as POGO, the 
National Taxpayers Union, NTU, the U.S. Public Interest Research


Group, PIRG, and Taxpayers for Common Sense, have also weighed in in 
support of the bill.

I ask unanimous consent to have their statements printed in the 
Record.