---
---

# None
## `9206afc3f8b4011d7b87bd0511a850c0`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 26 September 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. I thank the gentlelady.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here in strong support of this economic stimulus 
package, which will have an immediate effect on our economy by creating 
investments in infrastructure projects that can start fast, meet 
existing needs and create jobs. These projects provide short-term 
benefits by putting people to work, buying goods, and leave behind 
long-term infrastructure assets that will benefit Americans for years 
to come.

Outside of the crumbling schools that will be repaired, the water 
projects, the transit, the advanced battery technologies, et cetera, I 
want to just mention the one that I am thinking right now about the 
most, highway infrastructure, $12.8 billion for our Nation's crumbling, 
aging, highways and bridges, to improve our safety and reduce traffic 
congestion. In my district, there are 13 bridges on the deficient list 
that was released after the I-35 bridge collapse in Minnesota.

If we can spend $12 billion a month in Iraq, certainly we can come up 
with this $12.8 billion to repair the bridges that our school buses, 
our trucks carrying commerce, and our family vehicles are going across 
every day. This will be a job-creation program whose jobs cannot be 
outsourced. We would be rebuilding the value of our own country, nation 
building here at home, and creating jobs for our people that cannot be 
sent abroad.