# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `9207b29c99a9ea6983a8e34cf71bb4ba`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN â€” 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, the supplemental appropriations bill we 
are debating today contains language that would have Congress take 
control of the direction of our military strategy in Iraq. Like most 
Senators of both parties, I support the appropriations in this bill. 
But because I strongly oppose its language on Iraq, I will vote no.

Earlier this week, the Senate majority leader spoke at the Woodrow 
Wilson Center and laid out the case for why the bill now before this 
Chamber, in his view, offers a viable alternative strategy for Iraq. It 
was the most comprehensive recent argument in support of this position, 
and so I wish to address myself to its content respectfully and point 
by point.

I have great respect for my friend from Nevada. I believe he has 
offered this proposal in good faith, and therefore I wish to take it up 
in good faith and examine its arguments and ideas carefully and in-
depth because this is a very serious discussion we are having this 
morning for America and its future security.

In his speech Monday, the Senate majority leader described the 
several steps this new strategy for Iraq would entail. The first step, 
he said, is to:



 . . . transition the U.S. mission away from policing a civil 


 war . . . to training and equipping Iraqi security forces, 


 protecting U.S. forces, and conducting targeted counter-


 terror operations.


I ask my colleagues to step back for a moment and consider this plan. 
When we say that U.S. troops shouldn't be policing a civil war, that 
their operation should be restricted to the narrow list of missions, 
what does this actually mean? To begin with, it means our troops will 
not be allowed to protect the Iraqi people from the insurgents and 
militias and terrorists who are trying to terrorize and kill them. 
Instead of restoring basic security, which General Petraeus has 
effectively argued should be the focus of any counterinsurgency 
campaign, it means our soldiers would, instead, be ordered, by force of 
this proposed law, not to stop the sectarian violence happening all 
around them no matter how vicious or horrific it becomes. I fear if we 
begin to withdraw, it will become both vicious and horrific.


In short, it means telling our troops to deliberately and consciously 
turn their backs on ethnic cleansing, to turn their backs on the 
slaughter of innocent civilians--men, women, and children singled out 
and killed on the basis of their religion alone or their ethnicity. It 
means turning our backs on the policies that led us correctly to 
intervene in the civil war in Yugoslavia in the 1990s, the principles 
that today lead many of us to cry out and demand intervention in 
Darfur. To me, this makes no moral sense at all.

It also makes no strategic or military sense. Al-Qaida's own leaders 
have


repeatedly said that one of the ways they intend to achieve victory in 
Iraq is to provoke civil war. They are trying to kill as many people as 
possible, precisely in the hope of igniting sectarian violence because 
they know this is their best way to collapse Iraq's political center, 
overthrow Iraq's elected Government, radicalize its population, and 
create a failed state in the heart of the Middle East that they can use 
as a base. That is why al-Qaida blew up the Golden Mosque in Samarra 
last February, and that is why we are seeing mass-casualty suicide 
bombings by al-Qaida in Baghdad today. The sectarian violence the 
majority leader says he wants to order American troops to stop 
policing, in other words, is the very same sectarian violence al-Qaida 
hopes will take it to victory. The suggestion that we can draw a bright 
legislative line between stopping terrorists in Iraq and stopping civil 
war in Iraq flies in the face of this reality. I don't know how to say 
it any more plainly. It is al-Qaida that is trying to inflame a full-
fledged civil war in Iraq. So we cannot both fight al-Qaida and get out 
of the civil war. They are one.

The majority leader said on Monday that he believes U.S. troops will 
still be able to conduct targeted counterterror operations under his 
plan. Even if we stop trying to protect civilians in Iraq, in other 
words, we can still go after the bad guys. But, again, I ask my 
colleagues, how would this translate into reality on the ground? How 
would we find these terrorists, who do not gather on conventional 
military bases or fight in conventional formations?

By definition, targeted counterterrorism requires our forces to know 
where, when, and against whom to strike, and that, in turn, requires 
accurate, actionable, real-time intelligence. This is the kind of 
intelligence which can only come from ordinary Iraqis--the sea of 
people among whom the terrorists hide. That, in turn, requires 
interacting with the Iraqi people on a close, personal, daily basis. It 
requires winning individual Iraqis to our side because they conclude we 
are there on their side, gaining their trust, and convincing them they 
can count on us to keep them safe from the terrorists if they share 
valuable information about them. This is no great secret. It is at the 
heart of what is happening in Iraq today and is part of the Petraeus 
plan.

In sum, on this point, you can't have it both ways. You can't 
withdraw combat troops from Iraq and still say you are going to fight 
al-Qaida there. If you believe that there is no hope of winning in Iraq 
or that the cost of victory there is not worth it, then you should be 
for complete withdrawal as soon as possible.

There is another irony in the Iraq language in this bill. For most of 
the past 4 years, under former Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, the United 
States did not try to establish basic security in Iraq. Rather than 
deploying enough troops necessary to protect the Iraqi people, the 
focus of our military has been on training and equipping Iraqi forces, 
protecting our own forces, and conducting targeted antiterrorist sweeps 
and raids--in other words, the very same missions proposed by the 
proponents of the legislation before us.

That Rumsfeld strategy failed, and we know why it failed. It failed 
because we didn't have enough troops doing the right things to ensure 
security, which in turn created an opening for al-Qaida and its allies 
to exploit and allowed sectarian violence to begin to run rampant. Al-
Qaida stepped into the security vacuum, as did the sectarian militias, 
and through horrific violence created a climate of fear and insecurity 
in which political and economic progress became impossible.

For years, many Members of Congress saw this and spoke to it. We 
talked about it. We called for more troops and a new strategy--and, for 
that matter, a new Secretary of Defense. Yet now, when President Bush 
has come around, when he has acknowledged the mistakes that have been 
made and the need to focus on basic security in Iraq and to install a 
new Secretary of Defense and a new commander in Iraq, now his critics 
in Congress have changed their minds and decided that the old failed 
strategy--the Rumsfeld strategy--wasn't so bad after all, because that 
is what would be adopted in the language on Iraq in this bill. What is 
going on here? What has changed so that the strategy we criticized and 
rejected in 2006 suddenly makes sense in 2007?

The second element in the plan outlined by the majority leader on 
Monday is the phased redeployment of our troops no later than October 
1, 2007. Let us be absolutely clear what this means. The legislation 
would impose a binding deadline for U.S. troops to begin retreating 
from Iraq. That withdrawal would happen regardless of conditions on the 
ground, regardless of the recommendations of General Petraeus--
in short, regardless of reality, on October 1, 2007. As far as I can 
tell, none of the supporters of withdrawal have attempted to explain 
why October 1 is the magic date, what strategic or military 
significance this date holds. Why not September 1? Why not January 1 or 
April 1? October 1, 2007, is a date as arbitrary as it is inflexible. 
It is, I contend, a deadline for defeat.


How do proponents of this deadline defend it? On Monday, Senator Reid 
gave several reasons. First he said a date for withdrawal puts 
''pressure on the Iraqis to make desperately needed political 
compromises.''

But will it? According to the legislation now before us, the 
withdrawal will happen, regardless of what the Iraqi Government does. 
How, then, if you are an Iraqi Government official, does this give you 
any incentive to make the right choices? On the contrary, there is 
compelling reason to think a legislatively directed withdrawal of 
American troops will have exactly the opposite effect than its sponsors 
intend.

I ask the Chair, how much time have I used?