# HONORING ROBERT J. O'MALLEY
## `9211933108c7e9dbaababef4b64c9fee`
`Mr. REID — 21 April 2010`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, every one of our servicemembers deserves the 
unqualified appreciation and admiration of the Senate and our entire 
Nation. Today, I wish to salute the service of one such soldier, a man 
who first answered his country's call in World War II and has not 
stopped.

Bob O'Malley served our Nation with distinction in the 10th Mountain 
Division in combat in Europe. He was a sergeant and a squad leader who 
led his men bravely and with honor. He put his life on the line on many 
occasions to protect his men and to fight for freedom against Nazi 
Germany and was recognized with his squad's admiration, the Combat 
Infantry Badge and, because he was wounded, a Purple Heart.

But he has not stopped serving his country. Bob came to Washington in 
1965 and worked for Congressman Robert Sweeney before starting a 27-
year career with the Doorkeeper of the House of Representatives. That 
is where I first met him, as a young Member of Congress. The 
Doorkeeper, Mr. Molloy, and Mr. O'Malley, had a suite of offices and it 
was kind of a hangout for Democratic Members of the House; especially 
it was a way for new Members of the Congress to become acquainted with 
what was going on over there. They were very caring about new Members 
and always pointed us in the right direction. I have always remembered 
those two men for all the good deeds they did on my behalf.

His was a 27-year career with the Doorkeeper. As I indicated, that is 
where I met him. By the time the war in Afghanistan started in 2002, 
Bob had retired from service in the House of Representatives. Most 
retirees are content to seek a well-earned life of leisure, but 
Sergeant O'Malley did not. He signed up for a new and worthy mission, 
waking every day to serve our Nation's wounded warriors. When the war 
started, he went back to work as a volunteer--again a volunteer--
supporting and caring for the men and women of the 10th Mountain 
Division, his old unit. He has made countless visits to Walter Reed, 
this great medical center


where these wounded warriors come to recuperate. On all these visits to 
Walter Reed, he spent countless hours talking and sharing stories about 
the Division and taking his fellow veterans to ball games and other 
events, including the sharing of meals on many occasions. When many of 
these wounded warriors could not make it home for the holiday, Bob 
would reach into his own pocket and pay for Thanksgiving, Christmas, 
and New Years dinners for soldiers and their families at some of the 
finest eateries in the Washington, DC, area. Bob says that helping 
soldiers recover from their war injuries has added years to his life. 
We know it has added years to the lives of those he helps.

Bob O'Malley would be the first to tell you this is not a one-man 
mission. He has had help from many different areas. When he decided to 
help those wounded on the battlefield, for example, he enlisted the 
help of another veteran, Dom Visconsi, Sr., an original member of the 
10th Mountain Division in World War II. He asked Dom to help and Dom 
was happy to help entertain and support these troops. Many of Bob's 
friends soon joined the cause as well, and they are a constant presence 
for the soldiers, whether here or at home. Our Army would not be the 
best place in the world without the work of veterans such as Sergeant 
O'Malley, whose life has been synonymous with service, sacrifice, and 
selflessness.

He is an inspiration to me, our Armed Forces, and our country. He is 
a hero, and I am proud to call him a friend.

Would the Chair announce morning business now.
