# SCHIP
## `92120f44a061f011527e41d216c24914`
`Mr. WALZ of Minnesota — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleagues who are 
here tonight. As a new Member, I am joined by other new Members who 
have been in this body for 9 months. Tomorrow we have an opportunity to 
take an important and historic vote, the veto override on SCHIP.

It is a piece of legislation that many of us believe, as you just 
heard our colleague from Hawaii so clearly illustrate, is critically 
important to the health of our Nation's children.

We came here 9 months ago from the classroom, from the courtroom, 
from the board room, and from the operating room. And we are here 
tonight with a single purpose, to talk about the importance of this 
piece of legislation to clearly illustrate when this body makes a 
choice like we will make tomorrow, and the President talks about it 
being a budgetary issue, he is partially right. Budgets are financial 
documents, but they are also much more. They are a reflection of the 
values that we as a Nation share.

Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to show as a people that we 
value our children. We value their health. We value our future. The 
greatest asset we have is these children.

At my house this weekend was a very special occasion and one I felt 
very blessed to be able to attend. My son, Gus, celebrated his first 
birthday on Saturday. He was surrounded by grandparents, cousins, 
aunts, uncles and friends. A good time was had by all.

I came back to Washington and on Tuesday morning my wife said Gus was 
feeling a little bad, and she took him to see our doctor. Gus had an 
earache and he was put on some antibiotics and he was given a little 
bit of Motrin. He had one rough night, but was feeling better the next 
day.

The thought of this little guy going through any type of pain or 
suffering over something so treatable and so easy to take care of as an 
earache would be unimaginable to me. And yet, that is what happens to 9 
million children across this country. That is what their parents go 
through.

The President has made it clear, those types of issues, and if Gus 
happened to be someone without health insurance, he would have suffered 
through an earache. Or maybe Gus would have a parent who couldn't 
suffer through it and would have taken him to the emergency room where 
it would cost far more.

So my colleagues and I are committed to making sure that no parent 
has to make the choice whether to take their child to get their care. 
That no parent has to have the gut-wrenching experience of deciding if 
they are going to pay bills, or if they are going to try to pay out of 
pocket to get their child covered.

This government and we as a people can do far better. Tonight, we are 
going to take you through the process of this legislation. We are going 
to take our colleagues through everything that is involved and the 
myths that have been perpetuated. This is something that is difficult 
for myself and my colleagues to deal with. We are going to hear from 
people like Dr. Kagen, who has seen what happens if children cannot get 
health care or are suffering with asthma, and he will talk about the 
implications of what it takes to get a child covered.

I think each of my colleagues here tonight will put a face on this 
for you. My colleagues have an opportunity to cast a vote tomorrow to 
override the veto and provide this Nation's children with the health 
care they deserve. It is not a privilege for them, it is a right as an 
American citizen, and we are here to guarantee that. We are here to 
make an investment in our future and do the fiscally responsible thing.

This program is 10 years old now. It has been highly successful. No 
matter what the President said, it is clear, and people need to know 
this, this is a cap block grant program. This is State administered. 
This is private physicians and private insurance. Any words to the 
contrary is muddying the waters on this. We have seen this President 
try this before. He tried to sell this Nation on privatized Social 
Security, and this body said no. This President sold us, and many of us 
feel very strongly about this, sold us on the necessity to go to war in 
Iraq, and here we sit 5 years later understanding the implications of 
that.

We have an administration that is trying to sell this body a bill of 
goods. We are ready to override this veto tomorrow, and my colleagues 
here tonight are ready to illustrate to this body why they should cast 
their vote tomorrow in favor of overriding this veto.

It is a great pleasure to turn over to my good friend from 
neighboring Wisconsin and also one of the very few physicians in this 
body, someone who has worked on these issues his entire life who is 
dedicated to the treatment and making sure our children are healthy, 
and that is my good colleague, Dr. Kagen from Wisconsin.