---
---

# None
## `923dfe1fb094218c9e3181b787a081dc`
`Mr. REED — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I add my commendation to the leaders' 
commendation of COL Michael Barbero.

Colonel Barbero is an extraordinary soldier, a family man, someone 
who has dedicated his whole life to the service of this Nation in the 
uniform of the U.S. Army. He has done it with distinction. He has done 
it with fidelity to the basic ideals of this country. He has 
demonstrated not only great competence but extraordinary character in 
doing that.

Mike graduated from West Point in 1982. I was teaching his class. 
Fortunately for Mike, he avoided my class and therefore prospered as a 
soldier and as a scholar. He later himself went on to the Georgia 
Institute of Technology to receive a master's degree. He returned to 
West Point and taught as a professor in the Department of Systems 
Engineering.

His military career began as an armor officer. He qualified as a U.S. 
Army Ranger. He served in a succession of demanding responsibilities as 
an armor officer, a troop commander, a battalion staff officer, with 
serious contributions as an armor officer in the U.S. Army.

His career represents a continued commitment to excellence as a 
professional and someone who has maintained the highest standards of a 
military officer.

I first got to know Mike when he assisted me on several trips 
overseas. Not only was he extraordinarily competent and well organized, 
he was a decent, cheerful, innovative, and enthusiastic colleague on 
these trips. He made them all work. They were in very difficult 
circumstances in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in every moment--sometimes 
in duress, sometimes in great difficulty--he was unflappably cheerful 
and ingenious and extraordinarily helpful to me.

We all stop and note his service. We also thank him and commend him 
and his family: his lovely wife Vicki, his two children Mary and 
Michael. They are the example of what Americans should be in their 
dedication to country.

The motto of West Point is: Duty, Honor, Country--and no one has 
lived it more significantly than Mike Barbero. I thank him for his 
service and wish him well as he retires.

Thank you, Mr. President.