---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `924686516afec6abb7054db7e3d7a028`
`Mr. REID — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, it is morning here in Washington. It is dusk 
in Baghdad. As we debate this war yet again at home, another day draws 
to a close for our troops in Iraq. Tonight they will sleep on foreign 
sand. Tomorrow they will draw yet again from an endless well of courage 
to face another day of war. Some will likely die. Many will surely be 
wounded. They will face hatred they did not create and violence they 
cannot resolve.

One soldier described the average day as ''being ordered into houses 
without knowing what was behind strangers' doors . . . walking along 
roadsides fearing the next step could trigger lethal explosives.''



The soldier who told that story tragically took his own life while on 
his second deployment. His name was PFC Travis Virgadamo of Las Vegas. 
Travis was 19 years old when he took his life.

As our troops rise in the morning, so will millions of innocent Iraqi 
citizens. Today thousands of Iraqis will abandon their homes and 
neighborhoods to flee as refugees to Iran, Jordan, Syria, and other 
countries. Those Iraqis who remain will face what has become the daily 
norm of life in Iraq--water shortages, no electricity, the constant 
threat of violence, and, as we learned today, cholera, an ancient 
disease that has now hit the ancient land of Iraq. Remember, 1.2 
million Iraqis have been killed since our military invasion. Our 
160,000 or 170,000 courageous troops and those innocent Iraqi men, 
women, and children will wake on the 1,646th day of this war, 1,646 
days and nights of war. I repeat, 1.2 million Iraqis have been killed 
since our military invasion.

Here in Washington, DC, we have a choice to make minutes from now. If 
we reject this amendment before us, this war will rage on and on, with 
no end in sight. Our troops will remain caught in the crossfire of 
another country's civil war. Our Armed Forces will continue to be 
strained to the breaking point. But there is a choice. There can be 
light at the end of this long, dark tunnel. If we stand together and 
adopt this amendment, today can be known as the first day of the end of 
this war, the first day Congress fulfills its constitutional duty to 
have a plan to bring our soldiers and marines home. We can begin to 
return our troops to safety and give them the hero's welcome that has 
been earned and so long in coming. We can refocus our efforts on 
reaching the political solution that all experts, even the President's 
own generals, agree must be achieved. And we can return our focus to 
the grave and growing threat we face from Osama bin Laden and his al-
Qaida network, and others, who have the will and capability to do us 
harm.

I stand today with my colleagues, Senators Levin and Reed, in support 
of this amendment. This is a terrific piece of legislation, legislation 
that recognizes the duties of this separate and equal branch of 
Government, the legislative branch. I am grateful for the few 
Republicans who have shown the courage to join us in a quest to end 
suffering, sorrow, and terror. Countless words, reams of paper, and so 
much ink have been spent on the Iraq debate in the Senate and in the 
country. So let me add this morning that this amendment is a reasonable 
and responsible way forward. This amendment sets a binding path well 
within our constitutional authority and without compromising our 
national security interests. This vote will come down to a question of 
courage and wisdom.

President John Kennedy said:




 A man does what he must--in spite of personal consequences, 


 in spite of obstacles and dangers and pressures--and that is 


 the basis of all human morality.


In just a few hours it will be sundown, beginning the holiest day of 
the year for those of the Jewish faith, Yom Kippur. Reflecting on that, 
one needs only to look at the Old Testament, the book of Job, where Job 
asks: ''But where shall wisdom be found?''

I say wisdom lies with the American people, a strong majority of 
Democrats, Republicans, and Independents who so oppose this war. I hope 
wisdom is found on the Senate floor today as well; that we follow the 
wishes, the demands, the hopes, and the prayers of the American people. 
When our grandchildren and generations to come study this war and this 
Government, I pray they will be able to say this was a turning point in 
a war that has cost us so much. I ask my Republican colleagues for the 
courage and wisdom to join the American people and bring our troops 
home. Courage and wisdom demands that we do such.

I ask unanimous consent to start the vote. We will make sure that 
everyone has ample time to vote. We will vote as if it started at 10.