# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9250fd173ca4b496ce28c852e2fff7ca`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota â€” 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding. I will overlook the ''ex-Marine'' slight. Never an ex-Marine; 
always a Marine.

It is a tremendous honor for me today to even be on the same floor as 
this great American here. We heard earlier today the hardship of some 
of our servicemen and -women missing a holiday with their families, and 
I know in my 25 years in the Marines I missed a number of those. But 
there is nobody who has missed more holidays with his family than this 
great American next to me.

We have heard a lot of speeches during this so-called debate. I am 
not sure how much real debate there is, but certainly a lot of 
speeches. Some of them have been very eloquent. I think of Mr. McHugh 
the other night giving one of the best speeches I have ever heard on 
the floor of this House. Some of them have been partisan. Some of them 
have been shrill. Some persuasive; some not. We have heard a number of 
opinions expressed, and it reminds me a week or so ago we had a hearing 
in the Armed Services Committee and we had three experts, Ph.D.s all of 
them, experts in the field of international relations and military 
operations.

One of them, the former Secretary of Defense under President Clinton, 
and it turns out that at the end of the hearing, each of the three of 
them had a different idea about what we ought to do. None of them 
supported what the President had been doing. One of them sort of 
supported what the President was doing. But each of them had different 
ideas. They had an opinion, arguably an informed opinion, but an 
opinion nevertheless.

And on this floor we have heard more opinions. We have heard people 
say, I don't agree with this; I think this is a bad idea; or I think 
this is a good idea. We have heard some people say I have a better 
idea; or I am a member of a caucus who has a better idea; or I propose 
this; or I think that. And it kind of reminds me why it is a very bad 
idea to conduct a war by committee. But I fully acknowledge that people 
are allowed to have opinions and certainly every Member of this body 
can have an opinion.

I remember the principal author of this resolution before us, the 
distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee, stood up on the 
other side of the aisle here on the first day of this debate and he 
said, ''Everybody is entitled to their own opinions but not to their 
own facts.'' So I would just like to take a little bit of my remaining 
time here to talk about some of the claims and some of the facts that 
have been brought forward in this debate.

One of the proponents said the new plan ''ignores the recommendations 
of the military commanders on the ground.'' How many times have we 
heard that in these two days? Well, what is the truth? General 
Petraeus, the new commander of the multinational force in Iraq, 
confirmed by the Senate with no dissenting votes, said: ''If we are to 
carry out the multinational force-Iraq mission in accordance with the 
new strategy, the additional forces that have been directed to move to 
Iraq will be essential . . . '' He said that last month.

General Odierno, a new U.S. commander, Corps commander, says: ''This 
is about Iraqis taking charge of their own security. In order for them 
to do that, we have to buy them time to continue to train and for the 
government to become more legitimate to the eyes of the Iraqi people. 
They are doing that by moving forward. By bringing more troops in, it 
provides us the opportunity to work with them, to provide more time, 
and defeat this threat, which is both al Qaeda threat as well as 
sectarian violence.''

Even General Casey last month said he thought we needed more troops.

Another claim has been by one of our colleagues: ''Prime Minister al-
Maliki has indicated in virtually every way he can that he too opposes 
the surge.'' And yet on January 13, Prime Minister Maliki said: ''The 
strategic plan announced by U.S. President George W. Bush represents 
the common vision and mutual understanding between the Iraqi Government 
and the U.S. Administration''?

I have more examples here, but one that we have heard over and over 
and over again in various forms was stated by one of our colleagues 
yesterday saying: ''Our President, again, is ignoring . . . members of 
the bipartisan Iraq Study Group who opposed this escalation.''

This is the book. I commend it to every American.

I would like to quote now from my dear, dear long-time friend and 
hunting partner, the former Secretary of State, James A. Baker III, who 
said on January 30 of this year: ''This is the language and all of the 
language of the report with respect to a surge: 'We could, however, 
support a short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to 
stabilize Baghdad or to speed up the training and equipping mission if 
the U.S. commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be 
effective.' The only two conditions are 'short term' and 'the commander 
in Iraq determines it would be effective.' ''

Both of these conditions have been met.

There have been many claims of fact which I have some 
counterarguments with.

I would just say to all of my colleagues that I would concur with 
Chairman Skelton that we are entitled to our own opinion. We can 
certainly express it. But we are not, in fact, entitled to our own 
facts. So let's stick to the facts.