---
---

# RECOGNIZING COMMAND SERGEANT MAJOR GEORGE Q. CRISOSTOMO
## `925189a4063c2000353f5b1b673da442`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 9 January 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize CSM George Q. 
Crisostomo on the occasion of his retirement from the United States 
Army after 28 years of service.

Command Sergeant Major Crisostomo has served our country with 
distinction both in peacetime and wartime. His exemplary service 
includes assignments as a Drill Sergeant at Fort Benning, Georgia, and 
as a Senior ROTC Instructor in Puerto Rico. He served his first combat 
tour in support of Operation Desert Storm as a Platoon Sergeant while 
assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 17th Infantry (RAKASSAN), 101st Airborne 
Division (Air Assault), Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Most recently, Command 
Sergeant Major Crisostomo served a combat tour in support of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom as a Command Sergeant Major with the 1st Battalion, 17th 
Infantry Regiment, Fort Wainwright, Alaska.

Throughout his Army career, Command Sergeant Major Crisostomo 
distinguished himself as a leader, serving in positions where soldiers 
relied upon him for guidance, experience, and knowledge. In addition to 
his leadership assignments in combat and service as an instructor, 
Command Sergeant Major Crisostomo has served as a Scout Team Leader, 
Squad Leader, Platoon Sergeant, Company First Sergeant, and Battalion 
Command Sergeant Major. He was a ''soldier's soldier.''

Command Sergeant Major Crisostomo's exemplary service earned him 
numerous awards and military decorations including the Legion of Merit, 
Bronze Star with one Oak Leaf Cluster and the Meritorious Service 
Medal. He also earned the Expert and Combat Infantryman badges. Command 
Sergeant Major Crisostomo received the Korea National Defense Service 
Medal, the Southwest Asia Service Medal, the Iraqi Campaign Medal, and 
the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal.

I wish to recognize the sacrifices and support of Command Sereant 
Major Crisostomo's family, especially his wife, Claire. I also 
recognize the positive influence that he has had in preparing his 
children for their futures. His daughter, Jenna Lynn, is now a senior 
at the University of Arizona, and his son, SGT Joshua D. Crisostomo, is 
following in his footsteps and is currently serving in Iraq with the 
2nd Battalion, 14th Infantry, 10th Mountain Division, Fort Drum, New 
York.

On behalf of the people of Guam and a grateful Nation, we 
congratulate Command Sergeant Major Crisostomo and his family as he 
retires from the United States Army, and we wish him the very best in 
his future endeavors.
