# FRESHMEN REPUBLICAN HOUR
## `925ec33aa92a4816deecc38a09ed99c3`
`Mr. LANCE — 15 December 2009`

---


Mr. LANCE. Thank you very much, Congresswoman Lummis, for your 
leadership. And certainly, it is a pleasure to be associated with this 
Special Order. And I commend you for your knowledge about what is 
occurring here in Washington. It's also a pleasure, always, to see our 
distinguished freshman colleague, Congresswoman Dahlkemper in the 
chair.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to draw this body's attention yet again 
to our ever increasing national debt. In the next day or so, we're 
going to be asked to vote to raise our Nation's statutory debt limit.

Back in April, the Democratic majority voted to raise the debt 
ceiling here in the House by $800 billion, and that would increase it 
to $13.29 trillion. That bill is still pending in the Senate. Now we 
are being told that due to the pace of spending of the administration 
and the congressional majority, an $800 billion increase in the debt 
ceiling will not be enough to get us through this fiscal year. We've 
been told that we will ultimately need to raise the debt limit by 
nearly $2 trillion, and that will be a total debt ceiling of roughly 
$14 trillion.


Some blame the previous administration and the previous majority for 
our current fiscal situation. The fact is that the $2 trillion increase 
needed for next year is roughly equal to the total budget deficits from 
2001 to 2008. It is also true that prior to the onset of the economic 
crisis, the budget deficit had been decreasing for the previous 3 
fiscal years, reaching a low of $160 billion in 2007.

2008 then saw a dramatic increase in the deficit as we started 
dealing with the fiscal crisis, and we hit a $454.8 billion deficit in 
2008. Unfortunately, the deficit for fiscal year 2009, which ended on 
September 30, nearly quadrupled to $1.47 trillion due to the TARP 
program, as Congresswoman Lummis has explained, and spending in the 
stimulus bill and other aspects of spending this year. Now we are being 
told that for 2010, we must go another $2 trillion in debt.

I implore our colleagues to stand with us in insisting that we get 
this spending under control and do so now. The pace of irresponsible 
spending is not only unsustainable; it is dangerous to the long-term 
viability of our economy and, indeed, it is a matter of national 
security. This Congress must impose some kind of restriction on 
spending, and I will not be supporting any increase in our statutory 
debt limit unless it is directly attached to implementation of a 
bipartisan commission tasked with advising Congress on how to get its 
spending under control as quickly as possible.



I remain disappointed to hear that a $2 trillion increase may be 
attached to a bill to fund the military, including funding for our 
brave men and women currently serving in combat in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We all wholeheartedly support our military and believe it 
should be provided the funding it needs. The attempt, however, to use 
the military as a political tool to pass a potentially massive increase 
in our debt limit is terrible public policy. There should be an up-or-
down vote on raising our debt ceiling.

As a matter of history, Madam Speaker, in this decade, in 2001 there 
was a budget surplus of $128 billion; in 2002 the deficit for that year 
was $157 billion; the next year $377; the next year $412; the year 
after that $318; the year after that $248; the year after that $160; 
and the year after that $454 for a total for the 8 prior years, from 
2001 to 2008, of $2 trillion. That is 8 years. I am not excusing that. 
That is a great deal of money.

This year, however, in the fiscal year that ended on September 30, we 
had a 1-year deficit of $1.47 trillion. That's $2 trillion over the 8 
years between 2001 and 2008, and in the fiscal year that ended this 
September 30, roughly $1.5 trillion. And that will be replicated again 
this year in the fiscal year in which we now find ourselves.