---
---

# None
## `9262c76b0e8e42798be45534b6e57e1f`
`Mr. CAMPBELL — 8 July 2009`

---


Mr. CAMPBELL. Mr. Chairman, as I said, I appreciate the gentleman 
from Indiana's eloquent defense of this, and I understand his point. 
But there are roughly 400 earmarks in this bill; and at some point, Mr. 
Chairman, we've got to stop. And one of the things the gentleman 
mentioned was that we're helping farmers in Afghanistan farm and should 
we do this or do that? But the fact is, we're doing both. And the fact 
is that many times in this Chamber we decide to spend money on 
everything. Let's spend money on this farm here and this farm here, and 
this crop here and this crop there, and this State here and this State 
there, and this country here and this country there. And it's that kind 
of spending where we aren't making the choices to spend on some things 
and not on others, where we aren't making the decision to spend within 
our means, where we aren't deciding that, we're not going to borrow the 
money, we're not going to tax them more money. We're going to take what 
we have, and we're going to it allocate that as efficiently as we can 
to the places we think are the most important and not just do it to 
everything has got stop, Mr. Chairman. I would suggest to my friends on 
the other side of the aisle, I understand that perhaps you think this 
is important, but what's more important is $2 trillion in additional 
debt this year, $13 trillion in debt overall, 46 cents on every dollar 
being borrowed, and most of it being borrowed from foreign nations and 
that it doesn't ever stop. According to the President's budget, it goes 
on and on and on. We have got to stop that.

I would just suggest that maybe we start with things like this. It 
isn't about whether the bureaucracy spends this or not. This bill would 
save that $235,000 and not borrow any more money. Whether it's here or 
somewhere else, at some point, Mr. Chairman, we have to begin to 
control the spending and not borrow and deficit spend so much. I just 
hope if we can't start tonight, let's start tomorrow.

I yield back the balance of my time.