---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `928cd64e0a9f434e1ce94c5b3e96fd76`
`Mr. AKIN — 1 April 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. I think that it's kind of interesting. People have said 
that America is becoming a socialized Nation, just like the countries 
over in Europe, a socialized Nation. But that's not a fair thing to say 
because with this level of debt, the Europeans wouldn't even accept us 
as part of the European Union.

I've noticed tonight that we have spent more time blaming President 
Bush than talking about the positive solution of a Democrat budget. And 
that's not a good sign when we spend--at midnight--talking about how 
bad Bush is when we're supposed to be debating a Democrat budget.

I don't think the Democrats are proud of this budget. And if I were 
the Democrats, I wouldn't be proud of the budget either.

While we're talking about President Bush though, I have got some 
numbers so we can just do a direct comparison and just see what is the 
difference here.

Just in the last couple of months--we're only just finishing up 
March--we've got the second half of the Wall Street bailout. That's 
about $350 billion. We burned through the economic stimulus--or the 
porkulus bill--$787 billion.

Now if you were to add will of the cost of the war in Iraq, all of 
the cost of the war in Afghanistan, and add it altogether, it would be 
less than this thing. Then you've got the omnibus deal. Hey, we're 
starting to spend some real money.

Let's take a look at a comparison. If we want to talk about Bush, we 
can blame the hurricane on him. We've already done that. It's really 
bad when a President brings a hurricane in.

Let's talk about this annual budget deficit. This is the average 
annual deficit under Bush--$300 billion. We're not proud of that. But 
the current President's budget--this is what they're proposing--has got 
him beat two to one. I'm not sure I'd be proud of that number.

Here's the highest deficit when the Democrats were in the House under 
Bush, $459 billion. But, oh, President Obama, his projection is $1.2 
trillion. Clear winner by more than two to one. Then, the increase in 
national debt, $2.5 trillion, $4.9 trillion. Again, a two to one.

When you take a look at it, here's what it looks like. Every one of 
these lines going down is a deficit. Now does anybody see something 
disturbing in this pattern?

Now we have heard the gentlelady from New York is bragging about the 
fact that given some time, this number here, the low number, is going 
to be cut in half. That doesn't give me any sense of satisfaction at 
all. If I looked at that, I'd say, Holy smokes, I'm moving to some 
other country. These people in America have been smoking funny 
cigarettes. What in the world are they doing with this deficit?