---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `92a1da957f4cfe999b47b2a4cca5dd04`
`Mr. McCAIN — 18 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I would like to repeat what my friend 
and distinguished chairman said: We need to get opening statements 
done. The debate has now begun on the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008. We are looking at the date of September 18, 
and we want to get this bill done as quickly as possible and to 
conference with the House so we can provide the much needed equipment, 
training, pay, and care for our veterans as well as our military 
personnel. I urge my colleagues, if they have any statements to make on 
this bill, that they come over and make them.

I also would like to point out, as my friend from Michigan has, that 
we will be working on the large number of amendments on the bill as 
well as the provisions on Iraq. The sooner we complete action on this 
legislation, the sooner we can get it to conference with the other body 
and to the President's desk for signature.

This is not the first time we have addressed this bill, and I hope it 
is the last for the National Defense Authorization Act, at least for 
fiscal year 2008. I again express my appreciation and admiration for 
the distinguished chairman, Senator Levin, who has not only worked 
closely with this side of the aisle but also has worked very hard to 
forge a bipartisan bill that received a unanimous vote from the 
committee


upon its reporting to the floor of the Senate. Obviously, we have a 
great debate here again on the issue of Iraq with the consideration of 
several amendments, so I hope we will be able to also dispose of those 
as quickly as possible.

As all of my colleagues know, we have received the much anticipated 
testimony of GEN David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker, and the 
Senate now begins a debate of historic proportions. In my opinion, at 
stake is nothing less than the future of Iraq, the Middle East, and the 
security of all Americans for decades to come. The Senate faces a 
series of stark choices: whether to build on the success of the surge 
and fight for additional gains or whether to set a date for Americans 
to surrender in Iraq and thereby suffer the terrible consequences that 
will ensue. As we consider each of the Iraq-related amendments filed on 
this bill, let us understand the enormous consequences of decisions 
that are taken here.

Henry Kissinger framed the debate in a Washington Post article this 
weekend, saying:




 American decisions in the next few months will affect the 


 confidence and morale of potential targets, potential allies, 


 and radical Jihadists around the globe. Above all, they will 


 define the U.S. capacity to contribute to a safer and better 


 world.


I ask unanimous consent to have the article by Dr. Kissinger from the 
Washington Post over the weekend printed in the Record at this time.