# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `92b4ee64f703930bfb7e3ecee850682f`
`Mr. LEAHY — 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the supplemental contains a provision, 
section 1711, which was carefully worked out through discussions 
between my office, the offices of Senator Specter, Senator Brownback, 
Senator Kennedy, Senator Coleman and Senator Feingold, as well as with 
representatives of the Department of Homeland Security, the Department 
of Justice, the Department of State, and the National Security Council.

This provision contains six subsections, (a) through (f).

Subsections (a) and (d) were written by the administration.

Subsections (b) and (f) were written by the Senator from Arizona, 
Senator Kyl.

Subsection (c) provides an exception for cases involving duress, 
which is consistent with the administration's policy except that this 
provision would codify it into law.

Section (e) is a reporting requirement.

That is the whole provision. It represents months of discussion and 
compromise on an issue that has been a focus of concern of faith-based 
organizations and humanitarian organizations, conservative and liberal, 
Democratic and Republican.

Here is the background.

Current law, as a result of overbroad amendments in the PATRIOT Act 
and Real ID Act, has been used to bar refugees and asylum seekers who 
were either members of groups who fought on the side of the United 
States, such as the Hmong, the Montagnards, and the Northern Alliance 
in Afghanistan, or who were the victims of terrorist groups and forced 
to provide ''material support,'' such as food, shelter, or other 
services.

Administration officials have acknowledged that they have been 
inexcusably slow to deal with this problem. Thousands of refugees and 
hundreds of asylum seekers have been in limbo as a result. We now face 
the additional problem of Iraqi refugees, 7,000 of whom the President 
says should be admitted to the United States, being barred from 
admission unless we fix the law.

After considerable prodding, the administration has moved in the 
right direction. Two weeks ago, it took another welcome step, although 
we have not yet seen the results of this reported change of policy.

The number of refugees admitted to the United States would not be 
increased or decreased by this provision. That is determined by the 
numerical limit set by the President each year and by the amount we 
appropriate for refugee admissions.

Numerous editorials have described the horrific consequences for 
refugees who have been victimized by current law.

Just the titles of these editorials tell the story: ''Shutting Out 
Terrorism's Victims,'' ''Doctors Without Refuge,'' ''Anti-terror laws 
keeping out old Vietnam allies,'' ''Punishing the Persecuted,'' ''U.S. 
denies refuge to friends, the abused,'' ''The Refugee Mess,'' 
''Excluding Friends,'' and finally, ''Fix This Law.''

I will ask that just three of these editorials be printed in the 
Record at the close of my remarks.

This provision is a compromise that would get our law back in sync 
with our values, but now the Senator from Arizona, Mr. Kyl, has raised 
a rule XVI point of order against this provision and had it stricken 
from the bill.

It is regrettable that one Senator, for whatever reason, has decided 
to torpedo this bipartisan effort. We have worked with the 
administration. We have worked with refugee organizations that know the 
hardship current law is causing for thousands of innocent people, 
legitimate refugees and asylum seekers, who have been denied admission. 
We have worked to find a reasonable middle ground.

But that isn't good enough for the Senator from Arizona, so we are 
back to square one. Individuals who fought alongside the United States 
in Vietnam, in Afghanistan, and elsewhere will continue to be barred 
under current law. Our provision would have fixed this illogical, 
unfair result, but now that provision has been stricken so those former 
allies--the Hmong, the Montagnards and others--will remain excluded.

Innocent victims of the material support bar will continue to wait 
for the Federal bureaucracy to address their cases--a wait that is well 
into its third year. Victims of terrorist groups like the FARC in 
Colombia or the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda get no help from the 
Congress.

I regret this action by the Senator from Arizona. By striking this 
provision he ensures the perpetuation of a policy that is contrary to 
our values, to our morals, and to our national traditions.

I wish to thank all Senators who have joined in this effort but 
particularly Senator Brownback, Senator Specter, Senator Kennedy, 
Senator Coleman, and Senator Feingold. I also wish to thank 
representatives of the humanitarian and other groups who have provided 
helpful information and advice, as well as officials in the 
administration who have made a sincere effort to work with us.

While the Senator from Arizona has singlehandedly prevented us from 
moving forward at this time, we will continue to work together to fix 
the law in a manner that reaffirms our commitment to the words that are 
carved in the Statue of Liberty.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the aforementioned 
editorials be printed in the Record.