# COMMITTEE FUNDING RESOLUTION
## `92b51f56a4ca6b5624bb4d5194e4d0c9`
`Ms. MILLENDER-McDONALD — 8 March 2007`

---


Ms. MILLENDER-McDONALD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

I would like to thank the ranking member, Mr. Ehlers, and all of the 
members on the Committee on House Administration for their assistance 
in meeting a very tight schedule. We have been able to perform what 
normally takes many months in a much shorter time period. 
Unfortunately, that necessitated some quick decisions, which we would 
all have preferred more time to make.

I would also like to thank the Chairs and the ranking members of the 
committees for meeting the deadline that I set forth. I know that there 
were concerns about foreshortening the process, but this resolution 
will provide for operating certainty.

The committee's recommendations are driven by the amount of funds 
available to be allocated to the committees. The continuing resolution, 
the CR, funding all government operations contained a very modest 
amount for committees, and it is the CR funds which my committee had to 
work with.

All committees which testified were treated in exactly the same way. 
At our hearing, the first question of each committee was, Is the 
minority satisfied with the allocation of funds for its operations? 
Almost without exception, Mr. Speaker, the minority expressed 
satisfaction. Even when there was initial disagreement, the chairman 
and ranking member found common ground before the House Administration 
markup.

This committee recognizes that each standing committee carefully 
assessed its anticipated workload and requested all of its sums it 
considered necessary to discharge its responsibilities. Unfortunately, 
when the 109th Congress adjourned, the fiscal 2007 appropriations 
process was unfinished. That led to the CR, which greatly limited this 
committee's options in the authorization process for the 110th 
Congress. And with severely limited resources, my committee was able to 
recommend across-the-board inflationary adjustments of 2.6 percent for 
2007, and 2.94 percent for 2008. Without additional appropriations, no 
further adjustments were possible.

My committee's amendment in the nature of a substitute authorizes 
$280,234,490 for the entire 110th Congress, and that includes funding 
for the select committee just added by the rule.

The committee believes that the Chairs and ranking members will 
shepherd their resources carefully and despite the approximately $1 
million shortfall will still be able to fulfill their responsibilities 
to the House. The lone panel to receive a supplemental amount was the 
Armed Services Committee, which bears an exceptionally heavy burden and 
must be considered a special case.

The war in Iraq has taken the lives of more than 3,000 American 
service personnel, wounded tens of thousands more, and consumed 
hundreds of billions of dollars over the last 4 years. The Armed 
Services Committee has an enormous responsibility going forward and 
must have the resources with which to oversee America's military policy 
in Iraq and around the world.



Given the gravity of Armed Services' task, House Administration 
recommended an additional increase of $500,000 for 2007. While 
appropriations for 2008 have yet to be enacted, the committee's 
amendment reflects the best assessment by the appropriators and by the 
House financial managers of the amount that will be available to 
support committees during the second session.

Committee workloads increase during the second session of any 
Congress, and I expect this pattern to continue as committees engage in 
the critical legislative and oversight work which the American people 
voted for last November.

As I indicated earlier, every effort was made to ensure that the 
fairness principle was applied during the funding process. The purpose 
is to ensure that the minority party can serve as the loyal opposition 
and contribute fully to the legislative and oversight initiatives of 
each committee.

The fairness principle takes the form of the one-third rule, which 
was advocated by both Republicans and Democrats when they served in the 
minority. The committee believes the principle has now become firmly 
established in the allocation of resources, committee by committee, and 
that irrespective of which party is in the majority, the one-third rule 
will be carried forward. Each committee must nonetheless implement the 
principle consistent with its own operating practices and procedures. 
As Chairs and ranking members change from Congress to Congress, the 
committee expects that the fairness principle will continue to address 
the needs of the minority.

There were many concerns expressed during this year's truncated 
funding process, not the least of which was the overall inadequacy of 
funds to meet the collective needs of the committees. From the 
beginning of the Congress, even before the adoption of the CR, 
committees were counseled to operate on a flatline spending basis in 
order to avoid a shortfall later in the Congress. Most committees 
followed that guideline and many kept their eventual funding requests 
within a few percentage points of the flatline spending rate of the 
preceding session, one committee even restraining its request to 
preclude an inflation adjustment for both personnel costs and operating 
expenses.

The committee appreciates the efforts of committees to keep their 
requests as low as feasible, given the backlog of the oversight 
responsibilities to be carried out and the legislative agenda set out 
by the House leadership. However, the committee recognizes the 
continuing needs of many committees to support and expand their 
agendas. As a result, both I and the ranking member, Mr. Ehlers, 
indicated that if additional funds became available for distribution, 
the committee would entertain future requests to supplement the 
authorized levels in this resolution.

In addition to the Chairs' and ranking members' concerns about the 
overall spending shortfall and the impact on staffing levels, there 
were additional concerns expressed about the ability of committees to 
attract and maintain senior legislative and oversight professionals 
because the current salary cap is not competitive with the private 
sector. A few committees indicated that some new employees were 
accepting committee positions at salaries below their previous private 
sector levels based upon a desire to perform public service, and we are 
very grateful to those staff persons who have done that and will do 
that. While this is laudable, and some individuals may be willing to 
make such sacrifices, it remains imperative that committee salary caps 
become competitive or congressional oversight will suffer.

Another theme carried forward from the 109th Congress committee 
funding process was crowding, insufficient office space to manage and 
maintain operations and adequately house the staff necessary to perform 
the legislative and oversight duties. While some committee have 
received additional work space, it is often in other buildings, and not 
even contiguous to other committee offices, making it very difficult to 
work. This broken-up space introduces operation inefficiencies, and we 
recognize that, Mr. Speaker. And while the committee does not assign or 
manage office space, it agreed to bring the committee's overall office 
space concerns to the attention of the House leadership in the hope 
that future building changes or innovations will take committee needs 
into consideration.

Again, I thank all of the members on the Committee on House 
Administration. I thank the ranking member, Mr. Ehlers, and all of 
those committee members, both sides of the aisle, who partook of this 
extremely long hearing that we got all of the committees and the 
ranking members in, and I applaud all of them for their tolerance.

And with that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.