---
---

# IRAQI HYDROCARBON LAW
## `92d0370be8ac7777099635146252e405`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Madam Speaker, I submit the following for the Record:

 Read the Iraqi Parliament's Hydrocarbon Law: The Iraqi ''Hydrocarbon 
 Law'' Contains Three Sentences on Oil Revenue Sharing and 33 Pages on 














 Privatization




 Dear Colleague: An issue of critical importance, the Iraqi 


 ''Hydrocarbon Law'', was again broached yesterday for the 


 third time in the Democratic Caucus and I want to provide you 


 the facts and evidence to support the concerns I have 


 expressed.



 As you know, the Administration set several benchmarks for 


 the Iraqi government, including passage of the ''Hydrocarbon 


 Law'' by the Iraqi Parliament. The Administration misled 


 Congress by emphasizing only a small part of this law, the 


 ''fair'' distribution of oil revenues. Consider the fact that 


 the Iraqi ''Hydrocarbon Law'' contains a mere three sentences 


 that generally discuss the ''fair'' distribution of oil.



 Except for three scant lines, the entire 33 page 


 ''Hydrocarbon Law'' is about creating a complex legal 


 structure to facilitate the privatization of Iraqi oil. As 


 such, it is imperative that all of us carefully read the 


 Iraqi Parliament's bill because the FY07 Iraq Supplemental 


 puts Congress on the record in promoting oil privatization.



 The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, 


 and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007, released 


 yesterday, contains Sec. 1330(2)(A) requiring a report by the 


 President on ''whether the Government of Iraq has enacted a 


 broadly accepted hydro-carbon law that equitably shares oil 


 revenues among all Iraqis.'' The Iraqi ''Hydrocarbon Law'' is 


 not broadly accepted and does far more than share revenues. 


 The final 3 months of war funding are tied to the favorable 


 completion of this report and a favorable vote by Congress.



 It is also important to highlight Sec. 1311(2) of the 


 Supplemental bill, which prohibits funds ''to exercise United 


 States control over any oil resource of Iraq.'' The crucial 


 issue is not the U.S. government control of Iraqi oil 


 resources. Rather the issue is Congress passing a measure 


 that pressures Iraq to pass their ''Hydrocarbon Act'' so 


 that multinational oil corporations (many based in the 


 U.S.) will exercise control over Iraqi oil resources.



 Here are the annotated facts, according to reliable media 


 sources:













Foreign Oil Company Control




 ''The law, if passed, is expected to open the country's 


 billions of barrels of proven oil reserves, the world's third 


 largest, to foreign investors.''



 ''Under the new law, the Iraq National Oil Company would 


 have exclusive control of only about 17 of Iraq's 


 approximately 80 known oil fields.''



 ''The law would also allow the government to negotiate 


 different kinds of exploration and production contracts with 


 foreign oil companies, including Production Sharing 


 Agreements, or PSAs. Energy lawyers favor these because they 


 allow oil companies to secure long-term deals and book oil 


 reserves as assets on their company balance sheets.''



 ''The proposal would provide for production sharing 


 agreements that would give international firms 70 per cent of 


 the oil revenues to recover their initial investments and 


 subsequently allow them 20 per cent of the profits without 


 any tax or restrictions on the transferring of funds abroad.



 ''Energy lawyers agree. ''Pretty much all the major oil 


 companies are taking a very close interest in the future 


 potential in Iraq,'' says Mathew Kidwell, a partner in the 


 Dubai office of Fulbright & Jaworski. ''We have certainly had 


 discussions with a number of our oil industry clients about 


 the legal framework.'' ''












Iraqi Self Governance Threatened




 The unions were kept in the dark, as were most members of 


 Iraq's parliament, until the draft law was leaked to the 


 media. Even then it was still out of the reach of most of 


 Iraq's citizens.



 ''Iraq will not be capable of controlling the levels--the 


 limits of production, which means that Iraq cannot be a part 


 of OPEC anymore. And Iraq will have this very complicated 


 institution called the Federal Oil and Gas Council, that will 


 have representatives from the foreign oil companies on the 


 board of it, so representatives from, let's say, ExxonMobil 


 and Shell and British Petroleum will be on the federal 


 board of Iraq approving their own contracts.''



 ''Under the proposed law, foreign companies would not have 


 to invest their earnings in Iraq, hire Iraqi workers, or 


 partner with Iraqi companies.''



 ''Iraq's oil unions have threatened to shutdown production 


 if foreign companies are allowed too much control.''



 ''The Iraq National Oil Co. would restart but compete with 


 foreign oil companies, who could win contracts giving them 


 partial ownership of the respective fields.''












Persuasion by Foreign Occupiers




 ''The British Government intervened to help UK and US 


 energy giants in their attempts to secure lucrative contracts 


 to exploit Iraq's ruined oilfields.''



 ''The Foreign Office delivered a report by the 


 International Tax and Investment Center (ITIC)--a Washington-


 based think-tank backed by a host of multinationals, 


 including oil companies such as Shell and BP--to Iraqi 


 officials in Baghdad, it has emerged.''



 ''The British ambassador to Iraq formally sent the 'road-


 map' study on the Iraqi oil industry to the then Iraqi 


 minister of finance, according to documents seen by The 


 Independent on Sunday. The study recommended the Iraqi 


 government sign long-term production-sharing agreements with 


 foreign oil companies.''



 ''The ITIC hosted a conference in Beirut in January 2005 to 


 give a formal presentation to Iraqi ministers. Executives 


 from BP, Shell, ChevronTexaco, the Italian oil company ENI 


 and its French rival Total attended.''



 If the above quotes are not persuasive, then I highly 


 encourage you to read the Iraqi ''Hydrocarbon Law'' yourself. 


 It is available, not because the Iraqi government released 


 it, but because the Kurds released it. This version passed 


 the Iraq Cabinet, and was referred to the Parliament. http://
web.krg.org/uploads/documents/Draft%20Iraq%20 Oil%20 and 


 %20 Gas %20 Law %20 English _2007_ 03_09_ h17m2s47.pdf



 The following highlights are the major concerns of the 


 Iraqi ''Hydrocarbon Law'':



 The legislation ensures that the ''Chief Executives of 


 important related petroleum companies'' are represented on 


 the Federal Oil and Gas Council, which approves oil and gas 


 contracts. This is akin to the foreign oil companies 


 approving their own contracts.



 The legislation ensures the Iraq National Oil Company has 


 no exclusive rights for exploration, development, production, 


 transportation, and marketing. The Iraq National Oil Company 


 must compete against foreign oil companies with rules that 


 benefit the foreign oil companies.



 The legislation gives the Iraq National Oil Company some 


 control of developed oil fields and ''rights to participate'' 


 in undeveloped oil fields in Annex I and II, but these 


 Annexes have never been made public.



 The legislation gives the Iraq National Oil Company 


 temporary control of the oil pipelines and export terminals, 


 but then directs the Federal Oil and Gas Council to turn 


 these assets over to any entity with no further instructions. 


 The opportunity for a foreign oil company to have control 


 over the Iraqi oil pipeline and export terminals would give 


 that company enormous control of the Iraqi oil market.



 The legislation demands that ''contracts must guarantee the 


 best levels of coordination'' with the Oil Ministry, Iraq 


 National Oil Company, the regions and oil companies. The 


 legislation mandates that undeveloped oil fields be developed 


 quickly and oil companies are given explicit authority to 


 ''collaborate.''



 The legislation does not require contracts to be published 


 for public review up to two months after the approval.



 The legislation contains only three sentences in regards to 


 the fair distribution of oil, but do not resolve any of the 


 issues facing this challenge. The legislation simply requires 


 that future legislation be submitted for approval. Thus, this 


 legislation does not even meet the President's benchmark.



 The legislation provides up to 35 years of exclusive 


 control over oil fields for foreign oil companies.



 The legislation provides for a preference to Iraqis for 


 jobs and services, but only if these benefits do not place 


 extra costs or inconveniences on the foreign oil companies.



 This war was about oil. We must not be party to the 


 Administration's blatant attempt to set the stage for 


 multinational oil companies to take over Iraq's oil 


 resources. The war in Iraq is a stain on American history. 


 Let us not further besmirch our nation by participating in 


 the outrageous exploitation of a nation which is in shambles 


 due to U.S. intervention.



 Please join me in seeking to remove any reference to the 


 Iraqi ''Hydrocarbon Law'' in the war spending bill.





 Sincerely,























 Dennis J. Kucinich,


 Member of Congress.