# IRAQ
## `92e26beb778e8676b2480ae125c7a826`
`Mr. DURBIN â€” 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, an historic vote was announced in the 
House Chamber moments ago. By a vote of 246 to 182, the House of 
Representatives, in a bipartisan rollcall vote, has approved the 
resolution relative to the President's call for escalation of the 
number of troops serving in Iraq. That resolution is fewer than 60 
words in length, and I believe it should be read into the Record. This 
is a resolution which we are hoping to bring to the Senate floor 
tomorrow so that the debate can begin in this Chamber. It reads:




 Congress and the American people will continue to support 


 and protect the members of the United States Armed Forces 


 who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably 


 in Iraq; Congress disapproves of the decision of President 


 George W. Bush announced on January 10, 2007, to deploy 


 more than 20,000 additional United States combat troops to 


 Iraq.


It is unembellished, it is straightforward, and it states a position. 
Those who agree with this resolution, as I do, should be heard. Those 
who disagree and believe we should escalate the number of troops in 
this war have a right to be heard as well. That is the nature of this 
institution. It is the nature of our democracy.

For the Republicans to continue to threaten a filibuster to stop the 
debate in the Senate so that Members of the Senate cannot come forward 
and express themselves and vote on this issue is wrong. It is unfair. 
It is inconsistent with the reason we ran for office. We were asked by 
the people kind enough to entrust us with this responsibility to face 
the issues of our times, to address those issues in a responsible 
manner, to have a civilized debate on the


floor of the Senate, and to take a vote and take a stand. We are 
expected to do that.

We are not expected to waffle and weave and avoid the obvious. This 
is the issue of the moment. It is the issue of our time. With over 
130,000 American soldiers' lives on the line, it is unacceptable that 
the minority would stop us from debating this issue. It is unacceptable 
to our troops and to their families who wait anxiously to know what 
their fate will be. It is unacceptable to the rest of the Nation, which 
expects the Senate to be a full partner in congressional debate.

It takes 60 votes to bring a measure to the floor in the Senate. On 
the Democratic side, with one absence by illness, we have 50. We need 
the cooperation of the Republicans to even debate the issue. They have 
made it clear in pronouncements on the floor and in press conferences 
they are going to stop this debate at any cost. They are prepared to 
filibuster this measure so we cannot have a debate and a vote on this 
critical issue. That is wrong. It is inconsistent with the reason we 
ran for office and the reason this institution exists.

We have to face the obvious. Since the decision was made by the 
United States of America to give President Bush this authorization of 
force, we have seen horrible results.

Mr. President, 3,132 of our best and bravest soldiers have given 
their lives, thousands have been seriously injured, hundreds of 
billions of dollars of taxpayers' money have been spent in pursuit of 
this war, with no end in sight. Our soldiers did their job and did it 
well--deposed a dictator and gave the Iraqis an opportunity for the 
first time in their history to stand and govern themselves and guide 
their nation into the future.

Instead, we have seen this situation disintegrate into a civil war, 
and we have watched our soldiers caught in the crossfire of a battle 
that started 1,400 years ago among followers of the Islamic faith. That 
is not what America bargained for. That is why the majority of the 
American people believe we need to change course, we need a new 
direction, and we need to bring our troops home. We need to tell the 
President that the escalation of this war and the escalation of the 
troops is the wrong policy at this moment in history.

For this Senate to speak, we need to engage in a debate, a debate 
which leads to a vote. There are choices before us. This choice, which 
I support, tells the President we disagree with his policy. It joins 
with the House of Representatives, which made the same decision on a 
bipartisan basis. We have offered to Senator McCain, a Republican from 
Arizona, an opportunity to bring his position forward in support of 
adding more troops in Iraq. That is the fair parameter of a good 
debate. But sadly the Republican minority has said they will deny us 
that opportunity.

I hope those who believe it is important for the Senate to engage in 
this debate will contact their Members of the Senate as quickly as 
possible and let them know the vote tomorrow at 1:45 in the afternoon 
here on the Senate floor is a historic vote, a vote of great 
importance. Every Member should be here. Every Member should vote. 
Every Member should understand the nature of this institution. The 
reason we serve is to give voice to the people we represent on the 
issues of our time. There is no more compelling and timely issue than 
this war in Iraq.

I yield the floor.