# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `92eadf63fda3d265abd5e8222f702830`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, Winston Churchill said, ''The United 
States of America always does the right thing after it has exhausted 
all the other alternatives.''

And what we are doing here tonight, through the Democrat Party, is 
exhausting all the other alternatives.

This bill is wrong for a number of reasons. First of all, the 
Democrat leadership promised to cut out the pork and nondefense 
spending and give us a clean bill. But this bill contains minimum wage 
legislation, children's health care appropriations, $31 million for 
milk subsidies, $460 million for food aid, much of that not even going 
to the


Middle East, $40 million for grain storage, $37 million for new 
computers for the FSA in Kansas City, $4 million for the Office of 
Women's Health, and $15 million for livestock subsidies.

What does this have to do with Iraq? Not a thing.

And yet some of this stuff may have a lot of merit and get bipartisan 
support. But why not bring it up on the proper pieces of legislation, 
not on a military aid bill?

It's interesting, one of the Democrat Senators actually justified the 
nonmilitary spending saying, ''But the Republicans did it.'' And I 
agree with her. She's right. We did it. And that's why we are in the 
minority. The American people are tired of these kind of shenanigans.

Let's pull these items out and have a debate on their own merits, not 
on the backs of soldiers in Iraq.

Let's talk about Iraq. The Constitution, article I, section 2, says, 
and I quote, ''The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army 
and Navy of the United States and of the militia of the several States 
when called into the actual service of the United States.''

In other words, the President, as Commander in Chief, runs wars, not 
535 arm chair generals on Capitol Hill.

But this legislation, or surrender document, usurps the President's 
constitutional prerogative. For this reason alone we should reject it.

And finally, let's talk about the gist of this surrender. Putting a 
timeline on a war is great if the enemy agrees with it. But for some 
reason, they never do. Never in the history of war has a country won by 
announcing their surrender date to the world. It's odd, it's reckless, 
and it won't work.

We should not micromanage this war. We should do as Winston Churchill 
said and do the right thing.

And I urge a ''no'' vote.