---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--
## `92eebde01db36e2586bbb7d1e540a289`
`Mr. SPECTER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I seek recognition today in support of 
the domestic spending amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Military 
Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies bill, which is the 
underlying vehicle for fiscal year 2008 supplemental funding.

These appropriations include funding for programs vital for our 
Nation's welfare. With my long record of support for these programs, I 
could hardly reject supporting them now especially in the face of 
supporting significant additional funding for national defense. There 
must be some semblance of balance on military and domestic spending.

This legislation includes emergency unemployment compensation, UC, 
benefits for individuals who have exhausted all regular unemployment 
benefits after May 1, 2006. The UC program, funded by both Federal and 
State payroll taxes, pays benefits to covered workers who become 
involuntarily unemployed for economic reasons and meet State-
established eligibility rules. These emergency UC benefits will provide 
a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits for those Americans in 
need of help.

Although America's economic growth has been positive during each of 
the past 25 quarters, between January and March 2008, payroll 
employment fell by some 160,000 and the unemployment rate rose to 5.1 
percent in March of this year. Inflation has accelerated with the 
consumer price index rising to 3.9 percent for the 12 months ending in 
April 2008 compared with 2.5 percent during 2006 and 3.4 percent in 
2005. With the increased costs of food and energy and loss of jobs in 
the United States, we need to offer assistance to those employees who 
have lost their jobs in order for them to provide for their families 
until they can find another job. I have consistently supported efforts 
to extend UC benefits to help our fellow Americans through difficult 
times. The Senate failed to extend UC benefits during consideration of 
the economic stimulus bill on February 6, 2008, despite my support. 
Therefore, I support this amendment recognizing the need to capitalize 
on the opportunity it provides for a much needed economic boost to 
those hard-working Americans hit hardest by the recent economic 
downturn.

Additionally, I support this amendment as it includes a much needed 
update to the GI bill of rights, which has not been revised for over 20 
years. I joined 57 of my colleagues in sponsoring legislation that 
would provide a 4-year public university education for anyone who has 
served on active duty for at least 36 months since Sept. 11, 2001. This 
legislation would provide for this generation what the post-WWII GI 
bill provided for veterans of that global conflict. The current 
proposal is supported by the current chairmen of the Armed Services 
Committee and Veterans' Affairs Committee, as well as by a former 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee.

This reform is a real necessity. Regrettably we do not take care of 
our veterans as we should. We find that men and women are coming back 
now from Iraq and Afghanistan and the wonders of modern medicine have 
been able to keep people alive, but they have very serious 
disabilities. Many need a lot of counseling, have a lot of psychiatric 
problems and a lot of brain damage. Some young men and women coming 
back in their early twenties will require decades of care. General 
Colin Powell recently said, ''For someone coming back after serving in 
Iraq or Afghanistan for two or three or four tours of duty, they need 
to catch up quickly, and we need to help them.''

For those veterans ready to return to school, it is vital that they 
not be hindered with financial impediments to accessing higher 
education. It is a very sound economic approach to provide this 
education. The post-WWII program has been paid off many times over by 
producing men and women who have been very productive and paid more 
taxes. According to a recent editorial by Tom Ridge and Bob Kerrey, 
''for every tax dollar spent on the World War II GI bill, our country 
received $7 in tax remittances from veterans whose careers benefitted 
from enhanced education.'' I agree with General Powell's statement 
that, ''America got that money back in spades.'' I think this is 
something we ought to do, most fundamentally to treat the veterans 
properly, but also for the future of the country. We would be well 
served by another generation of very well educated men and women; they 
deserve it, and it would help the country a great deal in the long run.

This amendment before the Senate contains $400 million for the 
National Institutes of Health, NIH. These additional funds are critical 
in catalyzing scientific discoveries that will lead to a better 
understanding in preventing and treating the disorders that afflict 
men, women, and children in our society. I was very disappointed in the 
small increase NIH received in fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2009, I 
am asking for an increase of several billion dollars.

This amendment contains an additional $26 million for Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, to respond to outbreaks of 
communicable diseases related to the re-use of syringes in outpatient 
clinics. Funds would be used for research, education and outreach 
activities.

Further, I have consistently supported efforts to increase funding 
for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, LIHEAP, as the 
ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, 
Health and Human Services and Education. This amendment provides an 
additional $1 billion for fiscal year 2008 for this critical program. 
With the cost of energy continually increasing, it is essential that 
those on fixed incomes have assistance in making their home heating and 
cooling payments. This additional funding will bring the total level 
for fiscal year 2008 closer to the goal of the fully authorized level 
of $5 billion.

Paying heating and cooling bills for low-income households throughout 
this Nation has always been a struggle, but never more so than today 
with the soaring energy costs. The inability to pay for heating or 
having to make decisions to forgo other needs such as food and medicine 
pose health and safety hazards--especially to the elderly, the disabled 
and children. This winter, Americans, on average, spent $977 to heat 
their homes which is 10 percent higher than last winter. Nationwide 
average oil heating bills are expected to be 22 percent higher than in 
the previous year. I support this amendment


which will go a long way towards addressing the serious plight of those 
individuals facing a critical need for assistance during this energy 
crisis.

This amendment will also provide a moratorium on several Medicaid 
regulations. These Medicaid Programs are critical to providing 
healthcare to low-income individuals in Pennsylvania.

The moratorium prevents the elimination of school-based 
administrative and transportation programs and case management services 
for individuals with multiple health and social complications. This 
amendment will provide access for beneficiaries to rehabilitation 
services. Further, the moratorium would continue the payments to 
hospitals for graduate medical education funding, allowing Pennsylvania 
hospitals to train the physicians of tomorrow. These programs provide 
an important health safety net for disadvantaged children, seniors and 
parents that must be preserved.

This amendment would restore access to nominal drug pricing for 
selected health centers specifically those clinics based at colleges 
and universities whose primary purpose is to provide family planning 
services to students of that institution.

The domestic amendment also contains provisions that will decrease 
Federal spending. This includes the expansion of a demonstration 
project that verifies the assets held by Medicaid applicants. It saves 
federal dollars by preventing noneligible people from receiving 
Medicaid benefits inappropriately.

Additionally, this amendment would impose a 1-year moratorium on the 
August 17, 2007, directive by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services. This directive changed Federal policy by prohibiting coverage 
of uninsured children under SCHIP if their family income is above 250 
percent of the Federal poverty level or $42,400. This is of particular 
importance in Pennsylvania where the SCHIP program covers children in 
families up to 300 percent of the poverty level or $63,600.

For these reasons that I have outlined above--an extension of 
unemployment insurance benefits, enhanced benefits for our nation's 
veterans, and additional funding for LIHEAP, FDA, CDC and NIH where 
insufficient funding has been provided--I support the domestic spending 
amendment to the supplemental bill.