---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `92ee3b62c6fe8e77cce54fca5e5dc9bd`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I will support this bill, albeit very 
reluctantly.

This supplemental appropriations bill contains a number of provisions 
I'm pleased to support. This bill provides long-overdue retroactive 
''stop loss'' compensation payments to more than 170,000 servicemembers 
who had their enlistments involuntarily extended. It also provides 
nearly $5 billion for additional Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) 
vehicles for U.S. forces in Afghanistan and Iraq. The bill renews our 
commitment to meaningful engagement in the Middle East by providing 
Israel with $555 million of the $2.8 billion of the 2010 request for 
security assistance, as well as $665 million in bilateral economic, 
humanitarian, and security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza. I am 
also pleased that the bill provides $2 billion for pandemic flu 
response, as well as $500 million for global


emergency food assistance. These are all worthy and necessary 
expenditures.

As the chairman of the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel (SIOP), I 
want to briefly discuss our work on this bill. The SIOP reviewed the 
intelligence activities contained in this request. While the dollar 
amounts are classified, I can tell my colleagues that this bill 
contains many of the same justifiable activities we have seen in 
previous years with two exceptions. The first exception is the 
administration's request, which this bill includes, for additional 
funding for the operations in Afghanistan. Intelligence has been a 
vital component of our overseas military activities, and this bill 
ensures that proper intelligence will be available to those on the 
front lines in Afghanistan. The second exception is that this 
administration has begun the process of shifting continuing activities 
from emergency supplemental bills to the base appropriations bill.

Overall, however, I have grave concerns about the direction of our 
spending and policy focus in Afghanistan. I recognize that this 
conflict was neglected for far too long because of our misadventure in 
Iraq and that we are now paying the price for that neglect. I am 
concerned that in our haste to try to recover lost ground--literally as 
well as figuratively--we may commit some of the same errors that 
bedeviled our efforts in Iraq.

I have heard many people in this body and elsewhere in our government 
say that ''the United States cannot afford to lose in Afghanistan.'' 
That statement presumes that it is a war that is solely ours to win or 
lose--that the outcome will be decided by our willingness to commit 
still more blood and treasure to this conflict. That is a fallacy, the 
same fallacy that caused us to misdirect our efforts in Iraq for so 
long with such disastrous consequences. We would do well to remember 
what U.S. counterinsurgency specialist William Polk said in his 2007 
book Violent Politics:




 We should begin by noting what is common to all 


 insurgencies. No matter how they differ in form, duration, 


 and intensity, a single thread runs through them all: 


 opposition to foreigners.


As in Iraq, we cannot solve the Afghan's problems for them; we are 
foreign occupiers of their country and will forever be seen that way by 
the population. We can support them in their effort to build a stable 
and just society, but they must be the leaders in that effort.

To that end, we should also bear in mind the words of the authors of 
the current U.S. Army and Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual:




 Long-term success in [counterinsurgency] depends on the 


 people taking charge of their own affairs and consenting to 


 the government's rule . . . Political and military leaders 


 and planners should never underestimate its scale and 


 complexity; moreover, they should recognize that the Armed 


 Forces cannot succeed in [counterinsurgency] alone.


The supplemental appropriations bill before us spends $47.7 billion 
on the ongoing military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq compared to 
$4.3 billion for international affairs and stabilization activities in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. Perhaps the ratio should not be 
reversed, but it should certainly be far more balanced than it is--and 
there should be some type of timeline for the transition of security 
responsibilities from our forces to the government of Afghanistan.

My recent visit to Iraq with Speaker Pelosi convinced me that the 
certainty of our withdrawal from that country has focused the minds of 
Iraq's leaders on the need to deal with their many unresolved domestic 
problems. We need to create that same sense of urgency among 
Afghanistan's leaders, but I fear that this bill will not have that 
effect. I intend to join like-minded House colleagues in seeking ways 
to create that sense of urgency in this body, and ultimately on leaders 
in Afghanistan and Pakistan. As a first step, I have co-sponsored a 
bill by my friend from Massachusetts, Representative Jim McGovern, that 
would require the Secretary of Defense to present to Congress an exit 
strategy for Afghanistan. The conflict in Afghanistan, and the emerging 
conflict in Pakistan itself, cannot be solved by us through military 
means--it can only be solved politically through a joint effort by us 
and our allies. I hope we will be able to begin making that transition 
in the Fiscal Year 2010 budget later this year, and by passing 
Representative McGovern's bill as soon as possible.