---
---

# CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN TO RELEASE DR. HALEH ESFANDIARI
## `92fa01796b8638aa3950d89bf30fef7c`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 5 June 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of House Resolution 430, which 
decries the unlawful imprisonment of dual U.S.-Iranian citizens by the 
regime in Tehran. As this resolution illustrates, Iranian intelligence 
officials have unlawfully detained, interrogated and imprisoned 
numerous dual U.S.-Iranian citizens, in particular Dr. Haleh 
Esfandiari, who works for the Woodrow Wilson International Center for 
Scholars.

The Iranian government incarcerated Dr. Esfandiari in Evin Prison in 
Tehran on May 9 of this year. However, as I noted, this is not an 
isolated incident by any means. The Iranian government also confiscated 
the passport of Radio Farda journalist Parnaz Azima, an American 
citizen, when she arrived in Iran to visit her ill mother in January 
earlier this year.

Iranian government officials have interrogated Ms. Azima and 
pressured her to collaborate with Iranian intelligence. Iran has also 
imprisoned a consultant for the Open Society Institute and a fourth 
American citizen who has chosen to remain anonymous and who has been 
unlawfully detained in Iran for 6 months.

Mr. Speaker, this cannot stand. The Iranian government's recent 
actions are particularly egregious in light of that regime's past 
involvement in the killing of Americans and its past incitement and 
support of the taking of 66 American citizens hostages at the U.S. 
embassy in Tehran on February 4, 1979, with 52 of those Americans held 
in captivity for 444 days.

In response, we must remain resolute in our condemnation of the 
Iranian regime for detaining innocent American citizens for political 
purposes and demand that the Iranian regime immediately and 
unconditionally permit all American citizens detained in Iran against 
their will to leave.

These threatening actions by the Iranian regime come amidst Tehran's 
ongoing support for Islamic militants in Iraq that are killing Iraqis 
and Americans alike, its arming and support for Hezbollah in Lebanon 
and Hamas in Gaza and its continued pursuit of nuclear capability in 
contempt of international demands that it suspend its enrichment 
activities. I therefore believe that the United States should suspend 
all contact with any agent, instrumentality or representative of the 
Iranian regime until Americans held hostage by Iran are released and 
other issues critical to the United States are addressed.

I strongly urge my colleagues to support this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.