---
---

# HONORING THE 4TH BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM, 1ST CAVALRY DIVISION
## `931c85654ff1b7d86e56dfc8d6bdde1d`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 26 February 2008`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the outstanding 
service of the 4th Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division, as they 
complete their service in Iraq and return to their loving families.

I am so proud of the brave servicemembers of the 4-1 Cavalry who have 
sacrificed so much to keep our Nation safe. I also appreciate the 
commitment of their family members, who have borne a heavy burden to 
advance the cause of liberty. All of them deserve our sincere 
appreciation and gratitude.

Since September 11, 2001, our Nation has been at war with terrorists 
who are determined to kill innocent Americans and destroy freedom 
around the world. We cannot let that happen. Our country has the 
greatest capacity and will to fight for freedom. If freedom dies in 
America, it will die throughout the world. I have no doubt we will win 
this war because our Nation is blessed to have heroes like the 
courageous men and women of the 4-1 Cavalry.

The 4th Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division command team, 
consists of COL Stephen Twitty and CSM Stephan Frennier. The brigade 
combat team is a relatively new unit that activated on October 18, 
2005, at Fort Bliss, TX. The subordinate units consist of the 1st 
Battalion, 9th Cavalry Regiment, 2nd Battalion, 7th Cavalry Regiment, 
2nd Battalion, 12th Cavalry Regiment, 5th Battalion, 82nd Field 
Artillery Regiment, 4th Brigade Special Troops Battalion, and the 27 
Brigade Support Battalion.

The 4th Brigade Combat Team received orders to deploy to Iraq in 
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom in July of 2006. Upon completion of 
mission readiness exercises and a rotation at the national training 
center, the 4-1 Cavalry began to deploy in September of 2006.

By their first anniversary, the 4-1 Cavalry arrived in Ninewa 
Province, the second largest province in Iraq. The 2-12 Cavalry 
deployed to Baghdad to augment the 1st Infantry Division.

The brigade headquarters was based in Mosul, Ninewa's provincial 
capital, which is the site of the biblical city of Ninewa. The 
province, slightly larger than the State of Maryland, is in the extreme 
northern part of Iraq. It borders Syria to the west and is comprised of 
Sunni Arabs, Shia Arabs, Turkmen, and Christians. The mission of the 4-
1 Cavalry was to build capable Iraqi security forces, to conduct 
counterinsurgency operations in order to neutralize anti-Iraqi forces 
and to transition responsibility for defeating the insurgency to the 
Iraqi security forces, and the provincial government. They performed 
that mission superbly.

Despite being subjected to IEDs, VBIEDs, and small arms fire, the 
members of the 4-1 Cavalry did an outstanding job protecting the people 
of Ninewa Province. Due to their professionalism and courage, attacks 
in the province went from 15 to 18 per day in December of 2006 to 7 to 
9 attacks per day by September of 2007. In conjunction with their Iraqi 
counterparts, they


also found several tons of military grade weapons and IED-making 
material and detained over 1,500 insurgents. Altogether, they overcame 
numerous challenges, and through courage and dedication, they succeeded 
beyond anyone's expectations. They have much to be proud of.

On February 27, 2008, the city of El Paso will hold a parade to honor 
the brave men and women of the 4-1 Cavalry. Our Nation is a better 
place because of their service and sacrifice on behalf of a noble 
cause. We can never forget them or their family members. We honor their 
struggles and successes in that mission.

It is with sincere gratitude that I recognize them today.
