# IN SUPPORT OF THE JAMES ZADROGA 9/11 HEALTH AND COMPENSATION ACT
## `933859808744441b1646bc6f1638b73c`
`Mr. ROTHMAN — 19 December 2007`

---


Mr. ROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, our Nation owes a debt of gratitude to 
those who selflessly rushed to Ground Zero to help their fellow 
citizens during and immediately following the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, 2001. These courageous American men and women thought of 
others first and themselves second. Truthfully, if it were not for the 
firefighters, rescue workers, emergency medical providers, and 
volunteers who helped in the days following 9/11, then the death toll 
may have been even higher. The healing process would have been even 
slower. And the cleanup would have taken even longer.

Today, however, many of these rescue workers and volunteers suffer 
severe respiratory illnesses and diseases as a result of their exposure 
to toxic debris and materials at Ground Zero. To add insult to injury, 
the Bush administration has failed to provide them with adequate health 
care and, in some cases, actually challenged the cause of their 
illnesses, which doctor after doctor has diagnosed as stemming from the 
poisonous air at Ground Zero.

Our Nation can and must do far better by our heroes. That is why I 
strongly support and have cosponsored the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and 
Compensation Act. This legislation would establish a World Trade Center 
Health program to provide medical monitoring, treatment, and 
compensation to emergency responders, recovery and cleanup workers, and 
other Ground Zero workers suffering serious diseases as a result of 
their efforts. It would also expand the number of individuals who are 
to be covered by such arrangements and creates a nationwide network of 
health care providers for treating victims residing outside the New 
York City area.

The American people understand that we have a duty to support our 
heroes--from those who saved lives in the aftermath of 9/11 to all of 
our service men and women returning from the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. It's sad that we need legislation to force the Bush 
administration to do right by our heroes--but such is the situation we 
face. Thus, I will continue to fight for passage of the James Zadroga 
Act, will continue to seek increased funding to treat veterans and 
troops with post-traumatic stress disorder, severe brain injury, and 
other needs, and will work hard to elect a new President of the United 
States who will do more than pay lip service to the needs of our 
heroes.

Finally, I wish to applaud the good people at the Unsung Heroes 
Helping Heroes organization. While they never asked for anybody's 
praise, they have earned it--not only through their actions on 9/11, 
but also through their tireless advocacy on behalf of all those 
struggling with serious health problems caused by 9/11 and through 
their assistance to sick and injured 9/11 responders.
