# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `933e98e89f3b3c6f12ead679ac42e5aa`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 26 June 2008`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I know the time is late. This is a 
very important bill. It is one that has many good features, and the 
good features certainly outweigh the bad features. I know we never get 
everything we want in Congress. We certainly heard a lot about that a 
few minutes ago. I wish to talk about a couple of very important parts 
of this bill.

Also in the GI bill is something I worked very hard to put in that 
bill, which is the transferability of the education benefits that a 
person in the military now is able to transfer to a spouse or children.

There are many people who don't want to leave the military to take 
that education opportunity, but they would love to give their spouse or 
their child that opportunity. It is now in this bill. Very important.

It also incorporates a bill that I introduced early this year, again, 
for veterans. Who would have thought, Mr. President, that someone who 
dies serving our country in Iraq and leaves behind a $300 bill due the 
Veterans' Administration for education benefits--that they were not 
able to finish because they gave their life in the war--would then get 
a bill from the Veterans' Administration for that $385? In fact, Mr. 
President, that is what has been happening since we went into the war 
on terror.

The Secretary of Veterans Affairs asked me to introduce a bill so he 
would not have to do that because he knew it was wrong and that we 
wouldn't want it being done. This bill we are voting on tonight will go 
retroactive to 9/11, 2001, and it will assure that every family who has 
been sent a bill and paid that bill, after their loved one has died in 
service to their country, will be reimbursed, and no bill will ever go 
out again. That is in this bill, and I am very proud we finally passed 
it.

Also in this bill is the Merida Initiative, as part of the 
supplemental. In my home State, and all the border States with Mexico, 
we are seeing violence with drug cartels that are now targeting our law 
enforcement officers on our side of the border as well as those in 
Mexico. They are dying trying to stop the drug cartels that are 
importing drugs into our country. The Merida Initiative that President 
Bush and President Calderon have put together is a part of this 
supplemental. I had hoped that we could also help our local law 
enforcement officials who do not have the equipment they need to deal 
with these more violent, more sophisticated drug cartels, but I am 
telling you right now I am going to pursue that in the next bill we 
pass that is an appropriations bill because our local law enforcement 
officials are certainly in need of our help.

We didn't get that in this bill, and I am disappointed, but there 
will be another day. We have to do this together. We have to stop the 
drug infusion into our country and stop these heinous crimes that are 
being committed by the drug cartels in Mexico.

So I support this bill. I hope we will all support it. It is a 
supplemental. Most of it is what the President asked for. We didn't all 
get what we wanted, but it is a worthy bill to support.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.