---
---

# LANCE CORPORAL DREW W. WEAVER POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `9349ef6969135b31cfb55cc34e429e77`
`Mr. AKIN — 9 September 2008`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6168. It's a 
bill that I introduced to honor the life of Drew W. Weaver by 
designating the post office in St. Charles, Missouri, as the Lance 
Corporal Drew W. Weaver Post Office Building.

A resident of St. Charles, Missouri, Lance Corporal Drew Weaver was 
part of the 3rd Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion, 1st Marine 
Division,


1st Marine Expeditionary Force. On February 21, 2007, Lance Corporal 
Weaver died while conducting combat operations in the al Anbar province 
in Iraq. As Captain Mark C. Brown noted, Drew was ''known for his 
enthusiasm and his ability to motivate people around him.''

Drew's contribution to his country was honored by his community when 
hundreds of people showed up to his memorial service and procession. A 
graduate of St. Charles High School, friends and family of Drew 
remember him as an energetic young man who was eager to serve his 
country. Ryan Hanson, his best friend and a fellow serviceman, said, 
''Drew loved what he was doing and was proud of what he was doing for 
the Marine Corps.''

As the father of two Marines, one of whom has served in Iraq, it is a 
privilege to stand here today to honor one of our fallen heroes. Drew's 
commitment and dedication to his country is a shining example of how 
our military men and women are the finest our Nation has to offer.

His and his family's sacrifice should serve as a reminder to all that 
the freedom we enjoy as Americans is not free, but the result of 
tremendous bravery and selfless sacrifice of men and women willing to 
put themselves in harm's way for freedom's cause.

As Reverend James Benz noted during Drew's funeral, ''I think we can 
learn from them that the freedom we enjoy in this country is precious, 
that it is special, and it must be preserved sometimes at great 
personal cost.''

Our Nation will be forever indebted to Lance Corporal Drew Weaver. 
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me today in honoring Lance 
Corporal Drew Weaver.

Vote ''yes'' on H.R. 6168.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.