---
---

# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `934cb7a4dc3642ec60a989cb667cf505`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, in Massachusetts, we have begun to 
address the crisis of the uninsured. We believe health care is a right, 
not a privilege for the wealthy.

The president's veto of the bipartisan SCHIP compromise abandons 11 
million children, including 90,500 Massachusetts children. That is 
unacceptable.

I wish President Bush would take the time to meet hardworking 
families like the O'Neils of Fall River. They were just blessed with 
their first child, Sean. Dad works several jobs while his wife recovers 
her health.

But the cost of all those doctors' visits and immunizations add up. 
Thanks to SCHIP, Sean is a happy, healthy baby.

But thanks to the President's veto, my proactive State exhausted its 
SCHIP allotment on October 1. Even with the extension, all of its funds 
will be gone by January 11.

To justify his position, the President has decided to distort what 
this good bill actually does. It doesn't cover well-off families. It 
doesn't cover illegal immigrants. What it does do is give a hand to 
millions of families who are struggling to provide health care for 
their kids.

I simply don't understand the President's priorities. He's more than 
happy to sign bills giving billions of tax breaks to oil companies and 
multi-millionaires, but he won't sign a modest, fully-paid-for bill 
that helps millions of low-income children? He's willing to spend 
hundreds of billions of dollars--none of it paid for--in Iraq but is 
unwilling to sign a bill that is paid for and will keep children from 
losing their health care?

That makes no sense to me.

This bill has the support of the medical community, children's 
advocates, and even the insurance industry. There is simply no reason 
for the President to reject it, other than partisan politics.

I will continue to fight for this important program, and I urge all 
of my colleagues, Republican and Democrat, to do the same.