---
---

# ENERGY
## `937b1b41b654e4bb148f773f2c9c21e3`
`Mr. DURBIN — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from North Dakota, 
who has come to the floor almost every day to talk about the energy 
crisis. But if the American people had their choice, all of us would be 
talking about it every day of the week. It takes anywhere from an hour 
to 2 hours to go from downtown Chicago out to O'Hare. I have made the 
trip a lot. But recently, the fellow who was driving me said: I have 
noticed something strange. Even during rush hour, there are fewer cars 
out here. I know a lot of people are on vacation, but something is 
changing.

I have noticed it all over my State, and I think people are noticing 
it all over the country. What is changing is people are looking at 
gasoline that costs $4.50 or $4.30 a gallon and saying: I will drive 
less. I am going to look for a car or truck that is more fuel 
efficient. People are understanding in their daily lives that things 
are changing, not always for the better, because as the price of oil 
goes up and the price of gasoline goes up, we may make energy-
conserving decisions, but some of those are forced on us. Some of those 
are painful, painful when we pay for the gasoline each week and painful 
when people find their family budgets wrecked by the cost of gasoline.

They are not alone. The major airline companies have now announced 
dramatic cutbacks in scheduling and in employees. They can't keep up. 
The price of jet fuel has gone through the roof. I have met with the 
CEOs of these companies. The stories they tell are very sad. They can't 
afford to fly people anymore. They can't charge enough. They can't make 
enough. They are charging us now for everything in sight, $15, $20, $50 
for a second bag they check, trying to keep the airlines afloat. And 
some of them will fail, I am afraid, unless something dramatic happens.

So it is no surprise that on the floor of this Senate we have talked 
a lot about this energy issue. There are two distinct points of view, 
and I think they tell the difference between outlook. Senator Dorgan of 
North Dakota talked about ''yesterday forever.'' On the Republican 
side, their idea is to drill more oil, keep drilling, keep finding more 
oil. Sadly, they have ignored the reality.

The reality is this: If you take a look at all the oil reserves in 
the world, the United States has 2 percent of the world's oil reserves. 
Ninety-eight percent, of course, is in countries such as


Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and Canada. We have 2 percent of the oil reserves.

The oil consumption by the United States? We consume 24 percent of 
the oil. In other words, we cannot drill our way out of this. We cannot 
find enough oil here to sustain the American economy. If you are going 
to be honest--and you should be with the American people--if we made a 
decision tomorrow to start drilling in any specific spot, for instance, 
off the coast of the United States, it takes literally years for that 
to happen, for it to go into production, and to deliver the oil to the 
United States. Estimates are 8 to 14 years.

So coming to the floor and saying: Drill more, drill now--well, the 
reality is, ''drill now'' means drill in 8 to 14 years. That is going 
to have little impact on current gasoline prices, no matter what we 
think. That is the reality. The question, obviously, is: Are there 
places we should go to drill? Well, of course there are. The United 
States is in control of its sovereign territory as a nation, and its 
offshore territory as well. The Federal Government owns many public 
lands, and some of those are used for ski resorts and national parks 
and mining.

Some are used for oil and gas exploration. We say to the companies: 
If you would like to drill more oil and gas on our land, the Federal 
land, pay us a lease, pay us a rental, and we will allow you to do so. 
The oil and gas companies gobble up this territory. In fact, 68 million 
acres of Federal land are currently under lease to oil and gas 
companies for that purpose: to drill for oil.

What are they doing with those 68 million acres? Well, it turns out a 
lot of them are not being utilized. This is a little map of the Western 
part of the United States I have in the Chamber. The land you see in 
red is Federal land leased to oil and gas companies not in production. 
When the Republicans say we have to put more acres out there for them 
to drill, the fact is, they are paying us to lease acres they are not 
touching. I do not know what the explanation might be, but of those 
onshore, 34.5 million acres have been leased from the Federal 
Government and go untouched.

It is just not onshore. If we think the mother lode is offshore, as 
shown on this other map, these are acres we have leased in the Gulf of 
Mexico, and all those in red are currently untouched--leased, so the 
oil and gas companies believe there is oil or gas there but untouched.

So to argue there is not enough acreage for us to go searching for 
oil, there is some 68 million acres of leased Federal land to oil 
companies, and zero of those acres in production onshore and offshore.

We recently had a lease to offer 115 million more acres of Federal 
land available to these companies for lease for oil and gas purposes. 
This was in the last year--since January, I should say, of 2007. Mr. 
President, 115 million acres were offered.

What does 115 million acres of land that the Federal Government owns 
and will lease to oil and gas companies represent? This is the path, as 
shown on this map, of Interstate 80, which most of us know. It goes 
from New Jersey all the way to California. This represents a 67-mile-
wide swath along I-80. That is the size of the acreage we have offered 
to the oil and gas companies to drill on for oil and gas. Of that, they 
have accepted 12 million acres they bid on. Another 103 million acres 
have gone unclaimed by these oil and gas companies. So it is not as if 
there is not land available. There is--a lot of it--millions and 
millions of acres made available to these companies. Some they are 
paying for, some they could lease. There is plenty of land for them to 
drill.

So why, then, is the Republican approach that we need to drill more, 
when the opportunity is there? There are plenty of acres, and we know 
that even with drilling, we are going to wait 8 to 14 years to see the 
first drop of oil. Well, here is what it is all about.

For the last 8 years, the White House has been under the control of a 
President and a Vice President with a deep background in the oil 
industry--both President Bush and Vice President Cheney. And not 
coincidentally, the oil companies have done very well. The policies of 
this administration have been very friendly to these oil and gas 
companies. They are reporting record profits, which I will get to in a 
moment.

So the last gasp before this crew leaves town is for the Republican 
side of the aisle to give to the big oil groups more leased land, give 
them more land to stockpile inventory for future purposes. That is what 
this is all about. It is not about solving the current energy crisis. 
It is not about bringing down gasoline prices. That is 8 to 14 years 
away, if ever. It is about, frankly, giving big oil exactly what it 
wants.

If you think I am making this up, take a look at the full-page ads in 
your hometown newspapers by the American Petroleum Institute supporting 
the Republican position. What is the American Petroleum Institute? The 
largest and smallest oil companies in America. They understand this is 
their last grab under this administration and the Republicans want to 
give them that grab and take that land and try to convince the American 
people it will make a difference when it comes to our energy policy. 
Quite honestly, we know better.

Now, in a short time--maybe a matter of days, maybe this week--the 
oil companies are going to be reporting their latest profits. This 
chart will show you what is happening to big oil profits since this 
administration took office. Starting in 2002 to 2007, you can see a 
dramatic increase in billions of dollars for oil and gas companies in 
America. These just are not large increases for this industry, these 
are the largest reported profits of any business in the history of the 
United States of America.

The oil companies have done extraordinarily well. Notwithstanding all 
the other arguments, the fact that the Republicans want to give these 
oil and gas companies one last grab at this land is an indication they 
want the profit margins to continue.

But is that what we are all about? Is that why we are here, to make 
sure wealthy, profitable companies make record profits unseen in the 
history of the United States, at the expense of families who pay for 
the gasoline, at the expense of businesses that cannot survive, at the 
expense of our airlines that are shutting down their planes and 
schedules, at the expense of farmers in my State of Illinois and across 
the United States? I do not think so.


Our responsibility has to go further. Our responsibility has to go to 
the point----