# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `93890ef3d7d38c6a042914488e792e05`
`Mr. BIDEN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, before I send an amendment to the desk, I 
do not want to in any way disagree with anything that was said but 
expand on it slightly. There is a Biden-Brownback amendment. Senator 
Brownback is a major sponsor of this amendment, and I will yield to him 
in a moment because he has a difficult scheduling dilemma. I will let 
him go first. I also want to make it clear that Senators Boxer, Kerry, 
Specter, probably Hutchison, and others are going to want to speak to 
this amendment.

I am assuming that on Monday this will still be the pending business 
and that we will be able to continue to discuss and debate this issue, 
so Senators have time. This is an important weekend in the Jewish 
faith, so a lot of people are not here. But I assume, notwithstanding 
the fact that we are going to vote shortly after we convene on Tuesday 
morning, that we will have an opportunity to speak to this on Monday as 
well.

Now, today I will offer an amendment to the Defense authorization 
bill concerning U.S. policy in Iraq. As I said, I am joined by a 
bipartisan group of colleagues, including Senators Brownback, Boxer, 
Specter, Kerry, and, I believe, Senator Hutchison. Our amendment says 
it should be the policy of the United States to support a political 
settlement in Iraq based on the principles of federalism. I have much 
more to say about this. Again, I thank my friend from Kansas who has 
been a major proponent of this approach for some time. We joined forces 
together months ago. He has a very tight schedule, so he will speak 
first. I see Senator Hutchison standing also.