# IRAQ
## `93c094be1fdbcdcce7a9b3e17ccdc2e2`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 29 January 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. We now learn that the President, in signing the Department 
of Defense authorization bill into law yesterday, has once again taken 
the opportunity to issue another infamous signing statement, imposing 
his own interpretation of a law over the clear intent of the Congress.

Let's not forget that this important legislation has been needlessly 
delayed for weeks because the President wanted to defer to concerns of 
the Iraqi Government over compensation for U.S. victims of Saddam 
Hussein's acts of terrorism. Let me repeat that. A critical pay raise 
for our troops was delayed because a foreign government raised concerns 
with this White House.

In signing the Department of Defense authorization bill into law, the 
President declared his right to ignore--ignore--several important 
provisions, including the establishment of an important special 
commission to review wartime contracting. This provision was an 
initiative of the Senate Democratic freshmen class, led by Senators 
Webb and McCaskill. The President also declared his right to ignore a 
provision prohibiting funding for U.S. military bases or installations 
in Iraq that facilitate ''permanent station'' of U.S. troops in Iraq.

Let me say that again in plain language. This provision sought to 
prevent the United States from establishing permanent bases in Iraq, 
and


the President has indicated he may ignore--ignore--this provision. 
Every time senior administration officials are asked about permanent 
military bases in Iraq, they contend it is not their intention to 
construct such facilities. Yet this signing statement issued by the 
President yesterday is the clearest signal yet that the administration 
wants to hold this option in reserve. This is exactly the wrong signal 
to send both to the Iraqi Government and its neighbors in the region 
and to others as well.

Permanent U.S. military bases gives a blank check to an Iraqi 
government that has shown no evidence that it is ready to step up and 
take full responsibility for what happens in Iraq. Permanent U.S. 
military bases feeds the propaganda of our enemies, who argue that the 
U.S. invasion in 2003 was carried out to secure access to Iraq's oil 
and establish a strategic beachhead for the U.S. military in the 
region. Permanent U.S. military bases means U.S. troops will be in Iraq 
for years to come, ensuring that the great strain on the American 
military will continue indefinitely.

Finally, and I will conclude with this, we have a lot on our plate 
this year to deal with. We have the economy to deal with and so many 
other difficult issues, but the war in Iraq continues to be a central 
foreign policy challenge faced by the President, by the Congress, and 
by the Nation. When this President departs office after 8 years, he 
should not--should not--commit our soldiers and our Nation to 10 more 
years--10 more years--if not longer, and hundreds of billions of 
dollars, if not more, spent on the war in Iraq.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.