---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `93c42eab8a7570a49f62124e81f7fcc0`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I support the troops, their 
families, and those who have sacrificed so much in this war. But like 
others who supported the Iraq efforts in the past, I have serious 
reservations about the President's new way forward.

On Friday, this House will vote on a resolution asking Members to 
support our troops but oppose the President's plan to send 21,500 more 
troops to Iraq. For me, this will be a sobering moment. I have spent 
many days agonizing over the issue, and I do not take lightly the 
judgment to rebuke the decision of the President, our Commander in 
Chief. But I have sent off and welcomed home thousands of soldiers at 
Fort Benning. I have seen the anguish on the faces of families as they 
watch their loved ones march off towards the uncertainty and peril that 
awaited them in Iraq and Afghanistan. I have seen the troops return 
home to those same families, their faces reflecting the elation, 
relief, and joy of seeing their loved ones safe at home. I have seen 
the veterans return with Purple Hearts, having lost arms, legs, and 
suffering from the mental trauma that results from war and the adverse 
impacts on their families. I have also stood and listened to Taps 
played over the bodies of too many who have returned in flag-draped 
coffins. Mr. Speaker, it is time for a change.

The situation in Iraq has become very grave. Like General Schoomaker 
and countless others, I believe we should not surge without a purpose, 
and that purpose should be measurable in its outcome. Thus far, the 
President has not set forth a clear marker against which the purpose 
and the outcome can be measured. Previous increases in troop strength 
have not brought a reduction in violence or quelling of sectarian 
strife. Rather, the problems have intensified, casualties have 
increased, and political situations show more cracks, corruption, and 
signs of instability every day.

There are those who say we should not oppose the President's plan 
without presenting an alternative. I think that may be a fair 
challenge, but there is another way. We need a new strategy that is 
based on redeployment rather than further military engagement, one that 
is centered on handing Iraq back to the Iraqis. As Congressman Murtha 
has stated: Iraq cannot make the political progress necessary for its 
stability and security until U.S. forces redeploy. To achieve stability 
in Iraq and the region, we must redeploy from Iraq.

Why, you might ask? 91 percent of the Sunnis, 74 percent of the Shia 
want us out. 70 percent of Americans want us out. 72 percent of 
Americans who served in Iraq last year believe that we should be out by 
now. 61 percent of Iraqis approve of attacks on U.S. led forces. They 
see us as occupiers and want us out. The longer we stay, the more 
troops we send, the more violence we see, and the more we help 
recruiting of radical extremists. So we must redeploy first from 
Saddam's palaces in Baghdad, then from the cities, the factories, and 
universities. We must give the country back to the Iraqis and let them 
govern themselves and rebuild.

Next, we must execute a robust and diplomatic effort, and we must 
regain our credibility by denouncing aspirations for permanent bases. 
We must shut down Guantanamo and bulldoze Abu Ghraib prison. These are 
black eyes on the face of our international credibility. We must 
articulate clearly a policy of no torture, no exceptions. Then, we must 
engage dialogue with Iraq and all of its neighbors to promote 
investment of resources and cooperation for security by the other Arab 
countries in the region.

Most importantly, we need to repair and restore our strategic 
military reserves that have already been stressed to the breaking 
point. Because of the large force already in Iraq, Army ground forces 
here at home are not mission ready. This is because of both equipment 
and personnel shortages. The National Guard that remains at home is 
woefully unready to meet their statutory obligations based on natural 
disasters, wildfires, terrorism, and other threats to the homeland. The 
large presence in Iraq has drained readiness and equipment and 
personnel from the rest of our military. The surge will cost us dearly 
in billions of dollars and time, and we desperately need to repair, to 
reconstitute, and to reset our forces to face other significant threats 
at home and around the world.

We cannot stay the course we are on. We must change. Support our 
troops and our long-term national security by voting for this 
resolution.