---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `93c4bc8439f2cb359d011b6b15dc5dff`
`Mr. REED — 11 February 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to express my support for William 
Lynn to be confirmed as Deputy Secretary of Defense. Bill has a 
combination of experience and sound judgment. He worked here on Capitol 
Hill as a significant policy aide to Senator Kennedy on the Armed 
Services Committee. He has been the comptroller of the Department of 
Defense. He has detailed and specific knowledge of the vast programs 
that will be handed over to the DOD. He has also worked in industry. 
Frankly, the job of Deputy Secretary of Defense is a place in which all 
these roads come together--the relationship with Capitol Hill, the 
relationship with industry, and a detailed understanding and knowledge 
of the way the Pentagon really works from the inside, not from the 
outside.

He is uniquely situated to take on these daunting challenges that 
face us, at a time when we are engaged in two conflicts--Afghanistan 
and Iraq--and a continuing war against extremists across the globe and 
at a time when our budget is going to be challenged because of a 
declining economy in the United States and across the globe. The 
difficult judgments that have to be made require the expertise and 
experience Bill Lynn can bring and few can match.

One other thing that I think is particularly compelling about this 
nomination is the enthusiastic support of it by the Secretary of 
Defense, Bob Gates. There is no one in Government whom I admire more 
for their patriotism, their sacrifice to the Nation, and their service. 
The Secretary of Defense has made it very clear that he believes Bill 
Lynn is someone whom he not only can work with, but he will aid him 
immensely in his extraordinary challenges to face the threats I have 
already illustrated. For me, Bob Gates's testimony and endorsement is 
compelling evidence that this Senate should confirm Bill Lynn 
immediately this afternoon.

As I mentioned before, Bill worked in the Department of Defense. He 
has knowledge of the whole range of programs. That is absolutely 
critical because he will have to make judgments about these programs to 
advise the Secretary of Defense.

For his work at the Department of Defense--which has been talked 
about this afternoon, but this wasn't mentioned--he received the Joint 
Distinguished Civilian Service Award from the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff. Again, the military understands not only the important 
duty he is performing but also, in their own conduct and affairs, 
understands the values of integrity, character, and commitment to the 
national interest. He has won awards from the Army, Navy, and Air 
Force. He also received the 2000 Distinguished Federal Leadership Award 
from the Association of Government Accountants for his efforts to 
improve defense accounting practices.

He also gained valuable experience within private industry. Again, 
Bill is not unique in having an industry background. In fact, the 
current Deputy Secretary of Defense, Gordon England, came from an 
industry background. My observation of Secretary England is that his 
performance has been outstanding, aided by the insight he has had into 
the multibillion-dollar contracts that industry has with the Department 
of Defense, insight he has into the decisionmaking in corporate 
America, insight he has into the way business is done in the defense 
community. That has aided him, not disabled him, in doing an excellent 
job. Once again, Bill Lynn comes from a similar background. As Chairman 
Levin pointed out, the Secretary of the Navy, who I also believe has 
done an outstanding job, also came from a background in the defense 
industry.

This goes also to the other issue raised about the waiver. 
Essentially, Bill Lynn stands in the same shoes, I think, as Gordon 
England and others--ladies and gentlemen who worked in private industry 
but recognized when they took the oath to serve the people in this 
country, they had only one boss--the people of the United States. They 
are committed to that duty.

Also, I think, frankly, the rules have been followed scrupulously by 
his predecessors and will be followed by Bill Lynn regarding conflicts 
with his previous employer. I believe he is going to err on the side of 
caution when it comes to programs that may be under the purview of his 
previous employer, or anyone else, because having gotten to know Bill, 
I understand he is not only a man of intelligence but a man of 
character.

We have someone uniquely situated to begin to aid the Secretary of 
Defense in the important challenges before us: How do we create a 
strategy of redeploying forces successfully out of Iraq? How do we 
increase our presence in Afghanistan and help military and civilian 
agencies to deal with that troubling situation? How do we deal with 
issues of defense modernization? How do we prepare for longer term 
threats? How do we continue to be active across the globe to, we hope, 
preempt terrorist activities, whether it be in the Near East, Far East, 
or anyplace on this globe?



Again, Bill Lynn is superbly qualified to do this. He is a graduate 
of Dartmouth with a law degree from Cornell Law School, and a master's 
in Public Affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton--again, 
superb academic preparation and superb life preparation. He is someone 
who has, again, the character and the insights to render remarkable 
service to the Department of Defense.

I hope my colleagues will join with me in supporting this nomination, 
rounding out a team of excellent patriots and professionals in the 
Department of Defense. I must commend President Obama. He made a very 
sound, I won't say unusual, but unexpected announcement early on by 
offering the position of Secretary of Defense to Bob Gates. Bob served 
with distinction under President Bush. President Obama recognized, 
first, the quality of this Secretary, Secretary Gates, and also the 
need for continuity in the operations of the Department of Defense. 
That was a strong not only signal of continuity but endorsement of the 
work and effort of thousands and thousands of uniformed military 
personnel and civilian employees in the Department of Defense. That 
choice was amplified in his selection of Bill Lynn. Again, the 
endorsement of Secretary Gates speaks volumes about the team President 
Obama has put together.

I hope at the conclusion of this debate, we could send a very strong 
vote of confirmation and confidence in the team that President Obama 
has assembled--Secretary Gates, hopefully Deputy Secretary Lynn, and 
the other members--because the tasks before them are, indeed, daunting 
and because their success will be our success.