---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `93d1851aca6bdcb1a20a39ce35f4b878`
`Mr. DUNCAN — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Chairman, I rise in support of this bill, and I 
thank all who have worked to bring this legislation to the floor today.

I wish the bill went much further, but there are so many former 
Federal employees working for Federal contractors now, and so many 
present Federal employees who want to some day hitch on to this 
lucrative Federal gravy train, that the pressures against reform are 
tremendous.

Unfortunately, almost every Federal contract is a sweetheart or 
insider or friendship type deal. Almost all Federal contracts have at 
least one or usually several former Federal employees working for them.

Defense contractors are the prime examples. The International Herald 
Tribune had an article a year and a half ago describing what it called 
the revolving door at the Pentagon.

It said the top 20 defense contractors had hired over 300 retired 
admirals and generals during the 90s.

But this type of thing is rampant throughout the Federal Government.

Now I am not against the Federal Government contracting out many 
functions.

Usually, or often, the Federal bureaucracy is so wasteful and 
inefficient that Federal contractors can do things better or cheaper, 
even while making huge profits.

But some of the markups on contracts in Iraq have been mind boggling. 
I believe fiscal conservatives should be the ones most upset about some 
of the ripoff deals in Iraq.

Be that as it may, this bill helps highlight what has become a 
serious abuse of power, and abuse of the taxpayer, and this is a good 
start toward correcting this problem.