---
---

# RECOGNIZING 235TH BIRTHDAY OF U.S. ARMY
## `93d3065a040182ac9de0513a4866e03c`
`Mr. DJOU — 16 June 2010`

---


Mr. DJOU. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 286, which was 
introduced by my friends from Texas, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Carter. This 
resolution recognizes the 235th birthday of the United States Army and 
honors the valor, commitment, and sacrifice that members of the United 
States Army, their families, and Army civilians have displayed 
throughout the history of the United States Army.

I personally also want to note what the recognition of the Army 
birthday means to myself and my district. Three things I want to point 
out to the floor: First off, of course, it is my honor to represent 
Hawaii's First Congressional District, which is home to the 25th 
Infantry Division of the United States Army. It is also home of U.S. 
Army Pacific, Tripler Army Medical Center, Fort Shafter and of course 
my Army Reserve unit. All of which I take great pride in representing 
here in the Congress.

Second, I think it speaks to the strength and vitality and greatness 
of our Nation and our Nation's Army that I, for myself, a child of 
immigrants from Thailand and China, had the privilege of calling myself 
an officer in the United States Army Reserve. It is a true testimony of 
the greatness of our Nation and the greatness of our Armed Forces that 
the child of immigrants would be allowed to serve as an officer in the 
most powerful fighting force the world has ever known.

Third and finally, of course, I am enormously humbled to call myself 
a Member of the House of Representatives, and I think it is also 
testimony of the greatness of our military, Armed Forces, and for the 
United States Army that I had the privilege earlier today of sitting in 
a hearing with General Petraeus discussing current actions and 
operations going on in Afghanistan.

I think one of the beauties of our Army today is the fact that our 
Army is professional; it is well-trained; and it also is under civilian 
control; and that even four-star generals have to answer to the elected 
officials of our Nation's people.

As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and as a captain in 
the Reserve, I'm proud to speak in very strong support of this 
resolution.

On June 14, 1775, in Philadelphia, a weary group of Continental 
Congressmen worked by candlelight to lay out the provisions to form an 
Army. The result was a simple paragraph order for the colonial States 
to provide men and arms to continue an uphill fight against England. 
That simple paragraph order or resolution authorized the formation of 
10 rifle companies, and thus began the formation and the beginnings of 
our United States Army.

Today, 235 years later, we continue to honor the commitment and duty 
of the Army soldiers who have risked their lives to preserve our 
freedom. They have left a lasting mark on this Nation. During the 
Army's 235-year history, tens of thousands of these brave young men and 
women have selflessly served on distant battlefields to keep our Nation 
safe.

I am particularly proud of the residents of Hawaii who have served 
and continue to serve in the Army on behalf of our Nation, as well as 
the many Reservists and Guardsmen, many of whom are my personal friends 
with whom I have served with honor and distinction. I salute them for 
their service to our great Nation.

Today, as our Nation continues to fight the global war on terror, the 
Army has been key to providing the military capabilities it needs to 
persist in the struggle for liberty and democracy. Through the efforts 
of the U.S. Army, the world has been made a more secure, prosperous, 
and better place for all of mankind. The courage and dedication of 
those soldiers and their families are an inspiration to us all, and may 
the rest of us endeavor to be ''Army Strong'' in our own lives.

I am honored to speak in favor of this resolution and urge my 
colleagues to join me in support of H. Con. Res. 286 and recognize the 
235th birthday of the United States Army.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.