# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `93e8c1a96ed5b9bf7df660956da7d5fe`
`Mr. CASTLE â€” 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the legislation 
before us today mandating a hard deadline for the Secretary of Defense 
to significantly reduce our troop presence in Iraq.

Over the last several months, similar attempts on the part of the 
Democratic leadership to require an arbitrary date for troop withdrawal 
have gone nowhere, wasting precious time debating legislation that 
would be vetoed by the President. While I believe strongly that we must 
change course in Iraq and bring our men and women home, it would be a 
mistake for Congress to think it could disregard the complexity of this 
conflict by simply picking a random date for withdrawal. Forcing such 
an important decision without considering the advice of military and 
foreign policy leaders, could lead to the loss of many more lives and 
open the door for sectarian chaos to spread across the entire Middle 
East.

For this reason, I have been a leading supporter of the Iraq Study 
Group, also known as the Baker-Hamilton Commission, which in December 
2006 outlined a comprehensive approach for bringing a responsible 
conclusion to the conflict in Iraq. In fact, in early 2007, I went to 
the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and called on the Bush 
Administration to change course in Iraq and implement the Study Group's 
recommendations for a new, robust diplomatic offensive in the Middle 
East. Since then, Secretary of State Rice has taken several encouraging 
steps to open the lines of communication with key nations like Iran and 
Syria, and I am hopeful that my efforts, and those of my colleagues, 
have prompted the White House to improve its diplomatic efforts in the 
region.

This September, Gen. David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker will 
submit a very important report regarding the conflict in Iraq. While I 
am hopeful that this report will show progress, I also feel strongly 
that we must begin developing a responsible postsurge strategy. 
Therefore, on June 5, 2007, I joined over forty other Members of 
Congress--Republicans and Democrats--in introducing the Iraq Study 
Group Recommendations Implementation Act. The Study Group 
recommendations, which would bolster diplomacy, improve political and 
economic reconstruction, and handoff the combat mission to the Iraqis, 
represent the first truly bipartisan proposal for ending this conflict 
and bringing Americans home.

Clearly, there is no easy solution in Iraq. Still, it is extremely 
discouraging that the Democratic leadership continues to hold votes on 
''symbolic'' withdrawal timelines, while refusing to consider the 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group proposal--legislation that as of today has 
been cosponsored by 25 Democrats and 33 Republicans in the House.

Mr. Speaker, the bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Commission serves as a 
model for how we must work together in a responsible fashion to 
stabilize Iraq and get our brave soldiers off the streets. Rather than 
wasting time debating arbitrary timelines that disregard the complexity 
of the situation, it is critical that we come together now in support 
of a responsible exit strategy. I am encouraged that thirteen 
additional Members of Congress have signed-on to the Iraq Study Group 
Implementation Act since we introduced it over a month ago and I am 
hopeful that Members from across the political spectrum will join me in 
uniting behind this crucial effort.