---
---

# AMERICA COMPETES ACT
## `94099b72793bf773dc39982c81db2a09`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, instead of this body appointing 
an accusatory finger across the partisan aisle, what this body ought to 
be doing is invoking the old principle that in the old days, at the 
water's edge, partisanship stops. We have seen on both sides of the 
aisle too much of that partisanship, particularly in matters of war and 
peace. There is a genuine disagreement not only over the conduct of the 
war but the very fact that we are in this war to begin with. We can't 
do anything about that now. We were given false information, massaged 
information, misinformation that caused us to enter this war and, after 
a quick and very decisive and very impressive victory, then set about 
the process of an occupation that was fraught with error and 
misinformation. But that was then, and now is now. What is in the 
interest of the United States? Clearly it is to stabilize Iraq, if that 
is possible.

A distinguished group of Americans, five Republicans and five 
Democrats in the Iraq study commission, unanimously came together last 
winter and said what they thought would be the plan, the best way we 
could stabilize Iraq, led by an eminent and distinguished Republican, 
former Secretary of State and a former Chief of Staff in the White 
House to President Reagan, Jim Baker, and led by the longtime and 
distinguished and equally as respected former Congressman and former 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee in the House, Lee Hamilton.

Now, this is not a question about losing or winning a war; this is a 
question about, What is the best chance we have for stabilizing Iraq? 
Because clearly a stabilized Iraq in that part of the world is going to 
certainly help the neighbors in the region, and it is certainly going 
to help us, and clearly it is going to help the Iraqis.

So what did the Iraq study commission say? Well, they said it very 
clearly. I am reading from the Executive Summary:




 The primary mission of U.S. forces in Iraq should evolve to 


 one of supporting the Iraqi army, which would take over 


 primary responsibility for combat operations. By the first 


 quarter of 2008--


By the way, that is a year from now, that is April, that is the end 
of March--




 By the first quarter of 2008, subject to unexpected 


 developments in the security situation on the ground, all 


 combat brigades not necessary for force protection could be 


 out of Iraq.


It is true, they did not say ''should be out of Iraq.'' They said 
''could be out of Iraq.'' But they are giving a blueprint.

I continue with the quote:




 At that time, U.S. combat forces in Iraq could be deployed 


 only in units embedded with Iraqi forces, in rapid-reaction 


 and special operations teams, and in training, equipping, 


 advising, force protection, and search and rescue.


I conclude this particular paragraph:




 Intelligence and support efforts would continue. A vital 


 mission of those rapid reaction and special operations forces 


 would be to undertake strikes against al Qaeda in Iraq.


That is the Iraq Study Group report. It said: Go after al-Qaida. It 
said: Continue to train the Iraqi forces. It specifically talked about, 
in that training, embedding with Iraqi forces. It said ''force 
protection,'' meaning force protection for our forces and for U.S. 
personnel. And it said ''search and rescue'' missions. That is exactly 
what we have in front of us today to vote on.

Now, there is additional language put in here about the President 
would have to certify and waive on this and that progress by the Iraqi 
Government. Clearly, you want to give some indicators to the Iraqi 
Government of what we expect. Again, what we are voting on today is a 
goal of having redeployed--basically, with the waiver by the President, 
we are talking about October 1. This is April--May, June, July, August, 
September--6 months from now is the goal of starting the redeployment. 
It does not say ''withdrawal,'' it says ''redeployment'' because 
''redeployment'' is a term that is then defined by all of those things 
we just talked about. That is in this legislation we are going to vote 
on today.

Now, there are those in this body I certainly respect who would say 
they do not want any kind of conditions put on the President in order 
to conduct the war. I respect that. That is a difference of opinion 
that we have. But common sense would tell you that you cannot conduct a 
war if you do not have the support of the American people. The American 
people clearly want change. So it is time for us to start the process 
of the change.

Now, this Senator, along with most every Senator in this Senate, was 
in the meeting yesterday with General Petraeus. There was clearly a 
message that General Petraeus had hope, but seasoned with a great deal 
of reality, realizing the additional complexity. There were no clear-
cut answers yesterday in us meeting with the top general over there in 
Iraq, a general whom we all admire and respect. Yes, there is still 
hope. But there is also the need for change. This document starts the 
process of the change.

Now, it is my hope that after we go through this exercise, it will 
pass today--narrowly, just like it passed a month ago narrowly--the 
legislation will go down to the President--and he has already said he 
is going to veto it--and then is the opportunity for cooler heads, as 
the Good Book says, to come let us reason together. That is my hope.

So I will be voting for this supplemental funding request that funds 
the troops, that funds other necessary emergencies.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.