---
---

# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `940a497cc70fb76573faca988409c30f`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this very 
responsible funding bill. I commend the Chair and the ranking member 
for working together in a bipartisan way to come up with an outstanding 
bill.

Mr. Chairman, you are a true leader, and I respect the way you've 
handled yourself throughout the process.

In my former position as a Baltimore County Executive I was required 
to submit a $2 million operating budget each year, and I did so without 
raising taxes and without cutting vital public safety or economic 
development programs.

I call this bill today our Law Enforcement and Investment Budget for 
America. This is where we fulfill our obligation to protect our 
citizens from crime. It is where we invest in our economy, our sciences 
and new technologies. This is where we keep America competitive in a 
global economy.

I learned in my former position as county executive that if you 
neglect public safety, and you neglect public investment, the taxpayers 
end up paying a higher price down the road and get less for their 
money. They pay in more crime, a lagging economy and a higher price tag 
on new infrastructure.

Some of my friends on the other side are proposing across-the-board 
cuts. Congress should never impose such cuts for two reasons. First, 
you cut the meat with the fat, the good programs with the bad. Second, 
as a leader, you fail in your duty to make tough choices and to provide 
vision and direction for our country.

A proposed 1 percent cut would mean we can fund about 7,000 fewer 
bulletproof vests for cops in your police and sheriff departments.

A proposed 6 percent cut means $12 million less for STOP grants to 
fight violence against women.

For many years Congress has neglected the law enforcement budget in 
the CJS appropriations bill. We have underfunded law enforcement.

As a former prosecutor, I was shocked this year when the 
administration proposed a hiring freeze for the DEA at a time when 
drugs are the scourge of so many of our communities. This bill corrects 
that.

These are tough fiscal times, yet this is the first time in the 
history of our country that we have cut taxes while we are at war. We 
borrow from our children and countries like China, and then continue to 
spend and spend in Iraq. What kind of fiscal management is this? It 
leads to huge deficits, and it is fiscally irresponsible.

This CJS bill reflects new priorities and new direction. Congress 
would never propose a 1 percent cut in the funding of our troops in 
Iraq. Congress should never have a 1 percent cut in funding for cops on 
the beat in our communities. It is time we stand up for our cops and 
first responders, just like we stand up for or troops.

It is bad fiscal policy to have across-the-board cuts in the vital 
economic development programs of Commerce, Department and Census 
Bureau. Cuts in the census harm our local communities and leave us 
behind in the information economy.

Mr. Chair, if we did not have this deficit we confront today, I would 
support even more funding for law enforcement.