# CORPORAL STEPHEN R. BIXLER POST OFFICE
## `942bf67bc30923716cf7319d0c925d75`
`Mr. COURTNEY â€” 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I thank Congressman Clay. I also want to 
thank Congressman Westmoreland for his kind words in support of H.R. 
3325, which I'm the sponsor of, to name the post office at 235 Mountain 
Road in Suffield, Connecticut, after Corporal Stephen R. Bixler, who at 
the age of 20, on a second deployment in Iraq, lost his life serving 
our Nation.

As the prior speakers have indicated, this young man was not with us 
long, but made an extraordinary mark on all who knew him and served 
with him, particularly in his home of Suffield, Connecticut, which is a 
small Connecticut town of 14,000 people. It was founded in 1749 before 
our Nation even was born, and his family on his mother's side goes back 
three generations. As you can imagine, in a tight-knit, small 
community, he was well-known despite being a quiet young man because of 
his work in the community as an Eagle Scout. He was a varsity track 
athlete and an outstanding student.

He had a twin sister, Sandra, who graduated with honors from the 
University of Connecticut; and, clearly, Stephen could have followed 
that same path. But he followed a road less traveled, and he enlisted 
for the Marines before he even graduated from Suffield High School and, 
as I indicated, was on his second tour of duty when he lost his life on 
May 4, 2006.

His funeral at Sacred Heart Church in Suffield, which was attended by 
Archbishop Mansell from the Hartford Archdiocese, was an extraordinary 
outpouring of support from his community. And all I can say is that 
event was not the end as far as the town was concerned. They have held 
many ceremonies in memory of Stephen. They named a stretch of road in 
Suffield in his memory.

And it is fitting that the post office, which is the only Federal 
building in Suffield, should be named in his honor. His father has been 
a letter carrier for 35 years in the United States Post Office; but to 
be sure, our office solicited requests from the community to make sure 
that there was actual support in town. We had an outpouring of support: 
170 letters came in, again, people who knew him as a young child all 
the way up through his time in the Marines, and I will submit letters 
from the Governor on down in support of this measure at this point.























 State of Connecticut,























 Executive Chambers,



























July 20, 2007.


 Congressman Joe Courtney,


 Cannon House Office Building,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Congressman Courtney: I am writing to encourage you to 


 pursue legislation in the United States Congress that will 


 change the name of the U.S. post office on Mountain Road in 


 West Suffield, Connecticut to honor Marine Corporal Stephen 


 R. Bixler.



 As you know, Corporal Bixler was killed in Fallujah, Iraq 


 on May 3, 2006 while on foot patrol. Corporal Bixler was 


 proud of his service to the nation, and believed that he was 


 able to make a difference in the lives of the Iraqi citizens 


 he encountered. In addition to




 being a valiant member of our armed forces, Corporal Boxler 


 was a Suffield native and an Eagle Scout. Renaming the post 


 office in his honor would be an especially fitting tribute to 


 Corporal Bixler because it will be a lasting reminder of his 


 selfless service to our nation.



 I join with State Representative Ruth Fahrbach, Suffield's 


 Board of Selectmen and numerous residents of Suffield, in 


 urging you to pursue this legislation to preserve the memory 


 of one of our fallen heroes.





 Very truly yours,


























 M. Jodi Rell,


 Governor.