# HONORING THE WORK OF WELCOME HOME TROOPS
## `94320acba688dc35230b61f3ea8e6f60`
`Mr. ISSA — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. ISSA. Madam Speaker, today I rise in support of the efforts of 
the Welcome Home Troops, a Southern California based organization 
dedicated to ''Returning the Hearts of Our Soldiers to our Homeland.''

Welcome Home Troops is a non-profit organization based in Lake 
Elsinore, California. Its efforts extend beyond California to Texas, 
Kentucky, and future expansion to additional states. Dedicated to the 
reintegration of The Global War on Terrorism veterans back into the 
community, Welcome Home Troops provides support services to help 
servicemembers transition comfortably from combat to home, restore 
personal relationships, and encourage a productive and positive life 
after military service.

Welcome Troops sponsors job fairs, college fairs, financial aid 
counseling, relationship counseling, drug abuse counseling, Vets to 
Vets mentoring, and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) counseling. 
According to the National Center for PTSD, at least 18% of those 
serving in Iraq and at least 11% of those serving in Afghanistan will 
suffer from PTSD. Welcome Home Troops aspires to provide services that 
will lessen the effects of war time stresses.

In honor of Memorial Day, Welcome Home Troops will involve the 
community with a Military Appreciation night in Lake Elsinore, 
California on May 24, 2008. This full afternoon and evening will be 
filled with assistance outreach opportunities and family fun activities 
to be capped with an evening game of baseball.

Madam Speaker, I ask you to please join me in congratulating Welcome 
Home Troops for their dedication this Memorial Day and beyond to our 
returning servicemembers and their families.
