---
---

# ENERGY
## `943bef2d788973a41a6e0875e0d9c2fe`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia — 23 June 2008`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I thank my colleague from New York, the 
esteemed Congressman Ed Towns. I appreciate very much you speaking on 
this very important issue. It is an issue that has been creeping like a 
thief in the night into the pocketbooks and into the pockets of 
Americans, everyday working Americans.

We have seen the price of gas escalating quietly but steadily ever 
since 2001, I say to Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee from Houston, 
Texas, whom I am proud to serve with. And I see my other colleague, 
Barbara Lee from California. So we have got all parts of the Nation 
covered here.

But ever since 2001, when the price of gas was at $1.50, it has 
steadily gone up. And that is kind of ironic, given the fact that we 
elected an oilman to be our President and an oilman to be our Vice 
President. You would have thought that America would be taken care of 
by our President and our Vice President. But what we have seen since 
that administration came to power is prices going through the roof. 
And, like a thief in the night, people have now awakened to see that 
they have been gouged and stolen from by the oil industry, and it has 
all been while we were enjoying a deregulated and unregulated market 
and we were allowing the speculators, instead of the producers, to get 
a stranglehold on the American economy. So these speculators are 
driving up the price of gas, driving up the price of oil. It has become 
the number one issue in this country.

Mr. Speaker, while it is easy to peddle quick fixes, the hard truth 
is that there is no quick fix. It is kind of like the war in Iraq. We 
got in a little easier than it is going to take us to get out. By the 
way, ironically, some people believe that it was for the 35 billion 
barrels of oil beneath al-Anbar Province in Iraq that we went to war 
for. Some people believe that.

So oil has driven much of the policies of this administration. And 
quick fixes will not do at this point. We are rapidly reaching the 
point of peak oil, peak oil being the moment, Mr. Speaker, after which 
global oil supplies will


forever decrease. That moment is approaching. Meanwhile, global demand 
for oil is ever increasing. So we are reaching a point where we have 
dwindling supply and skyrocketing demand, and that means one thing, 
among others, but the biggest thing is that gas prices, high gas 
prices, are here to stay.

Now, the President came up with an energy plan, it was done in 
secrecy back in 2001, if you will remember. It seems to me that it was 
Vice President Cheney who convened a group of people, whom we still 
have not found out who those people were, in a task force to formulate 
this country's energy policy. Someone went to court to have the names 
and identities of those task force members revealed, and I don't think 
that lawsuit was successful. But I can only speculate on who was in 
that room setting the oil policy.

That policy went into effect back in August of 2005. When President 
Bush signed energy legislation into law, gas at the pump was selling 
for about $2.85 a gallon. Then, just 1 year later, in 2006, July 26, 
Energy Secretary Bodman celebrated the 1-year anniversary of energy 
legislation, kind of like ''mission accomplished.'' And that didn't pan 
out either. At that point, 1 year after the anniversary of the signing 
of the Bush administration energy policy, 1 year later gas had gone up 
to $3 a gallon. And, of course, back in May it went up, it continued to 
go up, to $3.81 in May. But now we are in June heading towards July, 
and folks are speculating that we will hit $5 a gallon by the end of 
the summer, and Americans are hurting.

So it comes as no surprise that the big oil President and the big oil 
Vice President propose more drilling, instead of suggesting real, 
lasting solutions to our energy problem.

The most effective way to address this problem is to start 
conserving. There is so much we can do to conserve energy. It means so 
much for our environment. We need to clean this environment up.

I returned from a trip just 1 month ago to the North Pole, Mr. 
Speaker. The folks up there are talking about what is going to happen 
as the ice melts and it will open up the shipping lanes, so there will 
be more traffic, more opportunity to traverse that area, and more 
opportunity to get at that oil that is up in the North Pole. And I 
suppose we will run all of the polar bears out trying to get to that 
oil, trying to sip every last drop of oil that this Earth has to offer, 
while at the same time creating environmental havoc.



So I would be happy to continue to have dialogue on this issue, but I 
know that there are other colleagues here who want to address this 
issue, so I would yield back at this point.