---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `943e845cb1bd8aa581a07620ca6bab91`
`Mr. ANDREWS — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Chairman, I believe that it is in the interest of 
freedom-loving people around the world to deny the present regime in 
Tehran access to a nuclear weapon.

The amendment that I submit does not raise the issue of the propriety 
of Iran having a nuclear weapon. The amendment I submit raises the 
issue of the propriety of this coequal branch of our government 
asserting its proper constitutional authority.

My amendment contemplates, Mr. Chairman, the following circumstances, 
and I want to be very clear about this. If our troops in Iraq become 
involved in a fight that requires them to in some way engage, in order 
to defend themselves, Iranian personnel in a given situation, they have 
the right and power and authority to do so.

Mr. Chairman, if our planners on the military side, as part of their 
normal planning exercises, as they do throughout the world and around 
the globe, find it necessary to game out and analyze the circumstances 
under which we would prepare for conflict with Iran, they have the 
authority to do so. Any American soldier or servicemember under any 
circumstances has the authority to defend himself or herself, and the 
President has the authority to act under emergency or self-defense 
circumstances. However, in those circumstances under which the 
President would wish to initiate a major contingency operation in Iran, 
this amendment says he may not use funds which we have authorized and 
appropriated to fight the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The amendment asserts the proper constitutional authority of this 
coequal branch of government. The Constitution vests us, as the duly 
elected representatives of the people, with the authority and 
responsibility to decide when this country will initiate hostilities in 
order to serve our national interest absent an emergency or a self-
defense situation. This amendment preserves that emergency authority of 
the President. It preserves the self-defense authority of the 
President. But it properly asserts the duly assigned constitutional 
role of this branch to decide the circumstances under which we should 
go forward with a major contingency operation.

Mr. Chairman, whether Members believe that we should be more 
aggressive or less aggressive with Iran, they should support this 
amendment. Whether Members believe that we should pursue more active 
diplomacy or a different kind of diplomacy, they should pursue and 
support this amendment. The question here is not the proper policy with 
respect to Iran. The question here is the proper allocation of 
constitutional authorities between and among the branches.

I would urge both Republican and Democratic Members to vote ''yes'' 
on this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.