# None
## `94434e860caef730648b2d5b77f63d1e`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 16 June 2009`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Madam President, on June 14, we celebrate the 234th 
birthday of the U.S. Army. For more than two centuries, the Army has 
fought to preserve the principles of democracy both here in the United 
States and around the globe.

It was 234 years ago today that the U.S. Army was established to 
defend our Nation. From the Revolutionary War to operations in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, our soldiers have served with honor and a deep 
commitment to our Nation's core values and beliefs.

In 1946, during an Army Day speech in Chicago, GEN Dwight D. 
Eisenhower said:




 This day of tribute to the men and women of the United 


 States Army is a day of national rededication to the ideals 


 they served so well. The Army believes in strength without 


 arrogance; in firmness without discourtesy; in loyalty 


 without servility. It lives with pride in its cherished 


 traditions of service to our commander-in-chief and to the 


 people to whom it belongs.


This quote is as true today as it was then. Our all-volunteer force 
has performed superbly during these challenging times and has lived up 
to and exceeded our greatest expectations.

This Army birthday is special because it is also the Year of the Non 
Commissioned Officer. Since 1775, the Army has set apart its NCOs from 
other enlisted soldiers by distinctive insignia of grade.

Throughout the Army's history, the noncommissioned officer corps has 
distinguished itself as the world's most accomplished group of military 
professionals. Historical and daily accounts of life as an NCO are 
exemplified by acts of courage and a dedication and a willingness to do 
whatever it takes to complete the mission.

I also pay tribute to the families of our Army soldiers who give so 
much of their lives for our Nation. The important role families play is 
vital to the Army's success. They have our Nation's deepest 
appreciation for the support and devotion they provide to our men and 
women in uniform.

Today I wish to celebrate the strength of our Nation and the strength 
of our Army by saluting our noncommissioned officer corps and the 
Army's soldiers, families and civilians by wishing them a happy 234th 
birthday!
