---
---

# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `9448bc63ffe8cf503d3233109ac1fbda`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 14 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we have a serious crisis confronting 
our country as a result of the House of Representatives' refusal to 
take up the Senate-passed Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. We 
know for a fact the following: We know that the Senate approved 
yesterday, with 69 votes, a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act 
crafted by Senator Rockefeller and Senator Bond that came out of the 
Intelligence Committee 13 to 2. This is about as bipartisan as it ever 
gets around here. We know in addition this bill is the only bill that 
can pass the House of Representatives. They took up yesterday a 21-day 
extension of existing law, and it was defeated. It was defeated because 
there were 20 to 25 House Democrats who didn't want the bill at all, 
want it to die, want to walk away from it and leave the American people 
unprotected.

In fact, there is a bipartisan majority for the Senate-passed bill in 
the House, and that is the only bill for which there is a bipartisan 
majority in the House. Now we have all learned that the House of 
Representatives is going to close up shop and simply leave town, 
arguing that somehow allowing this law to expire will not harm America.

We know that at the heart of this struggle is retroactive liability 
for communications companies that stepped up, in the wake of the 9/11 
disaster, at the request of the Government, to help protect us from 
terrorism. As a result, there are numerous lawsuits pending against 
these companies, I assume largely by the American Civil Liberties 
Union. The CEOs and the boards of directors of these companies have a 
fiduciary responsibility to their shareholders. These lawsuits have the 
potential to put them out of business. As a result of doing their duty 
and responding to the request of the President of the United States to 
help protect America, they run the risk of being put out of business. 
That is what is before us. This retroactive liability problem 
continues. It is not solved by continuation of existing law.

In addition, with the law expiring, it hampers opportunities 
prospectively in the future to surveil new terrorist targets overseas. 
So the notion that somehow no harm is done by allowing the law to 
expire is simply incorrect. In fact, it borders on outrageous.

This was going to be another example of bipartisan cooperation on 
behalf of the American people. We saw it at the end of the year last 
year when we passed a bipartisan AMT fix without raising taxes on 
anybody else. We passed an energy bill without a tax increase and 
without a rate increase. We met the President's top line on the 
appropriations bills. And, yes, we appropriated $70 billion for Iraq 
and Afghanistan without any kind of micromanagement. At the beginning 
of this year, we came together. It was a bit challenging in the Senate, 
but we came together and passed a bipartisan stimulus bill to try to 
deal with our slowing economy. We did it in record time. In fact, the 
President had a signing ceremony 2 days ago.

I am wondering why this new bipartisan spirit we experienced in 
December and again in January is breaking down on a matter that is 
extraordinarily important to protecting the American people. It is 
absolutely irresponsible for the House of Representatives to simply 
throw up its hands and leave, particularly when the only measure that 
enjoys a bipartisan majority in the House is exactly what enjoyed a 
bipartisan majority in the Senate. It is the only measure that can pass 
the House. So the refusal of the House leadership to take up and pass 
the only bill that could possibly pass is an act of extraordinary 
irresponsibility. Nothing else would pass over there.

I don't know why the House is even thinking about leaving town. They 
have an important responsibility to help protect the American people. 
The opportunity is right before them, and they will not take it.