---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `94495a6a9b12894fdb24e836d422791e`
`Mr. BIDEN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. I say to my friend: Ask. Let me give you an example. I 
will be concrete. It is like pushing an open door. I asked for a 
meeting, I say to my friend, in the tradition of Senator Lugar when he 
was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.

I asked for a meeting, a private meeting with the Permanent Five of 
the Security Council, who, as my good friend knows, is: China, Russia, 
England, France, and the United States.

All five of those Ambassadors, including our own, Khalilzad, agreed 
to meet with me and two other members of the Foreign Relations 
Committee privately 5 weeks ago--on Monday I think it was 5 weeks ago. 
We sat in a conference room overlooking the East River for about an 
hour and a half.

I asked the question to all five, including our Ambassador. I said: 
What would you do, gentlemen--one lady; the British Ambassador is a 
woman. I said: What would you do, gentleman and lady, if the President 
of the United States asked each of your countries to participate in 
convening an international conference on Iraq?

One of the Ambassadors--since this was a private meeting I will not 
name him--said: Senator, I would ask your President: What took you so 
long to ask?

Then I can refer to the French Ambassador. The French Ambassador 
pointed out that there is an inevitability of us leaving. And if, in 
fact, we leave a shattered Iraq, his country is in trouble. Remember, 
last August we were reading about automobiles being torched from 
Marseilles to Normandy. Why? Over head scarves. Between 10 and 14 
percent of the French population is Muslim. The last thing the French 
need is a radicalized, cannibalized Iraq. It went on from there.


My point is, the President--I promise you--has not asked. He has not 
asked. I think my friend from Indiana knows, at least indirectly--
because Ambassador Khalilzad, I believe, spoke to him; he was there 
with me--there is a consensus among many in the administration to ask, 
but there is still this overwhelming reluctance that we don't need 
anybody's help; we can do it. Let me tell you, that is a vanity which 
is a burden, a significant burden.

There are three things we should be doing immediately. And I know we 
have a disagreement on this, in my view, redefining the mission of 
Americans who are there being killed and wounded. We are not going to 
settle this civil war by remaining on the faultlines. It is not going 
to happen. Even to totally quell it, you know--as a military expert, I 
defer to you--we don't have enough troops with the surge. If you have 
500,000 troops, you could sit on the faultlines. It wouldn't solve the 
problem, but you could send it underground. But we don't. I wouldn't 
even advise it if we did because there is no underlying political 
rationale.

My point is, redefine the mission. Were I President today, which is a 
presumptuous thing to say, I would be doing exactly what General Jones 
recommended. I would be pulling back to the borders. I would be dealing 
with force protection. I would be focusing on al-Qaida of Mesopotamia. 
I would be focusing on training Iraqi forces. I would not be focused on 
going door to door in Sunni or Shia neighborhoods in a city of 6.2 
million people. I would not have an American convoy traveling the 
streets with roadside bombs being blown up.

The second thing we need to do, but it is not required to support 
this amendment, there is an incentive to the world, to the region, and 
to the recalcitrant leadership in Baghdad to say: Hey guys, we are 
drawing down. For the mission I just stated--and I defer to my friend--
you don't need 160,000 troops for the Jones mission, for lack of a 
better way of phrasing. You need closer to 50,000. Guess what. That is 
going to get the attention, as my friend Carl Levin has been saying for 
some time, of the Iraqis. They may have their altar call. I am not 
counting on it, but they may.

The third thing we should be doing is, if you look at the David 
Ignatius piece in the Post today, what Senator Lugar and I and others 
and maybe my friend from Virginia have been talking about for 4 years--
we talked about it before we went in. Who is talking to the tribal 
chiefs? Who is talking to the local folks? Who is engaging them? What 
are we finding out now? Just read the Ignatius piece. All of a sudden, 
it is like, my goodness, maybe we should be talking to these guys. So 
here is the deal. When you get to this, you say: Look, here is what 
your Constitution says, and here is what you voted on in your 
Parliament to implement articles 15, 16, 17 and 18, which allows you to 
become a region, essentially a state like the United States. Write your 
own Constitution. It can't supersede the federal one. Allow you to own 
your local security.

Why is it working in Anbar to the extent it is? It is working because 
we said: Look, we promise you, tribal leaders, nobody is going to send 
anyone from Baghdad for you. There ain't going to be any Kurds or 
Sunnis in here. You set up your own police force. Cut through all the 
diplomatic jargon. That is what we did. That is it. Guess what. Once we 
did that, the tribal sheiks whistled and said: Boys, you can join. They 
had 10,000 people show up


who wanted to be cops or police. Why? Because Sunnis were going to be 
guarding Sunnis.

So this stuff about political movement is a joke. Not a joke--that is 
the wrong way to say it. It is a fiction. There is nothing unity about 
that.

I sat next to Abdul Sattar for 2 hours, the guy who got blown up last 
Thursday, the tribal sheikh who led the insurrection against al-Qaida 
Mesopotamia, told me how safe everything was in Ramadi. They land me 
and my staff and the Senator from Arkansas in a Blackhawk helicopter 
with two Cobra gunships. We go inside the city. We are told how safe it 
is. I can walk down the street; that is true. We have a sandstorm. I 
say: No helicopters coming. Can you drive to Baghdad? No, no, no. It 
ain't that safe. Then 7 days later I get a call from a reporter from 
the Washington Post: Senator, didn't you spend a lot of time with the 
same tribal chief the President was with at the airbase? I said: Yes. 
In this safe city that he runs, with an American tank sitting in front 
of his house, with bodyguards, he got blown to smithereens.

The generic point I am making here is the idea that somehow we are 
going to be able to negotiate these faultlines is beyond our ability. 
But it is possible, working with Sunni, Shia, Kurd, we may be able to 
augment their physical security as they make this transition.

What did we do in Dayton? It is not precisely analogous, but it is 
analogous. There was more sectarian violence from Vlad the Impaler to 
Milosevic than in 5,000 years of history of what we now call Iraq. That 
is a fact. That is a historical fact. What did we do? As my friend from 
Indiana knows, I was deeply involved in pressuring President Clinton 
from 1993 on to take action in the Balkans. What did we finally do in 
Dayton in a bipartisan way? We called in Russia, the European powers. 
We then brought in the Serbs, Milosevic, the Croats, Tudjman--who, as 
my friend knows, was no box of chocolates--and Izetbegovic. We got them 
all in one room. We essentially locked the door. We said: Figure it 
out, folks.


What did they figure out? Separate the parties. Even I was a little 
concerned about the Republika Srpska within Bosnia. What did we do? We 
said: Your militia can now become your police force. That is, in 
essence, what we did. We said to the Croats and the Bosnians, who were 
Muslims: You have to coexist in this other place. This place called 
Sarajevo is going to be a capital city, but it ain't going to govern 
the whole country in the way in which the capital of Washington, DC, 
has influence over the rest of America.

Guess what. To truncate this, the West has had an average of roughly 
20,000 troops there for 10 years. What has been the result? Knock on 
wood--not one has been killed, not one has been shot dead. The ethnic 
cleansing has stopped. What are they doing now? Attempting to amend 
their Constitution to become part of Europe.

I asked my staff to go back. I said: Tell me how the repatriation is 
going on. People are returning. Of the 2.2 million refugees in Bosnia, 
internal or external, 1.1 million have returned to their homes. Almost 
half a million have returned as minority returns, Serbs moving back 
into predominantly Croat neighborhoods, Croats moving back into 
predominantly Bosniak or Serb neighborhoods. It is painful. It takes 
time. But what did we do? We got them all in a room, figuratively 
speaking.

We have to get them in a room, Senator Lugar. We have to get them in 
a room. Because let me tell you something, some in the administration 
privately say to me: Joe, you are right. There is an inevitability to a 
federal system. The difference between an inevitability and us being 
the catalyst to bring it about may be years. That is thousands of 
deaths, maybe tens of thousands, counting Iraqis and American. We don't 
have that time. And look, I don't want to criticize the President. I 
don't. God love him, I don't care whether he gets credit or blame at 
this point. But let me tell you one thing for certain: What 
Presidential leadership is about is a change in the dynamic of 
situations that are admittedly out of control. It requires taking 
risks. Thus far, the only risk we have taken is the lives of our 
troops. We have taken virtually no diplomatic risks.

I say to my friends, there is a reason why, although what I am 
proposing here is not ideal, I think there is a reason why so many 
people--left, right and center--have come to this conclusion. One thing 
about us Americans is, we have ultimately led the world as a 
consequence of two traits we possess, in my opinion, that exceed that 
of any other country. It is not just our military power; it is our 
idealism coupled with our pragmatism. It gets down to a very pragmatic 
question: If you don't like Biden et al.'s political solution, what is 
yours? What is yours?

The world is waiting. They are literally waiting. No one has the 
capacity, no group of nations has the capacity, absent our active 
cooperation and engagement, to do anything to better the situation. We 
do. The potential power is in our hands. But I respectfully suggest 
that we can't do it by ourselves. We have lost the credibility to do 
that, rightly or wrongly.

So it takes me to the essence of this amendment. The amendment simply 
says--and I will not take the time to read it; I know other people wish 
to speak. I might add, this is the first and only time in the last 3 
months I have spoken on the floor. I apologize for the time, but I 
think it is the single most critical issue we face. I know my friends 
think that too.

Regardless of your political persuasion, how do you attend to the 
agenda each of us has, from the right or the left, to deal with the 
social ills and concerns of America until we end this war? We are going 
to spend, counting it all, $120 billion a year. How do you deal with 
that--the Republican approach to dealing with generating economic 
growth or the Democratic approach? How do you deal with tax structure 
and tax policy? How do you do this?

Look, it is the ultimate preoccupation, with good reason, of the 
American people. Again, I know no one more loyal or knowledgable about 
the U.S. Armed Forces whom I have served with in the Senate than my 
friend from Virginia. He knows there is only one group of Americans 
making a sacrifice now--it is the thousands of families, thousands, 
166,000 families. It is those families. They are the only ones. But 
guess what. It is against the Senate rules to refer to the Gallery by 
pointing to them. But I will refer to previous Galleries. Everyone who 
sits in this Gallery, they get it. They get it, whether they have a 
child, son, daughter, husband or wife there.


(Ms. KLOBUCHAR assumed the Chair.)