# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `94505023db83f6f040b66bd3eb2132f8`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, the Aegis BMD program provides 
an important and improving missile defense capability of $105 million, 
and that is to increase the missile production rate. The THAAD system 
has shown good success in its testing program thus far. The bill offers 
$25 million new for the coproduction of the Arrow system and $10 
million to study the suitability of the THAAD missile to serve as a 
follow-on to Israel's Arrow system. We also have an increase of $25 
million for the accelerated joint development of short-range ballistic 
missile defense, and that is for Israel.

In our bill we had a budget request, and it included $310 million for 
the proposed development of long-range missile defenses in Europe. That 
was 10 interceptors in Poland and a large radar in the Czech Republic. 
The U.S. is just starting negotiations with those nations, and it 
appears unlikely there are going to be any final agreements before 
2009. The proposed interceptor has not yet been developed and is not 
planned to be tested until 2010. As a result, the proposed construction 
and deployment activities are premature. So what we do in the bill is 
reduce the request $85 million for construction activities, and we 
fence the remaining 2008 funds requested for deployment until two 
things happen: No. 1, that the host nations have approved any missile 
defense deployment agreements; and No. 2, that the Congress receives an 
independent assessment examining the full range of options for missile 
defense in Europe.

Let me tell my colleagues about the airborne laser. This is a program 
that has been in some difficulty. What we did was reduce the funding of 
$548 million requested by $200 million. We discussed it at length in 
the markup. The airborne laser is a very expensive, high-risk 
technology demonstration program of a chemical laser, and you have to 
take huge quantities of chemicals and put them in a 747. There is 
excellent technology that is being developed on a solid-state laser 
system, which would fill the volume only from me to Senator Warner. It 
could easily be put into an airplane, but we think the cost of this 
program is exceptionally high. It is going to cost $5 billion; $3.5 
billion has already been spent. We felt to hold back on this 
development by only $200 million out of $548 million would be wise. I 
will go into more detail at a later time.

We also authorized provisions to improve acquisition and oversight of 
ballistic missile defense programs, and I won't go into the details on 
that.

I will tell my colleagues, in conclusion, on our strategic forces 
with regard to the B-52 bomber modernization program, we had unanimity.

With regard to the space programs where there has been difficulty 
with a number of them, we had unanimity on that in the committee, and 
we bring that forth in the report. I will provide those issues later.

Then on nuclear weapons issues, the reliable replacement warhead, we 
continue unanimously through the next year in what is called the phase 
II activities. Then an evaluation can be made as to whether to go 
forward in phase III. But there is a great deal of


promise that is shown in the reliable replacement warhead, which has a 
great deal of promise of being safer and more secure and less explosive 
power, more geared to today's targets.

So that is the report from our committee.

Mr. President, following the bloodiest of America's wars, President 
Abraham Lincoln, in his second inaugural address, said that one of the 
greatest obligations in war is to take care of the widow and the 
orphan. The U.S. Government ought to plan, as a cost of the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, for taking care of our veterans and their widows, 
widowers, and orphans.

Over the days ahead, this body will have the privilege of honoring 
the men, women, and families who have given the ultimate sacrifice in 
service to the Nation. We will have the opportunity to remove the last 
injustice facing our veterans. That injustice is the one that offsets 
dependents indemnity compensation, a benefit from the Veterans' 
Administration, with the Survivor Benefit Plan, which is paid for by 
our veterans. Those who pay out of their own paycheck into the Survivor 
Benefit Plan, which is like an insurance program to which survivors 
would be entitled, don't get the full benefit because of the surviving 
spouses' and children's eligibility under the dependents indemnity 
compensation through the Veterans' Administration.

I have filed amendment 2000 to end that injustice. I am pleased that 
Senator Hagel will join me in this endeavor as an equal cosponsor. For 
7 years I have been trying to pass this legislation that will remove 
this offset to take care of the widows, widowers, and orphans who have 
lost a loved one to combat- or service-connected injuries. Last year, 
this body passed a similar amendment by 92 to 6. I hope that all of my 
fellow Senators and the majority of the House will pass this amendment 
to the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act.

Some who object to this amendment will say the cost is too high, $8.2 
billion over 10 years. But to those who object, isn't it an obligation 
of the Government to take care of the families affected by the loss of 
their loved ones? This Senator passionately and firmly believes it is. 
Last year, when the Senate passed this amendment that left out some 
beneficiaries and required repayment of refunds, the cost was $9.6 
billion. Now, the cost is lower, all beneficiaries are covered, and the 
beneficiaries will not have the burden of repaying refunds that should 
not have been required in the first place. There should never have been 
an offset.

However, because of the offset, airmen, seamen and privates will find 
it difficult to make financial ends meet. I say that the families of 
the men and women who do not return home from Iraq and Afghanistan, who 
have already lost so much, should not have to endure financial 
hardships because of this benefits offset.

Now, the Senate has an opportunity to change this injustice as we 
debate the National Defense Authorization Act. If we respond as we did 
last year, passing this legislation with overwhelming support, then 
when it gets down to a conference committee, we must insist that the 
House support this provision in conference.

Mr. President, I wish to speak on the Senate Armed Services Committee 
bill being considered by the Senate, S. 1547, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. Overall it is a good, balanced 
bill that works to ensure the troops are trained, equipped, and 
supported. The bill was reported favorably to the Senate on a unanimous 
vote of the committee, a good indicator of the bipartisan support for 
the bill and a reflection on he manner in which the committee operates 
under Senator Levin's leadership, and Senator Warner's leadership 
before that.

Specifically, however, I wish to discuss the work of the Subcommittee 
on Strategic Forces, which I have had the privilege of chairing this 
year. The Strategic Subcommittee had a good year and it has been a real 
pleasure to work with Senator Jeff Sessions and his staff. We have 
worked together to resolve a number of difficult issues.

The committee held a total of five hearings and several briefings 
covering the wide range of issues under the jurisdiction of the 
subcommittee. This includes space and intelligence programs, strategic 
systems such as bombers, and submarine and ground-launched ballistic 
missiles, nuclear weapons programs and issues, the missile defense 
program, and the bulk of the defense-funded activities at the 
Department of Energy.

In the area of ballistic missile defense, the committee continued 
implementing the policy we established last year--placing a priority on 
the development, testing, fielding, and improvement of effective near-
term missile defense capabilities, particularly to protect forward-
deployed U.S. forces and allies against existing threats from short- 
and medium-range ballistic missiles.

In order to provide protection against existing and near-term missile 
threats to our forward-deployed forces, allies, and friends, the bill 
would authorize an additional $315 million to increase or accelerate 
work on near-term missile defense capabilities. This includes $255 
million for the Aegis BMD, Patriot PAC-3, and THAAD systems, which I 
will describe shortly. It also authorizes an additional $60 million for 
joint US-Israeli work on the Arrow missile defense system and on short-
range missile defense. These increases are offset by reductions in far-
term and lower priority programs.

With respect to the overall level of funding, the committee 
authorized a total of $10.1 billion for the ballistic missile defense 
programs of the Missile Defense Agency and the Army. That is a net 
reduction of $231 million below the budget request for the Missile 
Defense Agency, just barely 2 percent.

In terms of specific budget actions, let me summarize what is in the 
bill. The bill would authorize the entire Army funding request for the 
Patriot PAC-3 program, including funding for its ''Pure Fleet'' 
initiative. The committee also authorized an additional $75 million to 
procure 25 additional PAC-3 missiles.

The Patriot PAC-3 system is our only ballistic missile defense system 
proven to be effective in combat, and we do not have enough PAC-3 units 
or missiles to provide the capabilities that our combatant commanders 
need today.

The committee authorized an addition of $75 million for the Aegis 
Ballistic Missile Defense, BMD, program to increase the production rate 
of Standard Missile-3, SM-3 interceptors, procure 15 additional SM-3 
missiles, and accelerate work on the Aegis BMD Signal Processor and 
Open Architecture program.

The Aegis BMD program provides an important and improving missile 
defense capability to our regional combatant commanders to defend 
against existing short- and medium-range missile threats. But our 
senior military leaders responsible for missile defense have 
acknowledged that we need more of the SM-3 interceptors.

The committee approved an increase of $105 million for the Terminal 
High Altitude Area Defense, THAAD, system to increase the missile 
production rate, begin the upgrade of the evolved THAAD interceptor, 
and to conduct an additional test.

The THAAD system has shown good success in its testing program so 
far, and it holds significant potential to defend many regions against 
most ballistic missiles. But again, the Department has not planned or 
budgeted for enough THAAD missiles or systems to provide the capability 
our combatant commanders need.

The bill would add $25 million for co-production of the Arrow 
missile, and added $10 million to study the suitability of the THAAD 
missile to serve as a follow-on to Israel's Arrow system.

The bill authorizes an increase of $25 million for accelerated joint 
development of a short-range ballistic missile defense, SRBMD, system 
for Israel. This is intended to provide a capability to defend against 
the type of short-range missiles and rockets that were fired at Israel 
last summer from Lebanon.

I mentioned that the funding for these additions was offset by 
reductions in funding for lower priority, high-risk, or far-term 
programs. I want to describe two of these reductions in the bill.

The budget request included $310 million for a proposed deployment of 
long-range missile defenses in Europe: 10 interceptors in Poland and a 
large radar in the Czech Republic. The


United States is just starting negotiations with those nations, and it 
appears unlikely there will be any final agreements before 2009. In 
addition, the proposed interceptor has not yet been developed, and is 
not planned to be tested until 2010. As a result the proposed 
construction and deployment activities are premature.

In the bill the subcommittee reduced the $85 million requested for 
construction activities and fenced the remaining fiscal year 2008 funds 
requested for deployment until two things happen: 1) The host nations 
have approved any missile defense deployment agreements; and, 2) The 
Congress receives an independent assessment examining the full range of 
options for missile defense in Europe. All other activities could 
continue, such as studies, planning, and design activities, and 
negotiations.

The bill would reduce funding for the Airborne Laser Program by $200 
million from the $548 million requested. This is an issue we discussed 
during the markup, and I want to provide some background on the 
committee's decision to reduce ABL funding.

The Airborne Laser is a very expensive, high-risk technology 
demonstration program that is not scheduled to provide an operational 
capability before 2018. So everyone should be clear that it is NOT a 
near-term system.

The cost of the ABL program is very high, and the capability it might 
be able to provide--if the technology can even work--appears rather 
limited. The program has a history of cost overruns and schedule 
delays.

Since the program started, the total cost of the development program 
to complete the first ABL shoot-down test in 2009 has ballooned to be 
$5 billion. And the Congressional Budget Office has an initial cost 
estimate that the ABL program could cost as much as $36 billion to 
develop, build, and operate a fleet of just seven Airborne Laser 
aircraft.

For that huge sum of money, we could fund a very robust set of 
missile defense capabilities with near-term programs like PAC-3, Aegis 
BMD, and THAAD.

The funding reduction in the bill would not terminate the ABL 
program, but it would cause some delay in the program. There have 
already been four delays in the planned date of the first shoot-down 
test, and this would probably mean an additional delay.

The policy we established in law last year makes it clear that our 
priority is on near-term, effective missile defense systems that can 
provide needed capabilities against existing and near-term threats. The 
bill authorizes additional funding for exactly such systems, and 
reduces funding for systems like the Airborne Laser to offset the 
increases.


The committee considered this matter during our markup, and defeated 
an amendment to restore the $200 million to the ABL program. I 
anticipate that we will consider the ABL again and at some length.

The committee also authorized provisions to improve acquisition and 
oversight of ballistic missile defense programs. For example:

The bill would extend by 5 years the requirement for the Comptroller 
General to assess the ballistic missile defense program annually.

The bill would require the Department of Defense, starting in fiscal 
year 2009, to submit the budget request for the Missile Defense Agency 
using regular budget categories (research and development, procurement, 
operation and maintenance, and military construction), and make certain 
acquisition and oversight improvements.

Until now, DOD has requested and Congress has approved MDA's use of 
exclusively RDT&E funds for all MDA activities, including fielding, 
operating, and building of missile defense systems. This is the only 
program for which this exception has been made, and it is no longer 
necessary.

The bill would also ensure that the Director of Operational Test and 
Evaluation has full access to missile defense test and evaluation data, 
just as is the case for all other major defense acquisition programs.

In the area of strategic forces, the bill includes additional funds 
to continue the B-52 Bomber modernization program and consolidates 
funds for prompt global strike into a single defense-wide account. 
Moving the money from the Navy and Air Force lines to the combined line 
for prompt global strike should allow a more focused approach to the 
technology challenges, such as thermal protection, and allow more 
options to be explored, such as the Army's approach to prompt global 
strike, which is currently not funded. In addition, consolidation 
should allow the Strategic Command to have a more balanced program that 
more closely meets the command's requirements. The bill also includes a 
3-year extension of the annual prompt global strike report.

The space programs continue to be one of the more difficult areas for 
the subcommittee. Although there has been improvement in the management 
of most of the many space programs, the scope of the programs continues 
to challenge both the services and the contractors. All of the 
communication; missile warning; position, navigation, and timing--GPS; 
and weather satellite systems have simultaneous modernization programs 
under way. In some instances the move to the next generation of 
programs is occurring before the current modernization program is in 
place, and in some cases the current modernization program is being 
terminated early to start the next one. All of this activity serves to 
exacerbate financial, technical, and schedule pressures on all of the 
programs.

The Transformational Communications Program, T-Sat, the Global 
Positioning Satellite III and the Space-Based Infrared Satellite 
program--SBIRS--are all systems that fall into the category of multiple 
upgrade programs.

The bill includes additional funds for several satellite programs 
that are being terminated early and where there is very high risk that 
the follow-on program might not be ready on time. To alleviate the risk 
of these programs' gaps, funds are included to buy a fourth Advanced 
Extremely High Frequency communications satellite to ensure that there 
is no communications gap if there is an issue in the T-SAT program, and 
for the third SBIRS missile warning satellite program, to ensure that 
there is no gap in missile warning capability.

The T-SAT program itself is fully funded. While there is hope that 
the first T-SAT will launch on time in fiscal year 2016, I would note 
that there hasn't been one satellite to make its scheduled launch date 
8 years in advance.

The bill also terminates the space radar program and provides funds 
for alternative approaches for space radar capabilities.

For the past several years the subcommittee has addressed a variety 
of contentious nuclear weapons issues. Again this year, the 
subcommittee is faced with a difficult decision. The Departments of 
Defense and Energy, through the Nuclear Weapons Council, have approved 
the start of a Reliable Replacement Warhead, RRW, program. This new 
warhead could eventually be a replacement for the current W-76 warhead 
in the reentry vehicle for the Trident D-5 missile on ballistic missile 
submarines.

The Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, 
NNSA, budget request for fiscal year 2008 includes a request for funds 
for the RRW for phase 2A and phase 3 activities. At the time the budget 
was submitted, the NNSA thought that it would be further along with 
phase 2 activities than it is, and considered the possibility of moving 
to phase 3 in fiscal year 2008. The bill includes funding for the RRW, 
consolidated in a single line, but $43 million less than the $238 
million requested. The bill clearly limits the work by the NNSA and the 
Navy to activities for RRW to phase 2A activities.

Let me explain what I mean by limiting activities to phase 2A 
activities and why we took this action. The nuclear weapons acquisition 
process is organized in a phased approach from phase 1 to 7, with 6 
being deployment and 7 being dismantlement. Any decision to manufacture 
or deploy an RRW, which would occur at phases 5 and 6 respectively, 
will no doubt be very controversial. Over the course of the next 4 to 5 
years significant policy and technical discussion and debate will 
surely take place on the RRW.

To begin the discussion, however, the bill recommends a cautious 
first step, recognizing that many questions need answers before any 
final decisions are


made. The bill does not decide the fate of the RRW. That is a decision 
for a future Congress and a future administration.

The bill also includes a requirement for new nuclear posture review 
and a sense of the Congress to help frame the nuclear policy debate for 
the next administration. To ensure that weapons dismantlements 
continue, the bill includes an increase of $20 million to the budget 
request of $52 million to support nuclear weapons dismantlement.

I would like to note that last night I returned from an extensive 4-
day visit to all three of the Department of Energy nuclear weapons 
laboratories. While I discussed many issues with the laboratory 
directors and their staff, including nonproliferation issues, we spent 
a considerable amount of time on the RRW. Most of the discussions were 
highly classified, and so I cannot go into substantial detail here. But 
I want to ensure my colleagues that the progress made by the 
laboratories under the Stockpile Stewardship Program is remarkable and 
that there are many new opportunities to improve the safety, security, 
and reliability of nuclear weapons, which in turn should lead to very 
substantial reductions in the overall size of the stockpile--without a 
return to nuclear weapons testing.

Wrapping up the balance of the Department of Energy issues, the bill 
includes two provisions that would task the GAO to review two 
significant areas of concern at DOE. The first study is on the 
structure and management of the protective forces at DOE sites, and the 
second one on the future plans for the environmental restoration 
programs.

In closing, the Strategic Subcommittee has a broad area of 
responsibility, much of it controversial, but working with Senator 
Sessions, we have been able to resolve the issues so the national 
security interests of our country are foremost.

I yield the floor.
