---
---

# SERGEANT LEA ROBERT MILLS BROOKSVILLE AVIATION BRANCH POST OFFICE
## `945e4cb82922180508e0c95073ec60e7`
`Mr. SHAYS — 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

From all we know about Sergeant Lea Robert Mills, he was a dedicated 
and honorable Marine who hoped to make a difference in people's lives. 
Inspired to volunteer for the military after the September 11 terrorist 
attacks, Sergeant Mills gave his life fighting for those values we hold 
dearest.

Sergeant Mills of Masaryktown, Florida, joined the Marines after his 
graduation from Hernando High School in 2002. He wanted to serve on the 
front lines in the war on terror, and he wanted to make a difference. 
Always one to do his best, Sergeant Mills advanced quickly in rank and 
received many honors, becoming a leader to his beloved Marine comrades.

On April 28, 2006, at age 21, he was killed by a terrorist IED 
explosion while on patrol in Iraq, leaving behind his young wife, 
Keesha, and a very loving family. Sergeant Mills was proud to serve his 
Nation and strongly believed that he was doing the right thing for his 
country.

With gratitude for his bravery and sacrifice to his country, I ask 
all members to join me in supporting H.R. 514, which will rename the 
aviation post office in Brooksville, Florida, in his honor.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation was, I think, submitted by Ginny Brown-
Waite, who is in transit. I hope that if we get to the next bill and I 
still control time, I could yield her time to speak on this issue, if 
it is all right with my colleagues.