# TRIBUTE TO KAYLEE MARIE RADZYMINSKI
## `94617c71507b6766fa80cfb23ce768e4`
`Mr. WAMP — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. Madam Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge an outstanding 
young lady from the Third Congressional District of Tennessee, Kaylee 
Marie Radzyminski, of Cleveland, Tennessee. Kaylee is an incredibly 
special young lady with great ambitions and a strong sense of pride in 
her country and her military.

Kaylee joined the United States Naval Sea Cadet Corp in December 2002 
and has befriended many of our men and women in uniform as she has 
traveled to our military bases and met with our soldiers first hand. In 
talking with some soldiers who had just returned from Iraq, she learned 
that among the things they missed while away from home was 
entertainment. So when Kaylee was 14 years old, she started an 
organization known today as Tunes 4 the Troops which consists of her 
collecting compact discs and DVDs and sending them to our soldiers who 
are defending our country.

As of last week, Kaylee has sent over 25,000 CDs and DVDs with a 
value of over $375,000.00. Kaylee has raised over $19,000 in cash, 
goods, and services. The Tennessee Titans NFL team sent her $4,000 and 
Outback Steak House provided her with 300 free meals recently for a 
fundraiser where she raised over $5,000. The money pays for cases, 
printing, and shipping costs. So many others are pitching in now . . . 
a box manufacturer in Ohio donates all the boxes and tape; David Smith, 
owner of Dick's Graphics in Cleveland, Tennessee, does all the printing 
at cost; Cleveland News Now.net, a media group in Cleveland, has given 
Kaylee office space with all utilities and Internet access as well as a 
computer to use there for 2 years; Cleveland High School, her sponsor 
in this endeavor, has given Kaylee a checking account at school to 
facilitate the bookkeeping.

Kaylee has set up drop-off locations all over Bradley County 
including the Armed Forces Recruiting Offices, Award Realty, Bradley 
County Courthouse, Circuit Court Clerk's Office, Cleveland City Mayor 
Tom Rowland's Office, Cleveland High School, Dick's Graphics, Bradley 
County Justice Center, and Southern Heritage Bank. As of this March, 
Kaylee has set up 27 other locations across the country to collect more 
CDs and DVDs for Tunes 4 the Troops with over 20 more boxes scheduled 
for delivery in combat zones this month.

Madam Speaker, 15-year-old Kaylee Radzyminski understands that she is 
the future of America and that she can look forward to her future 
because of the sacrifices made for her and all Americans. I'm so proud 
to represent Kaylee who is using her voice to say ''thank you'' to all 
those serving in the Armed Forces of the United States of America!
