# None
## `946e221be055c2fc3f43924784cde12b`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, as the Chair knows, and Members of the 
Senate know, the Senate is unfortunately in gridlock at this moment on 
this important bill because of disagreements as to how to handle 
several of the amendments. The trouble is the essential bill that came 
out of our committee, on which the distinguished occupant of the chair 
is a member, is intact. It does a lot to support first responders at 
the local level, to increase information sharing within our Government 
to avoid the failure to connect the dots that preceded 9/11. It is full 
of very important unfinished business that came from the 9/11 
Commission Report.

Unfortunately, in addition to the 50 amendments pending and the 
refusal of


some Senators to grant consent to go on to hold votes on amendments on 
which we actually have bipartisan agreement, yesterday the minority 
leader came to the floor, and in a unique action--it is not seen around 
here too much--filed a cloture motion on four amendments that were 
pending. That will now keep us, barring some break and agreement 
between our leaders, in this state of suspended animation until 
tomorrow when the vote is scheduled both on the cloture motion filed by 
the Republican leader and the one on the overall bill to bring us to a 
conclusion filed by Senator Reid, the majority leader. What is very 
important is to focus us back on what this is all about and, hopefully, 
to shake us all up to remember that we are responding to, in this 
legislation, 5/1/2/ years after 9/11, the unfinished business of our 
Nation to protect our people from another terrorist attack.

Obviously, we are building on what we did in the 9/11 Commission 
legislation that passed in 2004, but there is more to do; we all agree. 
I am about to read a letter into the Record. I hope this letter will be 
read by every Member of the Senate and bring us back to what this is 
all about and honestly force us to reason together to get over this 
momentary gridlock to do what is important for our country.

The letter is addressed to the Republican leader, the Honorable Mitch 
McConnell. It comes from a number of the leaders of groups established 
by family members of victims of 9/11: Carol Ashley, mother of Janice, 
25, member of Voices Of September 11th; Mary Fetchet, mother of Brad, 
24, founding director and president of Voices of September 11th; 
Beverly Eckert, widow of Sean Rooney, 50, member of Families of 
September 11; and Carie Lemack, daughter of Judy Larocque, 50, 
cofounder and president, Families of September 11. Obviously, the names 
I mentioned, the first names and ages, were among those who were killed 
by the terrorists on September 11. This is a letter from these four 
family members of September 11 to Senator McConnell.

The letter reads as follows:



























March 8, 2007.


 Hon. Mitch McConnell,


 Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Senator McConnell: As family members who lost loved 


 ones on 9/11, we support full implementation of the 9/11 


 Commission recommendations. We are writing out of grave 


 concern that your recent introduction of highly provocative, 


 irrelevant amendments will jeopardize the passage of S. 4. It 


 is inconceivable that anyone in good conscience would 


 consider hindering implementation of the 9/11 Commission 


 recommendations and we strongly disagree with these divisive 


 procedural tactics.



 Just as the Iraq war deserves separate debate, so do each 


 of the amendments you offered. S. 4 should be a clean bill 


 and debate should conclude this week with a straight up and 


 down vote. Each day that passes without implementation of the 


 remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations, the safety and 


 security of our nation is at risk.



 Tactics such as those you are contemplating, aimed at 


 endangering the 9/11 bill, sends a signal to America that 


 partisan politics is alive and well under your leadership. 


 Both parties must work together to pass this critical 


 legislation. We, the undersigned, understand the risk of 


 failure all too well.





 Respectfully,


 Carol Ashley,



 Mother of Janice, 25, Member, VOICES of September 11th.


 Mary Fetchet,



 Mother of Brad, 24, Founding director and President, Voices 


 of September 11th.


 Beverly Eckert,



 Widow of Sean Rooney, 50, member, Families of September 11.


 Carie Lemack,



 Daughter of Judy Larocque, 50, Co-founder and President, 


 Families of September 11.


This letter should be read by every Member of the Senate, not only 
with regard to the cloture motion that was filed yesterday but, 
frankly, also to some of the normal posturing and game playing that is 
going on by different Members, blocking agreement and moving forward on 
the bill unless their particular amendment is agreed to.

It is time for us to wake up, focus on what is really important and 
get this bipartisan bill, S. 4, Improving America's Security Act, 
adopted as soon as possible.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.