# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
## `947b19ecb81b66a5aaf67534a4d695f6`
`Mr. MICA — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. MICA. Understanding that Ms. Johnson will close, I yield myself 
the balance of our time.

Now, Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, we come to the close of the 
debate on overriding the Presidential veto. Today, indeed, has been a 
strange day. That is the interesting thing about politics and 
government in the United States of America. Look at the people who have 
spoken here; a future Governor. We have heard people who have had their 
homes destroyed, their property. We had a strange day here today. My 
side of the aisle ended up voting not to end a particular debate on a 
possible impeachment resolution of the Vice President. Here I am, a 
staunch supporter of the President's effort to maintain fiscal 
responsibility, supporting override of his veto.

But this is a very difficult job. It is a difficult job for me. It is 
a difficult job for the President. I think we like to do everything we 
can. I think it is in the heart of the other side of the aisle, and I 
know in the heart of my fellow Republican Members to do as good a job


as we can in representing people. I know the President has had to make 
some difficult choices coming into office with the events of September 
11 and the terrorist threat that we face and the line drawn in the sand 
by al Qaeda and Iraq. And national security is our primary 
responsibility, but we also have responsibility to our infrastructure.

So we have tried to sort out those priorities in this process. We do 
need an investment in our infrastructure.

The President is right in, probably, his stance. I think we are right 
in our stance. This is an authorization bill. This is not a spending 
bill. It does prioritize for the Congress bills that have been 
carefully considered and projects that have been considered by Members, 
and Members make very sincere requests based on the conditions of their 
particular districts.



It is a great system and it does work. I understand the President's 
commitment to fiscal responsibility, and I think we have tried to act 
in a responsible and good-steward fashion.

In closing, I again want to thank Mr. Oberstar. Unfortunately, he is 
not with us today, on this day that he worked so hard for. I thank Ms. 
Johnson. I want to thank Mr. Baker, our ranking member, and all of 
those who have worked, particularly the staff: Jim Coon, our staff 
director; David Heymsfeld on the Democrat staff side; John Anderson and 
Ryan Seiger; all of the staff, those named and others, who have worked 
to bring this bill together, all with the same intent, to improve the 
lives, the resources and the condition of our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.