---
---

# FIRST 100 DAYS
## `949375d008065953020e48b7d1561c46`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I rise to join our distinguished leader, 
my friend, Senator Reid, and to thank him and our whip, Senator Durbin, 
for their leadership and commitment to this body and to the American 
people.

Last November, the American people asked us to do three things: No. 
1, change course in Iraq; No. 2, make middle-class families' lives a 
little better; and No. 3, oversee an administration that is out of 
touch and has had virtually no oversight for 6 years.

Over the past 100 days, we have made significant progress. Change, 
accountability, and oversight have become more than words; they have 
become our mission. We are demanding the change in Iraq that the 
American people want. The President is ordering us to send him a blank 
check to continue to fund a failed policy, no questions asked. In fact, 
anyone who asks questions, their integrity is often impugned. That is 
because the President thinks the only way to support our troops is to 
rubberstamp what he wants.

We in the Congress are keeping faith with the American people. We 
have passed a bill that funds our troops and at the same time changes 
our mission from policing a civil war to focusing on counterterrorism. 
We have worked on resolutions that offer alternatives to the 
President's head-in-the-sand policy in Iraq. We have held hearings to 
ask


the tough questions that have gone unasked over the past 4 years of the 
war. We have also made our country safer and more secure by 
implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendations.

We have funded homeland security grant programs, improved 
communications for first responders, increased information-sharing 
among our intelligence and law enforcement agencies, and strengthened 
the visa waiver program while boosting civil liberties protections.

In the first 100 days, we also passed an increase in the minimum wage 
that will put real money into the pockets of hard-working individuals 
and families. A minimum wage increase was long overdue. While the costs 
of everyday life continue to rise, wages for the middle class and those 
aspiring to be middle class have not kept pace.

We passed a bill to open the hope of stem cell research for millions 
of families who suffer from debilitating diseases and, in the first 100 
days, Congress has resumed one of its fundamental responsibilities--
oversight of the White House and the administration. From the Justice 
Department to the Defense Department, Democrats are asking tough 
questions that have needed to be asked.

On U.S. attorneys, our investigation--not in a partisan manner but 
bipartisan, both parties seeking the truth--continues, and we will work 
until we receive every document we need and until we have talked to all 
the key figures involved, whether they be in the Justice Department or 
the White House.

Already, we passed legislation that will make sure the Senate has a 
say in the confirmation of U.S. attorneys because we must put the 
finest people in these positions, not simply cronies. We cannot allow 
the deprofessionalization of the U.S. attorneys.

Our oversight also meant that when major failures were disclosed, 
such as the disgraceful treatment of our veterans at Walter Reed and at 
VA centers around the country, we did not let them get swept under the 
rug. We held hearings to get to the bottom of things and it is clear we 
need accountability from those who were in charge and we need to make 
changes in our veterans system so our veterans do not fall through the 
cracks again. There is no higher priority than giving our soldiers the 
medical care they need, and that is why we put over $4 billion in the 
supplemental appropriations bill for veterans health care. When it 
comes to our vets, money is no object. It never should be.

It only has been 100 days, but there are marked changes in the way 
this Congress is being run. We are not rubberstamping the President's 
failed agenda, unlike the previous Congress. We have accomplished a 
great deal and we know there is a lot more to do.

As we move forward, we hope our colleagues across the aisle will join 
us and the vast majority of the American people who are with us in 
forging a new direction for the country, especially when it comes to 
Iraq. Let us use the next 100 days to show we support the troops by 
providing them with the funding they need and the change in mission the 
situation requires.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.