---
---

# REMEMBERING SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY
## `94a62d0cbb957e6264380407539b76f5`
`Mr. REED — 10 September 2009`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise along with my colleague to pay 
tribute to an extraordinary American, probably the greatest Senator to 
serve in this body. I think time will confirm that as we go forward. I 
particularly want to express my deepest sympathy to Vicki and Kara and 
Patrick and Ted Jr. I have had the privilege now of serving with 
Senator Ted Kennedy but also with Congressman Patrick Kennedy, and both 
of these gentlemen have demonstrated zeal for public service and 
commitment and passion to help people that has been emblematic of the 
Kennedy family.

I particularly am proud of Patrick, his words at his father's 
funeral. His continued dedication to the people of Rhode Island is not 
only commendable but inspiring to me and to all of us.

Like so many of my generation, I grew up with the Kennedy family. In 
1960, John Kennedy carried the banner of the Democratic Party as the 
Presidential candidate. He won, but, as we understood then and now, we 
got the whole family, not just President John Kennedy, and it was a 
remarkable family--his brother Robert, the Attorney General and later 
the U.S. Senator from New York, and then, of course, Ted Kennedy.

His contribution to the country and to the world is probably 
unmatchable as we go forward in every area: health care, which was his 
particular passion and on which President Obama spoke so movingly last 
evening about his commitment to moving forward in this Congress and 
finally achieving a dream that has alluded our country for years and 
years and years; his work with his son Patrick on mental health parity, 
which is so important.

On education, I had the privilege of serving with him on the 
Education


Committee and as a Member of the House to collaborate with him on 
education bills, and every major education initiative in this country 
bears his stamp, his input, his inspiration. He worked very closely 
with my predecessor, Senator Claiborne Pell, for the creation of the 
Pell grants and for so many other initiatives in education. He not only 
worked with Senator Pell, they developed a very deep and abiding 
friendship.

One of the impressive things about Ted Kennedy is that the public 
persona was impressive, the private persona was equally impressive and 
extraordinarily endearing. He was someone who had a great sense of 
camaraderie and friendship and good humor.

I can recall being invited to join Senator Kennedy at the Pells' home 
in Newport after Senator Pell retired. Every year, unannounced, without 
any fanfare, Senator Kennedy would sail his boat up into Newport and 
insist on taking Senator Pell out for a cruise, and then they would all 
retire to the Pell home for a delightful supper. I was privileged to be 
there on a couple of occasions.

Toward the end of his life, Senator Pell had difficulty moving 
around, but Senator Kennedy would insist on coming every summer. The 
last outing, we literally had to carry Senator Pell aboard. Senator 
Pell at that time was not communicating as effectively as he was 
previously, but he didn't have to because Senator Kennedy could take 
both parts of the conversation--in fact, he could take multiple parts 
of the conversation. There was never a lost word or a dull moment. It 
was a great opportunity to see an extraordinary statesman but an 
extraordinary gentleman at the same time.

He said famously about his brothers that they lived to see the 
American dream become reality, and he said famously that the dream 
lives on. But he also, more than dreaming, tried to give substance, 
shape, and texture to that dream, effectively to try to ensure that 
opportunity was available to every American family, that they could use 
their talent to build their family and to secure their future and to 
contribute to a better America. That was why he led on health care, 
because without adequate health care, you cannot realize your talents, 
your potential, and you cannot contribute as much to this great 
country. He led on education because it is the great engine that pulls 
this Nation forward and individually gives people an opportunity to 
move up and to help their families move forward.

On civil rights, he was a strong advocate. In fact, I think it is 
fair to say that his first major speech was in favor of the 1964 Civil 
Rights Act because he understood that the talent of America was not 
restricted to any group and that to meet the challenges of this Nation 
and this world, we need the contribution and the participation of every 
American, regardless of race, regardless of gender.

He also was someone who understood that for the working men and women 
of this country, they needed help, they needed to share in the bounty 
of this country. What we have seen over the last decade has been 
growth, up until the crisis of last September, but that growth was not 
shared fairly or evenly, executives getting huge salaries and bonuses 
and working men and women were barely keeping up. In order to have a 
strong, prosperous economy, we need a strong, prosperous middle class. 
His work in terms of education and health care and labor--all of that 
had a purpose not only of helping individuals but, wisely, trying to 
establish an environment for economic growth that we all could share.

He also served on the defense committee with me. And he was very 
perceptive. He had spent many years viewing the world, and his 
understanding of not only the military but the forces, economic and 
cultural, that shape our interaction with other countries was profound 
in its insights. He was, very clearly, opposed to the operation in Iraq 
because he understood that it was a strategic deviation from the real 
task, which continues in Afghanistan, to root out al-Qaida, to 
stabilize the region, the most volatile region in the country. That is 
just one example of his insight into the international arena.

There is a story, and it is attributed to either his brother John or 
to Senator Kennedy, but I think it might be apropos for both. It might 
be slightly apocryphal, but either John or Ted, according to the story, 
was standing outside a factory and a worker came up and said: They tell 
me you have never worked a day in your life.

And Kennedy was taken aback.

Then shortly, the worker said: Don't worry, you haven't missed 
anything.

A family of great privilege, of great opportunity, in fact worked 
every day of their lives, and particularly Ted Kennedy, hard, 
relentlessly to ensure that person coming out of the factory had a 
chance.

Finally, what I sensed when I was at the funeral service, which was 
extraordinarily moving and inspirational, the outpouring of affection 
and regard for Senator Kennedy, not by the dignitaries who assembled 
but by ordinary citizens of Massachusetts and here lining the route to 
Arlington, bespeaks a connection and a validation by the American 
people of an individual who had trials and tribulations but rose above 
it in constant service to the country, in constant service to the 
people who do not have a voice, and constant service to those who need 
a chance to help themselves, to help their family, and to make the 
Nation a better place. It reminded me of words spoken about Franklin 
Delano Roosevelt. His cortege was moving through Washington, DC, and a 
man was visibly shaken and weeping.

A reporter went up to him and said: You know, you are so upset, did 
you know the President?

He said: No, I did not know him, but he knew me.

Ted Kennedy knew us all. He knew our strengths, he knew our 
weaknesses, he knew that this government could make a difference, a 
positive difference in the lives of people. He had shared the same 
difficulties and challenges we face: children stricken with cancer, the 
loss of his brothers and one of his sisters in an airplane crash, the 
human reality.

And because he knew us, he never stopped working for us.

His legacy is extraordinary. It will inspire and sustain us as we go 
forward. His loss, not just to his family, which is considerable, but 
for all of us, is balanced by how much he made us better, more attuned 
to the challenge of serving America and leading the world. We will miss 
him. But our task now is to take up his work, to continue his effort. 
That is the greatest tribute we can pay. Let us begin with this debate 
on health care.

I yield the floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Gillibrand.) The Senator from Kansas.