---
---

# REMEMBERING KEN BACON
## `94b2684d24f41f787bd88eb418fcc91a`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 10 September 2009`

---

 Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I was deeply saddened to learn of 
the death of Ken Bacon on August 15. While Ken had distinguished 
careers in both journalism and public service, it is his tenure as the 
head of Refugees International that I would like to highlight. In that 
capacity, Ken became one of the world's leading advocates for refugees 
and displaced persons. By adapting and challenging his own 
organization, he changed the global discussion on refugees and their 
rights, most recently with his focus on those displaced by climate 
change.

Whether focused on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Afghanistan, 
or Iraq, Ken called upon the international community to take seriously 
the plight of those caught in the midst of conflict--innocent people 
losing their homes, separated from their families, and sometimes forced 
to forfeit their dignity to save their lives. As recently as June, Ken 
testified before a committee of the House of Representatives regarding 
the millions of Pakistanis displaced by fighting in the North West 
Frontier Province. He spoke powerfully:




 This is not merely a question of funding, though the 


 humanitarian assistance and reconstruction efforts will need 


 robust financial commitments. The United States also




 needs to be seen as rising above military objectives and 


 showing genuine concern for the fate of civilians.


Under his watch, the alarm was sounded early and repeatedly on the 
situation in Darfur, and he challenged the global community to act to 
provide protection, aid and even resettlement in some cases for Iraqis 
displaced by war. Drawing on his experience in a refugee camp in the 
Balkans in 1999, Ken humanized masses of people, stressing that while 
displaced families need immediate relief, ''in time [they] will require 
renewed confidence and support to return home in safety and dignity.''

Ken will be missed by all those who had the opportunity to know him 
as well as by the millions who have been, and will continue to be, 
impacted by his work. We pay tribute to him by continuing his work to 
ensure that the basic rights of displaced peoples are protected, that 
their basic needs are met, and that they have the support to ultimately 
return home in safety and dignity.
