# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `94b778268f959c7b674ff6597ad1b67f`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 4 August 2007`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to extend my 
support for the fiscal year 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill. The bill, 
as recommended by Chairman Murtha and Mr. Young, is a clean bill. It is 
a good bill. It is a bipartisan bill.

This bill provides almost $460 billion for our Nation's defense, an 
increase of $39.7 billion over the fiscal year 2007 appropriations. It 
funds the country's priorities during a period where we find ourselves 
developing a force structure for the future and carrying out a Global 
War on Terrorism. The bill provides balance with support for 
development and deployment of near-term capabilities, while investing 
in the future through robust science and technology efforts. In 
particular, the bill:

Continues the establishment of a strong missile defense against the 
threats of our adversaries;

Furthers the revitalization of our human intelligence efforts, a 
critical capability lost in the 90's, while maintaining our technical 
intelligence assets;

Focuses the evolution of tomorrow's blue water navy;

Grows the force structure necessary to meet the operational demands 
and reduce the burdens carried by our military families;

Addresses the health care needs of our soldiers; and,

Does all of these things while providing the necessary resources to 
train and equip today's forces that are currently in harm's way.

I believe, however, that it may be more important to appreciate what 
this bill doesn't do rather than what it actually does.

This bill doesn't bog us down in the useless exercise of academic 
debate on issues better discussed elsewhere.

It doesn't step into the authorizations world with misguided attempts 
to solve issues associated with topics like Iraq or detainee policy.

And, most importantly, it doesn't delay providing our men and women 
in uniform our unqualified support and the resources they need to 
complete their mission successfully. I strongly urge my colleagues to 
preserve this quality of the bill before us today.

Over the years that I have been privileged to serve on the 
Appropriations committee, we have made every effort to leave partisan 
politics at the door. We have teamed up in a bipartisan fashion to do 
what is best for the country. This bill follows that longstanding, 
time-honored tradition.

For us to get our work done--for us to be successful--it must remain 
that way. National security demands that this bill focus on the needs 
of our troops. In its current form, this bill does that.

National security also demands that Congress move swiftly. The House 
is doing its part and I would urge our colleagues in the Senate to join 
us in moving this bill--and others--quickly.

Mr. Chairman, I urge the swift adoption of this Defense 
Appropriations bill.