---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `94c88d06d5ee3db767fc2b1c9c47c4f3`
`Mr. SAXTON — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the ranking member for 
yielding me this time.

I rise in opposition to the resolution that will be voted on Friday. 
And my statement, as clearly as I can, says why.

Mr. Speaker, I recently attended the funeral of an old friend who 
passed away after a wonderful, productive 90 years of life. His family 
and friends gathered at the church to celebrate his life and to 
remember his accomplishments. During World War II, he served as a 
member of the Army Air Corps.

Near the end of the service, two Air Force sergeants unfolded and 
refolded an American flag, and then caringly presented it to my 
friend's widow saying, ''On behalf of the President of the United 
States, the United States Air Force, and a grateful American people, I 
present this flag in honor of your husband's service to his country.''

Mr. Speaker, we survive as a nation today in large part because of 
the selfless service to our country by a great many Americans just like 
my friend. Soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, members of the Coast 
Guard, and members of the foreign service organizations have been 
supported by the American people and by American resources and funding.

Because we are once again involved in a war which threatens our 
country, we find American military personnel are again deployed to many 
parts of the world. Last week, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Peter Pace listed the long list of countries where our forces are 
deployed and are present to help protect us as part of the global war 
on terror. Earlier tonight, I read from that list. There are 70 
countries where Americans serve abroad in support of the global war on 
terror. We don't send them there because we want to send them off to 
some far off part of the world for no good reason. There are threats 
there, threats like al Qaeda, threats like Hezbollah, threats like the 
Quad groups that are funded by Iran.

This is a unique and historic struggle for a number of reasons. Chief 
among them is that our enemies are both state and nonstate actors. They 
are lethal and deadly. Fortunately, the great citizens of this country 
have responded. Americans have volunteered in large numbers to work, 
defend, and fight to protect our way of life. Yet,


today some among us would question whether we are on the right track. 
And I think they are on the wrong track.

As many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle know, I have 
devoted much of my career in Congress to studying and understanding 
this enemy. I must say that I believe I have developed some 
understanding of them, and so I would like to take a few minutes here 
tonight to share some thoughts and some facts about them. You simply 
cannot discuss or understand our situation in Iraq without first 
addressing some of the fundamental and important questions about the 
enemy.

Who is he, or who are they? How do they work to achieve their goals 
on the battlefield? How do they work to achieve their international 
objectives? What is our record against them? And what is at stake?

First of all, who are they? Members of al Qaeda and Hezbollah, the 
Quads forces, and other similar terrorist groups' view of the world is 
based on an extreme ideology, an ideology that is far more extreme than 
most Middle Eastern people want or support. I certainly can't speak for 
the citizens of the Middle East, but it seems clear to me that in the 
opinion of the great majority of citizens and residents of the Middle 
East, both Muslim and non-Muslim, that this is an extreme ideology 
which they feel they should reject. And they do.

The extremists are groups of individuals who do not believe in any 
form of secular government, and will go to seemingly any lengths to 
sabotage others who try to establish secular or representative free 
types of governments. Their tactics run the gamut from sermonizing to 
mistreatment to capture, torture, and death, often by beheading. Their 
leaders are male and assign subservient roles to females. Their 
ideology holds that members of society, both Middle Eastern society and 
otherwise, who do not share their same radical beliefs are assigned to 
a subservient role or simply eliminated. They are members of 
organizations who state openly and repeatedly, ''Death to the non-
believers, death to America.'' They say it every day. This, in short, 
is what they are about.

Perhaps there are some of us here in Congress who don't take these 
people seriously. I do. And I am glad Franklin Roosevelt took Hitler 
and his people seriously as well. It is much the same.

Twenty years ago, while on my second trip to Israel, it was 1987 to 
be exact, I came across an article about Hamas. In 1987, I had never 
heard of them before; they were a brand-new group. So while I was 
there, I asked about them. And I learned much about Hamas, but also 
about other groups that we hear about today, groups like Hezbollah and 
the Islamic Jihad, other groups that existed at the time. And I will 
always remember getting back on that airplane to come home. I thought, 
''Today these people are a huge problem in the Middle East, and I bet 
it won't be long until they are a huge problem in the U.S.'' They are 
today.

The second thing I would like to talk a little bit about is how they 
work to achieve their goals on the battlefield. It is kind of unique, 
certainly unique in history. Their radical ideology breeds an 
unconventional strategy of violence, and they are not to be 
underestimated. This is the method to their violence:

They have recognized that it is difficult or impossible for them to 
achieve their goals through conventional warfare strategies and 
techniques. They have instituted as a substitute a four-stage process 
that replaces traditional warfare, at least traditional warfare as we 
know it in the West. Their strategy is well laid out and planned; it is 
called insurgency. Four steps.

First, they work quietly to gain the support of the population 
through social, charitable, and ideological groups and organizations, 
schools, hospitals, charities. They gain the support of the people.

Second, now that they have developed some strength in organization, 
they begin to develop strength in unconventional warfare capabilities. 
Unconventional warfare capabilities, terrorism, if you will, until 
their ability exists to severely harass their enemy, usually the 
superior legitimate force, the government of whatever country they 
happen to be operating in. This is often the traditional or newly 
created government, just like the one that we are dealing with in Iraq. 
And in this way, they build popular support through unconventional 
warfare successes as well as through charities.

Step three. They develop the ability to reconsider the danger of 
counterattack posed by the stronger legitimate force or government, and 
the ability to fade away temporarily into the population until the 
pressure is off so they can come back and fight again, all the time 
getting stronger, all the time carrying out their work through the 
charities and the schools and the hospitals, and the terrorist acts 
against their enemy.

Finally, the fourth step, they develop it over time, the conventional 
capabilities that are necessary to be used against the stronger 
traditional force with the objective of defeating the legitimate 
government.

If that sounds familiar, it should, because it is exactly what is 
happening in Iraq. This is the traditional four-step insurgency process 
first used in China by Mao in the 1920s, and in Vietnam during the 
1960s and 1970s.

Studying this concept, one can apply it to various theaters around 
the world in the global war on terror and identify various stages in 
various theaters in many places in the world. I believe, for example, 
Hezbollah in Lebanon has worked its way nearly to the fourth stage of 
the insurgency process. Other groups like al Qaeda in Iraq are 
following the same course elsewhere.

The third thing I would like to talk about a little bit is how they 
work to achieve superiority strategically internationally. Let's look 
at the process, the process that fosters the doubt that some citizens 
in the U.S. have today. That is why we are here tonight. Some people 
doubt our capabilities. And this is the type of thinking that brings us 
here tonight. This is the doubt that fuels the desire to disengage, to 
pretend that the danger doesn't exist, to discuss, as we are here today 
or tonight, solutions to limit our success and move toward 
disengagement.

The enemy has demonstrated a strong understanding and some success 
internationally in developing this unconventional strategy of warfare. 
It has evolved something like this:

In the early 19th century, armies met each other on the battlefield, 
frontline to frontline. We all remember looking at those old movies of 
wars in the 19th century. Warriors were trained in techniques aimed at 
defeating their foe's frontlines so as to prevail on the battlefield. 
There was little thought, planning, or training given to reaching 
beyond the frontlines in battle, much less to strike directly at 
central governments. Today, this strategy of warfare is called first-
generation warfare.

Then, during the 20th century, specifically during World War I and 
World War II, two new generations of warfare evolved. During World War 
I, armies were trained to carry out tactics not only against frontlines 
but also against logistical supply lines. The intent was to damage the 
enemy's ability by reaching back beyond the battlefield frontline. This 
is called second-generation warfare.

World War II brought about third-generation warfare by using tactics 
to reach even further behind the lines to attack the industrial 
production facilities of the enemy's central governments.

Finally, the most recent evolution, strategic and tactical execution 
of warfare, designed as fourth-generation warfare. The goal, to destroy 
the determination of the enemy's decisionmakers to continue the fight.



Today's decisionmakers are the citizens of Europe and the rest of the 
West, including, of course, the United States and the decisionmakers of 
the United States Congress. Unconventional tools have been used by al 
Qaeda through fourth-generation warfare and other groups to convince 
the decisionmakers to discontinue the effort. Unconventional tools such 
as the Western media, terrorist acts such as those on 9/11, and 
unconventional warfare such as killing Shiia citizens, Sunni citizens 
and coalition military participants with IEDs and car and truck bombs.

Through the media, every one of these acts which is reported has an 
effect and carries a message intentionally to discourage 
decisionmakers,


and that is precisely the plan. That is precisely why we are having 
this debate tonight.

That brings us to the debate today. Often American decisionmakers 
have been convinced through fourth-generation warfare used by al Qaeda 
and used by other groups, Shiia militias, Sunni insurgents, to convince 
some here to vote to discontinue necessary efforts in one of the 
central theaters of the global war on terror, Iraq, and hence convince 
us not to provide the level of national security so important to the 
citizens and children and future generations of the United States of 
America.

Fourth, let me talk about understanding the consequences of 
withdrawal and our record. Withdrawal under fire is unacceptable and 
history is replete with examples of harmful consequences in doing so. 
Lebanon and Somalia are two examples where we presently face increased 
threats to our national security as a result of previously ill-timed 
withdrawals.

As a result of the U.S. withdrawal in Lebanon, for example, after the 
Marine barracks bombing in 1983, the country, Lebanon, even today 
remains a terrorist hotbed. The withdrawal strengthened Hezbollah. It 
contributed to years of civil war in Lebanon. It diminished U.S. 
prestige in the region and influence throughout much of the world.

The lingering question: Could the U.S. have prevented the rise of 
Hezbollah and the influence of Tehran with sustained engagement in 
Lebanon? We will never know.

In 1993, we withdrew our forces from Somalia after a failed military 
operation in Mogadishu. A decade later an Islamic militia with ties to 
al Qaeda has controlled that country and is responsible for 
destabilizing the entire Horn of Africa. We didn't know it at the time. 
We decided to withdraw. It was a mistake. This radical movement briefly 
shows signs of regaining lost ground in Somalia, even today.

At the very least, Somalia remains a dangerous, ungoverned place, and 
the lingering question, could the United States have prevented the 
spread of radicalism in the Horn of Africa with a sustained engagement 
in Somalia, but we withdrew.

Further evidence of failure to respond to terrorism emboldened al 
Qaeda. In 1993, the World Trade Center was bombed. No response. In 
1996, Khobar Towers were bombed. No response. In 1998, the U.S. Embassy 
bombings in Kenya and Tanzania took place. No response. In 2000, the 
attack on the USS Cole took place. No response.

Result? September 11. We are not alone. The Soviet Union and Israel 
both paid heavy prices for implementing a precipitous withdrawal on two 
separate occasions. The Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989 
and left behind the conditions of anarchy and warlordism, which 
ultimately led to the rise of the Taliban and provided safe haven for 
al Qaeda.

Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon in 2000 resulted in an empowered 
Hezbollah, weakened Lebanese moderates failed to keep peace. The best 
example was Hezbollah's naked aggression this past summer in delivering 
unbelievable attacks against Israel's civilian population. As one 
commentator has put it, this is from Victor Hanson in the National 
Review Online, December 1, 2006, ''By not responding to a decade of 
prior attacks in East Africa, New York, Saudi Arabia and Yemen and 
withdrawing precipitously from Lebanon and Mogadishu, we gave the fatal 
impression that terrorists could strike the U.S. with near impunity.'' 
That is what we are talking about doing now in Iraq.

The lesson here is obvious. We must remain engaged until we complete 
our mission. Finally, what is at stake? It is clear that al Qaeda and 
other groups constitute a serious threat to the citizens of the U.S. 
for this generation and, even more importantly, for the future 
generations. Our enemies have demonstrated significant success in 
carrying out activities to the detriment of the citizens of the U.S.

They have successfully attacked numerous targets overseas, mostly 
with explosives, and have used missiles known as jumbo jets to attack 
New York City and Pennsylvania and at the Pentagon, and they have used 
explosives in terror operations in Afghanistan, and even more 
successfully in Iraq to pit the minority Sunni population against the 
Shiia. They fueled the insurgency and have cost Sunni, Shiia, as well 
as the lives of U.S. soldiers.

Our choices may be difficult. It is not easy to be at war. It is even 
harder to stay at war, but it is clearly proven by history that we must 
not abandon the missions in the war on terror nor in the Iraqi theater. 
We have seen the results of the precipitous withdrawals. It would be 
unconscionable to vote and to do other than to support the 
administration's plan.