# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `94d252a35bb64ae7986ba9245d345631`
`Mr. HOYER — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I first want to recognize Congressman Ike 
Skelton, Chairman of the Armed Services Committee. I know how 
tirelessly he's worked to put this authorization bill together; and 
more than that, I know that no one in this House is a more dedicated 
advocate for our men and women in uniform.

This bill passed out of committee unanimously, and I expect it to 
pass the full House overwhelmingly, as well. That's because it's a bill 
that begins to repair our military while putting the needs of our 
troops first, a bill that responds to the Armed Forces' immense 
challenges while keeping them on the cutting edge. Let me touch on a 
few of its key provisions.

First, it authorizes $70 billion for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and the war on terrorism. No doubt, an overwhelming majority of the 
American public would agree that our mission in Iraq has been marred by 
gross errors of judgment from our highest-ranking civilian officials, 
unending bloodshed, and a chronic lack of political progress. But at 
the same time, 150,000 American troops are still on the ground in the 
midst of that violence, they have done everything our Nation has asked 
of them, and I believe they must have the resources they need to defend 
themselves and try to stabilize Iraq. This bill recognizes that 
reality, and it includes funds to keep our troops safer under fire: 
funds for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles, up-armored Humvees, 
and personal body armor.

Second, this bill acknowledges the tremendous debt we owe our troops 
in this time of war. And the bill's military pay raise--a higher raise 
than the president requested--is a small way of beginning to pay that 
debt back. It also protects their access to health care by keeping down 
medical fees for our troops and retirees.

Third, this bill begins to restore our Nation's military readiness. 
With our forces stretched to the breaking point, Army National Guard 
units have, on average, less than two thirds of their required 
equipment. Army Vice Chief of Staff Richard Cody has testified that the 
Army ''no longer has fully ready combat brigades on standby should a 
threat or conflict occur.'' That is simply too dangerous a risk to 
take. I'm glad that this bill takes some steps to mitigate it, 
authorizing nearly $2 billion for unfunded readiness initiatives, $800 
million for National Guard and Reserve equipment, and larger active 
duty forces: 7,000 new soldiers, 5,000 more Marines, and more than 
1,000 new sailors.

Fourth and finally, this bill's investments in high-tech equipment 
will keep our military the world's most advanced. It includes funding 
for next-generation fighters, like the F/A-22 Raptor and the F-35 Joint 
Strike Fighter; for advanced Navy vessels, from small littoral combat 
ships to new attack submarines; and for the initial deployment of a 
national missile defense system. At the same time, I realize that 
spending on this scale always opens the possibility of waste and abuse; 
that's why I'm grateful that this bill also comes equipped with 
increased congressional oversight of Defense acquisition programs.

Mr. Speaker, never in recent memory has our military been so worn 
down. The road back to readiness will be long and hard--but it can 
begin today. I urge my colleagues to support this vital piece of 
legislation--vital for our troops and our families, and equally vital 
for our Nation's security.