---
---

# RULES OF THE HOUSE
## `94d5967a16152e31b28d8f83f61a419a`
`Mr. SCHIFF â€” 5 January 2007`

---


Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise to speak 
very strongly in favor of these PAYGO rules as a very strong step to 
restoring fiscal responsibility to this House.

Over the last 6 years, the President and the Republican-controlled 
Congress essentially had a policy of borrow and spend. We didn't have 
the discipline to turn down new spending requests; we didn't have the 
discipline to pay for additional tax cuts. We even had, in the most 
ironic of weeks, a situation where we voted to increase the national 
debt by $800 billion in the same week we voted to cut taxes by $800 
billion, and we made it very clear that we were borrowing the money to 
fund these additional tax cuts.



This is not the way to restore fiscal responsibility to this House. 
PAYGO is. The first rule of PAYGO is when you are in a hole, as we are 
in, when you are in a budgetary hole, stop digging. If we want new 
spending, we need to find a way to pay for it. If we want new tax cuts, 
that is great, too, we need to find a way to pay for it. And we cannot 
pay for it by asking these young men and women fighting for us in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and elsewhere to come home and pay for it later and 
have their children pay for it. Because right now all we are doing is 
shifting this obligation onto our children and grandchildren. That has 
got to stop.