---
---

# None
## `94e0af53e0df7b99a51af127761d0715`
`Ms. STABENOW — 10 July 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, before my distinguished colleague from 
Rhode Island leaves, I thank him for the incredible contributions I 
know he made to this legislation that is in front of us. He, too, has 
had a distinguished career serving his country in the armed services as 
well as in the Senate, and we congratulate him for his service.

I also start by congratulating our Michigan senior Senator whom we 
are all so proud of for all of the important work he does, and none is 
more important for Michigan and for the country than serving as 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee.

This National Defense Authorization Act and all that it brings in 
terms of additional tools for our troops, issues that directly relate 
to supporting the troops and their families, the equipment, the new 
technology, the new policies for the future that they need, all of 
these things are incredibly important, and Senator Levin has been the 
leader on these issues for us. We in Michigan are extremely proud of 
all he has done.

I specifically today raise my voice in support of the Webb amendment 
to the National Defense Authorization Act. Tonight in Iraq, 1,644 
members of the Michigan National Guard will bed down after a long day 
of working and fighting. They work in 100-degree weather, sand blowing 
in their faces, facing dangers at every turn, in the harshest physical 
conditions imaginable. For every single one of those men and women, 
there is a family at home in Michigan who will go to bed tonight 
worried and saying a prayer for the safety of their loved one, for the 
safe return of their son, their daughter, father, mother, sister, 
brother.

The true cost of this war cannot be measured in dollars and cents, 
although there is a huge financial cost to what is happening. But the 
true cost is measured by the sacrifices of our troops and their 
families; every single day, day in and day out. The cost is more than 
just the possibility and the reality of physical danger; the cost 
includes the sacrifices that entire families are making, financial 
sacrifices, emotional sacrifices, sacrifices being made because they 
are apart day after day, month after month, and now year after year.

It is not right; it is not fair; it is not safe. We need to change 
this policy. That is what the Webb amendment does. In Michigan, 1,644 
Guard members, 1,644 families, 1,644 missed birthdays, Father's Day, 
Mother's Day, missed high school graduations, baby's first steps, 
anniversaries, family funerals, Christmas, other holidays.

It is also 1,644 missed paychecks. It may be the only paycheck in the 
family--the paycheck that is paying the mortgage, the paycheck that is 
there to help send the kids to college, to pay the car payment, to be 
able to have the standard of living we all want for ourselves and our 
families--sidetracked careers, small businesses and farms put in 
economic danger, 1,644 lives that will never be the same, 1,644 sets of 
missed opportunities, missed moments that can never be replaced.


These members of the Michigan National Guard make up only a fraction 
of the 160,000 men and women in uniform currently serving in Iraq and 
countless others who have served. In too many cases, these men and 
women are back in Iraq for their second, third, and now fourth 
redeployment.

Our fighting men and women are the greatest resource we have. They 
make us proud every single day. But, unfortunately, this Government is 
abusing this resource, these people. America puts its trust in our 
military to defend us. When our sons and daughters join the military, 
they put their trust in us, in the Congress, in the President of the 
United States, to give them the tools and the resources they need and 
to treat them with the respect they have earned. Current administration 
policies on redeployment have violated that trust. These policies have 
let our troops down. They have let their families down.

I am proud to join with my colleague from Virginia in saying: Enough 
is enough--enough is enough--when it comes to abusing our Armed Forces 
by stretching them to the breaking point with redeployment after 
redeployment.

Our armed services have traveled a tough road since we invaded Iraq. 
They have shouldered a heavy burden with pride and confidence and 
honor. We have asked extraordinary things--extraordinary things--from 
them at every turn. And at every turn they have delivered. They have 
made us all proud. They have faced tough situations, made tough 
choices, and have done their duty.

Now we need to do our duty. We need to do what is right for them. It 
is our time to face the tough situations. It is our time to make the 
hard choices. It is our time to make them proud. That is what this 
amendment is about. That is what this bill is about. That is what 
further discussions we will have about how to end this war will be all 
about.

America's soldiers and sailors and airmen and marines are always 
there for us when they are called. The question is, Will we be there 
for them? Will we be there for them today and tomorrow and the next 
day?

This legislation Senator Webb has proposed is something that is 
simply the right thing to do and is a very important piece of 
supporting our troops.

First of all, for our regular forces, the amendment requires that if 
a unit or a member deploys for Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation 
Iraqi Freedom, they will have the same time at home--what is called 
''dwell time''; down time, as I would say; our forces would call it 
dwell time--before being redeployed. So if someone is deployed for 6 
months, they would have dwell time for 6 months, whether that is being 
home with the family, whether that is retraining, whether that is time 
to regroup. If they are deployed for 12 months, they would have 12 
months at home; 15 months, 15 months.

For the National Guard and Reserve, no unit or member will be 
redeployed to Iraq or Afghanistan within 3 years of their previous 
deployment. Now, this is strictly a floor, but it will stabilize Guard 
and Reserve deployment cycles in a much more predictable way. It is 
good for them, it is good for us from a safety standpoint, preparedness 
standpoint, and it certainly is good for the families we are asking to 
make such sacrifices.

We understand this is a dangerous and unpredictable world we live in, 
so this amendment also includes an important provision, a provision 
enabling the President to waive these limitations if he certifies to 
Congress that deployment is necessary in response to a vital national 
security interest of the United States.

Now, why is this down time or dwell time so important? Longer and 
more predictable dwell time is needed for many reasons. Most 
importantly, it allows for members to readjust from combat and spend 
time with their families. It also allows troops the time they need to 
be ready for the next combat mission. We have to remember that


when our people return from their deployments, the majority of their 
time is spent retraining, refurbishing, and reequipping prior to being 
redeployed.

The bottom line is that the Webb amendment will ensure that our men 
and women in uniform have a more predictable deployment schedule, with 
adequate time between tours. We have a responsibility to prevent 
further needless damage to our military, and the Webb amendment does 
that.

Five years ago, I was proud to stand on this floor as one of 23 
Members who believed this war was the wrong choice. For the past 5 
years, I have been proud to cast vote after vote supporting the troops, 
working to ensure they have the resources they need so they can get the 
job done as soon as possible and come home safely.

Today, I stand on the floor and once again say: Enough is enough. The 
American people are saying: Enough is enough.

This administration failed our troops by committing them to this war 
without a clear reason or goal. This administration failed our troops 
by not having a clear mission for our Armed Forces in Iraq. They failed 
our troops by not providing the proper equipment, body armor, or 
logistical support for our forces. They failed our troops with their 
poor planning for the invasion of Iraq and their total lack of planning 
for how to secure the country, despite the best efforts of our brave 
men and women. And they have failed our troops by sending them back 
into harm's way over and over and over again without the proper down 
time between redeployments. History will judge this administration on 
how they have handled this war. History will judge us now on what we do 
for the troops and what we do to end this war.

We need a new strategy for Iraq, a strategy that brings our troops 
home safely and responsibly. We need to treat our troops with respect--
the respect they deserve, they have earned--while they are serving us. 
They put their lives on the line every day for us. The least we can do 
is to make sure they have what they need and they have the time they 
need between combat deployments to be with their families and to 
prepare for the future. And they need a strategy. They are asking us to 
be paying attention to what is going on.

So many of us have been to Iraq and have seen what is happening on 
the front lines. They are in the battle every day. They are focusing 
on their mission, on staying alive, keeping their buddies alive. They 
are counting on us to have their back. They are counting on the 
President to have their back. They are counting on people here getting 
it right, doing the right thing--whether it is making sure they have 
the time they need, which the Webb amendment does, to focus on their 
needs and their families' needs or whether it is to make sure there is 
a strategy that makes sense. That is what we are now debating on this 
floor.


I believe the American people have spoken very loudly and very 
clearly, and it is time for us to listen. It is our job to listen, to 
do the right thing for the troops, to do the right thing for their 
families, to do the right thing for communities and for our country.

When I look around the Senate, I am struck by the fact that we have 
all taken different paths to get here, to this debate right now. It has 
been a long 5 years. Some of us have stood up against this war since 
day one. Many have come to understand the tragedies of this war and the 
failures of this administration and have come at a different time. But 
no matter what path each of us has taken, no matter how we have gotten 
here today, now we have the opportunity to do the right thing. That is 
what this debate is about.

I am so grateful to our Senate leader, Harry Reid, for making sure we 
stay focused on what is clearly the most critical issue in front of us, 
what is happening in the war in Iraq and with our troops and our 
families, and what we need to do to focus on the real threats--the real 
threats--here at home, through his leadership, on the 9/11 Commission 
legislation, as well as focusing on the real threats abroad.

So we have seen leadership bringing us back to this issue, creating 
this opportunity now for us to do the right thing. We need to do the 
courageous thing. The Webb amendment is an opportunity to do the 
courageous thing for our troops. We cannot change the past, but we have 
to change the future, and that means acting now.

I urge all of my colleagues to vote for the Webb amendment for the 
brave men and women who are serving us and counting on us to understand 
what we are expecting of them as they do their duty, with the 
sacrifices they are making, their families are making. They are 
counting on us to do the right thing. They are counting on us to do the 
right thing on the overall strategy on this war.

This legislation, this time, this debate in the next few days is an 
opportunity for us to tell the American people: We hear you. We hear 
you. Enough is enough. Enough is enough. It is time to get this right 
and to bring our men and women home safely and responsibly.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.