# None
## `94f441543ea73bcaa52837cd23442ea3`
`Mr. BUYER â€” 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. BUYER. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3219, as amended, the 
Veterans' Benefits Act of 2010.

This is an omnibus benefit and health bill that contains many 
provisions to help veterans and their families. I am glad that we were 
finally able to work this out with the Senate and, really, pass many of 
the provisions that the House had passed previously in the summer of 
2009.

This bill contains many provisions authored also by my Republican 
colleagues, including:

The Pat Tillman Scholarship Initiative that would require the VA to 
publish a list of college scholarship opportunities for veterans on 
their Web site. This initiative grew from a meeting that my staff had 
with the family of the U.S. Army Ranger and former NFL star, Pat 
Tillman.

After Tillman's death in Afghanistan, his family and friends founded 
the Pat Tillman Foundation. Foundation staff informed my staff that 
they were having problems educating and reaching potential veterans for 
college scholarships they were awarding. This provision will assist 
groups like the Pat Tillman Foundation by informing veterans of 
scholarship opportunities for veterans by placing them on their Web 
site.

We also have the reauthorization of the Homeless Veteran 
Reintegration Program. This program is run by the Department of Labor's 
Veterans Employment and Training Service and provides grants to local 
homeless veteran providers for job-skill training and counseling. This 
program has been lauded as one of the most successful programs in the 
Federal Government in combating homelessness.

I am also pleased that we were able to include an expansion of this 
program to local homeless providers that offer job skill training for 
homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children. This is an 
initiative that I have worked on, and I appreciate the cooperation of 
the majority to make this, in fact, a reality.

I took up a cause with regard to addressing this in the 1990s, when 
the Clinton administration went into a lot of the inner cities and 
wanted to help recruit women with children, as we were doing the 
welfare reform initiatives, and bring them into the military. So they 
joined the military and then they also brought their children. When 
they left the military, some actually returned to welfare and some 
became homeless. The fact that we have women with children in America 
who are homeless, I could not stand that thought.



So I want to thank the majority for working with us in making these 
provisions a reality.

This expansion was originally drafted as H.R. 293 and was part of the 
Nobel Warrior Initiatives that I introduced in January of 2009. 
Unfortunately, this program is needed, as I said, because recent 
reports also by the VA indicate 9 percent of the homeless veteran 
population is women, many of whom have children. These individuals 
obviously require a safe and supportive environment in a private 
setting in which they can regain their footing and acquire skills which 
will lead them to meaningful employment. Once that occurs, they become 
self-enriched, and they also become better mentors to their children.

I hope that this expansion, more homeless veteran providers, will 
expand beyond their normal male-dominated services to assist women as 
well as homeless veterans with children.

Another one of my provisions in H.R. 3219, as amended, would allow 
veterans to purchase additional amounts of Veterans Group Life 
Insurance coverage. Currently the amount of VGLI coverage that a 
veteran can have cannot be changed. Because the level of coverage must 
be made within the first year of a servicemember's discharge, and 
because most of the separating servicemembers are young and single, 
many select levels that become insufficient as they age and have 
families. The provision would allow veterans to purchase up to $400,000 
of VGLI coverage in $25,000 increments every 5 years until age 60. The 
cost of such increases would be offset by premiums, so there would be 
no direct cost to taxpayers.

This provision would also allow veterans to tailor their life 
insurance coverage to fit their current needs and provide greater 
security for their families, and I am glad it was included in the bill.

The final provision I would like to highlight was introduced by the 
ranking member of the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, John 
Boozman. This provision would establish a program to make grants of up 
to $200,000 to encourage the development of new assistive technologies 
for specifically adaptive housing.

The goal of this provision is to encourage the development of 
technology to provide the maximum level of independence to severely 
disabled veterans in their daily living. This includes emerging 
technologies such as voice command operations, integrated computer-
managed functions, and fall prevention devices, and I am pleased this 
measure will also authorize much of the needed funding for this goal.

I am also pleased this bill includes many other improvements for 
veterans and their families, such as creating a new veterans energy-
related employment program; increasing training for veteran employment 
specialists; increasing protections for deployed servicemembers under 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act in regard to cell phone contracts; 
providing numerous VA life insurance program improvements; increasing 
the plot and burial allowance for deceased veterans; authorizing aid 
and attendance benefits for veterans with traumatic brain injury; 
increasing the number of veterans who can begin receiving independent 
living services; expanding eligibility for adaptive auto grants to 
disabled veterans and servicemembers with severe burn injuries; and 
requiring a National Academies study of best treatments for chronic 
multisymptom illness in Persian Gulf veterans.

It authorizes the funding for construction of medical facilities and/
or community outpatient clinics in Long Beach, California; Billings, 
Montana; Boston, Massachusetts; San Francisco, California; and San 
Juan, Puerto Rico. We also have an increase in here with regard to the 
hospital in New Orleans.

Under section 902 of title IX under ''construction,'' the 
modification of authorization for the amount of medical facility 
construction projects previously authorized for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center in New Orleans, Louisiana, increases 
from $625 million to $995 million.

The reason I stopped to highlight that is I am going to exercise some 
disappointment, because we were never able to achieve a joint facility 
and agreement to actually save money by having some jointness here 
between Tulane and LSU and another one of the hospitals. This is a lost 
opportunity. It is really unfortunate. So we are going to be building 
another one of these big state-of-the-art VA hospitals, and it costs 
now about $1 billion.

I reserve the balance of my time.