---
---

# IRAQ
## `94ff5164c537a9d71c3d1dfb602450cb`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 15 November 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I ask the Chair to notify me when I have 
1 minute left on my time, and I thank the Chair; and I, of course, join 
the Republican leader in paying tribute to all the members of our Armed 
Forces, those who continue to serve, those who have completed their 
service, and particularly those whom we have lost and their families.

But the Senate still needs to address Iraq. The American people voted 
a year ago to end the war and we haven't followed through. We need to 
address this issue and to end this misguided war now, before more 
Americans are injured and killed.

The bridge fund passed yesterday by the House isn't good enough. The 
goal for redeployment doesn't cut it. We need a binding deadline, which 
means we need to pass the Feingold-Reid bill.

Despite recent reports of a downturn in violence in Iraq, violence 
remains at unacceptable levels. 2007 has already been declared the 
bloodiest year since the war in Iraq started, and that is with almost 2 
months still to go. Those counts don't bring in the number of Iraqis 
killed. On a relatively quiet day earlier this week, with no reported 
coalition tragedies, at least 33 Iraqis were killed and an equal number 
wounded in violence around the country. We can't say violence is down 
when violence around the country remains so high, when so many 
Americans are being killed and when so many Iraqis are afraid to walk 
the streets.

The underlying reality is we are working with both sides of the Iraqi 
civil war and deepening our dependence on former insurgents and 
militia-infiltrated security forces.

Meanwhile, the situation in the North and South is precarious at 
best. Unrest in these areas threatens the security of our supply lines.

The most recent National Intelligence Estimate largely attributed the 
decline in violence--particularly in Baghdad--to population 
displacements. Baghdad is now predominantly Shi'ite. While the purpose 
of the surge was to foster reconciliation, the reality is that the 
number of Iraqis displaced by the conflict doubled since the start of 
the surge, adding to millions already pushed out of their homes from 
2003 to 2006.

Meanwhile, we have put our troops outside the forward operating bases 
in more dangerous territory for the purpose of policing the Iraqi civil 
war. When they are out in those joint security stations, they have to 
spend half


their time watching their backs because our ''allies'' are former Sunni 
insurgents and Iraqi Security Forces, neither of whom can be trusted.

We continue to supposedly ''train'' Iraqi Security Forces despite the 
fact that we finished training over 300,000 of them over a year ago. Of 
course, we may well be simply contributing to the Iraqi civil war by 
''training'' and arming forces that are infiltrated by militias. We 
can't even account for the guns we have given them.

The ''al Anbar'' strategy--signing cease fires I with insurgents who 
were attacking our guys not too long ago--does not have the support of 
the Iraqi government. It is a poor substitute for meaningful 
reconciliation, which supposedly the surge is going to foster. Now the 
administration is shifting the goal posts and talking about ''bottom-
up'' reconciliation.

We have seen the levels of violence in Iraq shift before--this is 
nothing new. If my colleagues think the surge is working and violence 
is down--let's get out while the getting is good. Without meaningful 
reconciliation, the violence will spike up again, that's for sure. So 
let's not wait around for that to happen.

Many U.S. troops currently in Iraq are now in their second or third 
tours of duty. Approximately 95 percent of the Army National Guard's 
combat battalions and special operations units have been mobilized 
since 9/11.

Mr. President, 1.4 million Americans have served in Iraq, and over 
400,000 have served multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nearly 
4,000 have been killed in Iraq and over 27,000 have been wounded.

The Army cannot maintain its current pace of operations in Iraq 
without seriously damaging the military. Young officers are leaving the 
service at an alarming rate.

Readiness levels for the Army are at lows not seen since Vietnam. 
Every active Army brigade currently not deployed is unprepared to 
perform its wartime mission.

More than two-thirds of active duty Army brigades are unready for 
missions because of manpower and equipment shortages--most of which can 
be attributed to Iraq.

There are insufficient Reserves to respond to additional conflicts or 
crises around the world, of which there are, of course, potentially 
many.

This failure to prioritize correctly has left vital missions 
unattended. Natural disaster response, U.S. border security, and 
international efforts to combat al Qaida are all suffering due to the 
strain on military forces caused by poor strategy and failed leadership 
in Iraq.

Thousands of our troops have returned home with invisible wounds; 
such as PTSD and TBI--traumatic brain injury, which will have a long-
term impact on veterans and their families. These invisible wounds are 
not counted in the casualty numbers, but we will be struggling with 
them for a generation or more.

The cost of the War? America has been in Iraq longer than it was in 
World War II.

Secretary Rumsfeld said the war would cost less than $50 billion. The 
administration has now requested over $600 billion for the war.

If we don't change course in Iraq, the cost of the war is likely to 
balloon to $3.5 trillion.

If we keep a ''Korea-like presence'' in Iraq, as Secretary Gates has 
predicted, this means we will have 55,000 troops in Iraq by 2013--a 
level that remains constant until 2017. And while this drop would 
certainly be cheaper, it would still mean an additional $690 billion. 
CBO has estimated that, just paying the interest on the money we have 
borrowed to pay for the war to date, will cost another $415 billion.

We are currently spending nearly $9 billion a month in Iraq. In 3 
months in Iraq, we spend nearly the same amount that we spend on 
foreign relations and aid worldwide in 1 year.

The fiscal year total spending of the war--$150 billion--is greater 
than the combination of spending on our national transportation 
infrastructure, health research, customs and border protection, higher 
education assistance, environmental protection, Head Start, and the 
CHIP program. Our national programs are being neglected because of this 
disastrous war and future generations will bear the brunt of our 
misguided policy.

The costs are only rising. We spent twice as much this year in Iraq 
as we did in 2004.

The President continues to mislead the country about al-Qaida and 
Iraq. Contrary to the President's assertions, Pakistan and Afghanistan, 
not Iraq, are the key theater in this global conflict. While the 
administration has focused on Iraq, al-Qaida has reconstituted itself 
along the Afghanistan- Pakistan border.

The President also presents a false choice between fighting al-Qaida 
in Iraq and doing nothing. Every single redeployment proposal includes 
the option of targeted operations against al-Qaida within Iraq. The 
difference is that the President seems to think that 160,000 or 180,000 
troops, sent to Iraq for an entirely different purpose, need to stay.

We cannot ignore the rest of the world to focus solely on Iraq. Al-
Qaida is and will continue to be a global terrorist organization with 
dangerous affiliates around the world. Contrary to what the 
administration has implied, al-Qaida is not abandoning its efforts to 
fight us globally so that it can fight us in Iraq. That is absurd.

We need a robust military presence and effective reconstruction 
program in Afghanistan. We need to build strong partnerships where AQ 
and its affiliates are operating--across North Africa, in Southeast 
Asia, and along the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. And we 
need to address the root causes of the terrorist threat, not just rely 
on military power to get the job done.

For example, right now, Iran's strategic position continues to 
improve and the situation on the Turkish border is explosive. We are 
bogged down in Iraq and exposed to attack from all sides, and our 
ability to promote regional stability from a position of strength is 
undermined.

Maintaining a huge, open-ended presence is igniting tensions in the 
region, and playing into the hands of the Iranian regime. Iran is able 
to expand their influence while we take the hits, in terms of 
casualties and finances. Our open-ended presence in Iraq is a blessing 
for Iran because it provides them with a buffer and mitigates any 
potential conflict between those two countries. It also removes any 
incentive for Iran to engage in a constructive manner.

Maintaining a significant U.S. troop presence in Iraq is undermining 
our ability to deter Iran as it increases its influence in Iraq, 
becomes bolder in its nuclear aspirations, and continues to support 
Hezbollah.

The American people want us out of Iraq. The administration's policy 
is clearly untenable. The American people know that, which is why they 
voted the way they did in November. More than 60 percent of Americans 
are in favor of a phased withdrawal. They do not want to pass this 
problem off to another President, and another Congress. And they sure 
don't want another American servicemember to die, or lose a limb, while 
elected representatives put their own political comfort over the wishes 
of their constituents.


The Feingold-Reid amendment requires the President to safely redeploy 
U.S. troops from Iraq by June 30, 2008. At that point, funding for 
military operations in Iraq is terminated, with narrow exceptions for 
targeted operations against al-Qaida and its affiliates; providing 
security for U.S. Government personnel and infrastructure; and training 
Iraqis.

We have narrowed the training exception to prevent training of Iraqi 
Security Forces--ISF--who took part in sectarian violence or attacks 
against U.S. troops. The exception also prohibits U.S. troops training 
Iraqis from being embedded with or taking part in combat operations 
with the ISF. These changes are intended to address concerns about the 
performance of the ISF--which has been infiltrated by Shia militias and 
accused of attacks upon U.S. troops--and to make sure that ''training'' 
is not used as a loophole to allow substantial numbers of U.S. troops 
to remain in Iraq for combat purposes.

The other two exceptions are appropriately narrow: the 
counterterrorism exception applies to operations against al-Qaida and 
affiliated international terrorist organizations, while force 
protection applies to protecting U.S.


Government personnel and infrastructure.

The time has come for the Senate to seriously engage on this issue. 
The costs and the tragedy of this war are plainly unacceptable and 
contrary to the will of the American people.











 Unanimous-Consent Request--S. 1077


Mr. President, I now ask unanimous consent that S. 1077 be discharged 
from the Foreign Relations Committee, be placed on the calendar, and at 
a time to be determined by the majority leader following consultation 
with the Republican leader, the Senate may proceed to consideration of 
S. 1077 and it be considered under the following limitations: that the 
only amendment in order be a Feingold-Reid amendment which is the text 
of the amendment offered on the DOD authorization measure; that there 
be a total time limitation of 2 hours of debate on the bill and the 
amendment, with the time divided and controlled in the usual form, and 
upon the use of that time the Senate proceed to vote in relation to the 
amendment; that upon disposition of the amendment, the bill, as 
amended, if amended, be read a third time and the Senate then proceed 
to vote on passage of the bill, without further intervening action or 
debate.