---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9501c1e2c1128facfd551529e9d44263`
`Mr. HATCH — 14 December 2010`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize and pay tribute 
to SFC James E. Thode, who gave the ultimate sacrifice for his country. 
On December 2, 2010, he died of wounds suffered after an improvised 
explosive device detonated on a roadside in Sabari District, Khowst 
Province, Afghanistan. He was 45 years old.

Sergeant First Class Thode served with the Utah National Guard, 118th 
Engineer (Sapper) Company, 1457th Engineer Battalion, 204th Maneuver 
Enhancement Brigade, in Salt Lake City. His unit's mission was vitally 
important, as it provided route-clearance support to coalition forces. 
Identifying and clearing IEDs was part of their dangerous job.

Sergeant First Class Thode called Farmington, NM, his home and grew 
up in Tucson, AZ. However, boundaries are blurred in the Four Corners 
area and soldiers are drawn from the neighboring states. I am proud, 
and, indeed, Utah is proud to call Sergeant Thode one of our own. He 
was one of our finest.

This was to be Sergeant First Class Thode's third deployment 
overseas. In 1991, he served during the first gulf war, although he did 
not see combat. He never shied away from duty.

Like so many of the fine men and women serving in the Armed Forces 
today, Thode felt it was his duty to serve. He exemplified this 
attitude by not only serving his country abroad, but by serving on the 
Farmington Police Department for the last 14 years. In that time he 
worked as a training officer, a member of the SWAT team. He was well-
respected. He was a great friend. He was a great leader. He had the 
qualities we would want in a police officer and protector of a 
community.

His decision to serve our country came at an early age. He was 
inspired by his uncle who served in the military. As a young boy, he 
learned how to shoot a BB gun and later his father took him to the 
shooting range and taught him how to handle a rifle. He joined the 
military in 1984 and had served long enough to retire from military 
service by the time he went on his third deployment, this time to 
Afghanistan. His father told him he could have retired, but he insisted 
that the young men and women he served with needed someone to take them 
to war and help keep things together.

He was a father figure to many of his fellow soldiers. He was the 
glue that held people together. A warrior that led by example.

My thoughts and prayers go to his loving family. He leaves behind his 
devoted wife Carlotta; their 18-year-old daughter Ashley; their 8-year-
old son Tommy; his mother Evelyn; father Ernest; and other family and 
friends. With his ultimate sacrifice, they are sacrificing, too. God 
bless them.