---
---

# FILIPINO VETERANS EQUITY ACT OF 2008
## `9503d7497910b129c82d97ee5f26540d`
`Mr. STEARNS — 22 September 2008`

---


Mr. STEARNS. Madam Speaker, I request such time as I may consume.

Let me start out in this discussion of this bill, H.R. 6897, that Mr. 
Filner from San Diego has done a very exceptional job in his assiduous 
efforts to pass this bill. I admire him for his efforts.

I don't all together agree with him, and I will point to that in my 
speech, but this in no way implies that his efforts aren't appreciated 
for the Filipinos who fought for us in World War II and for those 
Filipinos who receive money who are not U.S. citizens because of this 
bill.

I would have to point out that he has said there are no benefits 
provided for the Filipino veterans. I have here an Overview of Filipino 
Veterans' Benefits, a report that indicates that, in fact, in 1946, 
$200 million was authorized to give them benefits. So his statement is 
not entirely accurate.

We do have a report of Congress that shows money was authorized, $200 
million in 1946 was worth a lot of money. I think we should put that in 
perspective before we start discussing this further.

As pointed out, it is a lump sum payment to Filipino veterans of 
World War II subject to appropriations. Now, think about that for a 
second. There is no money in here authorized for this. This is subject 
to appropriation. They have to find the money. We don't know where this 
money, roughly $200 million, is going to come from.

I don't agree with the notion frequently put forth that there was a 
breach of promise put forth to the Filipino veterans by the United 
States Government, and that we must make some sort of belated payments 
to them for their service during World War II. The Congressional 
Research Service, as I pointed out, has provided an excellent objective 
and nonpartisan report on the Filipino veterans benefits from World War 
II.

It does not, as I pointed out, support the breach of promise theory 
that we often hear from my distinguished chairman and also, from a lot 
of Filipino veterans groups. Both the United States and the Philippine 
Governments are already providing benefits to many Filipino World War 
II veterans, so they are already getting benefits.

This bill is significantly different from the legislation that was 
previously marked up last July, H.R. 760, the Filipino Veterans Equity 
Act of 2007, and it also differs from the original language of the 
Senate-passed version of S. 1315. Both bills utilize funding from 
overturning the court decision in Hartness v. Nicholson to, among other 
things, pay pension benefits to Filipino veterans of World War II.

At least in that case they did attempt to find some money. So they 
had a legitimate way to get money to pay for this. That is not true in 
this bill today. It has taken out discretionary spending left to the 
appropriators, and the appropriators don't know where they are going to 
get the money either.

It's apparent from the legislation before us that my distinguished 
chairman took pause before moving forward. He listened, and this is a 
credit to him, he listened to the veterans service organizations who 
opposed the bill, his original bill. He listened to his colleagues on 
the Veterans' Affairs Committee, and then he carefully drafted the bill 
that we have before us today.

It does not take money away from any other veterans group to pay for 
these funds, and it makes the payment of the lump sum subject to 
appropriation. This bill would authorize a payment of $15,000 for World 
War II Filipino veterans who are United States citizens and $9,000 for 
those who are not citizens of the United States and live in the 
Philippines.

I appreciate the committee accepting our ranking member, Mr. Buyer's 
amendment to the bill, which provides that payment of the lump-sum 
benefit would be final and constitute a complete release of any claim 
against the United States by those recipients that are covered under 
this legislation. However, World War II Filipino veterans would 
continue to receive benefits already awarded.

During discussions of the previously mentioned Filipino veterans 
equity bills, which utilized offsets from overturning the Hartness 
decision, Ranking Member Buyer had staff contact the various veterans 
organizations regarding the use of these funds. The American Legion, 
AMVETS, and NAUS, strongly opposed using the Hartness funds to provide 
for the Filipino veterans. That was then, that was back then.

While their positions vary regarding overturning the Hartness 
decision, there are other organizations such as the Paralyzed Veterans 
of America, the Military Officers Association of America and the Gold 
Star Wives of America, believe that there are many higher priorities 
than additional benefits for Filipino veterans of World War II.

Why don't we talk about some of those higher priorities, because this 
is what the veterans service organizations feel strongly about. If you 
are going to give this money to the Filipinos, what about the higher 
priorities of these other people? How about improvements to the 
Specially Adaptive Housing Grant, the PVA; improvement to the Specially 
Adaptive Automobile Grant, PVA, increases to the mileage reimbursement 
rate, PVA and MOAA; increases in supplemental insurance coverage for 
disabled veterans, MOAA; increases to the DIC rate for American 
surviving spouses, GSW; increases to the maximum death benefit pension 
for the surviving widow of a veteran not entitled to a VA compensation, 
GSW.

Why, I would think, would we give $200 million for Filipino veterans 
who are not even U.S. citizens while not providing a priority for 
these? Obviously, there are many, many higher priorities that we as a 
Nation at war should be meeting. We should be devoting our available 
resources to meeting the needs of our veterans and the returning 
warriors that are coming back from Afghanistan and from Iraq.

Now, during last Wednesday's markup session, Mr. Buyer, the ranking 
Republican member of the full committee offered, and then he had to 
withdraw, a second amendment to this bill, which would have authorized 
$198 million to fund the VA veterans small business loan program that 
was terminated in 1986. Think of that, we could have, instead of this 
bill, we could have had the VA veterans small business loan program 
reenacted for all these veterans coming back from Afghanistan and from 
Iraq. Surely they could use this to help create jobs and start their 
own companies and provide for jobs for more Americans.

The program authorized VA to either guarantee a loan made by a vendor 
or make a loan up to $200,000 for a veteran-owned small business. 
Sounds like a good idea to me. The original program gave preference to 
disabled veterans, and Mr. Buyer added a preference for members of the 
National Guard and Reserves, who have been ordered to active duty in 
support of the global war on terror.

Each of us on this committee has veteran constituents who are also


small business owners, and many of these veterans are members of the 
Guard or Reserves. Unfortunately, one of the prices many of these 
dedicated citizen soldiers have paid is being forced to close their 
small businesses, or at least seeing their small businesses decline 
significantly while they are serving on active duty.

Obviously this program for small business loans that was terminated 
in 1986 was good and could have been done at a higher priority than the 
bill we have this afternoon. So, simply said, by authorizing a loan 
program for veteran-owned small businesses, we would have been 
responding to that unintended consequence of their willingness to serve 
their Nation.

While the amendment was withdrawn due to procedural issues, it 
received such strong interest among the committee members that Mr. 
Buyer plans to introduce the amendment as a bill, just simply, later 
this week. We will all have a chance to vote on it, and I encourage any 
interested Member to contact either the VA Committee, Republican staff, 
or to cosponsor Mr. Buyer's bill. We should be looking for ways to 
better assist our Nation's veterans, obviously, and I know you and 
everybody in this chamber agrees with that, to help returning warriors, 
instead of settling these questionable claims.

I urge my colleagues, when they consider to vote for this bill, to 
consider the priorities of all the veterans. I, for one, in good 
conscience, have trouble supporting the passage of this bill, 
particularly in light of what we are seeing here this week, with the 
Treasury asking to raise the debt ceiling, asking for $700 billion for 
Wall Street.

There are so many higher priorities for our Nation's veterans and for 
this bill. As I pointed out, we don't know where the funding for this 
bill is going to come from. With a price tag of almost 200 million, 
it's all subject to appropriations.

I conclude by saying while Filipinos of U.S. citizenship living in 
the United States will receive $15,000, we are giving $9,000 to 
Filipino veterans who are not citizens of the United States. If you 
take $9,000 based upon the cost of living in the Philippines versus 
what it is here in the United States, the Filipino veterans at $9,000 
are getting a huge sum of money.

I can't, in good conscience say that this bill has a high priority 
than the ones we are talking about, and so I urge my colleague 
carefully look at this and to take into account the Overview of the 
Filipino Veterans Benefits report that shows they were authorized money 
of $200 million in 1946. Indeed, I think if you look at the priorities, 
you will see there are other priorities we should consider first.

With that, I reserve the balance of my time.