---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `95047993e59d68f0f8533687773aa84a`
`Mr. WOLF — 20 June 2007`

---


Mr. WOLF. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me start by commending the chairwoman on putting together a 
thoughtful bill, her first as the chairwoman of this new and important 
subcommittee. I must also recognize the chairwoman's continuation of 
this subcommittee's bipartisan tradition, as well as stating how much I 
appreciate the chairwoman's willingness to listen to our concerns and 
accommodate them as much as possible.

Overall, I think it is a very good bill, but I do have some concerns.

First and foremost, I believe this bill sends a terrible message to 
the State Department's officers and foreign service nationals and our 
military fighting in Iraq. The report accompanying the bill clearly 
states that there is no funding provided for Iraq. I intend to offer an 
amendment to restore $158 million of the $391 million that the 
President requested. I believe that not providing the requested funding 
for counterterrorism and de-mining activities is shortsighted and 
potentially dangerous. This program has trained more than 1,000 Iraqis 
in explosive detection and removal, therefore helping to protect the 
lives of our military and also improving public safety to reduce 
insurgent access to deadly munitions.

No funds are provided to develop effective civilian law enforcement 
and anti-terrorism programs in Iraq, specifically to focus on 
strengthening terrorist financing and money laundering.

No funds are provided to continue English language training and 
professional training for military officers in the United States. This 
training focuses on international human rights, fostering respect for 
civilian control of the military and the rule of law. Such funding is 
crucial if public statements by Members about wanting Iraqis to be able 
to defend themselves are, in fact, accurate and not purely rhetorical.

Also, this fits into the recommendations made by the Iraq Study 
Group, and when the resolution came up a while back that the other side 
had, I think 220-some Members said they supported the Iraq Study Group.

Well, no funding is provided to help Iraq manage their national 
budget, a crucial step towards Iraq self-reliance. No funding is 
included to enable Iraq to stimulate local economies to counter the 
impact of the insurgents. Assistance was requested and denied that 
would help Iraq create jobs in the agriculture sector and create food 
production, thereby stimulating Iraq's second largest economic sector 
after the oil area. These funds would directly weaken the insurgent 
base in rural areas, which we all on both sides want to do.

Finally, no funding is included to help national reconciliation, 
political reform, and fair provincial elections in 2008 and fair 
national elections in 2009. Additional funding was requested to develop 
the Iraqi criminal justice system. These necessary funds would allow 
the Iraqi government to identify, bring to justice, and incarcerate 
insurgents and terrorists who are trying to destabilize the country. 
So, hopefully, we can adopt that amendment.

The second issue of concern for me is there are new provisions 
regarding funding for family planning programs overseas. The President 
clearly stated in a May 3, 2007, letter to the Speaker of the House 
that he would veto any legislation that weakens current Federal 
policies and laws on abortion. As a result of these language changes 
alone, I believe the bill will now be vetoed, which is unfortunate 
because there are so many good things in the bill.

Thirdly, the bill does not include any funding to support the 
recommendations by Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba. The Castro 
regime is the only nondemocratically elected government in the Western 
Hemisphere. So now is the time to demonstrate a commitment to the 
future of freedom for Cuba and to fund the programs that will 
facilitate peaceful democratic transition. And, again, this has nothing 
to do with the whole trade issue that this place talks about or the 
whole travel issue. This is to help the democratic movement in Cuba.

In conclusion, I believe this bill has the potential to do a lot of 
good, and I want to say that this bill will help save a lot of lives 
not only here but around the world. This is the work of the Lord. And I 
know Members are going to come down and are going to be against the 
bill. And I hope that we can change some of these things to prevent a 
veto, but this bill, eventually when it passes, assuming it will be 
vetoed, is really to feed the poor, the hungry, the naked, the sick. 
Almost a better title would be a Matthew 25 bill. So it has the 
potential to do a lot of good, and I hope to work with Chairwoman Lowey 
to ensure the State Department has what it needs to do these things, 
the war on terror, to provide humanitarian assistance to the most 
needy, and to improve human rights around the world.

And Members on our side are offering amendments with regard to 
cutting. This is actually under the allocation with regard to the 
administration.

I look forward to working with the chairwoman to resolve the 
differences.

I also want to thank Nisha Desai, Craig Higgins, Steve Markes, Michel 
Sumilas, Celia, Rob, and also Christine, who were too embarrassed to 
put their names down. I wanted to put them down too. And I also want to 
thank the full committee staff on both sides, who have been very 
helpful.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.