# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP
## `9506bfe03ec4d72b975e912bb0a93736`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 12 May 2009`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. If you look at what all these investments are, 
infrastructure and science, $120 billion. Now I think you hit the nail 
on the head. We are at $1 trillion that we have spent in Iraq. One 
trillion. Now, I don't know about how anyone else feels, and I don't 
think I'm actually going out on a limb here to say we have a lot of 
projects in our communities that could use a little bit of that money.

Sewer overflow. My goodness gracious, these cities that are dealing 
with combined sewer overflow issues is in the hundreds of millions of 
dollars. Sewer lines, septic tanks that need to be cleaned up and sewer 
lines put in, water lines, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, health 
care for our citizens, these are basic investments that our country 
needs to be making. And this stimulus package is a step in that 
direction.

And when you look at it, I mentioned the broadband, if you look at 
$27.5 billion for highway construction, $16.5 billion to modernize 
Federal and public infrastructure to save energy costs in the long run, 
$19 billion for clean water, flood control, environmental restoration 
investments, $17.7 billion


for transit and rail to reduce traffic congestion and gas consumption, 
these are all programs and investments to help reduce our dependency on 
foreign oil so we are not in this morass that we get involved in and 
all these little political situations that we get in because we have to 
pull oil out of some of these countries to run our country.

Thirty billion dollars to transform the Nation's energy transmission 
distribution and production systems so we can have a smart grid. Those 
are good investments. Five billion dollars to weatherize modest income 
homes. These are investments that we need to make.

Lower health care costs, education, helping workers. Twenty billion 
dollars to increase the food stamp benefit by over 13 percent. Look at 
what the Democrats have done even when we got in and had to fight to 
get a couple of these things done.

We raised the minimum wage for the first time since 1997 when 
Democrats got in and basically had to jam it down the White House's 
throat in order to get it signed into law. The largest increase in 
veterans' spending in the 77-year history of the VA, and we had a lot 
of people running around this town in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, 
who is more patriotic? And it was all red, white and blue when the 
lights were on and cutting the veterans' health care budget and 
benefits in the back room.

And when we got in, the largest increase in the 77-year history of 
the VA. And you see it again with our budget this year. You saw it in 
the 2009 budget that President Obama signed. You are going to see it 
again now. You saw it in the supplemental, which we can go over some of 
the investments that were made. But this is a commitment to our 
Nation's veterans who served this country so well. Again, an investment 
in our people. You serve our country, you will be rewarded. Four years 
of free education if you served in Iraq and Afghanistan. Benefits have 
increased. We reduced and got rid of a lot of the fees and assessments 
that were put on by the other side. These are steps.

Have we done enough? Not even close. I'm not here to say, and I don't 
think anyone else is, to say that we have been in for however long, 
110, 112, 114 days, whatever, and things are great now. They are not.

And before you came in, I stated the economic distress of the 17th 
Congressional District, but these are steps in the right direction. 
These are steps that are lifting up people that need help. This is not 
a handout, but a little bit of help along the way to where they can get 
themselves back on their feet and this economy can get moving again, 
and then these green jobs, the investments in science, investments in 
infrastructure, rail and all of these things we are talking about, 
Rolls Royce, which they are doing in your district which is phenomenal, 
these are the kinds of things that will grow. But they take some seed 
corn. They take a little water, a little fertilizer, and the government 
now, I think, is responsible for doing a lot of that.



So we are making these investments. We will continue to make these 
investments, and we will continue to, I think, strategically invest the 
taxpayers' money prudently, judiciously invest the money.