---
---

# HOMES FOR HEROES ACT OF 2007
## `951c3e6f79b3af4166f2ebf8f7664bde`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 9 July 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 3329, the ''Homes for Heroes Act.'' I urge my colleagues to 
support this legislation and to support our troops in their efforts to 
obtain homes. I thank my friend Congressman Al Green for this 
thoughtful legislation

This important piece of legislation amends the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development Act to establish in the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD) a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs to: 
(1) ensure veteran access to HUD housing and homeless assistance 
programs; (2) coordinate all HUD programs and activities relating to 
veterans; and (3) serve as a HUD liaison with the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.

This legislation, directs the HUD Secretary to provide assistance to 
private nonprofit organizations and consumer cooperatives to expand the 
supply of supportive housing for very low-income veteran families (that 
is, families with incomes not exceeding 50 percent of the area median 
income ).

H.R. 3326, amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to: (1) make 
housing rental vouchers available to homeless veterans; and (2) include 
veterans in public housing planning.

Excludes veterans' benefits from income for purposes of HUD assisted 
housing rental determinations.

This legislation requires the Secretary to: (1) make grants to 
nonprofit entities for technical assistance in sponsoring HUD housing 
projects for veterans; and (2) report annually to specified 
congressional committees and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on HUD 
activities relating to veterans.

I firmly believe that we should celebrate our veterans, and I remain 
committed, as a Member of Congress, to ensuring that we respect our 
veterans. Veterans have kept their promise to serve our nation; they 
have willingly risked their lives to protect the country we all love. 
We must now ensure that we keep our promises to our veterans.

Currently, there are 25 million veterans in the United States. There 
are more than 1,633,000 veterans living in Texas and more than 32,000 
veterans living in my Congressional district alone. I hope we will all 
take the time to show appreciation to those who have answered the call 
to duty. As the great British leader Winston Churchill famously stated, 
''Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to 
so few.''

With the approval of legislation on June 1, 1954, November 11th 
became a day to honor American veterans of all wars. Later that same 
year, on October 8th, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, himself a 
decorated veteran of war, issued the first ''Veterans Day 
Proclamation'' which stated in part: ''In order to insure proper and 
widespread observance of this anniversary, all veterans, all veterans' 
organizations, and the entire citizenry will wish to join hands in the 
common purpose.'' It was with that endearing spirit that America 
celebrated the first Veterans Day.

We must always remember the debt that we owe our fallen veterans that 
have paid the ultimate sacrifice. From the four surviving World War I 
veterans known to be living in the United States, to the over 300,000 
veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom we 
expect to see by the end of 2008. Our gratitude must continue to be 
unwavering to our soldiers and veterans.

In the words of President John F. Kennedy, ''As we express our 
gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to 
utter words, but to live by them.'' It is not simply enough to sing the 
praises of our nation's great veterans; I firmly believe that we must 
demonstrate by our actions how proud we are of our American heroes.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. I believe 
it is necessary for the nation to act now so that we all can pay 
respect, tribute, and homage to the lives of the armed services 
veterans who have fought to keep America free and have fought to make 
sure that all people and nations partake in the universal freedoms that 
we find so important in this country. These individuals have given so 
much and have paid us the ultimate sacrifice: the sacrifice of their 
lives. The least that we can do, is ensure that these veterans are able 
to secure homes when they return home from battle. I urge my colleagues 
to support this bill.