---
---

# CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES ACT OF 2009
## `953ba167c94024f93be93eb17e2f83c5`
`Mr. KERRY — 19 November 2009`

---


Mr. KERRY. Madam President, I speak in opposition to amendment No. 
2785 to the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act. This 
amendment, offered by Senator Coburn, would cut funding for 
international organizations, including U.S contributions to NATO and 
the United Nations. This would gravely undermine our vital national 
security interests at a critical time. We all strongly support 
strengthening medical care for our Nation's veterans, but Senator 
Coburn's amendment sets up a completely artificial choice between 
protecting the health of America's veterans and ensuring that our 
Nation meets its national security objectives and international 
obligations.

To be clear, this amendment would cut funding from the contributions 
to international organizations account, which provides the assessed 
dues to the U.N. and NATO, APEC, OAS, OECD, and the OPCW, as well as 
take funding from the contributions to international peacekeeping 
operations account. That is why I will oppose this amendment, for 
several critical reasons:

First, we obviously need as much support as we can get from our NATO 
allies for our joint mission in Afghanistan. We cannot, and should not, 
carry this burden alone and how can we ask NATO to do more while we are 
at the same time cutting our NATO contributions? This would seriously 
undermine our standing with NATO and with our NATO allies at a time 
when we can least afford it. We simply cannot allow that to happen.

Several other international organizations are also threatened by this 
amendment. Funding for the Organization of American States, which 
addresses threats to hemispheric security, from terrorism to narcotics, 
would be cut. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development, which promotes economic growth in 30 member states and 
more than 70 other countries, would lose funding. The Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation, which promotes trade, security, and economic 
growth throughout the Asia-Pacific region, and which the United States 
will host in 2011, would also be cut. The Organization for the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which ensures worldwide implementation 
of the Chemical Weapons Convention, as well as the World Trade 
Organization, which provides the stable framework for international 
trade that is so critical to the United States, would suffer funding 
cuts.

Second, our United Nations contributions fund a wide range of U.N. 
activities in support of key United States foreign policy priorities. 
U.N. organizations are monitoring nuclear programs in North Korea and 
Iran. We need the best information possible about the nuclear programs 
in Iran and North Korea, and the last thing we need to be doing is 
cutting funding for the very organization that is doing on the ground 
monitoring. The U.N. is also providing vital assistance for the 
upcoming elections in Iraq, which will be critical to the future of 
democracy there. U.N. food and agriculture agencies are compiling 
forecasts of global agricultural production, identifying areas of 
likely famine and severe hunger, and facilitating emergency food 
assistance. U.N. health agencies are on the frontlines of detecting 
outbreaks of avian flu and H1N1 and defending against a world pandemic. 
In addition, we work through U.N. organizations to protect a range of 
U.S. interests, from the intellectual property rights of American 
entrepreneurs to coordinating international aviation safety standards.

Third, passage of this amendment would directly threaten ongoing 
peacekeeping operations in nations essential to America's national 
security interests. There are now over 115,000 peacekeepers the second 
largest deployed military in the world serving in 17 missions in some 
of the most dangerous corners of the world. These U.N. peacekeeping 
operations are working to preserve peace and stability in fragile 
countries with grave humanitarian situations, including Darfur, 
Liberia, Lebanon, Haiti, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. U.N. 
peacekeeping is eight times less expensive than funding a U.S. force, 
according to the Government Accountability Office, and these 
peacekeeping operations help shoulder the burden with our military. 
U.N. peacekeeping missions also help end brutal conflicts, support 
stability, the transition to democratization, and bring relief for 
hundreds of millions of people. And if not for U.N. peacekeeping 
missions, some of these conflicts could require the presence of U.S. 
soldiers.

Haiti is a good example. The U.N. force in Haiti has dramatically 
reduced the number of kidnappings that plague the nation and helped 
deliver food and medicine, clean streets, and maintain security after 
several successive tropical storms devastated the country. The mission 
in Haiti is in the midst of a successful transition from keeping the 
peace to enhancing security for the people of that country. In the 
1990s, Florida faced wave after wave of illegal Haitians trying to 
escape from the failed state. Should this mission be abandoned? Should 
we abandon the people of Darfur?

Fourth, the President has stated his commitment to paying U.S. dues 
to international organizations in full. As Ambassador Rice has said, we 
must meet our obligations. As we call upon others to help reform and 
strengthen the U.N., the United States must do its part and pay its 
bills. Our dues to the United Nations and other international 
organizations are treaty obligations. The full payment of assessed 
contributions affects the standing and influence that the U.S. has at 
these organizations. Going into arrears undermines U.S. credibility and 
negatively influences world opinion regarding U.S. respect and 
appreciation for the role of multilateral organizations that support 
and advance U.S. foreign policy.

We all want our veterans and their families to receive the best care 
possible--they have earned it many times over--but this amendment 
presents us a false choice between caring for our veterans and 
protecting our global interests: we must do both. It is for these 
reasons I oppose Senator Coburn's amendment and urge fellow Members to 
oppose the amendment as well.