---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `954d626ceb9c54cc067ee5b3f83a3b69`
`Mr. BIDEN — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, to alert my colleagues, I will take 
somewhere between 20 and 30 minutes to speak on this issue this 
morning, and I will speak on it again prior to our finally voting on it 
on Tuesday.

Look, as I said, I have been a Senator since I was 29 years old. I 
have been here for seven Presidents, and I have observed that 
sometimes, on issues relating to national crises, whether it be 
domestic or foreign, events conspire to generate the kind of support 
for an idea that when it was first offered had few adherents. I think 
we are approaching that now.

The amendment Senators Brownback, Boxer, Specter, Kerry, and I, as 
well as Senator Hutchison and others have says that U.S. policy should 
support a political settlement in Iraq based on the principles of 
federalism. Look, for all the division in Washington and across the 
country over the policy in Iraq, one thing just about everyone accepts, 
literally--left, right, center, the President, the Congress, the 
American people, and the so-called experts--is that there is no 
military solution in Iraq. Let me say that again. There is no military 
solution in Iraq.

I, along with Senator McCain--in fact, shortly after the war began--
said that I thought it was foolish to start this war. But once we 
started it, I thought: My Lord, we should have more American forces 
there. I argued for up to 100,000 more American forces in the first 
year so things would not get out of hand. I argued we needed 5,900 
Gendarme paramilitary police from the international community. The 
Europeans were prepared to participate to literally restore order--make 
sure people didn't run the traffic lights or break into museums or 
engage in thuggery and robbery and crimes of ordinary violence, having 
nothing to do with sectarian divides. But we have passed that point.

To paraphrase General Petraeus, although he doesn't seem to be as 
adherent to his original comment, and he was paraphrasing someone 
else--I believe it was 3 or 4 years ago when we were in Iraq with him, 
and I am looking over my shoulder at my staff generally; at the time I 
think it was 3 years ago--he said, and I am paraphrasing, there comes a 
point in every liberation where it becomes an occupation. There comes a 
point in every liberation effort where it becomes an occupation. And we 
have reached that point. We reached that point 3 years ago. I argued we 
reached that point when we went in.


We had one brief, brief moment where, having mistakenly moved when we 
did, in my view, had we acted more responsibly instead of out of the 
arrogance and hubris that existed, we might, we might have been able to 
change the dynamic drastically. But that has long passed. That has long 
passed.

I guess the point I want to make, again, and the end result of all I 
am saying here is you will not find a single person who thinks that a 
military solution will work alone. So what we are all about here today 
is what everybody says: OK, there has to be a political solution, but 
literally, I say to you, Mr. President, up to this moment no one on the 
floor of the Senate has offered a political solution. I mean, it is 
really fundamental. There is nobody who has said: We all acknowledge 
there is no military solution. And by the way, I am not claiming I am 
the only one. I have many cosponsors. We have a lot of people now 
saying: OK, we acknowledge there is a need for a political solution, 
embedded in the notion I have been pushing for a couple of years now 
and in detail for the last year and a half or so with Les Gelb.

I have to recognize Les Gelb, a former administration official in a 
Democratic administration, in the Carter administration, the president 
emeritus of the New York Council on Foreign Relations, an incredibly 
respected voice in American foreign policy, and thought of as a genuine 
scholar. Les and I started off not in full agreement of what that 
political solution was, but we were all on the same page. The end 
result of all this is that the underlying premise of Les Gelb and Joe 
Biden in generating this was that the political solution we are 
proposing, which is what the Iraqi Constitution essentially calls for--
and it is not partition--is federalism.

Well, guess what. It is not going to happen spontaneously. The Iraqis 
aren't going to spontaneously decide in the midst of what is now a 
civil war and sectarian strife that they know how to do it on their 
own.

So getting back to the political question, everyone says there is a 
need for a political solution. But that begs the question, So what is 
your political solution?

The critics, and there is legitimate criticism of the Biden-Gelb 
plan, but the critics have come along and said: I don't like your plan, 
Biden. My response has been from the outset: If you don't like mine, 
what is yours? Think about it. Think about, as you consider whether the 
Biden-Brownback plan, which is essentially taking Biden-Gelb and 
putting it into an amendment to the Defense authorization bill--think 
about what it says. We say this is our political solution. This is what 
we think is the way out.

So as I began this debate, my invitation to my colleagues was: I get 
it. You may not like all parts of it. You may not like it. You may 
think it is mostly correct. You may be able to legitimately point out 
there are weaknesses in it; things may or may not happen. I can't 
guarantee an outcome to this. But I would like you to think about it. 
If you don't like Biden's proposal, what is your idea?

Up to now, a lot of us have had what we voted on just a moment ago. 
It started off as the Biden-Hagel-Levin amendment back in January and 
February. I agree with it totally. It is now Levin-Reed. I think it is 
a good amendment. It is essentially the same one we voted on twice 
before. I was the author of it, along with my friend from Michigan, the 
leader of the Armed Services Committee. But the truth is, it is not a 
political solution. It is an important tactic to reach the point we all 
want to reach.

And what is that? When you cut through all of this, what is it the 
American people, what is it all my colleagues, all 100 of us, want? No 
one wants to keep American forces there, with almost 3,800 dead, close 
to 28,000 wounded, roughly 14,000 severely wounded and who are going to 
require medical attention and care the rest of their lives. No one in 
here wants that. If we could wave a wand, there is not a single Member, 
from the most conservative to the most liberal in this body, who 
wouldn't take every troop out if they could, tomorrow. We don't want 
our kids going. I don't want my son going, my daughter going. I don't 
want my grandkids going, either.

What is recognized underneath all of this is there is a clear 
understanding that even though most of us on this side of the aisle 
opposed what the President did and how he did it, there is a 
recognition that it matters what we leave behind. It matters a whole 
bunch. It matters for our grandchildren. It matters for our children.

Look, folks, there is an overwhelming desire. I live with a woman I 
adore. We have been married for 30 years. She is unalterably opposed to 
this war. She, like every mother, lives in fear that her son, who is a 
captain in the Army, is going to be sent over, which is probable. So 
her fervent wish every time I go home is: Joe, get them out of there. 
Get them out of there. You are chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee; get them out of there. Well, the truth is, the vast majority 
of the people know that getting


out of this is almost as difficult as the problems the President caused 
by getting us into it.

I know I am speaking colloquially here. I am not speaking in 
senatorial tones. But this is basic stuff.

My two staff members sitting to my left--and I admire the devil out 
of them--have accompanied me on eight trips to Iraq. The last time 
coming home, we were all supposed to get on an aircraft, but only one 
of them did, a C-130 that was supposed to take us home. Ambassador 
Crocker asked whether I would fly to Germany with him on his way home. 
He was coming to testify. He thought it would give us a chance to talk. 
And so I did. Actually, I flew out of Iraq into Kuwait with him to 
catch a commercial flight. The C-130 cargo plane I was supposed to get 
on--we got word there were six fallen angels on that plane. Six fallen 
angels.

That is what these tough, courageous, brave, hard Marines, Army, 
Navy, some of whom are there, et cetera, Air Force, call a dead 
American soldier whose body is coming home. They call them fallen 
angels.

You see these guys also who you know have been shot at and shot back, 
injured and injured others--it is such an emotional phase, to hear them 
talk in hushed tones, to treat every one of those coffins that gets put 
on board the C-130--every one of which comes through my State in Dover, 
Delaware--to hear these people, these fighting men and women, treat 
every single solitary death with the reverence it deserves. The 
American people would be stunned. They would be proud. They would be 
sad and they would be concerned. So they put six fallen angels on a 
plane.

The President of the United States a couple of days later--and I was 
there 2 weeks ago--a week ago--went on television and told the American 
people what great military progress we are making. But what he said 
was: I have no plan to end this war. I have no plan to win this war. I 
have a plan, as one of the press people said--it is not my line--he 
said: The American people are using the American forces as a cork in 
the bottle to keep the venom from spreading out beyond the borders in a 
regional war.

I am not prepared to use my son and his generation as a cork in a 
bottle. The American people are not prepared to do that either.

So what do we do? What do we do? Do we cut off funding? Talk about a 
hollow reed. How do you do that? How do you cut off funding for the 
166,000 troops? Even if we ordered everyone home tomorrow, they have to 
get out of that country. Do you not provide them with the mine-
resistant vehicles that can increase their life expectancy, when hit 
with a roadside bomb, by 80 percent? Do you not provide them with that? 
Do we cut that off? I don't know how you do that.

Some things are worth losing elections over. I am not going to do 
that. So what do you do? Do you draw down troops on an orderly basis 
while you are protecting them? Yes. But where does that get you at the 
end of the day?

The good news is they are out. There are fewer fallen angels. But the 
bad news is how many angels will fall in the next 10 years or 15 years, 
if this war metastasizes into the region. Because, ironically, the 
President's policy, which is dead wrong, has one truism about it: Chaos 
in Iraq will have regional consequences. The irony is, it is his policy 
that is causing the chaos.

Getting back to the point of the amendment, so everybody understands 
the context in which this is being offered, it is being offered to say: 
Look, there is a way to do all of this. There is a way to reduce the 
number of fallen angels. There is a way to reduce the injuries and 
casualties. There is a way to reduce the number of deaths among the 
Iraqis. There is a way to keep this war from metastasizing. There is a 
way that we have, a last chance we have, to leave and not run the risk 
of having to send my grandson back. My grandson is a toddler.

We have been faced in this body with two false arguments. One is more 
of the same and it will get better, and the other is leave and hope for 
the best.

Again, I get back to the central premise to what I have been 
proposing. There is a need for a political rationale. What is the 
political rationale supposed to accomplish? It is a way--nothing is 
going to get better. We must leave, by the way. Come hell or high 
water, we must leave. But are we going to leave giving the Iraqis a 
chance that they can end up with a political agreement among 
themselves? For what purpose is the political agreement? To stop the 
civil war. That is it in a nutshell. Anybody who denies this is a 
sectarian war I think is denying reality.

The President--as my mother would say, God love him--keeps talking 
about al-Qaida. Al-Qaida is a problem. I would argue it is a Bush-
fulfilling prophecy, al-Qaida in Iraq. But there is even in the 
military--as my good friend--and I admire the devil out of him, my 
friend from Virginia--as he points out, he knows when you go to Iraq, 
the military refers to al-Qaida of Mesopotamia; al-Qaida in Iraq. They 
are making a distinction by that, between al-Qaida in Iraq and al-Qaida 
in Afghanistan, al-Qaida in Pakistan. As I said to the President in one 
of my trips back, in a debriefing--which my friend knows we do. The 
President has us down and has his war cabinet and asks us--you know, we 
give our view.

He was telling me about freedom being on the march. I said: With all 
due respect, Mr. President, if every single solitary jihadi in the 
world were killed tomorrow--I said if the Lord Almighty came down and 
sat at the middle of this table--we were in the Roosevelt Room--and 
looked at you and said, Mr. President, I guarantee there is not one 
single al-Qaida person living in the world, Mr. President, you still 
have a massive war on your hands. You have a massive war on your hands.

I see my friend from Virginia is standing. I will be happy to yield 
to him.