---
---

# None
## `954f893b010fe89b32617d256fe6f320`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Madam Speaker, today I rise to place into the Record my 
letter to His Holiness Benedict XVI concerning the persecution of the 
Christian community in Iraq.


























July 24, 2008.


 His Holiness Benedict XVI,


 Apostolic Palace,


 Vatican City State, Europe.----



 Your Holiness: It is with great respect that I write to you 


 as both a Member of Congress and a Roman Catholic. Your 


 witness to justice and advocacy of the plight of the 


 persecuted is an instrument of hope.



 Your Holiness has emphasized the importance to the Church 


 of the well-being of the ancient Christian community of Iraq. 


 It is now widely acknowledged to be an ''endangered'' 


 community, with nearly half of its members forced to flee 


 Iraq over the past five years. As the U.S. Conference of 


 Catholic Bishops Migration & Refugee Services reported last 


 July: ''Especially critical is the plight of Iraq's minority 


 religious communities, including Christians and Mandeans (or 


 Sabeans). These groups, whose home has been what is now Iraq 


 for many centuries, are literally being obliterated--not 


 because they are fleeing generalized violence but because 


 they are being specifically and viciously victimized by 


 Islamic extremists and, in some cases, common criminals.''



 As you meet with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki tomorrow, 


 please know that the United States is shifting its burden to 


 the Iraqi government. It is imperative that he acknowledge 


 and commit to the future well-being of Iraq's endangered 


 religious minorities.



 Concerned Americans, including the ChaldoAssyrian 


 Christians in my Congressional district, are anxious that the 


 Maliki government address the following issues to ensure that 


 the Iraqi Christians, who have made contributions to Iraqi 


 society far beyond what their numbers suggest, and other 


 smallest minorities are able to maintain their presence as 


 part of the national fabric of that country: Security, 


 including protection for their vulnerable clergy, development 


 assistance, humanitarian aid for the large number of 


 displaced among them, educational opportunities, full civic 


 participation, including thorough measures to guarantee free 


 and fair provincial elections later this year that would 


 allow them just representation, and equal treatment under the 


 constitution that would allow political autonomy in the 


 Nineveh Plains.



 Be assured that I will remain actively engaged with the 


 ChaldoAssyrian Church and civic leaders in the United States 


 and Iraq to protect the fundamental dignity of this oppressed 


 ancient community of Iraq.



 The psalmist seeking deliverance from his enemies remembers 


 the great mercy of God. ''Blessed be the Lord! For he has 


 shown me the wonders of his love in a besieged city . . . Be 


 strong and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for 


 the Lord'' (Psalm 31: 21,24) The Christians of Iraq have 


 suffered threats of violence, kidnappings, murder and being 


 exiled from their ancient homeland. And yet, they are 


 resilient in the face of what is certainly an existential 


 threat. Their great faith and your advocacy on their behalf, 


 give them hope.




I have the honor to profess myself with the most profound 


 respect, your Holiness, sincerely yours,






















 Thaddeus G. McCotter,


 Member of Congress.
