---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `955f5e2d8c92ec76db0f2852e6fe8d33`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 10 November 2009`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I rise today to honor and pay tribute to 
Montana's fallen heroes, the dedicated men and women from our great 
State who have made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan 
since 9/11.

Montanans proudly volunteer for military service at rates higher than 
any State in the country, higher per capita. Unfortunately, this 
distinction comes at a great price. To date, 40 Montanans have died and 
nearly 250 have been wounded in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. Montana 
has now suffered more casualties per capita than any other State in the 
Union. This is staggering. It illuminates just how much our State's 
citizens have sacrificed in the service of our country.

The famous World War II radio reporter Elmer Davis once said:




 This Nation will remain the land of the free only so long 


 as it is the home of the brave.


It is painfully apparent that Montana is home to some of the bravest 
men and women of all. Who are these fallen heroes? They range in age 
from 18 to 40. They hailed from places far afield, such as Troy and 
Glendive, Billings and Missoula, Lame Deer and Colstrip. They grew up 
in cities and towns, on ranches and farms, and on the reservation. Some 
heroes were Active-Duty warriors, others part-time citizen soldiers. 
They held ranks from lance corporal to lieutenant colonel. It amazes me 
that with such a variety of backgrounds, our heroes all shared the 
common bond of a desire to serve their country in this time of crisis 
and need.

The Gospel of John, chapter 15, reads:




 Greater love hath no man than this: that a man lay down his 


 life for his friends.


No tribute could possibly express the extent of my gratitude for what 
these soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines have done for their 
country.

During Vietnam, the late Senator Mike Mansfield carried a casualty 
card in his breast pocket. In that same spirit, I, too, wish to honor 
their sacrifice by reading Montana's fallen heroes into the Record. The 
following Montanans were killed while serving in Operation Iraqi 
Freedom:




 Army SGT Travis M. Arndt, 23, Bozeman; Army SSG Travis 


 Atkins, 31, Bozeman; my nephew, Marine Cpl Phillip E. Baucus, 


 28, Wolf Creek; Army SSG Shane Becker, 35, Helena; Marine PFC 


 Andrew D. Bedard, 19, Missoula; Marine LCpl Nicholas William 


 Bloem, age 20, Belgrade; Army PFC Kyle Bohrnsen, 22, 


 Philipsburg; Army LTC Garnet Derby, 44, Missoula; Army SGT 


 Scott Dykman, 27, Helena; Army SPC Michael Frank, 36, Great 


 Falls; Marine LCpl Kane Michael Funk, age 20, Kalispell; Army 


 SSG Yance T. Gray, 26, from Ismay; Army SSG Aaron Holleyman, 


 26, Glasgow; Army PVT Timothy J. Hutton, 21, Dillon; Navy PO2 


 Charles Komppa, 35, Belgrade; Army CPL Troy Linden, age 22, 


 Billings; Army CPT Michael McKinnon, 30, Helena; Army SGT 


 James A. McHale, 31, Fairfield; Army MSG Robbie McNary, 42, 


 Lewistown; Marine LCpl Jeremy Scott Sandvick Monroe, 20, 


 Chinook; Army PFC Shawn Murphy, 24, Butte; Marine LCpl Nick 


 J. Palmer, 19, Great Falls; Army CPT Andrew R. Pearson, 32, 


 Billings; Marine Cpl Dean Pratt, 22, Stevensville; Army SPC 


 James Daniel Riekena, 22, Missoula; Army 1LT Edward M. Saltz, 


 27, Bigfork; Army PVT Daren Smith, 19, Helena; Marine Cpl 


 Raleigh C. Smith, 21, Troy; Marine Cpl Stewart S. Trejo, 25, 


 Whitefish; Army PFC Owen D. Witt, 20, Sand Springs; Army SPC 


 Donald M. Young, 19, Helena; Army PVT Matthew T. Zeimer, 18, 


 Glendive.


The following Montanans were killed while serving in Operation 
Enduring Freedom:




 Navy aviation electronics technician, Andrew S. 


 Charpentier, 21, Great Falls; Army 1LT Joshua Hyland, 31, 


 Missoula; Marine Sgt Trevor Johnson, 23, Colstrip; Army SGT 


 Terry Lynch, 22, Shepherd; Army PFC Kristofer T. 


 Stonesifer, 28, Missoula.


The following Montanans died shortly after returning home from 
Operation Iraqi Freedom: Army CPL Christopher M. Dana, 23, Helena; and 
Army SGT George Kellum, 23, Lame Deer.

It pains me dearly to read this list out loud and I cannot begin to 
imagine how many broken hearts each name represents back home. Our 
fallen heroes fought and died for our great Nation and all it 
represents. We owe them a debt of gratitude that can never be fully 
repaid. We must honor their legacies by remembering their sacrifice as 
we carry on with our lives.

To all of Montana's families staring at an empty bedroom or an empty 
chair at the dining room table: You will always be in my thoughts and 
prayers. I pledge to do all I can to honor your fallen loved ones.



To Montana's fallen warriors: We will never forget.

I yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.