---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9560a06ceef2707b747096492c9dbe66`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 20 November 2008`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise 
today to honor the life and heroic service of SSG Timothy H. Walker. 
Staff Sergeant Walker, a member of the 4th Infantry Division at Fort 
Carson, was killed in Sadr City, Iraq on November 8, 2008, when an 
improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. He was 38 years 
old.

A native of Tennessee, Staff Sergeant Walker joined the Army in 1990. 
He served in Bosnia from 1999 to 2000, Kuwait in 2001, and also served 
two tours of duty in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. During his 
most recent deployment, Staff Sergeant Walker, a combat medic himself, 
was actively involved in training Iraqis to treat combat wounds on the 
battlefield, and he served as the medical material coordinator for the 
Iraqi Security Forces logistics coordination team, which teaches Iraqi 
police officers and soldiers how to track and receive medical supplies.

Throughout his 18 years of service, and in every capacity, Staff 
Sergeant Walker distinguished himself through his courage, his 
dedication to duty, and his willingness to take on any challenge--no 
matter how dangerous, no matter how big or small. His extraordinary 
bravery and talent earned him more than 20 awards and medals, including 
the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star, and the Meritorious Service Medal.

Staff Sergeant Walker is remembered by those who knew him as a 
consummate professional and friend who they could turn to in times of 
need, and who they could always count on to raise their spirits in 
times of sadness. They recall his knack for giving people nicknames, 
and the infectiousness of his laughter. And, most of all, they remember 
his devotion to his wife and children, and to his country.

The Greek historian Thucydides wrote that ''the bravest are surely 
those who have the clearest vision of what is before them, glory and 
danger alike, and yet notwithstanding, go out to meet it.'' Throughout 
our Nation's history, the bravest have gone out to meet every danger 
that has imperiled our way of life. They stormed the beaches of 
Normandy and Iwo Jima facing long odds, and now, in 2008, they traverse 
the mountains of Afghanistan and navigate the cities of Iraq under 
constant threat of insurgent attacks. The bravest have kept us safe and 
strong. They will always make us proud.

Staff Sergeant Walker's service was in keeping with this American 
tradition. At substantial personal risk, he braved the chaos of combat 
zones throughout the world to attend to the injuries of his men. And 
though their fate on the battlefield was uncertain, his men knew that, 
in Staff Sergeant Walker, they were in good hands. For the lives he 
saved, and for the lives he touched, Staff Sergeant Walker will be 
forever remembered as one of the bravest.

To Staff Sergeant Walker's mother Barbara, his father Wayne, his wife 
Dawn, his children Gregory and Madison, his sister Shelly, and all his 
friends and family, I cannot imagine the sorrow you must be feeling. I 
hope that, in time, the pain of your loss is


assuaged by your pride in Tim's service to his country and by your 
knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his 
service and his sacrifice.














 Sergeant Jon L. Stiles


Mr. President, it is with a heavy heart that I rise today to honor 
the life and heroic service of Sergeant Jon L. Stiles. Sergeant Stiles, 
assigned to the 927th Engineer Company, 769th Engineer Battalion, was 
killed on November 13, 2008, when an improvised explosive device 
detonated near his patrol in Shubhuyan, Afghanistan. He was 38 years 
old.

Sergeant Stiles grew up in Highlands Ranch, CO, and after graduating 
from high school, spent nearly 13 years in the U.S. Marine Corps and 2 
years in the Army. Two years following his discharge, he moved back to 
Colorado, joined the Colorado National Guard, and was deployed to 
Afghanistan, where he worked to clear transportation routes of IEDs and 
insurgents in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

This past October, Sergeant Stiles saved the lives of three fellow 
soldiers when he rescued them from underneath a burning vehicle that 
was struck by a suicide bomber, an act of incredible bravery that 
earned him the Bronze Star. He suffered serious damage to his lungs and 
vocal chords as a result of this incident, but instead of taking 
medical leave, he insisted on returning to battle. He believed strongly 
in our mission in Afghanistan, cared deeply for his men, and wanted to 
make a difference.

Sergeant Stiles' friends and family remember him as a soldier's 
soldier with a passion for military service in his DNA. He was an avid 
outdoorsman known to brave sub-zero temperatures to get in a day of 
fishing. He was generous with hugs and incredibly loyal to his friends. 
He was a loving husband who wanted to live peacefully with his wife in 
the mountains of Colorado. And he was a proud American willing to 
sacrifice everything in defense of the country he held dear.

Adlai Stevenson once asked, ''what do we mean by patriotism in the 
context of our times? I venture to suggest that what we mean is a sense 
of national responsibility . . . a patriotism which is not short, 
frenzied outbursts of emotion, but the tranquil and steady dedication 
of a lifetime.'' Sergeant Stiles felt this sense of responsibility at a 
young age and served with the steady dedication that reminds us of what 
it is to be a true patriot. In his memory, and with his inspiration, 
may we all continue to work to make our union more perfect, and our 
world safer for all.

To Sergeant Stiles' mother Linda, his father Lynn, his wife Launa, 
his sister Natalie, his brother Charles, his grandparents Maxine and 
Kenney, and all his friends and family, I cannot imagine the sorrow you 
must be feeling. I hope that, in time, the pain of your loss is 
assuaged by your pride in Jon's service to his country and by your 
knowledge that his country will never forget him. We are humbled by his 
service and his sacrifice.

