# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `95687bc7957a31aed1479b8ca85f1c82`
`Mr. KING of New York — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. KING of New York. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this resolution 
and in strong support of our troops and their mission.

This resolution is wrong in every respect. It is wrong 
constitutionally. Never before in our history has Congress attempted to 
control or restrict battlefield decisions. It is wrong as a matter of 
policy, and it will come back to haunt us for years to come.

Madam Speaker, wars must not be waged according to opinion polls or 
applause meters. For instance, just look at the battle of Iwo Jima, an 
island in the Pacific where in less than 6 weeks, more than twice as 
many Americans were killed as have been killed throughout the entire 
Iraq war, and yet Congress didn't jump in to question the policies of 
the President.

And look at the Korean War. There was no declaration of war. The 
United States and the overwhelming majority of coalition troops in the 
field, 36,000 Americans were killed and another 8,000 were missing. 
More than 70 percent of the American people opposed President Truman 
and his handling of the war. Yet today, President Truman is honored as 
one of our greatest Presidents, and the Korean War is looked upon as a 
key turning point in our struggle against communism.

Madam Speaker, Iraq cannot be looked upon or looked at in a vacuum. 
This war in Iraq is an absolutely essential component of the war 
against Islamic terrorism which must be fought in many places 
throughout the world, including right here at home.

As a Member of Congress who lost upwards of 150 friends, neighbors, 
and constituents on September 11, 2001, I have seen firsthand how evil 
this enemy can be. And al Qaeda itself has said that Iraq is a major 
battleground in this war.

Madam Speaker, we cannot allow ourselves to do anything which would 
undermine our troops who are the frontline soldiers in this war against 
Islamic terrorism.

I know that the resolution expresses support for the troops, but talk 
is cheap and actions have consequences. You cannot support the troops 
if you are undermining their mission and challenging their commander in 
the field. And that is what this resolution does.

Speaker after speaker in support of the resolution has said that the 
new policy in Iraq will not work. But General Petraeus, who is the 
author of this policy and who has just been unanimously confirmed by 
the Senate, has said this policy can work and that his troops can carry 
it out. By opposing this new policy, the supporters of the resolution 
are clearly undermining a new commander in Iraq at such a vital time in 
the conduct of this war.

As the national commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars said 
earlier this week, ''When military decisions are second-guessed by 
opinion polls or overruled by politicians, it is the common soldier and 
their families who pay the price. The VFW is very concerned with the 
tone and timing of this debate. We need to send the message to our 
troops that America wants them to succeed in Iraq by giving the buildup 
a chance to succeed.''

Madam Speaker, what makes this worse is that we know today's 
resolution is only the first step to prevent General Petraeus and his 
troops from carrying out their mission. The Democratic leadership has 
admitted, indeed proudly acknowledged, that it is their goal to impose 
as many conditions as they can to prevent General Petraeus from getting 
the troops and the reinforcements he needs to win this war.

Madam Speaker, never in our history have the Speaker of the House or 
the House Appropriations Committee attempted to superimpose their 
policies on troop training or troop leave, and override the Commander 
in Chief and the commander in the field.

Madam Speaker, this is not the time for sunshine soldiers or 
summertime patriots. It is time for Members of this body to show at 
least a small percentage of the courage shown every day by our troops 
in Iraq.

If you want to cut off the funding for our troops who will be in the 
line of fire, don't be cute, don't try to sneak it through the back 
door. Have the guts to do it directly.

Madam Speaker, this debate is not about this President or this 
Congress or the next election. It is about our survival as a Nation and 
our survival as a civilization. Vote for our troops and against this 
misguided and dangerous resolution.