---
---

# SALUTING 290TH MILITARY POLICE COMPANY
## `95706df33507787c5b4e236cabea7206`
`Mr. KRATOVIL — 17 March 2009`

---


Mr. KRATOVIL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 290th Military 
Police Company of Adelphi, Maryland. Earlier this month I had the honor 
of attending a welcome home ceremony for the soldiers.

In June of 1948, the ''Defenders'' received their original Federal 
recognition and were activated several times during the 1960s and 1970s 
to quell civil disturbance in Cambridge, Salisbury and Baltimore, 
Maryland. In 1990, the 290th was mobilized both in support of Operation 
Desert Shield and of Desert Storm.

On September 11, the 290th was again called to service to secure the 
crash site at the Pentagon while rescue and recovery operations took 
place. From there, the 290th was mobilized under Operation Noble Eagle 
for homeland defense.

The 290th was again called upon to help support Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan. During the mission, the 290th provided force 
protection for key air bases, including those in Pakistan.

In 2005, when Hurricane Katrina devastated the gulf region, once 
again the 290th was sent to Mississippi to assist local law enforcement 
with emergency and relief operations. And, again, in October 2007, the 
290th was once again mobilized and deployed in support of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. This is a unit that has been asked to serve our Nation 
all over the world and right here at home, and each time it has 
responded to the call of duty valiantly and honorably. But now, 
deservedly, they are home.

Our Nation's greatest strength is the men and women who selflessly 
give of themselves to defend our ideals, and their families, who make 
sacrifices every day while their loved ones are in harm's way. I salute 
the 290th military police company and welcome them home, and pledge to 
be an advocate for them and all veterans of our Armed Forces.

Celebrating the valor of our Armed Forces is one thing, but here in 
Congress we must put our money where our mouth is and support the men 
and women of our Armed Forces, their families and our veterans, or we 
are merely providing lip service to them.

Mr. Speaker, I submit for the Record the members of the unit from 
Maryland's First Congressional District, who served so honorably.




 Name, Rank, City:



 Benitez, Luis Enrique, Jr, SPC, Bel Air, MD 21014; Fowler, 


 Allen Mitchell, SGT, Bel Air, MD 21014; Sullens, Jeffrey Lee, 


 SGT, Belcamp, MD 21017; Frederick, Robert, SPC, Preston, MD 


 21655; Zimmerman, Maria Masha, SPC, Preston, MD 21655; Wood, 


 James Spencer, SPC, Cockeysville, MD 21030; Smack, Derrick 


 Clinton, SPC, Delmar, MD 21875.



 Dixon, Kassey Craig, SPC, Elkridge, MD 21075; Dixon, Kim 


 Craig, SGT, Elkridge, MD 21075; Saunders, James Junior, 1SG, 


 Hanover, MD 21076; Baschogeorge, Franklyn L, SGT, Jessup, MD 


 20794; Buckingham, Victoria Kathari, SGT, Laurel, MD 20708; 


 Sadler, Brandon Anthony, SPC, Port Deposit, MD 21904; Ward, 


 John Allen, SPC, Port Deposit, MD 21904.



 Clayton, John Joseph, SSG, Annapolis, MD 21409; Tull, 


 Thomas David, SSG, Severn, MD 21144; Windisch, Catherine 


 Anne, SSG, Annapolis, MD 21409; Blevins, Richard Earl, SGT, 


 Hebron, MD 21830; Calhoun, Susan Mabel, SGT, Delmar, MD 


 21875; Cannon, Anitra Chantal, SPC, Crisfield, MD 21817; 


 Dixon, Joel Harrison, SPC, Salisbury, MD 21804.



 Henley, Tony Mario, Jr, SPC, Pittsville, MD 21850; Houston, 


 Martin Lee, Jr, SPC, Ocean City, MD 21842; Insley, Amber Joy, 


 SPC, Princess Anne, MD 21853; Marvin, Andrew Michael, SGT, 


 Salisbury, MD 21804; Richards, Johnathan, SPC, Pocomoke, MD 


 21851; Hunter, Christy Lynn, SGT, Crisfield, MD 21817.
