---
---

# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `9573d318ee211d598ba089bdc68b88c6`
`Mr. HALL of New York — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. HALL of New York. Well, in fact I do. And I thank the gentleman. 
You know, I saw 60 Minutes, I think this last Sunday, and they had an 
interview about the topic you just mentioned, the Iraqi windfall due to 
the price of oil, and how those tens of billions dollars are sitting in 
accounts. And the Iraqi officials interviewed on the TV show said they 
can't get at them to pay for their own reconstruction; and the American 
taxpayer has to keep paying the way we are because they don't yet have 
the systems in place or the infrastructure or the banking technology to 
be able to transfer the money.

Now, either that's a really lame excuse, or we've been missing the 
boat by not helping them set that up. Or both.

But you know, I have to just, not to be, not to carp on an old topic, 
but to hearken back to the previous hour and the other side of the 
aisle, our friends' presentation about budgetary truth. I would point 
out that the President's budget that he sent down to us this year shows 
no money for Iraq after the first of the year. So that's obviously not 
an honest document.

It also assumes the AMT, the Alternative Minimum Tax which was 
supposed to be a tax on the richest of the rich and has become instead 
a tax that's been digging deeper and deeper into the middle class, and 
we've been working to change that. Our budget does change that and 
pushes it back up to the wealthiest 4 percent or so of Americans.

But the President's budget assumes all the money that will be scooped 
out of the middle class, if nothing is done, will be available. So I 
just had to say those couple of things about that.