---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `957455efd9bddd66a9153b5f27f665a7`
`Mr. OBEY — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago this Congress voted to authorize 
the President to engage in a preemptive attack to Iraq, a country that 
had not attacked the United States. I supported the military action 
against Afghanistan because they gave sanctuary to Osama bin Laden and 
those who attacked us on 9/11. But I opposed the President's unilateral 
and preemptive attack on Iraq, because I believed that this action 
would destabilize the Middle East, isolate us in world opinion, and 
weaken our influence in the world. Our opposition was vilified. Our 
patriotism was questioned, and that continues today.

We are told that if we oppose the President's intensification of the 
war, we are giving aid and comfort to the enemy. Well, I, for one, am 
tired of those who have been consistently wrong about this war 
lecturing those of us who have been right from the start. I am tired of 
the manipulation of intelligence by this administration. I am tired of 
the stubbornness of an administration that didn't have a clue about the 
Middle East realities when they got us into this mess, and don't have a 
clue now about how to get us out.

Sadly, there will be no happy endings to this war. The President's 
policy has done so much damage that there is no good way for us to get 
out, whether it happens in 6 months or a year or 5 years.

Our troops won the war, God bless them. But the problem with the 
President's plan is that it calls upon our troops to do something they 
do not have the power to do, and that is to convince the Iraqi factions 
to stop killing each other and work together on a political compromise.

Instead of the President's surge, in my view, we should set a rough 
target for repositioning our troops out of the area. We should 
recognize that Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds, will never join together in a 
strong central government. We should tell the Iraqis that if they do 
not amend their Constitution to allow for a loose confederation with an 
oil sharing agreement between the Sunnis and the Shiites, that we will 
leave them to each others' tender mercies. We should participate in 
regional discussions with all parties, including Syria and Iran. We 
should resume aggressive leadership to resurrect a meaningful Middle 
East process, peace process, and Congress should pass legislation 
prohibiting an attack on Iran without authorization by this Congress.

Given the chaos that the administration's policy has produced, none 
of these suggestions may work. But all of them would be better than 
continuing to be stuck in another 5-year period in an endless war with 
endless promises to the American people and with endless failures on 
the ground.