# CONGRESSIONAL PROGRESSIVE CAUCUS
## `95781dea815021baadc30b5e2d7e6c1a`
`Mr. ELLISON — 4 February 2009`

---


Mr. ELLISON. If the gentleman yields back.

Congressman Johnson, you know, we are the progressives. We want 
progress. And if you say you're a conservative, what, over the past 8 
years, do you want to conserve? Do you want to conserve these exploding 
unemployment rates they've handed us? Do you want to conserve this war 
in Iraq and Afghanistan? Maybe you want to conserve this regime of 
deregulation which has allowed businesses, and particularly in the 
financial sector, to do whatever they want and not have to worry about 
consumers. Is that what you're trying to conserve?

The fact is the people of America don't want conservatism. They want 
a progressive vision. They're looking at things like I have up on this 
graph right here.

They're looking at Minnesota. We have an unemployment rate in 2008 of 
6.9 percent. Last year, 2007, it was 4.7. In California, they're 
looking at 9.3 percent unemployment this year, 5.9 percent the year 
before.

What about our colleagues from Michigan, Congressman Johnson? We've 
got a serious problem.

The question is if you look at these high unemployment rates, and you 
look at every blue line is 2007 and every red line is 2008, as you can 
tell, unemployment is up all across the Nation everywhere.

These things did not happen by accident. They are the product of a 
set of policies, many of which were promulgated right in this gallery 
you and I are in right now. Many of the policies saying that poor 
people have too much money and rich people don't have enough money 
promulgated right here. Tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, no 
accountability. As a matter of fact, it was put into legislation that 
the whole credit default swap market would be excluded from regulation, 
and now we know that these derivative products cause so much risk in 
the system that we don't know what to do about it.

The fact is, the policies and the procedures that have brought this 
about were done right here during the last 8 years, and we are now 
going to project a progressive vision to get us out of it.

Let me just say this before I turn it over to you, Congressman.

America has suffered 11 straight months of joblessness, of increasing 
job losses, totaling more than two million in the last year, 1.3 
million jobs lost in the last 3 months alone. The job losses totaled 
over 500,000 in November, the biggest 1-month jump in 34 years. Now 
that's serious business.

So, facing these kinds of things, Congressman, what would be your 
thought as to what we should be thinking about right now?

Let me yield to you.