# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `957ad7c762a7a70ffadb28eb1b9d86f2`
`Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia. Madam Chairman, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume.

I rise today to speak on H.R. 1362, the Accountability in Contracting 
Act, which was introduced by Government Oversight and Reform chairman 
Henry Waxman last week. I want to thank the chairman for working with 
us.

This is not a bill that we are particularly enthusiastic about. We 
have very divergent views in the way we should go about contract 
regulation, but we both want the same ends. And I want to commend him 
for working with us, addressing some of our concerns as it moved 
through the committee process.

This bill would attempt to reform our acquisition system through a 
series of restrictions and reports geared towards greater regulation 
and oversight. More specifically, the legislation would limit the 
duration of contracts awarded under urgent conditions; require agency 
reports on minimizing the use of fixed-price and sole-source contracts; 
require additional reports to Congress on cost questions by auditors; 
and broaden the reach of current limitations on post-employment 
opportunities for our acquisition workforce, as well as limit the 
ability of acquisition workers hired by the government from the private 
sector to participate in certain acquisition activities.

I want to thank the chairman again for working with me by including 
two provisions that we requested that are both intended to strengthen 
the Federal acquisition workforce through better training and 
management. The first would require the administrator for Federal 
Procurement Policy to come up with a government-wide definition for 
''acquisition workforce.'' This modification would help give Federal 
agencies a clear picture of the composition of their existing 
acquisition workforce and provide a baseline for the improvement of the 
human capital resource dedicated to the management of the acquisition 
workload. The second would make permanent the Acquisition Workforce 
Training Fund, which was first enacted under SARA, the Services 
Acquisition Reform Act, which I authored.

Last week our committee revised the introduced version of the bill by 
approving an amendment I offered to address the concerns I had with the 
bill's expansion of post-employment restrictions. While I 
wholeheartedly support the desire to promote integrity, transparency 
and accountability in government, I was troubled by certain provisions 
in the bill which sought to significantly expand current post-
employment restrictions and curb the government's capability to take 
advantage of the valuable technical abilities and skills of former 
private-sector employees.

At a time when we need to be looking for ways to retain qualified 
acquisition personnel, too many of whom are approaching retirement age, 
while at the same time looking for effective ways to


recruit new qualified people, the introduced version tried to instead 
impose new restrictions on these Federal employees. These restrictions 
would have had a detrimental impact on the executive branch's ability 
to recruit and retain the brightest and the best personnel for the 
acquisition workforce, something we can ill afford.

Our amendment shortened the bill's 2-year post-employment 
restrictions on contracting officers to 1 year and provided for a 
waiver of the restrictions on the ability of acquisition workers hired 
by the government from the private sector to participate in certain 
acquisition activities. My amendment also shortened the duration of the 
activity restrictions from 2 years to 1 year. While this language goes 
part way toward addressing my concerns about the negative effects such 
restrictions have had on the Federal Government's ability to recruit, 
hire, and retain the skilled acquisition workforce, I continue to have 
the same concerns.

The bottom line is that there are too many good people working for 
this government for us to pass onerous restrictions based on the 
misdeeds of a handful of employees. We need to promote the natural 
churn of employees between the public and private sector, instead of 
trying to stymie it. We can't, on the one hand, bemoan the quality of 
contract management, while on the other, create more obstacles to 
getting the people that we need to do the job.

In addition to the changes we made in committee last week, I am 
pleased to see the text of the bill that is on the floor today includes 
the good work of the Committee on Armed Services. That committee made 
significant improvements and clarifications to the underlying bill. The 
Armed Services Committee toned down some of the rhetoric in the bill. 
For example, by changing terms like ''limiting the abuse of abuse-prone 
contracts'' to ''improving the quality of contracts.''

More substantively, the Armed Services Committee raised the threshold 
of the report on preliminary audits of contractor costs from $1 million 
to $10 million. Nonetheless, I remain concerned a report like this, 
even at the higher threshold and the limitation to significant 
contractor costs, still presents a distorted and incomplete picture of 
the management of cost-type contracts. Contract auditors are critical 
cogs in the management system. They write audit reports which are 
submitted to aid the contracting officer in making his final 
determination whether particular costs are reasonable and consistent 
with applicable law and the contract terms and, therefore, permitted or 
what we call ''allowable under the contract.'' It is the outcome of the 
oversight process, not just the first phase, that we should be 
reviewing. If we want an accurate picture of costs actually billed to 
the government which the contracting officer determined the government 
will not pay, the unallowables, then we might learn something. But that 
is not what this bill does. The bill would only burden agencies with 
another meaningless reporting requirement and, I might add, add fodder 
up here for Members to take this review and make something of it that 
is probably not accurate.


Each year our Federal contract professionals use the acquisition 
system to purchase almost $400 billion worth of goods and services, 
ranging from paper clips to advanced weapons system, from sophisticated 
information technology and management services to grass cutting and 
window washing. Recent reforms, culminating in our Services Acquisition 
Reform Act of 2003, have modernized the way the government does 
business with the private sector. No longer is our government laden 
with inflexible, timely, and costly acquisition systems. Legislative 
efforts over the past decade have provided many of the tools necessary 
for our acquisition professionals to get the job done.

Unfortunately, the Federal acquisition system has been under stress 
in recent years because of the extraordinary pressures of a shrinking 
workforce, combined with the unprecedented Hurricane Katrina disaster 
relief and recovery efforts, the enormous job of managing contractors 
who provide logistical support for our troops in Iraq, and overseeing 
the daunting task of building an Iraqi infrastructure. To no one's 
surprise, this strain has resulted in a series of management problems 
that have been exaggerated by the press and exploited by opponents of 
the system.

Nevertheless, the system has worked pretty well, and the vast 
majority of the government's acquisitions have been conducted properly. 
The problems have largely been the result of management difficulties 
exacerbated by an overburdened and understaffed workforce, combined 
with improper actions by a handful of officials.

Frankly, Madam Chairman, I don't think that controls, reports, 
procedures and restrictions in this bill will go very far in addressing 
the challenges that face us today. Reverting to the bloated system of 
the past, weighted down with a process-oriented system doesn't help the 
government acquire the best valuable goods and services the commercial 
market has to offer and our government so desperately needs in a timely 
manner. Reverting to the past, under the rubric of fraud, waste and 
abuse and cleaning up the system may provide flashy sound bites and 
play well back home, but it doesn't give us the world-class acquisition 
system that we need to compete in the 21st century.

We have put the current system to the test in some of the most 
difficult environments imaginable: Hurricane Katrina reconstruction and 
Iraqi logistics and contracting and reconstruction. The failures which 
occurred have been rooted in the inadequacies of management and 
implementation.

And yet the Rules Committee, in looking at the Armed Services 
Committee report and ours, took out the provision that had the 1 
percent additional funding for some of the management and 
implementation dollars that could have gone into training.

As legislators, we should resist the temptation to micromanage our 
acquisition system based on unproven anecdotes of failure and 
misconduct. More controls and procedures will not remedy poorly defined 
requirements or provide us with a sufficient number of Federal 
acquisition personnel with the right skills to select the best 
contractor and manage the subsequent performance.

Why should we force the taxpayers and private entities to undergo 
unreasonable burdens so politicians can reap short-term gain at the 
expense of crippling an already overburdened acquisition system and 
workforce?

It is for these reasons, Madam Chairman, we find this bill has 
sufficient shortcomings. These shortcomings are shared by the 
administration in their statement on administration policy in the ITAA, 
and I will discuss those as the debate goes further.

Finally, let me just say, this country, over the years, has had the 
debate over what is the appropriate role of oversight, how much is too 
much. But we need an acquisition system that works. And sometimes we 
spend so much in our rules and regulations, making sure somebody 
doesn't steal anything, that they can't do much of anything else 
either; and we get a system that is burdened and that does not create 
the efficiencies that we need to more forward. Once again, one of the 
greater issues that divide the chairman and myself is our philosophies 
on contracting. But I want to just commend him for working with us on 
this bill to try to get to where it is today. I know this is important 
to him.

Madam Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.