# FAILURE OF LEADERSHIP
## `959a87165b6a5a44cabc083143012b91`
`Mr. DODD — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. DODD. Mr. President, I wish to take a few minutes, if I may, 
before we conclude business here today, and then basically I guess we 
will be in either adjournment or recess until the first week in 
September. I wish to take a moment or so and review the events of the 
past number of weeks, culminating in the vote a week or so ago on the 
housing legislation. Of course, the Presiding Officer played a very 
important and supportive role, and I appreciate immensely his 
participation on the Banking Committee and the effort we made together 
to achieve what I think is a fairly historic piece of legislation.

The news from the housing and financial markets continues to be grim. 
Unfortunately, the new Case-Schiller Index--which most people are 
familiar with and which is used to determine the level of home values--
Case-Schiller data earlier this week shows that home prices were down 
15.8 Percent from May of last year, including a .9-percent, 1-month 
drop in the month of May alone. The 10-city price index, which dates to 
1988, dropped 16.9 percent, its sharpest decline on record since those 
numbers have been kept over the last 20 years. All 20 cities measured 
by the index showed annual declines in home values, and 10 cities have 
suffered double-digit percentage declines over the last year.

Job data is not any better, I am sad to point out. It shows a loss of 
50,000 jobs. The unemployment rate now is at 5.7 percent.

Earlier this week, the President signed the Housing and Economic 
Recovery Act. I am grateful to him for that signature. He earlier 
indicated he was going to veto the bill but changed his mind. I, for 
one, appreciate that


change of mind, because I think it is an important message to send to 
markets about the importance of this bill. I wish to quickly point out 
that the President didn't like every provision in this bill, nor did I 
necessarily, for that matter, but he signed it into law and for that we 
are grateful.

This legislation is a crucial response to the ongoing housing and 
economic crisis. Most of the legislation took effect immediately upon 
it being signed into law by the President. Already, the new regulator 
for the housing GSEs is on the job. We are not even a week into the 
bill and he is already there, preparing to write the numerous new 
regulations required by this law.

On Tuesday, before the President even signed the bill, I met with 
members of the oversight board of the new HOPE for Homeowners program: 
the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Chairman Bernanke; the Chairman of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Sheila Bair; the Secretary 
of the Treasury, Secretary Paulson; and the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development, Secretary Preston. We all met in my office as the 
oversight board. I urged them to get to work immediately. They assured 
me they were doing that. In fact, the very next day they were having 
the very first meeting of the oversight board. I commend them for that. 
Anywhere from 400,000 to 600,000 families can keep their homes if, in 
fact, that program works as we all hope it will.

Next week, my staff is meeting with HUD staff to push them to 
complete the regulations to get out the $3.9 billion in Community 
Development Block Grant funds. For Connecticut, as well as Pennsylvania 
and other States, these dollars could be very valuable in restoring 
neighborhoods and homes that have been foreclosed, getting them back on 
the market and producing those tax revenues every community needs in 
order to provide services to its people. The law requires HUD to have a 
formula for the distribution of this money ready in 60 days, and I 
intend to make sure this deadline is met, hence the reason for the 
meeting with the HUD staff.

The Housing and Economic Recovery Act has a number of provisions that 
will make a real difference in people's lives, and I want my colleagues 
to be able to explain them to their constituents as they travel around 
their States over the next several weeks. First and foremost, the bill 
establishes the HOPE for Homeowners Act to help 400,000 families keep 
their homes. It does so after asking both lenders and borrowers to make 
financial sacrifices, and it does so at absolutely no cost to 
taxpayers. This program will become effective on October 1.

In addition to providing a much stronger regulator, the bill 
increases the loan limits for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to $625,000. 
These GSEs--government-sponsored enterprises--along with the Federal 
Housing Administration, have been about the only sources of mortgage 
credit available to most Americans. This will make this credit more 
widely available to more families seeking to buy or to refinance their 
homes.

The bill modernizes and expands the Federal Housing Administration 
programs, raising the loan limits from $362,000 to $625,000, so that 98 
percent of the counties in our country and 85 percent of the population 
of our Nation will have access to this very critical program. FHA has 
proved its value over and over again, particularly in the current 
crisis, as it has continued to be a stable source of mortgage credit, 
even while many of the lenders have failed. By raising these loan 
limits, that credit line now becomes available, as I said, to more than 
85 percent of the population of our country.

The bill also includes a permanent, affordable housing fund financed 
by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This is the first time ever in the 
history of our Nation we have established a permanent affordable 
housing program. Ninety percent of these dollars will go for the 
construction of rental housing. This will take a little time to get in 
place and will not immediately come on line as other provisions of the 
bill will, but for the long-term needs of our country, including the 
ability to build affordable housing every single year as a result of 
GSE money, is going to provide great relief for those who can't afford 
a home, those who are starting out and need to have affordable rental 
housing.

The bill includes new protections for elderly homeowners taking out 
the FHA-insured reverse mortgages so they are not deceived into using 
the proceeds from these loans to buy expensive and needless insurance 
products. It will require mortgage brokers to be licensed. Again, that 
is a major reform in this legislation.

The bill expands the ability of the VA housing programs. It includes 
a number of provisions to help our returning veterans coming back from 
Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere to save their homes from 
foreclosure. Tragically, you would be amazed at how many of our service 
men and women serving in harm's way are at risk of losing their 
properties while they are serving overseas. This bill changes that by 
providing new housing benefits to our veterans.

The legislation includes $3.9 billion, as I mentioned, in Community 
Development Block Grant funds. These are dollars that go directly back 
to our communities to allow them to rehabilitate homes and revitalize 
neighborhoods that have been devastated by the foreclosure problem. 
Remember, 8,000 to 9,000 people every day end up in foreclosure--8,000 
to 9,000 homes every day. Certain neighborhoods in our States and in 
our cities have been literally devastated by foreclosures. These 
dollars will help to get those neighborhoods back on their feet.

Finally, the bill includes $150 million in counseling money to 
organizations out there trying to bring lenders and borrowers together.

Let me take advantage of this moment to urge my colleagues to do what 
I am going to be doing in my own State, and that is doing public 
service announcements, asking my media outlets on a daily basis to 
inform people as to what they can do. If they are delinquent in their 
mortgages, they may very well qualify for this program we have passed 
in the Congress, where they can save that house. It is not going to be 
free of charge; they are going to have some obligations to meet. It is 
not for everyone. You have to be an owner-occupier. It is not for 
speculative investments people have made. I urge people to call their 
banks, call one of these nonprofits, call the office of your 
Congressman or Senator, and they will tell you how to get in touch with 
them, but don't allow another month or two to go by on a delinquent 
basis. You may end up losing a home that you need to have, and it is 
possible to save that property if you will step up.

So I urge my colleagues, if they are interested in doing what they 
can for their constituents in the month of August, to find the time to 
talk about this program, let your constituents know it exists, urge 
them to step forward, urge your lenders to be in touch with borrowers 
to see if we can't avoid the kind of continuing foreclosure issues that 
are going to make our economic recovery difficult.

I will end on this note: The heart of our economic problems, whether 
it is the unemployment problems, the staggering lack of commercial 
development that is going on, the problem with student loans--all of it 
relates back to the foreclosure issue. The sooner we can stop this 
hemorrhaging of foreclosures in the country, the quicker we are going 
to get back on our feet economically. So this is not just about saving 
homes or keeping people in their homes; it is also dealing with the 
contagion effect that has spread over to other aspects of our economy.

I wanted to take advantage of these closing moments to talk about the 
bill, to talk about what is in it, and urge our colleagues--Democrats, 
Republicans--whether you are for the bill or against the bill, there is 
an opportunity now to make a difference for the people you represent.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor and note the absence of a 
quorum.