---
---

# None
## `95b293ad58081394ed361494843c6d75`
`Mr. INOUYE — 29 September 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, the pending business before the Senate is 
the DOD appropriations bill for fiscal year 2010. This measure contains 
approximately $636 billion, including nearly $130 billion to continue 
the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan and all around Southwest 
Asia.

It contains funds to pay our men and women in uniform, as well as 
funds to operate our forces and to take care of our wounded. It 
provides the money required to equip the warfighters and to develop new 
weapons systems so that they may be protected in the future.

Today is September 29. The fiscal year ends tomorrow. I believe all 
of us should know that. On Thursday, the Department of Defense will 
begin to operate on a continuing resolution, a stopgap measure required 
because the Congress has not completed action on its 12 appropriations 
measures.

I want to point out that the Appropriations Committee reported its 
first fiscal year 2010 bill in the Senate on June 18, more than 3 
months ago, and this last bill on September 10, nearly 3 weeks ago. All 
of the other bills were reported before the August recess.

However, because of the scheduling problems we have had, this Senate 
has passed just six bills. We have spent the better part of 7 weeks on 
the floor to pass these bills. I wish to note that in years past, most 
appropriations measures were taken up and passed by this body in 1 or 2 
days. Now it is nearly 1 week on each bill. The Senate is known for 
being a deliberative body, but this is the third day the Senate has 
been on this important bill, and up until a few minutes ago, not a 
single amendment had yet to be offered.

Moreover, at this point, only eight amendments have been filed, and 
we have seen this pattern week after week. Our colleagues are waiting 
days before getting serious about these bills. The impact of these 
delays is that the end of the fiscal year is upon us, and


we are nearly only halfway done completing Senate action on our bills, 
and only one of the 12 bills has reported out of conference committee.

At this juncture, I wish to note that we have had 12 measures. Of the 
12 subcommittees, 3 reported the bill to the Senate on a vote of 29 to 
1--not quite unanimous, 29 to 1. The remaining nine subcommittee bills, 
after due deliberation, debate, and discussion, were passed on to the 
Senate. The Senate committee reported to this Senate with a 
recommendation that it be passed by a vote of 30 to 0.

This measure before us was adopted by the Appropriations Committee, 
made up of liberal members, conservative members, middle of the road 
and whatever you want, men, women, by a vote of 30 to 0.

In January, when I became chairman of this committee, it was apparent 
to me that the Senate and the legislative branch were losing control 
over the budget process. We had not passed all of our spending bills as 
freestanding measures since 2005. We only accomplished that feat once 
during the past decade.

In many cases, we have resorted to large omnibus bills to complete 
our work. The Senate has not been allowed to debate or amend many of 
the measures that were passed. This is no way to run the government.

Vice-Chairman Cochran and I agreed to put a stop to this practice. We 
vowed to pass 12 bills and to send them to the President 
individually. We have passed those 12 bills in a timely fashion and 
presented them to the Senate. Our leaders fully supported us in this 
plan.


I remind my colleagues that the entire Republican caucus sent a 
letter to the majority leader urging him to follow this approach. But 
when it came to putting this in practice, instead of working to get 
this accomplished, we have been hamstrung by slow progress on each and 
every bill.

We are well aware that Members have amendments they wish to have 
considered on this and other appropriations bills. We understand that 
and have been waiting to debate them. Senator Cochran and I came to the 
floor Thursday night but were told there was nothing to do. We came 
here on Friday morning with the same results. We are back this 
afternoon, and we have one amendment.

The go-slow approach that has been taken by a few of our colleagues 
has put us in a position in which the government must now begin to 
operate on a continuing resolution. What does that mean to our 
agencies? It means they must throw out their plans for operations and 
streamline activities so that only the most essential operations are 
funded. Continuing resolutions will continue programs that have expired 
and are no longer needed, and the new programs that will replace them 
will not be in place. It means they must delay purchases until they are 
sure the resources they are seeking will be approved.

In the case of the Defense Department, it means they have to delay 
starting new weapons development and procurement programs. Some of my 
fiscally conservative colleagues might applaud this, thinking it means 
they are cutting spending. But, unfortunately, they are wrong. In fact, 
we are only running up expenses, as we follow penny-wise, pound-foolish 
practices which cost more in the long run than they save.

Senate rules are written to protect the rights of the minority and to 
ensure that legislation is carefully reviewed. But it is also true that 
when time is of the essence, the deliberative process is frequently 
turned on its head and complex matters rushed through with no time to 
debate or opportunity to offer amendments. Rather than delay these 
bills, which have minimal controversy, leaving the body no choice but 
to adopt expedited procedures to complete action, let's proceed apace 
and get this and the other five bills through the Senate as quickly as 
possible because it is the responsibility of the Congress to ensure 
that taxpayer funds can be expended efficiently by passing each of 
these appropriations measures without depending on continuing 
resolutions or omnibus measures.

I urge all of my colleagues to work with us so we can complete our 
work, the work of this Nation.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.