# CONCLUSION OF WRDA
## `95b30f36c9a10c816ab9924b034c15f3`
`Mrs. BOXER â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I want to take less than a minute to tell 
colleagues where we are. I thank the majority leader for his assistance 
on the WRDA bill. Our understanding is that we have a managers' package 
with several amendments. There may be only one or two that are 
contentious. Our goal for tomorrow, once we complete the Iraq votes, is 
to go to the managers' package without the contentious one or two 
amendments in it. By the way, I don't think any of them are 
contentious, but one Senator is saying they are.

We will adopt that managers' package hopefully by a voice vote, and 
then if it is necessary to have a recorded vote on these one or two 
additional amendments, we will do that and then move to final passage 
of WRDA, something we can be very proud of after 7 long years of not 
having a bill.

I thank my colleagues in advance for their cooperation.

To the Senator who may have a problem with one or two of these 
amendments, please take another hard look because they are 
noncontroversial, and I hope that Senator can join with us. We can 
finish this bill tomorrow in the very early afternoon or the late 
morning, and both sides can be very proud.

Again, this is a bill that is endorsed by just about everyone in the 
country.

I say to my colleagues, our intention is to conclude this bill 
tomorrow. Senator Inhofe and I are very strongly interested in 
concluding it tomorrow. The bipartisan members of the committee are 
very strongly interested.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.