# RECOGNIZING DENISE JORGENSEN, FOUNDER OF OPERATION MINNESOTA NICE
## `95b46c9f554db54fc8e65cdfc77f42a2`
`Mrs. BACHMANN — 22 May 2008`

---


Mrs. BACHMANN. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize Denise Jorgensen, 
founder of Operation Minnesota Nice, which provides comfort and support 
to the American soldier fighting for freedom abroad. It is vital that 
we not forget those defending our liberty, and Operation Minnesota Nice 
does its part by sending care packages to troops from Minnesota serving 
in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Kuwait.

Two months into its mission, Operation Minnesota Nice built its ranks 
up to ten volunteers


and assisted 17 soldiers spread throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. Today, 
they have 1,100 volunteers.

Perhaps the greatest contribution Operation Minnesota Nice has made 
to American soldiers is the inspiration they provide for others to 
start similar organizations. Floyd Olesen is one such individual. He 
and his wife started a local chapter of Operation Minnesota Nice in 
Becker, Minnesota, followed by another organization, Support Our 
Troops, headquartered in Elk River, Minnesota. Mr. Olesen clearly 
speaks with admiration for the work Denise Jorgensen has done.

Madam Speaker, we're able to enjoy the freedoms we have today because 
of the selfless sacrifices so many brave Americans made to secure them, 
and veterans in America today deserve our utmost respect. The acts of 
generosity of men and women like Denise and her army of citizen-
volunteers are just a sampling of the generous acts of kindness taking 
place across America to honor the bravest among us. Thank you for your 
dedication and sacrifice.
