---
---

# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `95bc814fc18180b7a0e1a9140d1c6166`
`Mrs. BOXER — 14 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. The reason I like to share these letters is that it shows 
the breadth of support this bill has. We know we come to the floor with 
a lot of legislation that is contentious, that is contentious between 
the parties, that is contentious with people throughout America, one 
group supports it. For example, the labor unions might but the bosses 
do not. This is a place where everybody comes together. I think that is 
very important.

So colleagues know what is happening today, you know we do not have 
votes today. But we are going to try to debate some amendments today. 
We have already debated the Feingold amendment, so that is ready to be 
voted on tomorrow. I understand that Senator Coburn is on his way over 
to offer at least the one--we are hoping three amendments. He can 
debate today, and then we can have votes on those as we agree between 
the sides. The way we have decided to handle this bill, because it has 
been such a delicate balance, is the following: We are working across 
party lines to come up with amendments we can agree to. We have taken 
the amendments that have been submitted thus far, and we are sort of 
categorizing those amendments in what is easy for us to agree to, what 
is more difficult. We are going to try to work through the easier 
amendments, and the more contentious ones we will have to have votes.

Now, what we call the big four of the committee, the Chairman of the 
full committee, the Chairman of the subcommittee, the ranking members 
of both the full committee and the subcommittee, we have made an 
agreement that we will oppose all amendments. Why are we doing this? 
Believe me, that is not an easy thing for us to do. We feel we have 
worked so closely, in a bipartisan fashion, we want to keep this bill 
totally bipartisan. We are trying to keep the most contentious items 
out of the bill to make sure it gets to the President's desk and he 
signs it.

Now, the good news is we have a score on the bill. That means how 
much the bill is scored at. It is $13.9 billion. It makes it lower than 
the House bill. This is very good news because we want to be fiscally 
responsible.

We also want to make sure all the projects in this bill meet certain 
criteria, that they have been studied, they have been looked at, that 
there is a fair cost share, unless there is an usual circumstance.

So Senator Inhofe has been very strong on conditions. I expect him to 
come to the floor very soon. He actually had a weekend trip to Iraq. I 
do appreciate the fact that he has gone and that he is going to be 
here, we believe, at about 3:30--as a matter of fact, in about 10 
minutes--at which point I hope he will make some of his comments on 
this bill.

But the way we have set the bill up is we now have the committee 
substitute pending in the form of an amendment. Leader Reid has sent 
forward two amendments, but they are not to the substitute bill, they 
are to the underlying bill about Iraq, as a way to expedite the 
consideration of the Iraq supplemental. He has done that with the 
knowledge of Senator McConnell so there are no surprises here. We have 
discussed this with Senator Feingold in terms of offering his 
amendment, which he already debated. That will be ready for a vote 
later. I hope we can set aside all these amendments and vote on them 
tomorrow morning at such time as the leader agrees.

At this point, since I think I have laid out the reason why we so 
much need this bill, after 7 long years of not having a WRDA bill, we 
so much need this bill, and we are so proud of the committee that they 
voted this bill out in a very harmonious way and that we are still 
working side by side, the majority and minority side, on crafting the 
amendments we need to push this over the finish line.

I look forward to the comments of Senator Inhofe. We also will, of 
course,


entertain the amendments of Senator Tom Coburn when he gets to the 
floor. I urge anybody else who wants to lay down amendments, please, 
you are absolutely welcome.

I understand Senator Landrieu would like the floor. So why don't I 
leave the floor with the understanding that if Senator Inhofe comes, 
would you wind down within 10 minutes so he can have the floor.

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1

























 Pacific Northwest






















Waterways Association,




















 Portland, OR, May 10, 2007.


 Hon. Barbara Boxer,


 Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, 




 Washington, DC


 Hon. James Inhofe,


 Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Environment and Public 




 Works, Washington, DC



 Dear Chairman Boxer and Senator Inhofe, We write to urge 


 your support for the reauthorization of the Water Resources 


 Development Act in 2007.



 WRDA is fundamentally important to the economic health of 


 our nation and particularly important to the states of 


 Oregon, Washington, Idaho and California. Our region depends 


 on international trade to a greater extent than any other 


 region in the United States. In Washington state, one in four 


 jobs are related to international trade. Cost-effective, 


 efficient, and environmentally sound trade and transportation 


 corridors are imperative to secure our place in the global 


 economy. Delay in WRDA means exacerbated backlogs which will 


 dull our competitive edge.



 The Pacific Northwest Waterways Association (PNWA) 


 membership includes nearly 100 organizations in Oregon, 


 Washington, Idaho and California. PNWA represents public port 


 authorities on the Pacific Coast, Puget Sound, and Columbia 


 Snake River System; public utility districts, investor-owned 


 utilities, electric cooperatives and direct service 


 industries; irrigation districts, grain growers and upriver 


 and export elevator companies; major manufacturers in the 


 Pacific Northwest; forest products industry manufacturers and 


 shippers; and tug and barge operators, steamship operators, 


 consulting engieneers, and others involved in economic 


 development throughout the Pacific Northwest.



 PNWA has a long history of working with the Committee and 


 the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on projects of regional and 


 national importance, sharing the challenge to maintain and 


 develop our transportation infrastructure. Our members wish 


 to thank the Committee for its support of Pacific Northwest 


 transportation programs and projects.



 Issues of particular concern to the members of our 


 Association follow:















minimum dredge fleet




 The federally-owned hopper drege fleet and the Corps of 


 Engineers' dredges Essayons and Yaquina, are particularly 


 important to the maintenance of ports and harbors in the 


 Pacific Northwest. The goals of Congressional actions in 


 1978, 1993 and 1996, which limited the utilization of the of 


 the federal dredge fleet and provided increased opportunity 


 for industry, have been meet.



 Since passage of the Energy and Water Appropriations Act of 


 1993, designed to increase competition in the dredge 


 industry, the number of private dredging contractors has 


 declined. This is of concern because the Northwest has unique 


 conditions such that, compared to other regions, Northwest 


 ports depend to a greater degree on hopper dredging and on 


 smaller class hopper dredges. The Government Accountability 


 Office found in a March 2003 to Congress (GAO-03-382) that 


 operating restrictions have imposed additional costs on the 


 Corps' dredging program, but have not resulted in proven 


 benefits to the taxpayer.



 PNWA strongly supports the language included in your bill 


 to lift operating restrictions from the Essayons and Yaquina, 


 which will enable the Corps of Engineers to utilize the 


 Essayons and Yaquina to the maximum extent possible to 


 maintain Northwest ports, harbors and channels, consistent 


 with the safe and efficient performance of their missions.













making section 214 permanent




 Section 214 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 


 (P.L. 106-541) provides the authority to the Secretary of the 


 Army to accept and expend funds contributed by non-Federal 


 public entities and to expedite the processing of permits. 


 Section 214 has allowed local governments to move forward 


 with vital infrastructure projects. By funding additional 


 staff to work on specific, time-intensive permits, existing 


 Corps staff members are able to process the significant 


 permit application backlog much more quickly. Funding for 


 additional Corps staff has resulted in a reduction of permit 


 wait times not only for the funding entity, but for any 


 individual or organization that makes an application with 


 that District of the Corps.



 This authority is currently scheduled to sunset on December 


 31, 2008. Though PNWA has been successful in working with 


 Congress to secure short-term extensions for several years 


 now, the time has come to give Corps regulatory offices as 


 well as the contributing entities the predictability that 


 would come with a permanent authority. PNWA strongly supports 


 language in your bill that would make Section 214 permanent.



 These provisions are strongly supported by PNWA's 


 membership, and are important to improve the efficiency and 


 cost competitiveness of Northwest ports engaging in 


 international trade. Additional provisions that are supported 


 by PNWA are included in the attached document, PNWA WRDA 


 Requests. We appreciate the Committee's and Congress' 


 attention to these important matters.





 Sincerely,


























Kristin Meira,


 Government Relations Director.