---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `95cf64572e8a5f3adb61d2819ad1e604`
`Mr. DODD — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. DODD. Madam President, I wanted to take a moment to explain why I 
voted against the Levin-Reed amendment on Iraq.

Let me say at the outset that I am second to none in this body in my 
opposition to the President's failed policy in Iraq. Yesterday I spoke 
in strong support and voted for the Feingold-Reid amendment that would 
have set forth a clear and enforceable deadline for ending our military 
involvement in the unwinnable civil war in Iraq. Sadly, only 27 of our 
colleagues joined with me in voting for the Feingold-Reid amendment.

I do not doubt the sincerity of Senators Levin and Reed in offering 
their amendment. These have been two articulate voices in the Senate 
calling for a change in our policy in Iraq for some time now. They like 
many of our colleagues have spoken out strongly about the failure of 
the President's policy and highlighted the fact that this policy has 
made our Nation less safe and has broken our military. But I believe 
this President will not admit failure or change policy unless we force 
him to, and the only effective instrument available to this Congress to 
do so is to exercise its power of the purse and cut off funding for 
this war, once our men and women in uniform have been safely withdrawn 
from Iraq. That is what the Feingold amendment would have accomplished, 
and that is what any amendment that I will vote for henceforth must do.

We all know this President doesn't understand subtlety. He has 
demonstrated time and time again that he doesn't respect this Congress 
or even the law. How many signing statements has this President issued 
in which he outlines ways to ignore or circumvent the laws written by 
this Congress? Too many. How many innocent Americans have been subject 
to illegal, warrantless wiretaps authorized by this President? Too 
many. How many falsehoods and deceits have been perpetrated by this 
President to justify his disastrous war of choice in Iraq? Too many.

There is only one way to force this President to change course in 
Iraq and that is to take away the money required for him to conduct 
that war. Iraqi officials need to be convinced as well that we truly 
mean it when we say it is time for them to take responsibility for 
their country and not count on us indefinitely to fight their fight for 
them.

If we are truly being honest with the American people when we say we 
are fighting to end this failed policy, we must do everything possible 
to do so. That is why while I respect the efforts of my colleagues 
Senators Levin and Reed, I felt compelled to vote against their 
amendment.

I hope the next time this body debates the war in Iraq, many more of 
our colleagues will join with Senator Feingold and me in voting for a 
clear and enforceable deadline to end our military involvement in Iraq 
and set on a new course that makes our Nation more secure and allows 
our broken military to begin to rebuild.

Too many days have passed and too many lives have been lost while 
this Congress has stood by and not acted. That must end.