# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--
## `95cf7a4786ac22ddcdfd15612025b950`
`Mr. COBURN — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. COBURN. We have before us almost a $60 billion emergency 
supplemental appropriations bill. This is about the eighth supplemental 
bill we have discussed since I have been in the Senate--some 
appropriate, some not.

But the thing that I think the American people need to know, given 
the fact that this week our debt will be $13 trillion--this week--and 
that does not count what we owe trust funds inside the government, 
account money we have stolen from Social Security that will have to be 
paid back; it does not count money that has been taken from the oil 
recovery fund that will have to be paid back; it does not count the 
money from the inland waterway trust fund and all of these other trust 
funds. That is $13 trillion outside of what we have borrowed from 
ourselves--$13 trillion.

So we have before us a bill that is an emergency supplemental 
appropriations bill, and I thought it would be interesting for the 
American people to see what the rules of the Senate say about what is 
an ''emergency'' because nobody can say the war is an emergency. Since 
September 11, 2001, there has been no emergency other than the fact 
that we knew we were going to war. And the fact is, we have known that 
at least for the last 5 or 6 years. Nobody can say that.

But when you look at the definition we are supposed to follow--our 
own rules--about emergency designations, there are five 
characteristics, and those five characteristics are, one, it is 
necessary, it is essential, and it is vital. Well, some of this bill is 
necessary, some of it is essential, and some of it is vital--not all of 
it is by any means.

No. 2: Sudden, quickly coming into being, and not building up over 
time. Well, this bill certainly does not meet that requirement, except 
for a very small section of it.

An urgent, pressing, and compelling need requiring immediate action. 
There is no immediate action here on anything, except maybe the FEMA 
portion for both the upper Northeast and the flooding and Nashville, 
TN, and its flooding. But we have $900 million sitting in FEMA right 
now that has not been spent that we can start spending, so we don't 
have to pass $5 billion right now.

Unforeseen, unpredictable, and unanticipated. Well, the war certainly 
wasn't unforeseen, it certainly wasn't unpredictable, and it certainly 
wasn't unanticipated. We have known it. So it certainly doesn't meet 
that definition.

It is not permanent, it is not temporary in nature.

So we have what we are supposed to be following, and I would portend 
that 98 percent of this bill doesn't meet the requirements of being an 
emergency designation. Yet why are we calling it an emergency 
designation? There is one real reason for that; that is, we don't have 
to confine it in with the total amount we are authorized to spend. This 
is outside of what we are going to spend. It is $60 billion that we are 
going to borrow. We are going to borrow it. We are going to borrow it 
from the children of the people who are in Afghanistan and Iraq who are 
fighting this war. The people in this body aren't going to pay it back. 
We are going to kiss it goodbye and we are going to say: Here is your 
present, grandchildren. Here is a present for the kids of the 
warfighter who is over there today, who is sacrificing, his family is 
sacrificing, her family is sacrificing. But we are going to borrow it 
from them.

And it is not that we haven't done it. We made a big fanfare about 
that we were going to institute pay-go; that we were not going to 
violate pay-go; that pay-go was going to force discipline on us. So we 
passed a statute, and the President had a big signing--except here is 
what has happened since we have signed it.

It was signed into law on February 12.

On February 24, we violated pay-go. We said the rule doesn't apply; 
we have a need; we are going to spend $46 billion. So we spent $46 
billion outside of the budget. We borrowed $46 billion. Oops.

March 2. We don't have the courage to eliminate lower priority parts 
of the government. We borrowed another $10 billion.

All of a sudden, on March 3, then we borrowed $99 billion. Pay-go 
didn't count. We just said: We waive pay-go. Sixty votes of the Senate. 
We have no fiscal discipline--$99 billion.

April 14. We borrowed $18 billion. Did it again.

So if you add those up--and that doesn't count the last one we did. I 
will bring a more accurate chart tomorrow when I talk about the rest of 
these amendments. But so far, we have borrowed $173 billion, when we 
said we are not going to borrow money anymore because we are going to 
have pay-go that says that will force the discipline on us to put lower 
priorities off the spending line, to put higher priorities on.

So just since February 12--it is now late May--we have borrowed $173 
billion. We are going to add $60 billion here, and we have a tax 
extender package that is coming with another $230 billion. That is $563 
billion since February 12 that we are going to spend money--I 
understand the majority leader is on the floor. Would you like time, 
Mr. Leader?