---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `95dba22affb7473057061dcb27b0521d`
`Mr. ROCKEFELLER — 7 April 2008`

---


Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation 
designed to fix the personnel laws that cover the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, VA, health care professionals, including registered 
nurses, physicians, physician assistants, dentists, podiatrists, 
optometrists, and dental assistants. I am proud to have the support of 
my colleagues, Senators Webb, Brown and Mikulski. This legislation is 
the companion bill to the pending House bill sponsored by House 
Veterans' Affairs Chairman, Congressman Bob Filner.

Our goal is to support the VA health care professionals who work hard 
to provide quality care to our veterans. The bill seeks to return to 
the partnership agreement of the 1990s between VA management and 
workforce. Flexible scheduling and basic fairness from management are 
key issues to recruit and retain a strong workforce.

Almost 22,000 of the registered nurse caring for our veterans will be 
eligible to retire by 2010. Even more stunning is that 77 percent of 
all resignations of nurses occur within the first 5 years. This is a 
clear signal that more must be done to retain VA nurses and quality 
health care staff. Anyone involved in health care understands the 
important role that nurses play in the quality of care and patient 
satisfaction.

The VA has several options. VA could invest more of its precious, 
limited funding on contract care--or, as we recommend, support this 
legislation and restore the partnership that will encourage our nurses 
and other health care professionals to stay in the VA system to care 
for our Nation's heroes.

West Virginia has four VA Medical Centers, each with a dedicated team 
of health care professionals. I have met with the nurses and other 
professionals to hear their requests for flexible scheduling. I believe 
that we should restore the management partnership and work hard to 
retain our dedicated team of health professionals for our aging 
veterans, and those newly returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with both 
physical and mental wounds of war that deserved experienced VA care.