# ECONOMIC OBSERVATIONS BY THE 43 MEMBER STRONG, FISCALLY CONSERVATIVE  DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `95dc25f99492542d8e0df147272a3da9`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. I hear the other side, the minority 
party in this Chamber, talk about the defeatist Democrats, the 
retreatist Democrats, whatever terminology they want to use. I find 
that somewhat repulsive that there are those who would assume that 
Democrats want to lose a war.

Let me tell you something. I come from Tennessee. Andrew Jackson in 
the war of 1812 and 1814, when he had that battle, the war was over 
with. There had already been a surrender of the British. He still 
fought that war, and I believe he was a good Democrat. In World War I, 
a fellow named Woodrow Wilson, I happen to believe he was a Democrat, 
he fought the war until it was over with. We won that war.

In World War II, we went to war and took 16 million people. We call 
them the Greatest Generation. They came back home, and they started 
having children like rabbits in the spring. That is 77 million folks we 
call baby boomers. They give us a huge workforce in this country.

Then we went to Korea, and let me finish, in World War II, we lost 
Roosevelt during that time. Harry Truman had the forces. We had invaded 
Normandy and had conquered the Germans and had conquered Europe. We had 
already put in place the invasion Army that was going into Japan. Harry 
Truman changed course. You need to replay that message to the White 
House, Harry Truman changed course. He didn't put the invasion force in 
the ships. He dropped a couple of bombs, a horrible occurrence that 
happened, but it saved millions of lives and stopped the war. Then we 
occupied Germany and Japan, and they now have two thriving democracies 
in the world because they chose that type of government.



Then in Korea we had a fellow named Truman who got us engaged there 
as well, happened to be a Democrat. But the person who quit fighting 
was Eisenhower, a Republican.

In the 1970s, in Vietnam, the President at that time was a Republican 
named Richard Nixon, when we left Vietnam. We can talk about Democrats 
not following through. We have never lost a war when we have had 
Democrats in the White House. Andrew Jackson, when he was in New 
Orleans, a general, we couldn't keep him from fighting and conquering 
General Packingham.

I am tired about this talk of the Democratic Party not being strong 
on national defense. Baloney. That is not the case. Let's stop it. 
Let's start talking about how we win, and how we stay in Iraq, and that 
becomes winning for us.

This resolution that we vote on tomorrow still allows several 
thousand people to stay in Iraq after we have taken our soldiers out of 
the kill zone and the battle zones in Iraq.

We still will be there with several tens of thousands of troops that 
will be training, providing security, and protection, quite frankly, 
for many of the folks in Iraq. We will also keep tens of thousands of 
troops there that will seek out and search the al Qaeda cells if they 
exist in Iraq, or any terrorist groups that exist in Iraq.

So I get kind of unhappy when I hear the other side start talking 
about what great success we are having. It is my hope that this search 
would work, because then we in America can claim a huge successful 
victory in Iraq.