---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `95f2b684d797c3c9c82f153e445083bd`
`Mr. REED — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, Senator Levin, for 
yielding time and also for being the principal author of the Levin-Reed 
amendment, the amendment we are considering today. There will be a vote 
shortly. The amendment recognizes that we have responsibilities in 
Iraq, but it also recognizes the constraints we face in Iraq.

The first principal constraint is a lack of sufficient forces to 
maintain the current force level there. That alone must drive a change 
in mission for our military forces in Iraq. But it also recognizes the 
fundamental dynamic in Iraq, which is a political dynamic. It is a 
political dynamic that must be achieved, not by the United States but 
by Iraqi political leaders. When the President announced the surge in 
January, he made it very clear that the whole purpose was to provide 
these leaders with the political space and the climate to make tough 
decisions. Frankly, those decisions have not been made.

What we have gained on the ground has been tactical momentum. Any 
time you insert the greatest Army and Marine Corps and Air Force and 
Navy in the world into a situation, you are going to make progress--and 
we have. But the real question there is, Will that progress last when 
we inevitably begin to draw our forces down, as General Petraeus has 
announced? I think most people would suggest probably not.

So we are left with the reality on the ground and the reality here at 
home--waning support for a policy that the American people believe is 
misguided and has been incompetently executed by the administration. We 
have to change the mission, and the core of the Levin-Reed amendment is 
to change that mission, to go away from an open-ended ''we will do 
anything you want, Mr. Maliki, even if you don't do anything we want'' 
to focused counterterrorism, training Iraqi security forces, and 
protecting our forces. It also recognizes that we have to have a 
timeframe in which to do those things.

I am encouraged and I think all should be encouraged that a year ago 
when we started talking about initiating withdrawal of forces from 
Iraq, that was an item which was not only hotly debated on the floor 
but severely criticized.

General Petraeus has told us he will propose and will probably 
implement a withdrawal of forces before the end of this year. That is 
part 1 of the Levin-Reed approach. The second is to begin a transition 
to these missions, and we hope that can be accomplished in a very short 
period of time. Finally, we would like to see these missions fully 
vetted, fully set out and implemented on the ground, moving away from 
the open-ended approach within a fixed period of time. This approach, 
together with a very aggressive diplomatic approach, we believe is the 
key to contributing not just to the stability of Iraq but to the long-
term interests of the United States in the region and the world.

I hope we are able to agree to this amendment, to pick up support. We 
have listened to General Petraeus. Frankly, he has in part agreed with 
us, in terms of beginning withdrawal. He has suggested, but not 
definitively, that some transition sometime down the road must take 
place. But I think--surprisingly to me, at least--when asked what 
should we do in the next year, he essentially said: I can't tell you 
until next March, and then I will tell you. We have to have a plan, a 
strategy for this country that certainly goes beyond next March. The 
world and our strategic interests will not start and stop in March. 
They are continuous, they are challenging, and we have to face the best 
course of action going forward. We believe--I believe strongly--this is 
the best course of action.

This war in Iraq has cost billions of dollars. More profoundly and 
more fundamentally, it has taken the lives of over 3,700 American 
service men and women. It has injured countless. I think the American 
public is genuinely not only concerned but in a literal sense 
heartbroken about what is going on. They are asking us--indeed, 
demanding of us--if the President is unwilling to act, that we act to 
change the course, to provide a strategy and a policy that is 
consistent with our interests, with our resources, and with our ideals 
that will help us move forward.

I hope in the next several minutes as this vote comes to the floor 
that the message of the American people will be heard and heeded and 
that we will adopt the Levin-Reed amendment.

I yield my time.