---
---

# None
## `95f4b7325b1e396547d1001924cb46c1`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman.

I want to speak specifically to this amendment that addresses a 
duplicitous employment practice by private security contractors in 
Afghanistan. Last year, four employees of Paravant, a Blackwater 
subsidiary, were involved in a shooting incident where a number of 
Afghan civilians, one was killed, others were wounded. A subsequent 
investigation found that Paravant employees were not classified as 
employees but were, instead, classified as independent contractors. 
Then it was revealed that Paravant classified them as independent 
contractors in order to avoid taking responsibility for their actions.

Raytheon, who was the main contractor on the Afghan Border Police 
contract, attempted to sever ties with them, but they were rebuffed 
because this company claimed to have no responsibility for or oversight 
over the four in question, even though they had hired them and were 
paying for them. This can't be permitted. There has to be 
responsibility for private contractors. They can't be free agents doing 
what they want over there. They are recognized as working for the 
American Government. We need to make employers responsible for their 
employees.

This is a duplicitous method of avoiding taxes, but most importantly, 
direct responsibility for the actions of private security contractors. 
It needs to be ended. And I support the other amendments that address 
the accountability and oversight over private security contractors.