---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `96044e46a276372159d55c092a96e411`
`Mr. CASEY — 6 June 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I will not read all of it, but I wanted to 
read the description of his sacrifice and the reason he was awarded the 
Congressional Medal of Honor, so rare for any soldier to be so awarded. 
Here is part of the official report. This is December 4, 2006.




 During the course of the patrol, an unidentified insurgent 


 positioned on a rooftop nearby threw a fragmentation grenade 


 into the Humvee. Without hesitation or regard for his own 


 life, McGinnis threw his back over the grenade, pinning it 


 between his body and the Humvee's radio mount. McGinnis 


 absorbed all lethal fragments and the concussive effects of 


 the grenade with his own body. McGinnis, who was a private 


 first class at the time, was posthumously promoted to 


 specialist. Specialist McGinnis's heroic actions and tragic 


 death are detailed in the battlescape section of this website 


 and in his Medal of Honor Citation.


He was a young man from Knox, PA, 19 years old, when he gave, as 
Abraham Lincoln also said, ''The last full measure of devotion to his 
country.'' And I have used that line a lot because it applies so well 
to those who have given their lives in Iraq or Afghanistan and other 
places around the world, but at no time--at no time--that I have used 
that line from Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address has it applied 
better than it does in this instance, for Ross. A McGinnis, 19 years 
old, born June 14, 1987, in Meadville, PA, though he grew up in Knox, 
PA. He was a 2005 graduate of Keystone Junior-Senior High School, and 
his parents were with President Bush this week when he was awarded the 
Congressional Medal of Honor.

So we are thinking of him today, on D-day, but we should make sure 
those memories we have of his service, and all those who have served in 
any conflict, be the inspiration for our hard work in the Senate, to 
make sure we are doing everything we can to earn the valor they gave so 
heroically for our country. And that has to be about making sure our 
troops are given what they need when they are on the battlefield, but 
also ensuring that when they come home, the help doesn't stop at the 
shoreline; that they are given the best health care and the best 
educational opportunities.

So, Mr. President, I will conclude with this: We pay tribute to those 
who have served our country, especially today, in remembering those who 
served on D-day, but in a special way we are thinking of Ross A. 
McGinnis, his service, his sacrifice, and we are praying for his 
family.
















 Exhibit 1










 The Story of PFC Ross A. McGinnis



1st Platoon, C Company, 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment, 2nd 







 Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division




 Spc. McGinnis' dedication to duty and love for his fellow 


 Soldiers were embodied in a statement issued by his parents 


 shortly after his death:



 ''Ross did not become our hero by dying to save his fellow 


 Soldiers from a grenade. He was a hero to us long before he 


 died, because he was willing to risk his life to protect the 


 ideals of freedom and justice that America represents. He has 


 been recommended for the Medal of Honor . . . That is not why 


 he gave his life. The lives of four men who were his Army 


 brothers outweighed the value of his one life. It was just a 


 matter of simple kindergarten arithmetic. Four means more 


 than one. It didn't matter to Ross that he could have escaped 


 the situation without a scratch. Nobody would have questioned 


 such a reflex reaction. What mattered to him were the four 


 men placed in his care on a moment's notice. One moment he 


 was responsible for defending the rear of a convoy from enemy 


 fire; the next moment he held the lives of four of his 


 friends in his hands. The choice for Ross was simple, but 


 simple does not mean easy. His straightforward answer to a 


 simple but difficult choice should stand as a shining example 


 for the rest of us. We all face simple choices, but how often 


 do we choose to make a sacrifice to get the right answer? The 


 right choice sometimes requires honor.''



 Ross Andrew McGinnis was born June 14, 1987 in Meadville, 


 PA. His family moved to Knox, northeast of Pittsburgh, when 


 he was three. There he attended Clarion County public 


 schools, and was a member of the Boy Scouts as a boy. Growing 


 up he played basketball and soccer through the YMCA, and 


 Little League baseball. Ross was a member of St. Paul's 


 Lutheran Church in Knox, and a 2005 graduate of Keystone 


 Junior-Senior High School.



 Ross's interests included video games and mountain biking. 


 He was also a car enthusiast, and took classes at the Clarion 


 County Career Center in automotive technology. He also worked 


 part-time at McDonald's after school.



 His mother, Romayne, said Ross wanted to be a Soldier early 


 in life. When asked to draw a picture of what he wanted to be 


 when he grew up, Ross McGinnis, the kindergartner, drew a 


 picture of a Soldier.



 On his 17th birthday, June 14, 2004, Ross went to the Army 


 recruiting station and joined through the delayed entry 


 program.



 After initial entry training at Fort Benning, Georgia, 


 McGinnis was assigned to 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry 


 Regiment in Schweinfurt, Germany. According to fellow 


 Soldiers, he loved Soldiering and took his job seriously, but 


 he also loved to make people laugh. One fellow Soldier 


 commented that every time McGinnis left a room, he left the 


 Soldiers in it laughing.



 The unit deployed to Eastern Baghdad in August 2006, where 


 sectarian violence was rampant. Ross was serving as an M2 .50 


 caliber machine gunner in 1st Platoon, C Company, 1st 


 Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment in support of operations 


 against insurgents in Adhamiyah, Iraq.



 According to the official report, on the afternoon of Dec. 


 4, 2006, McGinnis' platoon was on mounted patrol in Adhamiyah 


 to restrict enemy movement and quell sectarian violence. 


 During the course of the patrol, an unidentified insurgent 


 positioned on a rooftop nearby threw a fragmentation grenade 


 into the Humvee. Without hesitation or regard for his own 


 life, McGinnis threw his back over the grenade, pinning it 


 between his body and the Humvee's radio mount. McGinnis 


 absorbed all lethal fragments and the concussive effects of 


 the grenade with his own body. McGinnis, who was a private 


 first class at the time, was posthumously promoted to 


 specialist. Spc. McGinnis's heroic actions and tragic death 


 are detailed in the battlescape section of this website and 


 in his Medal of Honor Citation.



 Army Decorations: Medal of Honor (to be presented to Tom 


 and Romayne McGinnis at a June 2, 2008 White House Ceremony), 


 Silver Star (awarded for valor exhibited during the events of 


 Dec. 4, 2006, pending processing and approval of Medal of 


 Honor), Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Army Good Conduct Medal, 


 National Defense Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Global 


 War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service Ribbon, Overseas 


 Service Ribbon, and Combat Infantryman Badge.