---
---

# None
## `960baa00fa02b6f8ca2e52e1867cb1db`
`Mr. DURBIN — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I come to the floor this afternoon to 
rise in support of the Specter-Leahy amendment, No. 286, which I hope 
we will have an opportunity to consider very shortly.

This amendment, which Senator Specter has addressed on the floor 
during the course of the day, is long overdue.

Last fall, Congress enacted a deeply flawed law called the Military 
Commissions Act. The law gives any President the power to imprison 
people indefinitely without charging them with any crime. It takes away 
fundamental due process as protected by the Constitutionally-protected 
right of habeas corpus. It allows our Government to continue to hold 
hundreds of prisoners for years without ever charging them with any 
wrongdoing.

I was one of 34 Senators who voted against the creation of this 
Military Commissions Act. I hope this year that Congress will begin to 
undo the damage to fundamental American values that was done by this 
legislation.

The amendment offered by the Senator from Pennsylvania and the 
Senator from Vermont, the Specter-Leahy amendment, is an excellent 
place to start. This amendment would repeal the provision of the 
Military Commissions Act that eliminated habeas corpus for detainees.

Habeas corpus is the legal name for a procedure that allows a 
prisoner to challenge their detention in court. It is a basic 
protection against unlawful imprisonment. It is one of the bedrock 
principles that separates America from many other countries around the 
world.

Over 700 lawyers from the Chicago area sent me a letter last year 
strongly opposing the elimination of habeas corpus for detainees. Here 
is how they explained the importance of this basic fundamental right, 
and I quote:




 The right of habeas corpus was enshrined in the 


 Constitution by our Founding Fathers as the means by which 


 anyone who is detained by the Executive may challenge the




 lawfulness of his detention. It is a vital part of our system 


 of checks and balances and an important safeguard against 


 mistakes which can be made even by the best intentioned 


 government officials.


Why is this administration so interested in protecting itself from 
the judicial review of our courts? Because the courts have repeatedly 
ruled that the administration's policies have violated the law and our 
constitution.

After the September 11 terrorist attacks, the administration 
unilaterally created a new detention policy for America. They claimed 
the right to seize anyone, including an American citizen in the United 
States, and to hold them until the end of the war on terrorism, 
whenever that might be.

They claimed that even an American citizen who is detained has no 
rights. That means no right to challenge their detention, no right to 
see the evidence against them, no right to even know why they are being 
held. In fact, an administration lawyer claimed in court that detainees 
would have no right to challenge their detention even if they were 
being tortured or summarily executed.

Using their new detention policy, the administration has detained 
thousands of individuals in secret detention centers around the world. 
Only time will lead to the complete disclosure of what they have done. 
The most well-known, Guantanamo Bay, is only one of those centers. Many 
have been captured in Afghanistan and Iraq, and people who never raised 
arms against us have been taken prisoner far from the battlefield, in 
places such as Bosnia and Thailand.

Who are the detainees in Guantanamo Bay? Well, back in 2002 then 
Defense Secretary Rumsfeld described them, and I use his words, ''the 
hardest of the hard core.'' He went on to call them, ''among the most 
dangerous, best trained, vicious killers on the face of the earth.'' 
Those are the words of Secretary Rumsfeld.

Well, I went to Guantanamo last July. There were some 400 detainees 
being held. There have been many others who have gone through that 
camp. Hundreds of people have been detained at Guantanamo, many for 
years, without ever being charged, and then were released.

Imagine, if you will, that you were scooped up by some government 
official, transported a thousand miles away to this rock in the middle 
of the Caribbean, this high-temperature, high-pressure location, and 
then held literally for years without ever being charged with any 
wrongdoing.

Every American would agree with what I am about to say. Every 
dangerous person should be arrested and detained to protect America 
from terrorism. When we have good cause to believe that a person 
threatens our country, I believe it is our right, when it comes to our 
basic security, to detain that person and to hold that person as long 
as they are a threat to our country. In this case, however, hundreds of 
individuals were taken from their homes, their businesses, their 
families, their countries, and transported to Guantanamo, and held 
without charges, sometimes for years, before they were released.

According to media reports, military sources indicate that many of 
the detainees had no connection to al-Qaida or the Taliban and were 
sent to Guantanamo over the objections of intelligence personnel who 
ultimately recommended they be released. It was a mistake. They never 
should have been held. They should not have been detained. Years were 
taken off their lives, while the image of Guantanamo has been created 
across the world.

One military officer said:




 We are basically condemning these guys to long-term 


 imprisonment. If they weren't terrorists before, they 


 certainly could be now.


That quote comes from one of our military officials.

Based on a review of the Defense Department's own documents, Seton 
Hall University Law School reported that only 5 percent, 1 out of 20, 
of the detainees at Guantanamo were captured by U.S. forces, while 86 
percent were taken into custody by Pakistani or Northern Alliance 
forces at a time when the United States was paying huge amounts of 
money for the capture of any suspected Arab terrorist.

The Defense Department's own documents revealed that the large 
majority of detainees never participated in any combat against the 
United States on a battlefield, and only 8 percent, that is fewer than 
1 out of 10, of those being detained were even classified as al-Qaida 
fighters.

In 2004, in the landmark decision of Rasul v. Bush, the Supreme Court 
rejected this administration's indefinite detention policy. The Court 
held that detainees at Guantanamo have the right to habeas corpus to 
challenge their detentions in Federal court. The Court held that the 
detainees' claims that they were detained for over 2 years without any 
charge against them and without any access to counsel, and I quote the 
Court, ''unquestionably described custody in violation of the 
Constitution, or laws or treaties of the United States.''

That is why the amendment being offered by the Senator from 
Pennsylvania and the Senator from Vermont is so critically important. 
What we have enshrined in the Military Commissions Act is a violation 
of the fundamental values of our country.

As I have said before, and will repeat, anyone who is a danger to 
this country should be stopped, detained, arrested, and imprisoned, if 
necessary, before they harm anyone in our country. Those who are 
detained should be detained for cause. There should be a reason. There 
should be a charge against them. They should have the most fundamental 
access to justice, which we preach around the world; that they can 
defend themselves, know what they are being charged with, see the 
evidence being used against them, and have the right to counsel so that 
they can express their innocence in the most effective way.

How did the administration react to the Supreme Court decision in 
2004? Instead of changing its policies to comply with the Constitution, 
the law, they came to the Republican-controlled Congress at that time 
and demanded that habeas corpus for detainees be eliminated.

This isn't about the rights of suspected terrorists. It is about who 
we are as Americans. Eliminating habeas corpus is not true to our 
values. Sadly, it creates an image of America that causes problems even 
for our troops in the field.

Recently, I went on a trip to South America with Senator Harry Reid, 
our majority leader in the Senate, and we talked to leaders in 
countries in South America. I can recall one leader saying that he 
wanted the United States to remove a base from his country. He said: We 
don't want to have another Guantanamo here in our sovereign country.

Guantanamo has become an image which needs to change. Even the 
President has called for the closing of Guantanamo. Yet what the 
Congress has done is to not only keep Guantanamo in business but to 
keep it in business with rules that are inconsistent with our 
Constitution and our fundamental values.

Tom Sullivan is a friend of mine and a prominent attorney in Chicago. 
He was a former U.S. attorney, a lead prosecutor for our Government in 
that area. He served in the Army during the Korean war.

For nothing, on a pro bono basis, Tom Sullivan has taken on cases of 
several Guantanamo detainees. He has practiced law for more than 50 
years. He believes, even as a former professional prosecutor, that 
habeas corpus is a fundamental bedrock of America's legal system 
because it represents the only recourse available when the Government 
has made a mistake, detained a person and charged them with something 
of which they are not guilty.

ADM John Hutson, another man I have come to know and respect, was a 
Navy Judge Advocate for 28 years. Last year, he testified in the Senate 
Judiciary Committee hearing on the Military Commissions Act. Here is 
what Admiral Hutson, former Navy Judge Advocate, had to say about 
eliminating habeas corpus, and I quote:




 It is inconsistent with our own history and tradition to 


 take this action. If we diminish or tarnish our values, those 


 values that the Founders fought for and memorialized in the 


 Constitution and have been carefully preserved in the blood 


 and honor of succeeding generations, then we will have lost a 


 major battle in the war on terror.


Admiral Hutson concluded:




 We don't need to do this. America is too strong. Our system 


 of justice is too sacred to tinker with in this way.


He also testified that eliminating habeas corpus really puts our own 
soldiers at risk. Remember, John Hutson


has given his life to our country's military, and here is what he said:




 If we fail to provide a reasonable judicial avenue to 


 consider detention, other countries will feel justified in 


 doing exactly the same thing. It is our troops who are in 


 harm's way and deserve judicial protections. In future wars, 


 we will want to ensure that our troops or those of our allies 


 are treated in a manner similar to how we treat our enemies. 


 We are now setting the standard for that treatment.


I have heard arguments on the Senate floor: Oh, it is going to glut 
the courts of America if the 400 detainees at Guantanamo have some 
rights, if they have an opportunity to question the charges that have 
been brought against them, if they can use habeas corpus. I do not 
believe that is true and even if it was it is a small price to pay, a 
small price for America to pay to respect the most fundamental right 
that we believe to be part of our system of justice.

Will there be abuses? Well, I am sure there will be. There have been 
in virtually all the laws we have enacted. But we will be able to say 
at the end of the day that even in the midst of a war on terror, even 
as we feared what might happen tomorrow in the wake of 9/11, that 
America never lost its way in terms of its fundamental values and 
principles.

The Military Commissions Act, which passed this Senate, unfortunately 
is a step in the wrong direction. I fully support the Specter-Leahy 
amendment. We should honor American values and protect our brave men 
and women in uniform by restoring the right of habeas corpus, and I 
urge my colleagues to support this amendment.

Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that my name be added as a 
cosponsor to that amendment.