# SGT. MICHAEL M. KASHKOUSH POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `961476b40a3d8d18f2438ab2c60de40e`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
might consume.



As a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I stand with my colleagues from the Buckeye State of Ohio in 
consideration of H.R. 5400, which renames the postal facility in 
Chagrin Falls, Ohio, in honor of Sergeant Michael M. Kashkoush.

H.R. 5400 comes to us with widespread support from the Ohio 
congressional delegation, yet the measure was first introduced by my 
colleague, Representative Steve LaTourette, back on February 12, 2008. 
The measure was taken up by the Oversight Committee on February 26, 
2008, where it was passed by the panel by voice vote.

H.R. 5400 calls for honoring Sergeant Kashkoush's service to our 
country by naming the post office in his hometown of Chagrin Falls 
after him.

Assigned to the 3rd Intelligence Battalion, III Marine Expeditionary 
Force, Okinawa, Japan, Sergeant Michael M. Kashkoush succumbed to his 
death on January 23, 2007, as a result of fatal wounds received while 
conducting combat operations in Iraq's Anbar province.

Born and raised in Chagrin Falls, Ohio, Sergeant Kashkoush was a 
graduate of Chagrin Falls High School, where he was instrumental in 
taking the school's football and wrestling teams to winning seasons 
before electing to enlist in the Marine Corps after graduation. 
Sergeant Kashkoush was only 24 years old when he died in the line of 
duty as a counterintelligence/human intelligence specialist attached to 
the 2nd Battalion, 8th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division.

Mr. Speaker, in honor of Sergeant Kashkoush's sacrifice and service 
to America, let us pass without reservation H.R. 5400.

I reserve the balance of my time.