---
---

# IRAQ FUNDING
## `96253acecb6c599beb44cfa7e2cdba0a`
`Mr. WARNER â€” 11 May 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, if I may engage our respected leaders in a 
colloquy regarding the passage last night of the House supplemental. I 
am speaking for, I think, a number of Senators on both sides of the 
aisle, who have some thoughts with regard to how we proceed on the 
funding issue. I personally--speaking for myself--believe we should 
have no bifurcation of the funding and that it should all be acted upon 
at one time. I am very anxious that the tentative schedule of the 
leadership is before Memorial Day. That is most important.

I hope some of us could address the Senate and the leadership 
regarding the subject of benchmarks. I read with great interest that 
the President is openminded on the question of benchmarks. I believe it 
is important that, in September, General Petraeus is going to give us a 
report, together with the U.S. Ambassador, and presumably the 
Secretaries of State and Defense will join in that very important 
report to the Congress--indeed, to the whole country--with regard to 
the status of things in Iraq in September. I do believe there is such a 
rapidly unfolding situation over there--we don't know from day to day 
how to anticipate certain things. Earlier this morning, General Mixon 
reported that he didn't have sufficient forces, U.S. forces and 
presumably Iraqi forces, to perform his mission in Diyala Province.

I am hopeful, speaking for myself, that we can put in some language 
tied to benchmarks by which the President, before we go out on the 
August recess, would report to the Nation and to the Congress on his 
judgment as to whether there is progress on the benchmarks and whether 
he feels that in the July timeframe some change in strategy must be 
brought about in order to achieve the goals of the original strategy 
laid down on January 10 of this year.

My language would not have any obstruction to the flow of funds, but 
it would simply keep the Nation and the Congress fully informed of his 
judgment, together with his senior advisers, at that critical time 
before we go out on the August recess. I believe we have a 
responsibility, first and foremost, to the men and women in the Armed 
Forces, their families, and to the country for the Congress to watch 
this situation very closely and not defer until the September timeframe 
the concentrated judgment that would


be brought to bear on the receiving of the report in September.

To what extent can you advise us as to the process that might be 
followed in order to expeditiously get to the conference but at the 
same time either the conferees be informed of the views of others or we 
have some mechanism by which to address the issue?