# None
## `9633aa90558fe7da7f6eaf99e8aac644`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 3 May 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, as a proud member of the 
Congressional Black Caucus, I rise to express my profound 
disappointment that the President lacked the vision, wisdom, and 
respect for the will of the American people to sign H.R. 1591, the 
''U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability 
Act.'' This legislation, which was crafted under the combined 
leadership of the Speaker and Democratic Caucus, Appropriations 
Committee Chairman Obey and Defense Subcommittee Chairman Murtha, with 
substantial input from the Congressional Black Caucus, provided a glide 
path to the day when our troops can return home where we can ''care for 
him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and orphan.'' But it 
did more than that. It also would help to repair the damage to 
America's international reputation and prestige and bring long overdue 
oversight, accountability, and transparency to defense and 
reconstruction contracting and procurement.

Madam Speaker, the American taxpayers have paid nearly $400 billion 
to finance the misadventure in Iraq. I stand with the 3,222 fallen 
heroes who stand even taller in death because they gave the last full 
measure of devotion to their country. And I am reminded that while it 
is the armed forces which do the fighting, it is a Nation that goes to 
war. And it is the costs to the Nation that I wish to speak about 
today.

Madam Speaker, it must be noted that the cost of the war in Iraq to 
the United States has also been high regarding the new and neglected 
needs of the American people. Americans have been exceedingly tolerant 
and patient with this Administration's handling of the situation in 
Iraq. We have postponed, foregone, or neglected needed investments in 
education, infrastructure, housing, homeland security.

That is why it is right and good and just that the new Democratic 
majority included in the supplemental appropriations bill for Iraq and 
Afghanistan $4.3 billion for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) 
disaster recovery grants, including $910 million to cover the cost of 
waiving the matching fund requirements in the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 174 
(Public Law 93-288) (Stafford Act) for state and local government 
meaning the Federal government will finance 100% of the grants.

Waiving the Stafford Act's matching fund requirement is critically 
important to the Gulf Coast states devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita. Based on my multiple listening trips to New Orleans and the Gulf 
Coast region, and my numerous meetings and discussions with government 
officials at all levels in the affected states and with survivors of 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, many of whom now are relocated to my 
Houston congressional district, the most important lesson I have 
learned is that the Stafford Act is in its present form is simply 
inadequate to address the scale of devastation and human suffering 
wrought by a disaster the magnitude of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. I 
thank Mr. Obey and Mr. Murtha for responding to concerns I expressed to 
President Bush about the need to modernize the Stafford Act so that it 
remains relevant to the 21st Century.


I believe the Stafford Act must be amended to grant the Federal 
Government explicit authority and flexibility to provide long-term 
recovery assistance to communities devastated by disasters of the 
magnitude of Hurricane Katrina and Rita. Such authority currently does 
not exist and the Stafford Act's emphasis on temporary assistance to 
affected individuals and communities is simply inadequate to address 
the scope of human suffering we witnessed last August and which is 
still with us


today. I will continue my efforts to modernize the Stafford Act. But I 
very much approve of the nearly $1 billion included in the bill to 
waive the matching fund requirements for hard-pressed State and local 
governments coping with emergencies of the scale of Hurricane Katrina.

Social Services Block Grant (SSBG) funding has been extended to 
September 30, 2010. SSBG funding provides critically needed social 
services, including programs for mental health, child welfare, and the 
treatment of addictive disorders.

Also allocated is $1.3 billion dollars for east and west bank levee 
protection and coastal restoration systems in New Orleans and 
surrounding parishes.

There is included $25 million for Small Business Administration (SBA) 
disaster loans and $80 million for U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) tenant-based rental assistance. The supplemental also 
adds $400 million to restore partial cuts to the Low Income Home Energy 
Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This funding will bring much needed relief 
to many States that are running out of LIHEAP funds just as many 
utility shut-off moratoriums are set to expire.

The supplemental adds $750 million to the State Children's Health 
Insurance Program (SCHIP) to ensure continued healthcare coverage for 
children in 14 states that face a budget shortfall in the program. By 
taking prompt action now, these States will not be forced to stop 
enrolling new beneficiaries or begin curtailing benefits.

Finally, Madam Speaker, the supplemental provided $30 million for K-
12 education recruitment assistance; $30 million for higher education 
assistance; and $40 million in security assistance for Liberia. It also 
includes an additional $1 billion to purchase vaccines needed to 
protect Americans from a global pandemic. Development of production 
capacity for a pandemic vaccine must be accelerated so that 
manufacturers can quickly produce enough quantities to protect the 
population.

In conclusion, Madam Speaker, let me say that although the bill may 
not be the best I might have hoped for, it was the best that can be 
achieved at this time, this moment in history. I applaud the leadership 
of the Congressional Black Caucus for its critical role in helping 
craft legislation that represents a change of course and a new 
direction in our policy on Iraq and that is responsive to the unmet and 
pressing needs of the American people.

