# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `963ab0a6b56f2cfb97f8e7670ae603dd`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I very much thank the senior and 
esteemed leader, Mr. King from New York, for yielding to me.

I want to start a point here, Mr. Speaker, that I would ask all 
Members to focus on to understand where we really sit in history, in 
this course of history. If you would go back to the most successful 
military known in history for the longest period of time, spanning 
centuries, it was the Roman legions. And the Romans had a statement 
called ''nosce hostem,'' which, of course, is Latin for ''know thine 
enemy.'' We need to do that here in this Congress. We are part of this 
effort, of course. Know thine enemy. Von Clausewitz wrote the book on 
war, his treatise on war, that everyone goes to because he boiled it 
down to understandable principles, certainly ''know thine enemy,'' but 
his point was the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and 
ability to conduct war.

Now, if you know your enemy and you are going to destroy their will 
and ability to conduct war, you wouldn't just go after their ability, 
you would go after their will as well. So that has been true throughout 
history. And if you were charged with the task of defeating the 
preeminent world's Superpower in, say, about the year 1963 under 
President Kennedy, ''How do you defeat undefeated America?'' was the 
question that was presented to the Vietnamese.

Enter General Vo Nguyen Giap. He was the general that orchestrated 
the Vietnamese effort throughout the war in Vietnam. He certainly 
understood history. He understood the Roman legions. He understood 
nosce hostem. He also understood that you had to defeat the will and 
the ability of the United States if you were going to defeat them. He 
knew that he couldn't defeat our ability. He had to attack our will. 
And that is what happened.

And he wrote the book. This is the primer, ''How Do You Defeat the 
United States of America?'' by General Vo Nguyen Giap. How We Won the 
War is the title of it. And in the primer he said, ''The beginning was 
when the United States failed to succeed in a complete victory in 
Korea, then we knew the will of the United States was weakened. On page 
18 he talks about how they went after the will of the United States 
through public opinion, how they supported it and encouraged the 
antiwar activists because they knew they couldn't win militarily. So 
their front on the war that had the greatest chance for success was 
with the will of the American people. Here is the primer.

Our enemies read this primer, Mr. Speaker. They understand this. And 
one of our enemies over there is Moqtada al-Sadr, who laid it out for 
us when he said on June 11, 2004, and I saw this on al-Jazeera TV when 
I was in Kuwait, ''If we continue attacking Americans, they will leave 
Iraq the same way that they left Vietnam, the same way that they left 
Lebanon, the same way that they left Mogadishu.''

Mr. Speaker, that is the message that his people heard. That is the 
message we should hear. I have heard it. I have put it on this floor 
many times. A couple nights ago I put Moqtada al-Sadr down here on the 
floor. In the night he went off to Iran to join up with the people who 
have been supporting him. He understands this.

I will tell you this. If this resolution passes and if Mr. Murtha and 
the people who are working with him are successful in a slow bleed of 
our resources, then what you will see, Mr. Speaker, is you will see 
Osama bin Laden say, If we keep attacking America they will leave 
Afghanistan the same way they left Vietnam, Lebanon, Mogadishu, and 
Iraq. That is what is coming. That is what is being perpetrated by the 
rhetoric here on this floor. That is what is being staged in 
appropriations bills that we will certainly see coming after this 
resolution.

The destiny of America is put at risk, Mr. Speaker, and this says to 
all of our enemies it is easy to take on the United States if you can 
just get Congress to lose their will, if you can get them to lose their 
spine.

So I would then simply close with the reiteration of a request made 
from a major from Kentucky whom I met with in my last trip over there 
in Iraq. He loves his kids and his cows and he loves God and I know he 
speaks the truth. He said, ''We have everything we need. So when you 
pray for us, pray for the American people. Pray they understand the 
threat and pray they do not lose their resolve. We will not lose 
ours.''