---
---

# ARMY SPECIALIST JOEY CANTRELL
## `963bc091ebeafa53d73547d815c8f6b5`
`Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky — 24 April 2007`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

One of the most solemn duties that we can have in the House of 
Representatives is to recognize the sacrifice, devotion and service of 
those who protect this Nation.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the memory of Army Specialist Joey 
Cantrell, a soldier from Westwood, Kentucky, who recently lost his life 
fighting in Taji, Iraq, serving with the Army's Second Battalion, 
Eighth Cavalry Regiment.

Specialist Cantrell graduated from Fairview High School in 2002 and 
was a celebrated athlete both on the football field and around the 
track. His football coach and mentor, Fairview school superintendent 
Bill Musick, told a local paper, ''You always noticed Joey Cantrell 
because of how he presented himself. He was a sharp kid.'' Joey 
overcame adversity, achieved academic excellence, was a leader and a 
tough competitor in athletics, and won the friendship of many. When it 
came to serving, his coach shared with me that Joey felt it was a call 
to go into the military.

Recently, I had the opportunity to visit with his mother Sondra 
Adkins. His family and friends remembered his warm smile, thoughtful 
nature and his ability to excel at everything he did. Joey Cantrell 
will be deeply missed by all who knew him. His mother shared that Joey 
believed in what he was doing and gave his life doing what he wanted to 
do.

Today, as we honor Joey's memory, our Nation grieves with his mother 
and his family. We are deeply indebted to Joey and thankful for his 
service. Soldiers like Joey Cantrell make me proud to be an American.
