# EXECUTIVE SESSION F_____
## `9641eabd777cec8ad2902808ec31ef5a`
`Mr. LEVIN — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I thank the Presiding Officer.

Mr. President, during his testimony at his confirmation hearing, 
General Petraeus volunteered to provide honest, straightforward reports 
to the Congress on a regular basis in recognition of Congress's 
oversight responsibilities. We are counting on him doing so. He may 
even report to us over a TV network, but he made a commitment. He 
volunteered a commitment. This was not something we had to press him to 
do.

He said: I am going to regularly report to Congress on whether this 
new strategy is working and whether these so-called benchmarks which 
the Iraqis have allegedly agreed to, representing their commitments--
when will they produce troops; will those troops, in fact, be subject 
to political pressure; will the Iraqis come through with the 
commitments relative to the financing of reconstruction? He is going to 
report to us on all the commitments which the Iraqis have made, all the 
benchmarks which are supposed to be met. I take him at his word. He is 
an honorable man, and that is an important representation, again, made 
at his initiative.

I believe General Petraeus is highly qualified for his promotion to 
the grade of general and his assignment as our senior officer in Iraq 
at a very critical and dangerous time. That position needs to be 
filled. General Casey is retiring. I will vote for his nomination, and 
I urge our colleagues to do the same.

I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time.