# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `96491f0cc48829493033e45738694736`
`Mr. DENT — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DENT. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this House 
Concurrent Resolution 248 that directs the President to remove U.S. 
Armed Forces from Afghanistan within 30 days of adoption of this 
resolution unless the President determines that it is not safe to 
remove U.S. forces before the end of the 30-day timeline. But even if 
there is an identified danger, U.S. forces would still have to be 
removed by December 31.

Really, here is the catch: There is a clear and present danger in 
removing our men and women from the field while they are engaged in the 
first major assault of President Obama's reaffirmed counterinsurgency 
strategy in Afghanistan.

But here is another danger: damaging the morale of the troops who 
sacrifice their safety and well-being to fight to protect our homeland, 
our freedoms, by not providing them with the support and resources they 
need to complete their mission.

This is a very dangerous business, moving troops out of a country. I 
have sat with Secretary Gates on more than one occasion over the years 
talking about withdrawing troops, in this case from Iraq, and how 
complex a situation this is and how dangerous it is and the logistical 
realities of moving this many people safely.

But don't take my word for it. I think we should also listen to the 
words of our Commander in Chief, President Barack Obama, who, on 
December 1 in his address to the Nation, said, ''I am convinced that 
our security is at stake in Afghanistan and in Pakistan. This is the 
epicenter of violent extremism practiced by al Qaeda. It is from here 
that we were attacked on 
9/11, and it is from here that new attacks are being plotted as I 
speak.'' President Barack Obama's words.

He goes on. ''This is no idle danger. No hypothetical threat. In the 
last few months alone, we have apprehended extremists within our 
borders who were sent here from the border region of Afghanistan and 
Pakistan to commit new acts of terror, and this danger will only grow 
if the region slides backwards and al Qaeda can operate with impunity. 
We must keep the pressure on al Qaeda, and to do that we must increase 
the stability and capacity of our partners in the region.'' Again, that 
was President Obama.

He goes on in another address on March 27 of 2009, where he made 
another statement. He says, ''And if the Afghan Government falls to the 
Taliban or allows al Qaeda to go unchallenged, that country will again 
be a base for terrorists who want to kill as many of our people as they 
possibly can.''

Secretary Gates, a very fine Secretary of Defense, and I am pleased 
President Obama has kept him on, said on February 5 of this year, 
''This is a critical moment in Afghanistan. I am confident that we can 
achieve our objectives, but only if the coalition continues to muster 
the resolve for this difficult and dangerous mission.''

Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, on September 23, said, ''Some 
people say, well, al Qaeda is no longer in Afghanistan. If Afghanistan 
were taken over by the Taliban, I can't tell you how fast al Qaeda 
would be back in Afghanistan.'' Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

I also want to mention what General Petraeus has said.