---
---

# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `964963fbaccb520f1d965bb6d9ed7fde`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 11 January 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Ms. Waters for her 
leadership on the Out of Iraq Caucus and for her words here today. I 
want to thank all of my colleagues for participating in this Special 
Order this evening.

We are all here because we love this country, and we are all here 
because we are outraged by the Bush policy in Iraq. We believe our 
country is much better than what is on display in Iraq today. We want 
to change the policies of this country to make our country better, to 
make it reflect what this country really is all about, the finest and 
the best traditions of the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, on November 7, George Bush lost the election. The 
American people made it very clear that they wanted a change in 
direction in Iraq. That election was about Iraq, and the American 
people all across this country made it clear that they want a change in 
direction.

Last night the President of the United States gave a speech, and he 
made it clear that he doesn't care what the people of this country 
believe. He is ignoring the message and the statement of the mid-term 
elections.

You know, I had hoped, notwithstanding all of the media hype leading 
up to the President's speech last night, I was hoping maybe, just maybe 
he was going to do the right thing. That instead of announcing tens of 
thousands of more American troops in Iraq, that he was going to 
announce that he was going to withdraw tens of thousands of American 
troops from Iraq and begin the U.S. withdrawal and begin the end of the 
U.S. occupation of Iraq. He did not do that.

So what do you do, Mr. Speaker? What do you do when you have a 
President of the United States who ignores the advice of his generals 
and military leaders who all told him that an escalation of U.S. forces 
was a bad idea? What do you do, Mr. Speaker, when you have a President 
of the United States who ignores the work of the bipartisan Iraq Study 
Group?

The group's report by all accounts says our policy in Iraq has been a 
failure, and it suggested that we find a way out. What do you do when 
you have a President of the United States who ignores that? What do you 
do when you have a President of the United States who ignores the will 
of the American people, who ignores the election last November 7? What 
do you, Mr. Speaker?

Well, all of us here have expressed our concern and our outrage over 
this policy, most of us since before the war again. But what do you do 
now? We can give more speeches, which we have been doing. We are 
sending more letters and issuing more press releases.

But, Mr. Speaker, when you have a President of the United States who 
is behaving as arrogantly as this President is with regard to this war, 
then Congress must take action. Congress must condition funding. 
Congress must withhold funding. Congress must cut funding if that is 
what it takes to end this war.

Now, there are those who say if you do that, you are going to 
shortchange our troops. I hear that from the Bush administration and 
from some colleagues here in this Congress. Let me tell you what 
shortchanges our troops is when we keep them in harm's way in a war 
that makes no sense, when we have them serve as referees in a civil 
war, when we put more and more of our troops, when we escalate our 
involvement in this war. That shortchanges our troops.

The fact of the matter is this administration has been shortchanging 
our troops for a long, long time, Mr. Speaker. When wounded veterans 
come back, when people come back from this war with post-traumatic 
stress syndrome and they can't get the care that they need, that 
shortchanges our troops.

I don't think it shortchanges our troops to reunite our soldiers with 
their families and their loved ones back in the safety of this country. 
That doesn't shortchange our troops. That actually is what our troops 
deserve.

I think we need to understand that all this rhetoric, the constant 
invocation of 9/11, the constant admonitions that somehow we are not 
being true to our troops if we talk about cutting aid, withholding 
funds, stopping funding for this war because this President won't deal 
with us, we need to put that rhetoric aside.



This President will not listen to the American people. Put the 
rhetoric aside. We have to do what is right.

Let me tell you one final thing, Mr. Speaker. All of us who serve in 
this Congress do not have to wake up in harm's way. We are not on the 
front lines in Iraq. I would like to have an amendment introduced some 
day to a bill that says all these people who want to go to war all the 
time, they should be the ones who lead the charge. Let those who are up 
here constantly calling for ''stay the course'' and ''let's continue 
the current policy,'' let them go and fight.

The time has come to end this war. That is what the American people 
want, and this Congress has the guts to do it. I thank the gentlewoman.










Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
