# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `96525c5c915a682b98791e7a76bd284a`
`Mrs. BOXER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I wanted to give Senators and staff an 
update on where we are with the WRDA bill now that we have voted on 
these various Iraq resolutions.

Where we are now is that our work is almost done on this bill. We are 
down to the final amendments that are in the managers' package. One of 
our colleagues, Senator Coburn, is looking at about three or four of 
these amendments that he has some problems with. We are very hopeful we 
can work with him to resolve those questions because we have many items 
in the managers' package. We think about 10 or 12, or more, actually. 
So he is looking at four, and we are working with him to resolve them.

If we can resolve that, it would be a wonderful thing because we 
could get done with this bill. Senator DeMint has two amendments which 
we are looking at on our side, and we think we can work with those 
amendments. We think we can reach agreement on those amendments.

So here is where we are. This bill is being slowed down because of 
four particular items in the managers' package that Senator Coburn is 
looking at right now and we are working with him. If we can resolve 
those questions, and we can certainly resolve Senator DeMint's 
amendments, we will be done with this bill, and we can roll them all 
into a managers' package, either do them by voice vote or have a 
recorded vote and then a final passage vote, which, believe me, would 
be welcome news for the workers and the businesses of our great 
country.

If we cannot resolve these remaining matters, we are very willing to 
have votes on those questions and we would like to start that this 
afternoon. We will just work our way through the six votes and see how 
it all comes out, but we are hopeful. We are going to give it another 
hour, hour and a half to talk to colleagues. I didn't want colleagues 
to think that Senator Inhofe and I weren't continuing to focus on this 
bill. We are. We are working our caucuses in an effort to get this 
done.

I am going to relinquish the floor, and we will be back as soon as we 
have some agreement on these remaining amendments.

I see the distinguished ranking member on the floor now, so we will 
have a chance to collaborate on where we stand, and I yield the floor 
for my colleague to speak at this time.