---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `9658c81d5944c6318e1be8c3222f8b49`
`Mr. BLUNT — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. BLUNT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and for 
his hard work on this and other work that we do here.

I believe, Mr. Speaker, that the debate on this emergency spending 
bill has provided the service of reminding Americans exactly what is at 
stake in Iraq, the prospects of victory, the consequences of defeat, 
and a better appreciation of how it is we do everything we possibly can 
to secure and support our men and women in harm's way.

House Republicans, Mr. Speaker, asked the Speaker and her colleagues 
on the Appropriations Committee to produce a clean and straightforward 
supplemental emergency bill, a package worthy of our troops' hard work 
and dedication, with help we could deploy to the front lines as quickly 
as possible.

What we got instead was a poorly assembled wish-list of nonemergency 
spending requests wrapped in a date-certain declaration of defeat, a 
confirmation to our enemies that if they hang on just a bit longer, we 
will be out of their way soon.

I happen to believe the stakes in Iraq are too high and the 
sacrifices made by our military personnel and their families too great 
to be content with anything but success. But the bill brought before us 
today isn't written with victory in mind. Its prevailing tone is one of 
defeat, and its abiding premise is that America's mission in Iraq is 
over and our troops' continued status there is without merit. And just 
to drive the point home, it forces on General Petraeus and his 
commanders on the ground constant status and reporting requirements, 
designed not only to undermine their basic operational authority, but 
to hasten a withdrawal of troop support from the region.

When the leaders of the majority were offered the opportunity for a 
secure briefing from General Petraeus a few days ago, they said no. 
When the majority was offered a briefing from Secretary Gates, 
Secretary Rice and Secretary Pace in the last few days, they said no 
again.

Does anyone think that demoting our best generals to administrative 
assistants represents our best chance of achieving our goals in this 
region? Does anyone believe our commanders in the field have been given 
too much authority and too much flexibility to get the job done?

Ultimate victory in Iraq is a proposition that is far from 
guaranteed, Mr. Speaker, but ultimate failure in Iraq is, if this 
attempt to co-opt the essential command-and-control responsibilities of 
our commanders in the field ever actually becomes law.

Mr. Speaker, this emergency supplemental includes billions of dollars 
in nonemergency spending, offered as an excuse to vote for a bill that 
guarantees our defeat in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I urge a ''no'' vote on this bill and ask my colleagues to join me in 
sending a message of strength and resolve to our friends and our 
enemies and, most importantly, to our troops in the field.