# None
## `966229b0f00404374b8cf998e3adedce`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I know you did not hear me. I do not 
wish to keep the Finance Committee from meeting, except that we are 
being held for a very important debate, and if we are going to be held 
all night, it is the view of this side of the aisle that we should keep 
our focus on this very important issue.

I rise today because this is such an important issue. I don't think 
that any Member on this side of the aisle or the other side of the 
aisle is insincere in their views about this issue. However, I do think 
the disagreements are real, and it is so important the Senate do the 
right thing.

We have before us, of course, the Levin-Reed amendment that would set 
a deadline and cut and run from Iraq without regard to anything that is 
happening on the ground, including the Commander in Chief saying: For 
God's sake, don't do this.

So here we are debating this issue, but I think we have to also talk 
about the other amendments that are on the floor because we are now 
seeing a different variety. I think there is an attempt by many of our 
Members to send a message. None of these amendments would ever become 
law. I think everyone acknowledges that fact. So every


amendment is meant to send a message.

What is the message? It appears that the basic message is to tell the 
President to change strategy or to tell the generals what to do or to 
micromanage the war. All different kinds of messages are being 
proposed. But the bottom line is we cannot tell the Commander in Chief, 
the President, nor the commander on the ground, General Petraeus, how 
to do the jobs we have asked them to do.

We heard from General Petraeus what the new strategy will be. I keep 
hearing people say we need a new strategy, we need a new plan, a new 
plan. We are in a new plan. Yet the Senate is saying, when the new plan 
is in its infancy, when the surge of 30,000 troops has been completed 
within the last 2 weeks, and yet we are pulling the rug out from under 
the new plan. It doesn't make sense.

I think all these amendments, all these message amendments are the 
wrong thing at the wrong time.

We cannot be the greatest country on Earth and say: Don't trust us if 
you are our ally and don't fear us if you are our enemy, and that is 
exactly what we would be doing if we leave Iraq because Congress sets a 
deadline regardless of what is happening on the ground in Iraq.

This is about a war on terror and protecting our freedom. This is not 
about Iraq in a bubble. It is about making sure we kill terrorism in 
the world before it ruins everyone's way of life and takes freedom from 
everyone.

If I believed we were just talking about Iraq and we could isolate 
Iraq, that would be a very different issue. This is about making sure 
Iraq does not become a stronghold for terrorists. This is to make sure 
al-Qaida cannot take over Iraq, terrorize the people as they have done 
in Afghanistan for years, have the oil revenue that would feed their 
terrorism and spread it throughout the world. We are fighting al-Qaida 
in Iraq.

General Petraeus came to the Senate and put forth a different 
strategy. I asked him about it because I was very concerned about this 
strategy. I asked him why he thought this would work, why putting our 
troops outside the green zone and outside the protected areas embedded 
with Iraqis would make a difference. He talked about the need for the 
counterinsurgency measures to go to them and also to win over the 
neighborhoods.

It is said by those who are on the ground and have the expertise that 
it is working, that in the al-Qaida strongholds, the people have turned 
against al-Qaida and they are helping America, and the tribal 
chieftains in that area are helping Americans.

I met with a group of veterans today who have come back from Iraq. 
They were so strong and so firm. It was uplifting to talk with them, 
just as it is uplifting to talk with any of our Active-Duty military. 
But to talk to those who have had the boots on the ground in Iraq and 
Afghanistan who know what is happening, one cannot fail to believe we 
have to give this a chance, even if the armchair generals back here in 
Washington have misgivings.

It is so important that despite the sincerity of so many of my 
colleagues in trying to put forward a different kind of a message, a 
message to the President--do a plan; we are not going to make you 
implement the plan, but we are going to make you do one--all the way up 
to the amendment that we are debating and on which we are going to have 
a vote tomorrow which is to cut and run.

That is the variety of message amendments that we have pending on 
this bill, and none of those is the right message. Look at the 
consequences. Look at the consequences if we leave without making sure 
Iraq is stable.

Today, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense announced 
there is going to be a rejuvenation of the talks that include all the 
people in the region. That is so important. This is something I have 
talked about for a long time. No longer can the neighbors to Iraq sit 
back and watch what is happening there and criticize America or anybody 
else and not take a hand in helping to solve the problems in this area. 
No longer can they sit back and grade America when it is they who have 
the very most at stake with an Iraq that might become a haven for 
terrorists. That is in no one's interest in that region, not even 
people who want the destruction of America, such as the President of 
Iran. It is not in his interest or Iran's interest to have a terror 
stronghold in the Middle East. It is certainly not in the interest of 
the moderate Arab nations that are trying to have stabilization in that 
region.

Here we are with a new strategy that is in the process of being 
implemented, and we have the Senate debating whether to set a deadline 
and leave, regardless of what has happened on the ground.

This does three bad things. No. 1, it dishonors those who have 
already died or been maimed. I met people today. I have met people at 
Brook Army Medical Center in San Antonio who have been maimed. I have 
met with the loved ones of people who have been lost in this war 
already. If we cut and run, it is akin to saying there wasn't an 
underlying cause for which they died. That is not true. There is an 
underlying cause. It is a fight for freedom every bit as much as any 
war which we have ever fought because if we let a caliphate take over 
the Middle East, we are not going to live in freedom. That is the 
purpose the terrorists have, and we cannot let them succeed. We cannot 
dishonor those who have died for this cause.

No. 2, it puts every one of our troops who have boots on the ground 
today in Iraq and Afghanistan in harm's way that is a much greater harm 
than they face in the war itself. It puts a bull's-eye on them because 
the enemy knows they are leaving, so why not do worse things to our 
troops, why not get rid of them? That has happened before in retreats 
in wars.

That would be the worst thing we could do, is to say to the enemy: 
This is when we are leaving, this is when we are going to draw down, 
this is when the troops go away. I cannot imagine we would do such a 
thing.

And No. 3--and this is the policy that the Senate must stand for, and 
that is to stand for the integrity of America, the integrity of the 
greatest country on Earth--that we will be a formidable enemy and a 
reliable ally, that we will not flinch when times get tough. It is a 
legitimate argument about why we got here or when we should have had 
more troops or how the war has been run up to now. That is legitimate. 
We can talk about that, and it is a legitimate area to debate. But what 
is not legitimate is--because it is a very tough time--that we would 
say times are too tough; America must leave. What kind of honor would 
that bring on our country and this United States Senate? None. It would 
not bring honor on this country to cut and run because times are tough.


This is a fight for freedom. This is a fight to live in peace and 
harmony with people of different backgrounds and different faiths. This 
is taking a stand for freedom because America is the country that has 
the commitment and the capacity to fight for freedom in the world.

If we cut and run because times are tough, who would stand for 
freedom? Who would have the capability to stand for freedom?

It would be unthinkable to go against the general who is in charge in 
Iraq, the head of the CIA, Michael Hayden, who has said also that ''if 
we withdraw from Iraq prematurely it would become a safe haven, perhaps 
more dangerous than the one al-Qaida had in Afghanistan.'' We would be 
going against one of the wisest Secretaries of State we have ever had 
in our history, Henry Kissinger, who said:




 Whatever our domestic timetables, the collapse of the 


 American effort in Iraq would be a geopolitical calamity.


It would go against the wisdom of wars all the way back to the 
beginning.

During the Civil War, General Ulysses S. Grant, who did lead the 
Union forces to victory, said:




 Experience proves that the man who obstructs a war in which 


 his Nation is engaged, no matter whether right or wrong, 


 occupies no enviable place in life or history.


Mr. President, this is not a new concept. This is a concept that has 
been tested time and time and time again, and retreating without honor 
is not an option for the greatest country on earth.

I hope the Senate will not look at the election next year or the 
political whims, even though I know they are strong, and I know 
sometimes it is


tough to stand up and do what is right for the long term when the short 
term is very tough. But this is the Senate. We are the elected leaders 
of the States of our country. And they look to us for leadership. We 
cannot do less. Any of these amendments that are message amendments 
that will never become law, and we know it, are an undercutting of our 
troops when they have boots on the ground.

No matter how sincere the effort of all the authors of these 
amendments are, and I know they are sincere, I know they are looking 
for a way to send that right message, there is no message in these 
amendments that can be right for our country. It is very simple and 
very clear. We are the United States of America, and the world expects 
our country to lead, to be strong, to be unwavering, and to be as good 
as our military, which everyone acknowledges is the best in the world. 
I just hope the Senate can meet that test.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.