# PROGRESS IN IRAQ
## `9689b696cff6f123448a60e0821f9219`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I want to take a few minutes to talk about 
the testimony given yesterday by General Petraeus and Ambassador 
Crocker regarding our progress and challenges in Iraq. I think it is 
important for the American people to understand and for our colleagues 
to understand that the surge of troops in Iraq that began in the early 
part of last year was a corrective measure, and that from the fall of 
Baghdad until January 2007, it was clear to me, Senator McCain, and 
others that our strategy during that period of time was not working; 
that we had too few troops; that the country got into a lawless state; 
that political progress and economic progress was virtually 
nonexistent. There was a paralysis when it came to the ability to 
govern in Baghdad: The economy was stalled; violence was spreading 
throughout the country to the point, in 2006, that the al-Qaida flag 
flew over parts of Anbar Province.

So there was a moment of reckoning. The President had a decision to 
make after the Republican losses in November of 2006. It was widely 
held that the reason Republicans lost in the midterm elections was 
because of Iraq policy. Secretary Rumsfeld resigned and the President 
had a choice. One of the choices would have been to adopt the strategy 
of withdrawing at a faster rate, the theory being to put pressure on 
the Iraqi military and government to perform better because they were 
not doing well because they were relying too much upon us. The other 
theory was that the security environment is so out of control and so 
tenuous that you will never have military, political, or economic 
progress until you get better control over security.

Well, the surge argument, advocated primarily by Senators McCain, 
Lieberman, and others, won the day with the President. So it was clear 
that we needed to change strategy at the end of 2006, and we did. There 
is an ongoing debate about whether that was the correct choice. To 
evaluate fairly the testimony of Ambassador Crocker and General 
Petraeus, I think one has to look at what happened from January of 2007 
up to today and planned out to July 2008.

During that period of time, there was a surge of American combat 
forces into Iraq of 30,000 additional combat troops. The security 
argument prevailed over the withdrawal argument. The troops were 
deployed in a significantly different way. Not only were there more of 
the troops, which was a requirement, General Petraeus came up with a 
new strategy. He got the troops out into the communities, at security 
stations, where American soldiers served with Iraqi soldiers and 
policemen within the community. That built a sense of confidence we had 
not seen before. At the end of 2006, something very startling happened 
in Anbar Province. Sheik Sattar, one of the young sheiks in the Anbar 
Sunni region, after part of his family was murdered by al-Qaida, came 
to an American colonel and said: We have had it, we want to fight with 
you. We want these guys out of Anbar. We don't want to be dominated by 
al-Qaida in Iraq. The commander seized the moment and put a couple of 
tanks around the guy's house. From that action by the colonel and the 
addition of combat forces, Anbar Province is a completely different 
place.

If you ask me what is the most successful event of all within the 
surge period of time, I would argue it is the uprising in Anbar 
Province by Iraqi Sunni Arabs against the al-Qaida presence in Anbar. 
They have rejected the al-Qaida agenda and joined forces with the 
coalition forces, American forces, and we have literally delivered a 
punishing blow to al-Qaida in Anbar Province--to the point now that 
Ramadi and Fallujah are some of the safest places in all of Iraq.

So for the American public to grasp what is going on here, I think 
you have to understand this one fact. When Arab Muslim people say no to 
al-Qaida and we will fight bin Laden, his agents, and sympathizers, 
that is a good day for America. That is what the war is going to be 
about conventionally, in terms of how we win. If the people in the 
Mideast turn on al-Qaida and they say no and shoulder the burden of 
fighting and create a community in place of al-Qaida's agenda that is 
more tolerant, more open, that will allow the Shia and the Kurds to 
live in peace; that will not try to pass on the al-Qaida philosophy and 
agenda to everybody surrounding the region. So this is incredibly good 
news from the surge, with the increased combat capability and the 
overplaying of al-Qaida's hand in Anbar; they were incredibly vicious 
to the people.

I have been to Iraq 11 times, and the stories that come out of Anbar 
Province while al-Qaida dominated the region are heart-breaking and 
bone-chilling. Now we have, in April of 2008, a completely changed 
Anbar Province, where we have over 90,000 Iraqis, called the ''Sons of 
Iraq,'' patrolling their communities at night and during the day to 
make sure al-Qaida doesn't come back.

Iraq is a changed place in many ways. If you had to list the winners 
and losers of the surge, I argue that the biggest loser of all is the 
al-Qaida presence in Iraq. Any time al-Qaida is losing, we are winning. 
What has happened in that period of time? The economic progress in Iraq 
is real and is fundamentally different than it was before the surge. 
The reason I think we


have had economic progress in Iraq is because, with better security, 
you can engage in commerce. It is hard to run an economy when you are 
afraid to go to work. It is hard to build a society when your children 
cannot go to school. The GDP growth in Iraq is about 7 percent, and 
inflation before the surge was at 66 percent. Now it is close to 12 
percent, and dropping. The oil production is up by 50 percent. 
Electricity demand is up by 25 percent.

We have economic progress in Iraq that is showing signs of a vibrant 
country moving toward normalcy. We had a budget path in Baghdad by the 
Iraqi Parliament, where Sunni, Shia, and Kurds took the $48 billion of 
revenue that the central government has under their authority and 
shared it with each province and each and every group within Iraq. What 
does that mean? I think most political leaders in America would tell 
you that money is political power. In our minority status as 
Republicans, the Democratic majority gives us an allocation to run our 
staffs and participate in committee activity. We share the resources of 
running the Senate. We sit down and say the Republicans get this and 
the Democrats get that. That is a recognition that we may disagree 
with, but we all have a vibrant role and we need the resources. The 
fact that the Shia, Sunni, and Kurds were able to come together and 
allocate resources owned by the country as a whole to each and every 
group is a major step forward. It would not have happened a year and a 
half ago. It is a buy-in by every group that Iraq is a separate country 
with a common identity. When you can get all three groups giving the 
resources of the country to each other, that is a buy-in to win Iraq.

There is more than that. An amnesty law was passed about 90 days ago. 
That means there are thousands of people in jail in Iraq--mostly 
Sunnis--who were captured in part of the surge and some before--that 
were taking up arms against the central government. These Sunnis in 
jail didn't want to participate in democracy. They ran the show under 
Saddam Hussein. Even though they were a minority in Iraq when Saddam 
was in power, they ran the show. They had an uprising, using violence 
to get their way, to topple the government. They landed in jail. One 
thing history will tell you and teach you, if you follow it closely, is 
that there will never be a reconciliation of a country that is divided 
ethnically or politically until there is a level of forgiveness. 
Reconciliation is a word, and it means nothing without action. The 
amnesty law was passed by the Shia, Kurds, and Sunnis, and it gave the 
people in jail who were captured as part of the Sunni insurgency a 
chance to be released and to start over again. There have been 24,000 
applications to be released from jail under the amnesty law and 17,000, 
I have been told, have been granted.

That is a statement by the Shia and the Kurds who were on the 
receiving end of the violence to the people in jail, saying: Go back 
home. Let's start over as a new country. That, to me, is an act of 
forgiveness that is a precondition to reconciliation, and it would not 
have happened if there had not been a surge in the reduction of 
sectarian violence.

I see my good friend from Arizona.