---
---

# TAX EXTENDERS ACT OF 2009
## `968df288ea83a2db73d733385e1c305d`
`Mr. MERKLEY — 1 March 2010`

---


Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I rise to address the Republican 
filibuster attacking the American worker and the Republican filibuster 
attacking America's small businesses.

I had the chance to go home this weekend. I started my trip home in 
Deschutes County where there is 14 percent unemployment. Next door to 
Deschutes, Crook County has 16.8 percent unemployment. That is only 
counting workers officially unemployed as opposed to those who have 
given up on finding jobs. I went down to Klamath County to the south, 
with 12.6 percent unemployment. I went to Hood River and Columbia 
Gorge, Washington County, the Portland metropolitan area. Everywhere I 
went in Oregon, whether it be eastern or western or north or south--
because I was in every quarter this weekend--citizens wanted to know 
why are the Republicans attacking the American worker and American 
small business?

Across this country, our working families are in trouble. They are 
looking to this body for help. They want to know when are we going to 
get it done. And by ''it,'' they mean extension of unemployment 
benefits. They want to know when are we going to get extended the COBRA 
health benefits. They want to know when we are going to fix the 
Medicare rates that changed today and dropped more than 20 percent so 
that it is that much harder to get into the door of a doctor if you are 
a senior. They want to know why transportation projects are grinding to 
a halt, even though we need those jobs.

The answer lies in this Chamber. This attack on the American worker 
by the Republican filibuster is unacceptable. This attack on the 
American senior is unacceptable. This attack on American small business 
is unacceptable.

Not only does this directly impact working Americans and retired 
Americans, it also affects the economy. Unemployment insurance, COBRA 
extensions are good for the economy. They help put food on the table. 
They help pay the rent. All of that money stays in our economy. All of 
it goes for most families, because they have bills to pay to businesses 
in the communities. Those businesses can then pay their workers and pay 
their contractors. One of the best bangs for the buck in terms of 
economic growth is right before us in unemployment insurance and a 
COBRA extension.

I have puzzled over this challenge. Because what I have observed is 
this: When it comes to giving away money


out of the Treasury to the wealthiest Americans, my colleagues across 
the aisle are delivering it on a silver platter to the wealthiest and 
best off. But when it comes to a plan to assist working Americans and 
seniors and small businesses, my colleagues across the aisle, through 
this Republican filibuster, are taking the hatchet to them. They are 
saying: Working Americans don't count. We only want to have benefits on 
the silver platter for the wealthiest.

It is working Americans who made this Nation great. It is the 
American middle class that created the strongest economy in the world. 
It is the American public school system and our working families that 
have come up with the industriousness and the ingenuity to take this 
Nation forward.

When I am talking about the silver platter the Republicans have for 
the wealthiest in America, let's examine the details. Unfunded 
Republican program, 2001 tax cuts, a $1.35 trillion giveaway, borrowed 
from the next generation, from our children. That is quite a gift. That 
is quite a silver platter. The 2003 tax cuts, $350 billion delivered on 
a silver platter for the wealthiest Americans. Medicare Part D, an 
unfunded program, $400 billion on a silver platter; the Iraq and 
Afghanistan wars, almost $1 trillion--$944 billion--through June of 
2009. The total this year will exceed $1 trillion, unpaid for, 
unfunded, borrowed from our children.


There have been some colleagues rising to say how this is a matter of 
being consistent in paying for American programs. But when you check 
the record, they voted time and time again for unfunded giveaways to 
the wealthiest Americans--the 2001 tax cuts, the 2003 tax cuts. And 
they voted for other programs I like but they were not funded, and I 
include in that Medicare Part D.

When I hear a colleague talking about fiscal responsibility, it is a 
little like listening to Bernie Madoff talking about tough accounting 
rules; it is a little bit like hearing from Brett Favre about promising 
he will retire; it is a little bit like listening to Simon Cowell 
delivering a lecture that people should not utilize sarcasm. Because 
after these trillions of dollars of unfunded giveaways, my colleagues 
have put together a Republican filibuster to attack the American worker 
in a completely inconsistent manner.

I have a different outlook. I think many of my colleagues here have a 
different outlook. We should be here to make America work for working 
Americans. That means when they are hurting, we are going to assist 
them with unemployment insurance, we are going to help with the COBRA 
extension, we are going to help with these loans to small businesses, 
and we are going to help our seniors by fixing that Medicare provision. 
We are not going to take the hammer to those programs. We are going to 
assist our working families.

Because of this Republican filibuster, nearly 1.2 million Americans 
will lose their benefits, and by June this number will grow to 5 
million unemployed workers who will be left without vital benefits if 
Congress does not act.

Let's talk about that small business provision. Small business owners 
have been hurt because the Small Business Administration's general 
business loan program expired yesterday, making it more difficult for 
our small businesses to access loans in an already difficult business 
climate.

My colleague from South Dakota was just on the floor speaking about 
the importance of helping small businesses. But I say to him and the 
Republican filibuster attacking small business in America: Come to this 
floor and say enough is enough; I am going to stand with our workers 
and our seniors and our small businesses.

It is time to end the political posturing, take our eyes off November 
and put our eyes on the challenge of American families, and pass this 
legislation right away.

I thank the Chair.