# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `968f4ebd2e459344e013f192452b710c`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 16 November 2009`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, this amendment would establish a pilot 
program to give grants to community-based organizations to conduct 
outreach for veterans. Many veterans are not aware of care and benefits 
available to them through the VA or need help navigating the VA 
bureaucracy to access those benefits.

The VA has recognized the need to conduct additional outreach to 
veterans but does not have the presence in certain underserved 
communities, including rural areas, to do so directly. This amendment 
would ensure the VA makes grants to organizations, including State and 
local governmental entities, that have a presence in the community and 
experience working with veterans.

This amendment is based on my Veterans Outreach Improvement Act, 
which I first introduced over 5 years ago. That bill has been endorsed 
by the American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Paralyzed Veterans of 
America; Vietnam Veterans of America; National Guard Association of the 
United States; Wounded Warrior Project; and the National Association of 
State Directors of Veterans Affairs. The companion bill has already 
passed the House.

The Senate Veterans Affairs Committee has endorsed the idea of a 
pilot grant program and has authorized the program in the pending 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2009.

The amendment would set aside $5 million in funding for the grants. 
CBO has certified that the amendment has no score and is deficit-
neutral.

The grants would be awarded on a competitive basis. A wide variety of 
groups could apply for the grants. State departments of veterans 
affairs could apply for the grants. In Wisconsin, the Department of 
Veterans Affairs runs a ''supermarket'' of benefits where veterans can 
come and learn about programs available to them through the VA. In the 
first several years of the program, over 10,000 Wisconsin veterans 
learned about VA programs for which they were eligible. If that many 
veterans in Wisconsin alone were unaware of these programs, you can 
imagine the need for greater outreach nationwide.



Other groups that may apply for grants include the county veteran 
service officers who are present in counties throughout most States. 
These individuals have a presence in many rural communities where the 
VA's presence is minimal. Rather than hiring contractors that know 
nothing about veterans issues to conduct outreach by phone to veterans, 
as the VA has done, this amendment would allow the VA to leverage 
existing expertise in the community. Both State and local governmental 
entities are currently conducting outreach notwithstanding the fact 
that this is a Federal responsibility. Given the current strain on 
State and local budgets, we cannot assume that they will continue to be 
able to offer these services.

Community-based nonprofits with experience working with veterans will 
also be eligible for the grants. These organizations may have special 
skills for working with underserved veterans, such as expertise in 
assisting those with mental disabilities.

Given the high number of service members returning from Afghanistan 
and Iraq, it is essential that we conduct outreach to these veterans 
now to ensure that they get the services they need from the VA. I urge 
my colleagues to support this amendment.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.