# FDA FOOD SAFETY MODERNIZATION ACT
## `9699f1c642611f71d919345987b1e0b8`
`Mr. INOUYE — 29 November 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, the amendment offered today by Senator 
Johanns proposes to rescind unobligated balances of appropriated funds 
that are designated for specific purposes in various appropriations 
bills previously enacted by Congress. The Senator offers these 
rescissions in order to offset the loss of revenues resulting from his 
amendment.

Much like similar amendments offered in the past, this amendment 
simply provides for a generic rescission of funds, with the authority 
and decision-making for which programs are impacted delegated entirely 
to the executive branch.

Consideration of this amendment is the first of two attempts this 
evening to shift the power of and responsibility for the Nation's purse 
strings from the legislative branch to the executive branch.

Rescinding funds in this manner, should this amendment be adopted,


may be politically expedient because it simply cites a dollar figure, 
but it is also reckless and irresponsible, and hides the accountability 
for future actions when legitimate programs are shut down.

Mr. President, we should make no mistake about it, an across the 
board cut is the legislative equivalent of performing surgery with a 
meat cleaver, and Senators would be right to reject the amendment for 
this reason alone.

I can assure my colleagues that if this amendment passes, the impact 
will be felt throughout this country, and the arbitrary nature of the 
cuts will only intensify the pain.

Why do I know this? Because for the past several months Senator 
Cochran and I have instructed our staffs to scrub the books of every 
single Federal agency in order to fund Pell Grants, while at the same 
time maintaining the discretionary spending level for fiscal year 2011 
proposed by Senators Sessions and McCaskill.

Even after reviewing in great detail unobligated balances across all 
the agencies and rescinding those funds that were truly unobligated 
balances, we still have to cut spending for fiscal year 2011 in order 
to pay for Pell Grants to the level at which almost everyone in this 
Chamber desires that it be funded.

Consequently, the only unobligated balances remaining are those in 
accounts that have slow spend rates such as construction and 
infrastructure accounts. To rescind $39 billion from these remaining 
accounts without congressional guidance, and without any analysis of 
the ultimate costs and benefits, is simply irresponsible.

Throughout this past year, every time an amendment similar to this 
one has been offered, I and my colleagues on the Appropriations 
Committee have come to the Floor and provided real examples of real 
programs that would be impacted by such an amendment. While I will not 
go into such detail tonight, I will take a moment and give Members a 
sense of which agency accounts have unobligated balances:

International narcotics control and law enforcement programs that 
provide police training and counter-drug programs in Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, Mexico and Colombia, among others.

Global Health and Child Survival, which impacts global HIV/AIDS, 
malaria, TB, polio and other programs.

The State Department's worldwide security program, including funding 
for requirements in Iraq, again impacting our embassy and personnel 
security costs worldwide.

Coast Guard construction of ships and planes, including the National 
Security Cutter, the Maritime Patrol Aircraft, and Fast Response 
Cutters.

Funds to maintain and upgrade the southwest border fence in Arizona 
and California.

The FEMA Disaster Relief Fund which is still paying for Katrina, 
Rita, Gustav and Ike.

Cyber security investments to secure Federal information systems.

Funds to procure and install TSA advanced imaging technology and 
other explosive detection systems.

Funds to build border patrol stations in Texas, Arizona, California 
and Washington.

Funds to build schools and hospitals under the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs and Indian Health Services.

The $500 million in non-emergency unobligated fire suppression funds 
remaining in the Forest Service and Interior Wildland Fire accounts is 
the minimum needed to make sure there are enough funds available in 
case the fire season turns out to be worse than forecast.

Section 8 tenant-based and Section 8 project-based rental assistance. 
These programs receive advanced appropriations to run through the end 
of the calendar year. If these funds were rescinded, there would be no 
funding to continue to provide housing for low-income families living 
in housing today.

In the case of homeless assistance grants, there is a time-consuming 
competitive process that communities go through in order to get these 
funds. Accordingly, these programs have unobligated funds.

If these funds were rescinded, existing homeless programs in 
communities across the country wouldn't have sufficient funds to 
continue serving the homeless--literally leaving people on the streets.

And finally, as one would imagine, Corps of Engineers construction 
projects as well as funding for flood control and coastal emergencies 
have substantial unobligated balances.

Supporters of the Johanns amendment may claim that I and my 
colleagues on the Appropriations Committee are simply citing the worst 
case scenario of where unobligated balances may come from. The fact of 
the matter is that these accounts are exactly where the unobligated 
balances will come from.

Let me also point out to my colleagues that if this amendment is 
enacted, we cannot stop rescissions of unobligated balances from any of 
the accounts mentioned because the amendment gives sole decision-making 
power regarding where to cut to the executive branch.

Unlike the situation with deciding how to fund the FY 2011 ominibus, 
where Ranking Member Cochran and I, along with our committee members, 
decided after much scrutiny of accounts which unobligated balances were 
truly available for rescission, this amendment places all authority 
with the executive branch.

Mr. President, this amendment is not the way to do business. This is 
certainly not the way to fund the Federal Government. We need to stop 
trying to shift our fiscal responsibilities to the executive branch. We 
need to stop claiming there is an excess in Federal funds where none 
exists. And if we want to cut funds and hamper those critical programs, 
then we need to stop hiding behind generic rescissions.

For all these reasons, I urge my colleagues to vote against the 
Johanns amendment.

I yield the floor.