---
---

# HONORING FIRST LIEUTENANT MATTHEW RYAN VANDEGRIFT
## `969c5a43ea0c252dd94e80c8b6ed91dd`
`Mr. TANCREDO — 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. TANCREDO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the sacrifice of a 
fallen hero and Marine from my district, First Lieutenant Matthew Ryan 
Vandegrift, of Littleton, Colorado. First Lieutenant Vandegrift was 
killed while conducting combat operations in Basra, Iraq, just four 
days after celebrating his 28th birthday.

First Lieutenant Vandegrift, stationed in Iraq since August 2007, was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 10th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine 
Division, 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force out of Camp Lejeune, NC. 
Matthew was part of a team responsible for training Iraqi security 
forces. Through his service, Matthew played a critical role in 
establishing Iraqi sovereignty by preparing Iraqi security outfits with 
the knowledge and expertise necessary to survive as a free and 
independent democracy.

Born and raised in Austin, Texas, First Lieutenant Vandegrift found 
his home in Colorado, when his family moved while Matthew was studying 
international business at Texas A&M University. While at Texas A&M, 
Matthew maintained a perfect 4.0 grade point average, and participated 
in the Midshipmen Battalion NROTC program. Following graduation, 
Matthew returned to Littleton, when in 2005 he courageously decided to 
continue the Vandegrift family tradition of serving America, by joining 
the United States Marine Corps.

First Lieutenant Vandegrift fought to protect and preserve the 
freedom and democracy that we as Americans enjoy. First Lieutenant 
Vandegrift exemplified what it is to be an American, and he will 
forever be remembered for his sacrifice and patriotism.

Madam Speaker, my most heartfelt condolences go out to Matthew's 
family and friends. He will be missed by all those who knew and loved 
him.
