---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `96af33cc84bc7c39bc85336b4b1d2e47`
`Mr. HATCH — 1 October 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to PVT Jordan P. 
Thibeault of South Jordan, UT, who recently lost his life in Iraq while 
serving with the 1st Armored Division.

I believe it is my solemn duty to learn about the lives of those Utah 
servicemembers who have fallen in the defense of our Nation.

Looking back on the 7 years of this conflict, I have always been 
stuck by theses remarkable men and women. Such is the case with PVT 
Jordan Thibeault.

He is remembered by the Utah community as a young man who grew up 
loving to ride bikes, act in plays, and known as a helpful and hard-
working young man.

I was struck by the words of his family who released a statement on 
their son's passing. So I will take this opportunity to share with the 
Senate the moving words from the Thibeault family:




 Mankind today is faced with terrible calamities. Only a 


 select few are willing to forgo comforts of home, indeed the 


 very promise of a brighter future, to place themselves 


 between the forces of hate and oppression and the human 


 spirit yearning for peace and safety . . . [Jordan 


 Thibeault's] passing should give hope to all that there are 


 still those among us who are willing to give the ultimate 


 sacrifice to keep mankind safe and free.


Mr. President, no truer words have been spoken on the floor of the 
Senate. Those eloquent words are not only a wonderful tribute but firm 
evidence of the quality of the family that raised such a fine man.

