---
---

# CALLING ON CHINA TO END HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRIOR TO THE OLYMPICS
## `96b896dfa9de992a931bfd8403a69cac`
`Mr. PAUL — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. PAUL. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution, 
which is yet another meaningless but provocative condemnation of China. 
It is this kind of jingoism that has led to such a low opinion of the 
United States abroad. Certainly I do not condone human rights abuses, 
wherever they may occur, but as Members of the U.S. House of 
Representatives we have no authority over the Chinese government. It is 
our constitutional responsibility to deal with abuses in our own 
country or those created abroad by our own foreign policies. Yet we are 
not debating a bill to close Guantanamo, where abuses have been 
documented. We are not debating a bill to withdraw from Iraq, where 
scores of innocents have been killed, injured, and abused due to our 
unprovoked attack on that country. We are not debating a bill to 
reverse the odious FISA bill passed recently which will result in 
extreme abuses of Americans by gutting the Fourth Amendment.

Instead of addressing these and scores of other pressing issues over 
which we do have authority, we prefer to spend our time criticizing a 
foreign government over which we have no authority and foreign domestic 
problems about which we have very little accurate information.

I do find it ironic that this resolution ''calls on the Government of 
the People's Republic of China to begin earnest negotiations, without 
preconditions, directly with His Holiness the Dalai Lama or his 
representatives.'' For years U.S. policy has been that no meeting or 
negotiation could take place with Iran until certain preconditions are 
met by Iran. Among these is a demand that Iran cease uranium 
enrichment, which Iran has the right to do under the terms of the Non-
Proliferation Treaty. It is little wonder why some claim that 
resolutions like this are hypocritical.

Instead of lecturing China, where I have no doubt there are problems 
as there are everywhere, I would suggest that we turn our attention to 
the very real threats in a United States where our civil liberties and 
human rights are being eroded on a steady basis. The Bible cautions 
against pointing out the speck in a neighbor's eye while ignoring the 
log in one's own. I suggest we contemplate this sound advice before 
bringing up such ill-conceived resolutions in the future.