---
---

# THE ECONOMY AND OTHER CURRENT ISSUES
## `96ba3e6cf75bc32c33020809341a65d9`
`Mr. AKIN — 23 June 2010`

---


Mr. AKIN. Well, you know, the thing that strikes me--and maybe it's 
because I'm an engineer and I see it this way. For most Americans I 
know, if you've got this big hole in the middle of the gulf and if it's 
pouring out all of this oil all over the place, the reaction of most 
people is, Well, let's fix it. You know? Let's get the job done. 
Whether you believe in big government or in little government, what you 
want to do as Americans is to have this ''can do'' attitude. Well, we 
made a problem. Now we've got to get in and fix it. We've got to figure 
out what we did wrong. We've got to make sure we don't make those 
mistakes again, and we're going to move forward.

I don't like being negative. I like fixing problems, and I know 
you're the same kind of temperament. We've been kind of complaining 
about the fact of a vacuum of leadership in the administration, and 
it's a vacuum that's evident in the gulf oil spill. It's evident in 
Afghanistan, and it's evident in a lot of policies. Let's stop for a 
minute. I don't want to be negative. Okay. Let's say that we are 
President and that we have this oil spill. What would be an appropriate 
response?

My thinking is I know the military has these things they call 
''fusion cells.'' They're teams of people who get together. It's a 
clearinghouse for all kinds of information. You get the top resources 
all over America of what you need in different areas. You put a plan 
together and say, This is our first attempt to stop this well up. If 
this doesn't work, we're going to do this. That means we've got to have 
this, this, and this piece of equipment ready to go. It means we've got 
to clear this, this, and this with this agency.



We've got Governor this; Governor this; Governor this asking for 
permission. We've got to consider that, take a look at the law, move 
fast if we have to change the law or change some policy, and we need to 
get back to them within 12 hours. And you've got a whole team that is 
on top of it, managing this thing. That's my sense of where we would be 
going. You have to be able to look at all of the data, get the right 
people in the loop, and make decisions. We're not seeing any of that.