# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `96d7316c5c2093c026a98af787e0d673`
`Mr. EMANUEL â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, first of all I would like to thank my 
colleague from Indiana who takes seriously his public service and his 
time and his trips to Iraq.

As you comment on the installment plan we have, I don't mean to do 
this, but we've tried the ''blank check approach.'' You may not like 
this installment plan, but we have tried for 4 years an approach of 
being a blank check. No oversight, no accountability, no questions 
asked. And that has resulted here.

Our men and women, and I know this is true for everybody here, we 
have great respect for what they have done. We asked our Armed Forces 
to seize a country. We asked our Armed Forces to take down an enemy's 
army. We asked our Armed Forces to seize the capital. We asked our 
Armed Forces to capture a dictator. They've done all of that. They have 
been unbelievably successful.

So tell me why we've got the problems we have in Iraq. It is because 
there has never been a political strategy associated with the success 
of the Armed Forces' military effort. And General Petraeus is right: 
you can't solve this militarily. You can only solve this with a 
political solution.

So here we are, our Armed Forces are up to 160,000 troops. We have 
over $600 billion that has been appropriated for this. We have lost 
3,300 lives and 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. So the need for a 
political solution, and the Iraqi answer? We're taking the summer off. 
Going fishing.

This bill says, no way. You have got to be accountable for your 
country and get off the sidelines and get onto the playing field and 
taking ownership of your country's future. If the men and women in our 
Armed Forces are supposed to give the Iraqis the political space to 
come together, we do not do that by taking the summer off and not 
finding common ground.

We have plenty of differences here, but we have common ground here. 
It is the Iraqis that need to find the common ground, not us. We have 
the right approach. We have asked our folks to do everything.

Just a month ago we celebrated the 4-year anniversary of ''mission 
accomplished.'' We know there is a lot to be done in Iraq, and what we 
are trying to do is provide our troops the resources they need, the 
equipment they need, the training they need, and when they come home, 
the veterans, the health care they need, and, most importantly, the 
policy that has been absent. The reason we never lost a single soldier 
in our efforts in Bosnia and in the Balkans is because the policy that 
a President implements is as important to the protection of those 
soldiers as the Kevlar vests they wear.

What has been missing from this policy and what has been missing from 
this endeavor is a policy that is equal to the endeavor of our Armed 
Forces. We have a policy that has been reduced to one simple thing, 
more troops, more money, more time, more of the same, and you cannot 
continue a status quo-plus policy.

It is time for a new direction, and I am proud that we have offered a 
new direction to our Iraqi policy.