---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `96f50078014799d405eef1267fc0ec1d`
`Mr. REED — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. REED. Mr. President, first let me begin by commending Senator 
Baucus and Senator Grassley and their colleagues, Senator Hatch and 
Senator Rockefeller, for extraordinary work. This effort represents 
great legislating based upon principled compromise to achieve a noble 
objective, which is to provide health coverage to the children of 
America. I can't think of a more laudable effort than that which has 
been led and spearheaded by both Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley. 
They deserve our praise and our support.

I am here today to lend my support to the expansion of the CHIP 
program, the Children's Health Insurance Program, to support this 
endeavor which is so critical to the health of the country, literally 
and figuratively. It is not only a sensible policy in terms of 
investing in children, it is also morally compelling.

What more lofty objective can we have than to give children access to 
health care, to be able to grow up in this country knowing they can 
receive medical attention when they need it?

We are in a situation now where, remarkably, the Nation's level of 
poverty is growing. It is higher now than it was in 1970. We have not 
had a President since Lyndon Johnson try to tackle this issue head on. 
This bill recognizes that there are families who don't have the 
resources to buy health insurance, but they have a claim as Americans 
and as citizens to at least have their children covered. I hope we can 
do that by passing this legislation.

It is estimated there are 37 million Americans in poverty, 13 million 
of whom are children. These are not merely statistics; they are our 
neighbors in every State in the Union. They are youngsters who we hope 
one day will grow up healthy and strong to participate not just as 
workers in this economy but as productive citizens of this great land. 
To do that they need access to health care.

We also know that children without access to health care fare very 
poorly in school and have difficulties. These difficulties become more 
and more complex, and they compound over the years. In fact, one of the 
strongest arguments for this legislation is that it makes sense as an 
investment. It is better to pay now rather than later, in terms of 
social disruption and serious health problems. That is something I hope 
even the most hard-nosed colleague in the Senate will appreciate.

One of the consequences of this issue of growing poverty and the 
bifurcation of income between the rich and the rest of us in what we 
all consider to be the ''land of opportunity,'' sadly, is that 
opportunity is not as evident or as palpable as it was in the past. One 
of the great engines of opportunity for any individual, in addition to 
education, is health and the ability to seize these opportunities--
work, education, and service to others.

Again, I think this is an incredibly important piece of legislation. 
We have to do more. We have to recognize there are families who are 
working two jobs--mothers and fathers working 50, 60, 70 hours a week--
and still they don't have the resources necessary to pay for the 
increasing cost of health care for their children or themselves. They 
are squeezed between paying the rent, providing food for the family, 
and


are looking, many times, for ways to cover the cost of health care for 
their children.

I am very proud to have been one of the original cosponsors of CHIP 
in 1997. We were fortunate in Rhode Island to have on the Finance 
Committee Senator John Chafee, who was one of the leading advocates of 
the program. As Senator Grassley suggested, this program was crafted 
with a bipartisan effort in 1997, and one of the great leaders in that 
was John Chafee. In many respects, we are here today--both of us--to 
renew his commitment to the children of America.

Over the past decade, this program has been an unequivocal success. 
It has reduced the number of low-income uninsured children in this 
country. It has done what it said it would do, and it has done it well. 
In Rhode Island, we have a combined Medicaid/CHIP program called 
RIteCare. Our program has been instrumental in reducing uninsured 
children, and it made a difference for hard-working families in my 
State. While this program made great strides, there is still much more 
work to be done.

I want to take a few moments to address some of the issues raised 
about the Senate Finance Committee agreement and talk to some of the 
points raised in this Chamber criticizing that agreement. I believe 
this agreement is not only sound policy, but it addresses a major 
concern in the country. The proposal before us would achieve several 
key objectives supported by the overwhelming majority of Americans.

First, it preserves coverage for all 6.6 million children presently 
covered under the CHIP program. Second, it renews the original intent 
of the program by making a real commitment to cover an additional 3.2 
million children who are eligible for coverage but not enrolled. These 
two important goals are achieved by allocating $35 billion over 5 
years. The original program was financed through the Federal cigarette 
excise tax, and the proposal before us continues to use this mechanism.

The bill also addresses a problem with the formula that was beginning 
to plague a growing number of States, including my State of Rhode 
Island. Last December, I joined a number of my colleagues in crafting 
an agreement to redistribute unexpended funds from some States and 
redirect them to States, such as Rhode Island and Georgia and New 
Jersey, that were rapidly approaching budget shortfalls because they 
exceeded their CHIP allotment.

The Finance Committee, recognizing this issue, has made a proposal 
that institutes needed changes in the formula used to calculate State 
CHIP allotments so Congress is not required to resort to eleventh hour 
deals to shift money from one State that hasn't used it to other 
States. That is an important change to the legislation. The bill sets 
aside a portion of funds in case of contingencies, such as what was 
experienced during Hurricane Katrina.

Lastly, the bill tackles a challenge that States have been struggling 
with since the CHIP program began 10 years ago; that is, reaching 
children who are uninsured and eligible for coverage but are not 
enrolled. The bill provides incentive funds and flexibility for States 
to overcome the many economic, social, and geographic barriers that 
hinder millions of uninsured children who deserve health insurance 
coverage.

My home State of Rhode Island is a perfect case in point. While Rhode 
Island ranks 10th nationally in the lowest number of uninsured 
children--we are very proud of that; in fact, we would like to move up 
in the ranking from 10 to 1--a recent report by Rhode Island Kids Count 
indicates that of the estimated 18,680 uninsured children in the State, 
11,275 of them were eligible for children's health insurance coverage 
but were not enrolled. We should enroll all eligible children; that 
should be our goal. We have to reach these children and, frankly, this 
legislation will help States become more proactive and successful in 
enrolling children.


There has been criticism directed at the bill. Let me take a moment 
to respond to some of the criticism. There has been concern about the 
cost of the package. I understand that alternative versions of the 
Children's Health Insurance Program reauthorization will be offered by 
others in the Chamber during this debate. Some of these bills will have 
very enticing names, like Kids First, but we should not be fooled by 
it. The substance of these amendments does everything but put kids 
first. It won't even maintain the minimum coverage that we have today. 
Some of the 6.6 million children who are enrolled today will lose out 
in these alternatives. Rather than expanding coverage, it will contract 
coverage. We don't want to head in the other direction; we want to move 
forward.

Similarly, others have balked about the $35 billion price tag. I 
remind my colleagues that our Senate budget resolution allocated $50 
million for children's health insurance coverage. The Senate Finance 
Committee, the chairman and ranking member, labored mightily and came 
up with the best possible proposal they could get through the 
committee, and it is a principled proposal. I salute it. But I was 
disappointed that the committee left on the table $15 billion that 
could have been used to insure more children. I have joined Senator 
Kerry in his amendment to restore it. Again, in terms of our budget 
priorities, the proposal before us today is even less than what was 
supported in the budget resolution. For those who say it is too 
expensive, that suggests this hasn't been very carefully considered and 
indeed it was, unfortunately, somewhat winnowed down.

Perhaps the most poignant reference is that, while we were talking 
about $35 billion over 5 years for children's health, we are spending 
$10 billion a month in Iraq. That says a lot about how we have to begin 
to reshape our priorities. I don't believe we are spending too much on 
children when it comes to this particular legislation.

Some have expressed displeasure over using the Federal cigarette 
excise tax to finance the package. The bill would gradually raise the 
tax 61 cents, up to $1, over a 5-year period. This is consistent with 
the original financing mechanism for the Children's Health Insurance 
Program in 1997. But there is something else interesting here. 
Cigarette smoking has been identified for decades as one of the chief 
public health problems in this country, particularly when children 
start doing it. It is a threat to the health of the Nation, and I doubt 
if there is anyone in this Chamber who has not had at least one family 
member's health affected adversely by smoking. I listened to Senator 
Enzi speak passionately in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and 
Pensions Committee last week about his father's smoking, which led to 
his demise, and it also affected his mother.

When you raise the price of a product, you curtail the amount of it 
that is purchased. We are using market forces to help us do something 
that we should do: reduce the rate of cigarette smoking. Using market 
mechanisms in this way, not only to raise resources for health 
insurance for children, but to lower the number of people who engage in 
smoking will save public health dollars that are being spent to care 
for people who have lung cancer, emphysema, and other respiratory 
diseases caused by smoking.

There is another concern that has been raised, which is that the 
agreement grossly expands the CHIP program to parents and childless 
adults, when in fact the bill does quite the opposite. The bipartisan 
agreement actually ends the administration's practice of providing 
States waivers to cover parents and childless adults. To date, 14 
States have received waivers to cover parents and childless adults, 
including my State of Rhode Island. In fact, Secretary Leavitt just 
approved a 3-year extension of Wisconsin's waiver allowing adult 
coverage. Frankly, I believe that States deserve the ability to take 
these steps. I am disappointed that more States won't be able to do it. 
This bill acts as a check on that administrative authority. It 
deliberately, at this time, restricts the number of parents and 
childless adults who can join this coverage.

As my colleague, Senator Menendez, mentioned earlier, research shows 
a strong correlation between parental coverage and the enrollment of 
eligible children. Once again, the policy behind enrolling parents is 
sound. But this bill, rather than grossly expanding parental coverage, 
begins to restrict that coverage. Under the agreement, States with 
existing coverage expansion waivers will be given a period of 
transition, and no new States will be granted the opportunity to extend 
coverage under CHIP. This seems like a reasonable response to these 
concerns, but I hope as


we go forward we might be able to look at the logic behind parental 
coverage policies as a way to ensure that the whole family--
particularly children--are covered.

The proposal also rightly grants States the option to cover pregnant 
women. Good prenatal care is essential to overall child health and 
well-being, as well as reducing the number of low birth weight and 
premature babies. Given the fact that the United States is actually 
behind most developed countries, and even some developing countries, in 
terms of these indicators, this step is certainly warranted and 
overdue.

Finally, Members seem to have great consternation over the fact that 
children's health coverage produces some level of crowding out of 
private insurance coverage, and the bill is a giant step toward 
Government-run health care. Again, the rhetoric seems to be at odds 
with the reality of what is in this bill. I note that most enrollees in 
public insurance are actually covered through private plans, where 
States take the money and reimburse the private insurer. The Finance 
Committee proposal takes the additional step of including something 
called premium support. It essentially gives States the ability to 
offer subsidies for children who are eligible for CHIP coverage but 
have access to employer-sponsored coverage.

In my State, we have had this experience. We have a program called 
RIteShare. The program has enabled thousands of Rhode Island families 
who otherwise could not afford to remain in private insurance coverage 
to do so with a little help from the State. It is a marginal 
contribution to their private health insurance, which allows them to 
stay in the private market. This proposal, again, goes a long way 
toward addressing the issue of potential crowding out.

I believe this bipartisan agreement represents a very strong step 
forward to facilitate outreach and enrollment of low-income children. 
It is not a perfect legislative proposal, but it is an important one 
based on principled compromise. It reinforces our commitment to 
children's health. I am amazed the President is already suggesting he 
might veto it, despite overwhelming public support, and despite the 
compelling economics that are behind investing in children's health.

I hope that we will by our votes demonstrate that this is a bill 
which should not be vetoed but should be passed quickly so children can 
continue to enjoy access to health care in our country.

We all understand that our future is really about our children. They 
will be the leaders years from now, and we all hope and wish that they 
will grow up strong, able to seize the opportunities of this Nation. 
Beyond hoping and wishing today, we can help make that a reality by 
voting for this important legislation. I urge all my colleagues to join 
me in doing so.

Finally, I would like to take another moment. As colleagues, we come 
to the floor, we debate issues and legislation we have sponsored, but 
the details are worked out by staff members long into the wee hours of 
the morning. We read speeches prepared by very dedicated staff members.

I have the rare privilege of saluting someone who has worked with me 
for so many years. Lisa German Foster has been with me since January 
1996 when I joined the Senate. She is leaving to pursue other 
endeavors.

She started in my office as an unpaid intern and has become 
recognized here as one of the preeminent staffers with respect to 
health care issues and one of the most decent and humane individuals 
one will ever meet. I salute her for her work on this bill, on child 
health and immunization, on the bone marrow registry, on tobacco 
legislation.

She is a native of my home State of Rhode Island, in Narragansett, 
but I think she is firmly ensconced in Washington, DC, with her husband 
Bill and children Aidan and Brady.

Lisa, on behalf of all of us here, thank you for your good work.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.