# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `96f7ac5993333e6d2efde431bb220563`
`Mr. FILNER — 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chairman, as the chairman of the Veterans Affairs 
Committee, I rise in strong support of the Wounded Warrior Assistance 
Act; and I yield to myself what time I might consume.

I want to thank Congressman Skelton and Congressman Hunter. This is a 
great bill. As a Nation and as a Congress, we were faced with a test, a 
real challenge, whether we can respond to the conditions of our Nation 
and of our veterans and our active duty troops. The revelations of what 
happened at Walter Reed presented us that challenge, gave us that test, 
and I say with confidence that this Congress is meeting that test.

This is step two in meeting that test. Step one was to make sure we 
had sufficient resources in the budget of this Nation to meet the needs 
not only of our existing veterans who have more and more need, whether 
they are from World War II or Vietnam or the first Persian Gulf war or 
the great influx of veterans that we are going to have from Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We already have over 700,000 returning troops who are now 
veterans, and we are going to get hundreds of thousands more.

In the so-called continuing resolution that was passed by this 
Congress a few weeks ago, the Veterans Administration was the only 
agency that got a significant increase from last year's budget; and 
this Congress added $3.6 billion to veterans in that one continuing 
resolution.

The supplemental for war that passed this House last week, led by 
Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Skelton, Chairman Obey, and Chairman Edwards, 
we said that the supplemental for war has to also have a supplemental 
for the warrior--for the health care of our returning veterans. Both in 
the Defense Department and the VA, we put in almost $3.5 billion; and 
in the budget resolution that we will be considering today and voting 
on tomorrow, the Democrats have put in $6.6 billion above the 2007 
levels. That, in 90 days, is over $13.5 billion added to last year's 
budget for the care of our veterans.

George Washington said it very clearly, that the morale of our active 
duty troops is dependent on the sense of how they are going to be 
treated when they come home.

The first step of infusion of money, the second step of the Wounded 
Warrior Assistance bill, says that we are going to meet the challenge, 
that we understand that the costs of caring for our veterans is part of 
the cost of war, and that no matter what we think about the war in 
Iraq, we are united in this Congress and in this Nation that every 
returning young man and woman gets all the care and love and respect 
and honor that this Nation can deliver. That is what this bill says, 
that we are all committed to making sure that the care of these 
veterans is first in our consciousness.

Both the Defense health care system and the VA system is stretched to 
its limits. We have underfunded it over the years. We are asking from 
very dedicated professionals in the VA system to do more and more with 
less and less resources.

The strain is evident wherever you look. The strain is evident at 
Walter Reed. The strain is evident when a young Marine shows up at a VA 
hospital in Minnesota and says, I think I have PTSD and I am having 
thoughts of suicide, and he was told that you are 28th on the waiting 
list, come back in a few weeks or a few months, and he went home and he 
committed suicide. The strain on our system is shown by events like 
that, and we are committed to making sure that they do not continue.

So we have to live up to our responsibilities, both for the returning 
Iraqi and Afghanistan veterans and to those who have served our Nation 
going back to World War II.

In many instances, the problems are exacerbated because of 
jurisdictional and procedure roadblocks between the Defense and the 
Veterans Administration. So we have to remove those roadblocks; and, as 
chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, I have worked closely with 
other members of our committee who will speak today, with Chairman 
Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter of the Committee on Armed Services, 
to make sure we are working off the same page.

This legislation takes important steps in making the servicemember's 
transition from the Department of Defense to the VA a seamless 
transition. We have been using that word for a long time, but we still 
have great cracks in that system. It is not seamless, but this bill 
would mandate the Department of Defense to provide disabled 
servicemembers who are being separated or returned from the Armed 
Forces with a written transition plan, a road map pointing the way to 
programs and benefits offered to them as veterans.

It would institute a formal process for transmitting reports and 
other information to the Veterans Administration from the active duty 
situation.

It would require both the Department of Defense and the Veterans 
Administration to establish a joint separation and evaluation physical.



Physicals now are done by two different agencies and with two 
different standards and with two different bureaucracies. It is 
sometimes a hellish situation for returning active duty troops. We have 
to have a fully interoperable medical information system so that two 
agencies can speak to one another, so that the veteran coming home will 
have on his record in the VA all the things that occurred to him when 
he was on active duty in the military.

If we are going to make the handoff in the continuum of care 
successful, if we are going to make sure there is a seamless 
transition, if we want to make sure that we don't fumble information 
that puts at risk the returning servicemembers, we have to take these 
steps. These steps have are not newly invented. They were first 
expressed in earlier reports, the President's Task Force, for example, 
to Improve Health care for our Nation's Veterans, talked about this 
transition. I hope we are providing both departments with the resources 
and the tools they need to get that transition right.

Mr. Chairman, our concern is for the health of our fighting men and 
women when they come home that they get that health care taken care of, 
both in the Defense Department hospitals and in the VA system. Let's 
work seamlessly. I urge support for H.R. 1538.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.