# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `96f7965e0ef5371ecdd2f5db5556960c`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, most of the men and women who wear our 
country's uniform would not call themselves heroes, but I am afraid I 
would have to disagree with that. Those who fight abroad for our 
freedom here at home are, indeed, heroes. I rise to honor one special 
Kentuckian among them who was lost to us in the line of duty.

SFC Jason Lee Bishop of Covington, KY, was killed by a car bomb while 
on patrol operations in Siniya, Iraq, on New Year's Day of 2006. A 
member of the 1st Squadron, 33rd Cavalry, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 
101st Airborne Division, based in Fort Campbell, KY, he was 31 years 
old.

For his outstanding service as a soldier in the U.S. Army, SFC Bishop 
was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and the Purple Heart, as well as many 
other medals and honors of distinction.

Jason was the first of four children born to his parents Frank and 
Brenda Bishop in the northern Kentucky town of Covington. His mother 
remembers Jason as a young child standing on the seat in the family car 
and singing along with the radio, especially to Kenny Rogers.

Riding in the car with his father was a different experience. Frank 
taught young Jason how to drive by putting him in the driver's seat at 
the top of a hill, disengaging the parking brake, and issuing one 
command: ''Drive.'' On a stick shift, no less.

Jason and his dad enjoyed deer hunting and fishing together, 
something they did whenever the opportunity arose. Playing cards was 
another way the two enjoyed each other's company. His family says Jason 
learned to count using playing cards.

Jason graduated from Covington Holmes High School in 1993 with 4 
years of junior ROTC experience. He entered the Army immediately upon 
graduation.

After basic training and assignment at Fort Knox, also in my State of 
Kentucky, Jason was sent to the Republic of Korea. He also was deployed 
to Bosnia for a 10-month tour. Later assigned to Fort Campbell back in 
Kentucky, Jason was promoted to sergeant first class.

Completing Drill Sergeant School was one of SFC Bishop's proudest 
accomplishments. Earning that drill sergeant badge was physically and 
mentally grueling, perhaps the toughest of all of his assignments.

Jason became a darn good drill sergeant. A fellow drill sergeant who 
served with him at Fort Knox, SFC Daniel Webster, says he is not aware 
of any combat deaths among the 1,000 men Jason trained at Fort Knox--a 
remarkable record. ''There is no doubt in my mind soldiers are coming 
back from Iraq and Afghanistan alive because Jason was so committed to 
their training,'' SFC Webster added.

In July of 1999, while stationed at Fort Knox, Jason met the woman he 
would marry, Katrina Bishop. They took their vows in 2002. ''He and I 
were soulmates,'' Katrina says.

They had a son, Matthew Franklin Bishop. Only 1/1/2/ years old when 
Jason deployed for the last time, he idolized his father. Matt 
''quickly became his shadow,'' Katrina says. ''Wherever Daddy was, Matt 
had to be too.''

In September 2005, Jason and his unit deployed to Iraq. They would 
come home without him in September of 2006.

Jason is loved and remembered by his parents Frank and Brenda Bishop; 
his sisters Jamie, Lacey, and Julia Bishop; his wife Katrina Bishop; 
his son Matthew Bishop; his daughter Morgan Bishop, as well as many 
other beloved family members.

A wall that stands at Fort Knox to honor all of the fallen heroes in 
Iraq and Afghanistan has been named for the soldier who once served 
there. It is called ''Bishop's Wall of Remembrance.''

There is also a Sergeant First Class Jason Bishop Memorial Park at 
Covington that sits directly across from the house in which Jason grew 
up.

But the tribute to Sergeant First Class Bishop I can speak to most is 
this medal.

This medal, this coin was sent to me by Katrina Bishop. The Bishop 
family had it made in honor of their son. On one side it lists Jason's 
dates of birth and death, his assignment in the 101st Airborne 
Division, and his service in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

On the other side of the coin it reads: ''Sergeant First Class Jason 
Lee Bishop'' and has a picture of his sergeant's stripes. It also lists 
seven attributes that the Bishop family chose to remember their son, 
husband, and father by: loyalty, honor, duty, integrity, respect, 
selfless service, personal courage.

Mr. President, this medal is the Bishop family's reminder of Jason's 
life, which was tragically ended, and of their love for him, which will 
never end.

I thank Katrina Bishop for this gift, and I will be honored to keep 
it in my office. It will serve as a reminder to me, as well, of how 
much we owe the men and women of our Armed Forces whose highest calling 
is to fight for the freedom of others.

I ask the Senate to pause for a moment today and hold the family and 
friends of SFC Jason Lee Bishop in their prayers. They certainly will 
be in mine.

I yield the floor.