# None
## `97278a676c7b34dd04296bfbde94d5e1`
`Ms. GIFFORDS â€” 9 December 2010`

---


Ms. GIFFORDS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
Sergeant First Class James E. Thode, who was killed in action on 
December 2, 2010.

A resident of Tucson since the age of 6, James graduated from 
Catalina Magnet High School before attending the University of Arizona. 
A decorated combat veteran, he was assigned to Detachment 1 of the 
118th Engineer Sapper Company, 1457th Engineer Battalion based out of 
American Fork, Utah. He was on his third combat deployment with the 
Army National Guard in Sabari District, Khowst Province, Afghanistan 
when he was killed by insurgents who attacked his convoy with an 
improvised explosive device. In his civilian life, James served as a 
police officer in Farmington, New Mexico, having joined the department 
in 1996 and working as a field training officer and member of the SWAT 
team.

Among his many decorations, he earned the Bronze Star, Army 
Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal and the Purple Heart. He was 
one of our Nation's most elite, best and bravest, and he will be 
remembered always.

We remember James and offer our deepest condolences and sincerest 
prayers to his family. My words cannot effectively convey the feeling 
of great loss nor can they offer adequate consolation. However, it is 
my hope that in future days, his family may take some comfort in 
knowing that James made a difference in the lives of many others and 
serves as an example of a competent and caring leader and friend that 
will live on in the hearts and minds of all those he touched.

This body and this country owe James and his family a debt of 
gratitude, and it is vital that we remember him and his service to this 
country.

Sergeant First Class James Thode is survived by his wife, Carlotta; 
mother, Evelyn; father, Ernest; daughter, Ashley; son, Tommy and 
sister, MaryAnn.
