---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `9732faa14835eaa3b8e71d4ab871a40c`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 10 November 2009`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the bill and urge its 
quick and prompt adoption.

In doing so, I wish to pay tribute to a fallen warrior from the State 
of Maryland who died in the terrible massacre at Fort Hood. I wish to 
express my condolences to all families who suffered the loss of life or 
were injured at that terrible shooting. It was a terrible tragedy for 
them at Fort Hood, for their families, and for our country.

We know the 13 families are now dealing with the loss of loved ones, 
and 30 other families have members who were wounded in the attack. We 
in Maryland suffered a casualty as well. I am here today to pay my 
respects and express my condolences to the family of LTC Juanita 
Warman, a wonderful woman who moved to Maryland 5 years ago as a call 
to duty. She had a 25-year military career in both the Active and 
Reserve Army. She devoted her career to serving fellow soldiers.

Lieutenant Colonel Warman was a nurse practitioner. Her field was in 
psychiatric and emotional counseling. She served in other parts of the 
country and came as a call to duty to Perry Point Veterans Hospital in 
Maryland. There she served to help our wounded warriors. Perry Point is 
the designated facility in Maryland to help wounded warriors, those who 
bear the permanent injury of war, who bear the wounds of either 
emotional or mental illness. She was absolutely on their side. She was 
viewed as a consummate professional by her colleagues and by the people 
who relied upon her for her talented counseling.

A master's degree in nursing, she was an expert in posttraumatic 
stress as well as traumatic brain injury. She devoted her career to 
helping these soldiers as she did her family. Her family saw her as a 
mother to two, a grandmother to eight, and two stepchildren as well. 
She was raised in a military family. She understood the bonds between 
fellow soldiers. She also volunteered as part of a program called the 
Maryland Yellow Ribbon Program to help soldiers reintegrate into the 
community. She developed guidelines to dispel myths about PTSD. She 
particularly would reach out to women soldiers who had unique 
challenges, both in their own life and the lives of their families.

She provided mental health counseling to soldiers coming out of a war 
zone trying to come into a family zone so that family zone didn't 
become a battleground as well. She also was well known for her work at 
Ramstein Hospital. She traveled there in many instances to help our 
soldiers make the transition from battlefield to the hospital in 
Germany to back here. She received an Army commendation medal for her 
meritorious service at Ramstein. She was a great soldier.

She was at Fort Hood less than 24 hours. She was getting ready to 
deploy to Iraq. She was ready to go, though she was sad to go. From her 
last posting on Facebook, she knew she would be away for the holidays 
from her beloved husband Philip, her children, grandchildren, and 
stepchildren. But there were no stepchildren; they were all her 
children to Lieutenant Colonel Warman.

We are going to miss her. Her family is going to miss her. We are 
going to miss her in Maryland because she was an active member of the 
community. The Army is going to miss her. Most of all, those who need 
mental health counseling will miss her. We are so sorry this happened 
to her.

There will be those who will want to wear yellow ribbons and black 
armbands and have flags at half mast. And we should. We should do all 
the symbols to honor what happened to those who fell at Fort Hood. But 
the best way to honor the people in the massacre at Fort Hood, to honor 
the people who have been wounded in Iraq or Afghanistan is to pass this 
legislation.

The legislation pending is the Military Construction and VA health 
bill. There is so much good in this bill that will provide medical 
services to those who bear the permanent and sometimes invisible wounds 
of war. While we want to salute those who fell at Fort Hood and on the 
battlegrounds of Iraq and Afghanistan, the way we honor their memory 
and their service, the service of all who have been abroad, is by 
making sure when they come home, they get the medical and social 
services they need, a bridge to get them back into civilian life.

Again, my condolences to the Warman family and to all who fell, but 
most of all I thank everybody for their service. Let's thank them not 
only with words but with deeds. Let's pass this bill.

I yield the floor.










Amendment No. 2740 to Amendment No. 2730
