---
---

# TRIBUTE TO 1ST LT. KEITH HEIDTMAN
## `973d1d1c5e0bd1a6163bd8f165a8f355`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in tribute of an American 
patriot and fallen Connecticut son. A native of Norwich, 1st Lt. Keith 
Heidtman was killed in Iraq on Memorial Day, May 28, 2007 while 
piloting a helicopter north of Baghdad.

I spent Memorial Day in Iraq with the troops and witnessed firsthand 
the dangers they face every minute. To later learn that the day of my 
visit would also be the same as Keith's passing was particularly 
painful.

Keith was a 2001 graduate of Norwich Free Academy where he was an 
all-conference


baseball player, talented basketball player, and honor student. He then 
attended the University of Connecticut where he participated in ROTC, 
graduating cum laude in 2005 with a bachelor's degree in resource 
economics.

After graduation, Keith joined the army. At the top of his class, he 
chose to attend the United States Army Aviation Warfighting Center 
where he became a helicopter pilot. He was deployed to Iraq in December 
as part of Task Force Lightning.

Keith Heidtman represents the promise of America. A talented and 
dedicated young man, he laid down his life to serve his country. While 
his smile may no longer brighten the lives of those around him, the 
memory of his life shall always endure. Young men and women are serving 
our Nation with honor and distinction every day. They are on the 
frontlines, defending those in need of help. There is no job nobler. 
Keith understood this great responsibility and volunteered for service 
to protect his country and its citizens, strangers and family members 
alike.

At his funeral, I was moved by the incredible outpouring of support 
demonstrated by his friends and community. Hundreds of people came to 
pay their respects and salute this American hero.

I recently had the chance to meet Keith's mother and stepfather, 
Maureen and Arthur, at their home in Norwich. After meeting them it was 
clear to me where Keith developed his penchant for service--his mother. 
As an employee for the Connecticut Department of Children and Families, 
Maureen has dedicated her life to helping those in need. Keith carried 
on her legacy in the U.S. Army where he bravely served his country and 
made the ultimate sacrifice.

Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring 1st Lt. Keith Heidtman and 
his service to our great Nation. Keith and his sacrifice will forever 
be remembered by me, a mourning Connecticut, a grateful Nation, and 
family members who will never forget.
