# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `973f111ef4da6338b05d6ae30f3634da`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 9 July 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, I commend Senator Hagel and 
Senator Webb. I was serving as a lieutenant and a captain in the U.S. 
Army during Vietnam. I was not sent to Vietnam but clearly dealt with 
all of its aftermath in the duties I did carry in the military. I 
support the Webb amendment and appreciate his statement and the 
heartfelt statement of Senator Hagel.

Earlier, Senator Hagel had joined me in being an original cosponsor 
of an amendment the two of us will be offering later having to do with 
widows and orphans. Senator Hagel is a longtime supporter of the effort 
to repeal this offset to the Survivor Benefit Plan by the dependent 
indemnity compensation.

What we have is Active-Duty servicemembers who pay for an insurance 
plan called the Survivor Benefit Plan. If they are killed in active 
duty, their families have some subsistence to carry on which they have 
provided for because they did that additional paying for what is in 
effect an insurance plan. In another part of the law under the 
Veterans' Administration, there is something known as the dependent 
indemnity compensation, and it, too, takes care of survivors and 
families. The problem is, the two offset each other and, as a result, 
particularly with some of the privates and the corporals and the young 
sergeants who have provided for their families when they are deceased, 
those young widows are having difficulty making financial ends meet. We 
have to correct this.


Isn't it interesting all this goes back to statements made by 
President Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War. In his second inaugural 
address, he said that one of the greatest obligations of war was to 
take care of the widow and the orphan. If we look at the cost of war--
guns, ammunition, tanks, trucks, airplanes, body armor, all of that is 
a cost of war. Transportation, logistics, all of that is a cost of war.

Well, there is another cost of war, and it is the cost of war in 
taking care of the survivors. The U.S. Government ought to plan on, as 
a cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, taking care of our veterans 
and their widows, widowers, and orphans.

So as we get into this Defense authorization bill, we are going to 
have the privilege of honoring the men and women and families who have 
given the ultimate sacrifice in service to this Nation. We are going to 
have the opportunity to remove the injustice facing our veterans. That 
injustice is this offset which offsets the indemnity compensation--a 
benefit from the Veterans' Administration--with the Survivor Benefit 
Plan, which is paid for by our veterans.

So when a veteran, as an Active-Duty military member, has paid out of 
their own paycheck into the Survivor Benefit Plan--it is similar to an 
insurance program--they do not get the full benefit because of the 
surviving spouse's and the children's eligibility under the Veterans' 
Administration program, the Dependent Indemnity Compensation program.

Now, to offset those two is not right. So this amendment, No. 2000, 
is going to end that injustice. Senator Hagel and I will be offering it 
later on, as we get on in this next 2 weeks, down the road on this 
Defense authorization bill. But for 7 years, this Senator has been 
trying to pass this legislation that will remove this offset.

Last year, we passed it in the Senate by a whopping vote of 92 to 6, 
only the leadership in the conference down in the House whacked it out 
last year. We are going to try to prevent that from occurring. The 
objection to it is it costs $8.2 billion over 10 years. But isn't it an 
obligation of the U.S. Government to take care of the families of their 
loved ones? I believe it is.

When the Senate passed this amendment that left out some 
beneficiaries and required repayment of funds in the past, it was even 
more. It was $9.6 billion. Well, it has now been calculated right at $8 
billion.

So that is coming down the road, and I am looking forward to getting 
into it. I am looking forward to getting a lopsided, whopping vote 
again in the Senate that will send a strong message to the conference 
committee to reconcile the House-passed and Senate-passed versions.

Now, I rise in my capacity as chairman of the Strategic Subcommittee 
of the Senate Armed Services Committee. This overall bill is a good, 
balanced bill, and it works to ensure the troops are trained, equipped, 
and supported. The bill was reported favorably to the Senate with a 
unanimous vote by our committee. It is a good indicator of the 
bipartisan support for the bill and a reflection of the manner in which 
this committee has been led by Senator Levin, the chairman, Senator 
McCain, the ranking member, and Senator Warner, the immediate past 
chairman, who has stepped in so often for Senator McCain, as he is 
right now but 7 or 8 feet from me in overlooking and managing this 
legislation.

I wish to discuss the work of the subcommittee. The Strategic 
Subcommittee had a good year, and it has been a considerable pleasure 
for me to work very closely with Senator Sessions of Alabama, as the 
ranking member. Last year it was reversed. Senator Sessions was the 
chairman, and I was the ranking member. So we have worked together for 
several years with very difficult issues, sometimes contentious, but 
they did not become contentious this year. We worked out almost all of 
them.

We held five hearings and several briefings on a wide range of 
issues. These issues cover everything from space and intelligence, 
strategic systems, such as bombers, submarines, ground-launched 
ballistic missiles, the nuclear weapons programs, the missile defense 
program, and the bulk of the Defense-funded activities of the 
Department of Energy.

In the last several days, I have had the privilege of visiting our 
three major National Defense Labs that concentrate on Department of 
Energy nuclear weapons programs: first, Sandia and then Los Alamos--
both of them in New Mexico--and then on to Lawrence Livermore in 
California. I would commend to all Senators to go and see the work and 
be briefed on the extraordinarily important stuff that is going on in 
these national labs, being done by extraordinary people.


In the area of missile defense, this committee, our subcommittee, has 
continued implementing a policy we established last year, placing a 
priority on the development, testing, fielding, and improvement of 
effective near-term missile defense capabilities, particularly to 
protect forward-deployed U.S. forces and allies against existing 
threats from short-range and medium-range ballistic missiles.

Where are the threats? The threats the ballistic missile defense is 
being developed for now are different than what was announced 20 years 
ago by President Reagan. After President


Reagan and Gorbachev was--well, then he was the head of the Communist 
Party, and I do not remember if his title was President. But he was, in 
effect, the leader of the Soviet Union. After their meeting at 
Reykjavik, Iceland, they started to bring down the numbers of these 
strategic systems, such as the missiles and the warheads.

Later, President Reagan offered to Mikhail Gorbachev: Well, we will 
develop this system of national missile defense and we will give it to 
you and we can both then have, in effect, two systems that assure 
mutually assured destruction because of so many thermonuclear warheads 
that we can have to blunt each other.

Well, things changed along the way. The Soviet Union crumbled. But 
the bulk of all that capability in the Soviet Union is retained by 
Russia. Happily, there has been the continued progress on the 
dismantling of the warheads in both the United States and Russia.

But as to the ballistic missile defense program, which had fits and 
starts, the technical requirements are exceptional, and it has been 
very difficult to achieve. The requirements of using it changed, and 
so, in effect, it is being developed now to protect against missiles 
that may be launched by North Korea against us or against any allies--
and Iran. Looking into the future, Iran does not have this real 
capability today, but we are concerned they will in the future, 
particularly if their nuclear program continues as they are threatening 
it will. So the ballistic missile defense program has considerably 
shifted over the last two decades into a different kind of program.

Now it is facing a crucial test coming up this next month. We will 
see if all it has been advertised to be able to do, in fact, is done 
through this test that is going to try to calibrate if, with kinetic 
energy, with an incoming missile warhead, we can have a ballistic 
missile defense system that can hit in outer space that incoming 
warhead and/or warheads--you can imagine what kind of accuracy that has 
to be--in the midcourse phase in outer space or in the reentry phase, 
as it is coming back through the Earth's atmosphere.

In order to provide protection against these existing or near-term 
missile threats, our committee, in the bill, has authorized an 
additional $315 million to increase or accelerate work on the near-term 
missile defense capabilities. That includes $255 million for the Aegis 
BMD, the Patriot PAC-3, and the THAAD systems, which I will describe in 
a minute. It also authorizes an additional $60 million for the joint 
Israel-U.S. work on the Arrow missile defense system and on the short-
range missile defense. These increases are offset by reductions in far-
term and lower priority programs.

With respect to the overall funding, our committee authorized a total 
of $10.1 billion for the ballistic missile defense programs. That is a 
net reduction of $231 million below the budget request for the Missile 
Defense Agency. That is a 2-percent reduction.

Let me summarize what is in the bill. The bill is going to authorize 
the entire Army funding request for the Patriot PAC-3 program, 
including funding for its ''Pure Fleet'' initiative. The committee also 
authorized an additional $75 million to procure 25 additional PAC-3 
missiles.

The Patriot PAC-3 system is our only ballistic missile defense system 
that has already proven to be effective in combat, and we do not have 
enough PAC-3 units or missiles to provide the capabilities our 
combatant commanders need today. The committee authorized an additional 
$75 million for the Aegis ballistic missile defense program to increase 
the production rate of Standard Missile 3 interceptors, procure 15 
additional SM-3 missiles, and accelerate the work on the Aegis BMD 
single processor and open architecture program.


Now, in a unanimous consent request I previously made to go into 
executive session at 4:30, since I am not through with my statement, 
what is the pleasure of the Presiding Officer?