---
---

# AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND WESTERN STATES EMERGENCY  UNFINISHED BUSINESS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `9741ed2c56fcf698ff7b56cb5c896a73`
`Mr. REHBERG — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. REHBERG. Mr. Speaker, I would like to associate myself with Mr. 
Walden and Mr. Simpson when I say the President is dead wrong. In fact, 
he is almost to the level of being cruel, when an administration 
doesn't clearly understand a sense of urgency, when you only have 3 
minutes to talk about something as serious as the lives of family 
members within places like Montana.

Rural schools, it hits 33 of my counties of the 56. The disaster with 
the farmers and ranchers hits the rest of the State. Virtually our 
entire State has been under a disaster since 2005.

It is always interesting to me when we debate on the floor the 
seriousness of Hurricane Katrina, or we talk about the hurricanes and 
we talk about floods. Drought sneaks up on you. It occurs during a 
period of years.

I can tell you in Montana we have seriously had to consider setting 
up crisis counseling for farmers and ranchers because of the 
emotionalism of not being able to pay for your children's food, their 
clothing, their shoes, their college education or even your own 
retirement, because it continually eats away at you.

It doesn't happen overnight like a flood or a tornado. It creeps up 
on you like a cancer. And to have an administration that doesn't have 
any more sense of urgency to understand that 2005 still has not been 
addressed, 2006 has not been addressed, and now we are in 2007 and we 
are arguing about the fact we want to veto this bill? That's cruel.

Clearly the administration needs to understand that there are 
emergencies beyond. Now, it's not without some criticism I level on the 
majority party when they tied it to the timelines in the Iraq 
supplemental. That's cruel as well, because essentially it held them 
hostage. And not one farmer or ranch group in Montana came up and said 
I want you to vote for the timelines in the Iraq supplemental because 
we need our money.



They were smarter than that. They can't be bribed. They don't want to 
be held hostage. They did not apply pressure. I thought it was unfair 
to tie it together in the first place.

So we finally come to where we need to be, and I want to thank the 
majority party for recognizing that. I hope they won't tie it again, 
because ultimately this is too important. We are in fact talking about 
lives and families and futures. The future of the State of Montana, it 
is an agricultural State. We need the opportunity to become whole by 
being able to go to the bank and to borrow the money to stay in 
business.

Please support this bill.