---
---

# None
## `974be5fbf729a1f48c5822f06a564748`
`Mr. GRAHAM — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would like to use about 10 minutes or 
so, if I may, to discuss what I think is an important topic for the 
country. The Senate has allowed itself to discuss progress in Iraq--or 
the lack thereof, depending on how you view these things--and to 
discuss a measure proposed by my good friend, Senator Russ Feingold, 
that would require us to withdraw troops, I think within a 120-day 
period, leaving troops behind in a very limited role and basically 
telling the world and our enemies we are leaving Iraq, and the people 
left behind would have a very limited function in terms of what they 
could do--a complete change in strategy. It would be saying to the 
Petraeus strategy: It failed, it didn't work, and we are going to 
replace the Petraeus strategy with the Feingold strategy.

Now, as much as I admire Senator Feingold--and that is a great deal, 
to be honest with my colleagues, because he takes his job very 
seriously, as do the rest of us, but he is willing to do and say things 
very few people will do or say, and I think that makes the country a 
better place. Sometimes I disagree with him. This is an occasion where 
I find the Feingold strategy replacing the Petraeus strategy would be a 
disaster for the country, the region, and our national security 
interests, and I say that with all due respect.

Now, one of the central theses of Senator Feingold and others who 
support this measure is that Iraq is a side venture, not part of the 
war on terror, and our presence there is making us less secure, not 
more, and that we have taken our eye off the ball. I would argue that 
the enemy doesn't see it that way. It is my belief and contention, and 
has been for a very long time, that Iraq has become the central 
battlefront in the war on terror. That happened when al-Qaida decided 
to go into Iraq after the fall of Baghdad and undermine this attempt at 
moderation in Iraq, tried to drive us out, and a year ago this time, I 
was worried that they were going to succeed.

For about 3, 3/1/2/ years, we got it wrong in Iraq. We didn't have 
enough troops. We had a training model that was not delivering quality 
in numbers in terms of the Iraqi Army. The insurgency was thriving. 
There was a lawless period. You had the Abu Ghraib episode that allowed 
al-Qaida to go on a recruiting drive all throughout the Mideast.

Thank God we changed strategy this time last year. I wish to 
compliment the President, and all of those--particularly Senator 
McCain--who spoke loudly and clearly that we needed to change strategy. 
It wasn't a debate about changing in Iraq. Everybody wanted a change. 
Some wanted to just leave and worry about the consequences later. 
Senator McCain and others said: No, we need not only to stay, we need 
to put more troops on the ground and come up with a way to suppress 
this insurgency because without security there will never be 
reconciliation. I think the results are in, and they are overwhelming, 
and they exceed all expectations I had in terms of success for the 
surge.

But to the central point: If you believe, as I do, that this is one 
battle, the central battle in regard to a global struggle, not an 
isolated event, it is a battle you can't afford to lose. If Iraq fell 
apart, broke into three parts, became a chaotic state, the national 
security implications for our Nation are enormous.

They start with the following: Al-Qaida would be on every street 
corner in the Mideast saying that we beat America and ran them out of 
Iraq. What would that do in terms of a chilling effect on moderation in 
the region? Who would be the next group of moderates to stand up and 
say: Come help me fight against extremism, America, after our behavior 
of leaving Iraq, and those who helped us to try to make Iraq a better 
place, a new place? They would surely get killed. If we left Iraq, 
withdrew, gave the battle space in Anbar to al-Qaida totally, they 
would have killed everybody who tried to help us, and it would have 
taken decades to get over the consequences of that mistake. You cannot 
leave people behind to be slaughtered by terrorists and expect to ever 
win this war.

Here is what bin Laden said in 2002 about Iraq:




 I now address my speech to the whole of the Islamic Nation. 


 Listen and understand. The most important and serious issue 


 today for the whole world is the Third World War. It is 


 raging in the land of the two rivers. The world's millstone 


 and pillar is Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.


Bin Laden did not get the memo that Iraq is not about a global 
struggle. Clearly, from his point of view, it is the defining battle in 
terms of his goals and ambition for the al-Qaida movement. The reason 
al-Qaida came into Iraq was to make sure we would lose, that moderation 
would fail. Their worst nightmare is for a mother to have a say about 
her children, and if we can pull this off in Iraq, where the different 
groups--the Sunnis, the Shias, and the Kurds--can live together under 
the rule of law, have a central government and local governments that 
work together and allow people to raise their children without fear and 
prosper together and a woman has a say about her children, that is an 
absolute nightmare for al-Qaida. They see the outcome in Iraq as very 
important to their agenda. I hope we are smart enough to see the 
outcome in Iraq in terms of our own national security because I have 
said a thousand times, you cannot kill the terrorists and win this war. 
Killing terrorists is a part of this war. The war is an ideological 
struggle. The high ground in this war is the moral high ground. That is 
why Abu Ghraib hurt so badly. That is why we have to, at every turn, 
showcase our values as being different from our enemy's. When we 
capture an al-Qaida operative, it becomes about us. The rules we employ 
in the capture of an al-Qaida member or any other terrorist showcases 
who we are, and we cannot use as an excuse they do terrible things and 
they don't believe the same things we do; therefore, we are going to 
throw the rules out and be like them. That is the one way to lose this 
war.

I am proud of my Nation standing by moderation in Iraq. I am sorry to 
the American people and all those who have gone to Iraq many times that 
we got it wrong so long. But wars are that way. The model we had after 
the fall of Baghdad allowed the enemy to grow and become stronger, and 
it made it difficult to reconcile the country, which is in our national 
interest.

A year ago about this time, a new general took over with a new 
strategy: 30,000 troops were interjected into the battle space. But it 
is not about 30,000 troops. This general understood how to win. We took 
the troops out from behind the walls, and they started living with the 
Iraqi Army and police forces in neighborhoods. We took each 
neighborhood block by block, securing people in a way where they felt 
comfortable enough to talk to us about their future, about their hopes, 
and about their dreams, and over time they helped us.

This infusion of military might into Anbar, where al-Qaida was 
roaming freely, allowed people who tasted the al-Qaida life to say: I 
don't want to live this way. The Sunni awakening was an effort by a 
very brave sheik, who is now dead, to break loose from the al-Qaida 
agenda and come to the American and coalition forces and say: I would 
like to align with you because this is not the way I want to raise my 
kids, these are not the hopes and dreams I have for my people in Anbar.

They killed him, and if you go to Anbar, there are photos of this guy 
everywhere. They killed him, but they did not kill his idea. As a 
matter of fact, at his funeral and thereafter, the people of Anbar have 
upheld this sheik as a model of the future, as a hero. Al-Qaida 
overplayed their hand. They tried to intimidate everybody around them. 
They are trying to intimidate us: Do it my way or die. Do it my way or 
watch your children die in front of you. Do it my way or we will burn 
your children right in front of you. Live my way religiously or lose 
everything you have, including your life.



You know what, the good news from the surge, beyond all other news, 
is that a Muslim population had a chance to experience this al-Qaida 
life and said no. That, to me, is the single most important event that 
has happened in the last year, that Muslims would turn on al-Qaida and 
fight them and say: You are wrong; this is not what the Koran teaches, 
this is not the way we are going to live our lives. And they have done 
something about it.

The sheik has given his life. Many others in Anbar have given their 
lives to make sure al-Qaida does not win. Al-Qaida lost in Anbar 
because we had enough military presence, along with a new attitude of 
the people who live there, to beat these guys. They are not 10 feet 
tall. They are thugs, and history is full of people such as this who 
have had ideas that certain groups are not worthy of living. The Nazis 
had their view of who could live and who would die, and it was based on 
racial stereotyping, prejudice. There have been other episodes in 
history where religious bigotry determined who lived or died.

The way you beat these people is not for the good people to come home 
and leave the battlefield to the enemy; it is for the good people to 
rally around the values that make this place worth living and fight 
these people. The way you win this war is you align yourself with 
people willing to take on the terrorists and extremists and fight back 
against al-Qaida, and that is what General Petraeus did. When the 
awakening occurred in Anbar, we put tanks around every leader we could 
find and told them: We are not leaving; we are here with you.

The Sons of Iraq is an organization that sprung up from the 
population, where almost 80,000 people now belong to this organization 
where they patrol the streets at night to make sure al-Qaida does not 
come back. Anbar is a completely different place. Al-Qaida has been 
diminished and defeated in Anbar, and they are moving to other places 
in Iraq. They are not defeated yet, but they are certainly on the run.

For America not to appreciate what has happened here, for this 
Congress not to celebrate what has happened in the last year I think is 
sad. We should be using this 30 hours to say to General Petraeus, thank 
you; to Ambassador Crocker, thank you; to all those under your command, 
thank you for having the courage and the wisdom to turn this around, 
and we acknowledge that you are turning it around. We know you have a 
long way to go yet, but thank God you have turned the corner, and we 
have turned the corner. And the corner I wanted to see turned was when 
the people of Iraq would stand up to the extremists and fight back with 
our help.

GEN David Petraeus said in May of 2007:




 Iraq is, in fact, the central front in al Qaeda's global 


 campaign.


GEN Michael Hayden, Director of the CIA, said in January 2007:




 I strongly believe [that U.S. failure in Iraq] would lead 


 to al Qaeda with what it is they said is their goal there, 


 which is the foundations of the caliphate, and in operational 


 terms for us, a safe haven from which to plan and conduct 


 attacks against the West.


It is clear to me Iraq is a central battlefront. It is clear to me 
about 3 years we were losing. It is abundantly clear to me now that we 
are winning. The Iraqi people have stepped to the plate and produced 
results that are astonishing, and it has come from a new strategy that 
has produced better security.

The monthly attack levels have been decreased by 60 percent since 
June of 2007. How did that happen? This new strategy of General 
Petraeus of getting military power out into neighborhoods, staying on 
the insurgency, giving them no rest, emboldening the citizens to fight 
back has paid great dividends. It is still a dangerous place but what a 
dramatic change: a 75-percent drop in civilian deaths since the 
beginning of 2006. From January to December, sectarian attacks and 
deaths have decreased over 90 percent in the Baghdad security district. 
How did that happen? We had a plan to secure the capital city by 
getting out from behind walls, going into neighborhoods, providing 
firepower and assistance, and the Iraqi people have done their part.

Coalition forces cleared approximately 6,956 weapon caches in 2007, 
over twice what we found in 2006. How? People are telling us where the 
weapons are because they want a new country. They see us as a solution 
to their problems, not the problem, and they are coming forward telling 
us things they did not tell us last year because they have sensed 
momentum, they feel as if they are safer and they don't want to go back 
to the old ways and they are helping us help them.

Iraqi security forces in the last year are responsible for security 
in 10 of the 18 Iraqi provinces. One of the biggest stories in this 
year has been the improvement of the Iraqi security forces, 
particularly the army. The national police have been a real problem. 
Even they are beginning to turn around. There are 100,000 new members 
of the Iraqi security forces, many of them being able to operate 
independently from us, for a total of a half a million people in 
uniform.

The Iraqi people have stepped to the plate. They are helping 
themselves in a way I admire. The casualty rate among Iraqis is three 
times that of our American and coalition forces. Every American death 
we mourn, but the reenlistment rates among American soldiers, military 
members who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, is through the roof. 
What do they see that we don't? Why do they go back so many times? I 
know what I hear. I hear overwhelmingly: Senator Graham, I want to get 
this right so my kids don't come. I hear from the soldiers, sailors, 
airmen, and marines: If we win here, it makes us safer at home. It is 
hard, it is tough, it is difficult, and they keep going back because 
they know the outcome in Iraq affects us at home. And God bless them 
for doing it.

One brief statement: Well done. You have exceeded every expectation I 
have had. You have done a marvelous job. You performed your mission 
beyond any measure. You are involved in the most successful 
counterinsurgency in military history. All those who have taken part 
will go down in military history. We should be celebrating as a nation 
what I think is one of the biggest military achievements in the history 
of the world. But we cannot quite do that. I don't know why.

Al-Qaida is diminished but not defeated, but they are on their way to 
being defeated.

The big debate has been, what will make the Iraqi politicians get 
their act together. If we threaten to leave them there, they will start 
doing business in a better way. I have always felt that if you threaten 
to leave Iraq, every moderate will be chilled and every extremist will 
be emboldened. If you want to bring back life to a diminished enemy, 
let them read some headline somewhere in the world: ''America begins to 
withdraw,'' as this Feingold resolution would suggest or as Senators 
Obama and Clinton would have suggested. You would literally breathe 
life into a defeated, diminished enemy. It would be music to their 
ears. For every moderate who has sacrificed, lost family members as 
judges, as lawyers, as policemen, as army members, it would be 
heartbreaking.

I cannot believe people do not understand the consequences to the 
world if the American Congress said: We are going to leave Iraq in a 
set period of time. I cannot believe we do not understand how that 
would resonate throughout the world. It would be music to an enemy that 
is really on the run. It would rip the heart out of those who brought 
this about. And you want political progress in Iraq to go forward? Tell 
al-Qaida we are going to leave and see what kind of progress we get in 
Iraq.

The politicians in Baghdad have been frustrating to deal with, sort 
of similar to here at home. But you know what. I am here to say 
something I did not think I would say last year: Well done. The 
debaathification law has passed. What does that mean? It means the 
Shias and the Kurds have welcomed people back from the Sunni Baathist 
Party that ran the Government under Saddam to their old jobs, made them 
eligible for their old government jobs, and they are saying to their 
Sunni Baathist neighbors: Let's build a new Iraq; let's not look 
backward.

Can you imagine how hard, I say to Senator Lieberman, that must have 
been, to have grown up in Iraq, and the people who ran the Government 
under Saddam Hussein made their life miserable and you have a chance to 
be on top; you can fire them all and make them miserable, and then 
suddenly,


after a lot of dying, you realize: Wait a minute, we have to go 
forward, not backward. The debaathification law is a huge step toward 
reconciliation.

A $48 billion budget was passed.

Politicians in the Congress can relate to one thing: money. We are 
always fighting to get our fair share for our State and our districts. 
The $48 billion budget that was passed has money allocated to every 
region of Iraq, and reconstruction can now go forward. And the 
ministries delivering the money are better than they have ever been but 
with a long way to go.

The fact that Sunnis, Shias, and Kurds would share the wealth of the 
country with each other seems to me to suggest that they view Iraq as a 
country. And to give money to someone who may have been involved in 
trying to kill your family just months ago is very difficult to do. But 
they have overcome, I think in great measure, the biggest impediment 
that every country eventually has to overcome--and that is forgiveness. 
There is a long way to go in Iraq, but we are a lot closer to getting 
there than we were last year. And the only way we are going to lose is 
for Washington to screw it up.

The provincial powers law, it passed the Parliament and went to the 
Council of Presidents. It will allow local elections in every province 
beginning in October. And I predict if that law becomes reality, Sunnis 
will vote in large numbers, and they boycotted in 2005.

The central government run by the Shias came to the conclusion that 
we are going to decentralize power; we are going to let each province 
elect their local leaders, instead of trying to micromanage everything 
from Baghdad. You know what that means? Democracy.