---
---

# NEW IRAQ STRATEGY
## `9766747ee69a62c98d77d65862272de2`
`Ms. COLLINS — 11 July 2007`

---


Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, let me start by thanking the Senator 
from Colorado for his courtesy to me this evening as well as my friend 
from Tennessee.

I rise today to join my distinguished colleagues from both sides of 
the aisle in discussing a bipartisan way forward on what is the 
greatest challenge facing our country; that is, the war in Iraq. I 
commend the two leaders of this effort, Senator Salazar and Senator 
Alexander, for their leadership in crafting a well-grounded strategy 
based on the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group.

I have repeatedly expressed my strong opposition to the President's 
strategy of sending tens of thousands of additional troops to Iraq. 
Despite that opposition and the opposition of many others, the 
administration pushed forward with its plan, arguing that the surge 
would give the Iraqi Government the time and space necessary to make 
the political compromises that are necessary to end the continued 
sectarian violence. Unfortunately, my initial concerns about the surge 
strategy have proven to be well-founded.

First, there has been a terrible loss of life among our troops over 
the past few months. In fact, 331 American soldiers were killed from 
April to June--the highest 3-month level of the war. One such soldier 
was SGT Joel House, a brave and patriotic Mainer whose funeral I 
attended in Lee, ME, just last week. Our troops have sacrificed so 
much.

Second, the fact is that the Iraqi Government has utterly failed to 
pursue the political reforms necessary to quell the sectarian violence. 
Our troops have done their part, but the fact is virtually all the 
experts agree that a solution to the sectarian violence is found in 
political reforms, not in military action. When you combine the 
increased sacrifice of our troops and the unwillingness or inability of 
the Iraqi leaders to act, it is not surprising that more and more 
Americans are questioning the President's strategy in Iraq.

It is clear our country needs a new direction in Iraq. We need a new 
strategy that will redefine our mission and set the stage for a 
significant but gradual withdrawal of our troops over the next year. We 
do not have to search far and wide for this new policy. It is right 
before us. It has already been mapped out in the unanimous 
recommendations of the bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Iraq Study Group. The 
Iraq Study Group's recommendations chart the path forward and remain 
just as viable today as they were when they were first released in 
December.

The Baker-Hamilton report sets forth three core principles for 
salvaging a measure of stability for Iraq and the surrounding region.

First, the report says the United States must shift the primary 
mission of its military forces in Iraq from combat to training, with 
the goal of removing all combat brigades not necessary for training, 
force protection, and counterterrorism activities against al-Qaida and 
other foreign jihadists by March of 2008. Shifting the mission of our 
troops to a new and more defined and narrower set of goals will 
ultimately encourage the Iraqi military to step up to the plate while 
lowering U.S. casualty rates, relieving our servicemembers of heavy 
deployment schedules, and improving the long-term readiness of our 
military.

Second, the Iraq Study Group Report states that U.S. support for the 
Iraqi Government should be conditioned on Iraq making progress in 
meeting specific benchmarks.

In May, Senator Warner and I authored legislation to require the 
President to provide two reports to Congress--one which will be 
released tomorrow and the other on September 15--on whether the Iraqis 
are meeting 18 benchmarks essential to achieving political 
reconciliation. Although we have not yet seen the report that is 
scheduled to be released tomorrow, from everything I have heard, the 
Iraqi Government is extremely unlikely to have met any of the 
benchmarks we have laid out. The Warner-Collins proposal also included 
a provision to condition the release of reconstruction funds to 
progress made by the Iraqi Government. Surely, if the Iraqis are not 
passing the political reforms that are necessary, the United States 
should not continue to provide reconstruction funds. This requirement 
which is in the law now is also consistent with the Iraq Study Group's 
recommendations.

Third, the Iraq Study Group says the United States must launch a new 
diplomatic effort in the region to ensure Iraq's long-term stability, 
or to help ensure its stability. Iraq cannot be addressed effectively 
in isolation from other major regional issues and interests. Both the 
international community and Iraq's immediate neighbors are clearly not 
doing enough to foster its stability, and it is long past time for that 
to change. Senator Salazar and Senator Alexander have incorporated 
these recommendations into legislation I have cosponsored and into the 
amendment we will be offering to the Defense authorization bill. 
How significant it is that this amendment enjoys widespread, bipartisan 
support because it is long past time for a new bipartisan approach to 
the war in Iraq.


Iraqi leaders must reach political agreements in order to achieve 
reconciliation, and their failure to do so is unfair to our American 
troops who are making such grave sacrifices. The responsibility for 
Baghdad's internal security and for halting the sectarian violence must 
rest primarily with the Government of Iraq and the Iraqi security 
forces. At the same time, it is important we continue the mission of 
fighting al-Qaida and the counterterrorism mission. But an open-ended 
commitment of American forces in Iraq simply does not provide the Iraqi 
Government with the incentives it needs to adopt the political reforms 
that give Iraq the best chance of quelling the sectarian violence. 
Ultimately,


resolving the sectarian violence requires a solution in which the Sunni 
minority is more fully integrated into the power structures and oil 
revenues are more equitably distributed among Iraq's citizens.

This war and the way it has been prosecuted has cost our Nation so 
much over the past 4 years. It has cost us the lives of our men and 
women in uniform, and it has cost us billions of dollars. While our 
Nation's Armed Forces have sacrificed gravely, they continue to answer 
the call of duty. They inspire us, but they have more than done their 
part. Many of our Nation's soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen have 
been to Iraq more than once. This, of course, has been so hard on them, 
and it has also been difficult for the families they leave behind.

We especially need to thank our National Guard members and our 
reservists. Far too much has been asked of these citizen soldiers, 
their families, and employers. Whether they are from Maine or Michigan 
or Minnesota or Mississippi, these citizen soldiers have put their 
lives on the line and their jobs and families aside to answer the call 
of duty. But we as a nation are asking too much of them given the 
failures of the administration's policies in Iraq.

We must chart a new course. Now is the time to demonstrate to these 
servicemembers and their families and to the American people at large 
that we in Congress can move past politics, partisan politics on the 
critical issues facing our country as we seek a new direction in Iraq. 
We must demonstrate that we can build a bipartisan approach to bringing 
a responsible conclusion to this war, and that is exactly what the 
Salazar-Alexander amendment would do. It is based on well-thought-out, 
careful, balanced, bipartisan, and unanimous recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group, and I hope my fellow Senators will join us in 
supporting this measure.

Madam President, again, my thanks to the chief sponsors of this 
amendment for accommodating my schedule.

I yield the floor.