---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `976cca72646a6593e22efe6a5c51c5e9`
`Mr. REID — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. REID. What this is all about is the truth. That is what it is all 
about.

Senator Durbin, assistant majority leader, on November 8, 2007, said 
this: This is Senator Durbin speaking, Mr. President.




 I ask unanimous consent that the Senate may proceed to the 


 consideration of calendar No. 336, S. 1315, at any time 


 determined by the majority leader following consultation with 


 the Republican leader; that when the bill is considered, the 


 only amendments in order to the bill, other than the 


 committee-reported amendment, be first-degree amendments that 


 are relevant to the subject matter of the bill and that they 


 be subject to relevant second-degree amendments; that upon 


 disposition of all amendments, the committee-reported 


 substitute amendment, as amended, if amended, be agreed to; 


 the bill, as amended, be read the third time, passed, and the 


 motion to reconsider be laid upon the table.


The Presiding Officer asked: Is there objection?

The Republican side: Objection.

The objections to this go back months. So what is this about today, 
the Republican leader says? It is about the truth. It is about the 
Republicans stalling everything that comes up--everything--and then to 
have the audacity to come to the floor and say: We are not stalling 
anything.

We should have been on this bill a long time ago.

And during the period of time the Republican leader complains we were 
having numerous Iraq votes, we were trying to change the course in 
Iraq, Mr. President, because it needed changing, and it still does.

We have been here I don't know how many seconds this morning, but 
every second we have been here we have been spending $5,000 in Iraq--
$5,000 a second or $12 billion a month. During the period of time he 
complains about our offering amendments related to the war in Iraq, our 
troops were getting killed at the rate of more than one a day. Tens of 
thousands have been wounded. A third of them are missing eyes. Their 
minds aren't good. One-fifth of them have brain problems--injuries to 
their brains. We have more than 3,000 double amputees and thousands and 
thousands of single amputees. We have an obligation to the American 
people to talk about the war in Iraq, and we are going to continue to 
do that.

So we don't apologize to anyone for the votes we took on Iraq. The 
first many years of this war--a 6-year war now--the war went along with 
the Republican leadership in the House and the Senate doing nothing 
about the war except patting the President on the back. We have not 
done that. We have been critical of the operation of the war in Iraq, 
but we have done everything we can to support our troops. We were the 
first to call for more body armor for the troops. We were the first to 
call for up-arming the vehicles so they wouldn't be killed as easily in 
those vehicles. We have done everything we can to support the troops. 
We have done everything we can to change the course of the war in Iraq.

The President has not allowed us to change the course of the war in 
Iraq, and we are here today for the truth. The truth is, we are trying 
to legislate for the American people and change the status quo. The 
Republicans want to maintain the status quo.