---
---

# SUPPORTING NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY
## `977e89c6c138112c4331d628dd137257`
`Mr. LIPINSKI — 28 September 2010`

---


Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1630, 
expressing support for National POW/MIA Recognition Day, which occurred 
on September 17.

With every war America wages, our Nation owes a greater debt to the 
courageous and selfless members of the United States Armed Forces who 
have fought to secure our freedom and liberty. During the course of 
these conflicts, more than 138,000 brave American service men and women 
have been detained or interned as prisoners of war. Many suffered 
through torture, forced labor, and unspeakable hardships. Some POWs 
return home; others did not. They all deserve our recognition and our 
gratitude.

Also deserving special recognition are those Americans who never 
return from war--who are missing in action. Indeed, there remain today 
over 84,000 missing in action soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines 
who are unaccounted for on the battlefields of World War II, Korea, 
Vietnam, the cold war, and the gulf war.

One particular group of American heroes I want to mention today are 
the more than 500 U.S. marines and sailors from World War II who remain 
unaccounted for on the small Pacific atoll of Tarawa. I worked with 
Armed Forces Committee Chairman Ike Skelton to include language in the 
2010 defense reauthorization urging the Defense Department to review 
new research on the location of the remains of U.S. servicemen on 
Tarawa and to do everything feasible to see that they are recovered.



The Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command, JPAC, has just returned from 
Tarawa with word that they have recovered the remains of what they 
believe to be two U.S. servicemen. I, along with the families of those 
missing servicemembers, look forward to receiving the full report on 
this mission.

It is our obligation to honor the extraordinary service of all 
American POWs and MIAs. Congress first passed a resolution 
commemorating National POW/MIA Recognition Day in 1979. Since then, the 
third Friday of every September has been set aside to give remembrance 
to our Nation's prisoners of war, unaccounted for military personnel, 
and their families and friends.

So long as members of our Armed Forces remain unaccounted for, we 
must expend every effort to bring them home to the country in whose 
defense they fought and sacrificed. It is vital that today's troops and 
their families know the U.S. will pursue all possible measures to 
fulfill the promise of recovery.

I want to highlight the unwavering commitment of the military 
commands devoted to recovering remains and providing solace and closure 
to the families of Americans who remain missing in action from previous 
conflicts. The Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command has successfully 
undertaken countless missions throughout the world to bring home the 
remains of fallen servicemembers, and the efforts of the Defense 
Department's POW/Missing Personnel Office, the Armed Forces 
Identification Laboratory, the Life Sciences Equipment Laboratory, and 
numerous veterans and POW/MIA organizations are more than deserving of 
recognition as well.

And, unfortunately, we cannot forget the two U.S. servicemen who are 
currently listed as held captive in Iraq and Afghanistan. We will 
continue to pray for a swift and auspicious end to their ordeal.

I want to thank my colleagues who joined me in cosponsoring this 
resolution, as well as House Armed Services Committee Chairman Skelton 
for his help in moving that resolution.

I want to thank Mr. Critz for his work on this issue and other issues 
in serving our veterans, and also Mr. Jones for all his work for our 
veterans.

Until they are home, our thoughts and prayers will forever remain 
with the families, friends and loved ones of those Americans who have 
suffered through tremendous hardship for their country.

I ask all my colleagues to join in support of National POW/MIA 
Recognition Day and to take a moment to reflect upon the immeasurable 
sacrifices made by America's service men and women to ensure our 
freedom.