# RECOGNIZING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF RADIO FREE EUROPE/RADIO LIBERTY
## `9793a5c2f9a01009f3b1c14255cc5211`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 3 November 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I thank my esteemed chairman for his words, and I join him in the 
declaration of support for the work of Radio Free Europe and Radio 
Liberty.

As we know, Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, also known as RFE/
RL, was established 60 years ago and was a powerful voice for freedom 
in the battle of ideas against communist tyranny.

Former Polish President Lech Walesa and Vaclav Havel, the former 
President of the Czech Republic, have all testified that by means of 
its broadcast of unbiased and independent news programs behind the Iron 
Curtain, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty played a vital role in the 
collapse of the Soviet Union and its communist allies. In fact, the 
Soviet KGB and the Warsaw Pact intelligence services, appreciating the 
threat posed by Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty to their communist 
regimes, conducted massive operations to foil its operations. They even 
resorted to violence.

Just two instances: For example, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's 
Bulgarian service correspondent was believed to have been murdered by 
Bulgarian intelligence services; and six Radio Free Europe/Radio 
Liberty employees were critically injured when a bomb paid for by 
Romanian security services exploded at the headquarters of Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty in Munich, West Germany.

Today, as our generation engages in yet another battle of ideas, 
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty continues to prove its worth. Radio 
Free Europe/Radio Liberty's broadcasts in 28 different languages reach 
people in 20 countries throughout southeastern Europe, Russia, the 
Middle East, and Central and South Asia.

Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's Afghanistan service is now the most 
popular media program in that country, and it intends to expand next 
year to reach the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region, providing a much-
needed source of independent and accurate news to compete with the 
shrill rhetoric of the extremists in that area.

Today, Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty and its personnel continue 
to suffer attacks, some mounted in new ways. Just last year, for 
example, a new style of attack, a cyberattack, was mounted against the 
Belarusian service of RFE/RL to prevent the broadcast of a rally 
against the regime in that country.

But in the more traditional style of attack, an Iranian American 
journalist was convicted and sentenced in Iran to a year in prison, Mr. 
Speaker, and her 98-year-old mother was threatened with eviction from 
her housing unit because of the journalist's antirevolutionary work 
with RFE/RL's Iranian news service.

Also recently, a Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty journalist in 
Turkmenistan was tortured by authorities who tried to coerce him into 
signing a pledge that he would stop working for Radio Free Europe/Radio 
Liberty's Turkmen service, and then they detained him against his will 
and put him in a government-run psychiatric center.

Journalists such as these, Mr. Speaker, who work for Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty are heroes, fighting with determination for 
freedom. I am proud to have authored this resolution in recognition of 
their brave efforts and proud of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's six 
decades of service in the promotion of freedom.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.