---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010--CONFERENCE  REPORT
## `979ce5a079935c5db3e8a89bb24f26b5`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 22 October 2009`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I rise today to address the Military 
and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act of 2009--the MOVE Act. Since its 
inception, the MOVE Act has garnered strong bipartisan support, and 
today we celebrate its passage as part of the National Defense 
Authorization Act.

I want to recognize the importance of this Act and also to 
acknowledge my partners in this effort especially my friends and 
colleagues, Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Ben Nelson, Senator Bob 
Bennett, and Senator John Cornyn. I would also like to thank Senators 
Levin and McCain and their staffs, as well as the House and Senate 
conferees for their time, support, and work to ensure that the 
provisions of the MOVE Act were included in the conference report.

Every now and then an opportunity emerges to work on an important 
issue with a team of colleagues towards a single goal. This bill 
provided one such opportunity, and I am extremely pleased to have 
worked with such a committed team. This legislation is a bipartisan 
solution to a serious, yet all too familiar problem--the problem of 
military and other overseas voters not being able to cast their vote 
and have that vote counted.

Every couple of years there is a great push to improve the process of 
military and overseas voting. However, as soon as the election is over, 
Congress too often neglects to push for improved rights for military 
voters. That neglect is over. The needs of military and overseas voters 
have been heard, and met, with this legislation.

While the need for Congress to act is now, this is not a new problem 
and we are not the first to identify the problem and attempt to deal 
with it. The first revolution in military voting rights occurred not 
when our soldiers were overseas. It occurred during the Civil War. At 
that time, the right to vote was provided by the Constitution, and 
soldiers from both the Union and the Confederacy depended on State law 
to determine whether they could vote ''in the field'' during wartime.

According to historians, there were two methods of voting then. In 
the first system, a closed ballot box was taken to the field of battle, 
the ballots were cast there, and the box returned to the jurisdiction. 
States at the time questioned whether the act of voting outside their 
jurisdictions could be authorized by State law.

Other objections to voting ''in the field'' were heard when a State 
constitution prescribed the place, time and manner of elections; and if 
military voting was conducted prior to Election Day, whether early 
voting would violate State constitutions.

The second type of voting was known as ''proxy voting.'' A soldier's 
completed ballot was mailed to someone, such as a family member, in the 
soldier's regular place of voting. This completed proxy vote would then 
be delivered on Election Day. My home State of New York used the proxy 
vote procedure during the Civil War. While proxy voting avoided the 
constitutional problems of voting ''in the field,'' it was subject to 
other problems: the lack of a secret ballot; the transmission of the 
proxy ballot to the place of voting, and concerns about fraud.

Given the pressure to ensure that soldiers' rights were not 
diminished by their service, States in both the North and South passed 
laws to allow for voting for Federal office. President Lincoln, in 
addition to presiding over the War Department's filing of the first 
military voting regulations on October 1, 1864, intervened with his 
generals directly to ensure that those soldiers who could vote be given 
that right.

In an 1864 letter to GEN William Rosecrans, President Lincoln wrote 
these stern words: ''I have a report that you incline to deny the 
soldiers the right of attending the election in Missouri. . . . 
Wherever the law allows soldiers to vote their officers must also allow 
it.''

Eighty years later, with the country locked in the crisis of the 
Second World War, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt sent a very 
pointed Message to the United States Congress on the same issue. It 
begins: ''The American people are very much concerned over the fact 
that the vast majority of the eleven million members of the armed 
forces of the United States are going to be deprived of their right to 
vote in the important national election this fall, unless the Congress 
promptly enacts adequate legislation. . . . The men and women who are 
in the armed forces are rightfully indignant about it. They have left 
their homes and jobs and schools to meet and defeat the enemies who 
would destroy all our democratic institutions, including our right to 
vote. [They] cannot understand why the fact that they are fighting 
should disqualify them from voting.''

President Roosevelt foreshadows the issues we are still fighting to 
fix when he further advised Congress:




 By the 1944 elections, there will be than five million 


 Americans outside the limits of the United States in our 


 armed forces and merchant marine. They and the millions more 


 who will be stationed within the US waiting the day to join 


 their comrades on the battle-fronts, will all be subject to 


 frequent, rapid, and unpredictable transfer to other points 


 outside and inside the United States.


He concluded by arguing that ''. . . What is needed is a complete 
change of machinery for absentee balloting, which will give [the armed 
forces] all over the world an opportunity to cast their ballots without 
time-consuming correspondence. . . .''

I am subjecting us all to a bit of a history lesson here because I 
believe this is a very fundamental--and yet unresolved--issue facing 
our military and our system of elections. We meet again, 65 years after 
President Roosevelt's Message to Congress, and 145 years after 
President Lincoln's directive to let soldiers vote, to again address 
fundamental improvements to military and overseas voting.

Building on the tools already in law, this legislation creates a 
system of improved access with multiple fail-safes built into the 
process. We use new technology to create more options for registration 
and ballot delivery, and at long last provide enough time for the 
military service men and women to vote. The lost letter, the late 
delivery, the ballot not notarized, and the last-minute troop transfer 
should no longer impede these voters from having their votes counted.

What we did in the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act will 
have a direct and dramatic impact on the rights of military voters.

In May 2009, I chaired a hearing in the Committee on Rules and 
Administration on the problems that military and overseas voters face. 
What we heard was nothing short of shocking.

We learned that during the 2008 general election, our military and 
overseas voters still faced a complicated and convoluted system that 
made it impossible for many of them to have their votes counted.

The committee convened a study of last year's election, which 
revealed that more than one in four ballots requested by military and 
other overseas voters were never received by local election officials 
and, thus, never counted. Let me repeat: one in four ballots requested 
were never counted. We owe our men and women in uniform more. Does it 
make sense that they are fighting for the very freedoms that we enjoy, 
yet are unable to choose their Commander in Chief? No, it does not.

If we can deploy tanks, high-tech equipment, and food to the front 
lines, we can figure out a way to deliver ballots to our troops so that 
they can be returned and counted.

The MOVE Act does precisely that, correcting many of the flaws that 
riddle the absentee balloting process for overseas voters.

By modernizing the voting process, increasing accessibility to voter 
registration and balloting materials, and requiring election officials 
to send out


ballots to military and overseas voters in time for them to be returned 
and counted, this legislation--at long last--brings overseas voting 
into the 21st century.

Consider a letter one soldier sent to the Overseas Vote Foundation 
after the 2008 election, in which that solider said: ''I hate that 
because of my military service overseas, I was precluded from voting.'' 
That solider continued, ''Of all people, deployed servicemembers should 
have a guaranteed ability to vote.''

I say here on the floor of the Senate that I absolutely agree.

The MOVE Act will ensure that military and other overseas voters know 
how to register to vote and how to request an absentee ballot. They 
will receive their ballot in a timely manner, and have that ballot 
counted on election day.

How did we accomplish that goal? Through a number of simple, 
straightforward fixes to the overseas voting process:

First, this legislation gives the right to military and overseas 
voters to request--and requires States to send--registration materials, 
absentee ballot requests, and blank absentee ballots electronically. In 
the computer age, it is long past time we used technology to speed up 
the voting process. For many troops, this quick transmission of ballots 
will give them for the first time a sufficient number of days to vote.

Second, this legislation ensures that overseas voters have at least 
45 days to complete their absentee ballots and return them to election 
officials. For those voters who have no access to electronic delivery 
of ballots, this should provide the time for a ballot to travel to Iraq 
or Afghanistan, and back to the local election official. This need was 
exposed by a 2009 Pew Charitable Trusts study aptly named ''No Time to 
Vote.''

This legislation also requires that military absentee ballots be sent 
through expedited mail procedures, further reducing the transmission 
time for voted ballots to make it back to local election officials.

In the Rules Committee hearing, we listened to the concerns of Air 
Force LTC Joseph DeCaro. One major concern he described was that there 
was no way to ensure that the ballots had been properly received by the 
election office. This legislation will allow military and overseas 
voters to determine whether their ballot has been received by the local 
election official. That way, if their ballots are not received, the 
voters can take steps to ensure a replacement vote is cast.

If a ballot is lost, or cannot be re-sent in time, we require the 
Department of Defense to create an online tool that allows military and 
overseas voters to identify all the races they are qualified to vote 
for, and submit a replacement ballot immediately. This ensures that 
troops can complete a full Federal ballot in time for the election.

The legislation prevents election officials from rejecting overseas 
absentee ballots for reasons not related to voter eligibility, like 
paper weight or notarization requirements. I ask you, how can a marine 
in Fallujah find a notary?

The legislation has the Department of Defense work with election 
officials to define and improve election data related to military and 
overseas voters. More accurate election data will reduce future 
problems and speed fixes to the voting process.

Finally, this legislation expands resources for overseas voters 
through the Federal Voting Assistance Program.

As a result of this new legislation, the Department of Defense will 
use online tools to train and inform its staff on crucial voting 
information. And all military servicemembers will receive uniform 
notices and information via e-mail prior to registration or election 
deadlines.

Finally, this legislation directs that every military installation 
have a place where soldiers can register to vote, update their 
registration information, and request an absentee ballot. Military 
voters, as they are transferred or reassigned to different bases, will 
be provided the opportunity to change their election information.

We also know that that there are improvements still to make. A pilot 
project included in the legislation will promote research into new 
technology to help assist future voters with absentee balloting. The 
tools and mandates set forth in this legislation are minimum 
requirements. And if technology can improve secure ballot transmission, 
we want that work done.

Again, it is simply unacceptable that those who fight to defend our 
freedom often face the greatest obstacles in exercising their right to 
vote.

While good work has been done in the past to improve military voting, 
I firmly believe that the MOVE Act has incorporated the best and 
strongest ideas on how to ensure a modern military receives every 
opportunity to cast their ballot. Working with States and local 
election officials, we must encourage prompt implementation of the MOVE 
Act so that the benefits of the act will impact voters in the 2010 
elections.

In our Rules Committee hearing this May, I made the public commitment 
that we would not have another Federal election without these tools in 
place for our military voters, and I am very pleased that this act was 
agreed to by the House and Senate. I again thank our colleagues in this 
truly bipartisan effort, and I look forward to President Obama's 
signature on this important piece of legislation.