---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `97a4a5b57b5e8d03f4311949e3450e8b`
`Mr. WALDEN — 28 July 2009`

---


Mr. WALDEN. Madam Speaker, consistent with the House Republican 
Leadership's policy on earmarks, to the best of my knowledge the 
requests I have detailed below are (1) not directed to an entity or 
program that will be named after a sitting Member of Congress; and (2) 
not intended to be used by an entity to secure funds for other entities 
unless the use of funding is consistent with the specified purpose of 
the earmark. As required by earmark standards adopted by the House 
Republican Conference, I submit the following information on projects I 
requested and that were included in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (H.R. 3326).

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army

Project Name: Brain Safety Net

Legal Name and Address of Requesting Entity: University of Oregon, 
103 Johnson Hall, Eugene, OR 97403

Project Location: Eugene, Oregon

Description of Project: H.R. 3326 appropriates $3,000,000 for the 
Brain Safety Net project. According to the requesting entity, the 
appropriated funds for this project will be used to help develop and 
optimize evidence-based treatments of soldiers and civilians suffering 
from amputations, traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and neurological 
disorders such as epilepsy. According to the requester, this will be a 
valuable use of taxpayer funds because it has the potential to improve 
the lives of many Oregonians including veterans injured during service 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. An individual's ability to effectively use a 
prosthetic device or manage the consequences of a traumatic brain 
injury means a higher quality of life and better opportunities for 
employment.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Army

Project Name: ONAMI Miniaturized Tactical Energy Systems Development

Legal Name and Address of Requesting Entity: Oregon State University/
University of Oregon/Portland State University/Oregon Nanosciences and 
Microtechnologies Institute, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 
97331



Project Location: Corvallis, OR; Eugene, OR; Portland, OR; Corvallis, 
OR

Description of Project: H.R. 3326 appropriates $2,500,000 for ONAMI 
Miniaturized Tactical Energy Systems Development. According to the 
requesting entity, the appropriated funds for this project will be used 
to support the development of miniaturized tactical energy systems for 
a wide range of military and subsequent commercial applications. 
According to the requesting entity, this will be a valuable use of 
taxpayer funds because Miniature Tactical Energy Systems address the 
growing problems of providing portable power (for tri-generation: 
electricity, heating and cooling) for forward-deployed Army forces.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Navy

Project Name: ONAMI Nanoelectronics, Nanometrology and 
Nanobiotechnology Initiative

Legal Name and Address of Requesting Entity: Portland State 
University; Oregon State University; University of Oregon; Oregon 
Nanosciences and Microtechnologies Institute, Portland State 
University, Portland, OR 97207

Project Location: Portland, OR; Corvallis, OR; Eugene, OR; Corvallis, 
OR

Description of Project: H.R. 3326 appropriates $2,500,000 for the 
ONAMI Nanoelectronics, Nanometrology and Nanobiotechnology (N31) 
Initiative. According to the requesting entity, this project would 
support collaborative research to generate new applications such as 
nanoelectronic devices to address the end of Moore's Law scaling, 
advanced solar cells, nanoscale chemical imaging for catalysis 
improvements in areas such as bioremediation and ethanol production, 
nanoscale biosensors for point-of-care health management, and 
biological cell imaging and measurement capabilities. According to the 
requesting entity, this will be a valuable use of taxpayer funds 
because nanoelectronics and nanomaterial-based sensors (electrical, 
magnetic, optical, thermal, biochemical) are critical developments for 
high-performance electronics and battle theater intelligence, but 
cannot be successfully deployed without commensurate advances in 
measurement and materials characterization methods (imaging, chemical 
analysis) at the nanometer scale.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Defense-Wide

Project Name: Northwest Manufacturing Initiative

Legal Name and Address of Requesting Entity: Manufacturing 21 
Coalition, 1100 SW 6th Avenue, Suite 1425, Portland, OR 97204

Project Location: Portland, Oregon

Description of Project: H.R. 3326 appropriates $2,500,000 for the 
Northwest Manufacturing Initiative. According to the requesting entity, 
funds for this project would improve the performance of manufacturing 
companies and the products they create as part of the defense logistics 
pipeline. According to the requester, this will be a valuable use of 
taxpayer funds because it is part of a long-term investment strategy 
designed by industry leaders to concentrate federal, state, public and 
private resources to serve the needs of the Department of Defense by 
building the capacity of an entire region's manufacturing cluster to 
respond to immediate and long-term national needs.

Account: Research, Development, Test & Evaluation, Air Force

Project Name: ONAMI Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing

Legal Name and Address of Requesting Entity: University of Oregon/
Oregon State University/Portland State University/Oregon Nanosciences 
and Microtechnologies Institute, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403

Project Location: Eugene, OR; Corvallis, OR; Portland, OR; Corvallis, 
OR

Description of Project: H.R. 3326 appropriates $2,000,000 for ONAMI 
Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing. According to the requesting 
entity, this project would use proactive strategies to develop 
nanomaterials and nanomanufacturing methods which are inherently safer 
and not detrimental to the environment or health; this directly impacts 
the Department of Defense's need for high-performance materials. 
According to the requester, this will be a valuable use of taxpayer 
funds because the application of this research facilitates application 
of nanomaterials and manufacturing in important defense technologies 
including energy production and storage, nanoelectronics and 
nanophotonics, medical diagnostics and therapeutics, drinking water 
purification and environmental monitoring and remediation systems. 
Additionally, nanomaterials are the key to higher performance aircraft 
structural materials, coatings, fuel systems and electronics.
