---
---

# SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007
## `97c20610dec1119902471c10ec2bd674`
`Mr. BYRD — 1 August 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, it was 122 degrees in Baghdad today. The 
Iraqi Parliament thinks it is too hot to work and has gone on vacation. 
Our soldiers don't have that luxury. Our brave men and women continue 
to patrol the hot streets of Baghdad in full battle gear. They will get 
no vacation. They continue to risk their lives in the sand and in the 
heat, supposedly to give the Iraqi politicians ''breathing room'' to 
build a political consensus. Those politicians are now on vacation.

A majority of Iraqis now say that we are doing more harm than good by 
staying in their country. Perhaps I should say that again. A majority 
of Iraqis now say that we are doing more harm than good by staying in 
their country.

Every day brings more terrible news of American casualties. What has 
the response from this administration been? ''Wait. Wait. Give us more 
time.'' Our President has been saying that for the last 4 years, and it 
is clear that he will keep on saying it for as long as we keep on 
accepting it. So I am angry. This is my 49th year in the Senate. I 
believe it is the first time I have said that. I am angry. Every Member 
of this body should be angry, angry that the Iraqi Government is on 
vacation while our troops, American troops, U.S. troops--your troops, 
my troops, our troops--fight and die in their civil war.

Everyone, including General Petraeus, agrees that there is no 
military solution in Iraq. None. Iraqis will have to make the hard 
political compromises necessary to force a national consensus. Nothing 
the U.S. military does can force them to make those compromises. But, 
rather than work to craft a political solution, the Iraqi Government 
decided to take the entire month of August off.

And where has our Congress been? I am deeply disappointed that the 
Senate has once again failed to have a real debate on the issue of the 
war in Iraq. There is no issue currently facing our Nation that more 
deserves the attention of this body, and yet we continue to have empty 
procedural votes instead of passing legislation that would mandate a 
change of course, as a large majority of Americans want. We are, in 
fact, charged by the Constitution to have that debate, and yet we wait. 
''Wait until September,'' the critics say. ''Wait until the new 
report.'' How many reports must this Congress read before we see the 
handwriting on the wall? I, for one, am tired of waiting. The American 
people are tired of waiting. Our brave soldiers and their families are 
tired of waiting.

The President and his supporters in Congress are fond of painting a 
picture of what would happen following a precipitous withdrawal from 
Iraq, and they paint with a pallet of fear. But


their picture is not reality. It is easy to win an argument against a 
straw man, but we are not calling for a precipitous withdrawal. The 
proposal that 53 Senators voted in favor of recently called for a 
phased redeployment of troops to focus on the threats that truly face 
us, not a hasty and radical complete pullout.

I opposed this terrible war from its beginning, but I recognize we 
are there now and some actions can't be so simply undone. Our first 
priority must be that of protecting U.S. interests, and the simple 
truth is that we do have vital interests in the region. The question is 
how to best protect those interests.

The President of the United States, President Bush--and I say this 
most respectfully--the President says that al-Qaida wins if we leave 
and that if we pull out the terrorists will follow us home. Let me say 
that again. The President says that al-Qaida wins if we leave and that 
if we pull out the terrorists will follow us home. Al-Qaida is our 
enemy, but are we really defeating them by trying to referee a 
sectarian civil war between Shia and Sunni that has been going on for 
over 1000 years? The President's own advisers now admit that al-Qaida 
is as strong today as it was before 9/11.

Al-Qaida is resurgent in Pakistan and Afghanistan. When the President 
of the United States took his eye off the ball and diverted our 
national attention from Osama bin Laden and his terrorist training 
operation in Afghanistan, the President dealt the security of the 
people, the American people, a major blow.

Iraq did not attack the United States on 9/11. No Iraqi, not one--not 
one--was involved in those attacks. Al-Qaida may now be in Iraq. But it 
was not there before we went in and handed them a new training ground 
for fresh recruits.

More importantly, al-Qaida is not the core of the problem in Iraq. 
Al-Qaida is not the core of the problem in Iraq, no matter how often 
the President says that it is. Former Secretary of State Colin Powell 
said recently that al-Qaida was only 10 percent of the problem in Iraq. 
The real problem in Iraq is not al-Qaida, the real problem is the 
multiple civil wars that are raging: Shiia versus Sunni, Shiia versus 
Shiia, Sunni versus Kurds.

The argument that if we lose in Iraq, they will follow us here is 
pure hogwash. Nonsense. Did you hear me? I say, did you hear me? Let me 
say it again. The argument that if we lose in Iraq, they will follow us 
here is pure hogwash. H-o-g-w-a-s-h. Hogwash.

I have heard that time and time again. If we lose in Iraq, they will 
follow us here. That is absolutely hogwash. Nonsense. What is keeping 
terrorists from coming here now? Tell me. So we heard the argument: If 
we lose in Iraq, they will follow us here. Well, what is keeping the 
terrorists from coming here now? Certainly not the fact that our 
military is in Iraq. Our military was not in Iraq when hijackers with 
box cutters flew planes into the Pentagon and the World Trade Center. 
Have we such short memories? I saw those planes attack the World Trade 
Center. I have not forgotten it.

Keeping our troops in Iraq is not what is going to keep a terrorist 
attack from happening again. So I repeat that. Keeping our troops in 
Iraq is not what is going to keep a terrorist attack from happening 
again. The real threat, the real threat, the real threat is in Pakistan 
and Afghanistan, as the President's own advisers admit.

Principled people in this country, let me say that again, principled 
people--in other words, people of principle in this country and in the 
Congress are calling for a change in strategy, not because they are 
weak, not because they are scared, not because they are callously 
political, they are calling for a change because it has become patently 
obvious that what we are doing is not making us safer, it is making us 
less safe.

They are calling for a change because it has become patently--p-a-t-
e-n-t-l-y--obvious that what we are doing is not making us safer, it is 
making us less safe.

Now, as U.S. officials absolutely wake up to the resurgence of al-
Qaida in Afghanistan and urge President Musharraf's Government to crack 
down in Pakistan, we confront great anger in the region. I think that 
statement is entitled to a rehearing.

Now, as U.S. officials slowly wake up to the resurgence of al-Qaida 
in Afghanistan and urge President Musharraf's Government to crack down 
in Pakistan, we confront great anger in the region.

Our continuing occupation of Iraq has damaged our credibility and 
aroused suspicions about the depth of the U.S. commitment to the 
sovereignty of other nations. There is a lesson here. It is this: If 
you are marching in the wrong direction or if you are fighting the 
wrong fight, unflinching persistence is not a sign of strength, it is a 
sign of stupidity.

If you are marching in the wrong direction or fighting the wrong 
fight, unflinching persistence is not a sign of strength, it is a sign 
of stupidity. Yet amazingly we hear plans of continuing for 2 more 
years our pointless, senseless occupation in Iraq.

I said it was wrong in the beginning. It was wrong from the start. It 
amazes me when we hear plans of continuing for 2 more years our 
pointless, costly, senseless occupation in Iraq.

The seas are rising and our present course is headed for an iceberg. 
Turn around. Turn around, Mr. President. Turn around.

I yield the floor.