---
---

# COLONEL JOHN D. DROLET
## `97e8950a26a1fd71f5ee79dabb2da041`
`Mr. VISCLOSKY — 17 June 2008`

---


Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with great sincerity that I take 
this opportunity to honor Colonel John D. Drolet. An Army Corps of 
Engineers officer since 1983, Colonel Drolet has spent the past two 
years as the District Commander for the United States Army Corps


of Engineers, Chicago District. Since his arrival as District Commander 
of the Chicago District in 2006, Colonel Drolet's faithful service to 
the First Congressional District of Indiana has touched the lives of 
many constituents. For his efforts, and on behalf of my constituents, I 
take this time to thank Colonel Drolet, who will be relinquishing his 
command to Colonel Vincent V. Quarles on July 1, 2008, at the Harold 
Washington Library Center in Chicago.

Colonel Drolet has devoted himself to improving the quality of life 
for everyone, not only in the United States, but throughout the world. 
Prior to joining the Chicago District, Colonel Drolet served in many 
capacities within the United States Army. After being commissioned into 
the United States Army Corps of Engineers in 1983, Colonel Drolet would 
eventually command engineers in Germany while assigned to the 237th 
Engineer Battalion. He went on from there to serve as a Program Analyst 
and Budget Analyst for the United States Army Training and Doctrine 
Command, followed by a deployment to Kosovo in 1999, where he served as 
the Theater Fund Manager for Infrastructure for the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization. From 2000 to 2002, Colonel Drolet commanded the 
Army's 169th Engineer Battalion at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri. He 
has also served as the Executive Officer for the 1st Engineer Brigade 
at Fort Leonard Wood, and as the Chief of Staff for the United States 
Army Engineer School. Prior to taking over command of the Chicago 
District, Colonel Drolet served as the Chief of the Economic Division 
for the Deputy Chief of Staff--Strategic Effects, as part of the Multi-
National Force--Iraq in Baghdad while deployed as a student from the 
United States Army War College.

Colonel Drolet's educational background is equally impressive. As a 
member of the United States Army, Colonel Drolet has completed: Army 
War College, the Command and General Staff College, the Professional 
Military Comptroller School, and United States Army Engineer Basic and 
Advanced Courses. His civilian educational accomplishments include a 
Bachelor's Degree in Agricultural Business Management from Pennsylvania 
State University and a Master's Degree in Comptrollership from Syracuse 
University, and he has also obtained a Master of Strategic Studies 
Degree from the United States Army War College. Known as a man of 
integrity and dedication, Colonel Drolet is a recipient of several 
military awards, including: the Bronze Star, the Defense Meritorious 
Service Medal, the Army's Meritorious Service Medal (with three oak 
leaf clusters), the Joint Service Commendation Medal, the Army 
Commendation Medal, the Kosovo Campaign Medal, the Iraq Campaign Medal, 
the NATO Medal, and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.

Madam Speaker, since joining the Army Corps of Engineers Chicago 
District, Colonel Drolet has been a driving force behind many projects 
aimed at improving the quality of life in the First Congressional 
District. Throughout his entire career, he has given his time and 
efforts selflessly to people throughout Northwest Indiana, the country, 
and the world. His life truly exemplifies selfless service to others, 
and on behalf of the Northwest Indiana community, I respectfully ask 
that you and my other distinguished colleagues join me in honoring 
Colonel John D. Drolet for his outstanding contributions to Indiana's 
First Congressional District.
