---
---

# IMPROVING GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
## `97f6c28c826be1ce6f58e102d85ed533`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Towns for yielding to me.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 928, the Improving Government 
Accountability Act. It is a bipartisan bill. It was favorably reported 
by the Oversight Committee on August 2, 2007, with strong support from 
Members across the political spectrum.

There is a simple reason why this bill has so much support. It 
strengthens the Inspectors General, who are the first line of defense 
against waste, fraud and abuse in Federal programs.

The last 6 years have given us examples of Inspectors General at 
their best and at their worst. Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector 
General for Iraq Reconstruction, has uncovered fraud and saved American 
taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. Clark Kent Erving and 
Richard Skinner, the former and current IGs for the Department of 
Homeland Security, have identified billions in wasteful spending in the 
new Department. Glenn Fine at the Department of Justice, Earl Delvaney 
at Interior, and Brian Miller at the General Services Administration 
have all reported courageously on abuses within the agencies they 
oversee. These and other IGs have fought waste, fraud and abuse and 
saved the taxpayers cumulatively billions of dollars.

Yet there are also IGs who seem more intent on protecting their 
departments from political embarrassment than on doing their jobs. Our 
Oversight Committee is investigating allegations that the State 
Department IG has blocked investigations into contract fraud in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. The Energy and Commerce Committee documented serious 
abuses by the former IG in the Commerce Department. And the Science 
Committee has identified serious questions raised about the close 
relationship of the NASA IG to agency management.

This bill strengthens the good IGs by giving them greater 
independence. Under this legislation, they can only be removed for 
cause, not for doing their job. And they will now have new budgetary 
independence.

At the same time, the legislation enacts in statute new mechanisms 
for holding bad IGs to account. The legislation establishes an 
''Integrity Committee'' that will investigate allegations that IGs have 
abused the public trust.

There have been several key champions of this bill. Representative 
Cooper has worked tirelessly on this issue for years and deserves our 
thanks for his efforts. I would also like to acknowledge Subcommittee 
Chairman Towns for his tremendous leadership in moving this legislation 
forward and Ranking Member Tom Davis for his commitment to strong IGs 
and his many helpful contributions.

H.R. 928 would make needed improvements to the IG Act, and I urge all 
Members to support it.