---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `97fc609d68069d619b5bc86cf0c4aff8`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Madam President, this has been called a very 
unusual occasion for us to come to the floor on a Saturday to vote on a 
resolution or to vote on any matter, but this is a very special 
occasion today because we need to vote up or down on this resolution.

I want to make it clear that while it is unusual, I believe it is, in 
fact, necessary. But I want to make it clear also that I support and 
prefer the Warner-Nelson-Collins resolution, which sets forth 
benchmarks and conditions for staying and requirements for the Iraqi 
Government and the Iraqi Prime Minister to meet in connection with 
that. But this resolution, while it may be more simplistic, still 
expresses support for the troops, a very strong statement of support 
for the troops and what they do, funding for the troops, and continuing 
to support their needs. It also states an opposition to the surge plan.

The Warner-Nelson-Collins resolution, which I prefer, makes it very 
clear that the opposition to the surge plan is sending our troops into 
Baghdad to put them in harm's way between the Sunnis and the Shias and 
the sectarian violence that has been described as being far worse than 
a civil war. We do not believe that is the appropriate plan. We have 
asked in that resolution that the President reconsider, consider all 
alternatives and other plans that might not put our troops into harm's 
way in the middle of a civil disobedience and a civil conflagration, as 
we have seen it. I thank Senators Warner and Collins for their support 
and the cosponsors of this other resolution that I have referred to.


Today, it is pretty clear there has been much debate about the 
debate. My friend from Kentucky indicated he is frustrated. We are all 
frustrated. We are frustrated because it is time to end the charade and 
move forward to the consideration of the resolution so the Senate can 
be on record with Senators voting for or against the surge plan.

The American people can see what is happening. They know some want to 
prevent a vote at all costs. There have been Members complaining about 
the vote cast a little over a week ago, cast against moving forward. 
Then they said in the Senate, it is time to have a vote after having 
voted against having a vote.

It is time to move beyond the debate about the debate and move toward 
the consideration of this resolution. It is time for the Senators to be 
on record with the question: Are you for deploying thousands of troops 
to the crossroads of civil war in Iraq or do you oppose that plan?

This is the second opportunity the Senate has had to allow an up-or-
down vote on a resolution on the Iraq surge. Let the Senate debate and 
vote on this resolution. We owe it to the American people. We owe it to 
the American people because of the importance of this resolution making 
clear that we do not support, or that we do support, putting our troops 
in harm's way in the middle of a civil war or a war that is simply 
between Shias and Sunnis, Shias and Shias, and other civil groups 
within the community. We do not have to understand the 1,400 years of 
this battle to know it is inappropriate to put our troops into the 
middle where it is impossible to identify the enemy. We put our troops 
into a situation where they are going to go door to door, hopefully 
with some support from the Iraqi troops, hopefully with some support 
from Prime Minister Maliki, hopefully with some support from the Iraqi 
Government.

In any event, the surge which the President said is going forward 
will put our troops in that condition and that situation. I, for one, 
do not believe that is an appropriate use of our troops. I believe 
today is the opportunity for the Senate to be able to say no, by saying 
yes to moving forward on this resolution.

I yield the floor.