# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `9812b929660d286eda538e431828e2bf`
`Mr. TIAHRT â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. I thank the gentleman from California.

Mr. Speaker, on February 5, the President sent a request to fund our 
troops in Afghanistan and Iraq to the House. This week, Majority Leader 
Hoyer said to a C-SPAN audience, the Speaker's plan was to get this 
supplemental funding to the President by Memorial Day. That means it 
will take 120 days to fund the President's request. In the meantime, 
not one penny is going to make its way to the troops. Why? Well, the 
President has said, in its current form, this bill is going to be 
vetoed. He will veto this bill because it funds the troops on a 
contingency basis for only 60 days; 120 days to get the request funded, 
and then it only funds it for 60 days. It will be vetoed also because 
Secretary Gates says the Pentagon cannot manage a 60-day appropriations 
bill. The bureaucracy simply will not move that fast.

This bill will also be vetoed because it has too many strings 
attached. They are attached in the form of benchmarks. And there are 
more than a dozen of them, 17 to be exact. It will take more than 60 
days just to see if the benchmarks have been accomplished.

In the 120 days we have spent haggling over this bill that funds the 
troops for only 60 days, we know it is going to be vetoed. In the 
meantime, the troops are waiting for the mine-resistant equipment that 
is funded in this bill to be manufactured and to be sent to Iraq. They 
are waiting on the equipment that they need. They are waiting on the 
equipment they need. The majority should withdraw this bill and send 
back a clean appropriations supplemental bill that funds the troops 
without the 60-day contingency, without the strings attached so we can


meet the needs of our troops. This bill does not do it.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no.''