---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `98295d7660eaa422db7cccb1ec61109f`
`Mr. JOHANNS — 22 September 2010`

---


Mr. JOHANNS. Madam President, I rise today to remember a fallen hero, 
U.S. Army 1LT Mark A. Noziska of Grand Island, NB.

Mark was a proud member of the 1st Battalion of the 4th Infantry 
Division. He was active in and around Kandahar, one of the most 
dangerous areas of Afghanistan. Sadly, Mark was killed on August 30 by 
an improvised explosive device. He had dismounted from a convoy vehicle 
to investigate suspicious activity when he was attacked. But by taking 
the lead, he likely prevented many more casualties within his platoon. 
His death is a great loss to our Nation and to my home State of 
Nebraska.

Mark loved life, he loved the Huskers, and he especially loved the 
Army. His leadership qualities became apparent early on in his life. He 
was recognized in Who's Who and selected to represent Nebraska in 
People to People while a student at Papillion High School. Before 
graduating, he was voted Mr. Monarch, a very high honor.

Mark enlisted in the National Guard in 2004 and before long was 
selected as the Nebraska Army National Guard Soldier of the Year. He 
subsequently finished as first runner-up in the Soldier of the Year 
national competition. Yet Mark had even higher aspirations. He enrolled 
in college and ROTC to become an officer. The University of Nebraska-
Omaha ROTC Program honored Mark with the Military Order of the Purple 
Heart Medal.

After graduating with his college degree, he proceeded to the 
Infantry Officer Basic Course. His family reports that being an officer 
in the U.S. Army was an obvious joy and privilege for him.

First Lieutenant Noziska will be remembered as an eager, playful, yet 
very dedicated young man. His family recalls his lust for life, his 
love of his favorite football team, the Huskers, and his commitment to 
serving his country. His young nephew longs for Mark's teasing.

To Army leadership he was an energetic lieutenant with unlimited 
potential. His decorations and badges earned during his short but 
distinguished military career speak to his dedication and to his 
bravery: the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Afghanistan Campaign 
Medal, the NATO Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Medal, the 
Army Service Ribbon, the Army Commendation Medal, the National Defense 
Service Medal, the Army Reserves Component Service Medal, the National 
Guard Individual Achievement Medal, the Adjutant General Outstanding 
Unit Citation, and the Combat Infantry Badge.

Today, I join family and friends in mourning the death of their 
beloved son, their brother, and their friend. May God be with the 
Noziska family and all those who mourn Mark's death and celebrate his 
life.

Mark laid down his life in defense of our freedom and security, and 
our Nation must never forget his sacrifice, just as we remember all of 
the Nation's fallen heroes. We have not been forced to relive the 
horror of 9/11 because heroes such as Mark offered their lives to 
protect us from it. America can never repay them. We are forever 
grateful.

I ask that God be with all those serving in uniform, especially the 
brave men and women on the front lines of battle. May God bless them 
and their families, and may God bring them home safely.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.