---
---

# None
## `982b88decb604b455f4efe906d8c88a2`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. We talk about the enormous and 
unconscionable level of American casualties there, and the number that 
we focus on are the number of men and women who don't come back, and 
not enough focus gets put on the number of American soldiers who come 
back with grave, crippling injuries. But we don't talk at all about the 
number of Iraqis who have been killed, the immense civilian casualties 
that mount not by the two or three or four a day but mount by the 
dozens every day.

And so when you see what we are seeing now, which is an Iraqi 
parliament standing up and saying enough is enough, we need the 
Americans to go home, what you're hearing is a bunch of people who are 
realizing that the best way to keep their own people safe is to have 
the Americans stand down because, on more days than not, we are drawing 
additional fire into the chaos there.

We went over and asked the generals there, we said, listen, tell us 
how much of the fire that you are seeing in and around Baghdad is a 
result of Shia and Sunni violence and tell us how much of the fire is 
directed at American forces. And the stat was pretty amazing. Ninety 
percent of the fire there is fire directed from one religious civil 
group to the next, from one sect to the other. Ten percent of it is 
directed at American forces. It's an inexcusable 10 percent, but to 
think that we are asking our men and women to stand in the middle and 
be a human shield between Shia and Sunni fighting each other, in fact 
sometimes Shia and Shia, Sunni and Sunni fighting each other, is a 
miserable way to conduct foreign policy.

And I asked one of those soldiers, I said, you know, you're being 
asked one day to try to negotiate some political settlement between 
religious groups, when the day before they were shooting at each other; 
how on earth do you tell who's shooting at who? And the soldier looked 
at me inquisitively, sort of shocked that I would ask the question. He 
said, we don't know who's shooting at us; if they are shooting at us, 
we shoot back. That's their job. That's their job, to protect them, to 
protect the people around them.

But as you said, the fact is when you can't tell who it is that's 
doing the shooting how on earth the next day are you going to be 
expected to sit down and try to mend the fences that gave rise to that 
violence in the first place?

Like I said, if anybody can do it, I think that these guys and women 
can do it. They are the most amazing, capable people that I have ever 
met in my life, but the fact is that if you don't know who's 
perpetuating the violence, it's very hard to heal those wounds the next 
day.

And to my mind, if the Iraqis are telling us that what they believe 
is necessary to make their country safe is a precipitous withdrawal of 
American forces, if our own intelligence community is telling us that 
we are less safe because of what's going on there, the Iraq Study 
Group, retired generals, American public, Iraqi parliament, 
intelligence community, there's a wall around Pennsylvania Avenue right 
now, and none of that seems to be going in there. And if we don't 
change course sooner or later, we're going to do damage that is not 
going to be even reversible by this Democratic Congress.