# EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT
## `98699ff8b17b339e79d60b2670224618`
`Ms. CANTWELL â€” 12 May 2008`

---


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise tonight to continue the 
discussion on the votes we are going to have tomorrow on this important 
legislation and, really, what will be the start of the legislative 
alternative to deal with the high price of gasoline.

I know tomorrow there is going to be a vote, and many of my 
colleagues have come to the floor talking about the high price of 
gasoline and what we need to do about it.

I know going home this weekend and filling up my own car I spent over 
$3.80, and almost $3.90 a gallon. It is not lost on the consumers of 
Washington State that this problem has to be fixed.

Many of my colleagues are talking about supply. And while I wish this 
was an issue of simple supply and demand, I think the market is showing 
us that it is not about supply and demand; that it is about the 
manipulation of oil markets and the fact that we have deregulated the 
energy futures market and created loopholes so that the speculators can 
have their say in how the market functions without the proper oversight 
that I think we need to restore.



So we are going to have a chance to talk about that later when the 
Democratic proposal is put forward before the Senate. But tonight I 
want to make sure my colleagues understand this is not an issue about 
getting more supply out of the United States. I have been on the Senate 
floor several times talking about energy executives saying that it is 
not the companies that have been holding up the supply in the United 
States or that is going to solve this problem.

But I think it is important to look at the world's oil market and to 
understand that the United States only has 3 percent of the world's oil 
reserves. We are not in the top 10 leading countries in producing oil. 
And this exaggerated chart on size shows the top countries with the 
most oil: Saudi Arabia and Iran and Iraq and Kuwait and UAE. And this 
shows by proportion, for national size, how small the United States is. 
The United States is over here because we do not have that much supply 
of oil. In fact, if you look on the chart, the top 10 countries, we are 
not in the top 10 countries in supply of oil. So the bottom line is, do 
we want to continue to be reliant on these countries for an oil supply 
or do we want to diversify? I think many of my colleagues realize we 
have to take aggressive steps to diversify a little differently.

Here is a pie chart that shows exactly where the world oil reserves 
are: 20 percent in Saudi Arabia, Iraq is another big number, Iran is 
another big number. This little red piece of the pie here, 2 percent; 2 
percent is what the United States has. So this notion that we are going 
to dramatically change this equation for the U.S. consumer or the price 
of gas by taking that 2 percent of the world's oil reserves and somehow 
maximizing it, I do not care how much you maximize it, I do not care 
how or where you drill, you are not going to change the impact on the 
price of oil today on the market when these are the other players. 
These are the people who are dominating the marketplace.

So I think it is very important that we get a handle on this 
situation. We have seen now that oil has been over $125 a barrel. At 
one point in time last Friday, oil closed at $126, and went back down.

But we keep seeing this inch up every day. You turn on the 
television, the situation does not seem as though there is any relief 
in sight. This keeps going up. This is the national average, $3.71. In 
my State I clearly saw $3.80. I will not be surprised if it is even 
higher than that. And we have to do something to give consumers relief. 
They cannot continue to afford to pay this price.

Well, we have listened now to oil company executives. I like to 
listen to what they have to say about this matter because they are the 
people who are involved in the supply and demand on a daily basis. They 
are the ones who are going out and getting this product and putting it 
in the marketplace.

Here is the CEO of Marathon Oil, who said:




 $100 oil is not justified by the physical demands in the 


 market.


It is not justified. So here we are, a lot of these executives having 
testified before various House and Senate committees saying that oil 
should be at $60 a barrel. They are saying it is not even justified at 
$100 a barrel. What is causing this problem?

I would have to say that the $100 a barrel in the market is 
definitely causing problems with various industries. Last week we heard 
from some in the airline industry who were testifying before the 
Commerce Committee. These are their first quarter losses: Delta, $274 
million; American Airlines, $328 million; United, $537 million.

When you talk to them about these losses, because these are things 
that help take care of the employees, take care of pensions, take care 
of bills, they will tell you that fuel costs used to be the second 
expense in the business. Now it is No. 1 because of the extraordinary 
costs of fuel. And these are the losses they are racking up because of 
that.

This is what one market analyst basically was saying about out-of-
control jet fuel prices:




 Should the current fuel prices persist, the impact on 


 airline industry profitability is expected to rival if not 


 exceed that of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.


This is a quote from a JP Morgan analyst. What they are saying is, I 
think people here remember how dramatic the impact was on the airline 
industry after 9/11, how people did not want to fly. Here is an analyst 
saying, if this keeps going, it is going to be worse than 9/11.

I had a flight attendant tell me the same thing this weekend. She 
said: You know, we survived 9/11 and the terrorist attacks. We survived 
bankruptcy and reorganization. Now we have to survive this. I do not 
know that we can do it if oil just keeps going up and up and up.

That is what these people are saying; that it is going to get as 
dramatic as the impact that we saw from 9/11 if we do not deal with 
this issue. Well, one way I can tell you that we are not going to deal 
with it, and not because of the legislative approach, simply because if 
it even was a solution, drilling in the Arctic Wildlife Refuge would 
only reduce it by a few pennies per gallon when it is at its full peak 
production, say, 10 to 20 years from now. And the fact that it would 
only be two pennies per gallon, if you average that out over what a 
consumer buys in a year, we are only talking about a few dollars to the 
American consumer because I go back to that chart where it shows the 
United States with only 2 percent. How can we affect the price? These 
are new updated numbers.

Basically, the fact is, you cannot affect the price by drilling in 
the Arctic Wildlife Refuge. That should tell us something. This is a 
false argument on the other side about the supply.

Our own administration, the Energy Information Administration, came 
to the conclusion that if we would drill in the Arctic Wildlife Refuge 
thinking that we were going to put world supply on the market, this was 
their conclusion, not mine.

They said: OPEC could countermand any potential price impact of ANWR 
coastal plain production by reducing its exports by an equal amount and 
basically continuing to keep the price high.

So this notion we are debating tonight, that somehow we are going to 
drill our way to energy security and lower the $120-plus barrel of oil, 
even by the account or our own Energy Information Administration, is 
not correct.

So what do we want to do? Democrats want to police the oil and gas 
markets. Democrats want to police these markets because we are tired of 
the oil company executives saying that prices are not justified. We are 
tired of analysts saying that this price is not justified. We are tired 
of looking at the results when we deregulate the energy futures market 
and allow excessive speculation without proper controls. Like we have 
on the stock exchange, like we have on other exchanges such as NYMEX 
and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, we want rules in place. We want 
rules in place so consumers can be protected.

We know hedge funds are playing a big role here. This is not my 
quote. This is from Ann Davis of the Wall Street Journal:




 Hedge funds are taking ever-larger bets in a futures market 


 that is smaller than the stock or bond markets, and the funds 


 are using borrowed money to maximize their bets, magnifying 


 the impact on [energy market] prices. That is why people on 


 this side of the aisle have talked about a few things such as 


 closing loopholes and making sure there is transparency in 


 the energy markets. The Amaranth case showed the harm of this 


 excessive speculation and large trader positions without 


 proper market controls. Amaranth was a natural gas company 


 that basically took huge positions in the natural gas market, 


 and because we had deregulated the oversight of that energy 


 trading, they were able to manipulate the market. And after 


 they got out of the marketplace because they crashed after 


 some of their manipulative activities, we were able to see a 


 huge decrease in the price of natural gas. So we know these 


 hedge funds are able to impact the price of energy, and we 


 are very concerned about that.


We know that after the electricity market crisis, we were able to put 
new rules into place for electricity and natural gas. It ended up 
having a very positive impact. In fact, this is what the chairman of 
the FERC said about that:




 The manipulative schemes in question were designed to lower 


 the prices in [a futures] market in order to benefit 


 positions held in a [physical] market.


I want my colleagues to understand how this works, but here is what 
the


chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that has oversight 
over electricity and natural gas markets said. What he was pointing to 
is the fact that people were driving up the physical price of oil by 
manipulating the futures market. When the futures market isn't 
regulated, the price is easier to manipulate. Right now some oil 
futures for 2015 delivery are well over $100 a barrel, and that is 
going to continue to dictate the price of oil markets in the future.

One analyst basically said the Government must act:




 Unless the U.S. government steps in to rein in speculators' 


 power in the market, prices will just keep going up.


If we have analysts on Wall Street telling us we should act and do 
something, they are telling us what is happening on Wall Street. Here 
is an energy analyst saying:




 Unless the U.S. government steps in to rein in speculators' 


 power in the market, prices will just keep going up.


The reason why they are saying that is there are exemptions for oil 
that aren't there for other commodities. Cattle futures is an example. 
If you want to trade in cattle futures, you are not exempt from CFTC 
oversight. You have to register at an exchange. You have daily 
reporting requirements. That is so somebody who comes in and takes a 
big position in oil to impact the price and trades around to impact the 
price can be evaluated, and the CFTC and others can understand exactly 
what is going on and there is speculative limits. But look over here at 
oil trading, not on the NYMEX but on this other international 
continental exchange, and you see none of the same requirements. So we 
have deregulated this on this side, and now we wonder why oil has gone 
from $60 a barrel to $125 a barrel. It is not supply and demand. People 
in the industry will tell you it is not supply and demand. You have oil 
company executives telling you it is not supply and demand. You have 
analysts telling you it is time for us to do something to restore the 
oversight and transparency so the markets function properly.

I hope we get to this debate on the Senate floor in the next week or 
so.

As I said, we will be out here to talk more about that because there 
are several factors in the proposals we are talking about that I think 
will be important. Obviously, closing the Enron loophole is critical, 
which we are trying to push out of this body in a final farm bill 
conference report; this will require oversight of all oil futures in 
the futures markets, which my colleagues, Senator Levin and Senator 
Feinstein, and others have been working on; getting the FTC to 
implement market rules, and they are in the process of doing that. Our 
body has to have a huge oversight in making sure the proper rules are 
put in place. We want to make sure the price-gouging legislation that 
is being proposed in the Democratic package gets passed. But having the 
Department of Justice continue to help in this effort to look at the 
fact that there has been this lack of transparency and funny business 
going on in the marketplace is going to be very important for us to 
continue to police these markets.

I urge my colleagues to think about the fact that this is a real 
crisis, that our economy can't continue to pay these prices, and that 
there is nothing wrong with bona fide speculation, but there is 
certainly something wrong with excessive speculation and with markets 
that don't have sufficient transparency and oversight or rules in place 
to make sure it is functioning correctly. That is why Democrats want to 
make sure we police the oil and gas markets to protect consumers. We 
are going to propose that through votes on the Senate floor. We are 
going to continue to push Federal agencies such as the FTC and the 
Department of Justice and the CFTC to do their jobs.


If I may, Mr. President, on a separate note, I saw last week one of 
the solar companies made an announcement on their earnings. I will not 
detail the company today, but the company was very specific in its 
announcement. It had increased record sales. They were very excited 
about what was happening in the solar market. But they announced they 
were going to lay off people, and they were going to cancel jobs. They 
said in their earnings statement, because this is what companies have 
to do, you have to give guidance to your investors. You have to tell 
them what are you are going to do for the rest of the year. This 
company made this announcement, and it said, because Congress is not 
giving predictability about the investment tax credit, we can't plan 
for the future for these projects. So we will be canceling projects, 
and we will be laying off people.

I say that tonight because I am frustrated we have not been able to 
get the production tax credits and investment tax credits passed. I 
thought we would get to this point where companies would start 
canceling projects and thought that we had until about the first 
quarter of this year and their earnings statements where, again, they 
have to give guidance and tell the public what is going on. But that is 
where we are. We need to do our job. If we believe in this situation 
where we are right now with this energy crisis out of control and the 
future being uncertain, it is time to invest in different types of 
energy solutions. I know many of my colleagues, 88 of us here, support 
getting a bill out and passed over to the House of Representatives. I 
know there has been a debate between the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on that measure and exactly how to pay for it.

What I can say to my colleagues is that when we start losing jobs and 
canceling projects that are needed for energy production, we haven't 
done our job. It is time for us to put differences aside and to get 
this investment tax credit and production tax credit passed and get it 
implemented so we can save this investment cycle and save the 
production for what is going to be much needed in future generations.

I yield the floor.