---
---

# RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF
## `986aae28f376ec1f1a6dbff8ac93271e`
`Mrs. BOXER — 4 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. I am very glad the majority leader is going to do that 
because the President--not only is he pushing us to pass his version of 
the stimulus package--and he is worried about it; he is scaring the 
American people, saying if we don't have FISA done, terrible things 
will happen. It is time to stop scaring the people and start protecting 
the people. That is what we want to do. So I am going to support the 
leader's call to move to FISA.

I believe if we have a debate on the stimulus and we don't talk about 
the biggest drain on our people--the Iraq war--we are missing the 
elephant in the room, because until we end this war once and for all 
and end this failed policy in Iraq, we are simply going to be dragged 
down further and further into an abyss, where we don't have the funds 
we need for the rest of the things we do, where our military is being 
stretched, and where we have no way out.

We actually have Republican candidates who are running for President 
saying we might be in Iraq for a hundred years. I have been around 
politics a long time--not quite a hundred years but for my adult 
lifetime. I have served with four Presidents from both parties. What an 
honor to have served with all of them. But I have never, ever worked 
with a President who didn't have a clue as to how to end a war he got 
us into--not a clue. I have never seen a President who hasn't given us 
some idea of how a war will end. So we need to remove this weight from 
around our necks. If we don't, my future, your future, the future of 
our kids and grandkids is not going to be what it ought to be.


We are spending $10 billion a month in Iraq. That is $2.5 billion a 
week and $357 million a day in Iraq. And the President and my 
Republican colleagues say we cannot afford to extend the stimulus 
package to include seniors and disabled veterans? Well, for the price 
of 1 month in Iraq, we can provide rebates to 20 million seniors who 
need it the most. Let me say that again. For the price of 1 month in 
Iraq, we can provide rebates to 20 million seniors who need it the 
most.

I hope the senior citizens within the sound of my voice have already 
contacted us to tell us to cover them in this recovery package. They 
are the ones who really need it the most because they are living on a 
fixed income and they are struggling. Some of them have to cut their 
pills in half every day they have to take them to stay alive so they 
can stretch their medicine.

Well, the President and my Republican colleagues say we cannot afford 
to extend the stimulus package to include disabled veterans. That is 
why we have these charts made up here: 250,000 disabled veterans. I 
hope they are also calling. These are the folks who should be honored, 
loved, appreciated, but not just with words but by deeds.

Mr. President, I will tell you, for less than the cost of 1 day in 
Iraq, we can provide rebates to 250,000 disabled veterans--1 day in 
Iraq. We can take care of our veterans.

That is why we don't know why this stalling is going on. What about 
our kids? For less than the cost of 3 months in Iraq, we can enroll 
every eligible child in the Head Start Program and give them the start 
they deserve. For the cost of 2 weeks in Iraq, we can provide health 
insurance for 6 million uninsured children in the United States for a 
year. The list goes on and on.

Last year, in the name of budget austerity, the President vetoed 
children's health care. But he has an open checkbook for Iraq. He puts 
it straight on the debt. He vetoed critical investments in our 
infrastructure.

Mr. President, the occupant of the chair helped me when we worked 
together on the Environment Committee with Senator Inhofe. We overrode 
a veto because the President said: Sorry, we are rebuilding in Iraq. 
But we cannot afford to fix our infrastructure here in America. The 
President vetoed education spending and health research.

I don't know about my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, but 
when I talk to families, they are very scared now about a lot of 
things. One of those things is, is someone getting cancer or getting 
Alzheimer's, or is a child getting autism, and there are a lot of other 
fears. They are real fears because they hit millions of our families. 
But the President vetoed the bill that had that health research money 
in it. We were forced to cut back.

So where are we now? We are spending money we don't have in Iraq. 
Remember when Budget Director Mitch Daniels said the war would cost no 
more than $60 billion? Paul Wolfowitz assured us that with Iraqi oil 
revenue, the war would pay for itself. Some people said the war might 
cost $200 billion, and they were ridiculed as vastly overstating the 
costs. Well, the President's most recent stimulus package is almost 
that.

The President has spent more than half a trillion dollars on his 
failed policy. There is no end in sight. It is shorting the funds we 
need to rebuild our own country--and it is borrowed money. It needs to 
stop. We are hemorrhaging taxpayer money in Iraq, and the wake is 
beyond disgraceful. For a base in Iraq that was never built, we paid a 
contractor $72 million. We paid them to build a barracks for the police 
academy in Baghdad, and instead we got a building with ''giant cracks 
snaking through newly built walls and human waste dripping from the 
ceiling.''

The administration loaded $9 billion in cash onto pallets and shipped 
it to Iraq, where it simply disappeared. And we cannot take care of 
250,000 disabled veterans or 20 million seniors, and we cut spending to 
find a cure for diseases that ail our people. We cut funding from 
afterschool programs when our kids desperately need to have a place to 
go after school.



Mr. President, the Republicans are stalling because these facts, when 
we have these debates, are coming to light. So they are stalling. Can 
you imagine what would happen if $9 billion disappeared from a Federal 
grant in Vermont or California or Minnesota or New Jersey or Ohio? The 
people responsible would go to prison. But in Iraq, the President 
shrugged it off.

The President said we lack fiscal discipline. Yet, look what he has 
done to this budget. He took a surplus and turned it into a massive 
deficit, and he took a debt we were paying down and it exploded on his 
watch.

For him to say we are not fiscally responsible because we want to 
invest in our people, we want to invest in our infrastructure, we want 
to find cures for disease, and, yes, we want to invest in alternative 
energy so we don't have to be dependent on foreign oil and we can clean 
our air of the carbon dioxide that is warming the planet--fiscal 
irresponsibility? That is the name of the game with this 
administration, whether it is the missing billions or the bases that 
were never built or this enormous embassy that is being built in 
Baghdad. It is nothing short of breathtaking. The President and his 
supporters shrug their shoulders, and yet we cannot get to the stimulus 
package because somebody said they don't understand we have added $1 
billion, 1/1/2/ pages to the bill to help poor people pay for energy. 
They have to be kidding. That is a stall.

The checkbook is open for Iraq; it is closed for America. This 
President wouldn't even be doing what he is doing now unless he is 
scared this recession is hitting.

Let me tell you what else we added to this stimulus bill that is 
being held up. We took the House language as it pertained to the 
housing crisis, and we increased the amounts that Freddie and Fannie 
and FHA can lend our homeowners to give them the chance to refinance 
these mortgages to keep responsible homeowners in their homes. We 
cannot wait on this provision. We can't wait on it. Thousands and 
thousands of cities are witnessing these foreclosures.

What happens when a home forecloses? The pool might go. The new owner 
of the home ignores keeping up the property, and it is a danger to have 
a pool that has not been attended to. Mosquitoes breed in the pool and 
the whole lawn gets all brown and the values go down and suddenly you 
have a downward spiral. We have to turn it around. But somebody has to 
hold up a bill because they have to read 1/1/2/ pages about LIHEAP, a 
program that has been around for decades and, by the way, supported on 
both sides of the aisle.

The toll this Iraq war is having on our Armed Forces is stretching 
our military to the breaking point. Recently, we learned with sadness 
in our hearts that suicide attempts among U.S. troops have reached a 
record high, a sixfold increase since 2002. Last year, the Washington 
Post reported there was a readiness death spiral, that is their term, 
that senior officers warn puts our Nation at risk because we lack the 
strategic reserve of ground forces to respond to potential crises 
throughout the world.

We are borrowing billions, putting that cost on the backs of our kids 
and grandkids, shorting our ability to take care of the people who need 
us now that the economy is in a downturn, and that hurts our security.