# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `9870bfc67f2692323b16ee1f93d2764e`
`Mr. McCAIN — 1 October 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, may I say through the Chair to my 
friend, the distinguished chairman, I understand there will be side-by-
side amendments. I would be glad to enter into a time agreement that is 
agreeable to the chairman, and not an extended length of time--it is 
not a complicated issue--and then votes on both side-by-sides. I hope 
we could announce that agreement shortly, and I thank the chairman for 
his courtesy.

We are discussing now two amendments, as I understand it, and both of 
them call for testimony before Congress on meeting the United States 
objectives on Afghanistan and Pakistan. Many of us have been very 
concerned about the fact that we have not heard from General McChrystal 
and General Petraeus on this issue of our strategic policy in 
Afghanistan, and of course most importantly the disposition or 
dispatch, I might say, of American troops, and increasing American 
troops to Afghanistan to implement the strategy that, according to 
Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was agreed 
upon last March.

I must say, without mentioning any classified information, the 
briefing that I attended yesterday with General Jones doesn't seem to 
corroborate that statement by Admiral Mullen. But the point is we need 
to hear from the architects and the commanders.

If the President does not want to talk to the commander in the field, 
General McChrystal very often--in fact, it was reported in a ''60 
Minutes'' interview that he gave he said he had spoken to the President 
once in 70 days, although the President talks to labor leaders almost 
on a daily basis pushing his health care agenda--the fact is we as 
Members of Congress, a coequal branch of government, also have a 
responsibility in this decisionmaking process.

I respect the President's role as Commander in Chief. I respect the 
President of the United States making a decision. But I also cherish 
the role of the Senate and House of Representatives in being informed 
as to the views of our military commanders in whom we place the 
responsibility for the lives of our young men and women who are in 
harm's way.

All we are seeking with this amendment is a date certain, not 
immediately--the date for this requirement of testimony by General 
McChrystal, General Petreaus, General Stavridis and perhaps others if 
necessary--by November 15. That is a month and a half from now. Should 
not we hear a month and a half from now, within a month and a half, as 
to what we are considering? I hope the decision would be made clear.

Admiral Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, in testimony said:




 The President has given us a clear mission: disrupt, 


 dismantle and defeat al Qaida . . .


But the President, in March, said of the situation--the President of 
the United States said the situation there was ''increasingly perilous 
and that the future of this troubled nation is inextricably linked to 
the future of its neighbor Pakistan.'' He also called it a ''war of 
necessity,'' and declared ''America must no longer deny resources to 
Afghanistan.''

Obviously I agree with him. Time after time I have made my commitment 
of willingness and desire to work with him. But it is very difficult 
for members of the Armed Services Committee and Members of the Senate 
to work with him if we are not informed by the uniformed commanders in 
the field. Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
emphasized in testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee, 
time is not on our side. There are already somewhere between 62,000 and 
68,000 American troops in the field in danger. Tragically, casualties 
have gone up. We have a responsibility also. We have a responsibility 
to hear from our commanders in the field.

Let me point out, General McChrystal was on ''60 Minutes'' talking 
about what we needed to do in Afghanistan. General McChrystal gave a 
speech in London just yesterday talking about what we needed to do. So 
it is OK with the administration for General McChrystal to go on ''60 
Minutes.'' It is OK for him to give a speech at the Institute for 
Strategic Studies in London. But the administration does not want 
General McChrystal and General Petreaus before the Senate Armed 
Services Committee. How does that work?

I hope my colleagues will vote for my amendment, which calls for the 
same, basically, testimony by the commander of the United States 
Central Command, commander of the United States European Command, and 
Supreme Allied Commander--Europe, Commander of the United States 
Forces--Afghanistan, and of course we would like to hear from the 
United States Ambassador to Afghanistan, Ambassador Eikenberry.

This is pretty clear. This is a very clear decision we have to make. 
We are asking that within a month and a half from now these individuals 
appear before the respective committees and testify as to what they 
believe the best strategy is to be employed in order to achieve 
victory. Why should not the Senate and the Congress and the people of 
the United States hear, directly in testimony before the Congress, what 
they believe is the best way to ensure victory in Afghanistan?

I understand the debate that is going on within the White House and 
the deliberations that the President is undertaking as he considers the 
most heavy responsibility that any President has, and that is to send 
our young men and women into harm's way. I have some sympathy. But I 
would point out there are already close to 68,000 young Americans 
there, and casualties are going up.

According to Admiral Mullen, according to every expert, the situation 
is deteriorating in Afghanistan, so this should not and must not be a 
leisurely exercise. Decisions have to be made and we--I speak for 
myself and I am sure all of my colleagues--we want to be part of that 
decisionmaking. We do not want to make that decision because that is 
the responsibility of the President of the United States, but it


is also the responsibility of the Congress of the United States to 
appropriate the money for it.

When a President lost the confidence of the American people and the 
Congress of the United States in a war long ago and far away, the 
Congress of the United States did cut off the funding for further 
assistance in Vietnam.

I hope the Senate will act in a positive fashion and act on what I 
think is a reasonable request, that within a month and a half we could 
have the testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee.

I remind my colleagues, the chairman of the House Armed Services 
Committee, the distinguished Congressman Ike Skelton, and the ranking 
member of the House Armed Services Committee, also want this testimony 
to take place. The majority leader of the House of Representatives, 
Congressman Hoyer, has also called for testimony before the Congress of 
the United States. Why the administration should be reluctant to send 
these people before us so we can, in any way we can find possible, 
support the President of the United States as he makes these tough 
decisions--which we cannot do unless we are informed of the opinion of 
those we are sending to command and lead in battle--then it is 
difficult for us to show our support for the President in the form of 
appropriations bills and authorizations as to what is needed without 
hearing from the commanders in the field.

There will be discussion about General Petreaus's testimony before 
the Congress of the United States. I remind my colleagues the decision 
was made by the President on the surge very rapidly; that the decision 
was made and General Petraeus was called before what--appeared before 
the Senate Armed Services Committee to give the reasons for that. I 
think it is very important. It is very important that the man the 
President of the United States fired, the previous commander--let's be 
clear, fired the previous commander because he had confidence in 
General McChrystal--that we should also be allowed the ability to hear 
about his vision and his strategy that would bring about a successful 
conclusion of a long, tragic, hard involvement in Afghanistan.

I hope we can have the same luxury that the Institute for Strategic 
Studies in London received with General McChrystal giving a speech 
there and answering questions; that we would have the same courtesy 
that ''60 Minutes,'' the producers and commentators on ''60 Minutes'' 
just received. I hope the Senate would receive that same ability to 
directly question General McChrystal, General Petreaus, and others.

I yield the floor.