# COMMENDING AND CONGRATULATING THE HONORABLE ROBERT WEXLER
## `9871c436d13bb4d66a4f32bb4c5ba8cc`
`Mr. McMAHON — 8 December 2009`

---


Mr. McMAHON. Madam Speaker, I rise with a mix of sorrow and optimism 
as we wish farewell to Congressman Robert Wexler, a true friend, fellow 
New Yorker--by birth--and leader on the House Foreign Affairs Committee 
as he moves ahead in the next stage of his successful career. 
Congressman Wexler leaves behind a great legacy as one of the first 
legislators to truly harness the great potential of a U.S.-Turkey 
partnership. This legacy is illustrated time and again through the warm 
reception Congressman Wexler receives from even the most skeptical 
audiences in Turkey, Israel and the Middle East. His example reminds us 
all of the power of diplomacy and American values.

As an outspoken advocate for increased dialogue between the United 
States and Turkey, he has created an environment of increased 
stability, security and friendship for all people in not only the 
United States and Turkey, but throughout the Middle East. Turkey is a 
strong partner with the U.S. in combating terrorism, particularly in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Turkey also is on the verge of a successful 
rapprochement with Armenia. Additionally, Turkey is actively engaged in 
facilitating multilateral negotiations that often complement U.S. 
foreign policy on delicate post-conflict matters, greater economic and 
trade cooperation and of course, global energy needs.

As a founding co-chair of the Turkish Caucus and the Chairman of the 
Europe subcommittee, Congressman Wexler has played a key role in all of 
these achievements. Most recently, his work to facilitate greater 
communication between legislators in the U.S. and Turkey culminated in 
last month's announcement that the Congressional Turkish Caucus hit a 
record number of 104 Caucus members since its inception in 2001.

Though the departure of Congressman Wexler is saddening and no doubt 
a huge loss to the Turkish-American community and the U.S. House of 
Representatives, I am encouraged that in his new position as president 
of the Center for Middle East Peace and Economic Cooperation he will 
continue to bestow his vision of greater peace and understanding upon 
legislators and world leaders alike.

I would like to thank Congressman Wexler for his great service to 
this country and look forward to continuing to work with him to develop 
a long-lasting diplomatic relationship with our allies in Europe and 
the Middle East.
