# RECOUNTING REASONS FOR VOTING IN FAVOR OF 2002 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING  USE OF MILITARY FORCE IN IRAQ
## `9871d4c8f99ca88221a85baf028b3c4a`
`Mr. SKELTON â€” 18 January 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend originally from 
Missouri for yielding this time.

Last year, I had the opportunity to visit the Joint Forces Staff 
College in Norfolk, Virginia. After a ceremony there, I went into the 
library, and in the glassed-off section for old and rare books I found 
a book printed in 1926 about the 1915 British misadventure at 
Gallipoli, entitled ''The Perils of Amateur Strategy.'' I have often 
thought regarding the situation in Iraq that we face today that this 
administration is not giving food for thought to some author to write a 
book entitled ''The Perils of Amateur Strategy II.''

The issue before us this evening is what would we have done, had we 
known what we know today. Had that been the case, we probably would 
never have had a resolution before us, much less voted in favor of it.

We have a wonderful military, the finest we have ever had and the 
finest in modern history. The young men and young women are dedicated, 
they are professional and they are volunteers, whether they be active 
duty, whether they be National Guard or Reserve. Gosh, I am proud of 
them. I have been with them aboard ship; I have been with them in their 
training. I have been with them in Iraq and Afghanistan and had the 
privilege of spending Christmas Day with them in Baghdad. But I wonder 
where all of this ends.

They moved the goalposts on us. The first goal was to make sure that 
weapons of mass destruction were not there, then to establish a 
democracy, and now to bring stability to Iraq. And those goalposts keep 
moving.

I am truly concerned about where we have been and much more concerned 
about where we go in Iraq. Whatever happens there, and I feel that 
there is no positive outcome for this, the star of this show will be 
the young men and young women who wear the uniform of the United 
States. History will treat them well and our gratitude should go toward 
them.

There are some mistakes that are made that are irretrievable. There 
have been such mistakes that we have made in Iraq. The first, of 
course, was going in with the intelligence that at least was available, 
not having a plan in use, despite the fact that there was a plan 
available. Lieutenant General Jay Gardner asked for the people to help 
draw it up and was finally given one person from the State Department. 
But the plan was not allowed to be used.

Looting was allowed, and then we dismissed those who belonged to the 
Baathist Party, who made the trains run and the local government run. 
Some thousands of school teachers were put out of jobs. Then the army 
was dismissed, rather than giving them a paycheck and a shovel and the 
opportunity to help bring security and stability to that torn country.



The military ammunition, weapons and caches, were not guarded. In 
September of 2003, John Spratt, Robin Hayes and I were told by David 
Kay that there were 50-some-odd caches that went unguarded, and the 
truth in fact is there were many, many more. That is where the 
insurgents got their weapons and ammunition to use against our young 
people.

We fought the insurgents, the Baathists, criminals, foreigners and al 
Qaeda helping the insurgency, and then more recently the sectarian 
violence that overlays all of the insurgency that is going on; and we 
are there trying to bring stability to that torn land.



I am hoping for a positive outcome. It is dark and misty as to where 
we are going today. I am hoping lightning will strike for the benefit 
of our young people who are there.

It is having serious implications in our readiness which we will 
explore and talk about and hope to rectify to some extent in the Armed 
Services Committee.

All of these areas, I think, are irretrievable, and I am hopeful that 
in the days ahead there will be some light at the end of the tunnel in 
this very sad misadventure in Iraq.