# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `987eaf7ef070632f22132a1b71f45121`
`Mr. REYES — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and good friend from 
Florida for yielding me time on this very important rule.

I rise in support of this rule. The terrorist plot that was recently 
uncovered in New Jersey this past week shows that we cannot let our 
guard down in the effort to learn the plans and intentions of people 
who would do us grave harm.

The underlying bill, H.R. 2082, provides funding for the brave women 
and men of our intelligence community. I have visited with them in 
every corner of the world, and I am constantly amazed by their 
patriotism, their dedication to mission, and their commitment to doing 
our Nation's most sensitive and dangerous business, often without 
public acknowledgement or recognition.

Today, the United States faces a dynamic set of threats, challenges, 
and opportunities. We are at war in Iraq and Afghanistan. We face a 
growing terrorist threat. Countries like Iran and North Korea are 
working towards a nuclear bomb. And we face a number of other key 
challenges in Africa, Latin America, and from rising powers like Russia 
and China. These major challenges require a major effort by our 
government to collect, to analyze, and to disseminate intelligence, and 
to do so within the legal bounds of our Constitution and our national 
values.

This bill invests in human intelligence. It invests in analysis and 
analysts. It funds key counterterrorism operations and sensitive 
collection programs. And it improves critical oversight in key areas 
such as the overuse of contractors and the lack of qualified linguists 
in the intelligence business.

This bill was developed on a bipartisan basis. And although there may 
not be agreement on every single point, there is agreement on all the 
major points. This rule will allow a full debate on many of the key 
issues before us, and I, along with my colleagues, should welcome this 
debate. So I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on the rule.