---
---

# ENERGY
## `987f6775d1b0986af62c60ffa82e705c`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 23 June 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I thank you very much. I'm glad to have an 
opportunity to engage again and to thank Congressman Towns.

As I have listened to both Congressman Johnson and Congresswoman Lee, 
I hope that what is gleaned to our colleagues as they listen to us is 
that there is a consensus, a meeting of the minds, that we've got to do 
something different. I applaud Congresswoman Lee's collaboration with 
her mayor, Mayor Dellums.

As I was standing here, I was reflecting on the work that our city is 
doing. We have Mayor Bill White, but I'm quite familiar with the Apollo 
Alliance, and I was just thinking that it's time now for another 
meeting to be able to join in that kind of expansive effort.

So, if the Apollo Alliance is listening, let me congratulate them, 
and let me tell them to come on down to Texas. We've had some meetings 
early on, but it's the whole concept of educating individuals to change 
their lives.

You said something else, Congresswoman, about energy. You used the 
word ''energy'' and the words ''energy industry.'' That's coming from 
what we perceive to be the oil capital of the world--Houston, Texas. I 
want you to know a lot of hardworking people are working in the energy 
industry, and they, too, see a new world of alternative fuels and also 
an opportunity to match, if you will, efficiently explored fossil 
fuels, because it does exist. There is something called ''clean coal.'' 
As I indicated to you, there is something in the gulf, outside of your 
birthplace in Texas and Louisiana, where they have been quietly 
exploring oil and gas for a number of years, and it has been efficient. 
Even during Hurricane Katrina we noted that those rigs still stayed 
safe in the gulf. So we can find ways to combine these efforts.

As I listened to Congressman Johnson and he took us chronologically 
to 2001, I want to remind him that post 2001, in 2002, there was 
created the havoc and the travesty and obviously, as he indicated, the 
crisis of the Iraq war. Whether or not the Iraq war was for oil, as has 
been debated, it destabilized the region. When you destabilize the 
region where all of the oil is coming from, you obviously dumb down the 
resources coming from that area.

But I wanted to bring to the attention of my colleagues that we know 
that Saudi Arabia, in this meeting that they've held in the last 48 
hours, has suggested that they will increase oil production by 200,000 
barrels a day to 9.7 million barrels a day, starting on July 1, in 
response to the current energy crisis.

The concern there, of course, is that China is increasing its needs, 
and even though we're sort of plateauing out, I do believe that this is 
an issue that might not be resolved by the increase in the per barrel 
per day, meaning the 200,000 barrels per day.

We need a summit. We need a summit here in the United States. We need 
to get all of the parties together, discussing these components--the 
high gasoline price, the lack of utilization of the independent 
producers, not giving capital an access to African Americans and to 
other minorities who, in fact, might be good stewards of the energy 
resources, such as those who are finding oil in the Deep South, such as 
those who are engaged in green and in alternative fuels such as wind.

I offered a bill on cellulosic ethanol, which, I think, is really one 
of the next steps. Of course, this was embodied in the Democratic 
conservation bill that included cellulosic ethanol. I know there has 
been debate over corn ethanol, but here is an approach: Through 
cellulosic ethanol, costly though it may be, it has a long-term impact.

I also believe it's important to support the legislation that has 
been offered by two of our colleagues--one to be, I believe, John 
Larson, who is moving forward on legislation that has to do with the 
speculator. We have heard, even today, oil analysts who have said that 
the speculators are adding an artificial price. In fact, the Enron 
loophole that was offered by Senator Graham has given a whole array, a 
whole new industry on speculation, and more and more energy companies 
are pulling back from that. They're dealing with their own product and 
with their own need, and I want to applaud them for that.

I want to cite Representative Van Hollen's Energy Markets Anti-
Manipulation and Integrity Restoration Act. I happen to be a cosponsor 
of that legislation. I think it's important. I voted to stop the 
filling on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which will help American 
families by temporarily diverting the 70,000 barrels of oil that goes 
to the SPR a day and putting them out on the market.

What I think is important, again, Congressman Towns, is that we're 
not


having face-to-face discussions. I asked the question of one of the 
members of OPEC: What would be the possibility of Members of Congress 
being observers at the OPEC meeting?

The OPEC meeting has large numbers of African countries. It has large 
numbers of countries from South America. Then, of course, it has those 
from the Middle East. I, frankly, believe it's somewhat similar to 
treaty discussions, that it's somewhat similar to the discussion on 
race in South Africa when they were on track, that it's somewhat 
similar to the United Nations. It would be Members of Congress' 
representing the most powerful law-making body in the world, as 
described by others, their being able to go to the OPEC meetings as 
observers and understanding the process of how this oil and gas moves.



This does not diminish the call for conservation. But I do think it 
will open our eyes.