# CONGRATULATING THIRD DISTRICT MIDDLE SCHOOL PATRIOTIC ESSAY CONTEST  WINNERS
## `9880b71a69ee2ca8daf5b4c4fcb34718`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 14 March 2008`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, this year marked the first-
ever Third District Middle School Patriotic Essay Contest. Students 
living in the Congressional ''District wrote a patriotic essay on a 
topic of their choice. Over 275 students submitted essays for this 
first time endeavor. I must give special credit to Murphy Middle 
School's award-winning teacher Donna Jenkins. Her students authored the 
most essays and contributed greatly to this inaugural contest.

Today I'm proud to share the essays from the three winners. From here 
on out they'll be preserved for antiquity in the Congressional Record. 
Someday, each winner will be able to share with children and 
grandchildren--''In middle school I wrote a patriotic essay and my work 
will always be recognized in the official Congressional Record.''

1st Place: Kayla Hudgins, 8th Grade--Age 13, Murphy Middle School, 
Teacher: Donna Jenkins, Lives in Wylie.

2nd Place: Sai Pranathi Baddipudi, 8th Grade--Age 13, Staley Middle 
School, Teacher: Tammy Brightwell, Lives in Frisco.

3rd Place: Rebecca Beverly Kow, 6th Grade--Age 12, Faubion Middle 
School, Teacher: Debbie Bennett, Lives in McKinney.

I want to thank the 275+ students who participated in the contest. 
The outstanding level of participation shows great promise for the 
future. To the winners, you're the voices of the future and I salute 
you. God bless you and God bless America.















1st Place Winner






 (By Kayla Hudgins, Grade 8, Murphy Middle School)




 Veterans mean the courage to believe in something bigger 


 than your own prosperity and to risk the ultimate sacrifice 


 of your life. These brave soldiers fought for something that 


 deserves our complete gratitude: our freedom. Veterans have a 


 powerful love for their countrymen. But still, we do not seem 


 to fully grasp the importance of their mission.



 When the veterans left to war, they never knew if they were 


 coming back alive or not. And still they went, for they 


 believed in the freedoms that the founders of this country 


 did. They went so that their families and friends could 


 remain Americans. Veterans fought, not only for their 


 freedom, but for others' freedom as well. They fought for 


 future generations and the present generation. They 


 suppressed their fears to bring peace to all of mankind.



 This love, for country and fellow citizens, is the epitome 


 of selflessness. Veterans are role models of self-sacrifice 


 and brotherly love. Their love for our country and its 


 beliefs lead some of them to give their lives for the sake of 


 others. The veterans do not know if their efforts to bring 


 peace will be in vain. They do not expect thanks for their 


 sacrifices, and that makes them all the more heroes in my 


 eyes.



 And though these brave soldiers risk everything, I am not 


 sure people fully grasp the importance of the existence of 


 veterans. The rights and freedoms these women and men fight 


 for are abused and taken for granted. We seem to forget that, 


 if not for them, our lives would most likely be run by a 


 corrupt communist government. But people continue to march 


 off to war, to protect a nation that may very well never even 


 know they were here, to keep us from invading evils.



 Veterans, to me, are the last remaining people who truly 


 understand what it means to be an American. They are the 


 remnant souls of the soldiers of the Revolution. They are 


 everything America was built upon, and they fight to keep it 


 alive. Veterans stand for life, liberty, and the pursuit of 


 happiness. They do not exist to go to war but to protect 


 thousands from its consequences. The world may never know 


 their names or stories, but they are the only thing that has 


 kept this nation where it is. What drives them, we may never 


 fully understand, but I am thankful for their determination 


 and neighborly love that has no bounds. Maybe one day, the 


 world will fully comprehend how sorrowful and devastating 


 everything would have been without them; hopefully for now 


 they will be satisfied by the innocent smile on their child's 


 face when they return. Veterans are more than heroes; 


 veterans are America.















2nd Place Winner




 (By Sai Pranathi Baddipudi, Grade 8, Staley Middle School)




 Herbert Hoover, our 31st president, once said, ''Older men 


 declare war, but it is youth that must fight and die. And it 


 is youth who must inherit the tribulation, the sorrow, and 


 the triumphs that are the aftermath of war.'' Those words 


 ring as clearly in my head as the liberty Bell rang for this 


 very nation many years ago. Everything I treasure: my family, 


 my friends, my life, wouldn't be the same if it hadn't been 


 for the veterans who jeopardized their lives in the name of 


 autonomy.



 That ultimate sacrifice made by those courageous young men 


 and women who fought not just for the well being of the 


 world, or our nation, but for each and every person that 


 resides in this country, are commemorated till this very day.



 Like many other people living in the U.S.A., I too took 


 freedom for granted. But my perspective on the matter changed 


 one Veteran's Day when my class talked about the Vietnam War, 


 the war in Iraq, and saw pictures of the shocking conditions 


 these soldiers had to endure. We also read letters that were 


 written by those soldiers, talking about the adversities they 


 were facing, and how much they missed their families, of how 


 eager they are to see their newborn baby boy or girl. Through 


 their words, I realized the true value of freedom and how 


 much people in this world were willing to give up for it; I 


 was also able to build great respect for the heroes who put 


 their lives at stake for our liberty.



 Ever since, I cherish freedom as a gift. Every day that I 


 am presented with a decision to make, I am thankful that I 


 possess the choice to make that decision. Some of the choices 


 that I have made, and that I will make in the near future 


 will alter my life tremendously. But, I am obliged that I 


 live in a country where it is a right granted to the people 


 to make the decisions that will shape their own lives. I am 


 forever in debt and thankful to those who risked their lives, 


 and to those who lost someone dear to them just so that I 


 could make the decisions that I now make freely on a daily 


 basis.



 This nation would not be near as great as it is now if it 


 hadn't been for those noble young men and women who risked 


 their lives for it. So, each day that I'm alive, I prize that 


 gift of freedom, and in remembrance of the American heroes; 


 our veterans, I offer my thanks and gratitude.















3rd Place Winner





(By Rebecca Beverly Kow, Grade 6, Faubion Middle School)

















''Patriot''




 Patriot: a word that gets jumbled in the Vocabulary Vat of 


 our brains. Most of us don't realize that it's the blood, 


 sweat, and tears sacrificed by the person to make our lives 


 easy.


 March 10th



 Dad has a new job. I wasn't paying attention at dinner, I 


 was busy forking my peas




 around, trying to make them disappear, I finally had forced 


 one into my mouth, when Dad made the announcement. I almost 


 choked. He's going to join the military. He'd deployed on 


 April 30th. He said he's wanted to do this for a long time; 


 he's always wanted to fight for our country, but I don't want 


 him to leave. I hope I'm not being selfish, but I just don't 


 think I can watch my daddy leave with no guarantee he'll be 


 back.


 April 29th



 Tomorrow Dad leaves. Today was family day, I didn't find it 


 fun. We just spent the day together, fretting about 


 everything. Now I'm trying to sleep, but when I close my 


 eyes, I see horrible images.


 April 30th



 Dad's Gone. I was kind of in a daze as we drove to the 


 airport. Before he left I gave him my necklace; it has a 


 little angel on it. He put it on and said he won't take it 


 off until he comes home. I'm trying to write through tears, 


 but it's hard because my vision's blurring. I don't know why 


 it didn't hit me until right after Dad walked away, that I 


 might not see him again.


 August 4th



 HE'S!! MISSING!! We got a phone call. They said he never 


 came back. Mom promises he's fine, I try to believe her. It's 


 okay, I tell myself, but tears keep coming.


 September 13th



 My birthday. A day to never forget. I opened the mailbox 


 praying there would be something from Dad. And . . . there 


 kinda was. It was a teeny-tiny envelope with my name on it. 


 It looked like it was holding something, a secret waiting to 


 be told, so big it was about to burst at the seams. I opened 


 it and my necklace fell out. My mind turned to mush, he said 


 he'd wear it until he was home, but why was it mailed, what 


 if he was home . . . just in spirit. OH NO! Thoughts swirled 


 around in my head like a blender, and I sat down on the curb 


 and cried. Later, there was a knock on the door, I slowly 


 opened it. On the other side was something unbelievable; Dad. 


 There he was standing there, home. He had a cast on his leg 


 and bandages everywhere, but he smiled as if he'd won the 


 lottery. That's when he became my hero.




 A patriot is a person that loves and defends their country. 


 It means so much to me, these people, risking their lives for 


 us. These people do things that I wouldn't have the courage 


 to do, and I would like to say something to them; thank you.
