---
---

# None
## `98978a286175a4e09e3a2cdc5dc97e41`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, this week we in Congress are continuing 
to work toward a solution in Iraq that both supports our troops and 
changes our mission away from policing a civil war to more narrowly 
focusing on what should be our first and foremost goal--fighting 
terrorism, counterterrorism, to make sure al-Qaida cannot set up a camp 
and strike at us.

I rise today because we are beginning. We have said all along that 
this is going to be a long battle. Because we do not have 61 votes in 
the Senate, because the President has the veto power and we certainly 
do not have 68 votes to override a veto in the Senate, we are going to 
have to continue to bring up resolution and amendment after resolution 
and amendment until we persuade our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle to do what the American people want, to do what the American 
people asked for in November of 2006; that is, dramatically change the 
course in Iraq, the mission--greatly reduce the number of troops so we 
can keep some troops there who can fight terrorism, but that will be 
many fewer. Most will be out of harm's way.

We are getting good signs. First, 6 months ago President Bush said he 
wouldn't accept any benchmarks or any limitation. Now the word from the 
White House seems to be that they will accept some types of benchmarks 
or other types of language that would not just be a simple funding the 
troops without our other goal, changing the mission. But second and 
more significant, what I and my colleague from Washington--and I 
believe my colleague from Illinois will be speaking about--are seeing 
is our Republican colleagues begin to set their own timetables, their 
own deadlines. This weekend, House minority leader John Boehner 
signaled that, as this debate wears on, the President will continue to 
lose support among the members of his own party.




 By the time we get to September or October, members are 


 going to want to know how well this is working and, if it 


 isn't, what is plan B?


That sure seems similar to what we are trying to do, although we want 
to do it now.

Mr. Boehner's comments are echoed by a number of other Republicans 
who are hearing back in their States and districts that we must change 
the mission in Iraq. There are many comments.

Trent Lott:




 I do think this fall we have to see some significant 


 changes on the ground in Baghdad and other surrounding areas.


There are many more. One of those is Jim Walsh, from my home State of 
New York. Today, the New York Times reports that Mr. Walsh is replying 
to his constituents that he could soon be prepared to reassess our 
policy and begin withdrawing our troops.

Republican Congressman Ray LaHood is indicating he expects Republican 
members will grow increasingly ''nervous'' about the President's 
strategy.

Asked about the President's demand for a funding bill with no 
benchmarks, no conditions, and no reports, says Senator Collins, who 
just spoke here:




 Many of us on both sides of the aisle don't see that as 


 viable.


We are going to try to come up with a very strong resolution that 
both supports our troops and changes the mission. But we know we are 
making progress because our Republican colleagues themselves have been 
setting timetables, benchmarks, and other types of goals--limitations 
that are not terribly dissimilar from ours.

We will continue this battle, this struggle to require the President 
to change course in Iraq. We eagerly await our Republican colleagues 
joining us.

I yield the floor.