# RECOGNIZING AND HONORING MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS
## `9898a39f1e39bb439068e9bb2a00d2af`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support 
of House Resolution 1385, to recognize and honor the courage and 
sacrifice of the members of the Armed Forces and of the veterans of our 
wars. Next week, we will be celebrating Memorial Day, and it is fitting 
that we take time to remember all those who have served this Nation in 
uniform so honorably and selflessly.

I look forward to being with the Navy League of Hilton Head Island, 
South Carolina, at the Veterans Memorial Park next Monday. Last year, I 
was inspired to be with fellow members of the American Legion in 
Hampton, South Carolina.

We stand here today enjoying the fruits of freedom because good men 
and women from the Revolutionary War to present day have put the 
support of America and the ideals for which she stands above personal 
desires and preferences.

While estimates vary, it is certain that more than 1 million 
Americans have died in defense of this Nation. You may have known some 
of them. If you did, you should count yourself among the privileged. I 
hope you were as touched by their sacrifices as I have been by those I 
have known, people like Marine Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Trane 
McCloud--a military fellow in the congressional office I represent. He 
was killed in Iraq on December 3, 2006.

To Lieutenant Colonel Trane McCloud and to so many others like him 
over the years of our history, we owe so much. It is a debt that we can 
never really repay to extraordinary military families and widows, such 
as Maggie McCloud.

The only way I know how to even begin to express our thanks is to 
continue to support to the fullest extent possible those who now serve, 
to step forward and to publicly acknowledge their dedication and 
sacrifices for America. We should recognize and be grateful that, due 
to the sacrifices of American servicemembers, there is a broader spread 
of democracy and freedom today than in the history of the world, with 
dozens of new democracies, upon the defeat of Communism in the Cold 
War, from Poland to Mongolia and Bulgaria to Cambodia. Iraq and 
Afghanistan have been liberated from totalitarian despots in the global 
war on terrorism.

That's why what we are doing in this resolution and what we will do 
next week on Memorial Day is so important.

As the son of a World War II Flying Tiger who served in China, as a 
31-year veteran of the Army Reserve and the Army National Guard, and as 
one with four sons currently serving in the military, I especially 
appreciate military service.

I want to thank Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton and 
Ranking Member Buck McKeon for cosponsoring this resolution, and I urge 
my colleagues to support it.

In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we will never forget 
September 11th.