---
---

# FIND WAYS TO COME TOGETHER ON IRAQ
## `989f27f4b4d88bfe0ae3febea9318367`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. I thank the gentleman.

I will close by thanking each of our colleagues to join with us this 
evening. Of the American people are accustomed to tuning into these so-
called special orders and seeing a Democratic hour, which is usually 
spent beating up Republicans, and a Republican hour, which is usually 
spent beating up Democrats.

Tonight they saw something different. They saw Mr. Dent talk about a 
status of forces agreement, which Democrats can agree with. They saw 
Mr. Bishop talk about the one-for-one agreement, which has bipartisan 
support. They saw Mr. Shays discuss an idea to have the Iraq Study 
Group reassess conditions, which has Democratic support. And they heard 
the historic perspective of Mr. Gilchrest, a perspective that only a 
Marine that was wounded in Vietnam can properly give to the United 
States Congress.

The point is that I believe that without sounding overly 
enthusiastic, that in the past hour there was more bipartisan, 
reasoned, rational discussion of ideas to move us forward rather than 
left or right than has happened on the floor of this House over the 
past 4 years. That is precisely what the Center Aisle Caucus was 
created to generate.

Tonight we close by sharing our principles: That we support our Armed 
Forces. We will take care of our veterans. More assistance passed in 
today's appropriations bill to veterans than at any time in the 77-year 
history of the Veterans Administration, passed unanimously by the 
Appropriations Committee today. We will secure Iraq's border. We want 
to stand up Iraq's security forces. We understand the need for regional 
change. We will push for that. We understand the threat of Iran. And we 
want to defeat al Qaeda.

Today's discussion was not about left or right, it was about moving 
forward. I know the gentleman talked about the servicemember that he 
represents who was lost in Iraq. Again, I would ask the American people 
to continue to support our Armed Forces.

I can think of no better evening and no better person to inspire this 
special order than Matthew Baylis, who we lost in Iraq last week, and I 
believe he would be very proud of what we are doing this evening. As I 
said before, I don't know whether he was a Democrat or a Republican. I 
have no idea whether his family are Republicans or Democrats. I do know 
that they would be proud that this evening, Democrats and Republicans 
joined together to talk about a way forward, without a single one of us 
calling another one a name.
