---
---

# HONORING COLONEL BRIAN D. ALLGOOD
## `98b0d11d385e63d95e07b9a66e65d63f`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Colonel 
Brian D. Allgood, who passed away on January 27, 2007, in Baghdad, 
Iraq, in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Colonel Allgood died of 
injuries sustained when his helicopter crashed. Brian's wife and son 
reside in Heidelberg, Germany, and his parents, Gerald and Cleo 
Allgood, reside in Colorado Springs, Colorado.

Colonel Allgood graduated from West Point in 1982 and from the 
University of Oklahoma Medical Center in 1986. After completing his 
residency, Colonel Allgood continued his military career as a doctor in 
the Army. He was not only a doctor but was a first-class soldier who 
parachuted into Panama as a battalion surgeon in the 75th Ranger 
Regiment during Operation Just Cause in 1989. After rising through the 
ranks, Brian became a full colonel in 2002 and served in top medical 
commands in Korea and Germany before becoming the command surgeon of 
Multi-National Forces Iraq.

Colonel Allgood comes from a strong military family and followed in 
the footsteps of his father, who was a Army doctor and a Vietnam War 
veteran.

Colonel Allgood was a remarkable soldier, an exceptional doctor and a 
devoted husband and father who served in the Army to keep this Nation 
free and sacrificed his life for our safety and security.

I thank Colonel Brian D. Allgood for his service to our country, and 
I offer my deepest condolences to his family.
