---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `98b52e894b6494295230631f0eb5ea8c`
`Mr. CUMMINGS — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Armed Services 
Committee and a member of the Board of Visitors of the United States 
Naval Academy, I rise today to express my unwavering support for the 
men and women who wear the uniform of our proud Nation and to make 
clear my staunch opposition to putting more of these men and women in 
harm's way in Iraq.

In the absence of a clear and meaningful strategy for success, it is 
time to extricate our troops out of this civil war and redeploy them 
out of the occupation of Iraq.

Back in 2002, I joined my colleagues in the Congressional Black 
Caucus in formulating a brief and succinct statement of principles 
regarding the Iraq war. Within these principles we expressed our clear 
opposition to a unilateral first strike action in the absence of clear 
evidence of an imminent threat to the United States. We further stated 
that any post-strike plan for maintaining stability in the region would 
be costly and would likely require a long-term commitment of our troops 
and treasure.

Today, it is very clear that the overthrow of Saddam Hussein has 
provoked sectarian divisions in the Iraqi society that are now 
expressed daily through violence on a staggering scale. It is also 
clear that our efforts to stabilize Iraq has, indeed, required the 
massive commitment of both lives and taxpayer dollars that we 
predicted.

What was not clear then but is clear now is that this administration 
had no definite plan for achieving our stated objectives in Iraq.



The administration had lofty rhetoric, but no strategy for creating a 
stable democracy that could be our partner in the war on terror.

Mr. Speaker, I raise these points to remind our Congress that from 
the beginning of this war there have been voices raised not in 
opposition to our President but in demand of a strategic approach to 
the growing threats we face, opposition and demand of an honest 
assessment of what could be accomplished with military force, and in 
demand of a clear purpose for why we send our troops into harm's way, 
our young men and women, the future of our Nation into situations where 
they may seriously be injured or killed. These are the very points that 
the resolution before us today demands.

I have no illusions about the danger inherent in the growing number 
of nations that may soon have the capability to construct weapons of 
mass destruction. To the contrary, I am convinced that maintaining the 
peace in this increasingly dangerous world has become a precondition to 
our continued survival.

The question is, given the situation in which we find ourselves in 
Iraq and given that our primary consideration must always be the 
security of our Nation, is sending additional troops into action most 
likely to stabilize that nation and the region? Is it the action most 
likely to cause Iraqis themselves to take the essentially political 
actions that only they can take to create a government capable of 
governing? Is


it the action likely to initiate the reconciliation between Sunni and 
Shiite, and the most recent National Intelligence Estimate says is 
critical to reducing the violence in Iraq?

I have seen no compelling evidence that the answer to any of these 
questions is ''yes,'' and many of our top military commanders have 
testified that sending 21,500 more United States forces to Iraq will 
not create a path to success.

Our forces have done all and more than we have asked them to do, and 
their families have been patiently sacrificing for 4 long years. The 
voters spoke in November, and we as Members of Congress of the United 
States do not have the right to remain silent. We cannot allow more to 
be asked of our soldiers now if their mission is not clear. The 
President has no plan likely to produce victory. And if, as the 
National Intelligence estimates suggest, the Iraqi forces and the 
government are not capable of being partners in their own 
reconstruction, I urge my colleagues to support our troops by 
supporting this resolution.