# SCHIP VETO
## `98c0ebbaa20f58e2f73db40558bccae5`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 4 October 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I wish to commend the Senator from Rhode 
Island for voicing his concerns about the veto of the children's health 
bill that is so important to so many children, and I appreciate his 
strong statement.

I think yesterday was a sad day for all Americans. For reasons I 
can't comprehend, President Bush yesterday decided to veto our 
bipartisan effort to invest in health care for the Nation's children. 
With no fanfare, behind closed doors, when no one was looking, the 
President put his personal politics ahead of increased investment in 
our most precious asset, our children.

I was so proud last week when, with bipartisan support in good 
margins in both Houses of Congress, we passed the Children's Health 
Insurance Program. That bill is an example of how Government ought to 
work.

Leaders in the House and in the Senate, both Republicans and 
Democrats, worked together to find a compromise that could work for 
everyone at the table. Nobody got everything they wanted, but the final 
product was worthy of support and pride on all sides.

I had hoped that after seeing the tremendous work that went into this 
compromise the President would think of the kids in every State of the 
Union who needed basic health care and reconsider his position.

I had hoped he would think about the families who are struggling to 
make ends meet and reconsider his position.

I had hoped that in the end he would reconsider his plan to say no to 
our children and to our families. But yesterday those hopes were 
dashed.

All children should be able to see a doctor when they are sick, and 
all children should be able to get the medicine they need to make them 
better. When a child gets a cut that requires stitches or comes down 
with a fever or an earache or with any other imaginable problem, they 
ought to be able to get help, period.

Unfortunately, as we all know, today in America--the richest and most 
successful country ever--that is not the case. In fact, millions of 
American children do not have health insurance, which means millions of 
American kids cannot see a doctor when they are sick, and millions of 
American children don't get the medicine they need to help them get 
better.

It doesn't matter if you are a Republican or a Democrat, whether you 
are a progressive or conservative, I believe making sure our children 
get health care is the moral thing to do.

This veto that the President penned yesterday has real and serious 
impact on many families in my State and across the country. Because 
President Bush vetoed that bill, 3.8 million uninsured children are 
going to continue to live without coverage. Let me say that again. 
President Bush told 3.8 million children in America they cannot have 
health care. To me, that is just shameful.

When I came to the floor a couple of weeks ago to talk about this 
important bill, I told the story of a woman in my State, Sydney DeBord, 
who lives in Yakima, WA. She is a young girl who has cystic fibrosis. 
Her mom wrote to me to tell me how important this children's health 
insurance program was to her family. She said it allowed her daughter, 
Sydney, to get and extend her life, and it allowed her to live her very 
tough life to the fullest. I want to quote again from that letter 
because I believe she speaks for those more than 3 million children and 
their families on this dark day.

Ms. DeBord said:




 I know for a fact that without this bit of assistance her 


 life would end much sooner due to the inability to afford 


 quality health care for her. As her parent, it frightens me 


 to even think some day she may be without health care 


 coverage if programs like CHIP are no longer available.


Today, I share Ms. DeBord's fears, and all other parents do as well.

We have another chance. The President doesn't have the final say on 
this one. Right now, Members of the House of Representatives are 
working to find the votes to override this veto, perhaps, and hopefully 
end the fears of Ms. DeBord and millions of moms just like her. They 
need a few more votes. If they get a few more votes, we can tell the 
President that investing in families and investing in America is a 
priority of the men and women of this Congress no matter how many 
vetoes he sends our way.

It is very troubling to me that the President continues to ignore the 
wishes of the American public. The American people and the vast 
majority of Congress want to expand stem cell research to find cures 
for diseases affecting so many in our Nation. The President says no.

The American people and the vast majority of Congress want to change 
course in Iraq and bring our troops home safely. The President says no.

The American people and the vast majority of Congress want investment 
in roads, bridges, medical research, and education. The President says 
no.

The American people and the vast majority of Congress want to provide 
health care for our young children today. The President says no.

So we need a few more Republicans to join us and to join the American 
people in telling the President he is wrong and he cannot stand in the 
way of progress for our young kids. I hope the disappointment felt by 
kids and their families today is going to be washed away in the weeks 
to come by another bipartisan show of support for this outstanding and 
critical health care program in America.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.