# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `98cdfc71eddffa6b5c023fc4d0a5212d`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congressmen Al Green and 
Frank Pallone for arranging this Special Order hour. Today I rise to 
register my concern about the conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center and to show my support and dedication to increasing the quality 
of health care services, for our veterans as well as our men and women 
in uniform.

The Nation has been horrified by the Washington Post's recent reports 
of the appalling conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Thanks 
to the diligent investigative reporting of Dana Priest and Anne Hull, 
we now know that our soldiers recovering in outpatient units are being 
forced to confront cockroaches, mice droppings and toxic black mold as 
they heal. Even worse, many become lost in an uncaring military 
bureaucracy that subjects them to long waits just to get their most 
basic needs addressed.

The administration is now scrambling to control the damage from this 
scathing expose of its neglect of our wounded warriors. Almost as 
distressing as the conditions at Walter Reed is the fact that it took a 
report from the Washington Post to get the administration to address 
this unacceptable situation. We now know that our wounded warriors have 
been complaining about these problems for years, not just at Walter 
Reed but at military hospitals and outpatient facilities across the 
country. Their pleas, however, seem to have fallen on deaf ears. We owe 
a debt of gratitude to the reporters and editors at the Washington Post 
for uncovering this abominable situation and forcing this 
administration to act.

Time and again, when those of us who oppose America's involvement in 
Iraq stand up and question why our brave men and women in uniform must 
fight and die in a war of choice, we are accused of ''not supporting 
the troops.'' But, Madam Speaker, supporting the troops is about more 
than lip service. The hypocrisy and irony of the situation at Walter 
Reed is scandalous and immoral. The same administration that hides 
behind the troops to avoid changing its policy in Iraq is guilty of 
abandoning the very men and women who must make the sacrifices required 
to carry out this failed policy.

The sheer audacity of the administration's rhetoric in comparison 
with its actions is staggering. The administration trumpets its support 
for the troops but then, in the next moment, sends them into battle 
without the proper training and equipment. The administration says it 
supports the troops, but then falls short in providing them with a safe 
environment to heal the wounds they received while fighting so 
valiantly and selflessly for our country.

Thousands of our brave men and women serving the administration's 
failed policy in Iraq have paid a heavy price. Since March of 2003, 
23,677 service members have been wounded in Iraq. Our military and VA 
health care systems are ih crisis, apparently unprepared for the influx 
of casualties that war unavoidably creates. These health systems have 
been overwhelmed by troops returning from battle seeking health care 
and, in many instances, are unable to provide these men and women with 
the services they so desperately need. It is estimated that in the 
coming years over 700,000 veterans from the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan will enter the military and veterans health care system. 
Yet, because of Republican budget cuts, many of our brave soldiers are 
returning home with mental health ailments to discover that they will 
receive a third fewer psychiatric visits than they would have just 10 
years ago.


The number of soldiers navigating the bureaucracy of Walter Reed 
since 2001 has nearly doubled, yet the administration continues to move 
forward with the planned closing of the hospital. The president's 
budget continues to shortchange veterans' health care, providing an 
increase in fiscal year 2008 but then cutting the budget in fiscal 
years 2009 and 2010 to below the 2008 level and freezing the funding 
level thereafter. The administration's lack of planning for the war 
seems to include a total disregard for the service members who are 
returning home bearing the scars of the conflict.

Mr. Speaker, our soldiers have done their duty. Now we must truly 
support them, not by blindly continuing a failed policy, but by getting 
them out of harm's way. We will continue to insist that our service 
members receive the health care they deserve. We will continue to hold 
oversight hearings about the conditions faced by our wounded service 
members and veterans at Walter Reed as well as at other military and 
veterans health facilities across the country. But the best way to 
support these brave young men and women is to begin a fully-funded 
withdrawal. Let's really support our troops by giving them the 
equipment and supplies they need to get out of Iraq safely in the next 
6 months.
