# MICHAEL BILIRAKIS DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS SPINAL CORD INJURY  CENTER
## `98cecd47914f843245c13f64b62b39d7`
`Mr. YOUNG of Florida — 24 June 2008`

---


Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 
4264, legislation to designate the ''Michael Bilirakis Department of 
Veterans Affairs Spinal Cord Injury Center'' at the James A. Haley 
Hospital in Tampa.

First, I want to commend my colleague from Florida, Jeff Miller, a 
distinguished member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, for 
introducing this legislation to honor our former colleague and my 
friend Mike Bilirakis.

There is no member of this House who devoted more of his time and 
energy to improve the quality of care for our Nation's veterans than 
Mike Bilirakis. Long a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, he 
made the establishment of the Spinal Cord Injury Unit at Tampa one of 
his highest legislative priorities.

As a result of these efforts, we have at Tampa the finest center of 
its kind anywhere in our Nation taking care of seriously injured 
veterans. We are thankful that Mike had the foresight to pursue this 
project as it has become a critical center in taking care of returning 
heroes from the war against terrorism in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Naming the Spinal Cord Injury Center for Mike Bilirakis will be a 
lasting tribute to a man who never forgot our Nation's commitment to 
our veterans. It is also a special honor to a member of this House who 
did not seek acclaim or recognition. He just worked hard every day for 
the people of his district and for the veterans who wore the uniform.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join in approving this 
legislation to honor one of this House's quiet heroes who is a champion 
of those who bore the uniform in the past, do so now, and will into the 
future.