---
---

# PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE BILL VETO
## `98d61f96951f89c3d77556ce8854cd89`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. I think you have hit a very important point in 
talking about what this law was originally designed to accomplish. This 
law was not designed to open the floodgates for any potential claim 
arising from persons engaged in armed conflict around the world against 
the countries where that conflict occurred. In fact, this law that 
allowed these claims to be pursued in the first place set a very high 
bar before you could even begin to pursue them.

Number one, there had to be a declaration by the State Department 
that the nation involved in torture was a state sponsor of terrorism, 
which, as you know, that is an incredibly harsh accusation to make in 
the world community. So in order for the State Department to reach that 
conclusion, they would have to be presented with overwhelming evidence 
that a country was engaged in the state sponsor of terrorism. And when 
the Saddam Hussein regime in Iraq invaded Kuwait, that is when the 
State Department acted to declare, based upon what was happening and 
what was outraging people all over the world, that indeed that 
government was a state sponsor of terror at that time. So that was the 
first threshold that these hostages and POWs had to meet.

The second was that they were tortured under the definitions of 
international law, which is much more egregious than simply being 
involved in a firefight and being wounded or having something that is 
expected to happen in the normal course of conflict, which is always an 
impossible arena to control. But we are talking about a deliberate 
decision to torture individual citizens in violation of all accepted 
principles of international law.

And then after you pass those two hurdles, these victims of torture 
also had to prove that the acts that they were being tortured for would 
be the type of claims that they could pursue in the courts of law of 
this country.

And the gentleman from Minnesota, Madam Speaker, made another 
excellent point, and that is this is consistent with the pattern of 
behavior we have seen from this administration for the past 7 years to 
take away the rights of individuals who have been harmed due to no 
fault of their own and to substitute the judgment of this body and 
State legislatures for what juries have been doing in this country 
since before it was formed. And what I like to remind my colleagues is 
there is something that we all take an oath to defend when we serve in 
this body. It is called the United States Constitution. And part of 
that Constitution is something we hold and cherish, which is the Bill 
of Rights. And it includes the freedom of speech that we all cherish 
every day on this floor. It includes the freedom of religion, the 
freedom to associate, the freedom of the press. It includes the right 
to bear arms. But it also includes the seventh amendment to the 
Constitution that guarantees that juries get to determine facts like 
what the issues are we are talking about here today, what is fair 
compensation for someone who has been subjected to torture.

Madam Speaker, one of the things that I think is most disturbing 
about the issues we are talking about on the floor tonight is that the 
President and his spokesperson don't like to talk about what happened 
to these POWs. It is unpleasant, and it brings to mind in the hearts of 
all Americans, how could we let this happen to people serving this 
country who have put up with so much and been through so much and then 
get them to the point where they can hold their offenders accountable, 
and who comes in and pulls the rug out from under them? Not the Iraqi 
Government, but the President of the United States who directed his 
Attorney General to intervene in these claims and see that the assets 
were not available to satisfy them.

Let's just take a moment, Madam Speaker, to talk about one of those 
victims that I mentioned earlier, Colonel Cliff Acree. Here is what he 
said in that 60 Minutes interview that I referred to earlier: They had 
broken my nose many times and I was just getting used, you just kind of 
get used to it.

Colonel Acree was shot down the second day of the war. The 
interrogations always began the same way, and these are his words: They 
would have these six or eight people just beat you for 10, 15, 20 
minutes. Just no questions asked. Bring you into the room and beat you 
with fists, feet, clubs, whatever.

One of the other victims, Dale Storr, that I mentioned, who was 
serving in the National Guard at this time said: Hearing Cliff talk 
about it, we never really talk like this before in such detail. But it 
brings back memories. It is almost like I am back in my cell again.

Another victim, Jeff Tice, who was captured after his F-16 was hit by 
a


surface-to-air missile, and, Madam Speaker, he was tortured with a 
device called the ''talkman.'' And what they would do is they would 
wrap a wire around the ear of one of these prisoners, another wire 
underneath their chin, then wrap it around the other ear and hook it up 
to an electrical device. Then they would start to question him. And 
this is what Jeff Tice said: They would turn on the juice. And what it 
does is it creates a ball of lightning in your mind or in your head, 
drives all the muscles simultaneously together, and it drives your jaw 
and everything together, and of course I am chained to a chair. I can't 
move freely. So everything is jerking into a little ball, and your 
teeth are being forced together with such force, I am breaking pieces 
and parts off.

Jeff Tice's jaw was dislocated so many times that he was lucky, as he 
said, that they were able to put it back into place.

And now, I am going to yield to my colleague from Minnesota. After 
hearing some of these descriptions and having had the experience of 
having young students of yours that you taught in Minnesota join the 
Minnesota National Guard, which along with the 133rd of the Iowa 
National Guard has served the longest single deployment of any combat 
unit in the war in Iraq, what type of message does that send to those 
young men and women who you helped to train, you helped to educate, and 
who are going off to serve their country, knowing that if they get 
captured and held as a POW their Government is not going to be there 
for them?