---
---

# None
## `98dc30afd3f1b5bc26fbc2229f59516a`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 13 July 2010`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Madam Speaker, Iran continues down a dangerous path that 
must he confronted with resolve and action. Unfortunately, instead of 
supporting the national interests of the United States, the Obama 
administration has attempted to aid hostile regimes over allies, 
supported dictators over democracy, and been more interested in talking 
to our adversaries than supporting our long-standing friends in the 
Middle East. To redirect U.S. foreign policy in the region, I am 
pleased to be a co-sponsor of H.R. 2194, the Comprehensive Iran 
Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act, which we are considering 
today.

The threat posed by Iran is clear. First, we know that Iran is 
developing nuclear weapons. In 2009, Dennis Blair, Director of National 
Intelligence testified before Congress that ''Iran has the scientific, 
technical, and industrial capacity to eventually produce nuclear 
weapons.'' He went on to say that Iran could soon have enough highly 
enriched uranium for a nuclear weapon.

Second, we know that Iran has advanced short and medium-range 
missiles, and is rapidly developing capable longer-range missiles. Iran 
has already deployed the Shahab-3 missile, which has a range of over 
one-thousand miles. This missile can strike Israel and allies in Europe 
as well as American troops deployed in the Middle East, Asia and 
Europe. In February, Iran launched its first satellite into space. 
There are just relatively minor technological steps between a space 
launch and an inter-continental ballistic missile launch. In fact, a 
recent Air Force report said Iran's ''ambitious ballistic missile and 
space launch development programs'' could allow them to have an inter-
continental ballistic missile capable of hitting the United States by 
2015.

Third, we know Iran is the world's most active state sponsor of 
terrorism. According to our own State Department, ''Iran's involvement 
in the planning and financial support of terrorist attacks throughout 
the Middle East, Europe, and Central Asia had a direct impact on 
international efforts to promote peace, threatened economic stability 
in the Gulf, and undermined the growth of democracy.'' Iran provides 
aid in the form of weapons, training, and funding to Hamas and other 
Palestinian terrorist groups, Lebanese Hezbollah, Iraq-based militants, 
and Taliban fighters in Afghanistan--and those are the ones we know 
about.

Finally, we know that Iranian leaders continue to call for the 
destruction of Israel. Israel is our most important ally in the Middle 
East. The United States has a strategic and moral responsibility to 
stand with them against all threats and aggression.



To counter this clear Iranian threat, I am pleased the House is today 
considering the conference report for H.R. 2194. This legislation will 
dramatically limit Iran's ability to import and produce refined 
petroleum products by requiring the president to impose sanctions on 
companies helping Iran in these areas. The bill also adds three new 
sanctions to limit Iranian access to the U.S. banking system and 
foreign exchanges, and toughens the sanctions regime by requiring the 
president to investigate any reports of certain sanctionable activity 
for which there is credible evidence and make a determination to 
Congress whether such activity has indeed occurred.

While the Obama administration has failed to alter Iranian action 
through appeasement, H.R. 2194 will take serious actions. Although a 
large oil producer, Iran is dependent on imported refined petroleum 
products. With these new sanctions in place, the Iranian economy will 
be dramatically hindered and hopefully Iran will be forced to change 
course especially in regards to nuclear weapons program.

While I join with my colleagues in strong support of this 
legislation, I am disappointed with two aspects of this conference 
report. First of all, the timing. This legislation was introduced 14 
months ago and passed on the floor of the House six months ago. All of 
these delays were at the behest of the Obama administration due to 
their continued opposition to the bill. The administration finally 
allowed the legislation to move forward only after securing an 
important concession providing the President extensive waivers, which 
is my second concern.

Originally containing limited waiver authority, Democrats added much 
more extensive presidential waivers. This is a farce and undermines the 
legislation. The administration has shown time and time again its 
interest in appeasement and opposition to a strong sanctions regime. I 
fear this important legislation will just be waived like so many other 
sanction laws aimed at Iran.

While I support this conference report, I call on the administration 
to not utilize any waiver authority and allow every sanction in this 
bill to take effect. This legislation is the clear will of Congress and 
the American people, and should be carried out to its fullest extent by 
the administration.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 2194 is not perfect, but it is a good step 
forward in protecting U.S.-vital interests. Therefore, I encourage my 
colleagues to support final passage.
