---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `98e0cc4737f6b141eb6bce0944330d39`
`Mr. HOYER — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I share the previous speaker's sorrow. I'm sorry that the policies 
pursued by this administration have not done what he wanted to do, 
support our troops. We sent too few, we equipped them too little, and 
we have left them too long and trained them for too short a time. Yes, 
I'm sorry.

The American public expects us, the Congress of the United States, to 
do something, not simply to say yes to failed policies, but to, on 
their behalf, speak out and try to take us in a new direction.

Mr. Speaker, there is not a Member of this body on either side of the 
aisle who does not pray for our success in Iraq and who does not pray 
for the safe return of our brave service men and women. However, after 
the loss of more than 3,200 American soldiers and more than 24,000 
injured and after the expenditure of more than $400 billion on a war 
now entering its fifth year that Secretary Rumsfeld told us would take 
just a few months. With open arms and cheering in the streets, this war 
would be over and the mission would have been accomplished almost 4 
years ago, said the President of the United States, who now asks us to 
rubber-stamp, no strings attached. Do it, as Mr. Putnam said, before 
supper. That is not what the American public expects of us. They expect 
better. They expect a new direction. They expect us to think, not 
simply say, amen, Mr. President.

The Defense Department says: ''Some elements of the situation in Iraq 
are properly described as a civil war.'' None of us who voted for the 
original authorization voted to put our troops in the middle of a civil 
war, not one of us.

The Iraq Government has failed to meet political goals. It is our 
responsibility to ask them to do so because we want to support our 
troops. And if the Iraqis do not meet their responsibilities, our 
troops will not be supported. A National Intelligence Estimate 
concludes that this war is increasing, this is the National 
Intelligence Estimate, increasing the global war on terror. The Army 
Chief of Staff has issued strong warnings about the effect of the war 
on America's overall military readiness. Mr. Murtha has talked about 
that for at least the last 2 years.

My friend, the ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, with 
whom I served for a quarter of a century on that committee, he must 
share


the concern about military readiness that all of us share and know that 
we are eroding our military readiness every day. Thus, the question 
before the Members today is this: Will we change direction in Iraq, or 
will we continue to stay the course with a failing policy?

Mr. Speaker, I believe the answer is clear. It is long past time that 
this Congress assert itself and assist on accountability and a new 
direction in Iraq. More blank checks from this Congress would 
constitute an abdication of our responsibility and our duty. Four years 
of abdication is enough. It is time, my fellow Members, for Congress to 
assert its support of our troops by adopting policies that will keep 
them safe and enhance their success.

This legislation, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and 
Iraq Accountability Act, will protect our troops, requiring deployments 
to adhere to existing Defense Department standards, not our standards, 
Defense Department standards, standards for training, equipment and 
armor, while allowing the President to waive these standards, which are 
his own, the administration's standards, if he believes it necessary. 
That is the right thing for us to do.

The bill also holds the Iraqi Government accountable, measuring its 
performance by the standards President Bush outlined in his January 10 
speech, not our standards for Iraq, but the benchmarks that the 
President of the United States has set. But if they are only rhetorical 
benchmarks with nothing behind them to require that action, then we are 
wasting our time in supporting our troops because that will not do it.

The bill provides a responsible strategy for a phased redeployment of 
U.S. forces and refocusing our efforts on fighting al Qaeda. That is 
who attacked us, not the Sunni or Shia, but al Qaeda.

Some claim that this legislation will micromanage the war. That 
assertion is absolutely false and without ground. Our Commander in 
Chief, General Petraeus and our military commanders on the ground will 
retain all the flexibility they need to succeed. This legislation in no 
way undercuts their discretion on the ground. The only strings attached 
concerning troop readiness and the Iraq Government's progress have been 
endorsed by President Bush. Others assert that inclusion of a timeline 
for responsible redeployment is tantamount to capitulation. Mr. Hobson 
spoke on this floor just a few minutes ago. He voted to set a time line 
in Bosnia. Mr. Lewis sits as the ranking member of this committee; he 
voted on June 24, 1997, to set a timeline. Mr. Hastert, Speaker of the 
House, set a timeline. Mr. Delay voted for a timeline. Mr. Blunt voted 
for a timeline. Mr. Boehner voted for a timeline.

Every one of them voted for a timeline, and what were the 
circumstances? We hadn't lost a single troop, not one. We had spent $7 
billion, not $379 billion. We had brought genocide to a stop, ethnic 
cleansing to a stop, and we were not losing people and we had a stable 
environment, yet they voted for a timeline.

Here, Secretary Gates says in testimony at his confirmation hearing: 
''We are not winning.'' If that is the case, it is time for us to have 
a new strategy, a new direction, a new paradigm, if you will. That is 
what this bill does.

Mr. Boehner said just a few weeks ago, in terms of timelines, he 
said, ''I think it will be rather clear in the next 60 to 90 days as to 
whether this plan, the current escalation, is going to work.'' ''We 
need to know,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''as we are moving through these 
benchmarks that the Iraqis are doing what they have to do.'' Nothing in 
this bill will undermine that 60- or 90-day expectation that the 
minority leader, the Republican leader, has articulated. Under this 
legislation, if the Iraqis meet their benchmarks for progress, the 
redeployment of American forces will not begin until a year from now. 
This is not any precipitous withdrawal. And, indeed, if there is total 
success, it will be more than a year from now.


Finally, let me point out, as I have said earlier, that timelines 
were supported in July of 1997, 220-2. Only two Republicans voted 
against setting a timeline. I voted against that timeline. And I said 
''at this time.'' Why did I say that? Because we were succeeding. We 
were not losing troops. We had stopped genocide. We had stopped ethnic 
cleansing. We had a stable government in Serbia. We were winning and 
our strategy was succeeding. And under those circumstances, I thought 
timelines were not appropriate. But there is not a military general I 
have talked to who has said that we are succeeding. Today, this very 
day, the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq lies deeply wounded, life at 
risk. If a Member of Congress goes to Baghdad, they will not drive you 
from the airport to the Green Zone. Why? Because they do not believe it 
is safe, almost 50 months after we started this operation.

My friends, it is time for a new direction. I urge my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle support the troops, represent America, 
represent your people who want to win but do not want to leave our 
troops in the middle of a civil war. Support this well-thought-out 
crafted piece of legislation, which in no way undermines the ability of 
our troops to manage this war, but says to them, we will expect the 
Iraqis to perform and we will give you a time frame in which the world 
will know that they must themselves take responsibility.

Mr. LEWIS OF California. Mr. Speaker, I recognize my colleague from 
California (Mr. Royce) for 2 minutes.