---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `98e1e97a9785110c5fa1459af7689ede`
`Mr. AKAKA — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, before I address the proposed funding for 
VA in the budget resolution for fiscal year 2008, I applaud Chairman 
Conrad and his colleagues on the Budget Committee for their hard work 
on this resolution. The measure before us today clearly reflects the 
right priorities and directions for our Nation.

For a number of years, I have made the case for the President to 
include funds for VA health care as part of the war supplemental 
packages he has submitted to Congress, and every year, my colleagues 
and I fought to get those funds included in the budget resolution to no 
avail.

The pending budget resolution finally recognizes that caring for 
returning service members and veterans is part of the cost of war and 
in turn proposes to fund VA health care appropriately for this effort.

Right now, a great deal of attention is being paid to the needs of 
our men and women in uniform--attention that Chairman Conrad, myself, 
and other Members of this Chamber have been talking about for quite 
some time. I am proud to stand with Chairman Conrad in support of our 
service members and veterans.

One of the harshest realities of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is 
the number of service members who have sustained complex and multiple 
injuries in combat.

In stark contrast to past conflicts, significant improvements in 
battlefield medicine have enabled very seriously wounded service 
members to survive their injuries. Subsequently, these men and women 
are coming home with extraordinarily complex health care needs.

We know that right now, there have been 1,882 identified and 
registered cases of service members who have suffered from traumatic 
brain injuries, or TBI, alone. This does not include those who have 
suffered from a milder form of this injury and may not even be aware of 
it. While TBI is becoming the signature wound of the current conflicts, 
many of these soldiers also have been rendered blind or lost a limb as 
a result of their injuries and the numbers of those who are coming back 
with serious and multiple wounds continues to grow.

In recognition of the emerging medical and rehabilitative needs of 
veterans with traumatic brain and other


injuries, Congress directed VA to establish specialized centers for 
rehabilitative care. VA's four lead Polytrauma Rehabilitation Centers 
are essential to meeting the needs of the most severely injured 
veterans and their families.

In the budget before us today, Chairman Conrad and his colleagues 
have provided over $300 million specifically for meeting the needs of 
these veterans and service members who are in need of the comprehensive 
health care and rehabilitative services VA delivers through their 
Polytrauma Centers.


This level of funding will enable VA to conduct assessments and 
screenings of troops for traumatic brain injury, provide veterans with 
intensive comprehensive TBI/polytrauma rehabilitation, and most 
importantly, support intensive case management for veterans with TBI 
and other injuries when they return to their communities and continue 
the rehabilitation process.

Recent reports by the VA inspector general and others have 
illustrated that case management is a key element in the process of 
assisting these veterans achieve the fullest possible recoveries. 
Funding VA so that it can provide the continuum of care needed by the 
most severely injured service members is imperative if we are to truly 
fulfill our obligation to take care of our troops and veterans.

I am also very pleased that the budget resolution before us is making 
a long-overdue investment in mental health care.

Studies published in some of the most prestigious journals have found 
that a third of those seeking VA care are coming for mental health 
concerns, including PTSD, anxiety, depression, and substance abuse. We 
do not know the full magnitude of this need, as many returning service 
members have yet to seek care from VA.

As chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, my goal is to make 
sure that VA is doing everything possible to guarantee that each and 
every veteran who needs mental health care--whether in North Dakota, 
Vermont, or Hawaii--can receive that care.

I remind my colleagues that so much of the time, battle wounds 
manifest themselves as invisible wounds--wounds which cannot be seen 
but are every bit as devastating as physical wounds. PTSD affects not 
only a veteran's mental status, it affects his or her physical well-
being as well. It impacts the veteran's relationships, his or her 
ability to work, and to interact in society. VA must catch readjustment 
issues early before they turn into full-blown PTSD, and this budget 
resolution would enable VA to take a serious approach towards making 
this happen.

When we talk about the mental health needs of veterans, we cannot 
deny the reality that substance abuse is prevalent among many veterans. 
We know that many veterans with PTSD turn to drugs or alcohol in order 
to self-medicate. Yet the administration does not seem to want to be in 
the business of helping veterans with substance abuse problems. VA used 
to provide an intensive month-long program to treat substance abuse. 
Today, most VA substance abuse programs run for 2 weeks--not nearly 
enough time to put a veteran truly on the road to recovery. Again, this 
budget resolution provides funds for comprehensive inpatient substance 
abuse care. This is a very real investment in VA mental health care.

On the benefits side, the current claims inventory and the time it 
takes to process a claim is unacceptable. Veterans deserve a timely and 
accurate response to their claims. It is obvious that Chairman Conrad 
agrees, as this budget resolution takes a major step toward responding 
to this very real problem by providing appropriate funding for VA to 
use to employ additional claims adjudicators.

There are 30,000 more claims pending right now than last year this 
time. This constitutes an 8 percent increase. As the veterans 
population continues to age and new veterans come home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, this trend of increased claims will continue. Given that 
it takes nearly 2 years for a new VA employee to start fully 
contributing to the bottom line, now is the time for new staff to be 
hired and trained to help reduce this caseload.

Just 2 weeks ago, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a hearing 
on the VA claims adjudication process. During the hearing, VA witnesses 
testified to the nearly 400,000 ratings claims inventory and the 175 
days it takes to process a claim for benefits. We must insist that VA 
have no more than 250,000 claims in the pipeline at once, and that it 
take not more than 125 days to adjudicate a claim. VA clearly needs 
additional resources to hire the employees needed to adjudicate claims 
in a timely manner, which this budget resolution certainly provides.

Mr. President, I am very pleased with the investment in veterans 
programs that is made in this budget resolution. I again commend 
Chairman Conrad and the Budget Committee for sending the right message 
to our Nation's veterans--that we are honoring our commitment to them 
by making a real investment into their care. I urge my colleagues to 
support swift passage of the resolution before us today.
