---
---

# None
## `98ef66ee5755b62bd04ca0f5dacf92b8`
`Mr. ALEXANDER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, with this political stunt tonight, the 
Senate has reached the approximate level of the Iraqi Parliament in 
dealing with the war on Iraq. There will be no more votes for a fixed 
deadline for withdrawal from Iraq at 3 a.m. than there would be at 3 
p.m. This demeans and trivializes the foremost issue facing our 
country. It does not show the proper respect for the men and women who 
have been fighting there and their families.

Here we are, issuing milestones, talking about benchmarks to an 
infant democracy on the other side of the world, issuing reports and 
report cards about how well they are doing on what we have told them to 
do, talking to them about why they haven't passed oil sharing and 
debaathification and why they have not had more elections, and we 
cannot come up, ourselves, with a consensus about what we are doing in 
Iraq.

Here we are, the oldest democracy in the world, alleging ourselves--
the Senate--to be the greatest deliberative body in the world, and we 
are lecturing Iraq, a new democracy, an infant democracy. We are 
lecturing them for not coming up with a consensus when we can't come up 
with one ourselves.

I think it is important for the American people to know it is not 
necessarily that way in the Senate. I began this day at 8 a.m. at a 
breakfast, as I did last week, as I did the week before, which we call 
our bipartisan breakfast. This morning we had about a dozen Republicans 
and Democrats around the table--only Senators. Last week, we had two 
dozen around a table. Our subject was Iraq and the Defense 
authorization bill.

I will not say any more about what was discussed because one of the 
benefits of this breakfast is it is the only time during the week, 
except for our prayer breakfast on Wednesday, when we are not in team 
meetings, when there is not a group somewhere plotting what this side 
will do to that side or what that side will do to this side. It is 
amazing what sort of discussion we can have when we sit down around 
that sort of table. We have many of the same principles who have talked 
tonight on the Senate floor, people who have strongly held views and 
they are different views and they were stated clearly and explicitly 
and each of us respected those views. We heard them.

But at least as strong as the difference of opinion in that 
bipartisan breakfast--as it is each week when we talk--was the feeling 
that our main job was, as soon as we could, to come to some sort of 
consensus about where we go from here. Because the single most 
important thing we can do as a government, other than fund our troops, 
is to send them a clear signal that we agree on why we sent them there 
to fight and perhaps be wounded and perhaps to die and we failed in 
that responsibility. To compound it, we are in the midst of a political 
stunt which does not do anything to encourage us toward a consensus.

In my remarks tonight, rather than heap oil on the fire, what I would 
like to do is talk for a moment about how we could come to that 
consensus and about both Democrats and Republicans in this body who are 
working that way. Mrs. Feinstein, the Senator from California, 
mentioned a number of Senators who do that. My experience with Members 
of this body began when I came to work here for the first time 40 years 
ago this year as a very junior aide. I have only been a Member of the 
body for 4 years. My experience is that most of us prefer to conduct 
ourselves like grownups, to not engage in petty kindergarten games, to 
not have partisan efforts where we taunt one another and try to put one 
another at a disadvantage but actually recognize we are here to look at 
big, difficult issues and to see if we can come up with a solution for 
one.

If there is such an issue that demands such a solution, it is 
America's role in Iraq. How would the Senate--if I am right that most 
of us would like


to have that kind of result--how would we go about working toward 
consensus, when we obviously have strongly held different views? For 
example, Senator Levin and Senator Reed, two of the most senior Members 
of our body--one a distinguished graduate of West Point, one who has 
served as chairman or ranking member of the Armed Services Committee 
for a long time--they strongly believe, as the Senator from California 
believes, that unless the Congress imposes upon the President a fixed 
deadline for withdrawal, that we will not have any motion in that 
direction.


I respect that. I disagree with that. I believe that interferes with 
the constitutional prerogatives of the President. I do not believe it 
is practical in a time of war to say that a group of legislators, 100 
generals here in this body, can guess a year out, even if that is the 
direction we want to go, exactly how to do it and exactly when to do 
that. That is why we have a Commander in Chief.

The Founders didn't pick this particular President, but they picked a 
President, a Chief Executive, with that responsibility. I respect that. 
That is of a difference of opinion. So we have profound and real and 
honest differences of opinion and they are reflected all the way across 
our country.

I hear them in Tennessee. The Presiding Officer hears them in his 
State. We hear them everywhere, and we feel them especially strongly 
because so many of our men and women have been there. In my State, 
10,000 members of the National Guard and the Reserves have been to Iraq 
and Afghanistan; almost all of them more than once.

We think of General Petraeus as almost a hometown boy because he 
commanded the 101st Airborne Division. When he was there as its 
commander, he was accidentally shot through the heart in a training 
exercise. His life was saved, when he went to Vanderbilt Hospital, by 
none other than Bill Frist, our former majority leader, who was then a 
heart surgeon at Vanderbilt University. So we have unusual respect for 
General Petraeus.

We are the ''Volunteer State.'' We have sent more men and women to 
fight, we think, than almost any State, and we instinctively have great 
respect for the President of the United States.

That is where we start in our State. But, still, there are a great 
many Tennesseans who say to me it is time for a new strategy in Iraq. 
It is time for a change. We have helped depose Saddam Hussein. We have 
helped Iraq have an opportunity to have a democratic government. We 
have stayed a long time to help build their security. But now it is 
time for us to agree on a different strategy.

How would a country and how would a body such as the Senate go about 
that? One way to do it might be to pick 10 people from outside the 
Senate, 10 of the most distinguished Americans, and say to them: We are 
stuck here. We have a problem. The country has a problem. We need a 
shift of direction. We have a Senate that is divided, a President who 
is insisting on his constitutional prerogatives, and we have men and 
women fighting and dying in Iraq--what do we do? Ten Americans, let's 
pick five Democrats and five Republicans, to give it a little bit more 
prestige.

That happened last year. Frank Wolf, a Representative from Virginia; 
John Warner, Senator from this body, was a part of this as well--they 
created something called the Iraq Study Group. The Iraq Study Group was 
cochaired by Jim Baker, the former Secretary of State for President 
Bush, and by Lee Hamilton, the former Democratic chairman of the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee. There were 10 prestigious Americans who 
served on the Iraq Study Group--if all of us were to put in a hat the 
names of Americans who might be good members of such a commission to 
help us unravel this problem, the 10 who were picked would come out of 
that hat pretty fast, in pretty good order, with a lot of Members on 
both sides of the aisle suggesting them.


For example, Larry Eagleburger, the former Secretary of State for the 
first President Bush; Vernon Jordan, the former president of the 
National Urban League and a very close associate of former President 
Clinton; Ed Meese, President Reagan's Attorney General; Justice Sandra 
Day O'Connor, who was the first woman to be appointed to the United 
States Supreme Court by President Reagan; Leon Panetta, who was 
President Clinton's Chief of Staff and who now in California has his 
own institute, the Leon & Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy in 
Monterey, CA; Chuck Robb, our former colleague, married to Lynda Bird 
Johnson. We have been thinking about that family these past 2 weeks 
with Lady Bird's death; Chuck Robb, a former marine, former Senator, a 
member of that panel; Allen Simpson, who had the No. 2 position right 
over here, a whip in the Senate from Wyoming; and, at one point, Robert 
Gates, the current Secretary of Defense, was a member of this panel 
before he had to step aside when he went to the administration.

So those 10 people--five Democrats, five Republicans. It would be 
hard to improve on that.

Then, let's say you said to this group of 10: This is an especially 
difficult problem. The Senate is fractured, the President is insisting 
on his prerogative, and the country is divided and tired, and we need a 
solution. So what we need for you to do, commissioners, is not come 
back with a majority vote, not come back with a filibuster, not come 
back with an all-night political stunt, but come back with a unanimous 
set of recommendations of where we go from here in Iraq, you five 
Democrats, you five Republicans with years of experience.

That is precisely what they did in December of last year, after 9 or 
10 meetings all over America, and meetings in Iraq, with a 
distinguished staff that consisted of an honor roll list of generals 
and experts. They visited with former President Clinton, former Vice 
President Mondale, former Secretary of State Albright, former Secretary 
of State Henry Kissinger, Warren Christopher, they visited with Colin 
Powell and George Shultz, Tony Lake, General Scowcroft, to ask about 
everybody whose judgment one would hope they would ask, and they came 
up with 79 recommendations in December, and they released it to the 
public.

They unanimously agreed in 9 months about what to do in Iraq. They 
also did not pull any punches. They said in December, even though this 
was chaired by Jim Baker and Lee Hamilton, they said: The situation in 
Iraq is ''grave and deteriorating.'' They said there is no magic 
bullet. But they did unanimously agree, unlike the Levin-Reed 
amendment, that we did not need a fixed deadline. They unanimously 
agreed that troop deployments should be subject to conditions on the 
ground.

So what did they recommend? Well, in a few minutes I cannot summarize 
79 recommendations, but I can boil it down to three points. First, we 
should move our troops from a combat mission to a support, equipping, 
and training mission as soon as we honorably can. They said, as a goal, 
that should happen in about a year, which then would have been the 
first quarter of 2008. Now, some time has gone past since then. But 
they said in about a year. The practical effect of that would have been 
to remove about half our combat forces--to reduce the number of 
American forces in Iraq by about half.

And, rather than subject that goal of reducing troops to a fixed 
deadline, as the Levin-Reed amendment says, they said it should be 
subject to developments on the ground, which is practical in a time of 
war, and respects the Commander in Chief's constitutional prerogative.

They said, No. 2: We should have a long-term interest in Iraq. It 
should be a limited interest, but there should be sufficient troops to 
help make certain that in that new mission we deal with that interest. 
They listed some of the things the troops would be expected to do who 
stayed: guard the Embassy, search and rescue, intelligence, special 
forces to go after al-Qaida--the point being, even though our troops 
have a different mission, out of a combat role into a support, 
equipping, and training mission, there would be enough of them there to 
send a message to the Middle East and the rest of the world: Stay out 
of Iraq. Give Iraq a chance to succeed, while also protecting U.S. 
forces that remained there. That was the second point.

The third point was step up. Step up the political and diplomatic 
efforts in the region by a significant amount, including talking with 
everybody in the region, to try to bring a result in Iraq.



So those are the three points. One, move out of the combat mission to 
the support, equipping, and training mission over about a year, without 
a deadline; two, a long-term but limited interest in Iraq, with some 
specifics; and, three, step up political and diplomatic efforts. Plus, 
the Iraq Study Group emphasized that we would still have a considerable 
presence in the region in Qatar and Kuwait and in Bahrain. So that is 
what the Iraq Study Group said.

What happened with the Iraq Study Group report? Well, I was very 
disappointed by the reaction to the report, especially when I saw that 
the recommendations were unanimous. When I first saw who were the 
distinguished members of that panel, I was convinced that at the State 
of the Union Address, President Bush would seat them in the gallery, 
and at the appropriate time, as Presidents often do, he would say: 
There they are, from the Reagan administration, from the Clinton 
administration, from my father's administration, and they have 
unanimously agreed on where we go from here in Iraq. And it is not 
exactly my proposal, it is their proposal, but because it is important 
to our troops and to our country and to the world that we move forward 
in a unified way, I accept their recommendations. I will develop a plan 
based upon their report. I ask you and the Congress to accept it.


I think there is a good chance that the Congress would accept such a 
plan, and an important part of that reason is because even the 
President needed someone else to help him develop support for whatever 
proposal he came up with. So that would be the first thing I think we 
would do if we were trying to solve this problem: go ask 10 of the most 
distinguished Americans of both parties to tell us what to do in 
specific recommendations, and do it unanimously.

Now, what is the second thing we would do? Well, I think we would 
come to this body and say: Every time we turn around there is a 
political stunt going on. Someone has had an early morning meeting and 
decided we are going to do this to the Republicans, and then some 
Republicans get excited, and they have an early morning meeting and 
say: We are going to do this to the Democrats. And you do not have the 
kind of discussion that these 10 Americans had or the kind we have in 
our bipartisan breakfasts.

But the second thing that needs to be done to move us in a consensus 
on where we go from here in Iraq would be to find some Senator in this 
body who would say: We are going to accept this Iraq Study Group 
report, and we are going to ask that the President agree to it and 
develop a plan based upon it and report to us on it in 90 days.

That is precisely what Senator Salazar did with his legislation. 
After saying in January that I was disappointed the President did not 
adopt the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, I made a speech on 
the floor in March. I find that sometimes you have to say things more 
than once in order to have anybody pay attention.

I said: Why didn't the President, in March, take the Iraq Study Group 
down off the shelf and use it for something other than a book end? And 
then I made another speech to that effect, and Senator Pryor of 
Arkansas came by to see me and said: We need to do something about 
this. We need to find a way to work together rather than to continue to 
have Democratic and Republican votes on Iraq.

Then Senator Salazar called me and said: I have been working with 
Secretary Baker, and with Lee Hamilton and their staffs. I put together 
legislation that accurately reflects the recommendations of the Iraq 
Study Group. And it simply adopts those recommendations as our law. If 
the President agrees to it, he is asked to develop a comprehensive plan 
based on those recommendations.

Since that time, there are now 14 of us in the Senate on both sides 
of the aisle who are cosponsors of that idea. Senator Salazar is the 
leader. He has done a terrific job on that. He is a Democrat from 
Colorado. In addition to my cosponsorship, we have been joined by Mark 
Pryor, a Democrat from Arkansas; Bob Bennett, a Republican from Utah; 
Robert Casey, a Democrat from Pennsylvania; Judd Gregg, a Republican 
from New Hampshire; Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat from Arkansas; John 
Sununu, a Republican from New Hampshire; Susan Collins, a Republican 
from Maine; Pete Domenici, a Republican from New Mexico; Bill Nelson, a 
Democrat from Florida; Mary Landrieu, a Democrat from Louisiana; Claire 
McCaskill, a Democrat from Missouri; and Kent Conrad, a Democrat from 
North Dakota.

My guess is that if the Democratic Senate leadership would back off a 
little bit, if the President would be more flexible, there are probably 
60 votes coming from both sides of the aisle for the Baker-Hamilton 
report, and if that should be adopted by the Congress, we can move 
forward, which brings me to my final point.

What would be the third step in having a bipartisan consensus for our 
country that would say to our troops and the world: We agree on why you 
are there, and we support that mission? It would be for the President 
to embrace the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. The President 
of the United States does not want to do that. I respect that. He has 
an absolute constitutional right to say: Our Framers created the 
Executive, I am the Commander in Chief, we cannot have 100 generals, I 
will develop the plan, and I will command the troops. That is my job.

He is right about that, except he has another part to his job. George 
Reedy, who was the Press Secretary to former President Lyndon Johnson, 
wrote a book called, ''Twilight of the Presidency.'' In it he defined 
the President of the United States. He said, No. 1, his job is to see 
an urgent need; No. 2, to develop a strategy to meet the need; and No. 
3 is to persuade at least half of the people that he is right.

I do not believe that President Bush, even if he is right in 
September, is likely to be able to persuade enough people to support 
his strategy to be able to sustain the strategy. Let me say that again. 
Even if he is right in September, even if he takes many parts of the 
Baker-Hamilton group and announces it as his strategy, at this stage in 
our history, I do not believe he can persuade enough Americans to 
support his strategy to sustain the strategy.

I believe this strategy should be sustained. So how does he do that? 
The way he does that is to embrace those who wrote this and those who 
support this so that it is not just his strategy, so that it is our 
strategy, so that he can say to the troops in the Middle East, and to 
the rest of the Middle East, and to the world: The Congress and I have 
come together around a set of principles. I am developing a plan on 
those principles. And not everyone agrees, but a consensus of us agree, 
which is why I would say to the Democratic leader, with respect, I do 
not mind requiring 60 votes on the Iraq issues. We need a consensus. We 
do not want to have an Iraq policy that passes by 51 to 49. We need a 
consensus. I believe we can have it.

There are some who say adopting the Iraq Study Group principles, the 
Salazar-Alexander legislation, is toothless. I respectfully disagree. 
My grandfather was a railroad engineer, a Santa Fe railroad engineer. 
He lived in Newton, KS, and his job was to drive the big locomotives 
onto the roundtable it was called. And that was how you turned a 
locomotive around. A locomotive might be about as hard to turn around 
as a country in the middle of a war. But that is what my grandfather 
did. He turned that locomotive around. And it was turned around. They 
put it on a different track and off it went in a different direction.


If we and the President were to agree on the recommendations of the 
Iraq Study Group, it would be just like my grandfather putting that big 
locomotive on the roundtable in Newton, KS. It would be turned around 
and sent down a different track. And, for now, at least, those on the 
other side would pick another engineer. But the engineer cannot do much 
about that track once he is on it. It would be headed down the track, 
the world would know it, and in good faith we could work together.

When I was an impatient young man working in the White House 40 years 
ago, a wise man named Bruce Harlow said to me: Lamar, just remember 
that here--he meant the White House--just a little tilt makes big waves 
out there.

If this Congress and this President adopted together the Iraq Study 
Group recommendations this week, that


would make big waves out there, and that would be a new consensus for 
our country.

Some said: Well, the Iraq Study Group is a little stale. It is out of 
date. It was done in December.

Lee Hamilton, the Democratic cochairman said: No. He said: We said in 
December the situation was grave and deteriorating. It still is. We 
said in December we need to move from a combat mission to support, 
equipping, and training. We still do. This week he said: In addition, 
we need to have a long-term limited role in Iraq. And we still do. And 
finally he said: We need to step up our diplomatic and political 
efforts in Iraq, and we still do.

To the President, I would say with the greatest respect, because he 
is a member of my own party, and I have talked with him about this 
before, I would say: Mr. President, I do respect your prerogative. I 
know you can draw the plan up. I know you want to sit down first with 
General Petraeus, whom we all respect and whom I especially do, as a 
friend, because he spent so much time in Tennessee. But the Salazar-
Alexander legislation has no chance of taking effect until September. 
And all it asks you to do is to draw up a comprehensive plan based upon 
the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. The first person you sit 
down with can be General Petraeus.

And I would ask the President whether it be better for him to ignore 
the Iraq Study Group and come up with his own plan, or would it be 
better for him to come to the Congress and say: Congress, I will adopt 
these. Why don't you adopt these and let's send our troops a message 
that we are united in what they are fighting for?

So there are 14 of us, 8 Democrats, 6 Republicans at this point, who 
support and cosponsor the Iraq Study Group. But I believe there are 
many more of us who could be comfortable with it, who could vote for 
it, even if it is not our first choice.

So I regret this all-night political stunt, but I respect this body. 
I see it every week in those bipartisan breakfasts, talking like the 
people of this country wish we always would when confronted by a major 
issue. I salute Senators Salazar and Pryor and those on that side, and 
Senator Gregg, Senator Bennett, Senator Collins, and those on this side 
who are working together to fix that. I hope more of our colleagues 
will join us soon.

The President and the Congress could agree on the Baker-Hamilton 
recommendations, and we would say to our troops: We not only will fund 
you, but we can now also say to you and to the Middle East that we 
agree on your mission, on why you are fighting, and why you are being 
wounded, and why you are dying.

I yield the floor.