---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `98fcf4933a924b7f1b730efa796e181b`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 9 July 2009`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. I understand that it is quite easy in a time of fiscal 
belt tightening to offer an amendment to reduce funding for the 
international financial institutions, but I would encourage my 
colleagues to recognize that voting in favor of this amendment has 
serious consequences to U.S. interests.

It would cut funding for the Asian Development Fund which provides 
basic loans and grants to support health care, education, 
infrastructure and economic development resources for Afghanistan and 
Pakistan.

The World Bank, which provides debt relief to developing countries, 
is supporting an integrated agricultural initiative to address the 
global food crisis. The Global Environmental Facility and the 
International Fund for Agricultural Development provide loans and 
grants. This amendment would undermine the ability of the United States 
to meet its commitments to global debt relief efforts and to countries 
around the world that rely on our assistance.

Remember, this is in the interest of our national security. These 
institutions fund valuable initiatives that provide opportunities to 
millions of people.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this amendment.

I yield the balance of my time to my good friend, the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Frank), the Chair of the Financial Services 
Committee.