---
---

# None
## `98ffcf8f673a335caa75eb08511e3463`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 2 April 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President, I come to the floor this afternoon to 
talk about the housing market crisis. I am grateful for the bipartisan 
work of Majority Leader Reid, Republican Leader McConnell, and Senators 
Dodd and Shelby. I am hopeful that we can finally pass legislation that 
gives our neighborhoods and middle-class families solutions to address 
the subprime and foreclosure crisis that has already been affecting the 
economy not only in my State but across the country.

For the past year and a half, we have been hearing all about this 
subprime mortgage crisis. I think many people not facing foreclosure--
and that is most of us--have had this view: It doesn't affect me. I pay 
my mortgage. I don't have a subprime or adjustable rate mortgage, and I 
am dealing with a responsible mortgage lender.

The truth is that none of us can escape the impact any longer. The 
housing crisis is now affecting every homeowner in the country and 
every would-be homeowner. It is dragging down our entire overall 
economy. It is not just in the urban areas. In our State, the 
foreclosure rate has doubled in the rural areas and, in fact, the two 
counties with the highest foreclosure rates are suburban counties 
bordering a rural area.

I am a member of the Joint Economic Committee, and just this morning 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testified before our committee 
about the state of the economy, the state of housing, about our 
financial markets, and about what happened with Bear Stearns. He 
testified this morning that the housing market is at the root of our 
housing crisis, and until Congress addresses this crisis, our economy 
will not be on sure footing.

In January, with record speed, Congress enacted an immediate and 
temporary fiscal stimulus package. Americans will start getting their 
checks in just a few weeks. We have to have solutions in this country 
to our economic troubles that go far beyond the day that these rebate 
checks are sent. I believe we have to have a long-term energy plan, and 
we need to put into place a health care plan that makes health care 
more affordable and more fiscally responsible.

Since then, it has become very clear that this stimulus package will 
not be enough to address the deep-seated problems that have been 
developing over several years in our housing and financial markets.

Home ownership has always been considered a basic part of the 
American dream. But in the last few years, the ''dream'' has changed in 
ways that our parents would not even recognize.

A decade ago, just 5 percent of mortgage loan originations were 
subprime--meaning that they were made to borrowers who would not 
qualify for regular mortgages. By 2005, it was 20 percent of the 
mortgages that were subprime. This opened the dream of home ownership 
to millions of people but also greatly increased the risk to our 
system. In Minnesota, in 2000, there were 8,347 subprime mortgages 
issued. By 2005, it had increased more than fivefold to more than 
47,000 subprime mortgages.

In addition, adjustable rate mortgages now make up a much larger 
share of the market than they did 10 years ago. Many people took out 
these loans during a period of low interest rates. But when interest 
rates went up, their mortgage payments adjusted upward and they found 
they were unable to make their monthly payments. We met some of these 
people in Minnesota, people who had looked for a mortgage and, because 
home values were so high, got a subprime mortgage, understood that the 
rate would go up but were under the misimpression that, in fact, there 
was a cap or that it would go up a few hundred dollars, and they saw, 
in fact, in some cases a doubling of their mortgage payments. As a 
result, we have had a wave of home foreclosures that started in 2006 
and continues today. During 2007, nearly 1.3 million homes became 
subject to foreclosure--a huge increase from 2005.

What started as a foreclosure crisis is now having ripple effects--or 
more like a tsunami wave--across the entire economy. It is no longer 
just a foreclosure crisis. It is a housing market crisis, it is a 
credit crisis, and it is an economic crisis. It affects everyone who 
wants to borrow money, whether it is for a house, a car, a college 
education, or a small business. It affects you even if you make your 
mortgage payment on time every month and even if you have already paid 
off your mortgage.

The rise in delinquencies and foreclosures--coupled with the credit 
squeeze that has made it harder for many buyers to obtain a mortgage--
has resulted in an excess of houses on the market, and that has, in 
turn, depressed home prices. Just last week, a report showed that home 
prices in the Twin Cities of Minnesota have fallen by nearly 11 percent 
in the last year--one of the sharpest drops in the country.

Last fall, the Joint Economic Committee issued a report on the 
housing crisis and its impact on the broader economy. The findings are 
troubling. The report estimates that, by 2009, 2 million foreclosures 
will occur; $71 billion in housing wealth will be directly destroyed 
because a foreclosure reduces the value of the house and the value of 
the homes around it; another $32 billion in housing wealth for other 
homeowners will be destroyed because each foreclosure brings down the 
price of houses generally. The most poignant example of this would be a 
year or so ago in some of our urban neighborhoods where you started 
seeing foreclosures, and you would see a sign and people may not want 
to move into those neighborhoods. Now we are seeing it statewide, and 
we are seeing the effect it has on reducing home values in general. 
State and local governments will lose more than $917 billion


in property tax revenue because of lower home values.

By one estimate, 10 percent of all homeowners--or 8.8 million 
people--have a mortgage that is at least as much or more than their 
home is currently worth; that is, 10 percent of all homeowners have a 
mortgage that is worth at least as much or more than their home is 
currently worth. If home values were to fall 20 percent from their 
peak, even more--13.3 million--would be living in homes worth less than 
their mortgages. For the first time since the Federal Reserve started 
tracking the data in 1945, the amount of debt tied up in American homes 
now exceeds the equity that homeowners have built up--with home equity 
slipping below 48 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007.

But you don't have a read a congressional report or go to our hearing 
and sit through the testimony to see how this ripple effect is touching 
everyday consumers. Last Tuesday, the Conference Board, a business 
research group, reported that consumer confidence fell to the lowest 
level in 5 years--just before the Iraq invasion. In the past couple of 
weeks, many Minnesotans just got their annual county property tax 
statements, and they were shocked to see that even the county values 
their homes at thousands of dollars less than last year.


You might think all of this would be good for first-time home buyers, 
that they would be a beneficiary because the amount of money and the 
values are going down. But many of these first-time home buyers, who 
may not have much credit themselves or much money in the bank, find 
that just as some bargains are coming on the market, the banks are 
raising rates and tightening their lending standards, making it harder 
and harder for ordinary families to qualify for a loan.

We don't have to sit on the sidelines and watch as this housing 
crisis eats away at our finances and paralyzes our economy. We need to 
take steps to help homeowners and home buyers, and we can. I hope this 
is done on a bipartisan basis.

I had a reporter run after me, saying: Majority Leader Reid just said 
we are going to work together on this--Democrats and Republicans.

I said: It is true. We want to get it done.

He said: OK. Thank you.

I think people are surprised that when we have an enormous crisis 
like this, Congress must work together to get things done.

What do we need to do? First, we need to give first-time home buyers 
a fighting chance to get into the housing market--and create some 
demand.

I have cosponsored the First-Time Homebuyers' Tax Credit Act. Other 
cosponsors are Debbie Stabenow, Joe Lieberman, and Gordon Smith. I 
thank Senator Stabenow for her great leadership on this bill and this 
issue. In fact, before I was even in the Senate, I called her to get 
some good ideas for first-time home buyers because I was hearing all 
over our State that because of the value of homes, it was getting 
harder for first-time home buyers to get a tax credit.

We have a State fair, as the Presiding Officer has in Missouri, and 
our booth was a home. We designed it like a house and talked about how 
important it was for Senator Stabenow's idea--for a first-time home 
buyers' tax credit.

This bipartisan legislation would create a tax credit of $3,000 for 
individuals and $6,000 for married couples, if they have qualifying 
incomes, to help make a downpayment on a first house. We estimate that 
this credit would help more than 15 million people close the deal on 
their first home over the next 7 years.

Second, we need to expand financing opportunities for homeowners 
caught in the credit squeeze.

I am hoping the Senate is able to finally pass legislation that gives 
State and local housing finance agencies the ability to issue bonds to 
raise money to refinance subprime mortgages that are in trouble and to 
expand the ability of the Federal Housing Administration to help 
homeowners rework their mortgages--rework that many lenders are 
unwilling or unable to do because of the broader economic crisis.

Third, we need to make sure the foreclosure wave doesn't catch even 
more consumers who got into mortgages they didn't understand and should 
not have signed.

I was thinking today at our hearing, when Senator Kennedy was 
speaking, that we have seen broken Government across this economy 
because of, in fact, the decision by this administration and others not 
to watch what was going on, not to put the resources into things--
whether it is toxic toys or tainted dog food. Well, these faulty and 
false and fraudulent financial offerings are a piece of this as well. 
By really being off the job and not watching over things and not seeing 
this crisis, we got to the point where we are.

Now we know where we are. We know we have to work with the financial 
industry, but we also have to look, as we talked about today, at 
changes in our regulatory agencies for more oversight, particularly 
changes for these financial offerings. We need to provide the resources 
for preforeclosure counseling so that homeowners do not get into a 
financial crisis in the first place.

We need to improve and simplify disclosure in mortgage documents. 
Anyone who signs a mortgage remembers how thick they are. Luckily, when 
I signed my first mortgage at home before I got married--I still 
remember sitting at that table trying to figure it out--I went through 
a good mortgage loan person and someone I trusted, and I got a regular 
mortgage. So many people do not understand what they are signing. They 
know they have a teaser rate, but they think it will only go up a 
little. So why can we not have a 1- or 2-page summary that at least 
explains how high it can go, what the cap is, what they will be facing 
in their monthly payments if certain changes are made.

We also have to have some skin in the game for these lenders. They 
should be held to the same fiduciary duty as banks. The banks have long 
been advocating for this so we can make sure the homeowners are able to 
pay the mortgage, not just the first year but in the years down the 
road.

The truth is these lending documents have gotten so complicated with 
new gimmicks and provisions that no one can understand them and 
certainly not a young family just coming on the market.

We must work together if we are going to turn around the housing 
market and our economy. Together, we can bring some stability to our 
market. We can make the market work more effectively for homeowners and 
home buyers and put a more solid foundation under our shaky economy. 
This is going to take more than just looking at this housing crisis. It 
obviously is going to take more fiscal responsibility with Government, 
something I know the Presiding Officer has focused on very much, and I 
have. It is going to take talking about how we pay for things. It is 
going to take better regulation of these financial markets.

As Chairman Bernanke said today, in fact, this subprime crisis is at 
the root of the problem, and that is what we need to focus on this 
week. Home ownership is at the center of the American dream.

In the last couple of years, it has become a nightmare, or at least a 
troubled dream for way too many middle-class families. We cannot sit 
idly by or, worse, become paralyzed by the size of the problem. It is 
now time to act.

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.