---
---

# NATIONAL GUARD EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION ACT OF 2010
## `990d6dc1baf8ec8c13260a2c2b7ef962`
`Mr. FILNER — 22 March 2010`

---


Mr. FILNER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would like to thank Congressman Mike Coffman of Colorado who is 
here with us for introducing the National Guard Employment Protection 
Act of 2010. One of the protections provided by the Uniformed Services 
Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, or USERRA, is to require 
employers to support a servicemember's absence for up to 5 years if 
called to active military duty. At the time when USERRA was enacted 
into law back in 1994, Congress intended to minimize the disruption to 
the lives of servicemembers as well as to their employers and prohibit 
discrimination against persons because of their service in the 
military.

Unfortunately, current statute does not provide National Guard 
members who are ordered to full-time active duty with the same 
protections. This is especially disheartening at a time when our Guard 
is called up to active duty in support of missions to secure the 
homeland or provide relief abroad. And of course since 9/11, the Guard 
has been doing almost half of the fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Many of them are bumping against the 5-year USERRA protection for their 
civilian jobs, and H.R. 1879 seeks to address this inequity and extend 
reemployment rights for those ordered to full-time National Guard duty.

Congressman Harry Teague of New Mexico worked with Congressman 
Coffman to add a provision to allow the Secretary of Defense to 
designate which duties qualify. So I would like to thank the gentleman 
from Colorado and the gentleman from New Mexico for their bipartisan 
efforts on this important bill. It is time, Madam Speaker, that 
Congress ensures that members of the National Guard are afforded the 
employment protections they deserve. I urge all my colleagues to join 
me in support of this legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.