# None
## `991f60af5d0cc2a0d0f326ffe6f2a6c6`
`Mr. INHOFE — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Illinois for his 
cooperation. As I said, if we have any other Members of our side who 
wish to come down and talk about this, there was that length of time 
set aside. So I reserve that time for anybody else who wants to speak. 
If anybody is listening and they wish to use some of this 30 minutes, 
they are welcome to do it.

I returned 2 days ago from Iraq. It is my 18th trip in the area, in 
the theater. Sometimes it was Afghanistan and other areas, but it was 
in that zone there. I wished to take this opportunity to kind of show 
where we are today, how we got here, and where we are going to go. Some 
good things are happening over there. A lot of people don't believe it, 
and some people don't want to believe it.

The first thing I wish to do is try to give an indication as to where 
we started and how this whole thing started. We keep hearing quotes 
from people--and misquotes--such as General Cody. He is very certain 
the Army--even though it is stressed--the soldiers themselves are in a 
position to continue as they have been. But there is a problem. I think 
the world needs to know how we got into this problem in the first 
place.

It began in the 1990s during the Clinton administration. I have a 
chart. When I make this statement, people tend not to believe it is 
true. At that time, we downgraded the military, during those 8 years in 
the 1990s, by approximately $412 billion. If you look at


where we were during the beginning of the Clinton administration, that 
would be this black line on the chart. If you merely put into this 
chart the inflation rate and kept the funding of the military at a 
constant level, it would be this black line. However, the red line down 
here was the Clinton budget. The budget came in--if you added up all 8 
years--at $412 billion below what the static budget would have been 
with inflation added.

I say that, and it sounds a little bit like something people are 
hearing for the first time. Yet it should not be the first time. I know 
there wasn't one month that went by in the 1990s that I didn't come 
down to the Senate floor and say this euphoric attitude that the Cold 
War is over and we don't need a military anymore is something that is 
going to come back to haunt us. Well, it has come back to haunt us. 
This is the problem we have. It is very much like during the Carter 
administration in the 1970s, when President Ronald Reagan inherited a 
hollow force when he took office. It was.

When you are decreasing the funding of the military over 8 years, you 
are dropping behind in your modernization program, and it means your 
force strength will be dropped, and it was a downgrading of about 40 
percent.

One of the things that concerned me at that time was there is this 
feeling among the American people that we have the best of everything; 
that when our kids go into combat, they are armed and equipped with the 
very best equipment that is out there. Unfortunately, that is not true. 
It should be true. I think the American people would demand--if they 
knew we were having these problems--that we would give our kids the 
very best of everything.

I have always been very appreciative of GEN John Jumper, who, in 
1998, might been the Vice Chief of the Air Force. He stood up and said 
Russia was making a strike vehicle--he was referring to the SU-25 and 
SU-30 vehicles--and selling them all over the world to countries such 
as China, or potential adversaries, which are better than our best 
strike vehicles, the F-15 and the F-16. In some areas, they were 
better. He talked about the stealth capabilities of what the Russians 
were making as opposed to what we had. At that time, there was one sale 
of around 240 of these vehicles to the Chinese. So they had equipment 
that was better than ours.

Another example is the NLOS cannon. This is the best thing we have. 
The Paladin is World War II technology. With the Paladin, after every 
shot of this cannon, you have to swab the breach. You saw pictures of 
this in prior wars. But this isn't acceptable because there are five 
countries making a better one than we are making, including South 
Africa.

So what we have been attempting to do, after this period of time was 
over, was to start upgrading, modernizing, and increasing the force 
strength and capability of our American military. Nonetheless, it is 
very significant that people realize that when this administration took 
over, and 9/11 came about, this was the condition of our military. It 
should not have been that way. The terrorist movement was active 
through the 1990s and during the Clinton administration.

In February of 1993, there was a car bomb planted in the underground 
parking garage below the World Trade Center. We knew that, and that was 
prior to 9/11. In June of 1996, Khobar Towers, we remember, were bombed 
by Hezbollah, with intelligence pointing to support by al-Qaida. The 
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, in 1998, were blown up, and that was 
done by the terrorists. We all remember what happened in Yemen, when a 
small craft went into the USS Cole and killed a number of Americans. 
That was another terrorist attack.

So this terrorism was going on all during the time we were downsizing 
our military. The next thing we find out is we are in a position where 
we have a down-sized military, and 9/11 comes along and 3,000 Americans 
are killed by terrorists, and we found out other terrorist attacks were 
planned at that time. That is when this all started.

I have to say--because right now I am missing a hearing, which I will 
go to when my remarks are finished--in talking about this stressed 
situation of our Army, people need to understand how we got into this 
situation. After my 18th trip over there, and every time in talking to 
the young people over there, yes, they are stressed and their families 
are stressed and, yes, they have had more deployments, and they should 
be 12 months instead of 15 months but they understand this has to be 
done. We cannot compromise our victory. So we went in after 9/11 for 
three reasons.

First, we went in to liberate Iraq from a tyrannical leader. I 
remember so well in 1991, after the first Iraq war, I had an occasion 
to be on the first freedom flight. It was 1991. There were nine of us, 
Democrats and Republicans. We were the first ones, in fact, to go to 
Kuwait City, but the Iraqis did not even know at that time the war was 
over. They were burning oilfields. The day would turn into night 
because of the smoke. That was the environment we were in at that time.

We had a person of nobility in Kuwait who had a palace by the Persian 
Gulf who was with us. He had a 7-year-old daughter. They went with us. 
Alexander Haig, Tony Cuello was one of the party who went over. At that 
time, he was, I believe, the Democratic whip of the House of 
Representatives. So it was a mixture of people. This man of nobility 
and his daughter wanted to see what their house looked like, if it was 
torn up during the first gulf war. When we got there, we found out that 
Saddam Hussein had used it for a headquarters. I took the little girl 
up to her bedroom--she wanted to see her little animals--only to find 
they had used her bedroom for a torture chamber, and there were body 
parts just scattered around in different areas. When we saw this, we 
realized what an animal this man we were dealing with was.

After 1991, we went back several different times, only to find that 
Saddam Hussein went after everybody who he suspected had been opposed 
to him during that first war, and he took care of them in different 
ways. He tortured thousands of people to death. You have to have gone 
over there, as I did, and looked into the graves and seen people who 
had been buried alive. His sons would raid weddings that were taking 
place. They would rape the bride, and then they would bury her alive. 
People who were going to be tortured to death by Saddam Hussein were 
begging to be dropped into the vats of acid head first so they would 
die quicker, or into the grinders, or the limbs that were cut off.

We really cannot draw a distinction between al-Qaida and Saddam 
Hussein in terms of the fact they are terrorists and they have no 
regard for human life. We just recently found an al-Qaida torture 
manual. The very things Saddam Hussein was doing in torturing people, 
they are doing now. Take a look at this chart. They are using flames on 
the throat; cutting the feet open so if they live, they will never be 
able to walk again; hanging by the arms while they had electrodes going 
in; drills used on their hands; and, of course, chopping off their 
limbs. This is a manual teaching them how to do it. We watched this and 
saw this was happening. I would think any reasonable person would say 
that alone would have been enough to go in to stop that reign of 
tyranny that was taking place at that time. But there are other reasons 
too.

The second reason is there were training camps located in Iraq in 
places such as Sargot, Ramadi, Samarra, and one of them was in Salmon 
Pac. Salmon Pac is a community in Iraq where they have a fuselage of a 
707 on the ground, and they were teaching people how to hijack 
airplanes. We will never know whether the perpetrators of 9/11 were 
trained in Salmon Pac. We don't know that. We never will know. 
Nonetheless, those are four training camps in Iraq. They are all closed 
now. They are not training anymore. That alone is certainly itself 
enough reason to have gone in there.

The third reason is to help the Iraqi people create a free and 
democratic country. People say: Why do we care about the Iraqis? We 
have problems at home. Why are we spending all this money? Why do we 
care about what kind of democracy they have? And they thought it was 
impossible to start one, anyway. One reason is, if they do not do it, 
it is going to be a problem area for terrorists in the Middle East 
until they are fighting on our soil. The troops who are over there know 
this.



I just got back. I talked with many troops. In fact, now we have the 
Oklahoma 45th over there, and we visited with most of them. They 
understand why they are there.

What would happen? There were a lot of surrender resolutions, a lot 
of cut-and-run resolutions that got a lot of attention in this body. I 
can remember when moveon.org had the big ad campaign portraying David 
Petraeus, one of our great American heroes, as ''General Betray Us.'' 
It was unconscionable. There were resolutions to disavow what he said. 
There were 25 Members of this Senate body who opposed those 
resolutions.

When the terrorists see this, they are hoping and praying that we, 
the Americans, are going to leave Iraq. On August 28, 2007, Ahmadinejad 
made a statement. He was referring to these resolutions that are going 
to draw our people out of Iraq. He said:




 Soon we will see a huge power vacuum in the region. Of 


 course, we are prepared to fill that gap. . . .


We are talking about Ahmadinejad. That is why the Iraqis are getting 
so cooperative with us. They don't want that vacuum filled.

I was talking the other day with BG Jimmy Cash. He is retired. He is 
the former command director inside the Cheyenne Mountain complex in the 
late 1980s. He said: I watched Iran and Iraq shoot missiles every day, 
all day long for months. They killed hundreds of thousands of their own 
people. They were fighting for control of the Middle East.

Which reminds me, when all these people are talking about weapons of 
mass destruction, we knew they had weapons of mass destruction then. We 
knew they were killing hundreds of thousands of their own people in the 
north, the Kurds, and they were using weapons of mass destruction to 
send chemical warheads up there that have the effect of burning people 
to death from the inside out, the most painful thing--women, babies, 
everybody, thousands and thousands of them.

Anyway, if he were to fill that vacuum, we do not know how long it 
will take for America to be a target on our soil.

If we look at what is working, one of the things I noticed on the 
many trips I have taken over there--about a year ago, a little more 
than 13 months ago, the surge began. That was General Petraeus. What 
did he say? GEN David Petraeus said we have to go in there with a surge 
capability in certain areas. He was concerned about some of the areas 
around the triangle. As we went in there and positioned ourselves, we 
found that he was right in his analysis as to where we needed to have 
more troops stationed--in Fallujah and Ramadi. Remember, just about 2 
years ago, they declared that Ramadi would become the terrorist capital 
of the world. Now Ramadi is under total security, not by the United 
States but by the Iraqi security forces. So we have watched what has 
happened since that time.

One of the reasons the surge has worked so successfully is that we 
have had the religious leaders realizing that if we leave, Iran will 
come in and fill the vacuum, and they cannot have that happen. So the 
religious leaders, the imams, the clerics started giving positive 
messages about the United States of America.

A year ago, we had our defense intelligence attending the weekly 
meetings of the mosques. I think they meet every Friday. At that time, 
85 percent of the messages that were given in the mosques by the 
clerics and the imams were anti-American messages. As of April of last 
year, almost a year ago, there had been virtually none. They are all 
now positive messages. What does that mean? It means that the Iraqi 
citizens have now--just like, Mr. President, anyplace in your State of 
Arkansas or elsewhere in our communities, we have Neighborhood Watch 
programs. Now they have them. They have their own citizens going in 
with bait cans, drawing circles around the undetonated IEDs so our 
troops will not be killed. We watched in Anbar all the incidents. They 
have been down from 40 a day to 10 a day. We have seen economic growth, 
the markets open and crowded. The large project in the Sunni Triangle 
is now back on track. They are going to have the capability to help 
their people now.

The Iraqi Army is starting to perform really well. This surprises a 
lot of people because they don't think the Iraqi security forces have 
the capability of being the type of soldiers they are today. We saw 
this the other day. In fact, I was over there the other day in Bucca in 
Basra when they went in and took care of the problems so we didn't have 
to do it. This is what we are seeing.

If you have any question that it is true, all you have to do is look 
at some of the people who never really wanted to be friends of the Bush 
administration who were opposed to the liberation of Iraq. One such 
person was Katie Couric. This shocked everybody when she was 
interviewed. That was in September 2007 by Bob Schieffer. This was live 
on TV. She had made a trip, after she had been criticizing the war, 
criticizing the Bush administration, criticizing the whole liberation 
effort. She went over and came back and said:




 Well, I was surprised, you know, after I went to Eastern 


 Baghdad. I was taken to the Allawi market--


I have been there also--



 which was near Haifa Street which was the scene of that very 


 bloody gun battle back in January, and you know this market 


 seemed to be thriving and there were a lot of people out and 


 about. A lot of family-owned businesses and vegetables stalls 


 and so you do see signs of life that seem to be normal . . . 


 the situation is improving.


That is not me talking, that is Katie Couric, whom we least expected 
that from.

We see these things happening. I always make a point when I visit 
with people in the markets, if I see someone carrying a little baby, I 
will go in there intentionally without any kind of armament, with an 
interpreter. The interpreter will tell us just what they are saying. 
And people with young kids love the Americans.

I have to say this too. We are going to see, and have seen already, a 
lot of accusations that we in the United States, in our Department of 
Defense, CIA, and the rest of agencies, are guilty of all kinds of 
torture. It is true that back in Abu Ghraib, when it first happened, 
there were some people there who did the wrong thing. I think there 
were 11 of them altogether. They were doing some things that were 
perhaps not the kinds of things we would endorse. That was taken care 
of by the U.S. Army. They took care of it. But that came out, and 
people started talking about what the Americans were doing. Yet look 
what is in their manual, the types of inhumane torture.

I went to Bucca. Bucca is where we have the most detainees in Iraq. I 
was wanting to find out for sure by going around and interviewing 
detainees. I interviewed, I would say, about 40 or 50 of them. I picked 
them out myself. I took an interpreter. Each one said: We never were 
tortured when we were captured. We have been detained. We will be going 
back to where we came from. They have become real supporters of the 
United States. They were treated right. They were treated humanely. 
They are teaching them to read. They are teaching them to study their 
Koran. They are teaching them carpentry and other trades because one of 
the biggest problems they have--it is easy to recruit people when there 
is total unemployment. The unemployment rate is so high. They have to 
feed their families some way. Now we have trained them, and they are 
able to go back and get jobs and take care of their families without 
having to do it through the military.

I just say to you, Mr. President, since this whole situation began--
and I happened to be in Fallujah during each of the two elections that 
took place, and I watched the Iraqi security forces go down to vote 
when they knew they were risking their lives. They voted the day before 
so they could offer security. I watched those people risking their 
lives--remember the purple finger--knowing their lives were at risk 
when they voted. This is the democracy they have been looking for. 
Democracy has been working. I came back this last time thinking the 
surge has been progressing so well; if we just keep it up, really good 
things are happening over there.

Considering we started with a downgrading of some $412 million in our 
military, then 9/11 came and we were forced into a war as a result of 
that, we have done so well.

Mr. President, I was a part of the draft many years ago, and I was a 
believer for quite a number of years,


until the first gulf war, that we should have mandatory service because 
I know what a great thing it did for my life. But when you go over 
today and you see an all-volunteer force and see what they are capable 
of doing and what they have done, you come back so proud that they 
started out down here with very little to work with, and they have been 
able to sustain it.

Are they overworked right now? Are they deployed too often and too 
long--15 months? Yes, they are. It looks as though we are going to be 
able to drop that down to 12 months. But the troops themselves say: 
Whatever it takes, we are going to do this. They know the alternative. 
The alternative is the war will be waged on American soil. We don't 
want that to happen.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.