---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `99278b5735cd1eab5619a32a35eaefbd`
`Mr. LAMBORN — 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Chairman, this would reduce by $300,000 the money 
appropriated by the Office of Secretary and Executive Management.

Instead of $6.3 million, it would be $6 million, and this would be in 
accordance with last year's spending. This appropriations bill in its 
entirety would increase spending for homeland security by more than $2 
billion; that's more than what the President requested, and it will 
increase spending by more than $4.2 billion over the fiscal year 2007 
Homeland Security appropriations bill.

We should show restraint by reducing the amount that the Federal 
Government spends, rather than increasing the amount. It is simply not 
prudent.

We are at a time when the Federal Government faces an $8.8 trillion 
national debt. It's important, and this is a step in the right 
direction. Just as the last amendment saved us some hard-earned 
taxpayer dollars, this would save hard-earned taxpayer dollars as well.

So we can be fiscally disciplined and reduce the deficit if this 
money is not spent elsewhere. Increasing the size of government or the 
amount of bureaucracy, as this bill would otherwise do, is not going to 
help in this reduction effort.

I look forward to the debate on this amendment. I hope it's as 
productive and successful as the debate on the last amendment.

Now, by reducing the Office of Public Affairs in the Office of the 
Secretary and Executive Management account to the fiscal year 2007 
level, that is a $300,000 increase, or a 5 percent increase over the 
amount of last year's budget.



That's more than the rate of inflation. So this amendment would be 
the first step of many necessary steps in forcing fiscal discipline and 
sanity upon the Federal Government.

Now, this is part and parcel of a larger issue, Mr. Chairman, that's 
very concerning to many of us on this side of the aisle. We have an 
earmark process that is not subject to sunshine, not subject to 
sunlight. It is said that sunlight is the best disinfectant. And I'm 
disturbed.

You know, I'm a freshman coming in here, Mr. Chairman, and I expected 
the better of Congress. I thought that we would have the opportunity to 
debate earmarks, and I'm very, I'm deeply disturbed about that because 
apparently we're starting down a road of appropriations bills where the 
earmarks are going to be saved for the conference committee.

By the way, that'll be in August when we're going to be in recess. 
We're not even going to be here. And apparently there's going to be a 
list printed, and you get the bill out of conference committee, and 
you're just going to have to take it or leave it. That's not what I 
expected when I came here to Congress, Mr. Chairman. I expected better 
than that. And I'm sorry that we're going down this road. I hope that 
it can be changed at the last minute, and course can be reversed.

The bills that are just scheduled this week would increase spending 
by $20 billion over last year. Twenty billion dollars is significant, 
Mr. Chairman, and this is one of the four bills that would contribute 
to that $20 billion increase.

I'm also disturbed, Mr. Chairman, I've heard some reasons thrown 
around why this might be happening. I can only speculate, but what I've 
heard is that, for one thing, the Appropriations Committee was just too 
busy to look at the many, many, many earmarks that were requested of 
it. However, that reason doesn't really hold water, I don't think, 
because we just frittered away 3 months going through the Iraq war 
supplemental process, and ended up where many of us said it should have 
started out in the first place, and would have ended up and started out 
that way if we had just applied a little common sense at the beginning, 
and we would have saved those 3 months, and maybe we would have had 
time for the Appropriations Committee to look at some of these 
earmarks.

I've also heard it said, Mr. Chairman, that for those Members who 
vote against this bill, you know, they can pretty much write off any 
chance of getting an earmark. And I'm not planning on offering any 
myself. That's probably good. And I'm planning on voting against this 
bill from everything I know about it so far. But I just think that that 
kind of retaliation is beneath the dignity of the People's Body, and I 
think that, once again, that's something I as a freshman am coming in 
and seeing for the first time, and I'm deeply disappointed by it.