# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `993484a3053e982df0d54b23f35cb473`
`Mr. CASEY â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the war in 
Iraq, and in particular to speak about an amendment that we will be 
voting on tomorrow, the Reed-Levin amendment.

I want to note, first of all, that this amendment has been offered 
before. We voted on similar amendments over the course of this year, 
and I am glad we are voting on it again because I think the American 
people, time and again, have told us it is time, at long last, to 
change the course in Iraq and to focus on a new policy.

Sometimes we talk about this amendment and we fail to mention 
something about the sponsors of this amendment. We are talking about 
two Members of the Senate with broad experience in this body, 
tremendous years of public service, but also a lot of years on the 
Armed Services Committee and other committees that have informed their 
judgment. The two Members of the Senate, Jack Reed and Carl Levin, I am 
speaking about, have both been to Iraq innumerable times, learning 
about what is happening there and focused in a real way on helping us 
get this policy right.

Our troops have done everything we asked of them, time and again. 
Every mission, every battle, they have done their job. It is about time 
the Congress of the United States and the President of the United 
States do our job to change the course in Iraq and to focus on a new 
policy.

Fortunately, this amendment, I think, has tremendous support in the 
Senate. We have already seen this before. Much more than a majority of 
Senators will vote for this amendment. I hope we can get it to 60 votes 
at long last.

Let's talk about it for a moment. This is a very basic amendment, 
which fundamentally says we have to change the course in Iraq; we have 
to begin to redeploy our combat forces so the Iraqi forces can 
takeover, ultimately. But it also focuses in a real way on 
transitioning this mission. Our mission should be about a couple of 
things our soldiers have already proven time and again that they do 
very well. The mission should be transitioned to a much more focused 
mission: First of all, to hunt down and kill terrorists in Iraq. That 
is fundamental to our mission. Our mission has to include training of 
the Iraqi security forces. We see in report after report, especially at 
the level 1 of readiness, the ability for the Iraqi forces to 
independently, without help from American forces, take over the fight 
against the enemy. We have to make sure that training moves forward 
much more aggressively and in a much more focused way than we have seen 
already. But that is not happening. So we need to train the Iraqi 
security forces.

Finally, we have to make sure we protect our troops and their 
infrastructure and also the civilian personnel we have in Iraq. We have 
seen all those personnel doing a great job as well--from the State 
Department and other parts of our Government. But if we can focus, as 
we should, on a redeployment of our combat forces and focus on the 
terrorists, focus on training, and focus on diplomacy--which I will 
talk about at length a few minutes later--that has to be the mission we 
should focus on in Iraq.

That is what Reed-Levin does, among other things. It focuses at long 
last on a mission that we know our troops can continue to achieve. But 
also it focuses in a real way on transitioning this mission and 
focusing on a redeployment of our forces, our combat forces.

I think some of what has formed the way I vote and the way lot of us 
vote is our time in Iraq. I spent a day and a half in Iraq. Some people 
can say: What can you learn in a day and a half? You can learn a lot 
about Iraq in that short amount of time. I learned, not just in the 
meetings we had but a good part of our time in Iraq--Senator Durbin and 
I were there in the early part of August--a good part of our time was 
outside the Green Zone. You get a sense, a fleeting sense, a glimpse, 
but you get a sense of the insecurity of Baghdad when you are outside 
of that Green Zone.

I have heard a lot of discussion about things that have been 
happening in Anbar. Frankly, our marines have done a great job there 
and our troops have done a great job in Baghdad. But Baghdad is a lot 
more complicated than Anbar, and we should recognize that. It is a lot 
more difficult assignment going forward.

What do we see in Baghdad? Every time you go outside the Green Zone 
you travel in a convoy. We were given great protection, not only by 
those who were traveling with us but also by people from the State 
Department and others. We appreciated that. But you wear body armor 
wherever you go--inside the vehicle, outside the vehicle. You wear a 
combat helmet, a Kevlar helmet. You are surrounded by people with 
weapons to protect you. So you get a sense of the insecurity there.

Then, when we were traveling to the President's house our second day 
there, almost the entire trip to President Talabani's house where he 
resides was in a military convoy with helicopters flying overhead to 
protect us. When I got on a Blackhawk helicopter to go from an airport 
to a patrol base outside the city of Baghdad where our forces are doing 
a great job against al-Qaida, what do we have to do? We get into a 
Blackhawk helicopter and fly at a very high rate of speed over the 
rooftops to avoid being attacked. We saw in the last couple of weeks 
what happened to a C-130, with distinguished Members of the Senate, 
some of them here on the floor today, being fired upon by the enemy.

You see the insecurity all around you. You see the insecurity when we 
were meeting at the patrol base and a missile landed and we heard the 
explosion 400 yards from us.

What I am trying to convey is the sense we had of the insecurity of 
Baghdad. It is a real presence there, that feeling of insecurity. It is 
a fact. We should recognize this mission is very


difficult for our troops. They have met every assignment.

What we have to do is give our troops a policy and a strategy which 
matches their valor. We don't have that right now. The President should 
start acting more like a Commander in Chief instead of someone who is 
reading talking points for his side of the argument. When I was 
listening to the President the other night, unfortunately, what he 
conveyed to me was a sense that he was selling a message instead of 
leading. I don't think he has led in a way that has brought this 
Congress together, frankly. It is about time we had a mission and a 
strategy that matched the brilliance and the valor of our troops.

When I was in Iraq, we would hear these phrases from the Iraqi 
leaders: We need more time. You need to be patient in America. I heard 
this phrase I have never heard before, we need ''strategic patience.'' 
I still don't know what that means, but the Iraqi political leaders 
were telling us that over and over again. I have to say, on behalf of 
the people of Pennsylvania and on behalf of the 175 families who lost 
someone in Iraq already, I have to say to these Iraqi leaders: We have 
shown strategic patience, whatever that means. We have shown patience 
and forbearance and our troops and their families have sacrificed over 
and over again. It is about time for you, Mr. or Mrs. Iraqi Leader, to 
get your act together and take overt responsibility of taking on this 
enemy for the next generation, taking the corruption out of your police 
force, and governing your country so you can have a government of 
national unity.


But all they ask for is patience. Whenever the Iraqi political 
leaders ask for patience, the one who pays most of the price is not 
anybody in Congress. It isn't anybody in the White House. The people 
who pay the price are the troops and their families--over and over 
again. We are reaching the end of our patience, I think I would say and 
have said to those Iraqi leaders.

Finally--I don't wish to spend too much time on our trip--one of the 
most poignant parts of our trip, and it has connection and relevance to 
what we voted on today and yesterday and will tomorrow, is the sense 
you get from our troops. You know the bravery of those troops--troops 
from Pennsylvania, from small towns in Bradford County, way up in 
northeastern Pennsylvania, troops from the inner city of Philadelphia, 
who were in the same mission, sitting at the same table to have what 
goes for lunch over there--very simple food that they have to eat every 
day. But what I got from our troops was a real sense of commitment, a 
real sense of focus on their mission. We have to do everything we can 
to make sure they have the resources they need.

But a lot of our troops are being asked to referee a civil war. No 
American fighting men or woman has ever been asked to referee someone 
else's civil war. We have asked them to do that. I heard language in 
this Chamber, and we heard it from the President--he talks about 
victory, victory, victory. He uses phrases such as that and some people 
here have used those phrases.

Do you know what. I think the more accurate phrase and the more 
descriptive, to describe what is happening there, is what Ambassador 
Crocker said to me in Baghdad. I challenged him and General Petraeus, 
and they both said: No, that is not the right language. What the 
mission has to be is to stabilize that Government, not to have some 
Hollywood victory that sets our troops up for something not achievable. 
Our troops have done their job. It is about time we have the right 
policy and the right language that matches the valor of our troops.

We see what these troops and their families have sacrificed, and we 
see some of the horror of battle. We went into the combat support 
hospital, right in the middle of Baghdad. You see in that hospital 
doctors and nurses, enlisted men and women who are doing that job 24 
hours a day under the most difficult circumstances. In one case, taking 
care of a little child, a girl who had been left in the streets of 
Baghdad when her parents were killed. These doctors and nurses were 
ministering to her, just like they minister to the troops who come in 
from the battlefield.

We think of a lot of lessons from history. We remember what Abraham 
Lincoln said when he was talking about the Civil War. He talked about 
what happens to those who die or are wounded in battle--especially 
those who die. He talked, at the time, about making sure we are doing 
everything possible to remember and to help the families of those who 
perished. As Abraham Lincoln said: '' . . . to help him who has borne 
the battle, and his widow and his orphan.''

When we debate on this floor about this policy, debate about veterans 
health care, we are trying to do our best to enact policy that is 
supportive of those troops who have perished in battle and those 
families.

We have to make sure we do everything possible to get this policy 
right. I believe a giant step forward to doing that would be to support 
the Reed-Levin amendment and to support other measures that help us 
change our course. We lost an opportunity yesterday when we didn't get 
to 60 votes on the Webb amendment. That was a bad day in the Senate. 
But we have to keep trying, and we will try again tomorrow on this 
vote.

I wish to conclude with some remarks about an amendment I have 
offered along with Senator Murkowski, an amendment which focuses on 
something we all talk about a lot but, frankly, the administration has 
not done nearly enough about, and that is diplomacy. This amendment is 
a sense-of-the-Senate amendment expressing a very simple notion that it 
is time we implement a diplomatic surge that matches any military 
surge. It sends a crystal-clear message to the White House: The time 
for sustained regional diplomacy is now, and it deserves the highest 
priority of the President, President Bush, and the Secretary of State, 
Secretary Rice.

We all recognize in hindsight how diplomacy was critically missing 
from the strategic planning of the United States in the runup to this 
war. We all know that now. That is almost not even debated anymore. Yet 
we have paid little heed to diplomacy in the frustrating years since 
our initial invasion. The United States continues to treat Iraq as some 
kind of isolated box, failing to recognize the complex linkages between 
the various sectarian groups inside Iraq and their patrons and 
supporters in the broader Middle East region. It is time we made Iraq 
less America's problem and more a responsibility for its regional 
neighbors and the international community.

Let me highlight quickly the elements of this amendment, very 
specific steps. First of all, the United States should implement a 
comprehensive diplomatic offensive. It has not been done yet. No. 2, 
the United States should bring together Iraq's neighbors through a 
regional conference or other mechanism. That has not been done yet--
part of it has, but it has not been done as it should. No. 3 definitely 
has not been done, especially when it pertains to the President: The 
President and the Secretary of State should invest their personal time 
and energy in these diplomatic efforts. This cannot be done by proxy or 
surrogate. They have to be engaged fully. In addition to that, the 
President, I believe, and Senator Murkowski believes, should appoint a 
high-level Presidential envoy to the region. The U.S. Ambassador to the 
United Nations should seek the appointment of an international mediator 
in Iraq to engage the political, religious, ethnic, and tribal leaders 
in Iraq.

Finally, the United States should more directly press Iraq's 
neighbors to open fully operating embassies in Baghdad.

I will conclude with that. There is so much that has to be done on 
diplomacy and there is so much more we have to do. We have to keep 
debating this issue, keep pushing forward to achieve a better policy.

I believe two parts of that are the enactment of the Reed-Levin 
amendment, first of all, and in addition to that the amendment that I 
and Senator Murkowski have worked together on, to have a real 
diplomatic surge in Iraq.

I yield the floor.