---
---

# REMEMBERING SENATOR ROBERT C. BYRD
## `993d28a818428a4a7bc8ca8e1999f60f`
`Mrs. BOXER — 28 June 2010`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I know several colleagues have come to the 
floor today to note the passing of a giant among us, Robert Byrd. I 
want to take a moment here to speak straight from the heart about 
Robert Byrd and my experience working with him. As we look at his desk 
with the flowers there, we of course think back to not too long ago 
when we lost another giant, Ted Kennedy. I think what distinguishes 
these two from others is their unbelievable, undying commitment to the 
people they represented and to this country.

I think, when all is said and done, that is what it is about. It is 
not about how long you serve. Of course, in the case of both Senator 
Kennedy and Senator Byrd, it was so long. Senator Byrd made history as 
the longest serving Senator, and that should be duly noted. But it is 
well beyond that. It is about this fierce sense of ''fight for your 
people'' that they both had.

When I came to the Senate, of course Robert C. Byrd was a legend for 
sure. He always met with the incoming Senators, to give them the rules 
of the road about procedure, about how to conduct yourself when you 
were in the chair, about the dignity of the Senate, and most of all 
about reverence for the Constitution. As many know and many saw, the 
image I will always have of Robert C. Byrd is of him reaching inside 
his suit pocket and bringing out the Constitution--which, along with 
the Bible, was what he cherished most. He taught us that everything we 
do here comes from the Founders, and he taught us to love and respect 
the Constitution and he did it in a way that was truly inspiring.

I can tell you, coming from the largest State in the Union, we have 
our share of problems. We have floods and fires and droughts, we have 
pests in our agricultural industry, we have problem after problem--
earthquakes, need I say that? Every single time we had one of these 
disasters, Senator Feinstein and I knew we had to go to our colleagues 
and say: Please understand, California needs the help of the U.S. 
Government because the damage is so massive. Of course, we all do that 
whenever our State has a problem, because we are the United States of 
America.

However, there are times when you do not have an ear that is 
listening. Senator Byrd, as the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee, opened his doors to us, opened his heart to us, opened his 
experience to us, and was always there for us. I so remember that, time 
after time.

I went to see him about our water problems. We have lots of water 
problems. We have cities and suburbs that need the water. We have 
fishermen who need the water. We have agriculture that needs the water. 
All the stakeholders have very difficult debates over water. Senator 
Feinstein and I again have teamed up on this and we have always had a 
willing listener in Robert C. Byrd, who understood and helped us get 
the stakeholders to the table to find ways to preserve, to conserve, 
and increase the supply in a smart way for all those stakeholders.

These things are very big to the people of California, who probably 
have not connected Robert Byrd to California. But in all of these cases 
where we were so in need, he was there for us.

I remember so well his leadership in trying to bring the troops home 
from Iraq. Twenty-three of us stood up and said no to that war because 
we thought it meant taking our eye off Osama bin Laden and what was 
happening in Afghanistan and turning around and going into Iraq. We 
worried very much


about what would happen with our troops and that it would be a very 
long war and there was no exit strategy.

Senator Byrd organized us and he opened his office here in the 
Capitol and said we need to talk about ways that we can bring this war 
to the end. We need to organize and we need to talk about what is 
happening to our troops. He cared so much. For me, to have been in his 
presence and to watch him work has been an amazing experience. So I 
rise to pay tribute to him.

He has so many wonderful family members who care so much about him. 
When he lost his wife, it took a huge toll on Robert Byrd, and you saw 
it in his face. A light went out inside. His grandchildren and children 
stepped up, but that hole in his heart was there. It was evident to all 
of us. He stayed here through thick and thin, came in--wheeled in, in a 
wheelchair, fading, suffering, to be in this place that he loved so 
much, so much; that he respected so much.

I say, and I know, there is not a Member on either side of the aisle 
who did not respect Robert C. Byrd for his brilliance, for his 
strength, for his fierce representation of his State and, by the way, 
for his extraordinary biography, coming up the way he did. Talk about 
the American dream--a child of dire poverty, close to the mines. He 
always fought for those miners. What a legacy he leaves.

I don't have any notes in front of me. I am speaking from the heart 
today. I will have a more complete statement, but I did want to make my 
views known today and send my condolences to the family. It is a great 
loss for everyone.