# None
## `99413f096ecfd819605ee2ffa9556699`
`Mr. RUSH — 15 December 2010`

---


Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2965, the 
Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010. This language, Mr. Speaker, 
is identical to the language that this body passed in May as an 
amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act.

Since that time, a legislative repeal of this law has become both 
more necessary and more proper.

More necessary, Mr. Speaker, because the courts have made it clear 
that they will not stand idly by while the United States continues to 
discriminate against its servicemembers.

As Secretary Gates explained recently, a legislative repeal is the 
only way to right this wrong as it allows the new policy to properly be 
implemented ''in a thoughtful and careful way'' versus the immediacy of 
a legislative mandate as was seen earlier this year.

Mr. Speaker, it is now, more than ever, important to remember that 
now is always the right time to do what is right. As illustrated by the 
Pentagon's own Working Group report, 70 percent of our military 
personnel also recognize that repealing Don't Ask Don't Tell is the 
right thing to do.

Additionally, Mr. Speaker, an ABC News/Washington Post poll released, 
today, demonstrates that 77 percent of Americans support allowing open 
service in the U.S. military. Support for repeal is both broad and 
inclusive. These figures further show that now is the right time to 
correct this injustice.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to remind my colleagues who question the 
impact of open service that our servicemembers have always lived and 
served dutifully in an environment of open service. Whether in 
Afghanistan, working alongside our allies--87 percent of which, experts 
say, come from nations allowing open service--and contractors who also 
allow open service and often work in the same environment and share the 
same facilities as our servicemembers. Or, during the Gulf War, when 
the U.S. suspended enforcement; yet no one questioned our successes or 
results in our mission there. These instances, among others, not only 
demonstrate the professionalism and adaptability of our fighting men 
and women but they also dispel the misconceptions about openly 
homosexual soldiers.

Mr. Speaker, I close with a statement from President George H. W. 
Bush's Assistant Secretary of Defense, Lawrence Korb. In February of 
this year Mr. Korb was asked ''Should Gays Serve Openly In The 
Military?'' His reply, Mr. Speaker, was, ''Not only is it the right 
thing to do, it will actually increase our security in the long run.''

Mr. Speaker, there is agreement on both sides of the aisle and across 
the civilian and


military populations of our country that repealing Don't Ask Don't Tell 
is the right thing to do. I, once again, urge my colleagues to join me 
in supporting this bill.