# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `994be49ae425d2ac340e67002de4ed6d`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Madam Speaker, as chairman of the Armed Services 
Committee on Air and Land Forces, my overriding concern on every issue 
that comes before us is whether and how it supports our men and women 
in uniform.

Every decision about equipment, procurement, training, end strength 
or budget authorization must meet this test: Does it support our 
troops? The question before us today, increasing U.S. forces in Iraq by 
some 21,000 combat troops and somewhere between 3 and 28,000 support 
personnel fails this test in every respect.

Both the immediate and long-term effects of the war in Iraq on our 
Nation's military preparedness are evident and drastic. Extended 
deployments, premature redeployments, and sustained combat under 
unbelievably harsh conditions have taken a terrible toll on our forces 
and their equipment.

The results are an overstretched U.S. Army and Marine Corps with no 
fully mission-capable Reserve forces, and an urgent need for billions 
of dollars to repair or replace worn and damaged helicopters, tanks, 
other armored vehicles, including up-armored Humvees and other 
equipment.

I recently returned from an inspection of two of the Army's busiest 
repair depots in Corpus Christi, Texas, and Anniston, Alabama. What we 
saw there were skilled and dedicated employees working feverishly to 
make sure that our men and women in uniform, particularly those in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, have every piece of equipment they need to do their 
jobs and keep themselves safe from harm.

What we saw were the results of an administration's abject failure to 
mobilize this country's industrial base for this war of choice. Only 
now are we ramping up America's manufacturing capacity to fully support 
our troops at home and overseas.

Smugly self-righteous in its belief that U.S. troops would be 
targeted with nothing more lethal than rose petals, this administration 
has been complacent in leaving the burden of the war on the men and 
women of our Armed Forces, active, Reserve and National Guard. The 
impact of this attitude hit home for me in Corpus Christi when I read 
recently about the death in Iraq of a 48-year-old Army sergeant with 
five children.

Newspaper Columnist Dan Thomasson asked: What in the world was a 48-
year-old man with five children doing in the military in Iraq? The 
answer is obvious, he was a member either of the National Guard or the 
Reserve. The Guard and Reserve are being used in a way never 
contemplated. Their repeated and sustained deployments turn lives 
upside down, sometimes permanently, and have a profound impact on 
families, businesses and whole communities.

Why have they been so misused? Because there is not anyone else. 
Because our active duty force is too small to sustain our engagement in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. To have acted to ensure the burden of this war 
would be more broadly shared, that the industrial sector would be 
mobilized, and the military equipment, supply and maintenance and 
repair systems put on a war-time footing would have been expensive and 
an admission of a reality the Bush administration did not want to 
confront.

The real and immediate concern is that forces now being deployed as 
part of this surge will not have the equipment they need when they get 
there. They will have to borrow it. We are not fully prepared to 
respond effectively.

The House then is considering an expression of support or opposition 
to another failure of leadership. Nearly 23 years ago, President Ronald 
Reagan's Secretary of Defense, Caspar Weinberger, outlined in a speech 
entitled ''The Uses of Military Power,'' six tests that need to be 
applied whenever combat forces are contemplated.

One: never commit forces unless the particular situation is vital to 
our national interest or that of our allies. Two: if we are willing to 
commit the force or resources necessary to win, we should commit them 
all.

Three: we should have clearly defined political and military 
objectives. Four: the relationship between the objectives and forces, 
size, composition, disposition, must be continually reassessed and 
adjusted.

Five: we must have the support of the American people and their 
elected representatives in Congress. Six: the commitment of U.S. troops 
to combat should be a last resort. President Bush's policies have 
failed every one of then-Secretary Weinberger's tests.

What then are the consequences of this failure? Our troops are in 
peril. Our credibility is shattered and the lessons of the past are 
submerged in empty rhetoric and political dribble.



Make no mistake, we are engaged in a war of choice, a catastrophe 
conceived in ideological zeal, cloaked in misinformation and 
administered with breathtaking incompetence.

It is an outrage that we have not had a single policy in Iraq worthy 
of our men and women in uniform. This surge is yet another misstep in 
this tragic journey to disaster. We need to end it and end it now.