---
---

# None
## `994e41d6228a37709fed0092cb9a3738`
`Mr. LEVIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I will yield myself the remainder of my 
time.

Just about everybody now agrees there is no military solution in Iraq 
and that the only way to end the violence is for the Iraqi political 
leaders to settle their differences. Their own Prime Minister Maliki 
acknowledged that in November when he said, in words that all of us 
should remember:




 The crisis is political and the ones who can stop the cycle 


 of . . . bloodletting of innocents are the [Iraqi] 


 politicians.


Our brave service men and women are dying and being wounded while 
Iraqi leaders dawdle. The Iraqi leaders themselves made specific 
commitments to pass legislation relative to sharing power, sharing 
resources, amending their Constitution, holding provincial elections. 
They made those commitments to be achieved by specific dates. They were 
their commitments. We didn't impose them on them. These are their 
commitments that they have not kept. Because they have not kept their 
commitments, our troops are paying the price, caught in a crossfire of 
a civil war.

If there is any hope of forcing the Iraqi political leaders to take 
responsibility for their own country, it is to have a timetable to 
begin reducing American forces and to redeploy our forces to a more 
limited support mission instead of being everybody's target in the 
middle of a civil war. That transition is the only way we can force the 
Iraqi leaders to act.

If the Republican leader's procedural roadblock proceeds this 
morning, we will be denied the opportunity to vote on an issue which 
just about every American has strong feelings on: whether to change 
course in Iraq by setting a timetable to reduce the number of our 
troops in Iraq. Because of that procedural roadblock, we will not be 
voting at 11 o'clock on Levin-Reed but on whether to proceed to vote on 
Levin-Reed.

Our amendment deserves the chance to be voted on by this body. The 
American people deserve that vote. They deserve to know if we support a 
timetable to reduce our troop presence in Iraq. They deserve to know 
whether each of us favors a change of course in Iraq. If you do not 
agree with our amendment, vote against it. But do not prevent the 
Senate from voting on it, expressing our will on this critical issue. 
The American people deserve for us to vote up or down, do we want to 
change course in Iraq in order to improve the chance of success in 
Iraq, which can only happen if the Iraqi leaders understand we cannot 
save them from themselves.

I yield the floor.