# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT
## `99550e8a8e706f09d9042041e69f6a8e`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. At the risk of prolonging this a little longer, I 
don't think, at the end of the day, anybody in the country is going to 
believe we are obstructing this bill. This is a serious effort to 
legislate. Senator Burr has taken it very seriously. He has an 
important amendment to be offered, which will be offered later today. 
The Senate will have an opportunity to consider it.

Look, the way you get things done in the Senate is on a bipartisan 
basis, and the rules around here give the minority an opportunity to be 
involved. This is not the House of Representatives. I wish we had been 
able to get more done last year, but one of the reasons we didn't is 
because we had 34 Iraq votes. Some of my friends in the other 
conference told me last year that any week they weren't voting on Iraq 
was a bad week. We spent an awful lot of time on sense-of-the-Senate 
resolutions on Iraq last year.

Floor time is at a premium in the Senate, as the majority leader used 
to say repeatedly when he was the leader of the Democratic Party and in 
the minority. The Senate is not the House. Things don't move as 
speedily. Most observers of the Senate understand that. By Senate 
standards, this bill is going to move forward in relatively rapid order 
after the rights of the minority to offer amendments have been 
protected.

So I don't know what this little back and forth this morning is all 
about because I do think we are going to have an opportunity to get a 
bipartisan accomplishment in the very near future.

I yield the floor.