# HONORING DR. NORMAN E. BORLAUG
## `995715f405d573bcb6e0ae63b18cb008`
`Mr. EDWARDS of Texas — 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. EDWARDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, one of the greatest privileges of 
my life was to have met Dr. Norman Borlaug several years ago because of 
his position as a distinguished professor at Texas A&M University, my 
alma mater in my congressional district. It is also an honor for me 
today to rise in honor of Dr. Borlaug whose actions helped save the 
lives of a billion people and helped prevent untold conflicts across 
the globe.

To me, he is an inspiration. To others, he was a husband, father, 
grandfather, Nobel Peace Prize laureate and Congressional Gold Medal 
recipient. I believe it could be argued that he was America's greatest 
ambassador to the world. Most of us hope to make some difference for 
our communities. Dr. Borlaug made our world a better place.

Growing up on an Iowa farm, Dr. Borlaug went from cultivating fields 
to consulting global leaders all with the laudable, noble goal of 
feeding the hungry. Dr. Borlaug once said, ''Peace cannot be built on 
empty stomachs.''

For his accomplishments, he was rightfully awarded the Nobel Peace 
Price in 1970 for the way in which he used agricultural productivity to 
help create stability and prevent conflict. In 1984, as has been 
mentioned, Dr. Borlaug joined my alma mater, Texas A&M, as a 
distinguished professor of international agriculture. His work at the 
university and around the world is recognized and continued on by those 
at the Norman Borlaug Institute for International Agriculture whose 
employees are currently working in conflict areas such as Iraq and 
Afghanistan to provide assistance and food to those in need.

Despite his unrivaled achievements, Dr. Borlaug maintained a genuine 
sense of humility. He is truly an American hero whose dedication to 
agriculture positively changed the landscape of our world.