# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `99686b0219c5fb6a5a140cf61d4cc38b`
`Mr. MURTHA — 16 December 2009`

---


Mr. MURTHA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, Members of the House, this is the largest 
appropriations bill that we have ever handled. It was completely 
bipartisan. We never did anything without working together. It is 
basically the same bill we voted on before it went to the Senate but 
with a few minor changes. I am pleased to say that we made some 
conciliatory changes with the White House and also with the Senate. 
This, as a matter of fact, is $625 billion. The House passed $636 
billion. It pays for first-class medical care for military personnel.

I have to say I don't usually talk on any one thing, but having been 
out at Bethesda in intensive care for 2 days, I have to endorse the 
money that we have spent on the care at Bethesda. They did a marvelous 
job, and I am so pleased about the way the money is being handled out 
there.

Medical research, of course, the committee under my leadership and 
under the leadership of Jerry Lewis and Bill Young, has always been in 
the forefront. There are peer-reviewed programs, which have turned out 
to be as good as any programs you will find any place. We are 
supporting military families, operations and maintenance, civilian 
workforce, and insourcing. We are trying to reduce the contractors, and 
we are struggling in doing that. The inspector of general oversight, we 
worked at that for 2 or 3 years. This bill includes the MRAP program 
and $526 million for situational awareness.

In other words, this is as good a bill as we could come up with given 
the amount of money that was apportioned to us.

The Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill puts troops first, 
ensuring their readiness, providing them with first class weapons and 
equipment, and ensuring the availability of care and support for their 
families.

The bill makes critical investments in the health, well-being and 
readiness of our armed forces; addressing issues raised by service 
members, their families, and Department of Defense officials in 
testimony before the Congress, and discovered through visits to 
military bases across the United States and overseas. The bill also 
reins in the use of contractors and begins to return inherently 
governmental functions to Department of Defense personnel.

For the first time since the beginning of operations in Iraq, this 
bill includes funding for Overseas Contingency Operations in 
Afghanistan and Iraq for the upcoming fiscal year; providing $128.3 
billion to support current operations, and to meet the needs of our 
troops in the field and their families here at home. The bill does not 
address the President's new Afghanistan security strategy because the 
Administration has yet to request funding for that initiative.













[Bill total in billions]

2009 Total Enacted...............................................$625.3
President's Request...............................................640.1
House Passed......................................................636.3
Senate Passed.....................................................636.3
2010 Total Bill...................................................636.3


Military Personnel and Pay: The bill provides a 3.4 percent military 
pay increase, 0.5 percent above the request. The bill also includes $1 
billion pursuant to an amended budget request in order to increase U.S. 
Army troop strength.

First Class Medical Care: The bill recommends a total of $29.2 
billion for the Defense Health Program, $3 billion above fiscal year 
2009 and $1 billion above the 2010 request. The increase includes $307 
million above the request to provide for shortfalls in the TRICARE 
program. The bill also includes $300 million above the request for 
transportation infrastructure issues related to base closure.

To provide quality medical care for service members and their 
families, and address the serious financial challenges facing the 
Defense Health Program, the bill recommends the following funding:

HIV Research................................................$20,000,000
Wound Care Research..........................................13,000,000
Traumatic Brain Injury and Psychological Health Research ($372m budget 

+ $120m over budget)......................................120,000,000
Global HIV/AIDS Prevention...................................10,000,000
Peer-Reviewed Medical Research Program.......................50,000,000
Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research........................150,000,000
Peer-Reviewed Ovarian Cancer Research Program................18,750,000
Peer-Reviewed Prostate Cancer Research Program...............80,000,000


Supporting Military Families: The bill provides greater support for 
military families. The bill includes funding for quality child care, 
job training for spouses, and expanded counseling and outreach to 
families that have experienced the separation and stress of war. The 
bill fully funds $472.4 million for Family Advocacy programs and fully 
funds Family Support and Yellow Ribbon programs.

Operation and Maintenance: The bill recommends $154 billion for 
operation and maintenance, an increase of $1.3 billion above the fiscal 
year 2009 enacted level. The recommendation includes funding above the 
budget request for the following items:

Hybrid Operations Readiness Training (Hybrid--DoD's new terminology for 

full-spectrum training)...................................$43,000,000
Army Helicopter Readiness Training..........................142,000,000
Navy Aircraft Depot Maintenance..............................35,000,000
Environmental Restoration....................................32,500,000


The recommendation rebalances funding from preparing for Cold War-era 
types of conflicts to the highest priority readiness requirements for 
the hybrid operations that the military services will be facing for the 
foreseeable future. The bill also includes adjustments based on trends 
in DoD budget execution.

Civilian Workforce and In-Sourcing: The bill supports increased 
funding for DoD civilian personnel to in-source workload. The 
Department estimates that every position converted from contract to 
federal civilian saves on average $44,000 per year. Additionally, the 
bill includes general provisions to suspend further conversions by the 
Department of Defense from government functions to contractors.

The bill also includes $100 million, as requested, to fund further 
development and training for the DoD acquisition workforce.

Inspector General Oversight: the bill includes $288 million, $16 
million above the request, for the Inspector General to hire additional 
investigators to ensure proper oversight of DoD acquisition and 
contracting.

Procurement Programs: The bill recommends $104.4 billion for 
procurement, an increase of $3.46 billion above the fiscal year 2009 
enacted level and a decrease of $816 million below the 2010 request. 
The bill includes:

$6.8 billion, the requested amount, for the procurement of 30 F-35 
Lightning Aircraft, 16

Short Take-off and Vertical Landing variants for the Marine Corps, 4 
Carrier variants for the Navy, and 10 conventional variants for the Air 
Force.

$465 million above the request to continue development and initial 
procurement of the Alternative Engine for the Joint Strike Fighter.

$2.5 billion above the request for procurement of 10 additional C-17 
aircraft.

The bill also includes:

$6.3 billion for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle Fund, an 
increase of $825 million above the request.

$526 million as requested for Situational Awareness upgrades to 353 
Bradley Fighting Vehicles.

$498 million for the procurement of Family of Medium Tactical 
Vehicles.

$613 million for the procurement of Family of Heavy Tactical 
Vehicles.

$15 billion, $120 million above the request, for Navy Shipbuilding 
and Conversion and the National Defense Sealift Fund for the 
procurement of 7 Navy ships, including: one DDG-51 Guided Missile 
Destroyer; one SSN-774 Attack Submarine; two Littoral Combat Ships; and 
one Intra-theater Connector Ship (joint high speed vessel to move 
personnel and equipment within theater).

Additionally, this funding provides for the final increments of 
funding for the CVN-78 Aircraft Carrier, the third DDG-1000 Guided 
Missile Destroyer, and the tenth LPD-17 Amphibious Transport Dock.

$30 million, not requested, for the shipbuilding loan guarantee 
program to assist in stimulating the domestic shipbuilding industry.

$1.5 billion for the procurement of 18 F/A-18E/F Super Hornet 
Tactical aircraft, nine above the request.

$1.6 billion, the requested amount for 22 EA-18G Growler electronic 
attack aircraft.



$2.7 billion for the procurement of 30 MV-22 and five CV-22 Osprey 
aircraft.

$950 million for National Guard and Reserve Equipment.

Research and Development: The bill recommends $80.5 billion for 
research and development, an increase of $17 million above the fiscal 
year 2009 enacted level, and a $2 billion increase over the fiscal year 
2010 request. Major funding items include:

$4 billion for the continued development of the F-35 Lightning Joint 
Strike Fighter aircraft, $430 million above the President's request.

$130 million for Presidential Helicopter, of which $100 million is 
for technology capture to recoup investments in research and 
development of the VH-71, an increase of $44.8 million above the 
request.

$306 million for the development of the Next Generation Aerial 
Refueling Aircraft.

$62 million for JSTARS re-engineering research and development, an 
increase of $46 million above the request.

$202 million for the Israeli Cooperative Program (Arrow). The 
recommendation is $82.8 million above the President's request.

$50.5 million, the President's request for Ballistic Missile Defense 
European Capability.

$2.2 billion for the continued development of the restructured Future 
Combat Systems Program.

$1.2 billion for the continued development of the P-8A Multi-mission 
Maritime Aircraft.

$387.5 million, the President's request, starting development of the 
replacement for the Ohio class ballistic missile submarine.

$526 million for the continued development of the DDG-1000 Guided 
Missile Destroyer.

Overseas Contingency Operations: The recommendation addresses a 
number of policy issues concerning operations in Iraq and Afghanistan 
including:

A general provision prohibiting the establishment of permanent bases 
in Iraq or Afghanistan;

A general provision prohibiting the torture of detainees held in U.S. 
custody;

The bill provides $1.2 billion, a reduction of $300 million from the 
request for the Commanders Emergency Response Program (CERP) authority 
and fences $500 million pending a spending plan from the Department of 
Defense; and

Provides no funds for the closure of the detention facility at 
Guantanamo Naval base.
