# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `996988949fe052d1bb431c741e7034bc`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, back in December when the Iraq Study 
Group first came out with its recommendations, the recommendations were 
heralded by many people around the country as a new way forward--a new 
way forward for us to deal with this very difficult and impractical 
problem in which we find ourselves in Iraq. Those recommendations--some 
of which have been implemented and some of which have not--I believe 
still create the centerpiece for how we can find a bipartisan way 
forward for how we deal with the Iraq issue.

I have walked around with the report of the Iraq Study Group for the 
last 4 months. I am very much appreciative of the fact that the people 
who put together the report were some of the best statesmen and women 
we have in the United States of America: James A. Baker, Lee Hamilton, 
Lawrence Eagleburger, Vernon Jordan, Ed Meese, Sandra Day O'Connor, 
Leon Panetta, William Perry, Charles Robb, and Alan Simpson. Those are 
some of the best and brightest people we have in America and who are 
working on one of the most difficult issues that confronts our country 
today. So it is in the vein of their work that I come to the floor 
today with my colleague from Tennessee to suggest that their 
recommendations create the opportunity for us to provide the basis for 
some agreement among Democrats and Republicans on how we might move 
forward in dealing with the very difficult national security issue we 
face in Iraq.

As we debate this issue here in Washington, with veto pens and 
dueling press conferences, I come back to the reality of our brave 
American men and women and the dangers they face every day in the 
streets of Baghdad and al Anbar Province and in countless other places 
in that Nation which today we find in turmoil. It is for them, for our 
men and women in uniform, we must find common ground. It is for them we 
must bridge our differences here on the Senate floor to create a path 
to success in Iraq. It is for them we must develop a policy that is 
worthy of their sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.

I come to the floor today with my colleague from Tennessee to offer 
my view on how we can reach our common goal and how we can work to heal 
the deep divisions this war has caused here at home.

Not since the Vietnam war has the American public been so divided. I 
am concerned that the bitterness and the harshness of this debate is a 
debate that clouds good judgment on one of the most fundamental issues 
we deal with in the Congress: the issue of war and peace. It is 
important for us to remember that no matter how contentious this debate 
may become, every Senator shares the same goal, and that goal is peace 
and stability in the Middle East and a safe return home of our troops. 
While we may disagree on the best path to that end, we must continue to 
work together for a constructive change in our policy.

It is important to remember what binds us together as a nation is 
something we must honor so we will not be torn so far apart that we 
cannot bring our Nation back together. The Iraq Study Group report, I 
believe, embodies the best wisdom we have seen as to how we ought to 
move forward with the issue of Iraq. I believe the work of the Iraq 
Study Group is a model for how we can come together in good faith. The 
group, as I have said before, is comprised of some of the finest and 
best public servants we have in America. They worked together for 
months and they did it in a nonpartisan, nonpolitical way. They are 
from both parties. That group and their work consulted over 250 
officials and experts, including senior leaders of the Government of 
Iraq, the United States Government, and key coalition partners. They 
received advice from more than 50 distinguished scholars and experts in 
a variety of fields.

I am honored, therefore, to join Senator Lamar Alexander in appealing 
to our colleagues in the Senate to take a fresh look at the group's 
report and to consider how we can use it as our guide to create a 
successful policy for the war in Iraq.

The group proposed a new diplomatic offensive--a new diplomatic 
offensive--to deal with the problems of Iraq and the region.

I am pleased that recently the administration has moved forward in 
embracing some of the recommendations set forth in that ''new 
diplomatic offensive.''

The report provided a roadmap for transitioning our troops from a 
combat role to the training, equipping, advising and support of the 
Iraqi military.

The Iraq Study Group recommended how we can strengthen and restore 
our own military, which has been put under such strain by the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan.

In addition, the report details new policies for the Iraqi police and 
criminal justice system, the Iraqi oil sector, and for improving 
economic and security assistance programs in Iraq.

Finally, the Iraq Study Group recommended specific milestones for the 
Government of Iraq to meet. They include establishing a fair process 
for amending the constitution, revising de-Baathification laws, 
ensuring the equitable sharing of Iraqi oil revenues, holding free and 
fair provincial elections at the earliest possible date, and enacting 
legislation to ensure the rights of women and the rights of all 
minority communities in Iraq.

The Iraq Study Group concluded that with the implementation of these 
policies, all United States combat forces could be out of Iraq by the 
first quarter of 2008, except those necessary for protecting personnel 
and infrastructure, for training, equipping, and advising of Iraqi 
forces, for conducting targeted counterterrorism activities, and for 
engaging in rapid reaction and special operations.

Senator Alexander and I intend to propose legislation that will 
effectively embody this comprehensive set of recommendations.

Our bill would state the sense of the Congress that the Iraq Study 
Group's recommendations should be implemented and that the President 
should formulate a comprehensive plan to do so. It would require the 
establishment of policies and plans that implement


the core recommendations of the group. And it states that the United 
States should condition political, military, and economic support on 
the Iraqi Government making substantial progress in meeting those 
milestones detailed in the report.

The Iraq Study Group did not set a deadline for the redeployment of 
our troops, and neither would our bill. But the group did, and our bill 
would, state the policies and actions that can and should lead to the 
successful and rapid conclusion to this war.

I believe we all share that goal. I believe the distinguished members 
of the Iraq Study Group have given us the means to achieve it.

I don't believe the report of the Iraq Study Group should simply 
become another study on the shelf that gathers dust.

I will conclude with two remarks. First, here in Washington, DC, it 
seems there is a lot of poison in the air, and most issues are decided 
on a partisan basis. It is my view, as a Senator from Colorado, that 
the issues of war and peace, when we have our men and women in uniform 
in harm's way, should not be decided on the basis of Republicans versus 
Democrats. No matter what has happened in Iraq up to this time, and no 
matter what kind of finger-pointing will take place in terms of the 
wisdom or lack of wisdom on how the war has been prosecuted, the fact 
is, we are there now. Also, we have 140,000 men and women in harm's 
way.

For us in the Senate, I believe it is our responsibility to come 
together, as Democrats and Republicans, to fashion a new way forward to 
success. I believe this new way forward to success has been laid out by 
the Iraq Study Group, which didn't just look at this for an hour or a 
day or two but spent a year, under the authorization of the Congress, 
and they came up with what they thought was the best way for the United 
States to move forward in Iraq.

I am hopeful both Democrats and Republicans will join Senator Lamar 
Alexander and myself as we move forward with the introduction of this 
legislation, which we hope to do after the Memorial Day recess.

Finally, I think the working relationship Senator Alexander and I 
have on so many issues, including land and water conservation and other 
areas, is the kind of bipartisan spirit we can bring to so many issues 
that face us today. But of all the issues, the one that cries out the 
most for unity today is the 800-pound gorilla issue of the war in Iraq.

I am very pleased and honored that Senator Alexander has joined us in 
this effort today.

I yield the floor.