# WHERE IS THE TRANSPARENCY?
## `997a2e6a0dc65604680a687fb66cf32f`
`Mr. ROE of Tennessee — 12 January 2010`

---


Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Thank you, Dr. Gingrey.

A little over a year ago, I stood on this House floor and was sworn 
in for the first time in the 111th Congress, one of the proudest days 
of my life. It goes up there with my marriage, the birth of my 
grandchildren and children. It was a very proud day to be here.

I came from a background of local government, and in Tennessee, where 
we're from, I was the mayor of Johnson City, Tennessee, and was a city 
commissioner and local official. In that


State, we have a sunshine law. Everything that is discussed is 
discussed in the open. It cannot be discussed in our local city 
government. We have five officials. We cannot discuss anything between 
ourselves unless we are in the open. That means an open, scheduled 
meeting that has been published or with a TV camera on.

Let me tell you what happens, Mr. Speaker. When that happens, you get 
a better government and you get a better product when the sun shines on 
it.



I will tell you that one of the great disappointments I have had is 
when I woke up near Christmas Eve and found that one of the Senators 
had voted for a health care bill to exempt a State that other States 
are going to have to obey on. I was absolutely nauseated with that. It 
is the most unbelievable thing. It made me ashamed to be a Member of 
this great body, and I shouldn't be. I should be proud. Every Member 
should be proud and honored to belong here. We lecture Hamid Karzai in 
Afghanistan about corruption. Let him turn around and look at our 
government and say, Wait a minute. For enough money, you can get your 
vote bought off to do something. If that health care bill had had legs, 
it should have stood on its own. Let me explain to you what that means 
for other States, and let me explain to the American people what that 
means for the State of Tennessee.

Right now, we have 50 fewer State troopers than we had in 1977, and 
we have 2 million more people. For the safety of our State, we can't 
afford Medicaid, which this bill in the Senate does. If it is accepted 
without going back to the Senate and goes straight to the President, we 
will have 15 million more people who will have Medicaid. With that 
comes an obligation from the State to pay for that. We don't have any 
money to pay for it in Tennessee. Right now, our colleges do not have 
one capital improvement project on a single college campus--the 
University of Tennessee and all of the 26 board of regents colleges--
not one dormitory, not a library, not a chemistry department, not 
anything. Right now, we can't add any more people to our local Medicaid 
and Medicare plans.