# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `997da74078581955c70358a4f17e6107`
`Mr. DURBIN — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Rhode Island for 
his hard work with the Senator from Michigan in preparing this bill on 
Defense authorization.

With all due respect to the minority leader, the statement he made on 
the floor earlier is not accurate. The Republican minority leader said, 
on issues relating to Iraq, we have required 60 votes. I remind the 
Republican minority leader that the vote on the timetable on the 
supplemental appropriations bill was a simple majority vote. It was not 
a 60-vote threshold. The most important Iraq vote of the year did not 
require 60 votes on the floor of the Senate. It passed the Senate with 
a bipartisan rollcall, with 51 or 52 Members supporting it, and it was 
sent to President Bush for one of his only three vetoes since he was 
elected President. I am sure the minority leader from Kentucky 
remembers that it was not a 60-vote requirement.

Now, let's look at the Defense authorization bill here--at the 
history of the Defense authorization bill. Once again, I ask the 
minority leader from Kentucky to please look at the record. What he 
said earlier on the floor is not accurate.

In the last debate on the Defense authorization bill, there were two 
Iraq amendments offered. One was by Senators Levin and Reed and another 
by Senator Kerry. Both related to the war in Iraq, and both required 
only a majority vote.

The Senator from Kentucky has not accurately portrayed what occurred 
on the floor of the Senate either with our supplemental appropriations 
bill or the previous Defense authorization bill. Now, for those who are 
following this debate and wondering: Why are you worried about how many 
votes are required, this is what the Senate is all about. The question 
is, Will this Senate speak on the issue of the policy on the war in 
Iraq?

The Senator from Kentucky understands--because he has been a veteran 
of this body--that he does not have a majority of the Senators 
supporting his position or the position of President Bush. So he 
started this debate by saying we won't allow a majority vote.


It will take 60 votes--60 percent of the Senate--to change the policy 
on the war in Iraq. The Senator from Kentucky is betting that he can 
hold enough Republican Senators back from voting for a change in policy 
on the war in Iraq to defeat our efforts to start bringing our soldiers 
home. That is his procedural approach. He has stood by it. But he 
should confess it for what it is. It is a departure from where we have 
been on the debate on Iraq, on the supplemental appropriations bill, 
and on the Defense authorization bill.

Mr. President, it is unfortunate, and it is wrong. It is wrong to 
require 60 percent of this body to vote this way if, traditionally, on 
the war in Iraq we have required only a simple majority. I suppose it 
is encouraging to us that more than 60 percent of the American people 
get it. They understand how failed this policy has been of the Bush 
administration--the policy being supported by the minority leader of 
the Senate. They understand that. They want us to do something about 
it. But the Senator from Kentucky has thrown this obstacle in our path. 
He created this procedural roadblock. He has filibustered--starting a 
filibuster to stop the debate on the war in Iraq.

I have been here for a few years, and I have not seen a full-
throated, fully implemented filibuster that you might have recalled 
from ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,'' when Jimmy Stewart stood at his 
desk, until he crumpled in exhaustion, filibustering a bill to stop it. 
Over the years, our gentility has led us to a different kind of 
filibuster. It is a filibuster in name only, where one side says we are 
going to keep this debate going on indefinitely, and the other side 
says we are going to bring it to a close with a motion for cloture, and 
we will see you in 30 hours; have a nice time we will see you tomorrow 
morning.

We are going to change that procedure this week. Since the Republican 
side has decided they want to filibuster our effort to debate the war 
policy on Iraq, we have decided on the Democratic side that we are 
going to have a real filibuster. One of the critics of this recently 
called it a stunt that we would stay in session--a stunt that we would 
have a sleepless night for Senators, a stunt that we would 
inconvenience Senators and staff, the press, and those who follow the 
proceedings. I don't think it is a stunt. I think it reflects the 
reality of this war.


How many sleepless nights have our soldiers and their families spent 
waiting to find out whether they will come home alive? How many 
sleepless nights have they spent praying that after the second and 
third redeployment their soldier will still have the courage and 
strength to beat back the enemy and come home to their family? It is 
about time for the Senate to spend at least one sleepless night. Maybe 
it is only a symbol, but it is an important symbol for the soldiers and 
their families. It really goes to the nature of sacrifice.

I guess I was raised as a little boy reading about World War II and 
remembering the Korean war when my two brothers served. There was a 
sense of national commitment in those wars. People back home, as well 
as those on the front, believed they were in it together. Sacrifices 
had to be made, your daily living habits, the kinds of things you could 
buy, and ration cards and buying U.S. savings bonds. America was one 
united Nation in those wars. We accepted that shared sacrifice, and we 
were better for it. But during this war, sad to say, this President has 
not summoned that same spirit of sacrifice. He basically told us that 
this war can be waged without inconveniencing the lives of most 
Americans.

Our soldiers go through more than inconvenience. They go through 
hardship and deprivation. Many face injury and death in serving our 
country. But for most of us, life goes on as normal. This President 
hasn't asked great sacrifice from the American people.

When I visited Iraq, it was not uncommon to have a marine or soldier 
say to me over lunch: Does anybody know what is going on over here? 
Does anybody know what we are up against? It is a legitimate question. 
We focus on these superficial stories in the press that don't mean a 
thing and forget the obvious.

The obvious is this: Every month we are losing American lives; about 
100 American soldiers die each month in this war in Iraq, and 1,000 are 
seriously injured. We spend $12 billion each month. That is the 
reality.

I know there is frustration by the soldiers and their families that 
we are not paying close enough attention. But the American people 
understand that this failed policy from the Bush administration has to 
come to an end. Wasn't it interesting over the weekend when the Prime 
Minister of Iraq invited us to leave, and said: You can take off 
anytime you would like, America. We will take care of our own problems. 
Prime Minister al-Maliki, the man we helped to bring to office, whom we 
hoped would show the leadership in Iraq for its future, asked America 
to pick up and go whenever we would like to.

What do the Iraqi people think about our presence? Well, 69 percent 
of them say our presence in Iraq today, with our troops, makes it more 
dangerous to live there. More than 2 million of those soldiers, of 
those Iraqis, have left that country as refugees. Millions have been 
displaced from their homes. Thousands--we don't even know the number--
have been injured and killed. They want us to leave--this occupation 
Army of Americans.

What do the American people think about this occupation in Iraq? They 
want it to end as well. They don't see any end in sight. They don't 
hear from this President the kinds of strategy or direction that leads 
them to believe that this will end well or end soon. They want our 
troops to start coming home. I agree with them. I don't believe the 
Iraqis will accept responsibility for their own country until we start 
leaving. If the Iraqis know that every time there is a problem, they 
can dial 9-1-1 and bring on 20,000 of our best and bravest soldiers to 
quell the violence on their streets, what kind of incentive is that for 
them to protect their own country and make the critical political 
decisions which may lead one day to stability?

I look at this Cornyn amendment just filed. I respect my colleague 
from Texas, but I tell you, he is asking for too much. He is asking the 
United States to stay in Iraq to make certain that it succeeds. How 
long is that going to be? How long will that go on?

There are three battles going on in Iraq today: First, who is in 
charge? The Sunnis, Shia, Sadr militia, al-Qaida, or some other force? 
The Kurds also have to be part of the equation. That battle goes on 
every day on the floor of the Parliament in Iraq as they try to decide 
who is going to try to govern their country.

There is a second battle going on as well. It is a battle as to 
whether Iraq is going to be a nation. The Cornyn amendment assumes, and 
many people assume, that Iraq has been a nation forever. It has not. 
Certainly, in the depths of history, you can find Mesopotamia. We all 
read about it in the earliest civilizations, and about the Tigris and 
Euphrates. But Iraq, as we know it today, was the creation of British 
diplomats after World War I who sat down with a map and said the French 
can take Lebanon, bring in the Shia and Sunni--on and on, creating 
countries out of whole cloth at the end of a war, dividing up the soils 
of the Middle East. That was the creation of Iraq as we know it. It has 
not been in existence that long--not one century.

Iraq has to decide whether there is more that binds them than divides 
them. They have to decide whether the Kurds, Sunni, and Shia of this 
location want to come together as a nation to share in governance, in 
revenue, and to share in their future. That is an ongoing debate in 
Iraq today.

There is a third debate in Iraq today that is even deeper in history. 
It is a debate between warring Islamic factions that has been going on 
for 14 centuries. Ever since the death of the great prophet Mohammed, 
Islamic people have argued over his rightful heirs--one branch of the 
Sunni religion of Muslims or one in the Shia--and they came to 
different conclusions. They have not resolved that. Often, that 
difference of opinion has erupted into violence, which we see today on 
the streets of Iraq.

So Senator Cornyn files an amendment that says the United States 
should stay there with its forces until they resolve these three 
problems: Who is going to govern, whether there will be a nation, and 
this Islamic division. Is that what we bargained for when the President 
asked us to invade Iraq? It


certainly is not. Not one of those things was included in the 
President's request for the authorization of force in Iraq.

Do you remember why President Bush told us we had to invade Iraq? 
Saddam Hussein--a tyrant killing his own people--was a threat to the 
region and to his own country. Saddam Hussein is gone, dug out of a 
hole in the ground, put on trial by his own people, and executed.

The second reason the President said we had to invade Iraq was to 
find and destroy weapons of mass destruction. Well, we have been 
looking for 4/1/2/ years, Mr. President, for weapons of mass 
destruction, and we cannot find one. So that reason for the invasion of 
American forces is long gone. And the final, of course, was to protect 
any threat of Iraq to America's security. I can tell you that after 
Saddam Hussein was deposed and dispatched quickly by our fine military, 
and when weapons of mass destruction were not found, Iraq was no threat 
to the United States.

Now comes the new Republican rationale, the Cornyn-McConnell 
rationale: We need to stay in Iraq until they resolve century-old 
battles over the Islamic religion. We need to stay in Iraq until they 
decide whether they want to come together as a nation. We need to stay 
in Iraq until the Parliament decides to roll up its sleeves and make 
important political decisions about their future. Just how long will 
that be? How many American soldiers will be called into action for 
those goals? How many times will Congress be called on to vote for 
authorization of force to reach these objectives?

They have told us what it is all about. From the point of view of the 
Bush administration and their supporters on the Republican side of the 
aisle, there is no end in sight in our occupation of Iraq. They would 
have us stay there for a long time. The American people know better. 
They understand the sacrifices we have made.

The President likes to define this in terms of victory and defeat, 
saying if we start bringing American troops home, somehow, in his mind, 
that is a defeat. I say to the President, there are several things he 
should consider. We were not defeated when we deposed Saddam Hussein. 
We were successful. We were not defeated when we scoured that country 
and found no weapons of mass destruction. We were successful. We were 
not defeated when we gave the Iraqi people a chance for the first free 
election in their history. We were successful. We were not defeated 
when they were allowed to form their own Government to plan for their 
own future. We were successful. We certainly have not been defeated day 
to day with the courage of our men and women in uniform.

I hear an argument from time to time as well: If our troops start 
coming home now and things go badly in Iraq, those who have served and 
sacrificed and even those who have died will have done so in vain. I 
couldn't disagree more. History has taught us a very basic lesson. The 
test of courage of a soldier is not to be measured by the wisdom of 
Presidents and generals to send them into battle. Presidents and 
generals make serious mistakes. They send troops into battle where they 
have no chance to win. But those soldiers do their duty. They show 
heroism, courage, and valor, and no one--no one--can take that away 
from them.

This political debate about the wisdom of the President's foreign 
policy has reached a point where we have a number of amendments on the 
floor. The Republican leadership has established hurdles and 
blockades--everything they can find--to stop us from a vote that 
reflects the feelings of the American people. Mr. President, you know 
why? They are afraid of what the American people want. They are afraid 
the American people may prevail. So they have dreamed up this 
procedural requirement of 60 votes, a requirement that did not take 
place on the Iraq amendments on previous Defense authorization bills, a 
requirement that did not take place when it came to our supplemental.

We have offered them: Let's have a majority vote. Let's speak as a 
Senate to this issue seriously, an up-or-down vote on our amendment, an 
up-or-down vote on their amendment. They rejected it. Sixty votes--they 
have it wired. They have it figured out. There is one thing they don't 
have figured out and that is how they are going to go home and explain 
this situation, how will these Senators go back to their States after 
they have told their people they are giving up on the President's 
policy in Iraq and explain why they didn't support the only amendment 
that will seriously change our policy in Iraq?

I don't think they can. They can talk about supporting other 
amendments. There is only one amendment by the Senator from Rhode 
Island, Mr. Reed, and the Senator from Michigan, Mr. Levin, that puts a 
timetable to bring this war to a close that doesn't ask the President 
to consider our point of view but says we will use our congressional 
powers to require of the President a change in policy. Only one vote. 
Every other vote these Senators may cast, they are going to say: Oh, I 
told you I disagreed with the President and that is why I voted this 
way.

Let me tell you, they don't stand the test of scrutiny. Look 
carefully at those amendments. See if they require of the President a 
change in policy. See if they bring one American soldier safely home. 
If they don't, then they don't achieve the goals the American people 
expect of us.