---
---

# THE KUCINICH PLAN FOR EXIT FROM IRAQ
## `99815239d17c7e5984d38256ddbb21fe`
`Mr. KUCINICH — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, there is a compelling need for a new 
direction in Iraq, one that recognizes the plight of the people of 
Iraq, the false and illegal basis of the United States' war against 
Iraq, the realities on the ground which make a military resolution of 
the conflict unrealistic, and the urgent responsibility of the United 
States to use the process of diplomacy and international law to achieve 
stability in Iraq.

Today, I am presenting to Congress what is called the Kucinich Plan 
for Exit from Iraq. These are some of the elements:

1. The U.S. announces it will end the occupation, close military 
bases and withdraw.

2. The U.S. announces it will use existing funds to bring the troops 
and necessary equipment home.

3. Order a simultaneous return of all U.S. contractors to the U.S. 
and turn over all contracting work to the Iraqi government.

4. Convene a regional conference for the purpose of developing a 
security and stabilization force for Iraq.

5. Prepare an international security and peacekeeping force to move 
in, replacing U.S. troops who then return home.

6. Develop and fund a process of national reconciliation.

7. Reconstruction and jobs.

8. Reparations.

9. Political sovereignty.

10. Dealing with the Iraq economy.

11. Economic sovereignty for Iraq.

12. A process of international truth and reconciliation between the 
people of the United States and the people of Iraq.

It is time for a new direction, and the Kucinich plan offers that 
direction.
