---
---

# HONORING OUR VETERANS
## `999d163f3d9bf62f863b50d1fe200675`
`Mr. CONYERS — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, as we prepare to celebrate Memorial Day, 
Congress has a duty to honor our veterans not just with our words but 
with our deeds. I was proud to join with colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle yesterday to pass legislation that will help provide our 
courageous veterans with the resources they have earned and deserve.

Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed several pieces of 
legislation that address some of the new challenges facing veterans 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.

H.R. 2199, The Traumatic Brain Injury/Rural Veterans Outreach, 
ensures that our veterans are properly screened for Traumatic Brain 
Injury and receive the appropriate treatment. More than half of combat 
casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan have associated brain injuries, 
often due to improvised explosive devices. The legislation also expands 
VA resources to provide rural communities with ''mobile vet centers'' 
for mental health services and benefits outreach.

H.R. 612, The Returning Servicemember VA Healthcare Insurance Act 
helps ensure soldiers with mental health conditions that are often not 
immediately diagnosed, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, are 
treated by making them eligible for health care due to combat service 
for five years after leaving active duty.

H.R. 67, The Veterans Outreach Improvement Act (H.R. 67) allows the 
VA to partner with state and local governments to reach out to veterans 
and their families in ensuring they receive the benefits they have 
earned.

H.R. 2239, The Early Access to Vocational Rehabilitation and 
Employment Benefits Act extends eligibility for rehabilitation benefits 
from the Veterans' Affairs Department.

Finally, H.R. 1470, The Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans 
Act requires that chiropractic care and services be provided to 
veterans at all Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers.

Since January, the new Democratic-led Congress has worked to honor 
veterans by improving veterans' health care, strengthening benefits for 
our men and women in uniform today, and providing long-overdue benefits 
for the veterans and military retirees who have already served. I was 
proud to support the measures we passed yesterday as well as any 
legislation that will improve benefits and services for our brave men 
and women in uniform and our veterans.
