# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `99a89704a5f2e214627943bb1a4892b2`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

In this debate on Iraq, we must always be aware that the remarks are 
not to be confined only to the American people. Our words will be heard 
not just by our friends but by our enemies also. They are watching to 
see what America will do. No weakness of ours, no internal political 
struggle will go unnoticed.

The suicide bombers, the leaders of al Qaeda, the rulers of Iran, 
many others are listening, seeking encouragement for their fellow 
extremists, listening for signs of our defeat.

We know from many sources that al Qaeda, the terrorists in Iraq, and 
our enemies planning further attacks on us closely follow what is said 
and what is done in the United States and use that knowledge to help 
them calculate their next steps against us. They routinely cite 
statements by U.S. sources as validation of their strategy to defeat 
America.

Let me quote Muhammad Saadi, a senior leader of the Islamic jihad, 
who said that talk of withdrawal from Iraq makes him feel ''proud.'' He 
said: ''As Arabs and Muslims we feel proud, very proud from the great 
successes of the Iraqi resistance, this success that brought the big 
superpower of the world to discuss a possible withdrawal.''

They are looking for concessions of defeat, signs of weakness, and it 
is within this context that we embark on this debate today.

The question before us concerns not the past but the future. Where 
should our country go from here? We are not merely debating a 
resolution, but we are deliberating on our Nation's future.

The war in Iraq is but a part of a far larger struggle, a global 
struggle, the struggle against Islamic extremist militants. As in the 
Cold War, our current struggle is one of survival. The enemy does not 
mean merely to chase us away. The goal of the Islamic extremist 
radicals is to destroy us. If we run, they will pursue. If we cower, 
they will strike.

The choice before us is this: Do we fight and defeat the enemy, or do 
we retreat and surrender? We must not fool ourselves into believing 
that we can accommodate our enemies and thereby secure their 
cooperation. We should not believe that the enemies' demands are 
limited and reasonable and thus easily satisfied or that we can find 
safety by withdrawing from the world. This strategy has been tried in 
the past with catastrophic consequences.

Neville Chamberlain genuinely believed that he had brought ''peace in 
our time'' by washing his hands of what he believed to be an isolated 
dispute in what he termed ''a far-away country between people of whom 
we know nothing.'' That country was Czechoslovakia, and Chamberlain's 
well-intentioned efforts to withdraw Britain from the problems in that 
far-away region only ensured that an immensely larger threat was 
thereby unleashed.

The threat of Hitler did not appear suddenly out of a vacuum. The 
challenges that we face today thus have been building for many years.

We experienced the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. 
The destruction of our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, the bombing of 
the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia in 1998, the attack on the USS Cole 
in 2000, and then most dramatically the attack on our Nation on 9/11.

As these attacks built over the years, we did little in response. Our 
enemies came to believe that they could strike us with impunity and 
that we would shrink from our responsibilities, from defending our 
interests, that we would not stand up for our very own survival. They 
felt safe in planning for larger attacks.

Now our fight is truly one of global proportions. Some may not want 
to believe it. The terrorists, however, are certain to believe it. As 
stated by senior al Qaeda leader al Zawahiri, '' . . . Jihad in Iraq 
requires several incremental goals. The first stage: expel the 
Americans from Iraq. The second stage: establish an Islamic authority 
or emirate, then develop it and support it until it achieves the level 
of a caliphate, over as much territory as you can, to spread its power 
in Iraq.''

He continues: ''The third stage: extend the jihad wave to the secular 
countries neighboring Iraq. The fourth stage: It may coincide with what 
came before, the clash with Israel, because Israel was established only 
to challenge any new Islamic entity.''

These are the words of al Zawahiri, not my words. And this al Qaeda 
leader went on to say: ''The whole world is an open field for us.''

What then are the consequences of a U.S. withdrawal and surrender? 
The terrorists, our mortal enemies, will have demonstrated that they 
have defeated us, the strongest power on Earth. They will have proven 
that our enemies only have to make the cost too high for us and that we 
will give up. The result would be an extraordinary boost to their 
morale and standing in the world, resulting from such a historic and 
momentous accomplishment on their part. They will become heroes in the 
minds of millions. They will be inundated with recruits, with 
financing, with support of all types.



And they will be eager to go after us.



A leader of the terrorist organization Islamic Jihad recently said of 
an American withdrawal from Iraq, ''There is no chance that the 
resistance will stop.'' He said an American withdrawal from Iraq would 
''prove that resistance is the most important tool and that this tool 
works. The victory of the Iraqi revolution will mark an important step 
in the history of the region and in the attitude regarding the United 
States.''

These are his words, not mine.

We know that the terrorists would draw these conclusions because they 
have done so before when we recoiled in the face of terrorist attacks. 
In bin Laden's 1996 Declaration of Jihad and other statements, bin 
Laden repeatedly pointed to America's weakness being its low threshold 
for pain. As evidence, he pointed to the U.S. withdrawal from Somalia 
in 1993 because of casualties from attacks by al Qaeda and its allies.

Bin Laden said, ''When tens of your soldiers were killed in minor 
battles and one American pilot was dragged in the streets of Mogadishu, 
you left the area carrying disappointment, humiliation, defeat and your 
dead with you. The extent of your impotence and your weakness became 
very clear.''

These are bin Laden's words, not mine.

We witnessed the consequences of Somalia and the ensuing inaction. 
However, the implications for withdrawal and surrender in Iraq could be 
even greater. There would be an intensification of the violence.

As the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq recently affirmed, ''If 
Coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the term of this 
estimate, we judge that this almost certainly would lead to a 
significant increase in the scale and scope of sectarian conflict in 
Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the Iraqi Government, and have 
adverse consequences for national reconciliation.''

Iraq would become, as one of my Democratic colleagues said in 
December of 2005, a ''snakepit for terrorists.''

Sunni Arabs throughout the Middle East would certainly view the 
resulting situation as a Shiite victory in Iraq and, in turn, as a win 
for the regime in Iran. Neighboring countries would likely seek to 
prevent Iranian domination of Iraq and the region by providing 
financial and other support, including potentially troops, to anti-
Iranian factions.

It would be interpreted as a defeat of the U.S. and would thus 
strengthen rogue regimes in Syria and Iran. Iran would be free to 
expand its influence throughout the Middle East, including its long-
term effort to dominate the Persian Gulf and the world's oil supply.

Iran's sponsorship of terrorist organizations such as Hamas and 
Hezbollah would likely increase, thereby ensuring the murder of 
countless civilians and a further destabilization of countries in the 
region and indeed beyond.

Let us not forget that Iran's proxy, Hezbollah, twice attacked in our 
own hemisphere, in Argentina, in the mid-1990s. Let us not forget that 
in 2002 a court case in the United States found that one of two men 
were convicted of financing Hezbollah of $2 million in illegal activity 
here in the United States and that last year an individual from Detroit 
was charged with supporting Hezbollah financially and was described by 
the United States Attorney in the case as a ''fighter, recruiter and a 
fundraiser.''

Let us not forget that Iran is a nation believed to be pursuing 
nuclear weapons, and thus leaving the region vulnerable to Iranian 
domination, and that would have grave consequences for the U.S. 
security priorities.

Surrendering Iraq over to the terrorists would erode the trust of the 
U.S. in that region and affect our critical regional interests in the 
entire neighborhood. Our allies, such as Kuwait, Jordan, Bahrain and 
Egypt may become reluctant to continue their cooperation with us, which 
currently includes providing access to their facilities, logistical 
support that we need to protect our interests in the region.

The damage would not be confined, however, to the Middle East. Our 
enemies would be encouraged to join forces in a coalition to directly 
challenge the United States and expand their efforts to undermine us 
and our allies.

It is already happening. Venezuela's strongman Hugo Chavez is openly 
forming an alliance with Iran, and recently called on Iran and 
Venezuela to join forces to ''finish off the U.S. empire,'' quoting 
him.

Let us consider the consequences of withdrawing and surrendering Iraq 
to Islamic militant extremists. As James Woolsey, the former Director 
of the Central Intelligence Agency, has emphasized, ''We have to do our 
damndest to win this thing, in spite of the history of mistakes in 
tactics and strategy. The stakes are too high to do otherwise. The 
whirlwind we will reap if we lose means that we owe it to the world and 
to future generations to do everything humanly possible to avoid giving 
the Islamists the encouragement they will certainly obtain if they 
win.''

Mr. Speaker, this is not just an abstract policy discussion for me. 
This is a subject close to my heart. My stepson Doug and his wife 
Lindsay are both marine pilots who served in Iraq alongside many other 
brave Americans. They understand the consequences of defeat. They 
recognize the deadly enemy that we are facing.

Lindsay will soon be deployed to Afghanistan, in just a few weeks, 
where, depending on our actions in this Chamber this week, she could 
face a more deadly enemy. All of us, all of us long for a world in 
which the mortal challenge of Islamic militant extremism does not 
exist. But that world is a fantasy, and that is the world that this 
resolution seems to address.

Many times in our history we have met with great challenges, and many 
of them seemed insurmountable. And yet every time we rose to face them, 
and we prevailed. We are faced once again with an overwhelming 
challenge, that of Islamic militant extremists focused on our 
destruction and on world domination. There is no path backward, there 
is no retreat, because that will only bring disaster.

I am saddened that some in this Chamber have felt the need on this 
floor to characterize the decision of our young men and women to join 
the military as being motivated by money, by bonuses and by other 
financial benefits, rather than their patriotism.

My stepson Doug and my daughter-in-law Lindsay are both college 
graduates. Doug is a graduate of the University of Miami. Lindsay is a 
graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and has a master's in English. They 
have many, many opportunities they could have pursued. They chose to 
serve their country, because they and many others are patriots. They 
did not do it for bonuses. They did not do it for money.

Let us not just support our troops. Let us support their mission. And 
their mission is to defeat the Islamic extremists.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.