---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `99ade2eca0adba996f73cf42e2fe584c`
`Mr. REID â€” 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this morning the Senate will immediately 
resume consideration of H.R. 1495. The debate will continue until 10:30 
on the four pending Iraq-related amendments.

The debate time until 10:30 is equally divided and controlled between 
the two leaders, with the final 20 minutes shared by the two leaders. I 
will have the last 10 minutes of that 20-minute period.

There will be 2 minutes of debate prior to each vote. After the first 
vote, the remaining votes in sequence will be limited to 10 minutes. I 
hope Members would not leave the Chamber area during the votes as time 
for the votes will have to be strictly enforced. Since these amendments 
are first-degree amendments, except for the Feingold amendment, Members 
have until 9:30 this morning to file any germane second-degree 
amendments.

Once these Iraq-related amendments are disposed of, then the managers 
of the water resources legislation hope to shortly conclude the entire 
legislation. I hope that can be the case.

With the cooperation of the Senate last night, we have moved the 
cloture vote on the motion to proceed to the immigration legislation 
until Monday, May 21. This will allow negotiations to continue for a 
few more days.

I mentioned that a lot of work is needed to be done this week, 
including the supplemental appropriations bill and the budget 
resolution. We have other things we are working on to get teed up for 
next week. We have so much to do, Mr. President.

Also, last night, with the cooperation of the Republican leader and 
the rest of the Senate, we forged a path for the consideration of these 
two items, these two items tomorrow, the budget and the WRDA matter. So 
I, again, thank the Members for their cooperation.
