# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `99b0968ddb23f15e3e1bd4b634bce344`
`Mr. BROWN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. BROWN. I thank the Chair, and I thank Senator Webb for his 
leadership on this important issue as I rise in support of the Webb 
amendment.

This amendment, first and foremost, is about supporting our troops. 
It is about supporting the military families. Every Member of this 
body, some even more than others, talk about their support for our 
troops. Many put the yellow ribbon magnets on their cars, many wear 
other kinds of clothing to show their support for the troops. They talk 
about it at home, they talk about it here. This vote will put that 
support for our troops into action.

This amendment ensures that our military gets the rest at home they 
deserve; that our military readiness gets the support it needs. This 
amendment will ensure that our National Guardsmen will stay at home for 
at least 3 years after returning from deployment, the men and women of 
the Guard who leave businesses, jobs, and families on hold while 
bravely serving our Nation.

The current Iraq policy is overextending our troops and placing 
unacceptable burdens on families back home, with spouses often acting 
as single parents, doing their very best, in sometimes worse economic 
times, to keep their families together.

I have met with these families for 4 years, going back as early as 
2003, soon after tens of thousands of American troops were deployed in 
Iraq. They would talk frequently about the shortage of body armor. They 
talked frequently about the shortage of bottled water, about hygiene 
products, and all kinds of things our troops needed as our Government 
rushed into war in 2003 without adequately supplying them. Families 
would raise money at events to provide the body armor and to send 
bottled water and hygiene products or whatever their loved ones needed 
in Iraq.

Our Government didn't do what it should have done back then because 
of the poor civilian leadership and its lack of preparation for this 
war in Iraq. I heard comments over and over about the difficulty of 
adjusting, as those troops came back home, due to the lack of foresight 
and the lack of planning on the part of the civilian leadership of our 
military.

Our Armed Forces have served bravely and honorably again and again, 
deployment after deployment, often without, as I said, the proper body 
armor, proper vehicle protection, proper training, and dwell time 
between deployments. We fought in this body and in the House for more 
body armor, we fought for more MRAPS, the triangular-bottomed vehicles. 
We shouldn't have to fight to allow our soldiers the proper amount of 
time between deployments.

The requirement in this amendment for dwell time is something the 
military has voluntarily done for decades because they know that serves 
the troops well, they know it serves the families well, and they know 
principally it serves the military well to have that dwell time between 
deployments. The 1-to-1 standard in the Webb amendment is actually 
below the historic standard of the Department of Defense for dwell 
time. We could do even better than this.

We can debate about our role in Iraq's civil war, we can debate 
timelines for ending our involvement, we can debate how much money we 
should spend in Iraq, but we shouldn't need to debate how much rest, 
preparation, and training our troops get before they go back off to 
war. Everyone in this Chamber talks about supporting our troops, even 
as our President failed to provide body armor and MRAPs, failed to 
provide support and supplies, and even as our President has failed to 
provide enough money for medical care for the Veterans' Administration 
for when our troops return home. Everyone in this Chamber talks about 
supporting our troops, but this amendment puts the soldiers and their 
families first.

They have done their job. It is time we do ours.

I yield the floor.