---
---

# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `99b7b3b914ed074c83468123fec30b9b`
`Mr. THORNBERRY — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Madam Chair, I want to express my strong support for that section of 
the bill which was produced by the Terrorism and Unconventional Threats 
and Capabilities Subcommittee. I especially appreciate the efforts and 
cooperative spirit of the chairman, Adam Smith, and the work of the 
subcommittee members and the staff.

As he mentioned a few moments ago, that section of the bill supports 
the 5-year growth plan for the Special Operations Forces, which was 
recommended by the 2005 QDR. It also improves the Department's ability 
to harness technological innovation and funds the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency, DARPA, as well as other basic research in the 
Department.

Madam Chair, as we discuss the various sections of this very large 
bill, I also think it is important that we step back and remember the 
broader context in which we operate. One is that we face a ruthless, 
determined, adaptable adversary who at this moment is concentrating 
their efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq, but poses a threat to us and our 
allies all over the world. We live in a world where technology that can 
destroy massive numbers of human lives is spreading around the world, 
and some of the places where that technology exists are not as 
politically stable as we would like.

We face threats to our country using some of the very technology we 
rely upon, whether it's satellites or whether it's the Internet; and in 
the face of all that, we have national security structures that were 
developed during the Cold War. And as with all large organizations, the 
Department of Defense and other government agencies have a difficult 
time adapting.

It may be that the most important part of this bill is the funding of 
a study to recommend changes in the National Security Act of 1947, 
which will help us be better organized and better adaptable for the 
security challenges in the future.

Madam Chair, I'd like to make one other point that concerns me about 
the broader national security context in which we operate. There is 
much that is in this bill that is very good. We will debate some 
important amendments and a lot of amendments that are not that deal 
with smaller issues, and then I expect that this bill will pass by a 
very large vote.

And then next week or the week thereafter, we are going to have 
another vote that will undercut much of the good that is in this bill 
by giving hope to our enemies and discouragement to our friends. This 
Congress will pat itself on the back for passing a pay raise for the 
troops, but then it will tie the hands of the commanders who are sent 
to implement the Nation's strategy.

This Congress will make the job of the military in fighting 
terrorists in key places harder by the political debate and by the 
actions we take; and so I would encourage Members to read and study 
''Unconventional Warfare,'' and I think they will find, as one writer 
put it, that it uses all available networks, political, economic, 
social and military, to convince the enemy's political decision-makers 
that their goals are unachievable or too costly.

And so, Madam Chair, it would seem to me to be a sad day if this 
Congress takes action that undoes the good that our military does every 
day on the ground, the achievements that they win in the field; and yet 
I fear, by some of the votes that we've taken, that may be dangerously 
the direction we may be headed.