# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `99b8c0b5e2b8106f416a5174934f899d`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 332 provides for consideration of 
the conference report for H.R. 1591, making emergency supplemental 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for 
other purposes. The rule waives all points of order against the 
conference report and against its consideration. It also provides that 
the conference report shall be considered as read.

Mr. Speaker, after 4 years of the administration's relentless 
mismanagement of the Iraq war, mismanagement that has needlessly 
endangered our soldiers and lost countless Iraqi lives, this new 
Democratic Congress is determined to exercise our constitutional duty 
and to change the Nation's course in Iraq. We are hardly alone in our 
estimation of what must be done there.

A growing chorus of opinion has coalesced around the need for a new 
direction. Virtually all of our generals agree that this fight cannot 
be won militarily, and General David Petraeus has said that the 
American mission in Iraq is 20 percent military and 80 percent 
political, economic and diplomatic.

He is joined by the Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, who applauded 
this debate, saying it will demonstrate to the Iraqi leadership that 
America will no longer tolerate an open-ended commitment without any 
benchmarks for success.

James A. Baker and Lee Hamilton of the President's own Iraq Study 
Group have called for the American military to focus on training Iraqi 
security forces instead of conducting endless security sweeps.

Retired generals have joined in as well. Retired Lieutenant General 
William E. Odom, to name just one, has said that the proposed change in 
course will, and I quote, ''re-orient U.S. strategy to achieve regional 
stability, and win help from many other countries--the only way peace 
will eventually be achieved.''

What of the people of the United States of America? It is their sons 
and daughters, their husbands and wives, their friends and family who 
have fought, have been injured and died in this war by the tens of 
thousands.

They, more than anyone else, have demanded that America's mission in 
Iraq be changed. This bill is a statement that Congress will no longer 
fund the war as it exists today.

With it, Democrats are demanding accountability and requiring that 
future support be based on tangible progress being made. We are 
refusing to ask our soldiers to continue fighting an open-ended battle 
to achieve goals that are constantly being altered. Such a request is 
not worthy of their sacrifice.

Let me say also that while the President said that this bill is 
nothing more than a political statement, the opposite is the case. Our 
bill reconciles hard realities with our most fundamental principles. It 
both protects our soldiers and seeks to give them the best chance to 
help to produce a secure Iraq. It could not be more sincere, and it 
will soon be on the President's desk. If he rejects it, that will be 
his political statement and not ours.

Finally, I must add briefly that this legislation also contains $18 
billion to be spent on critically needed health care for the veterans 
injured in Iraq and Afghanistan, particularly for the traumatic brain 
injury victims, for Katrina recovery operations, for the avian flu 
vaccines, wildfire prevention, and for health insurance for children, 
among many other things. Those things are what supplemental bills have 
always been for, not to fund wars.

The President and his allies have chosen to dismiss this spending as 
unjustifiable pork. They have asked Congress to deliver a clean bill, 
in their words, but I can't think of programs much cleaner and more 
worthy of our support than those I just mentioned.

The definition of a great nation is one that has the power to define 
its own destiny and that uses its strength wisely to help others in 
need. Insurgents who seek to destroy what is left of the Iraq society 
are abominable, but they can do far less damage to our country than we 
do to ourselves by pursuing flawed policies that deplete our Armed 
Forces, undermine our alliances, and lessen our influence and moral 
authority around the world.



Why should we do what they cannot?

At the same time, the Iraqi people deserve so much more than the life 
of fear they now lead. But America can be true to itself; we must have 
the humility and the vision to recognize what is working and what is 
not, and to correct our failures when reality demands it.

I believe that we are, indeed, a great Nation, Mr. Speaker. We have 
the ability to choose our own way forward. Starting today, starting 
here, we can choose to reject a path that is failing our soldiers, our 
citizens, and the people of Iraq. And we can set a new course that 
offers a real chance for a better future instead of endless, 
unfulfilled promises.

This bill is the first step on that new course, and I urge everybody 
in this body and in the White House to see it for what it truly is. It 
is not an admission of defeat, but it is proof that our country has the 
courage and the foresight needed to truly act like the great Nation 
that we truly are.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.