---
---

# None
## `99b96ebd30953d8379725e1c75898fb4`
`Mr. INHOFE — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, first, I thank the Senator from 
Massachusetts for working out this unanimous consent agreement. These 
things are sometimes complicated. I know he has just as strong beliefs 
about his amendment as I do in opposition. I think this will 
accommodate it. Let me go ahead, if I might, and take a few minutes.

It would be disrespectful for me to walk in here and ask the last two 
Senators who were talking what they have been smoking recently. I do 
not understand how someone can say they came back a few weeks ago from 
Iraq and then have a report like this. It is just incredible.

I have to say, I know I have been in the Iraqi AOR more than any 
other Member of the House, any other Member of the Senate, anybody 
else. I take this very seriously. I am on the Senate Armed Services 
Committee. I spend time studying this issue, the most critical issue 
facing Americans today, and that is this war on terrorism. It is one 
that we are winning and we can win.

I have to tell you, I spent this last weekend with--it was my 14th 
trip there. I was there. I was walking around, rolling around in the 
sand in Anbar Province. I was shocked at what I saw. Maybe someone, 
giving them the benefit of the doubt, if they have been there and it 
has been a few weeks--maybe this really hasn't worked. But lets keep in 
mind the surge policy came in in February. So we need to look and see 
what it is that has happened since February that is working.

I have to say this also: General Petraeus is the guy in charge. Here 
we are sitting down talking about micromanaging a war with 435 Members 
of the House and 100 Members of the Senate, when we have a President 
who is doing the job that the Constitution tells him to do. Yet we are 
trying to interfere with that process.

Going back to some of the previous trips, I watched as time went by 
over the last 5 years, each time I go back, a greater level of 
cooperation that we are finding from the Iraqis. This last time--I 
think I have to give credit to some of the people who are talking 
about--the-cut-and-run crowd. The surrender crowd, has got the Iraqi's 
attention. I see that they are, in fact, becoming a lot more aggressive 
in what they are doing right now. But I am going to share with you--
this is new stuff, this just happened 2 days ago. This isn't something 
that might have happened 5 years ago or longer than that.

I remember a couple of weeks ago when General Petraeus came to 
Congress. He gave a report. It was a classified briefing on the fourth 
floor and then he had some news conferences. He gave some positive 
comments. I carry those around with me.

He said:




 Anbar has gone from being assessed as being lost to a 


 situation that is now quite heartening.


He said:




 We have, in Ramadi, reclaimed that city.


He said:




 We are ahead with respect to reduction of sectarian 


 violence and murders in Baghdad by about a third, about 33 


 percent.


These are the things that were happening at that time. I thought, you 
know, a lot of the people who really just do not think we need a 
military to start with and aren't concerned about what is happening to 
us over there might say General Petraeus was overly optimistic; he was 
not being conservative; and he is telling us things that flat aren't 
true. So I thought I would go over and find out.

I went over. I was there this weekend. I spent most of my time, not 
in Baghdad, not in places where people go, but in Anbar Province. I 
spent my time in Taqaddum--an area nobody else goes to, to my 
knowledge, nobody has been to--and Ramadi and Fallujah. That is what we 
are talking about when we talk about Anbar Province.

The reason that is important is that is where most of the violence 
has taken place. That is where we have watched, as time went by--where 
we lost the most lives. We remember so well hearing the stories about 
our marines in Fallujah going door to door, very similar to what was 
happening in World War II. And that is a fact, they were.

And that is a fact. They were. But then along came the surge and 
along came General Petraeus. I have to tell you, General Petraeus was 
being very conservative when he was here 10 days ago or 2 weeks ago, 
whatever it was.

I am going to tell you exactly what is happening there now. And these 
people


who are the prophets of doom, I hope they are listening.

First of all, let's just take Ramadi. That is the area which was 
supposed to be the toughest area. You might remember a year ago al-
Qaida controlled that city. They held a parade a year ago, and they 
declared--after that parade, they said now Ramadi is their capital, the 
capital of terrorism, the capital of al-Qaida.

Well, that is what happened a year ago. A year ago, we had a total of 
2,000 Iraqi security forces. You know the whole idea here is to get 
Iraqi security forces trained, equipped, and let them take care of 
their own problems and their own terrorism that is coming in. Keep in 
mind that these terrorists are not after Americans; they are after 
Iraqis. They do not want freedom in that country. Back then, at that 
time, when they bragged, when al-Qaida bragged that Ramadi was their 
capital, we only had 2,000 Iraqi security forces. That is all. Do you 
know how many we have now? We have 12,200 trained and equipped Iraqi 
security forces in Ramadi.

Things are happening there. They had 1,200 people volunteer from 
Ramadi for the Iraqi security forces, more than they could train and 
handle--in 1 day, 1 day. Well, they have things that are going on, 
showing them support for the Iraqi people.

We all know that in our own hometowns, we have this thing called 
Neighborhood Watch Programs where we are going to try to stop crime. 
They have one there too; it is called the neighborhood security watch. 
This is where civilians--not military, not armed--these people put on 
little orange jackets and go out, and they try to find where IEDs are 
hidden, where explosive devices are hidden. They have spray paint, 
orange spray paint, and they will put a circle around where they are. 
Then our troops will go in there and detonate them, and then everyone 
is fine. Before that, we were losing American lives by walking into 
these situations. That is not happening now. This is because of the 
neighborhoods. These are the Iraqi people.

The troops have reclaimed Ramadi, very clearly. If you just look at 
Ramadi--one city--since February, overall attacks are down 74 percent. 
That is since February. That is when the surge was announced. The IED 
attacks are down 81 percent--not 10 percent, not 15 percent, 81 
percent. It is a huge success story.

In Fallujah, you know, I can remember going to Fallujah years ago--
Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that if I go over my 10 
minutes, I have a few extra minutes and it will be deducted from my 
time.