---
---

# None
## `99d1995b61b36352704fb1c8a554f96b`
`Mr. THUNE — 24 September 2008`

---

 Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today I honor Ross A. Murphey, a 
great patriot and first Sergeant in the South Dakota National Guard. 
Ross was the longest serving enlisted personnel in the history of the 
South Dakota National Guard.

Ross Murphey began his outstanding service in the South Dakota 
National Guard on March 13, 1966. As a senior in high school, Ross 
served in Headquarters and Headquarters Company in the 109th Battalion. 
Ross remained with the 109th until January 4, 1968, when the 842nd 
Engineer Company was formed in Northern Black Hills Region. He spent 
the next 37 years with the 842nd and eventually was transferred to Camp 
Rapid in Rapid City, SD. He served with Camp Rapid from September 14, 
2005, until his retirement on August 13, 2008. Ross' leadership and 
commitment to the National Guard have been recognized numerous times, 
including meritorious service medals, state awards and the Bronze 
DeFleury award.

With hard work and dedication, Ross obtained a senior grade rank of 
First Sergeant. He served multiple times with the 842nd, including time 
served in Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom at Baghdad 
International Airport.

Ross' devoted service to country and longevity are an inspiration to 
us all. Ross Murphey served the South Dakota National Guard with 
commitment and honor. I commend him for his 42 years of service to 
South Dakota and to our country.
