---
---

# FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007
## `99e6f6eac2ea0d9486bd1360327125e1`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 10 December 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I know for most of the day today we 
have been speaking about the importance of the 2007 farm bill, which is 
about food, about fiber, and about our fuel security. It is a very 
important piece of legislation. We are very hopeful we will be able to 
get a farm bill completed very soon that can then go to the President 
for his signature.

I wish to spend a few minutes talking about another piece of 
legislation which many of us have spent a great deal of time working on 
over the last year under the leadership of Senator Bingaman; and that 
is the Energy bill which came through this Chamber with a very 
significant, bipartisan vote and which is a very good bill that moves 
us forward into the new era of a clean energy economy for the United 
States that will help us lead the world on how we can embrace the clean 
energy economy for our country.

From my point of view, when I look at the reasons why we need to move 
forward with this clean energy economy, it comes down to three very 
simple reasons. The first is our national security, the second is our 
environmental security, and the third is the economic opportunities for 
our country.

On the first of those principles, when we think about what has 
happened to America since the 1970s and beyond, it is that America has 
slept. America has slept while we put our heads and our necks in the 
noose of the powers from foreign countries that are the petropowers 
that essentially control the oil resources of our country.

Many of us will remember when President Richard Nixon stood before 
the country and coined the term ''energy independence.'' His view was 
that because of the formation of OPEC, we in the United States of 
America were in a position where what we were doing was abandoning the 
possibility of our independence because of the formation of this very 
powerful cartel called OPEC. So he said: We have to be energy 
independent.

Many of us in my generation will remember the nighttime prime-time 
speech President Carter gave where he spoke about the moral imperative 
of energy independence. He called it the equivalent of war, that it had 
the same kind of moral equivalency in terms of us moving forward with 
energy independence.

Yet what has happened from the 1970s, through the 1980s, through the 
1990s, and here as we begin this new 21st century, is the fact that we 
have gone from a point where we were importing 30 percent of our oil 
from foreign countries to the point where today, in March of this year, 
2007, we imported 67 percent of our oil from foreign countries. That is 
67 percent of our oil from foreign countries. So when you think about 
what has happened, those warnings and the visions that were set out by 
President Carter and President Nixon simply have not materialized. The 
United States of America has had a failed policy on energy, and it is 
high time that we in Washington, DC, in our Nation's Capital, take the 
bull by the horns and put us in a position where we can move forward 
with a new ethic and a new set of programs that will get us to energy 
independence.


Yes, this President--with whom I disagree on a number of different 
issues--came to the joint session of Congress in his last two State of 
the Union addresses, and he talked about the addiction of the United 
States to oil and how it was time for us to get rid of our addiction to 
foreign oil. Well, he is right in that concept. Now, what we need to do 
is to have a set of programs that gets rid of that addiction to foreign 
oil. Our farm bill does that, as my friend from South Dakota spoke 
about, and as I spoke about earlier, because we have a very robust 
energy title in this farm bill. But the energy legislation which was 
passed out of this body a few months ago also is a very good step in 
that direction because of the significant components that are included 
in it.

Now, when I look at the foreign policy issues--I, like most of my 
colleagues in the Senate, have traveled to the Middle East. I have 
traveled to Iraq three times in the last 3 years. I have been on the 
border between Lebanon and Israel, looking down at Hezbollah 
encampments. For all of us who are concerned about what is going to 
happen to the United States and its future, I think we all recognize 
the foreign policy implications of our addiction to oil.


I asked myself--when I looked down at the Hezbollah encampments where I 
saw Hamas activities--where is that money coming from to fuel these 
armies to be able to be created, and where is the money coming from 
that is giving to them the kinds of armaments that they have today? The 
money is coming from us here in America as we pay $3 and $4 a gallon 
for gasoline or for diesel and $89 to $100 now for every barrel of oil 
that is imported into this country. We are creating a wealth transfer 
from America to those petro nations that don't have the interests of 
the Western World and certainly not the interests of the United States 
at heart. So we are compromising our foreign policy by this addiction 
to foreign oil. That inescapable force should bring together 
progressives and conservatives, Democrats and Republicans, to work 
together on a real agenda for energy independence.

It was only a short few days after I arrived in Washington that I 
received a visit from a conservative and a progressive in my office who 
asked me if I would join a number of my colleagues on an agenda called 
the Set America Free agenda. Those friends who came to talk to me that 
day were my former Senator and good friend from Colorado, Tim Wirth, 
along with C. Boyden Gray, who is one of the best known conservatives 
in this country. They said it was time for us to start working 
together--progressives and conservatives, Republicans and Democrats--on 
an agenda to Set America Free. So the inescapable force of our own 
foreign policy and our need to be an independent America, that is 
independent from these forces of the Middle East and Venezuela--it is 
important for us to make sure we move forward with a strong program on 
energy independence.

The second principle at stake in the energy legislation which is now 
under discussion has to do with our environmental security. The time 
for us to argue about whether global warming is here I think has 
passed. I think the scientific community concluded long ago that the 
issue of global warming was a real issue. Yes, we will have debates on 
the floor of the Senate. There are debates I know that were conducted 
in the EPW Committee in the Senate just last week about what is the 
best way to move forward. But I think everyone has concluded we do need 
to deal with the issue. We do need to somehow formulate the best 
approach of how we are going to move forward to deal with the reality 
of global warming because otherwise it puts the planet and puts 
civilization very much in jeopardy.

So we have foreign policy and our national security, we have 
environmental security which compels us to act, and then we have the 
economic security of our Nation and the economic opportunities that a 
clean energy economy also embraces. We have spoken about some of those 
opportunities on the floor of the Senate today. Some of those 
opportunities I have seen blossom in my own State of Colorado over the 
last 2 years in a way that I am very proud of, but I am also proud of 
the fact that they are also blossoming in other places around the 
country. The National Renewable Energy Lab in Golden, CO, is truly one 
of the crown jewels on renewable energy and efficiency. It is a place 
which has been visited by Democrats and Republicans alike.

Senator Harkin, as the chairman of our committee, actually in the 
formation of the farm bill, spent some time at the National Renewable 
Energy Lab in Golden, CO, as well as those who visited it, as President 
Bush did a year and a half or 2 years ago, found the best in technology 
in terms of energy. They will tell you the only limitation we have in 
terms of how far we can go with the renewable energy revolution is the 
limitation that we impose upon ourselves. When you ask them to tell you 
candidly whether we can be in a position where we can develop 30 
percent of our energy from renewable energy resources by the year 2020, 
they will tell you that if you want to, we can, in fact, do it. So the 
scientists who have the best knowledge on the research and the 
technology tell us that a lot is possible in the renewable energy 
equation.


Now, because we have developed these technologies, we are also seeing 
a lot of economic activity throughout our country. In my State, again, 
in Colorado, when you go to the land of the turquoise skies, my native 
San Luis Valley where the Sun shines about 350 days of the year, we 
have the largest solar electrical generating plant now in existence in 
the world. There are other efforts that are underway in places such as 
Bakersfield, CA, where a company there within the next 2 years will be 
able to have completed the construction of a solar electrical 
powerplant that will generate 175 megawatts from one powerplant. So 
there is tremendous capacity underway that is being built all around 
the country as we harness the power of the Sun.

We are also harnessing the power of the wind, as I said. In my State, 
we are on the verge of getting to the point where we can generate 1,000 
megawatts of power from the wind. We are not stopping with the power of 
the wind. We are moving forward with ethanol and a whole host of other 
things that are happening in my State. So there is tremendous economic 
opportunity for America as we embrace a new energy future for this 
country.

So I believe the forces that drive the new clean energy economy for 
America, again, are national security, environmental security, and 
economic opportunity--very simple, very fundamental principles that 
should guide our actions in the Senate. When we talk to experts who are 
involved in this field, they can get very excited about it because in 
their eyes, what they see is salvation not only for our country but 
also for civilization in terms of how we handle this very important 
signature issue for the 21st century.

I want to spend a few minutes speaking about the Energy bill that we 
crafted in the Energy Committee which was amended with the Finance 
Committee provisions on the floor of the Senate. From my point of view, 
there were five key aspects to that legislation. The first was the 
increase in efficiency standards, the increase in CAFE standards which 
have not been revised now for 30 years in this country. The second was 
a renewable fuels standard that will help us usher in this biofuels 
revolution for our country. The third is dealing with global warming by 
getting an understanding of how we can sequester carbon here within our 
country. The fourth is a renewable electrical standard or a renewable 
portfolio standard across the country. The fifth are the tax provisions 
that essentially function as a jet engine which allow us to move much 
of our policy forward that we articulated in that bill.

I am hopeful that as we move forward we will not lose sight of these 
key measures of the legislation and that we get as close to as much of 
these key components of this legislation enacted into law as we can. I 
know if the discussions that are taking place now between the 
leadership of the House and the Senate are successful, many of these 
aspects of the legislation will, in fact, be addressed so we have the 
60 votes to get a good bill out of the Senate and then get a bill on to 
the President's desk that the President will sign.

I will make just one final comment on one of those five key aspects, 
and that, again, is the renewable fuels standard. The renewable fuels 
standard which we set at 36 billion gallons in that legislation that we 
passed out of this body is a very good piece of legislation. I do not 
believe the Senate should compromise on that renewable fuels standard 
at all. We went through a very thoughtful process to come up with that 
36-billion-gallon standard. We had experts from around the country, 
including from the National Renewable Energy Lab, coming in and talking 
to us about how we could achieve the limitation of corn-based ethanol 
at 15 billion gallons. We also heard from experts who tell us we are 
within a year or two away from being able to open the door to the 
commercialization of cellulosic ethanol.

We made the determination that is where the future of our energy 
independence lies--in the area of biofuels and transportation. So we 
said we can produce in a new RFS 36 billion gallons. That is a 
quintupling of the current renewable fuels standard which we currently 
have in place. That is the correct number because that is what the 
science will support. We know that because 15 billion gallons will come 
from corn, and 21 billion gallons will come from the advanced biofuels 
which we are pushing in that legislation.



So I hope those who are involved in dealing with the renewable fuels 
standard in the legislation which is currently under negotiation 
understand the importance of the RFS and how much work went into coming 
up with that 36-billion-gallon-a-year RFS that came out of the Senate 
Energy Committee which was adopted with a broad bipartisan vote on the 
floor of the Senate.

I believe the people of America would be delighted if we in the 
Senate, working with the House of Representatives, were able to 
complete the legislation on these two very important issues: to 
complete the farm bill and to get it done before Christmas, and to 
complete a good energy bill that will help us move forward toward 
energy independence and address these key, critical policy challenges 
that confront us. It is a signature issue for the 21st century. The 
clean energy economy is something which we must embrace. It is 
something we do in both pieces of legislation that we have talked about 
today, the farm bill, as well as the 2007 Energy bill.

Madam President, I yield the floor, and I note the absence of a 
quorum.