# A TRIBUTE TO LANCE CORPORAL TYLER OWEN GRIFFIN
## `99fbd940d81aa29bade19768f340f07d`
`Mr. COURTNEY â€” 20 April 2010`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in tribute to an American 
patriot and fallen Connecticut son. A native of Voluntown, Lance 
Corporal Tyler Owen Griffin was killed on April 1, 2010 while 
supporting combat operations in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. He was 
19 years old.



Tyler attended Griswold High School where he played on the football 
team. Shortly after graduating with the Class of 2008, he achieved what 
he considered his lifelong goal of becoming a Marine, joining the 
Marine Corps the following August. After completing boot camp, Tyler 
was assigned as a rifleman to 1st Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment, 
Regimental Combat Team 7, Marine Expeditionary Brigade--Afghanistan. In 
March 2010 he deployed to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom.

To appreciate the impact that Tyler had on his community, one only 
had to point to his funeral service in Voluntown. Flags and banners of 
support lined the streets as thousands gathered to pay their final 
respects. All who knew him spoke both of his pride in fulfilling his 
dream of becoming a Marine and of his respect and compassion for 
others. Clearly, Tyler was a young man of exceptional character who 
touched many lives.

I had the honor of meeting Tyler's mother Susan and stepfather John 
last Tuesday and was moved by the courage they showed in the face of 
their tragic loss. His mother emphasized to me that he died doing what 
he always wanted to do, and that they were able to gain some degree of 
comfort from that fact. It is clear to see how such a fine family could 
raise such an honorable son.

In a manner befitting a true American hero, Tyler was laid to rest at 
Arlington National Cemetery yesterday in a moving ceremony attended by 
his family, his friends and his fellow Marines. My wife, Audrey, was 
honored to attend and join in honoring this young man. There, he has 
taken his place alongside so many others who paid the ultimate price 
for the freedom and security we enjoy as United States citizens. Tyler 
was a remarkable young man, eager to accept the noble task of 
protecting his Nation on its frontlines, wherever they may be. While 
his smile may no longer brighten the lives of those around him, the 
memory of his life shall always endure.

Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to join me in honoring Lance 
Corporal Tyler Griffin and his service to our great Nation. Tyler and 
his sacrifice will forever be remembered by me, a mourning Connecticut, 
a grateful Nation, and family members who will never forget him.
