---
---

# None
## `99ff2248d5db783257c68cab39fa7d4b`
`Mr. DREIER — 16 October 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I want to begin by thanking my very good friend, a new 
member of the Rules Committee, the gentleman from Vermont (Mr. Welch) 
for his statement that was very thoughtful. But it actually in many 
ways buttressed the argument that I was making in the Rules Committee 
yesterday, that Chairman Waxman countered, that this resolution is 
little more than an attempt to try and appease this sector of the House 
of Representatives that wants this immediate withdrawal from Iraq, 
represented by more than a couple of my colleagues who are here right 
now.

I rise, Madam Speaker, in strong opposition to both this rule and the 
underlying resolution. Once again the Democratic leadership has shut 
down the normal, open legislative process in order to bring their 
substantively flawed legislation to the floor, and once again they must 
resort to a complete distortion of facts in order to advance their 
agenda.

They have the formula down pretty well, Madam Speaker. First, you 
pick an issue that no one could possibly oppose. In this case they have 
bravely come forward and taken a stance against corruption. Well, it is 
very impressive. Obviously we are all opposed to corruption.

Next, they slap together a resolution that ostensibly advances this 
position, but, in reality, twists the facts such that the issue is 
actually abandoned for purely political potshots; then shut down 
regular order so that no dissenting voice can be heard.

Finally, when all due process and substantive deliberation has been 
thwarted, attack those who expose their sloppy work by calling them 
''pro-corruption,'' or ''anti-poor children,'' or whatever dark and 
sinister trope we are exploiting this week.

This is a well-worn approach that has been, unfortunately, standard 
operating procedure in this 110th Congress. What makes it so troubling 
this time is that it came from a committee whose


chairman and ranking member have generally worked in a bipartisan way, 
despite the Democratic leadership's very heavy-handed approach on so 
many issues.

The ranking member, the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Davis), has been 
very eager to work constructively with, Madam Speaker, our California 
colleague (Mr. Waxman) who chairs the committee. They have worked 
together on a number of issues. And it was the same way when our friend 
from Fairfax, Virginia (Mr. Davis) was the chairman of the then 
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, now the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform, when Mr. Davis was the chairman and 
Mr. Waxman was the ranking member.

Mr. Davis has not shied away from taking a very, very honest and fair 
approach to oversight and speaking very frankly about the problems that 
are exposed. He has always concerned himself only with the facts, not 
the party affiliation of those who have come under scrutiny.

So why is it, Madam Speaker, why is it that the majority did not so 
much as share the text of this resolution with the minority before 
introducing it? Why did it not go through the regular committee process 
to vet the language? What exactly do they fear by allowing just a 
little bit of sunshine in their work?

Madam Speaker, when the Republicans on the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform finally got to have just a little peek at this 
resolution, what they found were half-truths, distortions and blatant 
omissions.

Our friend from Virginia (Mr. Davis) offered a substitute that would 
modify the resolution by adding the critical information that the 
majority had omitted and correcting what was mischaracterized. The 
majority shamelessly but predictably shut out the amendment, in an 
apparent attempt to suppress any effort to expose the glaring flaws to 
their resolution.

Madam Speaker, all we have asked is to have a debate based on facts 
rather than on phony narratives and biased misinformation. I have no 
doubt that their side will continue this charade of a debate and 
pretend that this resolution is simply about exposing corruption and 
those who try to cover it up.

Madam Speaker, they can have their charade, but this side is going to 
actually talk about facts today, something that we are proud to 
regularly do, and, unfortunately, doesn't emerge too often from the 
other side of the aisle.

We will start with the issue of corruption in the Iraqi Government. 
It is a huge problem. It is a huge problem, corruption in the Iraqi 
Government, Madam Speaker. We all recognize that. The Iraqis recognize 
that. Today in The Washington Post a representative from the State 
Department made it very clear that the issue of corruption within the 
Iraqi Government is a serious one. The entire world recognizes the fact 
that there is corruption within the Iraqi Government.

Through a number of U.S. departments and agencies, including the 
State Department, we are funding a wide range of programs to find, root 
out and prevent corruption; to build the capacity of the Iraqi 
Government to fight corruption within its own ranks, which is what our 
goal is, making sure we fight corruption. We want to strengthen the 
democratic institutions that must be strong, transparent and enduring, 
so that the rule of law can prevail, and those who break the law will, 
in fact, be brought to justice.

That is what our goal is, Madam Speaker, and that is something that I 
believe we could address in a bipartisan way if Mr. Waxman and Mr. 
Davis had, in fact, had the chance to come together. Mr. Davis very 
much wanted to, but apparently he was rebuffed.

This is the primary goal of our policy, ensuring that we take on and 
root out and eliminate corruption within the Iraqi Government. And our 
efforts would be highlighted in this resolution, if its authors had not 
systematically struck the positive comments made by the very experts 
quoted in their text.



For example, they quote Judge Radhi Hamza al-Radhi as saying, and I 
quote, Madam Speaker, ''Corruption in Iraq today is rampant and has 
infected virtually every agency and ministry.'' That is what is in the 
resolution, Madam Speaker. They unfortunately in this resolution cut 
out the rest of the quote.

Judge Radhi went on to tell the committee, and I quote, Madam 
Speaker, ''The Iraqi people would hope that you continue your support 
to them, otherwise they will be suppressed by the neighboring 
countries.'' He went on to say, ''I believe if you help the Iraqi 
people to be managed and governed by an honest government, I believe 
that the problem will be over.'' Now that's the full quote from Judge 
Radhi Hamza al-Radhi.

To this key point, the very people that came before the committee to 
testify on Iraq's corruption problem also highlighted our attempts to 
combat it; and they begged us, they begged us, Madam Speaker, not to 
abandon them. A number of other key quotes were cut short in the 
resolution resulting in a skewed view of testimony.

They suppressed testimony from the Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction citing that the Iraq Government fully recognizes its 
corruption problem. They cut out the Comptroller General's testimony 
that this is an internal Iraqi problem which does not involve U.S. 
funds, and that the Iraqis face enormous challenges following decades 
of a dictatorship where, and I quote, ''corruption was woven into the 
very fabric of governing.''

It is all there in black and white in the alternative that Mr. Davis 
presented to us up in the Rules Committee.

Of course, that full litany of the facts will never come to a vote in 
this House because of a decision that the majority leadership has made. 
They would rather cherry-pick quotes and give a distorted account of 
the facts.

Madam Speaker, the resolution's second major premise, which also 
suffers from being disassociated with the facts, is that the State 
Department has tried to cover up Iraqi corruption and has withheld 
pertinent information from Congress. Again, the majority can continue 
their pseudo-debate if they would like; but, Madam Speaker, on this 
side of the aisle, we are just going to stick to the facts. And the 
fact is that a portion of an unfinished, unvetted document was 
inadvertently leaked. When the report was ultimately finalized, 
portions were deemed classified in the interest of protecting sources 
whose lives would be threatened for their anticorruption efforts and to 
protect private conversations stemming from diplomatic efforts.

We can accuse the State Department of sloppiness because of the leak; 
we can play Monday morning quarterback and say that they shouldn't have 
bothered to classify information no matter how sensitive after it was 
inadvertently leaked. But to accuse them of trying to cover up 
information is a blatant mischaracterization of the facts.

Furthermore, Chairman Waxman has declined to release the transcripts 
of interviews with State and Justice Departments officials on the very 
issues raised in this resolution. State has also offered classified 
briefings to answer any and all questions that can't be addressed in an 
open setting. Now, Madam Speaker, according to the State Department, 
Chairman Waxman has declined that offer. It would appear that the 
authors of this resolution may not actually be interested in gathering 
this information.

In fact, it is ironic that a resolution accusing government officials 
of withholding information would cherry-pick quotes from testimony and 
suppress an amendment that tells the whole story. And it is ironic that 
its authors make these accusations while refusing to release the 
transcripts of its own proceedings and deny the opportunity for a full 
classified briefing. If they were truly interested in combating 
corruption or the full disclosure of information, they would have gone 
through regular order that developed legislation within the context of 
a full debate that includes the facts in the situation.

I would ask them to take the issue of corruption more seriously, 
Madam Speaker. This is an issue that has plagued our own government. We 
have wrestled for years over ethics reform, and we still haven't got it 
right. We are trying right now to bring to the floor earmark reform. We 
have a discharge petition in the well and we have encouraged our 
colleagues to sign that to deal with what clearly has been a bipartisan 
issue. It is an issue that has been wrought with corruption in the


past. We are trying very hard to address that. Unfortunately, the 
majority leadership refuses to allow us to bring to the floor earmark 
reform that would simply bring us to the standard that we passed in the 
last Congress.

Now, Madam Speaker, as we look around the world at democracies old 
and new, we see that no one has been able to completely root out the 
problem of corruption. I have the great privilege to work with my 
colleague, David Price, and 18 other of our Members as part of the 
House Democracy Assistance Commission. Our commission works directly 
with legislatures in developing democracies all around the world, and 
corruption tops the list of challenges every single time.

In every one of the 12 member countries that we have within the House 
Democracy Assistance Commission, this problem of corruption comes to 
the forefront. Endemic corruption threatens the very survival of real 
democracy, and that is why we are tackling the problem across the 
globe; and, Madam Speaker, Iraq is no exception.

Unfortunately, rather than furthering our efforts, the Democratic 
majority would rather sit in the cheap seats taking shots at the Iraqi 
Government awash in righteous indignation over trumped-up charges of a 
coverup. I would call on them instead to offer a meaningful bill that 
addresses the very serious issue of corruption and take it up under 
regular order. I would call on them, Madam Speaker, to allow their work 
to stand before the rigors of scrutiny and deliberation.

Madam Speaker, I am quite confident that we could all come together 
to work on a universally supported issue of combating corruption. As I 
said, we have these great models of Henry Waxman and Tom Davis who 
traditionally in a bipartisan way have worked together. I believe we 
could do that again. But, unfortunately, Mr. Davis was completely 
rebuffed when this resolution was introduced, as our colleague from 
Pasco, Washington (Mr. Hastings) said, in the Rules Committee last 
night, was introduced last Friday with no markup whatsoever, and then 
we brought it up last night in the Rules Committee.

Let's work to have a constructive, meaningful debate on this issue 
based on facts that actually attempt to do something grander than the 
political posturing that we are seeing with this resolution.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.