---
---

# IRAQ AND RELATED ISSUES
## `9a02b5cc814919f93d548c74ec6ea27a`
`Mr. KYL — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I join my colleague, the Senator from Texas, 
in urging the Senate to think very carefully about passing what appears 
to be a nonbinding resolution, but what, in fact, has dramatic 
consequences.

It is true that a nonbinding resolution would not change the policy 
of the President; he is the Commander in Chief. He has decided on a new 
strategy after consultation with a lot of people, and that new strategy 
is now being implemented in Iraq as we speak.

The Senate, last Friday, confirmed GEN David Petraeus to carry out 
that policy. By the way, it seems quite incongruous we would, on the 
one hand, confirm General Petraeus, pat him on the back, and say: Go do 
the mission in Iraq--by the way, we disagree with the mission. That is 
one of the bad messages that is sent.

I would like to talk a little bit more about the sending of messages 
with the nonbinding resolutions. That is obviously what the proponents 
of the resolutions would like to do. They have talked about sending a 
message. Mostly they are trying to send a message to the President. Of 
course, any Senator who wants to talk to the President has that 
capability. We do not need to send messages to the President publicly 
in areas that cause harm. We should think about the consequences of 
such a message to our enemies, to our allies, and most especially to 
the troops that we send in harm's way.

Think for a moment about the consequences of a message that says that 
we disagree with the President's strategy, we disagree with the 
mission, and we don't believe that any more troops should be involved 
or that the United States should remain in Iraq beyond a very limited 
period of time. The message that sends to our enemies is a devastating 
one.

As General Petraeus testified before the Senate Committee on Armed 
Services, war is about breaking the will of your opponent. He feared 
the consequences of such a resolution which he said would not be 
helpful because it would send a signal to our enemies that we don't 
have the support in the United States Government necessary to break the 
will of the opponent.

These terrorists well understand this is a contest of wills. Can they 
outlast us? Osama bin Laden thinks we are the ''weak horse,'' as he 
puts it, and he is the ''strong horse''; that we left Vietnam, that we 
left Lebanon, that we left Somalia, and we will leave Iraq before the 
job is done as well. And he believes that. So there is a test of wills 
going on. And if the enemies come to believe they can outlast us, that 
their will is stronger than ours, then it is very difficult to defeat 
them in this war against terrorism.

The message it sends to our allies is we are not necessarily a 
reliable ally. Certainly, to people in the neighborhood--the people in 
Afghanistan, in Pakistan, and elsewhere--you can imagine they would 
quickly begin to hedge their bets because of the neighborhood in which 
they live. If we are going to leave, and they have to continue to live 
with these bad actors, then, as before September 11, you will see them 
begin to hedge their bets and provide support for, in one way or 
another, terrorists who live in that neighborhood. That is against the 
national security interest of the United States.

The message that is sent to our troops is perhaps the most 
devastating because it says: We have sent you on a mission, and yet we 
do not believe in the mission. We are putting you in harm's way. You 
may, in fact, die trying to complete your mission, but it is not a 
mission that we believe in.

Think about the message that sends to the troops and to the families.

Very interestingly, last Friday, ''NBC Nightly News'' had an 
interview with three soldiers from Iraq talking about this very point. 
It was in the Brian Williams newscast. He called on Richard Engel, 
reporting from Baghdad, who had interviewed these three soldiers. I 
think what they had to say should instruct us. He talked about the new 
mission they were on, and he said:




 It's not just the new mission the soldiers are adjusting 


 to. They have something else on their minds:


This is David Engel, the reporter, speaking--



 the growing debate at home about the war. Troops here say 


 they are increasingly frustrated by American criticism of the 


 war. Many take it personally, believing it is also criticism 


 of what they've been fighting for. Twenty-one-year-old 


 Specialist Tyler Johnson is on his first tour in Iraq. He 


 thinks skeptics should come over and see what it's like 


 firsthand before criticizing.


Then, this is what SPC Tyler Johnson said:




 Those people are dying. You know what I'm saying? You may 


 support--''Oh, we support the troops,'' but you're not 


 supporting what they do, what they share and sweat for, what 


 they believe for, what we die for. It just don't make sense 


 to me.





Engel then said:




 Staff Sergeant Manuel Sahagun has served in Afghanistan and 


 is now in his second tour in Iraq. He says people back home 


 can't have it both ways.


Then SSG Manuel Sahagun said:




 One thing I don't like is when people back home say they 


 support the troops but they don't support the war. If they're 


 going to support us, support us all the way.


Finally, Engel said:




 Specialist Peter Manna thinks people have forgotten the 


 toll the war has taken.


SPC Peter Manna said:




 If they don't think we're doing a good job, everything that 


 we've done here is all in vain.


Engel closed his report saying:




 Apache Company has lost two soldiers and now worries their 


 country may be abandoning the mission they died for.


That is the message we send to our troops: that they may be dying in 
vain, that they may be putting their life on the line in vain because 
we do not support the mission we put them in harm's way to accomplish. 
That is a devastating blow to morale.

Just imagine what you would do if you were the parent or the spouse 
of one of those soldiers who got killed and came to believe the mission 
we had sent them on was no longer a mission that we supported, and yet 
we continue to keep them in harm's way.

My view is, if you think this war is lost or that we cannot win it, 
that you have the courage of your convictions and vote to cut off the 
funds and bring the folks home right now before any more die. But if 
you believe, as the President does, that we must not leave Iraq a 
failed state, that there is still an opportunity there to succeed, and 
that his plan deserves a chance to succeed, then we should not support 
resolutions that send a different message.

That is why I want to urge my colleagues to think very carefully 
before supporting any of these resolutions which may be nonbinding on 
the President but, nevertheless, have severe consequences to our 
enemies, to our allies, and to the troops we put into harm's way. This 
is serious business we are about. We need to consider it seriously and 
not undercut the troops we put in harm's way.
