# WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007
## `9a0419823ab0ebff3832264b9f1e663a`
`Mr. REID â€” 14 May 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I appreciate the manager of the bill, the 
chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, the 
distinguished Senator from California, allowing me to obtain the floor.

We all know 2 weeks ago President Bush vetoed the supplemental 
appropriations bill, a bill to fully fund the troops in Iraq and change 
the course of


that conflict in Iraq. Late last week, the House sent a new bill to the 
Senate. We received that within the past hour. The ball is now in our 
court, the Senate's court. Democrats and Republicans agree the Senate 
needs to get a bill in conference as soon as possible and we need to 
work together to make that happen.

I have had a number of conversations with Senator McConnell the last 
several days. I spoke to him earlier today at some length. As much as 
we all recognize how badly we need to get a bill to conference, we have 
not, on this side of the aisle, lost sight of the fact that the 
American people have concluded the President's Iraq policy has failed 
and we are now demanding a new way forward on behalf of the American 
people.

In an effort to ensure quick Senate passage of our conference vehicle 
later this week, as well as to give Senators an opportunity to express 
their views on the President's Iraq policy, I will offer two important 
amendments. The first amendment is Feingold-Reid, to safely redeploy 
United States troops from Iraq by March 31 of next year, and transition 
the mission to fighting al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations, 
providing security for United States infrastructure and personnel, and 
training Iraqi forces.

Of course, after the 1st of April of next year, our troops will be in 
Iraq for counterterrorism, force protection--that is to protect 
American assets in Iraq--and to help train the Iraqis.

I will also offer a Levin-Reid amendment which is consistent with the 
bipartisan legislation approved by Congress with one change: It permits 
the President to waive the timeline for redeployments. It has in it 
some things some Members want very badly, including the Presiding 
Officer, to deal with how our troops are taken care of, how often they 
have to go back to battle, how much time they have to have before being 
returned to the battlefield after having been deployed. We will have 
votes on these two amendments at the earliest possible date. I will 
work with the distinguished Republican leader to see when that will 
happen. These votes represent an opportunity for the Senate to shape 
the important conference we hope will begin this week upon passage of 
the Senate version of the supplemental.

There is probably no end of amendments that could be offered, as I 
have here today, but on our side of the aisle, Democrats believe we 
should do something very close to what was done in the bill we sent to 
the President which he vetoed.

Basically that is what we have here--except getting the President the 
ability to waive the timelines we have in the legislation.

Finally, there are those on this side who believe there should be 
some end in sight. That is why I indicated that as of April 1 of next 
year, the funding would still go on but it would be limited to the 
counterterrorism, force protection, and training Iraqis.

It is very important to understand that transitioning this mission to 
fighting al-Qaida is a part of the recognition of what we and the 
American people believe is important. At present, as you know, American 
troops are over there protecting the Shias, protecting the Sunnis, 
protecting the Kurds, and at all times all these different elements are 
shooting at the Americans. We should limit our focus to al-Qaida.

Mr. President, I call up the Levin-Reid amendment first.

That is No. 1097.