---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING THE  TERRORIST ATTACKS LAUNCHED AGAINST THE UNITED STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11,
## `9a254130ab8a077ac39d73ff1556ec49`
`Mr. WOLF — 11 September 2008`

---


Mr. WOLF. Madam Speaker, I rise today to join my House colleagues in 
support of this resolution recognizing September 11 as a day of 
remembrance; extending sympathies to those who lost their lives on 
September 11, 2001, and their families; honoring the heroic actions of 
our Nation's first responders and armed forces, and reaffirming the 
commitment to defending the people of the United States against any and 
all future challenges.

We all will always remember where we were on that fateful morning of 
September 11, 2001, a beautiful, sunny and clear early autumn day in 
the Nation's capital when terrorists launched their attacks on America. 
It is etched forever in our memories.

We will never forget--those who died; those who survived and live 
with the scars; the firemen who ran up the stairs of the World Trade 
Center to save lives and gave theirs; the heroes on the plane in 
Pennsylvania; the families left behind whose lives will always have a 
void; the neighbors, the friends, the countless strangers who performed 
selfless acts of kindness we will never even know about.

On this solemn anniversary I always think back to the sermon the 
pastor of my church gave the Sunday after September 11 when he said: 
''Life is fragile. Evil is real. God is sure.''

Life is fragile. It can end in an instant. The families of those who 
died in the attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and in a 
field in Pennsylvania never thought that would be their last day to see 
their loved ones.

A woman in New York said, ''We parted with a kiss on the Union Square 
Subway platform at around half past eight that morning. Jason was 
heading to his new job at Cantor Fitzgerald in the World Trade Center; 
I was heading to my office in SoHo. He must have made it to his desk 
moments before the plane struck the building.''

Evil is real. We saw on September 11 that evil men did evil deeds to 
innocent people. Thirty people from Virginia's 10th congressional 
district died on 9/11. I went to the Pentagon that day and saw with my 
own eyes the destruction. I returned to the Pentagon this morning to 
join the dedication of the beautiful and moving memorial to hose who 
died there seven years ago.

I went to Ground Zero in New York City two months after 9/11 and saw 
the devastation. I saw the notes written on the wooden railing of the 
viewing platform from family members. One said, ''I love you Daddy'' in 
a childish scrawl. Another said, ''We miss you Dad. When you look down 
we hope we will always make you proud.''

Evil is real, but God is sure. Psalm 46 says:

''God is our refuge and strength, an ever-present help in trouble. 
Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way, and the 
mountains fall into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and 
foam and the mountains quake with their surging. Nations are in uproar, 
kingdoms fall; he lifts his voice, the earth melts. The Lord Almighty 
is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress.''

Our lives changed on September 11, and in many ways are still 
changing and will continue to change. Clearly, we are much more aware 
of the threat we now face.

We had heroes on 9/11--those who lost their lives and those who tried 
to save them--and we continue to have heroes today. They are the brave 
men and women who are fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq showing the 
terrorists that we will take the fight to them. They are the thousands 
of civilian employees at numerous Federal agencies supporting those 
efforts.

Some of those heroes, like those on 9/11, have given their lives to 
protect our way of life. To them and to their families, we will be 
forever grateful.

I am reminded of a quote from President Ronald Reagan, who was such 
an optimist. He believed in America and for what she stands. He once 
said in describing America, ''We will always remember. We will always 
be proud. We will always be prepared, so we can always be free.''

Indeed, we will always remember. And we will always be grateful that 
we live in the United States of America where, it has been said, unlike 
almost any other nation on earth, our identity is rooted not in blood, 
religion or birthplace, but in the idea of freedom.

Freedom has never been with a price. We owe our lives to each and 
everyone who has paid that ultimate price so that we can continue to 
live in freedom. And so today, we remember 9/11 and those souls who 
perished, and we also honor those who responded to the horrific events 
of that day, and resolve to continue the fight against terrorism and 
those who would seek to destroy freedom.