---
---

# None
## `9a25ca522204a19405cf48cb082c9593`
`Mr. GINGREY — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I thank my colleague from Louisiana, my fellow 
physician, for yielding. It's great to be here with two fine Texans, my 
classmate Judge Carter and also Mr. Conaway, and talk about this 
important issue, because this is a very important week.

Representative Conaway and I both serve on the House Armed Services 
Committee, and my colleagues, Madam Speaker, as you, of course, know, 
you are a member of the committee as well, that we heard from General 
Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker here on the House side. The Foreign 
Affairs Committee did as well yesterday, the same thing on the Senate 
side.

It was also just unbelievable the negative approach and attitude that 
so many members of our committee, this body, the other body, the 
majority party, had toward them in September, saying, you know, this 
surge is too little too late, the war is lost, it's a hopeless cause, 
there's nothing that you can do militarily, and, besides, there are all 
these benchmarks that the Iraqi Government has not met, and it's a 
failed state, we need to bring the troops home.

Well, thank God we did not bring the troops home at that time. Here 
we are, 10 months later, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker 
returned and reported to the Congress. Almost every, indeed, every 
measure, every metric that you look at, they presented to us in chart 
form. Dr. Boustany has one of those charts with him tonight in regard 
to the decrease in civilian deaths. He may want to talk about that 
later, but there is no question that in regard to security, tremendous, 
tremendous progress has been made. We are getting on top of this thing, 
and General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker both said that.

There were questions from Members, particularly on the Democratic 
side of the aisle, on the House Armed Services Committee, to suggest 
that while there was progress made militarily, there was none, no 
progress made politically.

These points were addressed, these questions to Ambassador Crocker, 
about, well, how about all these benchmarks that we asked for back in 
September?



Well, you know, the fact is the political surge, my colleagues, has 
been just about as successful as the military surge, and the progress 
that we have made, and Congressman Conaway talked about that just a 
little bit earlier in regard to de-Ba'athification, and he explained 
what is meant by that, and I know my colleagues understand that, to 
bring these people back in, the Sunnis that didn't have jobs, they had 
no way of surviving other than maybe getting paid to do bad things to 
our troops and to their Shia countrymen.

It was important that the Iraqi Government do that. The Iraqi 
Government scheduled provincial elections, which are now scheduled for 
October of this year, that the Iraqi Government do something in regard 
to oil sharing to actually have legislation in place that spells out 
that just because the oil in the country of Iraq happens to be located 
in maybe a Shia area or a Kurdish area, that the Sunnis still, as 
fellow Iraqis, should have a share in that revenue.

Well, de facto, they are doing that. Ambassador Crocker basically 
told us that of the 18 benchmarks, 12 of them have now been met, and 
that of the additional 6, there is significant progress on 4.

Anyone that suggests that there is not progress made politically just 
has to have a willing suspension of disbelief, as someone in the other 
body quoted, I think, last year and actually said that, too. I wonder 
what she would say today, based on these statistics, to ignore these 
metrics, would require the willing suspension of brain power. It is 
clear as the nose on your face, but yet certain people refuse to 
believe it.

What distresses me too now is those Members who want us to come home 
are using a different argument. They are saying not only that we've 
spent too much money but also making this statement, and if my 
colleague will bear with me for a couple of more minutes, they are 
making the statement that our troops are tired, they have been there 
too long, the equipment is wearing out and that, God forbid, there may 
be another conflict that's just going to break out somewhere in the 
world, which does occur, I guess, on average, maybe every 5 years.

They are saying that for that reason, totally ignoring what success 
we have achieved on the ground, that we really have victory almost in 
the palm of our hands. It's not there yet, it's fragile. We all admit 
that. But let's bring them home and prepare them for the next conflict.

Well, my colleagues, they may be, these troops that Judge Carter, Mr. 
Conaway and Dr. Boustany talked about, these personal anecdotes that 
they gave tonight, in talking about the enthusiasm, the morale and the 
patriotism of these troops, if you bring them back home when they are 
just on the cusp of victory, having left, then, 4,000 of their 
colleagues dead, men and women, and probably 25,000 severely wounded, 
they come home without a victory, like Judge Carter says, with a white 
flag rather than Old Glory, I don't care how much you rest them, I 
don't care how much you re-equip them, I don't care how much you give 
them, more manpower or reset them, when you send them to this next 
contingency, I am going to ask them how hard they are going to fight. 
What's their morale going to be like then?

I think that's what this is all about. I think that's what the 
American people need to understand and that's what our colleagues in 
this body need to understand.

We cannot let public opinion polls and political pressure, because of 
an upcoming election, drive the decisions that are so important to the 
safety and security and the well-being of this country. I think it's 
clear, it was very clear to me. I had this very question written out 
that I wanted to ask General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker.

Unfortunately, as my colleagues know, if you are down on the lower 
row, Madam Speaker knows that, a lot of times they don't get to you 
before the clock runs out. I did submit this for the Record. I would 
like to know the answer to that question, I think the answer will be 
just as exactly as I expect. We can't worry about the next battle, we 
have got to win this one first.

I wanted to make those points to my colleagues. At this point I will 
yield back to the gentleman from Louisiana.