# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `9a2ac9175c0dc0add029b1c20a280357`
`Ms. BEAN — 22 January 2007`

---


Ms. BEAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding to me. It 
is always a pleasure to join my Blue Dog colleagues on the House floor.

The Blue Dogs were formed with the intention of always demanding 
accountability and oversight, particularly relative to our national 
budget. We are out here pretty regularly talking about the $8 trillion 
national debt. You have the number right next to you, Mr. Ross. That 
has really ballooned out of control.

We talk about PAYGO budget rules, which we were glad to lead our 
caucus into passing through the House so we can start to bring some 
fiscal sense back to this Congress in the same way that our taxpayers 
and constituents have to bring to their home budgets and their business 
budgets. They deserve the same level of accountability with their tax 
dollars and the way we spend them here.

That applies to the entire budget. There is no more important 
priority than ensuring the safety of our troops and our Nation. So it 
is almost incomprehensible that billions of dollars of the roughly $400 
billion that has been spent on the war in Iraq goes unaccounted for.

Congressman Murphy just spoke to that. He talked about it is not just 
dollars unaccounted for, but weapons as well. So there is a serious 
safety issue for our troops. Therefore, I was proud to join my Blue Dog 
colleagues as a cosponsor of this Iraq war cost accountability 
resolution that I believe we are introducing on the floor tomorrow.

Before I talk about the resolution itself, I just wanted to mention 
another one of our colleagues who is not with us today, Congresswoman 
Jane Harman, who recently had an op-ed piece that she entitled ''Stop 
Conducting the War Off the Books.'' She talked about how the emergency 
supplemental that the President has said he will be bringing to this 
Congress will be the sixth emergency supplemental for this war. She 
also talks about how our own last year's budget resolution defined 
''emergency'' as only spending that is ''sudden, unforeseen or 
temporary.'' While certainly supporting our troops is urgent and 
important, it is not sudden, when we are almost 4 years and $400 
billion into this war.

I think she makes a good case that we all support, who are on this 
resolution, getting these requests into the budget, and that one of the 
reasons they have been called emergencies when they haven't been 
unforeseen or sudden is that doing so exempts the President from 
spending caps and from counting the hundreds of billions of dollars 
that have been spent on the war in Iraq in our deficit.

What that really is, it is dishonest accounting. We are not asking 
all Americans to join Congress in making the hard decisions about what 
the cost of this war should mean relative to a shared sacrifice. So by 
doing it off the books, we are not engaging in the dialogue we really 
should be having.

This resolution that we are introducing tomorrow will require four 
things: first, accountability and oversight, not only for our own 
spending, but also what we are doing to urge other countries and allies 
to participate and what their spending would be. It will talk about 
dollars already spent and how they have been spent and whether we have 
accomplished what we set out to do. Also important is it will include 
sanctions for contractors that have engaged in fraud, abuse or war 
profiteering.

The second thing it will do, as Congressman Murphy alluded to, is 
create committees akin to the Truman Committee that will, again, look 
at all contracts awarded and also the method of how those contracts are 
awarded to ensure we are getting the best return on our tax dollars.

Third, it will require, as I just alluded to, the on-budget 
accounting of the war. No more emergency supplementals. But it will 
require that the war in Iraq, starting in fiscal 2008 and beyond, any 
requests for funding must come through the regular appropriations 
process, with the oversight and accountability that goes along with 
that.

The fourth thing that this resolution does is it states how important 
it is for Iraq to be moving forward in assuming the principal 
responsibility for their own internal security. It will require that 
the administration should condition further American financial or 
military support upon steady improvement in Iraqi progress toward that 
end.

I am very proud to join my colleagues on this resolution. I think the 
American public should expect no less from this Congress. I am hopeful 
that we are going to have bipartisan support on this resolution, as we 
have on some of the things we have been introducing in the first 100 
hours in our new majority.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for letting me join him.