---
---

# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `9a3319f30c189e935726f3365ed5ae57`
`Mr. LEAHY — 21 May 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, as the Senate prepares to vote on the 
majority leader's motion to proceed to a comprehensive immigration 
reform bill, I continue to have concerns about the proposal announced 
last week. But I wish to commend Senator Kennedy for working so hard 
over the last several months to revive a bipartisan bill. He worked 
closely behind the scenes with Senator McCain for several months. When 
those efforts failed, he didn't give up. In fact, he was not deterred, 
as many who supported this process before went the other way. On the 
contrary, he spoke to a number of Republican Senators who had actively 
worked with us last year. When they wouldn't join him in a bipartisan 
effort, he continued on and joined the process Secretary Chertoff had 
begun with opponents of last year's bill. In extended discussions he 
and others have had, they have now come forward with a proposal. I 
commend Senator Kennedy's commitment and his efforts.

I would also like to thank the majority leader. He had intended to 
set aside 2 full weeks this month for Senate consideration of 
comprehensive immigration reform. When the informal discussions were 
not completed on time, he gave those discussions more time. He was 
right that this issue warrants a significant commitment of the Senate's 
time, and I am glad to work with him to make sure that consideration is 
fair and comprehensive.

Now, I am going to support the motion to proceed and the majority 
leader's cloture petition to go to the bill in order to allow the 
Senate the opportunity to work its will on the matter. Obviously, that 
doesn't presuppose how I will vote on the final product. Many of us 
have said that the bipartisan proposal, the Kennedy-Kyl-Chertoff 
proposal, represents a starting point for consideration.

As the authors of the proposal know, this Senator from Vermont feels 
very strongly about the provisions that affect dairy workers and the 
circumstances of that important industry. But I also take a particular 
interest in the provisions that affect seasonal workers for the 
hundreds of Vermont businesses that require them, as well as the needs 
of our leading high-technology companies, many of which have 
significant operations in Vermont. The diverse coalition that put the 
AgJOBS bill together recognized that certain sectors of agriculture 
require special circumstances.

It is really a shame that the AgJOBS legislation which Republicans 
and Democrats worked so hard to produce and which had gotten strong 
bipartisan agreement will not be fully respected. I believe that is a 
significant mistake and one I will consider in my final determination 
of how to vote. Notwithstanding that mistake, I will continue to work 
with the bill's authors to make sure our Nation's dairy farmers have a 
viable temporary worker program for the future.

Beyond these provisions, I have a number of fundamental concerns I 
hope the Senate will address in the days and perhaps weeks ahead. In 
his radio address of May 12, President Bush restated that comprehensive 
reform must ''treat people with dignity.'' He said we must ''honor the 
great American tradition of the melting pot'' and that we must help 
immigrants ''embrace our common identity as Americans.'' I agree with 
President Bush. I believe part of that common heritage is our welcoming 
of immigrants and families.

America is a land in which families matter, in which our values call 
for us to provide not just for ourselves at the cost of severing family 
ties but for our families. As the Statue of Liberty proclaims, America 
is a country that welcomes the poor and those yearning to breathe free, 
not just the well-educated and those who already speak English. It 
welcomed my grandparents who did not speak English and were not 
wealthy. We never know who among those immigrating to our shores will 
turn out to be the next great military leader, the next great 
entrepreneur, the next great inventor, the next to lift this Nation to 
greater heights.

I want the bill we pass to recognize the best of America and our 
values and the best of our traditions as a land of immigrants, the land 
that brought my grandparents and my parents-in-law to this country. I 
also want it to be practical and workable.

The so-called triggers in the White House proposal do two things. 
First, they appear to put off implementation of most immigration reform 
to the next President and the next Congress. Somehow, I don't 
understand that, why we can't face up to it ourselves. Second, they 
require absolute faith in the Department of Homeland Security and the 
Bush administration. Given the record of this administration, I see 
little basis for such faith.

When this administration's representatives say to us that in the next 
18 months they will secure the borders and they will devise and 
implement identification verification measures and they will do that 
without fail, I remember the last 24 months in which they failed the 
victims of Hurricane Katrina and the Gulf States. I see an 
administration that has ignored immigration enforcement for years. I 
see an administration that does not deal realistically with the 
northern border. I see an administration that has all but destroyed the 
Justice Department and severely undermined its traditions as a neutral 
law enforcement agency above politics. I see an administration that 
denied global warming, disregarded science and, most egregiously, has 
disregarded the realities of its current disastrous engagement in Iraq.

I say this because we are called upon to just put total faith in the 
administration. Some of us believe very much in the slogan President 
Reagan made up for the Russians when he said, ''Trust, but verify.'' In 
that regard, I am a Reaganite.

I have urged the President to invest himself in the process and work 
with Congress. I did so on the first day of this Congress and at the 
one Senate hearing held on this matter in February. The path chosen by 
the administration was not one I recommended. Instead, the 
administration remained on the far right of the immigration debate and 
has pushed the bill and the debate in that direction.



We have before us a measure that is the product of closed-door 
meetings between the administration and Republican Senators, which was 
then put to Democratic Senators as the framework from which any further 
negotiations could proceed. Senator Kennedy has done his best. He has 
made improvements in the proposal. He deserves our thanks. But whether 
the proposal is where it should be is what this debate will begin to 
determine.

The substitute bill the administration endorses creates a temporary 
worker program with no opportunity to pursue the American dream. This 
bill risks the creation of a permanent, revolving underclass of workers 
with limited rights. A temporary worker program with no opportunity to 
share in the promise of America creates an incentive for overstays and 
risks creating a new population of undocumented individuals, just as we 
work hard to bring millions of people out of the shadows of our 
society. I also worry that the temporary worker program included in the 
bill doesn't effectively serve the needs of American employers. I am 
worried that it is unrealistic. This part of the proposal is opposed by 
a wide array of interests and constituencies, including organized 
labor, business, and advocates for immigrants. I hope we listen 
carefully to their concerns as we proceed.

The substitute bill also erodes our traditional commitment to family 
unity by removing whole segments of family-based immigration. No longer 
will certain family members be allowed to be sponsored by their loved 
ones in the United States. Instead, proponents seek to create a 
supposedly merit-based green card system subject to a point system, 
where family ties are de-emphasized, and immediate contributions 
through education and job skills already attained are valued. I 
recognize that we may benefit in the short run from a more highly-
skilled foreign labor pool, but I have grave concerns about doing so at 
the expense of our traditional commitment to family unity and fostering 
strong families. Where are the family values here?

The substitute bill also will require all Americans--not just foreign 
workers--to verify their citizenship before obtaining a job. Like the 
REAL ID Act that was forced on the American people outside the normal 
legislative process, this requirement is yet another example of the 
Administration's consistent denigration of Americans' rights, including 
the right to privacy. The Administration is telling all Americans that 
we can no longer trust you--that Big Brother will control hiring for 
all jobs in America. From America's country stores to our largest 
corporations, employers will now be de facto immigration officials, and 
potential employees will be presumed illegal until they prove 
themselves citizens. I hope we can reconsider this ill-conceived 
program, which cuts so hard against the presumptive decency and honesty 
of American citizens. America's democracy works because law-abiding 
Americans choose to comply with our laws, pay their taxes, and 
participate in our civil society.

I am pleased that significant parts of AGJOBS have been included in 
this bill. The legalization provisions for currently undocumented farm 
workers will go a long way toward helping farmers and removing the 
cloud of fear from so many workers. I commend Senator Feinstein and 
Senator Craig for their work in this regard. But the bill also rejects 
parts of the monumental compromise reached between farm workers and 
agricultural employers in the AGJOBS bill, which provides much needed 
reforms for America's farmers, dairy operators, and farm workers. I am 
extremely disappointed that American dairy farmers who want to hire 
future legal foreign workers end up losing out to the talking point 
that ''temporary means temporary.''

The bill also neglects the real needs of the high-tech community, 
which has been vigilant in seeking reliable sources of high-skilled 
workers. Instead of adding sufficient H-1B visa numbers to allow 
companies to stay competitive and remain the world's leaders, the bill 
creates a green card system that doesn't truly address the technology 
industry's needs and removes hiring decisions from the company and 
places them with the Federal Government. It says: Trust us; we are from 
the Federal Government; we can make a better decision for you. Some of 
us are skeptical.

But there are some good aspects of the bill. It incorporates the 
DREAM Act, a bill I have long supported. It has provisions that can 
move millions of undocumented people in this country on a path to 
citizenship, if not unrealistically delayed by the so-called triggers.

Regrettably, it currently includes a provision to require immigrants 
to return to their home country before applying. In my view, that is 
unrealistic in many circumstances, and it is inflexibly harsh in 
others. Those who struggled to get here--who escaped oppressive and 
dysfunctional governments--should not be required to repeat that 
journey to share in the promise of America. This provision is driven by 
ideology, not by an American sense of fairness, and it should be 
revisited in our legislative process.

I am also encouraged that we may be past the anti-immigrant 
opposition that stalled our efforts last year. I hope that we are past 
trying to make criminals out of undocumented immigrants. I hope that we 
are past trying to make criminals out of the clergy and advocates that 
try to help hard-working immigrants seeking a better life for their 
children. I hope we are past trying to build fences and walls around 
America and the American dream. I hope that we are past the anti-
immigrant rhetoric and the anti-Hispanic slurs that accompanied the 
debate and electioneering last year.

We need to keep working to make sure our legislation is one that 
takes a commonsense, realistic approach to this situation. I will 
continue working to produce legislation that treats people with dignity 
and respects our great traditions as a welcoming nation. We have much 
work to do before this bill becomes worthy of the Senate and of our 
great history and tradition as a nation of immigrants, a nation that 
brought my grandparents and my great-great-grandparents and my parents-
in-law to this country.

I will vote to support the Majority Leader's effort to proceed to 
debate on comprehensive immigration reform. I hope that as we move 
through amendments and debate, the Senate will work toward making this 
a better bill. We all know that had we insisted on taking up the 
Senate-passed bill of last year, we would not have the votes to 
proceed. Many who voted for last year's Senate's bill were prepared to 
abandon their support. The Majority Leader has demonstrated his good 
faith. I hope that Senators will join together and work together to 
produce a bill of which we can be proud and that will honor our parents 
and grandparents as well as our neighbors and grandchildren.

Madam President, I yield the floor.