---
---

# ENHANCING SMALL BUSINESS RESEARCH AND INNOVATION ACT OF 2009
## `9a39569a59bea146403b4bd3190fc721`
`Mr. REICHERT — 8 July 2009`

---


Mr. REICHERT. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to offer this commonsense, 
bipartisan amendment with my colleague from Washington (Mr. Smith).

Our amendment directs the Small Business Administration to prioritize 
giving grants used for outreach to disadvantaged small businesses to be 
given to similar organizations that can empathize and understand them.

Outreach to underserved areas and disadvantaged small businesses is 
essential. I have found, in my district and in my State, that many 
small businesses are completely unaware of the resources available to 
them and often incur unnecessary costs trying to navigate a complex 
government system just to apply for assistance.

Outreach and assistance can mean so much more when someone who 
overcame that same difficulty has an understanding of the needs of 
these disadvantaged small businesses and reaches out to them with a 
helping hand. For example, a wounded warrior may come home and start up 
a new business and go through all the processes, and I've heard many a 
frustrating story from those men and women who return home trying to 
get their lives back on track as they come back from serving our 
country. They really have a grasp as to what's been happening and how 
they achieved their goals, and so the intent of this legislation is so 
those people--wounded warriors, women, and those who represent 
minority-owned businesses--can reach out to those people and help them 
build their own business, create job opportunities for their families, 
and also create job opportunities for families across this country.

We all know that small businesses really generate the jobs in this 
country. Ninety-four percent of the jobs in Washington State are 
provided by small businesses, so this piece of legislation, Mr. 
Chairman, is absolutely essential.

I have a young wounded warrior working in my office who did two tours 
in Iraq and one in Afghanistan who fully understands what it's like to 
come back home and go through the process of receiving health care and 
finding a job here when he returned to his home. Zach is there to help 
those wounded warriors as they call in to the office, and he can help 
them because he understands because he has been there, done that.

I would encourage my colleagues to support this commonsense, 
bipartisan amendment to help those people that we all respect and 
admire so greatly to find jobs and create businesses in their own 
communities.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.