---
---

# None
## `9a3f3fc8f1c1395c900be1555ca89f6c`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, this legislation, which was 
approved by the Armed Services Committee by a unanimous vote of 61-0, 
as my friend from Florida mentioned, would make a number of very 
positive improvements to our armed services, and I think this entire 
House should be particularly proud of the committee's bipartisan 
efforts to improve the quality of life and safety of those serving our 
country in the armed services and their families.

This legislation would authorize $600 billion in spending for our 
Nation's Armed Forces, including $530 billion in spending for defense 
programs at the Pentagon and Energy Departments and $70 billion to 
bolster the success of ongoing military operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan for part of 2009.

It would authorize $783 million for continued procurement and 
enhancement of current body armor systems; $1 billion for the training 
and support of the Iraqi security forces; and nearly $2 billion for 
unfunded readiness initiatives as requested by the services.

It increases Active Duty Army personnel, Mr. Speaker, by 7,000 and 
Active Duty Marine Corps personnel by 5,000, while also providing our 
uniformed servicemembers with a much-deserved pay raise of 3.9 percent.

And for our active duty troops and veterans who have already done so 
much to serve our country, it prohibits increased copayments and 
premiums for TRICARE recipients, and expands suicide prevention 
efforts.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, this legislation also requires the Secretary of 
Defense to provide an annual report on Iran's nuclear capabilities so 
that this Congress can take a proactive role on recognizing the 
potential of this threat and be made aware of the threat that these 
capabilities pose to America and our allies.

While this legislation does a great deal to improve our armed 
services and to provide them with the resources that they need--and it 
accomplishes much of this in a cooperative, bipartisan fashion--there 
are a few areas that I think could still be greatly improved.

While the Rules Committee has not yet reported out a rule governing 
amendment debate on this legislation--we will do that this afternoon--I 
want to take this opportunity to make clear that there are a number of 
areas that I and a number of my Republican colleagues believe can be 
used to improve this bill through the amendment process.

First, it is my hope that the amendment process for this year's 
authorization bill, while it will be a structured rule, will still be 
as open as it has been under Republican majority, when between 30 and 
40 amendments were regularly allowed to be debated and decided by the 
entire House of Representatives.

Of particular concern is the reduction in funds and focus that the 
Armed Services Committee chose to provide in this bill for protecting 
America from the threat posed by ballistic missiles.

In the Armed Services Committee, my colleague Terry Everett from 
Alabama offered amendments to both authorize the President's request 
fully for missile defense and allow procurement to go forward and to 
restore half of the $10 million that the committee eliminated from the 
request for the study of a space test bed.

Congressman Trent Franks of Arizona, a fellow cochairman of the 
Missile Defense Caucus, offered his own amendment to add $100 million 
to a program to launch multiple interceptor missiles at once to defeat 
multiple incoming missiles or decoys in the event of an attack.

While these amendments, Mr. Speaker, were defeated in committee, I 
believe that the entire House should have the opportunity to hear their 
arguments and make their own decisions on these issues, as well as the 
amendment by my Rules Committee colleague, Mr. Sessions of Texas, to 
state the sense of Congress that we need to support the development, 
testing, and fielding of the capability to intercept ballistic missiles 
in their boost phase to protect America's interests.

Again, Mr. Speaker, while this rule provides for 2 hours of general 
debate on the bill, there are areas that this House needs and deserves 
to address through the amendment process. That will be addressed in the 
second rule that we will discuss in the Rules Committee tonight and 
will presumably be on the floor tomorrow. I certainly hope that the 
House is given a full and fair chance to consider these issues that 
I've highlighted, as well as others.

With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.