---
---

# RECOGNIZING MITRE'S 50 YEARS OF SERVICE
## `9a4ddf8f85fa3d673160757723113288`
`Mr. MORAN of Virginia — 15 July 2008`

---


Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
accomplishments achieved by the MITRE Corporation throughout its 50 
years of service to our Nation. MITRE has always been one of the 
leading research corporations dedicated to tackling the difficult 
technological issues for the Department of Defense.

MITRE was born in the Lincoln Laboratories of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology (MIT) in July 1958 as a non-profit company 
designed to provide research for America's air defense systems. 50 
years later, MITRE thrives as a defense-oriented Federally Funded 
Research and Development Center (FFRDC) that provides cutting edge 
systems including enterprise-wide control, communications, computer, 
intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities to the 
Department.

By providing advanced information technology and engineering systems, 
MITRE contributes to various areas vital to our Nation's defense. MITRE 
is known for its leading role in many successful defense systems that 
secure our Nation from attack, including the SemiAutomatic Ground 
Environment (SAGE), the Cheyenne Mountain and the NORAD complex, 
Ballistic Missile Early Warning System


(BMEWS), Joint STARS Aircraft and the Joint Tactical Information and 
Distribution System.

The women and men of MITRE provide their sophisticated skills through 
times of grave conflict. MITRE personnel have been deployed in the 
combat zones in Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan, and on September 11, 
2001, MITRE teams rushed to Ground Zero in New York minutes after the 
attacks to offer crucial assistance. The 6,000 professionals employed 
at MITRE are the essence of this company, dedicating their services 
whenever and wherever at a moment's notice.

Madam Speaker, I commend MITRE Corporation on its 50 year milestone 
of services. It is an innovative corporation that channels all of its 
resources to the defense of our Nation. I wish them great success in 
the years to come.
