# APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION  ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9a4f442bc506bed5fc2ccf4e0a15e16c`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 5 December 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of the 
Republican motion to instruct the conferees on the 2008 Department of 
Defense authorization act.

Madam Speaker, as we adjourned for the Thanksgiving recess, we 
witnessed something remarkable. We witnessed the Democratic majority, 
in working to mollify their liberal base one more time before the 
Thanksgiving recess, come to the floor pounding their fist declaring 
that we must not give our troops additional funding without 
congressional mandated withdrawal guidelines. They recycled the same 
old rhetoric, seemingly oblivious to the facts on the ground.

Thankfully, the direction of our efforts in the global war on terror 
is being guided by General Petraeus and others who do understand the 
momentum that we have garnered; that violence between Sunnis and 
Shiites has nearly disappeared from Baghdad, with terrorist bombings 
down 77 percent; that attacks against United States soldiers have 
fallen to levels not seen since before the February 2006 bombing of the 
Shiite shrine in Samarra; that United States casualties in Iraq are at 
their lowest level since March of 2006; and that many military 
analysts, including some who are opposed to the war, have concluded 
that the United States and its allies are on the verge of winning in 
Iraq.

Indeed, Madam Speaker, the distinguished chairman of the Defense 
Authorization Appropriations Subcommittee just returned from Iraq, and 
he declared that the surge is finally working. I reference Mr. Murtha 
from Pennsylvania.

Madam Speaker, this is something the other side doesn't like to 
discuss, victory in the global war on terror. That is tough to squeeze 
in with the defeatist rhetoric recited to appease MoveOn.org and Code 
Pink.

Another thing the Democratic majority never discusses are the 
consequences of failure, and they have been discussed this morning on 
our side.



That is why this motion to instruct is so important, Madam Speaker. 
It is critical that the House accept Senate provision 1536 and 
recognize that failure in Iraq would mean a collapse of a democratic 
Iraqi Government, likely leading to mass killings and genocide in that 
nation; certainly emboldening al Qaeda; regional instability; Iran and 
Syria determining the course of Iraq's future; and Israel being pushed 
into the Mediterranean Sea, just as Ahmadinejad called for.

These are the consequences of defeat and these are the reasons why 
Congress must commit to a strategy that will not leave a failed state 
in Iraq and why Congress must not pass, indeed, not pass legislation 
that risks demoralizing and undermining our military, as they are 
indeed on the verge of victory in Iraq.

So, Madam Speaker, the Democrats are zero for 40 in trying to compel 
this precipitous withdrawal from Iraq. With this motion to instruct, I 
ask them for once to get on the right side. Join not just the 
Republicans, but, more importantly, our brave men and women in the 
military, and give victory a chance.

Madam Speaker, I encourage all my colleagues, let's vote ''yes'' on 
the motion to instruct.