---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF LANCE CORPORAL JOSHUA H. BIRCHFIELD
## `9a5a0cdfb57a2b6617b39ca2c14d9685`
`Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana — 25 February 2010`

---


Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. Madam Speaker, today, I rise to solemnly 
honor Lance Corporal Joshua Birchfield for his dedication and service 
to the United States of America. LCpl Birchfield, a 24-year-old member 
of the Marine Corps, was killed on February 19, 2010 by small arms fire 
while conducting combat operations in Helmand Province during his first 
tour of duty to Afghanistan. Joshua risked everything to serve his 
country, and for that we are eternally grateful.

Joshua graduated from Westville High School in 2004 and enlisted in 
the Marine Corps on April 18, 2008. He joined the Marines after seeing 
a TV news segment focused on the hardships military families endure 
when they are separated, especially during the holidays. He was deeply 
inspired by those who dedicated their lives in the service of others, 
and he wanted to share the burden they were carrying on behalf of our 
nation. LCpl Birchfield was stationed in Helmand Province as a rifleman 
with the 3rd Battalion, 4th Marine Regiment, I Marine Expeditionary 
Force based in Twentynine Palms, California. For his service and 
support in Operation Enduring Freedom, he has been awarded multiple 
military awards including the Purple Heart, Combat Action Ribbon, 
National Defense Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon and the NATO 
Medal.

A baseball enthusiast, Joshua was a hero to many in the Westville 
community and will be remembered as the selfless and compassionate 
human being he was. Joshua is survived by both his parents and sisters, 
extended family and many friends.

It is my solemn duty, and humble privilege, to honor and remember 
Lance Cpl. Joshua H. Birchfield and a life cut tragically short. Joshua 
stands as a testament to the great honor possessed, and sacrifices 
made, by our men and women in the armed forces, and their families. We 
were all blessed by his presence and we are all diminished by his 
passing. I, and the grateful citizens of Indiana's Second District are 
deeply saddened by his loss, especially for his family, our community 
and our country. We mourn his passing and offer solemn gratitude for 
his service.
