---
---

# VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2007
## `9a5a8d451393fd80c4865e53c35304f0`
`Mr. REICHERT — 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. REICHERT. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, we are here to, and I am honored to be here to support 
H.R. 1284, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 
2007. It sounds awful cold and mechanical when you rattle it off in 
that way, but it means a lot to the people who serve this country.

I was, as my good friend Mr. Miller said, I was in the Air Force. I 
served 33 years in the King County Sheriff's Office in Seattle, 
Washington, and I had friends who were wounded in the line of duty, 
partners who were wounded, partners who were killed and sacrificed


their lives to protect their communities. I, myself, was nearly 
mortally wounded in serving our community as a sheriff's deputy.

I know what it means to have a community come behind you. I know what 
it means to have a family stand with you. I know what it means to have 
your friends, your relatives, and your local government to be there 
with you.

Our veterans deserve to know what that feeling is. They need to know 
the United States Government and Members of Congress are standing with 
them. We are soldiers here fighting with them, providing them with the 
benefits they need, the tools they need, the things they need to do 
their job, the things they need to do to protect their families, the 
things they need to have to provide for their families.

Two weeks ago I stopped and visited a marine in a Seattle VA 
hospital. This marine was wounded in the neck with a .22 caliber 
bullet. I stood in awe at his courage as he lay paralyzed from the 
waist down, and I asked him what his plans were for the future, and 
that I was honored to meet him, and sorry that he was wounded in 
battle.

He looked at me and smiled and said, Why feel sorry for me? Don't. I 
volunteered for this work. I want to protect America. You know what he 
said his plans for the future was? To go back to Iraq. He said, I will 
walk again and fight next to my brothers and sisters on the front 
lines.

I met another soldier at Madigan Hospital, the Army hospital in 
Tacoma, Washington, a soldier who was standing near someone who blew 
themselves up, a suicide bomber. He is now suffering from a blood viral 
infection. He has been treated for over a year at Madigan Hospital. I 
said the same thing to him. I am honored to meet you. What are your 
plans for the future?

He said, I will heal. Don't feel sorry for me. I am going back to 
fight with my fellow soldiers.

This cost-of-living increase seems mechanical to us as we sit here in 
this House floor. It means a lot to the soldiers that are fighting and 
dying for this freedom of our citizens, of all of us here today.

I am so proud to be here to stand before you and support this 
legislation.

One of the other things that we must do, not only pass legislation 
that helps them provide for their families and for themselves and their 
future, you must reach out and make sure that those veterans who are 
out in our community, 624,000 veterans in the State of Washington, know 
what benefits are available to them.

On March 31, we would hold a veterans fair just across the water from 
Seattle, Washington, and invite every veteran in the State to be there 
so they can learn how we can help them and we can honor them.