---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `9a5e4c3e343ebe22b13bb3441a120230`
`Mr. KIND — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2956, 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act of 2007.

For months, I, along with many of my colleagues in this chamber, have 
been calling on the President to forge a new direction with the war in 
Iraq. Our pleas have fallen on deaf ears.

Despite failing to meet his own benchmarks of progress, despite new 
reports of the unsustainable cost of this war, despite the tremendous 
dissatisfaction and disenchantment of the American people and members 
of his own party--the President recently made public statements to the 
effect that he is unwilling to change the course and try a new 
strategy.

The American people are dissatisfied with the deteriorating situation 
in Iraq. They are tired of finger-pointing and political gamesmanship. 
They want some answers, and they quite rightly expect and deserve one. 
As their elected representatives and leaders, I believe it is our 
responsibility in Congress to work together to move this country 
forward to an honest solution.

It is clear that American troops have accomplished their military 
mission. Yet we have now tasked them with forging political compromise 
as well, leaving them in the middle of a burgeoning civil war in Iraq. 
It is widely recognized that the sectarian strife taking place in Iraq 
right now cannot be solved through military means alone, and the 
President's refusal to entertain any new strategies has put our troops 
in an untenable position. I cannot continue in good conscience to ask 
our brave troops to risk their lives because I don't believe their 
sacrifice is being met with an equal commitment from the Iraqi people. 
The tough but necessary political compromises are not being made.

While the Iraqis are moving toward a transparent and effective 
government, what is missing is the necessary political accommodation to 
move the country towards reconciliation. Unfortunately, Iraqis by 
themselves appear incapable of achieving political progress. Instead, 
years later, they continue to lean on the United States and our 
military for stability, teetering on the brink of full-blown civil war 
without the will to make the political compromises necessary to peace.

Be assured that I am the last person in this chamber that wants to 
take irresponsible actions that would take the country into complete 
chaos. But American military power is not the solution to the war. More 
troops, more time, more money--these are not the answers. Congress 
needs to understand, as the American people do, that we must begin 
planning for a responsible withdrawal and redeployment of U.S. troops 
from Iraq. H.R. 2956 provides for a safe and orderly reduction of 
troops in Iraq and a transition to a limited presence of American 
troops in country for force protection, training of Iraqi Security 
Forces, and counterterrorism missions. I urge my colleagues to support 
this measure.

We must send a clear message to the Iraqi government that the 
patience of the American people is not endless, and that they must take 
control of their future. Passage of H.R. 2956 will help send that 
message.

I believe strongly that we must not wait any longer to send this 
message. The time to act is now, to force the hand of this 
Administration and the Iraqi government. Waiting any longer will simply 
lead to more fatalities for U.S. soldiers, Iraqi military, and 
civilians.

Finally, I would like to offer my heartfelt thanks and undying 
admiration for our men and women in uniform for their service to our 
country. May God bless them and their families during this difficult 
time. May God provide his special blessings and care for those who fell 
in the line of duty. And may God continue to bless these United States 
of America.