---
---

# H. CON. RES. 248, A RESOLUTION TO DIRECT THE PRESIDENT TO REMOVE THE  U.S. ARMED FORCES FROM AFGHANISTAN
## `9a8756801045012746f80d6781c17651`
`Mrs. MALONEY — 19 March 2010`

---


Mrs. MALONEY. Madam Speaker, for years, the mission in Afghanistan 
was poorly defined and managed by the Bush Administration--despite the 
9/11 attacks having been perpetrated


by those trained and based in Afghanistan. Still, President Bush 
diverted attention and resources to Iraq, misleading the American 
people and Congress as to the true source of the threat to our nation 
and the world.

 After considerable and careful review of military options in 
Afghanistan, President Obama submitted to the American people a sober 
assessment of the realties on the ground and a plan to end U.S. 
involvement. I believe that the President is committed to ending the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I support his efforts, but I believe 
we must expedite his timetable.

 Undoubtedly, our brave men and women in uniform have fought well and 
deserve our full support and commitment to return them home safely to 
their families and loved ones.

 Our troops have fought with honor and professionalism in the face of 
great challenges, and at great cost--I am truly humbled by their 
service and sacrifice.

 While I support the President and our military leadership in 
bringing this war to a responsible end, I believe the time has come to 
send a message that the United States cannot sustain an open-ended 
commitment in Afghanistan. I believe the resolution before us sends 
that message.

 That is why I vote in favor of the resolution today.
