---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF THE REMARKABLE EFFORTS OF SEW MUCH COMFORT
## `9a880dfa8967c8b45a041f04d38229af`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 1 October 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United States 
Congress, it is an honor for me to rise today to recognize the 
nonprofit organization, Sew Much Comfort, which coordinates the efforts 
of volunteer seamstresses to adapt clothing for wounded servicemembers.

This all-volunteer initiative formed in December 2004 as a 501(c)3 
public charity and is the only organization that provides specially 
designed adaptive clothing to military hospitals. Ginger Dosedel 
founded the organization nearly 4 years ago when her husband was 
stationed at Eglin Air Force Base. Their son underwent treatment at 
Walter Reed Army Medical Center for muscular cancer and suggested to 
his mother that she may be able to help the many wounded soldiers they 
met while in Washington, DC.

Their mission ''to design, create, and deliver customized clothing 
for these brave troops'' not only provides our heroes with a tangible 
symbol of our immeasurable support for them, but also helps to 
facilitate the healing process upon their return from military service.

The Emerald Coast Chapter of the American Sewing Guild recently 
sponsored an event where numerous volunteers gathered in Baker, a city 
in my district of Northwest Florida, to sew for this wonderful cause.



Over the past four years, thousands of volunteers have worked 
diligently to alter shirts, shorts, boxer shorts, and pants. All of 
which are shipped to a central distribution center in Ohio and then 
allocated to military hospitals throughout the United States, as well 
as Germany, Iraq, and Afghanistan

Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United States Congress, I am proud to 
recognize the remarkable philanthropic efforts of Sew Much Comfort and 
their volunteers for their generosity and commitment to service which 
has helped to create a better life for our brave servicemembers.
