# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `9a8a01ccc5a5901fc9f661d327608883`
`Ms. LANDRIEU — 26 April 2007`

---


Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, I have a book which is a poignant and 
wonderful account of life in Louisiana after the storms. It is called 
''1 Dead in Attic,'' written by Chris Rose, a reporter for the Times 
Picayune. The title refers to the unique system for identifying what 
happened in people's homes during the storm. The notation, sprayed on 
the wall for everyone to see, would explain whether there were pets or 
people or, in this case, someone no longer living. This symbol--this 
information--remains spray painted on the sides of many houses to this 
day.

In this book, Mr. Rose describes 2005:




 This was the year that defines our city, our lives, our 


 destiny. Nothing comparable has ever happened in modem times 


 in America, and there is no blueprint for how we do this. We 


 just wing it. Do good works. Save someone or something.



 *
*
*



 If there was no New Orleans, America would just be a bunch 


 of free people dying of boredom.


A photographer for from England noted:




 I witnessed the destruction of one of the finest cities in 


 America, her soul bared and exposed, her inequality and 


 inefficiency laid out for all to see. And through it all I 


 saw the grace, courage and dignity of her citizens, forced to 


 flee their homes, their lives, their history. I trust her 


 soul will be repaired.


I want to thank Chairman Byrd for his many courtesies and assistance 
in this bill. I also want to thank his staff for all of their hard work 
and long hours. I also want to thank Senator Cochran, who has done so 
much for the people of the gulf and who shares so much of the hard work 
on the recovery with me and the other gulf coast Senators. In fact, the 
entire Senate appropriations Committee--my fellow Senators and their 
staff--have been so supportive of us through this process--and I thank 
them.

There are many provisions that will help the ongoing recovery efforts 
in my state and along the rest of the gulf coast included in this bill.

I intend to vote for this bill because it provides critical resources 
and removes obstacles to the recovery of the gulf coast. In addition, 
the bill provides funding necessary to support our troops in Iraq.

Hurricane Katrina hit the gulf coast in August of 2005 and Hurricane 
Rita followed on its heels just a few weeks later. While a great deal 
of time has passed, and a lot of progress has been made, this recovery 
will take many, many years.

As you have heard me say on many occasions, the damage to the gulf 
coast is unimaginable. Sometimes I think that people forget just how 
unimaginable the damage was. Mr. President, 1,836 people were killed. 
To put this in perspective, this means that l out of every 3 people who 
work here in the Senate would have lost their lives 6008 people work 
for the Senate. Mr. President, 650,000 people were displaced. It would 
be as if every single solitary person in the District of Columbia were 
displaced from their homes and neighborhood.

Over 275,000 homes were damaged, with over 205,000 of those in 
Louisiana alone--again, this is the equivalent of every home in the 
District of Columbia being flooded, damaged, or destroyed, and 240,000 
jobs were lost. Here in DC, we are lucky, there are more jobs than 
there are residents. However, were a similar disaster to strike DC., 
every other person employed in the District would have lost their job. 
Also, 875 schools were destroyed and there was $82 billion in property 
damage.

If you want to try an experiment at home, paint a chalk line at a 
point 3 feet from the floor and imagine that everything below that line 
submerged in water.

But we are coming back from that aweful year. It is a long, hard 
struggle but there are signs of hope. Our people are rebuilding their 
homes. There are now over 223,000 people living in Orleans Parish--
about 43 percent of the pre-storm population--and over 450,000 in 
Jefferson. Our businesses are reopening. Visitors are returning. Our 
schools are rebuilding--better than before. We are creating a new 
health care system for the 21st century in Louisiana.

However, much work remains. This bill will help so very much with 
those


ongoing efforts. I want to thank all of you for supporting these 
measures.

Some out there have taken issue with this funding. This assistance to 
the gulf coast is not ''extraneous''. It is necessary. However, the 
President has called this spending ''excessive non-emergency 
spending''. This is simply untrue.

This bill provides about $3 billion in additional direct aid to the 
gulf coast. We spend $8.6 billion per month in Iraq, which is $286 
million per day. So, we are providing the people of the Gulf Coast with 
the equivalent of 10 days of the funding for the war. To date; we have 
spend $470 billion in Iraq and Afghanistan. In Iraq only, we have spent 
$379 billion.

Mr. President, you tell Cameron Parish where all 6 of their grade 
schools were closed until October 31, 2005 and 62 percent of all school 
facilities were destroyed that their teachers don't deserve a little 
extra money and that providing $30 million for bonuses and incentives 
for the grade schools in Mississippi and Louisiana is too much.

You tell Dillard University, which had $115 million dollars in 
physical damage and lost $26 million in revenues--which counts Ellis 
Marsalis and Reavis Ortiz among its alumni--whose campus is not far 
from the lower levee breach of the London Avenue Canal and which 
suffered extensive flood damage in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina 
and whose main hall, Nelson Hall, was destroyed by a fire, during the 
flood, whose students took their normal classes at The New Orleans 
World Trade Center and The New Orleans Hilton Riverside Hotel until 
this fall, that $30 million in assistance--to be divided among the 27 
universities that were closed in Louisiana and Mississippi--is 
''excessive''.

You tell small businesses in St. Bernard--where there were 1,400 
businesses before the storm and only about 400 have re-opened and less 
than 70 percent of the population has returned--that $25 million for 
economic injury loans is ''extraneous'' or unnecessary. Even Wal-Mart 
has not reopened in this Parish.

You tell the people of Jefferson Parish, St. Bernard Parish, 
Plaquemines Parish, and Orleans Parish that their levees should not be 
repaired and that their homes and businesses will remain vulnerable to 
the next storm and that an additional $1.3 billion for their safety is 
too much.

What is included in the Emergency Supplemental is FAIR funding, 
waiver of the 10 percent match. This bill eliminates the red-tape 
associated with so much of the Federal money. This supplemental 
includes the FAIR Funding Act language which will waive the local cost 
share for FEMA public assistance. This is FAIR. Hurricanes Katrina and 
Rita were the first and third most costly disasters in the history of 
this country and the Federal Government has waived this local share 
requirement in 32 different disasters since 1985, including Hurricanes 
Andrew and Iniki.

Forgiveability of CDLs is included. This bill will also correct a 
grave inequity and allow for our community Disaster loans to have the 
same treatment as all others.

Levee money is included. In addition, this bill will shore up a 
shortfall that has been identified by the Army Corp of Engineers. They 
have estimated that they will be short $1.3 billion dollars this year 
for necessary levee work in Louisiana. However, instead of asking for 
money to alleviate this shortfall, the administration merely wanted to 
rob Peter to pay Paul. However, this committee has wisely decided to 
provide additional money for this necessary work. Unfortunately, I do 
not believe that this will be sufficient to meet the ongoing needs--or 
will be enough to restore, repair and rebuild our levee system.

There is support for our education system. The Universities in 
Louisiana have been critical to our rebuilding efforts. They have 
fought to come back and about 80 percent of the students have returned. 
More importantly, the universities have provided resources and 
leadership during the rebuilding of the region. In Louisiana, they are 
also helping our grade schools stand up--forging new and stronger 
partnerships with our new school system.

Our universities suffered over a billion dollars in damages as a 
result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. In the 4th supplementa1 passed 
last Congress, we provided $40 million dollars for higher ed 
assistance--of which $33 million went to Louisiana universities. In 
this bill, we appropriate another $30 million, every penny of which is 
necessary.

We also provide $30 million in order to reward the teachers who give 
their hearts out trying to bring normalcy to our children and prepare 
them for the future.

I appreciate the continued assistance that this committee and my 
colleagues in the Seanate have given to the people of the Gulf Coast--
and the hope that this legislation provides to them.

Mr. President, it is not often I disagree with my good friend from 
Mississippi, but I will say the people of the gulf coast don't think 
they are riding on the backs of the troops; they think they are the 
troops. The Guard and National Reserve who were in Iraq who are from 
Louisiana, 3,000 fighting in Iraq, only to come home to have their 
homes destroyed, have their jobs lost. They don't think it is too much 
to ask of the President to include $3 billion in a $24 billion bill--$3 
billion for the gulf coast recovery, which is domestic emergency 
funding that has been included in every supplemental, even when the 
Republicans drafted a bill where there was money for domestic 
emergencies. The people of the gulf coast don't believe $3 billion is 
too much to ask.