---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9a8efd0f17791eaa6a4290434d423948`
`Mrs. BOXER — 1 May 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, if you come to my office--I think you have 
had the opportunity to do so--you will see in front of the entrance at 
112 Hart four huge placards with very small print paying tribute to 
those from California who have died in this conflict. The sadness of 
all sadness is that we keep having to send these posters back to be 
printed in yet smaller print because we keep having to add so many to 
it, and we are actually running out of space. We will have to get 
special permission from the Architect of the Capitol to place yet 
another placard in front of our door.

But we will do it regardless because we must put names on this 
conflict, ages on this conflict, we must pay tribute to those who are 
being sacrificed, in my opinion, by a President who simply will not 
change course, for whatever reason, from a failed course.

Anyone who reads the Constitution--I highly recommend it; it is a 
very


readable document; it is a very concise document--will see that when it 
comes to war, there is a shared responsibility. As a matter of fact, if 
you read the Constitution, you will see Congress mentioned far more 
times, far many more times than the President. The President cannot act 
as if he is king. We already had a king, King George. We have a 
democracy. This is what the President says our young people are dying 
for in Iraq. Yet at home he acts as if he is a one-man show when it 
comes to Iraq.

Mr. President, the American people said no to that this past 
election. Yet it continues as if there is no Congress, there has been 
no election, there has been no change of heart by the American people, 
when, in fact, there has been an enormous change of heart by the 
American people. That change of heart is reflected in the election, in 
the composition of this Senate, and you, Mr. President, actually are 
part of that change, that message that we wanted a change in the 
leadership. With all of this, it just goes on and on.

Today is the fourth anniversary of the President's speech that major 
combat operations are over. Four years ago he said that, in a military 
outfit. Yet, still, in today's paper: April toll is highest of 2007 for 
U.S. troops. Over 100 killed this month. The Iraqi deaths are far 
higher.

Three years ago the President said: Major combat operations are over. 
Today we read: The deadliest month in 2007. As a matter of fact, in the 
past 3 days--as of yesterday, 3 days prior to that, we had 14 
dead. That is about one for almost every person in the President's 
Cabinet.


What would it be like if 14 people sat around the President's Cabinet 
table, and every one of them had lost a child? How long would this war 
last? How long would this war last? But who is paying the price? Who is 
paying the price? Our military families. They want a change. We want 
success.

How do you get success? It is by changing course. It is what we sent 
the President. If you read what we sent the President in this emergency 
bill--I say to the Presiding Officer, I know you are so aware of it--it 
is a change in course. We are going to shift, as the Iraq Study Group 
suggested, from a combat mission to a support mission. We are going to 
gradually redeploy our troops out of there--not overnight--but 
sensibly. We are going to leave forces in Iraq to target al-Qaida, 
which never was in Iraq before this war, and now they are all over it 
because they want to go after our troops. So we are going to leave 
troops there in Iraq. That is what the Feingold-Reid-Boxer bill does as 
well. It says we have to have a mission there to go after al-Qaida when 
this war is over. We say training the troops is OK. Going after al-
Qaida is what we want to do, and we want to have enough troops there 
for force protection.

So anyone reading this--when the President says it is irresponsible, 
maybe he has not read it. There is time, Mr. President. You have not 
gotten this bill yet. Read it again. Look at it. We are changing course 
in a responsible way, the way the Iraqi Study Group that you praised 
says we should do. That was a bipartisan group. We all remember it: 
Secretary Baker, Lee Hamilton, and the others.

Do you know why we have to change course? Because the mission you 
have given our military cannot be accomplished militarily. The mission 
now is--and since the mission has changed so many times, we have to go 
back. The mission now is: Bring stability and democracy to Iraq, and 
Iraq at peace within its own borders and with its neighbors, and an 
ally in the war against terror. That is the President's goal. That is a 
political and diplomatic goal, I say to you, Mr. President. It is not a 
military goal. The military cannot do that. The military has done 
everything asked of it, and more.

The first mission: Find the weapons of mass destruction. They went 
into every nook and cranny of Iraq. There were none. So that mission: 
done, accomplished.

The President said: Go get Saddam. They did it. That mission: 
accomplished. That tyrant is gone forever.

He said: Go get his sons because maybe they will get the idea we mean 
business. The military got his sons, put the pictures on television of 
their dead bodies. It did not do the job.

What was the next mission? We have to hold elections. The military 
did a magnificent job. Three elections were actually held, and they 
have a government. Now, that Government will go on vacation, as I 
understand it, for 2 months while our troops are dying.

The fact is, the military has done every single thing asked of it. We 
are now at a point where the only way to win this war is to win it 
diplomatically, politically. Yet, this President will not change 
course. His solution is, more military action, a surge, which was 
supposed to last a few weeks--now we are being told a few months--and 
our military is paying the price. They are paying the price.

I want to read from this news article today: ''April Toll Is Highest 
of '07 for U.S. Troops'':




 On Monday, U.S. troops at Camp Victory, a sprawling base 


 near Baghdad International Airport, reflected on April's 


 deadly toll on their comrades. . . .



 ''It makes me feel depressed to be in Iraq right now,'' 


 said [Private Richard] Gonzalez, [22 years old,] who is on 


 his second deployment. ''It's a whole lot different than last 


 time.''



 Now, he said, soldiers at the base must carry weapons. 


 Return addresses on letters from home must be ripped off and 


 burned, so as not to fall into the wrong hands. On his first 


 deployment, eight months passed before his Baghdad base was 


 hit by mortar fire.


This time, incoming fire every single day--4 years after ''mission 
accomplished.''

''There's a whole lot more activity,'' said Spec. Krystal Fowler, 21, 
of Hampton, Va. She said it ''kind of bothers'' her to know other 
troops are taking hits in the field and she can't help.

SPC Natisha Jetter said:




 Our fellow soldiers are out there dying, and we're here. . 


 . .



 Gonzales said the deaths made him realize that ''there's a 


 war going on out there.''



 Fowler sighed. It's a war between Iraqis, she said.



 ''We are just interfering, and letting our soldiers die.''



 ''I'd rather be out there helping people survive,'' Fowler 


 said. . . .



 There was a pause, as the soldiers mulled that.



 ''It's just terrifying, because you can drive the same road 


 for eight months, and then one day it's over,'' Gonzalez 


 said.



 ''Over,'' Fowler echoed.


I ask, rhetorically, in light of what our troops are feeling, 
saying--going there for a second deployment, third deployment and more, 
and the increased number of deaths of our troops, and the horrific 
things that are happening in Iraq, detailed in the Red Cross report, 
which I ask unanimous consent to be printed in the Record, Mr. 
President, this International Red Cross report.