# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9a90cc4c518861d9cc190ef21602c3a6`
`Mr. STARK — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. STARK. Madam Chairman, I rise today in strong support of making 
quality education and health care available to our children. The last 6 
years of Republican budgets created numerous human deficits--in health 
care, education, child care, and social services. This bill takes 
America in a new direction, beginning to fill those deficits with long 
overdue investments in Pell Grants, Head Start, public and special 
education programs and community health centers.

President Bush has threatened to veto this bill because he claims it 
is fiscally irresponsible. Only in an absurd parallel universe, where 
Iraq really had weapons of mass destruction, would increasing the 
amount of Pell Grants so that low-income students can afford college be 
considered irresponsible. Only in a fictional world, where abstinence-
only education actually works, could increasing funding for childcare 
and Head Start be irresponsible.

In the real world, these investments will generate valuable returns 
for--our children and our country. Passage of this bill is essential to 
repairing the safety net and providing our children with the world 
class education they need to become engaged and productive citizens.

It is critical for the future of public education that the federal 
government provide states with the support they need to meet the 
laudable, but difficult goals set by President Bush's own No Child Left 
Behind Act, NCLB. Unfortunately, the President has negligently 
underfunded his own law by $50 million. This bill provides a $2 billion 
increase in K-12 education funding, rejects the President's proposed 
cuts for special education programs for the 6.9 million students with 
disabilities, and expands the Child Care Block Grant by $75 million.

Today's legislation also takes a small step toward improving our 
broken health care system, in which tens of millions of people are 
uninsured or underinsured. It expands access to health care for 1.2 
million people by funding community health centers and state health 
access grants. This bill also makes overdue investments in the National 
Institutes of Health


by providing funds for 545 new research grants. Such grants fund 
breakthrough discoveries that can dramatically decrease suffering and 
disease.

I hope my colleagues recognize that this bill paves the way for a 
healthier, better educated, and more compassionate society and urge 
them to join me in voting yes.