# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `9a9b9b551347e6609b4f8f78f07e3094`
`Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California — 16 May 2007`

---


Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. Madam Chairman, I rise today in 
support of H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008.

I would like to thank my chairman, Mr. Skelton, for his really great 
work in producing a Defense bill with support from both sides of the 
aisle. It is commendable that Chairman Skelton was able to pass this 
bill on a vote of 58-0, given the heated and the very polarized debates 
that we were having in the House Armed Services Committee, especially 
with respect to the war in Iraq.

And as Chairman Skelton has repeatedly said, the purpose of this bill 
is to provide our troops with the equipment and the support that they 
need to carry out their mission.

I, for example, voted against granting the President the authority to 
use force in Iraq, and I have continued to question his repeated surges 
and his failing policies in Iraq. I have repeatedly asked the President 
to provide a plan to safely redeploy our troops to come home from Iraq.

But, having said this, until we can get our brave men and women home 
from Iraq, we must provide them with what they need to perform their 
mission. And that is what this bill does. At the same time, it asks the 
tough questions of the Defense Department and of this President.



One question, for example, that I have for the Department of Defense 
that I have been asking over and over for the last 4 years, what 
happened to the approximately 329,000 Iraqi security forces that had 
been trained? Specifically, where are they assigned? Are they reporting 
for duty? Or are they now working for the insurgency? And this bill 
asks that question.

The Defense authorization bill as a whole asks for accountability and 
for oversight from the President and from the Department of Defense. 
And I ask my colleagues to stand together and to pass this bill.