# None
## `9aa0dd18e60ae9a86fba233160dda77c`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida â€” 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I'd like to thank the gentlewoman from Ohio and 
all my colleague here tonight. I'm going to carry this conversation a 
little further about fiscal discipline because all of us elected last 
year, Democrats and, interestingly enough, Republicans, have supported 
fiscal discipline, but got way off track over the last 10 years. It's 
now the Democrats, many of us, who are sort of leading the fight. We 
are the fiscal hawks. We are the ones saying this is totally 
unacceptable for all the reasons you heard tonight.

I think the gentleman from Vermont already mentioned this, but it's 
worth restating. The Bush administration is responsible for the five 
biggest deficits, and that total is a staggering amount. But I want to 
just take that one step further because this is the kind of change that 
we are going to deliver.

Given the opportunities over the next couple of years, hopefully in a 
bipartisan way, that is the way we get things done here, but looking at 
this figure here, this is a chart that says: Taxpayer spending on Iraq 
war versus Federal spending on other priorities. This is for last year, 
fiscal year. It has the cost of the Iraq war, $150 billion.



The cost of NIH funding, that is all the research that government 
does, all the research on cancer and heart disease and Alzheimer's, all 
the things that afflict our families and our communities, it is a 
substantial amount of money. But that figure, plus all the college 
tuition assistance, everything we do to try to make sure that kids get


into school and get a college education, which we know is so important 
in the world economy, plus the cost of all the children's health care 
we provide in the United States, and all the cost of all the bridge 
repairs and road building and all the things that go on in every single 
one of our communities, sewers, roads, bridges, all those kinds of 
things, if you take the cost of roads and bridges, the cost of 
research, the cost of all the college tuition and the cost of all the 
health care, that total sum is less than what we spent on the Iraq war.

Now, we debated at length whether the Iraq war is a good war or not 
or has accomplished a lot. I personally believe, and I serve on the 
Foreign Affairs Committee, that, unfortunately, the real threat against 
our national security is in Afghanistan. And it still boggles my mind 
and most Americans that Osama bin Laden, who committed the worst crime 
against Americans in our history in the United States, is still free 
somewhere in the world perpetrating additional threats against the 
United States through al Qaeda.

The problem, of course, is that he and others most likely are in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, the mountain areas there. Unfortunately, we 
took our eye off the ball. But let's put that issue aside. Hopefully we 
will be able to deal with that in the near future with the next 
President.

Let's just talk about, we have spent $650 billion. I want everybody 
to remember this number, that is $339 million we are spending each day 
on the war in Iraq, $339 million per day. Let's think about what we 
could do with that money. I mean, we could have a debate at length 
here, and I am sure everybody listening tonight on the floor and 
throughout our country would have lots of good ideas that are 
legitimate priorities for our country. Yet we are spending that amount 
of money.

Now, is there an answer that the Democrats have put forward? You bet 
there is. What was this war sold to us on in terms of how it was going 
to be paid for? Oil revenues. Iraq sits on the third largest oil 
revenues and reserves of oil in the world; $80 billion, it is reported, 
in banks, some of which is in New York. Eighty billion dollars. That 
money was supposed to pay for the cost of reconstruction of Iraq, the 
cost of our military fuel and the cost also of the retraining of the 
military in Iraq, our military training their military. All legitimate 
things. Yet what has happened? President Bush has refused, the 
Republicans have refused to do that.

Now, I introduced a bill, H.R. 1111. H.R. 1111. I said it is number 
one, put Americans first. I think most Americans would agree with that. 
Let's take the money that Iraq has, it is $80 billion, and let them pay 
for the cost of their reconstruction, the cost of our men and women 
training their military, and our fuel costs. That is common sense. That 
is what we were told in the beginning. They have got the money.

Let's get on with it. That is how we can start putting Americans 
first and all the priorities that are so important to fixing our 
economy, getting jobs created, getting an educational system, getting 
health care put back together, Social Security, Medicare, all the 
priorities that make America strong on the inside first.

So I think that is a very important point, and we finally got a 
little bit of discussion on this. But the reality is this is the kind 
of leadership we are offering and we are providing.