---
---

# RENAMING THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
## `9ab1cb7234196568df5137c466c4c2fb`
`Mr. JONES of North Carolina — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, in 1947, with the 
National Security Act, the United States Congress clearly stated that 
we have four separate military services, the Army, the Air Force, the 
Navy and the Marine Corps. Too many times people, both in the military 
and outside the military, do not realize that we have four separate 
services.

The Department of the Navy was created to be the department for two 
equal services acknowledged by law, the United States Marine Corps and 
the United States Navy. Both the Navy and the Marine Corps have proud 
heritages. In my service in Congress and in my seven terms on the Armed 
Services Committee, many times in hearings we hear the Navy admirals 
and the Marines generals stating for the Record, we are one team, we 
are one fighting team.

Madam Speaker, it is time for the Marine Corps to be recognized as 
the other three services are recognized. As a great defender of freedom 
for America with H.R. 346, this is the fourth Congress that I have 
introduced legislation to change the name of the Department of the Navy 
to be the Department of the Navy and the Marine Corps.

Madam Speaker, 121 of my colleagues last year cosponsored the bill. 
This year the bill is the same language. We are gaining large numbers 
from both parties who believe in the fairness of this legislation.

I would like to share part of an editorial published last year in the 
Chicago Tribune, and I quote, ''No service branch shows more respect 
for tradition than the United States Marine Corps does, which makes it 
all the more ironic that tradition denies the corps an important show 
of respect: Equal billing with the other service branches.''

Madam Speaker, I submit for printing in the Record the entire 
editorial from the April 21, 2006, Chicago Tribune.








 [From the Chicago Tribune, Apr. 21, 2006]













Step Up for the Marines




 No service branch shows more respect for tradition than the 


 U.S. Marine Corps does, which makes it all the more ironic 


 that tradition denies the corps an important show of respect: 


 Equal billing with the other service branches.



 The Continental Congress ordered ''two Battalions of 


 Marines'' to be raised in 1775 as landing forces for the 


 Navy. The Marines have remained within the Navy on government 


 organization charts ever since, even though the corps 


 functions through wartime and peacetime as a separate branch 


 in every other way.



 Like the Army, Navy and Air Force, the Marine Corps has its 


 own command structure. Its commandant holds equal status with 


 other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, which happens to 


 be chaired for the first time by a Marine, Gen. Peter Pace.



 Several Marine veterans and supporters have launched an 


 online petition drive to support a bill proposed by Rep. 


 Walter B. Jones. The North Carolina Republican, whose 


 district includes Camp Lejeune, wants to fix the matter 


 simply by changing the Department of Navy to the ''Department 


 of the Navy and Marine Corps.''



 Jones has twice passed similar measures in the House with 


 bipartisan support, but the Senate was cool to them. Senate 


 Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner, a Virginia 


 Republican, veteran and former Navy secretary, has promised 


 ''fair consideration'' for the legislation. That's Senate-


 speak for a reluctance to commit. His reluctance seems to be 


 rooted in a sense of tradition. But sometimes it's good to 


 break with tradition. The War Department, for example, became 


 the Defense Department after World War II. The Army Air Corps 


 was elevated in 1941 to the Army Air Forces and in 1947 to 


 the autonomous Air Force.



 The Marines have not asked for complete autonomy. Nothing 


 structurally needs to change in their relationship with the 


 Navy, which has served both branches well. The corps only 


 asks for recognition. Having served their nation proudly and 


 courageously since colonial days, the leathernecks have 


 earned a promotion.


But sometimes it's good to break with tradition. The War Department, 
for example, became the Defense Department after World War II. The Army 
Air Corps was elevated in 1941 into the Army Air Force, and in 1947 to 
the autonomous Air Force.

The Marines have not asked for complete autonomy. Nothing 
structurally needs to change in their relationship with the Navy, which 
has served both branches well. The Corps only asks for recognition, 
having served their Nation proudly and courageously since colonial 
days. The leathernecks have earned a promotion.

Madam Speaker, I want to say more emphatically beside me is a poster, 
is a blow up of orders from the United States Navy to submit to the 
family of Michael Bitz, a Marine sergeant killed in Iraq. His family 
received a Silver Star for valor. He gave his life for this country.

I have met his family, I have met his children, twins he will never 
know on earth because he died before they were born. You can see that 
the orders for Silver Star says at the top, the Secretary of the Navy, 
Washington D.C., and there is a Navy flag, but there is nothing about 
the Marine Corps about the heading.



We took these orders and we want to show you how, if this bill should 
become law, how the fairness will show itself. If you take the orders 
for Michael Bitz, again, a marine who died for this country, his family 
received a Silver Star, and should this bill ever become law, this is 
what the orders will say: the Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps, 
with the Navy flag and the Marine flag.

Madam Speaker, before I close, this is only an issue of fairness. The 
Marine Corps has earned this distinction to


stand with the other three services and be recognized as a separate 
service.

With that, Madam Speaker, I ask God to please continue to bless our 
men and women in uniform. I ask God, in his loving arms, to hold the 
families who have given a child dying in Afghanistan or Iraq. And I 
close by asking God to please continue to bless America.
