---
---

# None
## `9aba0845005c46d372d804e54568fb80`
`Ms. MATSUI — 26 July 2007`

---


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation--which 
I am proud to have co-sponsored--that commits our Nation to changing 
course in Iraq. This House, and the American people we represent, will 
not allow our involvement in Iraq's civil war to continue indefinitely.

Today's bill makes it crystal clear that no permanent military bases 
will be built in Iraq. As such, it is proof that the new Congressional 
leadership is focused on ending this war. It is evidence of our 
dedication to the well-being and protection of our troops. And, above 
all else, it begins to implement a strategy to reassert our country's 
proper role in the world.

For these reasons, this legislation deserves the unwavering support 
of each and every Member of this House.

Mr. Speaker, we know that much of the strife taking place in Iraq has 
deep historical and cultural roots. As a result, any resolution to the 
conflict will be political in nature and not imposed through force. A 
central component of such a solution will require us to redeploy our 
troops from Iraq, and I am proud to have voted in favor of such a 
strategic shift along with a majority of the new Democratic Congress.

Unfortunately, this rational way forward has been blocked by a 
President whose insistence on imposing a military solution has cost the 
lives of thousands of coalition forces and Iraqi civilians. The 
President's strategy is not working, Madam Speaker. And along with a 
majority of my colleagues, I will continue to vote to change it.

Passing the bill before us today will help us accomplish this goal. 
It will send an unmistakable message to our Armed Forces that the 
American people will not abandon them to a faraway civil war. It will 
demonstrate to the rest of the world that the United States is not bent 
on occupying other sovereign nations. It will signal to the Iraqi 
people that they must assume responsibility for their own government. 
Finally, it will allow our military the time it needs to re-focus on 
emerging threats to our allies and to our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, this bill validates what the American people have known 
for a long time: our presence in Iraq must end, for the good of our 
country and for the sake of those who have laid their lives on the line 
to fight for it.
