---
---

# None
## `9ac6d2e758dbfd723c968280c2b432cb`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, not many 
Americans of our generation have failed to see the movie 
''Casablanca.'' There are many memorable lines in that movie. My 
favorite was uttered by the actor, Claude Rains, when he walked into 
the casino and said incredulously: ''Gambling in Casablanca?'' Followed 
by the comment: ''Round up the usual suspects.''

Sixty votes in the Senate? As common as gambling in Casablanca.

I think we can stipulate, and my good friends on the other side of 
the aisle stipulated from time to time over the years when they were in 
the minority, that in the Senate it takes 60 votes on controversial 
matters. What is more controversial than the war in Iraq? Of course, it 
is going to take 60 votes. No one in the galleries and certainly no one 
in this town and even casual observers of the Senate across the country 
would be surprised that on a controversial matter of this consequence 
it would require 60 votes.

Now the leader has also made some observations about the status of 
the war. Most Members on this side of the aisle don't believe it is any 
accident that we haven't been attacked again since 9/11. They believe 
it is because we have been on the offense in places such as Afghanistan 
and Iraq, and we have taken it to the enemy. A lot of them are dead, 
many of them are in Guantanamo, and the rest are on the run.


There is no plan after the Levin amendment. Withdraw, and then what? 
What happens then? We haven't been dodging this debate. We offered to 
have the Levin amendment voted on yesterday. The only reason we stayed 
in all night was to provide a bit of theater on an extraordinarily 
important issue.

This is a serious debate. Members on this side of the aisle engaged 
in this debate throughout the evening. We were not afraid of the 
debate, but we certainly were not delaying the vote. We would have been 
happy to have the vote at any point over the last few days.

So, Mr. President, the request was that we have additional Iraq 
votes----