---
---

# None
## `9ac9aab5b691049a4eaef4a57b568dfb`
`Ms. NORTON — 28 June 2010`

---


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, as amended, H.R. 3913 would require the Mayor of the 
District of Columbia to establish a program to provide financial 
assistance to members of the District of Columbia National Guard to 
assist in covering higher education expenses. The Mayor would establish 
this program in coordination with the commander of the District of 
Columbia National Guard. Assistance would be capped at $6,000 per year 
per National Guard member.

H.R. 3913, as amended, authorizes appropriations to the District of 
Columbia for the assistance program. The bill would also authorize the 
transfer of funds from Federal agencies for providing assistance under 
the program. The initial authorization for the program is $370,000 in 
FY 2011. The bill would permit annual adjustments in succeeding years 
based on the tuition inflation index used by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs for educational benefits. As amended, H.R. 3913 complies with 
PAYGO requirements.

Mr. Speaker, in addition, the bill seeks to name the bill after 
former General David Wherley of the District of Columbia National 
Guard.

Mr. Speaker, I told the D.C. National Guard's 547th Transportation 
Company when they were deployed to Iraq about a year ago that I would 
introduce several D.C. National Guard bills concerning their service. 
Today, we consider the Major General David F.


Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and College 
Access Act to permanently authorize funding for a program to provide 
grants for secondary education tuition to the members of the D.C. 
National Guard.

The bill authorizes an education incentive program recommended by 
former Major General David Wherley and his successor, Major General 
Errol Schwartz, who suggested that education grants would be useful in 
stemming the troublesome loss of members of the D.C. Guard to units, in 
part, because surrounding States offer just such educational benefits.

I am grateful that the Appropriations Committee has allotted funds in 
some years, with smaller contributions from the District, in the 
Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. A 
permanent authorization is necessary, however, to ensure that D.C. 
National Guard members receive equal treatment and benefits with other 
National Guard members on a regular basis, especially with surrounding 
States that do, in fact, have the higher education benefits we seek for 
the D.C. National Guard. The Guard for the Nation's Capital is 
competing for members from the pool of regional residents who find 
membership in Maryland and Virginia Guards more financially beneficial.

Mr. Speaker, last week, on June 22, we marked the 1-year anniversary 
of the commemoration of the Metro collision here involving two Red Line 
trains that took the lives of nine area residents, seven from the 
District of Columbia, including a local hero, Major General David F. 
Wherley, Jr., and his wife Ann. This bill is named in honor of General 
Wherley, who not only served his country all his adult life and never 
forgot the men and women who served under him at home or at war, but 
also was particularly attentive to the residents of the District of 
Columbia, especially the city's most troubled youth. Thereafter, 
Congressman Jose Serrano, chair of the Committee on Appropriations 
Financial Services Subcommittee, was good enough to offer this renaming 
in his appropriations bill last year and to appropriate the funds 
without authorization this year or in prior years.

Under General Wherley's command, the D.C. National Guard deployed 
several of its units to the global war on terrorism. General Wherley 
himself served courageously in both Iraq and Afghanistan, but at home 
he spent hours with me figuring out ways to get funds for programs for 
the District's children. We were successful, because he would show up, 
not only in my office, but wherever he was needed to get the funds to 
do the service for his men and for the children of this city.

General Wherley was a full-service leader. He not only commanded the 
D.C. National Guard; he worked closely with me and with city officials 
on programs for our city and its disadvantaged youth and for keeping 
our Guard competitive as a premier force at home as well as abroad.

 The education incentives in this bill serve not only to encourage 
high-quality recruits, but, when appropriated, have had the important 
benefit of helping the D.C. National Guard to maintain the force 
necessary to protect the Federal presence, because this funding helps 
equalize an important benefit compared with what is offered by Guard 
units in surrounding jurisdictions which also are open to D.C. National 
Guard members.

While the appropriators have been good enough to provide funding for 
the D.C. National Guard by considering it a programmatic request, it is 
imperative that this important educational initiative be authorized 
appropriately to ensure its permanent sustainability.

I urge my colleagues to support the bill.

I reserve the balance of my time.