---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9ad334539ee570db7eb1b3295cbed4d5`
`Mr. INHOFE — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I think we need to be real clear what we 
are talking about. What we are talking about is telling the enemy what 
we are going to do. If there is one thing they have said, our military 
has said we cannot do, is to leave precipitously and let them know when 
we are going to do it. But that is what we are talking about.

You know, when General Petraeus came a couple of weeks ago, I knew 
exactly what he was going to say because I was over there--I have been 
over there actually 15 times in the AOR of Iraq, not always in Iraq, 
sometimes Afghanistan, Djibouti and all of that.

But I have watched very carefully, from time to time when I have been 
there, what progress has been made. I was in shock the last two trips 
we took. The last two trips, it was so evident in that one area, 
starting with Anbar, where most of the problems were. And I was in 
Anbar Province, in Fallujah, during all the elections that took place, 
and it was chaos up there. We remember our marines going door to door 
World War II style and all the things that were going on there. It is 
now totally secure. It is not secure under us, it is secure under the 
Iraqi security forces.

We remember only a year ago the terrorists said Ramadi was going to 
be the terrorist capital of world. It is now secure. All of the way 
through down there, south of Baghdad, the same thing is happening.

What has happened with this surge are three different things: No. 1, 
the surge itself. That is more people. No. 2, we had General Petraeus 
going in. No. 3, they did get the message from some of these surrender 
and cut-and-run resolutions that there was the threat that we would 
pull out, and, consequently, the Iraqi security forces have done things 
they have never done before.

I learned something when I was over there, and that was it is not the 
political leaders, it is the religious leaders who are calling the 
shots. Our intelligence goes to all the weekly mosque meetings. Prior 
to the surge, 85 percent of the mosque meetings were anti-American 
messages. Since the surge, since April, there hasn't been one.

So this is the kind of progress that is being made. We now have 
volunteers going out there with spray cans, putting circles around the 
undetonated IEDs, doing this on their own, risking their own lives to 
help Americans.

We have this imbedded program, where they actually go in joint 
security stations and live with the Iraqis. It is something that has 
been very successful in developing close relationships. So this is the 
kind of success we are having.

I was up in Tikrit the other day. Remember, that is Saddam Hussein's 
hometown. Even up there, in that home territory up there, with the 
exception of Diyala, it all looks real good. That is the bottom line. 
We have success.

If we pass something now that tells them, in a period of time you can 
expect us to leave, and this is what we are going to do, we are giving 
them our playbook. If you look and see what some of our top leaders 
have said about that, General Petraeus said: We cannot leave without 
jeopardying the gains we have started to achieve.

Those are the gains I talked about. Secretary Gates said: If we were 
to withdraw, leaving Iraq in chaos, al-Qaida most certainly would use 
Anbar Province as another base from which to plan operations.

This is the type of thing we would be doing. I cannot imagine anyone 
would vote for any type of amendment that would tell the enemy 
specifically what we were going to do and when we were going to do it.

Ambassador Crocker says: I cannot guarantee success in Iraq. I do 
believe, as I have described, it is attainable. I am certain that 
abandoning or drastically curtailing our efforts will bring failure, 
and the consequences of such failure must be clearly understood by us 
all.

What are those consequences? It would be a vacuum. We have heard 
loudly and clearly from such people as President Ahmadi-Nejad who said:




 I can tell you there will be a power vacuum in the region. 


 [This is if we leave precipitously.] We are ready with other 


 regional countries such as Saudi Arabia, and the people of 


 Iraq to fill that vacuum.


In other words, we leave, Iran comes in, al-Qaida comes in, all the 
advances, all the sacrifices, all the lives that have been lost will 
have been lost in vain.

I cannot imagine anyone would vote for this amendment. I encourage my 
fellow Senators to oppose it.

I yield the floor.