# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `9ada576592ca347391638f3e50636b19`
`Mr. CONYERS — 2 August 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill.

We continue to fight to end the war in Iraq. However, in the 
meantime, we must ensure that our troops are provided with the time to 
return home, rest, recuperate and train before they return to battle. 
Our troops have risked their lives and Congress has a responsibility to 
stand up for them.

The legislation we are considering today strengthens the American 
military by mandating minimum periods of rest and recuperation for 
units and members of regular and reserve components of our Armed Forces 
between deployments. The bill states that if a unit or member of a 
regular component of the Armed Forces deploys to Iraq, they will have 
an equivalent amount of time at home before they are redeployed.

The legislation will help alleviate a significant military readiness 
crisis. When the Bush Administration took office in 2001, all active 
duty Army divisions were rated at the highest readiness levels and were 
fully manned, equipped, and trained. Now, the Administration's failed 
policies in Iraq have depleted our military and put a tremendous strain 
on our troops. Already, an estimated 250,000 soldiers in the Army and 
Marine Corps have served more than one tour in Iraq and each one of the 
Army's available active duty combat brigades has served at least a 12-
month tour in Iraq or Afghanistan. And this spring, the Defense 
Secretary announced that all active duty Army soldiers would have their 
tours in Iraq extended from 12 to 15 months.

The war in Iraq has had disastrous consequences for our Armed Forces 
and our troops. By reducing the stress on our men and women in uniform 
and ensuring they get the training they need to stay safe, this 
legislation makes support for the troops into more than an empty 
slogan.