# ONE TEAM--ONE FIGHT--ONE NAME
## `9b0c3e0ea7fc9f157233c6c297f854e7`
`Mr. JONES â€” 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, in each Congress since 2001, I have 
introduced legislation aimed at giving the Marine Corps the recognition 
it deserves as one of the official branches of the military. This year 
I introduced H.R. 24, a bill to redesignate the Department of the Navy 
as the Department of the Navy and Marine Corps. With much support, 309 
Members of the House joined me in this effort. The language was passed 
earlier this year by the House as part of the House version of H.R. 
2647, this year's National Defense Authorization Act.

I must say that I am very pleased and honored by the group of people 
that have supported this legislation. The Fleet Reserve Association, 
the VFW, the National Marine League and the Marine Corps Parents have 
been so busy urging their Senators to support this bill, and I want to 
thank them for their hard work.

Madam Speaker, I have been contacted by many members of the Marine 
Corps and Navy that support this bill and agree that this is all about 
the fighting team, the team named the Navy and Marine Corps. In this 
year's conference with the Senate, I had a Senator say to me that he 
had never received a letter from a marine supporting this bill.

Madam Speaker, I would like to read you a letter that a former Marine 
Corps general wrote to this particular Senator at the beginning of this 
month: ''I am writing to ask for your support in passing H.R. 24 and 
S.R. 501, which have been referred to the Committee on Armed Services 
and would redesignate the Department of the Navy as the Department of 
the Navy and Marine Corps.

''For many years I have been an advocate of the Navy and Marine Corps 
team and believe this team is without parallel in any of the Armed 
Forces in the world. I proudly served alongside my Navy brothers-in-
arms in both peace and conflict for 40 years. I would not recommend any 
action that I feel would belittle either partner of the team.

''Changing the name of the Department as proposed by this legislation 
would not demean the Navy, but would recognize marines as full partners 
in this team and would be a strong boost to their morale. In fact, the 
Department and the Secretary represent both services, the Navy and the 
Marine Corps, and this legislation would provide a name that mirrors 
the fact.

''Thank you for your consideration and for your continued and 
valuable service to our Nation.''



After 8 disappointing years, I hope one day the Senate will join me 
in supporting and bringing proper respect and acknowledgment to the 
fighting team of the Navy and Marine Corps. I want the supporters of 
this bill to


know that there will be a tomorrow. I'm not going anywhere. And I will 
continue to fight until the Marine Corps gets the acknowledgment it 
deserves.

In closing, I want to thank the many House Members who have supported 
this legislation for 8 years, and I want to close by asking God to 
please bless our men and women in uniform. I want to ask God to bless 
the families of our men and women in uniform. I want to ask God in his 
loving arms to hold the families who have given a child dying for 
freedom in Iraq and Afghanistan. And I close by three times and most 
sincerely asking God: God please, God please, God please continue to 
bless America.
