# COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT OF 2007
## `9b0e10d83f0493a46b3c72be3babcfaa`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 4 June 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise to respond to a couple of 
suggestions proffered before the Senate as it relates to those Senators 
who have amendments to offer to the comprehensive immigration reform 
legislation. I am compelled to do so because the way they are 
characterized ultimately demeans what should be a clear process of what 
is the greatest marketplace of ideas, the Senate.

The first item that I have heard several times is the suggestion that 
certain amendments are killer amendments. When one of our colleagues, 
particularly those who were part of constructing the bargain, suggests 
that a certain amendment is a ''killer amendment,'' a killer amendment 
where the intention, the purpose, the main goal is to kill the 
legislation before us because they don't like it and they don't want to 
see it pass, maybe they are a part of the universe who believes we 
should just seek to deport everybody in the country, 12 million people, 
the greatest deportation in the history of mankind. Maybe it is those 
who believe we should spend $250 billion in order to accomplish that. 
But, regardless, there is a universe of individuals that clearly does 
not like this bill or the idea of comprehensive immigration reform, and 
they seek to have amendments that would in essence destroy the essence 
of the legislation.

I am chagrined to hear my distinguished colleague from Arizona, in a 
listing of amendments, suggest that my amendments on family 
reunification are killer amendments. I didn't know that family 
reunification rose to the level of being a killer amendment because 
unlike some of our colleagues who last year opposed comprehensive 
immigration reform, I was here advocating for and casting votes 
for final passage of a comprehensive immigration reform bill. Yet some 
who come to the floor now and suggest that certain amendments are 
killer amendments weren't there last year for comprehensive immigration 
reform. I do want to see comprehensive immigration reform. I worked for 
it last year and voted for last year's version. I spent countless hours 
in negotiation sessions this year to try to achieve a bill that I could 
support.


It is still my fervent hope that we will pass a comprehensive bill, 
one that is tough but also smart; one that provides security at our 
borders north and south because it is amazing to me how in this entire 
debate we never hear about security at our northern border. Yet last 
year approximately 50,000 people came across the northern border. I 
guess we are not worried about those people. But we do focus a lot on 
the southern border. We forget that the millennium bomber came through 
the northern border. There must be something about that northern border 
that is OK. The southern border is a little bit of a problem. I don't 
know what it is, whether there are different people crossing those 
different types of borders, but they are still crossing in an 
undocumented fashion. So I am for security at the northern and southern 
borders.

I am also one who understands, in terms of the comprehensive nature 
of this bill, the economic realities of our country; that it helps fuel 
our economy and drives it forward, and also to stop human trafficking, 
the use of people enslaved for certain purposes and exploitation. I 
want to know who is in America to pursue the American dream versus who 
is here to destroy it. That is real security.

In the pursuit, I heard a lot about the rule of law. I am for the 
rule of law. But how does the rule of law get promoted when we say to a 
U.S. citizen who has applied for their family member waiting abroad, 
waiting their time, following the rules, obeying the rule of law, that, 
in fact, they have an inferior


right to someone who did not follow the rules, who did not obey the 
law, and who ultimately will receive a benefit superior to that U.S. 
citizen who is claiming their family member and waiting under the law 
and pursuing the law. I think it sends the wrong message about what the 
rule of law is all about.

Our amendment very simply says a U.S. citizen claiming their family 
member waiting under the legal process, waiting abroad, that their 
right should not be snuffed out like that under this bill in May of 
2005, when those who have crossed the borders of our country through a 
process that is unchecked, undocumented, get a benefit January 2007. 
Break the law, you get a benefit January 2007; follow the law, the rule 
of law, obey it, your right is snuffed out in May of 2005. I think if 
we want to send a message about the rule of law, what we want to do is 
ensure that we put on an equal footing the right of a U.S. citizen 
claiming their family member, obeying the law, to give them the same 
opportunity as those who have not. That is what our amendment is all 
about. Killer amendment? Family reunification, rule of law, following 
the rules, a killer amendment?

I have heard a lot about family values in my 15 years in the 
Congress. It is interesting. The voices of family values don't have the 
same values when it comes to this issue. Clearly, this vote will be a 
test of those who say they are for strengthening families, for bringing 
families together, for understanding the very essence of how strong 
families make for strong communities, of how we want to bring families 
together. Family reunification is at the core of the amendment I have 
offered before the Senate and that I believe we will be voting on 
tomorrow.

I believe it is a false choice to suggest that this legislation 
cannot move forward and that, in fact, we will have a killer amendment 
simply because we want to give a universe of people who have obeyed the 
law, followed the rules, sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, 
children of U.S. citizens, a chance over time to be able to come in. It 
seems to me that is a false choice.

It is also a false choice, under the new point system that is being 
devised for future immigration, that this new point system, in which 
there is 100 points maximum score, well, yes, we need new workers who 
will be highly skilled. I believe we can reconcile that need. I am 
hoping that we will actually do a much better job of educating 
Americans who will be able to be the engineers, the scientists, the 
researchers, and developers; those in the new technologies who will 
fuel America's prosperity. But while we move toward making that a 
reality, sure I am for saying that, OK, we are going to subscribe a 
series of points toward those people who have the skills. But must it 
be largely at the exclusion of family reunification? Is there no 
significant value to the idea that when you have someone come that 
their family members are ultimately a significant part of the strength 
and vitality of the country, of the success of those individuals on 
behalf of the country?

Servicemembers, who are not United States citizens or were not United 
States citizens, in different branches of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, who were worthy of wearing the uniform of the United 
States, worthy of fighting for the United States, worthy of being 
injured and shedding blood on behalf of the United States, but not 
worthy--not worthy--of being able to claim their family members? Is 
that what our values have come to?

I believe under both our amendment that offers the opportunity for 
U.S. citizens to claim their family members and Senator Clinton's 
amendment, which I have cosponsored with her, to have U.S. permanent 
residents to be able to claim their family members, if you are worthy 
to fight, then you are worthy to claim your family members.

It seems to me, isn't family worth 10 or 15 points in the 100-point 
system--and not with a barrier that says: Well, you get some points 
only if you reach a certain numeric number, and then the family is 
worth something. No. Families are worth something, it seems to me, from 
the very beginning, the very get-go.

In the 100-point system, 10 or 15 points is not worth going toward 
family? I think it is. If you are worthy of serving, you are worthy of 
claiming your family members.

Here is someone who served his country exceptionally well, I believe: 
Colin Powell. He served his country both as Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff and as Secretary of State. Under this system we are 
debating in the Senate, his parents would not have made it to America 
and he would not have served the country as well as he did. We are 
talking about the future Colin Powells, as we debate this legislation 
today.

GEN David Petraeus is right now leading our efforts in Iraq--a 
different challenge. Under this legislation, his parents would have 
likely not have made it to this country and his service would not have 
been realized. We are talking about the future General Petraeuses.

Under this bill, the person who discovered the polio vaccine, Jonas 
Salk, and eradicated polio--his parents would not have made it to this 
country and we would not have been the beneficiaries of his genius. He 
would not qualify with that high-tech percentage and certainly would 
have gotten very little for family reunification as it is presently 
constructed. If he happened to be among those family members now being 
claimed by a U.S. citizen after May 1, 2005, he would be out of luck, 
his right to be here would have been gone, and we would have lost one 
of the great scientists of our time.

Thomas Edison. His is the effort that in fact has made this Chamber 
light up, our homes light up, our businesses light up. I am 
particularly proud of Thomas Edison, of Menlo Park, New Jersey. Under 
this bill--if we do not change it by that which are being described as 
killer amendments--we would not have had a Thomas Edison because his 
parents would not have qualified under this bill.

Bob Hope. He went across the globe making sure our service men and 
women--who were giving of their all--were entertained. He brought 
laughter to us. He brought laughter to them in some of the most 
difficult theaters in the world. Under this bill, it is likely we would 
not have had Bob Hope as a national treasure.

So it seems to me when I listen to the suggestion that amendments on 
family reunification, particularly those upholding the right of a 
United States citizen today, who has filed for his family member--and 
where that right has been snuffed out, yet someone who crossed the 
border illegally and did not wait their turn, follow the rules, and 
obey the law has a better position--that is not about the rule of law.

The second set of propositions I want to talk about--and I spent a 
lot of time with these Senators, and I appreciate enormously the work 
they did. I really do. I think there are many aspects of this bill that 
are very good. Certainly, the security aspect is out there, big time. 
There are a lot of elements of the security aspect of this bill.

There are aspects that certainly recognize the economic future of our 
country. There is certainly finding a pathway to earned legalization--
and it is earned legalization. It is not amnesty. Amnesty is something 
for nothing. This is certainly not something for nothing. As a matter 
of fact, under this bill, if you happen to have a family of four in an 
undocumented status, by the time the process is finished, it costs you 
nearly $29,000, $30,000.

I was looking at the Federal Criminal Code. You can commit crimes on 
narcotics trafficking, you can commit crimes on possession of weapons, 
you can commit a series of crimes that have, as a maximum fine, $5,000. 
This is a civil penalty, and yet we are going to have people doing some 
of the harder jobs in America and their families of four paying about 
$29,000. That is not amnesty.

But even though I respect the incredible work of those 12 Senators 
who finally agreed to move forward with the bill we are debating today, 
12 is not 100. It is not even a majority. No one has a monopoly on how 
to best provide for comprehensive immigration reform. Proponents say 
this now: that family reunification amendments are killer amendments or 
that any set of amendments may be killer amendments. But at the end of 
the day, when it does not go to the heart of security, does not go to 
the heart of employment verification, does not go to the heart of 
Border Patrol, does not go to the heart of employment verification, 
does not


go to the heart of even a new system for determining who comes into the 
country under a new point system, does not go to the heart of violating 
the rule of law--but, in my mind, promotes the rule of law--I find it 
difficult that anyone can say those are killer amendments.

They may suggest it now in this context, but I am sure there will be 
a future piece of legislation in which they will be arguing on the 
other side, saying that as well intentioned as 12 Senators may be, it 
is not, in fact, even a majority of the Senate; it certainly is not 
100.

This is the Senate. It represents, collectively, 300 million 
Americans. That means all of us come together on behalf of the Nation's 
collective will, its collective purpose, and its collective common 
good.

Now, in that respect, the bottom line is, when you have amendments 
that do not go to the heart of security, employment verification, 
Border Patrol, that do not go to the heart of the ability to follow the 
rule of law, that do not go to the heart of the very essence of worker 
protections, that do not go to the heart of employment verification, do 
not go to the heart of the undoing of the balance in the earned 
legalization system--my God, we are talking about people who are 
waiting under the law to come to the country in a legal process.


So I have to take strong umbrage to the suggestion that there is 
somehow a monopoly on how to provide for comprehensive immigration 
reform, and particularly when amendments that are being offered by some 
of us on family reunification are suggested to be killer amendments.

I want to see comprehensive immigration reform pass. A killer 
amendment is offered by someone who wants to see it not pass. I did not 
dedicate all this time and effort to try to change one of the Nation's 
critical challenges in a way that can be tough, can be strong, can be 
smart, can provide for our security, can fuel our economy, and, at the 
same time, end human trafficking, exploitation, and bring people out of 
the shadows into the light--to know who is here to pursue the American 
dream versus those who are here to destroy it--I did not spend all that 
time to try to kill legislation. I am seeking to improve it.

I hope our colleagues, who travel across the country and talk about 
family values, are going to join us tomorrow on that amendment. This 
institution is the greatest marketplace of ideas. That is what the 
Senate is about. It is in the clash of ideas that we hopefully come 
together and provide some of the best possible solutions to some of our 
greatest challenges.

I hope the amendments we are offering in that respect are not 
categorized as killer amendments but they are categorized as ideas 
within this marketplace to improve this legislation in a way we can all 
be proud of.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.