---
---

# VETERANS OUTREACH IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `9b1b0d3fc767442e22732b2bbe2ab1ef`
`Mr. FILNER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to myself such time as I may 
consume.

This bill comes to us from the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
McIntyre), and we thank him for his leadership on veterans outreach.

If I had to sum up this bill in one phrase, I would say that it 
allows local organizations to provide more bang for the buck by having 
greater resources at the local level.

This bill requires the VA to partner with State and local 
governments, through grant opportunities, to reach out to veterans and 
their families to ensure receipt of benefit for which they are eligible 
and assist them in completing their benefits claims.

As we have seen from recent news reports all over the country, we 
still have veterans slipping through the cracks of this system. They 
are either unaware of their veterans benefits or are having difficulty 
getting those benefits processed.

This bill establishes a grant program for the VA to provide to 
States' outreach activities, cooperative relationships and benefit 
claims development. The grant program allows State veterans agencies to 
award a portion of the grants to local governments for outreach 
purposes.

In addition, the grant allows funding for education and training of 
State and local government employees for accreditation to provide 
outreach services. It may also be used to establish a local government 
veterans service program.

The bill prohibits any portion of the grant to be used by the State 
for administrative purposes and requires the VA to allocate grants 
based on veteran populations.

The bill limits grant use by States to less than 50 percent of the 
cost of State and local government outreach activities and prohibits 
grant funds from supplanting State and local funds for such activities.

H.R. 67 authorizes $25 million annually, in fact $1 per veteran in 
our Nation, to improve outreach to veterans and remove some of the 
significant obstacles veterans must overcome to access their benefits. 
This is particularly true in rural areas, which Mr. McIntyre 
represents. The bill also contains performance measures to ensure that 
grant recipients are properly fulfilling the requirements of the 
program.

The bill is supported by the American Legion, Military Officers 
Association, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, 
National County Veteran Service Officers, National Organization of 
Veterans Advocates, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.