---
---

# TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY ACT OF 2008
## `9b20676a93a5828a9f306d71983b198a`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 10 April 2008`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, today, Congress took a major step toward 
making a remarkable difference in the lives of some of our Nation's 
most deserving citizens: our soldiers and our children with brain 
injuries.

I commend our colleagues, Congressmen Pascrell and Platts, as well as 
my friend and cosponsor in the Senate, Senator Hatch, on all they have 
done to achieve passage of this legislation. It is an important and 
timely bill that helps an especially deserving group of people.



Traumatic brain injuries have become the signature wound of the war 
in Iraq. Up to two-thirds of our wounded soldiers may have suffered 
such injuries.

In the civilian population here at home, an unacceptably large number 
of children from birth to age 14 experience traumatic brain injuries 
approximately 475,000 a year and some of the most frequent of these 
injuries are to children under the age of 5. In Massachusetts alone, 
more than 40,000 individuals experience these injuries each year.

As a result of these injuries, over 5.3 million Americans are now 
living with a permanent disability. Today, we have taken another step 
toward ensuring that these citizens and their families will receive the 
best services we can provide.

The legislation reauthorizes grants that assist States, territories, 
and the District of Columbia in establishing and expanding coordinated 
systems of community-based services and supports for persons with such 
injuries.

The legislation also reauthorizes an important provision, the 
Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Traumatic Brain Injury 
Program. This program, enacted by Congress in 2000, has become 
essential because persons with these injuries have an array of needs 
beyond treatment and health care. Protection and advocacy services 
include assistance in returning to work, finding a place to live, 
obtaining supports and services such as attendant care and assistive 
technology, and obtaining appropriate mental health, substance abuse, 
and rehabilitation services.

Often these persons especially our returning veterans must remain in 
extremely expensive institutions far longer than necessary, because the 
community-based supports and services they need are not available, even 
though they can lead to reduced government expenditures, increased 
productivity, greater independence and community involvement. Those who 
provide such assistance must have special skills, and their work is 
often time-intensive.

The legislation also allocates funds for CDC programs that provide 
important information and data on injury prevention of these injuries. 
A recent Institute of Medicine report demonstrated that these programs 
work. Their benefit is obvious, and we must do all we can to expand 
this appropriation in the years ahead to meet the urgent and growing 
need for this assistance.

A recent report by the Institute of Medicine calls the current TBI 
programs an ''overall success.'' It states that ''there is considerable 
value in providing funding,'' and ''it is worrisome that the modestly 
budgeted TBI Program continues to be vulnerable to budget cuts.''

Current estimates show that the Federal Government spends less than 
$3 per brain injury survivor on research and services. As the IOM study 
suggests, this program must be able to expand, so that each State will 
have the resources needed to maintain vital services and advocacy for 
the large number of Americans who sustain such injuries each year.

Enactment of this bipartisan legislation will bring us a giant step 
closer to strengthening these vital programs for these deserving 
individuals and their families.
