---
---

# TRIBUTE TO TRACY DELLA VECCHIA
## `9b25b9f60af3335b624e352d3adaacdc`
`Mr. SKELTON — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, as our men and women in uniform are 
deployed all over the world, they leave behind parents, siblings, 
spouses, children, and friends. It has


come to my attention that Tracy Della Vecchia has formed a network in 
order for families of those deployed in the United States Marine Corps 
to stay connected and informed.

When Operation Iraqi Freedom began, Tracy's son, Derrick Johnson, was 
in marine basic training. Like so many others, he was deployed to Iraq 
after training. Not long into Derrick's tour Tracy met several other 
mothers with concerns similar to her own, and it was after this meeting 
that she decided to create www.marineparents.com. The website was 
designed for others to reach out through chat rooms in order to post 
questions and get answers from other families that have been in the 
same situations and circumstances. Since creating this forum in 2003, 
Tracy has spent countless hours organizing, sorting, and sending care 
packages to marines who are serving in Iraq.

Tracy Della Vecchia formed this organization with the intention of 
making a difference, and the care packages she has mailed have done 
just that. Recently, she sent hundreds of AA batteries for personal CD 
players; however, the batteries were put to use in night vision goggles 
when the unit's supply was exhausted. Personal hygiene and first aid 
items have also been included in care packages; however, they were used 
in combat situations to ease the pain of the wounded.

Madam Speaker, I know the Members of the House will join me in 
thanking Tracy Della Vecchia for all that she does for the United 
States Marine Corps and the men and women who are currently serving 
overseas.
