---
---

# TRIBUTE TO SGT. RICHARD E. REYES
## `9b29a1f0719e2b5479fd1b88d9359a32`
`Mr. COSTA — 3 October 2008`

---


Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a true patriot 
serving in our military, Sergeant Richard E. Reyes. Sgt. Reyes serves 
proudly in the United States Marine Corps, and hails from Sanger, 
California. He has recently been named the USO Service Marine of the 
Year, and I want to send my sincere congratulations.

Sgt. Reyes served as team leader with Company C, 1st Reconnaissance 
Battalion, Regimental Combat Team 6, which is stationed in Iraq. While 
serving in the Persian Gulf, Sgt. Reyes led his team on 70 combat 
missions and was instrumental in the capture of over 35 insurgents. 
During combat operations in July 2007, his platoon's base came under 
enemy attack with small arms and machinegun fire. Located just 250 
meters from the ambush, Sgt. Reyes maneuvered onto a nearby rooftop, 
identified the insurgents, and relayed the enemy's location to the 
platoon commander.

He was still undetected by the enemy, and he and his team engaged the 
insurgent group with high explosive rounds, which reduced enemy fire on 
the base, but exposed his position on the rooftop. Sgt. Reyes was 
determined to end this engagement, which had been going on for 45 
minutes. He then moved his team onto another rooftop and single-
handedly directed attacks by U.S. jets and helicopters. After several 
attempts, the enemy's position was destroyed.

Just 3 days later, Sgt. Reyes again demonstrated superb leadership 
and courage when he engaged an insurgent from the rooftop of his 
platoon's base and directed a counter-attack. During the firefight, 
Sgt. Reyes and his team maintained their position and coordinated a 
diversion using artillery smoke. As a result of his initiative, 
perseverance, and dedication to duty, an additional two insurgents were 
captured in this engagement.

Sgt. Reyes is a Sanger High School graduate, and while he was there, 
he was a three sport athlete. He played for his school's water polo 
team in the fall, he wrestled in the winter, and swam in the spring. 
Following graduation, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps at 
age 17. Sgt. Reyes is the son of Rosa and Gustavo Reyes, and he has two 
brothers and two sisters.

On behalf of all my colleagues in the House and Senate, I would like 
to congratulate Sgt. Richard Reyes for being named the USO


Service Marine of the Year, and thank him for his bravery on the 
battlefield. He truly exemplifies the courageous service of our men and 
women in uniform, and especially our United States Marines.
