# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9b2c229f5c4e69a7a55bf4a0c199bb8c`
`Mrs. MYRICK — 13 February 2007`

---


Mrs. MYRICK. Mr. Speaker, Iraq is just one battlefield in this 
multigenerational struggle against radical Islamist jihadists, but it 
is a very important battlefield.

This is the beginning stage of a multigenerational worldwide struggle 
that will last throughout our lives and likely our children's lives.

It is hard to accept that the safety and security that most Americans 
felt in the 1980s and the 1990s was just a smokescreen while the 
Islamist extremists planned and carried out a one-sided war in other 
parts of the world.

On September 11, we saw the unthinkable: airplanes flown into 
buildings, thousands of innocent people killed, and the killers 
claiming that this was done because God desired it. Some people still 
do not understand how anyone could rationalize such disgusting acts.

For the past few years, and specifically in the past month, I have 
joined with some of my colleagues to learn about the true nature of the 
threat that we face from this jihadist ideology. This ideology is 
preached by the likes of Osama bin Laden, Moqtada al-Sadr, Hassan 
Nasrallah, and the ayatollahs in Iran.

Our presence in Iraq did not make us vulnerable to these killers. 
There were many previous worldwide attacks before America was attacked 
on September 11 and before we entered Iraq.

We face this threat because we refuse to succumb to live in a world 
where women cannot speak, as I speak now, without risk of death. We 
face this threat because we seek a world where people of all religions 
and races and sexes are entitled to the same rights. We cannot retreat.

If we pull out, there is no doubt that Iraq will become a safe haven 
for al Qaeda, Hezbollah and other terrorist groups to plan and carry 
out attacks on unbelievers or infidels. How do I know this? Because 
they tell us. They told us before 9/11, but we did not pay attention. 
They tell us all the time that they will not stop until all lands from 
India to Morocco and Spain to Russia are governed by radical Islamic 
law.

In 1938, Adolf Hitler told us what he was going to do, and we refused 
to pay attention. We cannot afford to repeat that historical mistake.

This is not a Democrat and Republican issue. Our security is an 
American issue, and I hope we are going to start to act as Americans, 
like the American people expect us and want us to do.

We must understand that we are fighting the first battles of a war 
against radical Islamist ideology that will be waged for the next 50, 
maybe 100 years.

Mistakes have been made and more mistakes will be made in the future. 
War is never easy; nor is it predictable. But if the people of the 
United States understand the true nature of the threat that we all face 
and Congress realizes that this war against jihadism will be fought in 
various forms around the world for at least the next 50 years, then we 
can make informed policy decisions that will help us in the future.

We must plan now for the future. We need to unite as a country behind 
this struggle against radical Islamic jihadists.

It is downright irresponsible to tell our troops that we support you 
but do not support the mission that you are fighting. What message does 
that send to our troops? It may score political points, but it hurts 
our troops who are over there fighting to defend us and our right to be 
here and speak freely.

This resolution does not deal with the larger problem of radical 
Islamic jihadists. So I strongly urge a ''no'' vote. We must support 
our troops in the field by supporting their mission. I support our 
troops wholeheartedly and believe their mission is just and necessary 
for the security interests of our country.

The world our children and grandchildren will inherit will be a 
better place because we had the courage to stand up today to fight 
these battles.