# None
## `9b2d5c74ac2385d9388ccb5ac31b4ca8`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I would just like to make a couple more points to 
support you before I take off.

I don't know if you have seen this. I am sure you have as a 
distinguished member of the Armed Services Committee in your fifth year 
already. The memo from the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Ortiz) chairman of 
the Subcommittee on Readiness, and Mr. Abercrombie, House Armed 
Services Committee, Air and Land Force Subcommittee, these are the 
folks in Congress on the ground. They submitted a couple of days ago 
for Members of Congress, editors, defense writers and other interested 
parties a memo on military readiness.

I want to say a couple of things that I think are very important on 
where this war has put our military readiness, an elective war in Iraq 
as opposed to a real threat to our national interest, and the situation 
it has put us in. And our distinguished gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. 
Kaptur) who sits on the Defense Committee could probably speak better 
than I can on this.

Short-term readiness in this memo addresses the needs of soldiers on 
the field today. Iraq and Afghanistan have been marked by a lack of 
adequate funding for equipment, from effective Kevlar vests and helmets 
to uparmored Humvees which are better able to protect our personnel 
from roadside bombs. Compounding the lack of equipment for both 
deployed and nondeployed units is the fact that if nondeployed units 
don't have the same equipment they will use in combat, their training 
is less than optimum.

So if you don't have a Kevlar vest to train in when you actually are 
in the field and have to wear one, it is a much different scenario, and 
you may not have the proper training you need.

Long-term readiness, military preparation for any challenges our 
Nation may face tomorrow, that encompasses everything from manpower 
training and equipment to preposition stores of military equipment 
strategically located around the world that, the Government 
Accountability Office reports, have been deeply ransacked for Iraqi 
operations.

Check this out. Roughly half of all of the ground equipment in the 
United States Army is in Iraq or Afghanistan, nearly half the ground 
equipment that the Army owns. Since the start of the war, the Army has 
lost nearly 2,000 wheeled vehicles and more than 100 armored vehicles. 
Harsh desert climate, mountain terrain, virtually continuous combat and 
the physical weight of extra armor is wearing out equipment in Iraq and 
Afghanistan at up to nine times the normal rate.

The Army GAO report details that the Army has not been keeping 
accurate track of what they have or what they need to reset the force, 
nor can they provide sufficient detail for Congress to provide 
effective oversight.

The National Guard, between 75,000 and 100,000 pieces of National 
Guard equipment worth nearly $2 billion are now in Iraq and Afghanistan 
instead of National Guard armories around the U.S.; and National Guard 
units are left with about one-third of their equipment. These urgent 
equipment shortages hit especially hard on the military's ability to 
train Guard and active Army units, and they are forced to prepare and 
train for deployment with minimal equipment.

We have a real problem where the American Army is not ready should we 
have another incident around the world, or should someone, heaven 
forbid, attack the United States, or should we have another Katrina. 
For this President to talk, Mr. Speaker, about protecting the troops 
and saving the troops and being on the side of the troops, this is 
being on the side of the troops.



Mr. Speaker, I am going to yield to the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. 
Kaptur), the dean of the Ohio Democratic delegation.