# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9b38113c37f3a7b5309b99e79ffb612b`
`Mr. HINOJOSA — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HINOJOSA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 
63. The State of Texas has a proud history of military service. 
Thousands of Texans have fought with distinction in every conflict this 
country has entered.

Hundreds of my constituents are currently serving in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They are willing to leave behind their families and 
friends to risk their lives in service to their country. Many will 
never return home. Many will come home maimed and injured.

I want to read the names of the young people from the 15th District 
of Texas who have given their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan: Darrell 
Shipp, Benito Ramirez, Javier Marin, Julio Alvarez, Gary Moore, Tomas 
Garces, Mark Anthony Zapata, Juan Calderon, Christopher Ramirez, Dustin 
Sekula, Juan Garza, James Kesinger, Mitchell Mutz, John Russell, 
Quinton Gertson, Christopher Kilpatrick, Tina Priest, and Daniel 
Galvan.

I know how much their families and friends have grieved at their 
loss. I have spoken to their parents and spouses and have attended many 
of their funerals. We are all so very proud of their military service 
and know they did their very best.

However, as an elected Representative of the United States 
Government, I have a responsibility to make sure that the sacrifices of 
these brave men and women were not in vain.



I have a responsibility to see that more Americans will not be 
sacrificed unnecessarily. I have supported the funding to give our 
military the body armor, the equipment and training they need, and I 
will continue to see that they have whatever they need. But I will not 
support an administration policy that puts more troops in harm's way, 
with no apparent end in sight and with no clear goals on how to win the 
fight.

In 2002, I stood in this well and I spoke on that resolution giving 
the President permission to go to war, and I voted against going to war 
with Iraq because I didn't believe we had all the information we needed 
on Iraq's nuclear capabilities and weapons of mass destruction and its 
support for terrorism. I was concerned that the President had not 
convinced the 39 countries who had supported us in the previous war 
with Iraq. I was disappointed that the President did not have an exit 
plan after we defeated Iraq. And I was disappointed that the President 
would not put in the budget what we were going to spend on that war.

No one denies that Saddam Hussein was a cruel dictator who brutally 
oppressed his people, and I am glad that the Iraqis are free of this 
tyranny. But the Bush administration did not have accurate information 
then, and I don't believe they have an accurate picture of the 
situation today.

Our troops are now caught in the middle of a civil war between 
religious groups that have hated each other for centuries. There is no 
defined enemy and no clear battle lines.

The task of imposing and growing democracy in a place where it has 
never been is not the job of our military. It must come from the 
political will of the Iraqi people. Only the Iraqis can decide whether 
they want to put aside centuries of discord and come together to create 
a stable, democratic country where the rights of every group is 
recognized. The Iraqi Government must take responsibility for its own 
future.

After more than 4 years, the U.S. is not safer because of our efforts 
in Iraq. By dividing our resources, we have allowed the Taliban to 
reemerge in Afghanistan and have given al Qaeda a strong foothold that 
it never had before in Iraq. Syria and Iran have gained influence 
throughout the entire region.

We have spent hundreds of billions of dollars at the expense of 
critical programs at home like education, health care and homeland 
security. Our military is severely strained with troops on their third 
and fourth tours of Iraq. Units are being deployed, either understaffed 
or with new personnel, that has decreased unit cohesiveness, 
proficiency and morale. Equipment is worn out and our readiness to deal 
with an additional crisis is in jeopardy.

Unfortunately, most of his generals disagree. The distinguished 
members of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group disagree, and more 
importantly, the American people disagree.

I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting H. Con. Res. 63 and 
opposing the President's decision to send more troops to Iraq.

We have spent hundreds of billions of dollars at the expense of 
critical programs at home like education, health care and Homeland 
Security. Our military is severely strained with troops on their third 
and fourth tours of Iraq. Units are being deployed either understaffed 
or with new personnel that has decreased unit cohesiveness, 
proficiency, and morale. Equipment is worn out and our readiness to 
deal with an additional crisis is in jeopardy.