# BUDGET RESOLUTION ADJUSTMENTS
## `9b44ea784bbaa48949c9177ad47e4c90`
`Mr. CONRAD â€” 14 June 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, section 207(f) of S. Con. Res. 21, the 
2008 Budget resolution, directs the chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee to make appropriate adjustments in allocations, aggregates, 
discretionary spending limits, and other levels of new budget authority 
and outlays to reflect the difference between the budgetary impact


of enacted legislation making supplemental appropriations for fiscal 
year 2007 and the corresponding levels assumed in S. Con. Res. 21. On 
May 25, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and 
Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007, became Public Law 110-28.

As enacted, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina 
Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007, contains 
changes in new budget authority, outlays, revenues, and other levels 
that differ from those assumed in the 2008 budget resolution. In total, 
Public Law 110-28 contains approximately $4.2 billion less in budget 
authority both in fiscal year 2007 and over fiscal years 2007 through 
2012. It also contains $810 million less in outlays in fiscal year 2007 
and approximately $4 billion less in outlays over fiscal years 2007 
through 2012. In addition, it contains $54 million less in on-budget 
revenues over fiscal years 2007 through 2012 than was assumed in the 
2008 budget resolution.

Most of the new budget authority and outlays contained in Public Law 
110-28 was designated as an emergency pursuant to section 204 of the 
2008 budget resolution. Those amounts are not counted for purposes of 
budget enforcement. As a result, the adjustments made for budget 
enforcement purposes differ from the total amount of the difference 
between Public Law 110-28 and the corresponding levels assumed in S. 
Con. Res. 21.

For purposes of the allocation provided to the Senate Appropriations 
Committee pursuant to section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act and 
the discretionary spending limits provided pursuant to section 207(b) 
of the 2008 Budget Resolution, new budget authority is decreased by 
$188 million in fiscal year 2007 and new budget authority and outlays 
are increased by $1 million each in fiscal year 2008. Similar 
adjustments will be made for purposes of enforcing the 311 aggregates 
in the Senate for new budget authority and outlays in 2007 and 2008. 
The 311 aggregates additionally will be adjusted for differences in 
debt service resulting from Public Law 110-28 versus what was assumed 
in the 2008 budget resolution.

For purposes of enforcing the 311 aggregates in the Senate, total on-
budget revenues are adjusted downward by $17 million in fiscal year 
2008 and by a total of $54 million over fiscal years 2008 through 2012, 
while off-budget Social Security revenues are adjusted upward by $17 
million in fiscal year 2008 and by a total of $54 million over fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012.

Finally, I am making a clarifying and technical adjustment to the 
Senate Committee allocations provided pursuant to section 302 of the 
Congressional Budget Act and printed on pages 126 through 128 of House 
Report 110-153, the report accompanying S. Con. Res 21.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a set of tables 
which show the revised allocations, aggregates, and other levels for 
use in enforcing the 2008 budget resolution.