---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9b4ddf64f387750fbffe2182fa00d7b7`
`Mr. BACA — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. BACA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2642.

This bill calls for a responsible redeployment from Iraq; and forces 
the Administration to answer for its actions.

The cost of this war continues to devastate America.

This bill includes $96.6 billion in funding, but not without 
accountability.

This bill includes funds to equip our troops. You would not have a 
surgeon perform a surgery without proper tools; we must not send our 
patriotic Americans to war without the proper equipment.

This bill will increase transparency in our relationship with Iraq, 
and redirects the voice of America back to Congress, not the 
Administration, and pass on the cost of future reconstruction of Iraq 
back to the hands of the Iraqi people.

I believe our troops and their families should be our first priority.

The cost of this war comes in many forms, including unexpected costs 
for our military families. Just like World War II veterans, our 
soldiers returning from overseas will now have a GI bill that keeps 
America's promise of an education to them.

With the costs of the war rising, the costs of oil skyrocketing, and 
the number of foreclosures hitting emergency levels, many working 
families are facing uphill battles. Congress must not just stand by and 
watch.

This bill includes emergency provisions for harmful Medicaid cuts and 
an extension on the devastated unemployment compensation program for 
working families.

From my District alone, this war has cut short the lives of 13 young 
men and has brought back hundreds of injured soldiers.

The cost of this war is too high both at home and overseas; our 
families are hanging on by a thread. I urge my colleagues to bring our 
troops home and support H.R. 2642.