---
---

# FINAL POST
## `9b4f0e956a0894edcbebb4475997e5af`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 18 September 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring to 
the attention of the Members of the House of Representatives and the 
American public an article written by Chris Raymond for the The 
Director magazine. The article is a great description of what goes on 
at The Port Mortuary at Delaware's Dover Air Force Base, the first stop 
on the final journey for those who have given their life in defense of 
this Nation.











 [From The Director, July 2007]
















 Final Post














 (By Chris Raymond)




 The Port Mortuary at Delaware's Dover Air Force Base 


 exemplifies this nation's highest ideals and those underlying 


 the funeral service profession as it cares for the men and 


 women that sacrifice their lives in defense of our country--


 Chris Raymond.



 Show me the manner in which a nation cares for its dead, 


 and I will measure with mathematical exactness the tender 


 mercies of its people, their respect for the laws of the land 


 and their loyalty to high ideals--William Gladstone, British 


 Prime Minister.



 On this night, the bodies wait quietly in the darkness, 


 their caskets in a long line, positioned with military 


 precision before a large steel garage door. A massive U.S. 


 flag, perhaps 30 by 20 feet, hangs silently above them. In 


 the morning, this flag will offer one final salute to each 


 fallen soldier as the staff of the Dover Air Force Base Port 


 Mortuary drapes each casket with a smaller American flag, a 


 stack of which hang ready on a rack near the exit for this 


 purpose, before carefully wheeling each outside onto a broad 


 cement landing. From there, vehicles will transport each of 


 these meticulously, lovingly prepared men and women to the 


 planes that will fly them home to their grieving families and 


 the military honors each has earned.



 On March 23, 2007, U.S. Army Sergeant First Class Cedric 


 Thomas kneeled before the simple urn containing the cremated 


 remains of U.S. Army Specialist Ross McGinnis during his 


 funeral at Arlington National Cemetery. Resting his hand atop 


 the urn, Thomas, wearing his full uniform, hung his head for 


 a few moments, saying his silent goodbyes, lost in his 


 thoughts. Rising, Thomas offered one final salute to the 19-


 year-old who sacrificed his life so he could live.



 A few months earlier, on December 4, 2006, McGinnis manned 


 a machine gun atop a Humvee as he, Thomas and three other 


 soldiers patrolled the streets of Adhamiyah, Iraq. From a 


 rooftop, an enemy insurgent tossed a grenade at their truck. 


 Whizzing past McGinnis, the grenade fell through the Humvee's 


 hatch and lodged next to a radio. According to a later 


 account written by Rodney Sherman and published in The 


 Clarion News, Thomas recalls McGinnis shouting to his four 


 comrades: ''Grenade! It's in the truck!''



 Thomas also told the newspaper, ''[McGinnis] had time to 


 jump out of the truck.''



 McGinnis did not desert his comrades, however. Instead, he 


 jumped through the hatch and threw his body atop the grenade. 


 Upon detonation, McGinnis died instantly. While wounded, the 


 four other soldiers survived, thanks entirely to the heroic 


 action of a teenager from Knox, Pennsylvania.





 U.S. Army Specialist Ross McGinnis has been posthumously 


 nominated for receipt of the Medal of Honor, the nation's 


 highest military award and an honor bestowed upon only 


 3,460 other members of the U.S. armed services since its 


 inception shortly before the Civil War. During his funeral 


 at Arlington, McGinnis received full military honors as 


 three of the four people he saved in the Humvee that day 


 paid their respects, after receiving special permission to 


 attend the funeral before returning to the war zone.



 Undoubtedly, the staff of the Dover Port Mortuary prepared 


 the remains of U.S. Army Specialist Ross McGinnis during his 


 journey home and before his ultimate interment at Arlington 


 because Dover processes all of our deceased soldiers. Yet, 


 despite his heroism, not one of the roughly 1,200 other 


 military dead that Dover handles each year receive any less 


 care, respect and honor than McGinnis did--regardless of rank 


 and regardless of chosen method or location of interment.



 That is simply how the Dover Port Mortuary operates, every 


 day.



 A long bus ride from Washington, DC, to Dover, Delaware, 


 eventually delivers me at a security checkpoint just within 


 the fenced-in, razor-wired confines of Dover Air Force Base. 


 After spending more than two hours chatting with the entire 


 NFDA Executive Board, staff members Christine Pepper, John 


 Fitch and Lesley Witter, and former NFDA At-large Rep. 


 Charlie Hastings, who organized this private tour in his home 


 state, the onboard appearance of a military official 


 demanding we surrender our drivers licenses suddenly sobers 


 me.



 ''Oh yeah,'' I recall. ''Several months ago, I had to 


 provide my Social Security number so Dover could conduct 


 whatever background checks it requires.''



 Suddenly, the serious nature of an entirely different way 


 of life floods my thoughts. This is no tour-bus lark to visit 


 the sights of Niagara Falls or the Grand Canyon, a feeling 


 reinforced when I see a massive steel barrier descend into 


 the ground so the bus can pass after receiving clearance.



 Stepping off the bus, I enter a modern, recently built 


 facility. As the group gathers within the lobby, I gaze at a 


 massive, curved display just inside, constructed of polished 


 gray stone and inscribed across the top with the words 


 ''Dignity, Honor and Respect.'' The sound of falling water 


 fills my ears from somewhere nearby as I read the many panels 


 beneath these words, each listing an ''incident'' and the 


 number of dead the Dover Port Mortuary handled each time, 


 dating back to the 1960s. The astronauts of space shuttle 


 Challenger; the victims of the Jim Jones tragedy in Guyana in 


 the late 1970s, when I was a kid; many soldiers from Desert 


 Shield/Desert Storm; the remains of Lt. Michael Blassie, the 


 unidentified Air Force pilot representing the Vietnam War at 


 the Tomb of the Unknowns for 14 years until his 


 identification in 1998 and reinterment; the soldiers that 


 died during the failed attempt to rescue the hostages in Iran 


 during the Carter administration; and countless other members 


 of the U.S. armed services.



 A guy my age, dressed in a brown polo and multi-pocket 


 khakis, begins addressing our group, welcoming us to Dover. 


 Although William Zwicharowski--''Zig'' as we would come to 


 address him--is a licensed funeral director, I can 


 immediately tell he is also military; he stands ramrod 


 straight even when he's being ''casual.'' Noting that the 


 tour we are about to receive is extremely rare given the 


 sensitive nature of Dover's operations, Zig proceeds to 


 explain that the present facility was built about three years 


 ago. While Dover's mortuary operations date back decades, 


 some authorities felt the former facility looked like a 


 ''warehouse'' after the attention given by the nation to 


 victims of the 9/11 terrorist attack on the Pentagon. Even if 


 only one grieving family visits the Dover facility each year, 


 these powers realized that this family deserves to know that 


 their son or daughter received the highest level of care and 


 respect, something the ad hoc nature of the former facility 


 did not convey.



 Subsequently, Congress authorized the appropriation of $30 


 million for design and construction of the present Dover Port 


 Mortuary installation. No other mortuary ''model'' to emulate 


 existing anywhere else on earth, Zig and his staff helped 


 shape the ultimate design and function of the current 


 facility--the Charles C. Carson Center for Mortuary Affairs. 


 As the tour progressed, I would grow to appreciate the 


 government's wisdom of listening to the practitioner's point 


 of view because every detail in the new facility--from the 


 choice of equipment to the layout of the building itself--


 reflects the expertise and experience of people that know how 


 to care for the dead while also serving the living.



 After fielding our many initial questions, Zig beckons the 


 group to walk around behind the incident display in the 


 lobby. While certainly not hidden in any way, I am amazed 


 to discover a large, comfortably appointed atrium just 


 beyond. A soaring glass canopy overarches many ornamental 


 trees and colorful flowers and plants surrounding a 


 central bubbling water pond. The effect is soothing, even 


 comforting, and again reflects the practitioner's insight: 


 serving the living. Along the perimeter of the atrium, I 


 notice numerous offices, some labeled ''Counseling,'' 


 ''Chaplain'' or ''Meditation.''



 Zig leads us to the Escort Briefing room. Inside, set up 


 for the next morning, nine chairs at one end of the room hold 


 green folders and clear-plastic bags. On each folder, the 


 name of a deceased soldier. Within each bag, their personal 


 effects. Suddenly, the body count in Iraq I hear each morning 


 on my local news becomes personal. Those are more than just 


 numbers; each represents someone's child, spouse, sibling, 


 friend. And nine more of them or their representatives will 


 sit in these chairs tomorrow with the pain of loss numbing 


 their senses and try to follow the details about a far-away 


 incident that took their loved ones as they view information 


 projected from a laptop computer onto a screen at the front 


 of the room. Some will find comfort in such knowledge. Others 


 will caress perhaps the odd personal effect found in one of 


 the plastic bags. A comb. A calling card. A tattered photo. 


 Still others will hear or see nothing, numb from the 


 immediacy of forever-loss.



 The roughly 12 people working full-time at Dover understand 


 this, however. For them, the true essence of what funeral 


 directing is all about reigns paramount, which has nothing to 


 do with ''efficiency'' or ''volume'' or getting one family 


 ''out'' because another is scheduled to arrive in 15 


 minutes--the buzzwords too often filling The Director and 


 your other trade publications. No, the mantra of these 


 dedicated men and women is consistency; the belief that every 


 deceased armed services member passing through their facility 


 deserves complete, unwavering adherence to the words 


 inscribed atop the incident display in the foyer: Dignity, 


 Honor and Respect. Zig and his staff hold zero tolerance for 


 even one ''mishap.'' As he would later convey during the tour 


 about Dover's meticulous handling of every soldier's personal 


 effects: ''It is not okay for us to say we 'only lost one 


 item last year.' You try telling that to a family.''



 Thus, whatever transpires within the Escort Briefing room 


 the next morning, I know that these dedicated professionals 


 will do whatever is necessary to afford every survivor with 


 whatever comfort they require, for however long it takes.



 The new Port Mortuary at Dover Air Force Base was designed 


 for both war- and peacetime. Given the U.S. military presence 


 in Iraq, the facility obviously now operates on a wartime 


 status, and Zig and roughly a dozen others work at the 


 mortuary full-time. When the volume of deceased military 


 personnel threatens to grow greater than this crew can 


 handle--which they can generally anticipate courtesy of CNN 


 within 48 hours--Dover activates other professionals from 


 within the military, as well as civilians, to assist.



 The process of caring for a fallen soldier is extremely 


 complex, but the Port Mortuary has an amazing system in place 


 and continually strives to handle each case more effectively. 


 Medical examiners want each body returned from the field of 


 battle almost exactly as each man or woman fell, without any 


 live ammunition or grenades, in order to determine if gear 


 improvements are possible to save future lives. This possibly 


 overlooked attention to detail recently resulted in an 


 advancement in each soldier's body armor when Dover's 


 personnel noticed a growing number of deaths due to neck 


 wounds. Insurgent snipers had identified a vulnerability in 


 American military armor--the exposed neck--and consciously 


 aimed their rifles at this spot. Because the staff at Dover 


 recognized this, however, American forces now wear a neck 


 collar, saving an untold number of lives.



 The grim fact remains, however, that the Port Mortuary at 


 Dover exists primarily to process those that die defending 


 our country. This begins with the transportation of each body 


 from overseas to another large cement area at the rear of the 


 facility. Transported within aluminum transfer cases, the 


 remains arrive encased in ice and in great condition, usually 


 within 48 hours of death. Again, I feel impressed and oddly 


 proud when Zig relates the solemnity with which Dover's staff 


 receives each case. These are no mere factory workers 


 handling anonymous, insignificant packages along some 


 conveyor belt, I think.



 Moreover, despite helping to design and build a state-of-


 the-art facility, Zig acknowledges that there is always room 


 for improvement in the care he and his staff provides. Thus, 


 their practitioner-practical suggestions have also resulted 


 in several innovations--most of them little things with 


 profound impact. The aluminum transfer cases, for instance, 


 once bore only two handles along each long side, forcing 


 several pallbearers to ''pretend'' to carry each case and, 


 frankly, forcing others to handle by themselves a heavy 


 load. Because Zig suggested adding a few more handles to 


 each case, these reused transfer cases (once sterilized) 


 now sport the necessary number of handles. Dover's staff 


 also suggested adding insulation to the inside of each 


 transfer case to improve the cooling power of the ice 


 preserving the remains during their journey to Dover.



 Once received, the staff at Dover initiates a comprehensive 


 system to track every aspect of a body's progress through the 


 facility. Nearly 200 computers, utilizing a proprietary 


 software program, gather and communicate with each other 


 every detail concerning each particular deceased soldier. 


 Each transfer case is logged in electronically using handheld 


 bar-coding units. (The reason for this will become clear 


 later in this article.)



 At this point, each body is scanned in the ''EOD Room,'' 


 which checks for the presence of live explosive ordnance. 


 Again, I begin to appreciate the serious nature of the work 


 these people perform as I glance at the construction of these 


 twin chambers. The doors




 and walls consist of one-foot-thick, steel-reinforced 


 concrete, which Zig tells me can withstand the blast of one 


 pound of C-4 explosive. Later, I ask him why bodies aren't 


 scanned for dangerous ordnance before transfer to Dover.



 He smiles and says, ''I wish I had a dollar for every time 


 I hear that question... I don't know.''



 Next, each body enters the ''Photography/Bar-coding'' area. 


 Here every aspect of the deceased soldier whether consisting 


 of a full body or merely a body part--is digitally recorded, 


 assigned a unique bar code and tracked electronically. When/


 if a body's viscera are removed, Dover even tracks them to 


 ensure their eventual return to the proper body. Such is the 


 dedication Dover provides to ensure that our country's 


 military dead receive the mathematically exacting tender 


 mercies and loyalty to high ideals each has earned.



 Fingerprinting of the deceased occurs next, performed 


 entirely digitally in less than 10 minutes and again intended 


 to ensure that no mistakes occur while each deceased soldier 


 remains entrusted to the care of Dover's staff. Offering 


 another practitioner-practical suggestion, Zig notes that he 


 also recommends digital ''foot printing'' of each body. While 


 yet uncommon, he explains that the skin patterns on the 


 bottom of our feet are as unique as the pads on our 


 fingertips, and while the latter is too often subject to 


 damage, the boots issued to military personnel afford 


 excellent tissue preservation, even in cases involving fire, 


 which can later provide positive identification.



 The sophistication of the equipment is impressive, as is 


 the networking that enables an operator to access pertinent 


 information at any time. In fact, this system even helped Zig 


 identify from a small body part one of the terrorists that 


 hijacked the plane that hit the Pentagon on 9/11.



 Someone in the group asks what happened to the terrorist's 


 body part. Was it returned? Was it discarded?



 A shadow passes across Zig's face and his gaze grows 


 distant. ''We decided we are better than them,'' he says 


 quietly. ''We returned the body part in a casket to his 


 homeland.''



 He leads us toward the next station within the mortuary, 


 which focuses on dental records. As we walk down a hallway, I 


 noticed a framed document on a wall: ''Nerve Agent Symptoms 


 and Antidote.''



 ''Truly a different way of life,'' I think again, not for 


 the last time, before noticing 16 tan-plastic gurneys lined 


 neatly along a wall. I recall Zig mentioning earlier that at 


 the start of the Iraq War, Dover utilized almost everyone of 


 its 75 gurneys.



 Within the Dental Station, another impressive device takes 


 digital X-rays of each body. Again, because of the 


 sophisticated computer network at the Port Mortuary, 


 personnel can quickly match these post-mortem scans with 


 existing anti-mortem X-rays, making positive identification 


 possible if not already verified in some other way. It was 


 this device that helped the staff at Dover identify one of 


 the 9/11 victims from only three teeth and a piece of the 


 victim's jawbone.



 Another method that Dover uses to identify the remains in 


 its care involves a full-body X-ray. If a decedent remains 


 unidentified at this point, this X-ray enables medical 


 examiners to identify unique qualities within the body, such 


 as healed broken bones. By asking a family if '' 'Johnny' 


 once broke his arm as a teenager,'' Dover staff have another 


 tool that helps them make positive identification.



 It is important to remember, however, that too often, the 


 body is not intact. In such cases, a full-body X-ray allows 


 medical examiners to reassociate a severed limb with a torso 


 by matching the ends of bones, joints, etc.



 Finally, Zig shows us one more high-tech gizmo in this area 


 of the mortuary: a GE ''virtual autopsy'' machine. Similar in 


 appearance (to my untrained eye) to a CAT-scan device, this 


 unit records digital information about the decedent's 


 physiology in case it is needed.



 We enter the ''Autopsy Suite'' next, a room even larger 


 than the lobby we first visited. Late in the evening at this 


 point, the work finished, the dozen or so autopsy stations 


 along the perimeter sit clean, spotless, ready for whoever 


 will need one next.



 Gazing about the room, I feel my hair tussled as I step 


 into a breeze from overhead. Numerous vents pockmark the 


 ceiling, their louvers rattling, creating a state of constant 


 white noise. Zig smiles, explaining the importance of proper 


 ventilation in this room and that the goal is ''windy,'' that 


 the air is circulated numerous times each hour and that it is 


 ''obviously not returned [to the room].''



 The ''Embalming Suite'' is nearly identical to the previous 


 room in terms of setup. Each of the dozen or so stations sits 


 neatly ready for use. Three Portiboy Mark V machines sit near 


 each embalming table, as does a large spool of wire, used to 


 rewire skull fractures. Along one wall, shelves hold the 


 requisite practitioner equipment: body bags, coveralls, 


 pants, caps, personal protection equipment, all in a range of 


 sizes. Above Embalming Station #4, a large American flag 


 hangs on the wall. In a cupboard rests a broad selection of 


 embalming chemicals in a variety of strengths from numerous 


 manufacturers. The choice of fluid type is up to each 


 embalmer, but Dover generally uses a weaker solution in the 


 head and a strong mix in the body because, as Zig says, ''You 


 never know where a body is going.''



 This comment might sound odd given all that the staff at 


 Dover does to positively identify each body and/or body part, 


 but it stems from the electronic bar coding noted earlier, 


 revealing a second important reason for its use. Not only 


 does this method accurately track every item associated with 


 a deceased soldier, but it also reinforces the staffs 


 commitment to treating each case as if it is the single most-


 important one that each of these professionals will ever 


 handle. Stripped of name and rank, digital bar coding ensures 


 that every set of remains receives the highest level of 


 dignity, honor and respect.



 Before leaving this room, Zig further clarifies the Port 


 Mortuary's dedication to caring for the dead while serving 


 the living by noting that every bright-red medical-waste box 


 is X-rayed just in case some personal effect, such as a ring, 


 is overlooked. Each box is then properly stored for 60 days, 


 another precaution. This is also why each individual's 


 initial aluminum transfer case is bar coded upon receipt--in 


 case the need arises to locate a missing personal effect, 


 which might have gone overlooked.



 We visit the ''Personal Effects'' area next. In one room, 


 more than a dozen floor-to-ceiling wire shelving units, each 


 bearing five shelves, hold the electronically tracked 


 personal effects of each person while he or she is prepared. 


 Dover routinely cleans all personal effects before returning 


 them to families.



 As the group quietly files out of the room and toward the 


 dressing area, two shelves at the back of the room catch my 


 eye. Labeled ''Disassociated P.E.,'' I stand for a while, 


 alone, gazing at the small number of personal effects that 


 arrived at Dover at some point in the past that could not be 


 reassociated with someone in their care despite the 


 exhaustive efforts of its staff. A dime. Several long-


 distance calling cards. Two different photos of the same 


 infant girl wearing a bright yellow dress. The combination to 


 a Master Lock. Small stuff indeed, yet I sadly realize how 


 significant the slightest of these might prove to a grieving 


 family. Shaking myself from my reverie, I again feel proud of 


 the lengths these people go to in order to serve the living 


 before setting off to find the group.



 Entering the dressing area, I hear Zig explain the four 


 stages of viewing that Dover assigns to each case: a head 


 wrap, a full wrap, viewable for ID, and viewable. Deaths 


 involving mutilation of the entire body and deemed unviewable 


 receive a dignified full wrap, and Zig demonstrated this 


 process for the group (without the presence of remains). 


 First, Dover staff cocoon the body or body part(s) in 


 absorbent layers of cotton gauze before wrapping it in 


 plastic sheeting. Then a crisp white cotton sheet shrouds the 


 body before a green Army blanket is wrapped around that. 


 Finally, in such cases, the soldier's uniform is placed on 


 top of the fully wrapped body within a casket.



 As I watch this demonstration, I sense that death from a 


 bullet must prove easier to prepare, comparatively speaking, 


 versus death caused by a roadside bomb or some other form of 


 insurgent explosive device. I can neither imagine the horrors 


 these people must witness nor fathom how they can handle 


 such, but the respect I hold for their professionalism is 


 undeniable at this point.



 ''Uniform Prep'' is the next area we visit. Here, high 


 Plexiglas shelving units, like you might see in your local 


 department store, contain hundreds of uniform components--


 pants, shirts, ties, etc.--each in dozens of sizes and 


 representing every conceivable military branch, as well as 


 numerous American flags. On racks located along one wall, 


 freshly pressed uniform jackets hang.



 Two walls of this area display every conceivable military 


 medal, insignia, patch, stripe, bar and decoration you can 


 name in plastic packages. John Fitch, a veteran of Vietnam, 


 tells me that each military branch, each division, each unit, 


 has its own special--often unique--insignias, explaining the 


 vast array before us. The Dover Port Mortuary strives in 


 every case to prepare meticulously, lovingly the remains of a 


 fallen soldier as completely and as accurately as possible 


 for the many grieving his or her death. While these walls 


 hold a tremendous number of items to help them ''get it 


 right,'' Zig later states that Dover continually adds such 


 items because it is nearly impossible to have all of them in 


 stock, just in case.



 Briefly, I find myself examining, fascinated, the many rows 


 of shiny decorations on these walls as if I'm some dopey 


 tourist in a souvenir shop debating which trinket to purchase 


 for the kids. Then the realization of where I am and the 


 horrible, sad purpose of these items breaks through my fog of 


 denial and I feel ashamed.



 Finally, we visit the areas where the staff prepares 


 caskets and urns and gets each case ready for transportation 


 back to his or her family. The Dover Port Mortuary is almost 


 entirely self-sufficient, further testament to its commitment 


 to caring for the dead. Zig explains that Dover even engraves 


 the name plates needed for urns, and will cremate a body at 


 its own facility if a family so desires, before summarizing 


 that Dover handles everything but ''sewing the stripes onto 


 uniforms.'' (I later discover that he isn't kidding. Sewing 


 duties required to meticulously prepare a burial uniform 


 remain the only duty that Dover still outsources.)





 A large area at the rear of the facility holds the numerous 


 caskets, urns and temporary containers Dover will need. The 


 mortuary stocks only one type of wood and one type of metal 


 casket, purchased from several manufacturers, as well as 


 Jewish caskets and even oversized caskets, testament again to 


 its dedication to meeting the needs of each unique case with 


 the dignity, honor and respect that each fallen soldier has 


 earned.



 The average age of the 1,200 cases Dover's Port Mortuary 


 staff handles each year is 25. Despite the horrors of war, 


 and thanks to the dedication, commitment and expertise of 


 this remarkable facility's full- and part-time employees, 


 Dover returns these young loved ones to their grieving 


 families in a state suitable for viewing 85 percent of the 


 time. (Again, it is crucial to understand that 


 ''viewability'' has a different meaning here versus that used 


 in a typical funeral home. Sadly, in some cases, only the 


 decedent's head is viewable but not the body, or vice versa.)



 As I take my seat aboard our chartered bus and settle in 


 for the two-hour return journey to Washington, D.C., I gaze 


 at the now-illuminated landscape of Delaware through my 


 window as the miles pass unnoticed, lost in thought, sensing 


 the night chill through my shirt. I do not feel like idly 


 chatting right now.



 I wish every funeral service professional, every citizen, 


 had the opportunity to experience firsthand the tour I still 


 struggle to assimilate. Learning how each set of remains that 


 arrives at the Charles C. Carson Center for Mortuary Affairs 


 is steadfastly treated as unique--as was each individual--and 


 receives from a small group of amazing people the requisite 


 time, attention and care their due moves me profoundly. Each 


 is special. Each is one of a kind. Each--as well as everyone 


 that grieves their death--is worthy of the mathematically 


 exacting tender mercies and loyalty to high ideals each 


 fallen soldier earned. Thanks to this facility and its staff, 


 we--as a nation--bestow such on friend or foe alike.



 I will never think of them as numbers again.
