# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `9b54d3d5506a4b9a5637fa0b95688fde`
`Mr. WARNER — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the nomination 
of Judge Leslie Southwick to serve on the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 
for the Fifth Circuit.

Article II, section 2 of the U.S. Constitution explicitly provides 
the responsibilities of the executive branch of Government and the 
Senate with respect to judicial nominations. Article II, section 2 of 
the Constitution reads, in part, that the President ''shall nominate, 
and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint . . 
. Judges of the Supreme Court and all other Officers of the United 
States . . . .''

Thus, the Constitution provides the President of the United States 
with the responsibility of nominating individuals to serve on our 
Federal bench.

The Constitution provides the Senate with the responsibility of 
providing advice to the President on those nominations and with the 
responsibility of providing or withholding consent on those 
nominations.

In this respect, article II, section 2 of our Constitution places our 
Federal judiciary--a coequal branch of Government--in a unique posture 
with respect to the other two co-equal branches of our Federal 
Government. Unlike the executive branch and unlike the Congress, the 
Constitution places the composition and continuity of our Federal 
judiciary entirely within the coordinated exercise of responsibilities 
of the other two branches of Government. Only if the President and the 
Senate fairly, objectively, and in a timely fashion exercise these 
respective constitutional powers can the judicial branch of Government 
be composed and maintained so that our courts can function and serve 
the American people.

For this reason, in my view, a Senator has no higher duty than his or 
her constitutional responsibilities under article II, section 2--the 
advice and consent clause.

During the course of my 28 years in the Senate, I have always tried 
to fairly and objectively review a judicial nominee's credentials prior 
to deciding whether I will vote to provide consent on a nomination. I 
look at a wide range of factors, primarily character, professional 
career, experience, integrity, and temperament for lifetime service on 
our courts. While I certainly recognize political considerations, it is 
my practice not to be bound by them.

Having reviewed Judge Southwick's nomination, in my view, he is 
eminently qualified to serve on the Federal bench. I note that the 
American Bar Association, often cited as the ''gold standard'' of 
review of judicial nominees, agrees with me as it has given Judge 
Southwick its highest rating of ''well-qualified.''

Judge Southwick's credentials are well-known but worth repeating. He 
received his bachelor's degree, cum laude, from Rice University and 
then proceeded to law school at the University of Texas.

Subsequent to his law school graduation, he served as a law clerk for 
two jurists: a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth 
Circuit--the court for which he now has been nominated--and for a judge 
on the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals.

Upon completing his clerkships, Mr. Southwick entered private 
practice with a law firm in Mississippi, starting as an associate but 
rising to the level of partner 6 years later. After 12 years of private 
practice, he joined the U.S. Department of Justice in the George H. W. 
Bush administration, working as Deputy Assistant Attorney General for 
the Civil Rights Division.

From 1995 until 2006, Leslie Southwick served as a member of the 
Mississippi Court of Appeals. During this time, Judge Southwick also 
served his country in uniform.

From 1992 through 1997, he was a member of the Judge Advocate 
General's Corps in the U.S. Army Reserve. In 2003, he volunteered to 
serve in a line combat unit, the 155th Separate Armor Brigade. In 2004, 
he took a leave of absence from the bench to serve in Iraq with the 
155th Brigade Combat Team of the Mississippi National Guard.

Mr. President, Judge Southwick is obviously very well qualified to 
serve on the Federal bench. Not only does he meet the requisite 
academic requirements, he also has real world experience in private 
practice and a dedication to public service.

In my view, he deserves to be confirmed to the Federal bench. I urge 
my colleagues to support this eminently qualified nominee.