---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9b58f8ae925e602cfd556dbd4c291244`
`Mr. HARKIN — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I have come to the floor today to 
reiterate my intention, along with the senior Senator from California, 
Mrs. Feinstein, and the senior Senator from Nebraska, Mr. Hagel, to 
offer legislation to close the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba.

Now, again, we have decided not to offer the measure on the bill 
before us, the National Defense Authorization Act. But we certainly 
will be offering it as an amendment to the Defense appropriations bill 
when that bill comes to the floor. One way or another, we intend to get 
this legislation passed this year.

I think there is remarkable agreement on the need to find a way to 
close this prison. All our closest allies have urged that Guantanamo be 
closed, as have many leaders from across the political spectrum in the 
United States.

Last June, after three detainees committed suicide in a single day, 
President Bush acknowledged the prison has damaged America's reputation 
abroad. He said:




 No question, Guantanamo sends a signal to some of our 


 friends--provides an excuse, for example, to say the United 


 States is not upholding the values that they are trying to 


 encourage other countries to adhere to.


The President said:




 I'd like to close Guantanamo.


More recently, Secretary of Defense Bob Gates and Secretary of State 
Condoleezza Rice have urged the prison be shut down.

On March 23, the Washington Post, citing ''senior administration 
officials,'' reported that Secretary Gates had ''repeatedly argued that 
the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, had become so tainted 
abroad that legal proceedings at Guantanamo would be viewed as 
illegitimate.''

According to the Post, Secretary Gates ''told President Bush and 
others that it should be shut down as quickly as possible.''

Let's make no mistake about it; the current detainees at Guantanamo 
do include a number of extremely dangerous terrorists, with the 
determination and ability--if given the opportunity--to inflict harm 
upon the United States and its citizens. Among the detainees are 14 
senior leaders of al-Qaida, including Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who has 
confessed to being a mastermind of the September 11 attacks, as well as 
others. We must--and we can--hold these enemy combatants in maximum 
security conditions elsewhere.

But the critics of Guantanamo are right. The 5-year-old prison at 
Guantanamo is a stain on the honor of our country. By holding people at 
Guantanamo without charge, without judicial review, without appropriate 
legal counsel--and in the past subjecting many of them to what amounts 
to torture, regardless of how you want to dress it up--by doing all 
those things, we have forfeited the moral high ground and stand as 
hypocrites in the eyes of the world.

As Secretary Gates has argued, any legal proceedings or convictions 
now taking place on Guantanamo will be viewed as illegitimate in the 
eyes of the world.

Perhaps most seriously, from a pragmatic standpoint, maintaining the 
prison at Guantanamo is simply counterproductive. It has become a 
propaganda bonanza and recruitment tool for Islamic fundamentalists. It 
alienates our friends and allies. It detracts from our ability to 
regain the moral high ground and rally the world against the terrorists 
who threaten us.

The administration has repeatedly described detainees at Guantanamo 
as ''the worst of the worst,'' or, as former Secretary of Defense, 
Donald Rumsfeld, once described them, the ''most dangerous, best-
trained, vicious killers on the face of the earth.'' Unquestionably, 
some of the detainees fit these descriptions. However, an exhaustive 
study of Guantanamo detainees conducted by the nonpartisan and highly 
regarded National Journal, last year, came to the following 
conclusions:

A large percentage--perhaps the majority--of the detainees were not 
captured on any battlefield, let alone on ''the battlefield in 
Afghanistan,'' as President Bush once asserted.



Secondly, fewer than--fewer than--20 percent of the detainees have 
ever been al-Qaida members.

Third, many scores--and perhaps hundreds--of the detainees were not 
even Taliban foot soldiers, let alone al-Qaida members.

Fourth, the majority of the people at Guantanamo were not captured by 
U.S. forces but, rather, handed over by reward-seeking Pakistanis and 
Afghan warlords and by villagers of highly dubious reliability.

For example, one of the detainees in Guantanamo is a man who was 
conscripted by the Taliban to work as an assistant cook. The U.S. 
Government's ''evidence'' against this detainee consists, in its 
entirety, of the following--keep in mind, the evidence against this 
detainee consists, in its entirety, of the following--




 a. Detainee is associated with the Taliban.



 i. The detainee indicates that he was conscripted into the 


 Taliban.



 b. Detainee engaged in hostilities against the U.S. or its 


 coalition partners.



 i. The detainee admits he was a cook's assistant for 


 Taliban forces in Narim, Afghanistan under the command of 


 Haji Mullah Baki.



 ii.


Get this--




 ii. Detainee fled from Narim to Kabul during the Northern 


 Alliance attack and surrendered to the Northern Alliance.


That is it. That is the evidence they have against this detainee. He 
was forced by the Taliban to be a cook. When he saw his opportunity to 
get out of there, he escaped and went to the northern forces and 
surrendered to them. Now he sits in Guantanamo.

What kind of justice is this?

Well, the situation at Guantanamo is rather personal with me. Not 
only was I stationed there for some time back when I was a Navy pilot--
and I have since been back, of course, to visit--but more personal, in 
July of 1970, I was a rather young staff person for the Select 
Committee on U.S. Involvement in Southeast Asia of the House of 
Representatives. I was working with a congressional delegation on a 
factfinding mission to Vietnam in the summer of 1970, and through a 
series of circumstances--and because of the bravery of a young 
Vietnamese man who had been in the tiger cages on Con Son Island and 
who was let out--now, why was he let out? Because usually when you got 
to the tiger cages, you were never seen again.

Well, the South Vietnamese had these prisons put up on Con Son 
Island. Actually, they were built by the French when the French ruled 
Indo-China. So the French built these prisons on an island off the 
coast. The Vietnamese took them over and then built these so-called 
tiger cages, which were hidden within the prison so no one could find 
them.

Cao Nguyen Loi was sentenced to the tiger cages because he led a 
student protest at Saigon University. He was the student leader at 
Saigon University in 1969, early 1970. Because he led a protest against 
the war, the police picked him up. The South Vietnamese Army picked him 
up and sent him out to Con Son Island.

No one knew who he was. But the students refused to go back to class 
until their student leader was released. It was time to take the exams, 
and this was a big deal for families. They were putting pressure on the 
university, and finally the Government let Cao Nguyen Loi go. They told 
him at the time, though, that if he ever said anything, they would kill 
his brother because his brother was also in the tiger cages.

Well, this young man, very bravely, sought me out, along with Don 
Luce. Don Luce was a young man who I think at that time had been 
working for the World Council of Churches in Vietnam. If I am not 
mistaken, I think he was a native of Vermont. Yes, Don Luce was a 
native of the State of Vermont. He had been over there teaching the 
Vietnamese how to grow sweet potatoes, agricultural things.

Well, Don Luce had known this young man. I had sought out Don Luce 
because Luce had written a book about Vietnam called ''Vietnam--The 
Unheard Voices.'' So in preparation for this trip to Vietnam, I read 
the book because I felt that Congressmen should hear both sides. So I 
read this book. I never met Don Luce before, but I was intrigued by 
this book, that there was a large sector--I questioned at the time--of 
South Vietnamese who were opposed to the war. We were led to believe 
quite differently, of course.

So Don Luce brought this young man to see me to tell me about the 
existence of the tiger cages. These tiger cages had been rumored for a 
long time. In fact, the year before, in 1969, a young Congressman by 
the name of John Conyers went over with a Congressman, I believe it was 
Father Drinan, Bob Drinan, and they had inquired about the existence of 
the tiger cages. They were told this was Communist propaganda, no such 
thing existed. Our military denied it. The Nixon administration denied 
it. The South Vietnamese Government denied it: There was no such thing. 
This was Communist propaganda.

Well, this young man, who came to see me, said: They are out there 
because I was in them. But they told me if I talked, they would kill my 
brother, so I have to place my trust in you because someone has to 
expose them. I said: Well, I don't know if I could or not because I 
would have to get a couple of Congressmen to go out there. It was on an 
island. We had to get a plane, fly out to this remote island. It would 
take a whole day. Then he told me: You would not find them unless you 
have a map. I will draw you a map. So he sat down and he drew me a map 
of how to find the tiger cages. He said: Because, you see, there are a 
lot of prison camps on Con Son Island. There are about five different 
prison camps and they all look the same. Unless you know what you are 
looking for, you will never find the tiger cages, because they are in 
one prison camp and you have to know how to find them. He drew me a 
map. He couldn't quite remember exactly, but he knew to look for these 
certain symbols, these certain signs, these certain things he 
remembered. So I took the map.


I then went to see Congressman Gus Hawkins of California and laid 
this out for him and said there might be a possibility that we could 
find out once and for all whether these tiger cages existed. He said he 
would go. We needed another Congressman. William Anderson, Congressman 
William R. Anderson from Tennessee, when he heard the story, said: I 
will go.

Keep in mind, Congressman William R. Anderson had until that time 
been a supporter of the Vietnam war. He wrote a book once, which is one 
of my favorite books. It was called ''Nautilus 90 North.'' This same 
Congressman Anderson was the first skipper of the first nuclear 
submarine called the Nautilus. He was a very famous guy at the time 
because he was the first one who took a nuclear sub underneath the 
North Pole and he wrote a book about the Nautilus submarine called 
''Nautilus 90 North.'' He retired from the Navy and was elected to the 
House from Tennessee.

Congressman Anderson, Congressman Hawkins, and I took off with Don 
Luce. We went out to the islands. I am not going to give you the whole 
story, but armed with the map, we were able to find the tiger camps. 
When we found them, we were told by one Red Walton, who was the USAID 
director--public safety director--that we had no business being there. 
Oh, I might say, before we got out there, this same Red Walton had told 
us these prison camps were more like a Boy Scout camp. They took us to 
some of the prison camps and they weren't all that bad for prisons, I 
guess. But again, armed with a map, we found the tiger cages and the 
suffering that we saw there, the inhumanity we saw there, was something 
you never shake. I was armed with a camera. I had my camera, so I took 
pictures. Of course, we had two Congressmen, William Anderson and Gus 
Hawkins, there.

Armed with that information and coming back to the States, we 
published the pictures and got the story out. It became a worldwide 
story. The prisoners were released because of the pressure that was put 
upon the South Vietnamese government. They then began to tell their 
stories. But there was one picture I took that was in Life Magazine. It 
was of a young Buddhist monk who looked up through the bars of these 
tiger cages as we looked down on him, and he said in Vietnamese--we had 
Don Luce as an interpreter--he said: I am here for only one reason: 
Because I speak out for peace, and no matter how long I stay here, I 
will continue to speak out for peace.

I took a picture of that young Buddhist monk. Yet before the 
prisoners


were all released, he was beaten to death.

While I have since gone back to Con Son Island and visited his grave, 
the tiger cages are now a memorial, like a museum for people to see, of 
all the horrors they inflicted on so many hundreds of people. People 
were shackled together in awful conditions--awful conditions.

This weekend I was handed a paper done by Vaughan Bagley. I visited 
with her. She was doing a paper on the tiger cages of Con Son. She 
wrote a paper about it. She did some very good research. Vaughan is a 
high school student, but she did a lot of great research. She went back 
and looked at all of the congressional hearings that were held on this, 
and she quoted Representative Hawkins. Representative Hawkins stated at 
the congressional hearings in 1970:




 Con Son is a symbol of how some American officials will 


 cooperate in corruption and torture because they too want to 


 see the war continued and the government they put in power 


 protected.


Well, as she went on to point out, she said:




 Unfortunately, however, in their democratic crusade, 


 America lost the very principles of freedom and equality that 


 they purported to defend, and ultimately violated Article 13 


 of the Geneva Accords of 1949.


A former prisoner testified that the clear violation of these 
principles:




 No matter what medical problem the prisoner has: TB, 


 Diphtheria, he is still thrown in with all the others who are 


 not sick, all eat out of the same bowl, sleep together, 


 shackled to the same rope. I know of no other place on Earth 


 where human lives are so cheap as in Con Son.


Congressman Hawkins argued: Con Son is the type of not looking at our 
own faults and atrocities that endangers our American prisoners of war 
held by the Communists.

Vaughan Bagley did a great job on her research. What she pointed out 
in her paper was that in our pursuit of democratic ideals and democracy 
around the world, we can't condone, harbor, or support places like the 
tiger cages of Con Son Island, Abu Ghraib, or Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

I tell this story because now I think my colleagues get some idea of 
why I feel so strongly about Guantanamo. It has for me the same smell, 
the same awful vision of Con Son Island. You see, in both cases these 
prisons were off on remote islands. Why? Well, to keep away the press, 
to keep people from asking questions about what was going on. Once you 
were taken off the island, chances are you were never seen again.

That is what has happened at Guantanamo. Guantanamo has become the 
United States Con Son Island. It has become like the tiger cages on Con 
Son Island. The more the world knows about it, the harder it is for us 
to argue from kind of a morally high standpoint of supporting the 
Geneva Conventions or the rule of law.

Well, at the time of the discovery of the tiger cages, the United 
States Government had been insisting that the North Vietnamese abide by 
the Geneva Conventions. Yet here we were condoning, funding, and 
supervising the torture not only of Vietnamese prisoners of war but of 
civilians. People such as this young guide who was caught up and held 
by the Taliban as a cook, who escaped, who probably didn't want to 
fight for anybody--a clear violation of the Geneva Conventions.

There are disturbing parallels between what transpired on Con Son 
Island nearly four decades ago and what has happened at Guantanamo in 
recent years. As I said in both cases, prisons were deliberately set up 
on remote islands, clearly with the intention of limiting scrutiny and 
restricting access. In both cases, detainees were not classified as 
prisoners of war, expressly to deny them the protection of the Geneva 
Conventions. In both cases, detainees were deprived of any right to due 
process, judicial review, or a fair trial. They were simply held 
indefinitely in isolation in legal limbo. In both cases, when the 
mistreatment of detainees was exposed, the United States stood accused 
of hypocrisy and of betraying its most sacred values and violating 
international law.


We need to reverse the damage Guantanamo has done to our reputation 
and to our ability to wage an effective fight against the terrorists 
who attacked us on September 11 of 2001. The essential first step must 
be to close the prison at Guantanamo as expeditiously as possible. The 
legislation that Senator Feinstein, Senator Hagel, and I have would 
accomplish this within 1 year of the date of enactment.

Under the provisions of our legislation, one, the President shall 
close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. All detainees shall be 
removed from the facility. No detainee shall be transferred to a 
detention facility under U.S. custody located outside the United 
States.

We heard all about these other little prisons around the world that, 
well, maybe they are held by other countries, but they are supervised 
by us. Our legislation says it can't be transferred there either. No 
later than 3 months after enactment, the President shall submit a 
report to Congress describing plans for closing Guantanamo and removing 
the detainees, and the President shall keep Congress currently informed 
of steps taken to implement the legislation.

That is basically our legislation. It is very clear, very 
straightforward. As I said, we were going to offer it on the Defense 
authorization bill. We have all agreed not to do so, but that we 
definitely will be seeing this coming up on the Defense appropriations.

In closing, on this issue, the United States has lost its way both in 
Iraq and at Guantanamo. We need to wage a smarter, more focused, and 
more effective fight against the Islamic terrorists who threaten us, 
and we must do so in ways that do not give credence to the American 
antipropaganda and do not rally more recruits to their cause. To that 
end, we must close the prison at Guantanamo as soon as possible. Our 
amendment has won the enthusiastic endorsement of Human Rights Watch, 
Human Rights First, Amnesty International, and the American Civil 
Liberties Union. We currently have 14 bipartisan cosponsors here in the 
Senate. I urge our colleagues to join us in cosponsoring this 
legislation.















Levin-Reed Amendment


Before I yield the floor, I also want to talk for a minute on the 
bill--the Levin-Reed amendment--because I think it offers the best 
prospect for accomplishing the goals of a more focused and effective 
campaign against the terrorists.

For 4 long years, President Bush has said that as the Iraqis step up 
to their responsibilities, the United States will be able to step down. 
Today it is painfully clear that the opposite is the case. The Iraqi 
military and Government will only step up to their responsibilities 
once it is clear that the United States is stepping down. The Levin-
Reed amendment says the United States will begin troop redeployment 
within 120 days and remove most American combat forces from Iraq by 
April of next year. This acknowledges what has long been obvious to our 
commanders: There can be no military solution to the mess in Iraq. At 
the same time, by signaling our intention to redeploy by next spring, 
we will create powerful incentives to force compromise within the 
deadlocked Iraqi Government and to compel Iraq's neighbors to play a 
more active and constructive role in pacifying that country.

Again, I say this only of myself, but there is no guarantee this 
approach will work--will succeed. There is no guarantee the Iraqis will 
be willing or able to compromise and come together in a genuine 
government of national reconciliation. However, the only certainty is 
that our current force is a formula for more failure, more deadlock 
within the Iraqi Government, more death and destruction for both Iraq 
and America.

New developments this past week have driven home the urgency of the 
change of course proposed by the Levin-Reed amendment. Last week, we 
learned we are now spending an astronomical $10 billion a month in 
Iraq. Last week, the administration issued the required progress report 
on the benchmarks for Iraq. What did it show? It showed the Government 
in Baghdad has failed to meet any of the benchmarks for political and 
economic reform. The Iraqis have failed to make progress in passing a 
law governing the sharing of oil revenues.

They have failed to make progress in allowing former Baath Party 
members to return to their jobs. They have failed to make progress in 
disarming the militias. They have failed to make progress in organizing 
new provincial


elections. Indeed, the only thing the Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds have 
agreed upon in Parliament is that they will go on vacation during the 
month of August.

Now, there was one glimmer of good news in the report, and that was, 
the U.S. military has had some success since January in improving the 
security situation, although the overall levels of violence and mayhem 
are unchanged. Well, limited success should come as no surprise to 
anybody. We all appreciate the professionalism, courage, and capability 
of our Armed Forces. It would be astonishing if an additional 30,000 
troops didn't see at least some small improvement in security.

There is one unfortunate thing about this. These modest gains are all 
being accomplished by U.S. troops, not Iraqis. Because the surge is not 
sustainable, even these modest gains are ephemeral.

Meanwhile, a new report by the National Counterterrorism Center 
concludes that al-Qaida has grown stronger than at any time since 9/11. 
In other words, while the U.S. military and intelligence assets have 
been massively sidetracked in Iraq over the last 4 years, al-Qaida has 
been able to regroup elsewhere, with most in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
As a CIA Deputy Director of Intelligence told a House committee:




 We see more al-Qaida training, more al-Qaida money, and 


 more al-Qaida communication.


Indeed, the U.S. invasion of Iraq has been the gift that keeps on 
giving to al-Qaida. There was no al-Qaida presence in Iraq before the 
invasion. Now a home-grown organization, loosely affiliated with al-
Qaida, calling themselves ''al-Qaida in Mesopotamia,'' has emerged. 
What's more, as previous intelligence reports have concluded, America's 
ongoing occupation of Iraq has been a powerful recruitment tool not 
only for al-Qaida, but for many new extremist organizations, some of 
them sprouting up spontaneously in western countries, including Britain 
and Spain.

So, Mr. President, we have reached an extraordinary juncture 
regarding the current failed policy in Iraq. We have reached the point, 
frankly, where either you side with the President and his demand that 
we stay the course in pursuit of what he calls victory--although the 
President has never really defined what that victory is--or you side 
with the American people and our military commanders who have concluded 
that there is no military solution in Iraq. You either support this 
endless, pointless war or you support a smaller, more focused campaign 
against the terrorists who truly threaten us. Those are the choices in 
the current Senate debate.

On our side of the aisle, we Democrats and the American people have 
made our choice to chart a new direction. I am confident that as more 
and more of our friends on the other side of the aisle make that choice 
in the days and weeks ahead, we will ultimately prevail.

The conflict in Iraq can only be solved through political compromise 
and reconciliation in Baghdad and through aggressive diplomatic 
engagement with Iraq's neighbors and across the Middle East. So it is 
time to chart a new course. The approach embodied in the Levin-Reed 
amendment offers us our best hope for extricating ourselves from this 
quagmire in Iraq and retaking the offensive against al-Qaida and other 
terrorist groups.

I am proud to be a cosponsor, and I urge all my colleagues to support 
the Levin-Reed amendment.