# None
## `9b5a69404efd979ef2151a6e4eaa6299`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 818 provides for 
consideration of H.R. 4156, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq 
Redeployment Appropriations Act of 2008. The rule provides 2 hours of 
debate and provides for one motion to recommit.

Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq has gone on for nearly 5 years. 
Thousands of our brave men and women have lost their lives. Many more 
thousands have returned home with injuries so severe that they will 
require a lifetime of medical treatments.

We have spent hundreds of billions of dollars on the war, virtually 
none of it paid for, almost all of it on our national credit card. That 
means that the bill will be paid for not by us, but by our kids and our 
grandkids.

The war has diminished our standing in the world. It has distracted 
us from the war in Afghanistan, the very place where those responsible 
for 9/11 are now regrouping. And it has put incredible strain on the 
readiness of our Armed Forces.

The President of the United States and many of my Republican friends 
have argued fiercely over the years for a blank check. They want no 
strings, no conditions, no benchmarks, no end dates, no accountability, 
no nothing.

Today, they will tell us that the President's strategy is working; 
that the recent decrease in deaths and casualties in certain areas of 
Iraq prove it, and, therefore, we should provide yet another blank 
check.

Mr. Speaker, let me caution my friends about declaring ''mission 
accomplished'' yet again. While all of us pray that the violence 
continues to subside, we should also appreciate history enough to know 
that lulls in intense violence are not always permanent. Let me also 
state that the current levels of violence in Iraq are still 
unacceptably high.

As Joe Christoff of the Government Accountability Office recently 
testified, this recent reduction in violence should be put into the 
proper context as it coincides with increased sectarian cleansing and a 
massive refugee displacement. Let me quote:

''You know, we look at the attack data going down, but it's not 
taking into consideration that there might be fewer attacks because you 
have ethnically cleansed neighborhoods, particularly in the Baghdad 
area. It's produced 2.2 million refugees that have left, and it's 
produced 2 million internally displaced persons within the country as 
well.''

Mr. Speaker, we must remember that the justification for the surge 
and the justification for the Bush military strategy in Iraq has always 
been to foster Iraqi political reconciliation. And there is precious 
little evidence of any such thing.

Over 10 months ago, President Bush said, ''A successful strategy for 
Iraq goes beyond military operations. Ordinary Iraqi citizens must see 
that military operations are accompanied by visible improvements in 
their neighborhoods and communities. So America will hold the Iraqi 
Government to the benchmarks it has announced.''

But, Mr. Speaker, as the GAO reported last month, ''Iraq has not yet 
advanced key legislation on equitably sharing oil revenues and holding 
provincial elections. In addition, sectarian influences within Iraqi 
ministries continue while militia influences divide the loyalties of 
Iraqi security forces.''

Mr. Speaker, the Maliki government continues to be corrupt, inept and 
without the support of the vast majority of the Iraqi people. When will 
the Bush administration live up to its word and hold the Iraqi 
Government accountable for its actions, or inaction?

The fundamental crisis facing Iraq remains the same: the inability of 
Sunni, Shiites and Kurds to agree to set aside their sectarian 
divisions and live in peace. As long as we remain there indefinitely, 
Mr. Speaker, there is no incentive for anything to change.

Mr. Speaker, our soldiers have already given so much to create an 
opportunity for the Iraqi Government, an opportunity that that 
government has squandered. So, today, we are saying we want a different 
course. We reject the President's vision of an endless war that will 
cost more lives and bankrupt our Nation.

Today, we will vote on a bill that requires the redeployment of U.S. 
troops from Iraq to begin within 30 days of enactment, with a target 
for completion of December 15, 2008. It would prohibit the deployment 
of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and equipped. And it 
changes the mission of our forces.

It also extends to all government agencies and personnel the 
limitations in the Army Field Manual on permissible interrogation 
techniques, which means that torture will be absolutely banned, and 
anyone who engages in such practices will be committing a crime under 
U.S. law, no ands, ifs or buts.

Mr. Speaker, it is no longer acceptable for Congress to simply write 
yet another blank check. It is not acceptable for the President to 
simply run out the clock and hand this problem off to his successor.

This is a war that George Bush started, and this is a war that he 
needs to end. For the sake of our troops, for the sake of our country, 
we need to support this legislation. Enough is enough.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.