---
---

# None
## `9b6c8d8847f21147b6dfcd478e54396b`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Mr. President, I come here to the floor this morning to 
speak about the strategy that we are moving forward with in Iraq. I 
also come here to say the debate over the last several days, including 
overnight, has been a very important debate and one we do need to have. 
Our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve the debate that is taking 
place here in the Senate.

As the sun rises today across America, it is midafternoon in Baghdad, 
in Iraq. There the temperatures are close to 100 degrees as we speak. 
In Iraq today we know there are almost 160,000 men and women in uniform 
who are serving there, doing the duty they have been called to do on 
behalf of a grateful nation. So it is for them, for the 160,000 troops 
we have in Iraq today, for the 1.4 million veterans of both Operation 
Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom, that we in the Senate 
should have a debate about our way forward in Iraq.

I, therefore, say to my colleagues who have come to the floor as the 
night has gone on and have said things such as this is all about cut 
and run, this is about surrender, this is a political stunt, that they 
are wrong. With all due respect, those kinds of labels are not helpful 
as we deal with what is a fundamental American issue, the issue of war 
and peace and the way forward for all of us here in this country and 
the way forward for our Armed Forces. Those kinds of labels, those 
kinds of attacks are not worthy of the reason the American people sent 
us all here to this body to try to define and devise the best policies 
for America, the best of policies that will make America strong, the 
best of policies that will restore America's standing in the world, the 
best of policies that will honor and recognize that contribution of the 
greatest generation of America, the generation of World War II. That 
kind of labeling is not worthy of trying to bring us together in a 
manner and a way that will help us find stability in Iraq, in the 
Middle East, bring our troops home, and achieve the goals I believe at 
the end many of us would agree upon in the Senate.

I do not believe the long debate over all of last night has been at 
all a lost cause. It is important for those of us, the 100 Members of 
the Senate, who represent the 300 million people of America to come to 
the floor and give voice to the future of the most fundamental national 
security issue of our time. The most fundamental national security 
issue of our time is how we deal with the issue of terrorism, how we 
deal with creating stability in the Middle East and, ultimately, how we 
bring our troops home out of harm's way. This debate on those 
fundamental issues is one that is worth having. Those who would demean, 
who would take away, who would detract from the importance of this 
question by trying to use labels--such as ''surrender'' or 
''precipitous withdrawal,'' ''cut and run''--do not do a service to the 
country in advancing a policy that is worthy of the sacrifice so many 
have made.

I hope as we move forward, not only in today's debate and in the vote 
that will take place later on this morning, as well as when we deal 
with this issue in July and perhaps into the August recess, perhaps 
into September, perhaps into October, that we will be able to find a 
common way forward.

I am reminded, as I was listening to some of the labeling that was 
going on here last night, of a campaign that took place in Georgia in 
2002, where a great American by the name of Max Cleland, who had given 
so much of his life, his blood, and his limbs for the freedom of 
America in Vietnam, was used as a political pawn in that election of 
2002 by people here in Washington and other places who dared put the 
label on him as unpatriotic. This man, who gave so much to his country, 
who was willing to give the very last ounce of devotion and courage in 
his life to do the ultimate sacrifice, was labeled as unpatriotic. So 
the labeling we see taking place here in this debate on the Senate 
floor through the night and through the rest of the day smacks of that 
same kind of labeling that is unworthy of our purpose in the Senate.

I hope as we move forward, we can find a way of working together to 
address the reality and the difficulty of the issues we face. Our 
troops know the importance of this debate. The 1.4 million veterans who 
served in Iraq and Afghanistan and their families know the importance 
of this debate. There is probably not a Member of this Chamber today 
who has not spent many


hours, both in Iraq, as well as with our troops back home, and in 
Afghanistan talking to them about the reality on the ground, what it is 
that they see, how it is conditions are unfolding, and how it is that 
they believe we ought to move forward with a policy that is worthy of 
their bravery.


The solemnity of this debate should not be lost on America, as the 
sun rises over this country. The solemnity of this debate should not be 
lost, particularly when we think about the men and women who have given 
their lives already in this cause in Iraq.

As of today, just from my State of Colorado, at the top of the Rocky 
Mountains--my State of Colorado--we have had 51 members of Colorado's 
population killed in Iraq. We have had 443 who have been wounded in 
Iraq. U.S. casualties in Iraq today are 3,618--3,618 Americans have 
given their lives in Iraq.

So the solemnity of this debate should be one that should honor those 
who have given their lives in the effort in Iraq, as they have done the 
duty commanded by the Commander in Chief.

Beyond those who have given their lives and the sacrifice their 
families have made to this effort, we also must remember the solemnity 
of this time and this moment when we think about the 26,806 Members of 
our armed services who have been wounded in Iraq. Many of us have spent 
time at Walter Reed or spent time with veterans back home where we see 
what has happened to the lives of those who have lost their limbs, who 
have had traumatic brain injuries.

Eighteen percent of those who have gone from Fort Carson, CO, have 
returned with a traumatic brain injury. It is for those people that we 
must make sure we have a solemn debate devoid of the politics, devoid 
of the politics that we see taking place with the labeling that is 
occurring here today.

There is no doubt that as we look at what has happened in now what is 
almost a 5-year war in Iraq, there is a legion of mistakes that have 
been made. My friends on the other side of the aisle will concede there 
have been major mistakes made, that in the early years of the war 
effort there were mistakes made on intelligence, mistakes made on the 
information that was provided to the Congress, multiple mistakes in 
terms of looking at the way forward and simply not being able to find 
it.

I believe when the President landed on the naval carrier and said the 
mission had been accomplished, in his heart and in his mind he did 
believe the mission had been accomplished. He did believe the mission 
had been accomplished because the government of Saddam Hussein had been 
toppled. Our brave men and women--some 300,000 men and women strong--
had gone in and had taken the Iraqi Republican Army down and had 
toppled Saddam Hussein. So when the President said ''mission 
accomplished,'' now 4 years plus ago, I think he believed that was in 
fact the case.

But it was also an absolute failure to be able to look ahead at the 
reality of the complexity and the political conditions that existed in 
Iraq at the time. I believe those who testified before the Congress in 
those days and said it would cost less than $50 billion to undertake 
this effort--I believe they were telling the American people what they 
thought was the case. But, sadly, they were very mistaken because we 
now knock on the door of having invested not $50 billion, not $100 
billion, not $200 billion, not $300 billion, not $400 billion, but we 
are over the $500 billion mark. How could we as America be 12 times off 
the mark--12 times off the mark--in terms of what this war would cost 
the American taxpayer? How could we be so far off the mark, perhaps 100 
times off the mark in terms of the number of men and women who would be 
killed in Iraq? No one ever anticipated 4/1/2/ years ago that there 
would be over 3,600 Americans who would be killed in Iraq.

So there has been a legion of mistakes that have been made. History 
will look at those mistakes. History will look at those mistakes and 
reach its own judgment.

Let me say, we should learn from those mistakes, as we move forward. 
In my view, that is what the Iraq Study Group did. That was a 
commission, in fact, that was created by legislative action of this 
Senate and the House of Representatives and signed by the President. It 
was a kind of template for which I believe we should strive to find a 
way of re-creating here in terms of their tenure and their approach to 
this fundamental issue of war and peace.

President John Kennedy said, at one point:




 So let us not be blind to our differences, but let us also 


 direct attention to our common interests and to the means by 


 which those differences can be resolved.


Let me say that again. He said: ''let us also direct attention to our 
common interests and to the means by which those differences can be 
resolved.''

We have differences here on the floor of the Senate this morning, as 
the sun rises across America. We have had differences over the last 
4/1/2/ years with respect to this war and the direction of this war. 
But I hope we find it among ourselves, Democrats and Republicans, to 
find a way forward together. I think if we do that, we will reach the 
vision and the aspiration that was articulated by President Kennedy 
when we find ourselves in the position where we have these fundamental 
differences among us.

I want to spend a few minutes on what I think is a good way forward 
for all of us. The Iraq Study Group--again, made up of 10 of the most 
prestigious Americans, people who have earned every right to be called 
the statesmen of America--came up with a number of recommendations and 
a number of findings. But at the beginning of the report, it is 
important for us to remember that in December of 2006--now some 7 
months ago--the Iraq Study Group said:




 The situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating.


''Grave and deteriorating.''




 There is no path that can guarantee success, but the 


 prospects can be improved.


It is with that thought in mind that many months ago I began to work, 
especially with Lee Hamilton, and with former Secretary James Baker, to 
craft legislation to implement the Iraq Study Group recommendations. 
Those recommendations that are set forth in the amendment which we have 
filed, which is cosponsored by 14 of our colleagues, is a way forward 
that establishes a new direction in Iraq. It does some things which are 
perhaps from the point of view of some not enough; but in the point of 
view of others, I think they are very important things for us to do, 
because for the first time as part of United States policy what we say 
is: No. 1, we will move forward to transition the mission from combat 
to training and support. We will do a mission change--a mission 
change--from combat to training and support. So our combat mission will 
be something we will transition out of Iraq.

They also say, and we include in the legislation, that as part of 
national policy we set forth a goal that this transition can, in fact, 
be completed by the early part of 2008. That is some 9 months from 
where we stand today.


In addition, what this legislation does, as a matter of United States 
law, is for the first time it sends a clear, unequivocal signal to the 
people of Iraq and to the Iraqi Government that these billions of 
dollars we are spending, and the huge amount of military support and 
effort we are putting into Iraq is going to come to an end, that our 
efforts are conditioned upon the Iraqi people and the Iraqi Government 
making substantial progress toward making their Government work and 
providing security on the ground.

Thirdly, what the legislation does, as a matter of our policy in the 
Senate, is set forth the major diplomatic offensive that is ultimately 
necessary to bring about a peace in the very complex and difficult 
situation we face not only in Iraq but also throughout the Middle East. 
I do hope we have at some point an opportunity to vote on that 
amendment.

Finally, with respect to the Iraq Study Group, I heard a couple of 
criticisms about our legislation. One of those criticisms is that it is 
outdated. I would say it was not a snapshot. Those recommendations--
that were put forth in December by a group that spent about $1 million 
in putting together that report, and spent countless days and weeks and 
months in coming up with the only coherent set of bipartisan 
recommendations on the way forward--those recommendations are as valid 
today as they were back in December.



Congressman Lee Hamilton wrote a letter on July 9 addressed to me, 
and for others who are working on the bill with me. What his letter 
said, in conclusion, is that our legislation ''outlines the best chance 
of salvaging a measure of stability in Iraq and the region. It provides 
a bipartisan way forward on a problem that cannot be solved unless we 
come together to address this singular national issue.''

I am hopeful we will be able to find that way forward.

Let me conclude then by saying this: Some people have said our 
efforts here in the last several days, including the all-night 
session--sleepless here in Washington, DC; watching the night come, 
watching the sunrise here in Washington, DC--has been a political 
stunt. It is not a political stunt when the voices of 100 Senators, or 
at least some of those Senators, are heard on this floor debating how 
we ought to move forward on the most fundamental issue of national 
security of our time.

It is for that reason that I commend the majority leader and I 
commend those who have called on us to make sure we put the spotlight 
on such an important issue. I commend them for their courage, and I am 
hopeful that as our country and our Senate moves forward in trying to 
deal with what is a seemingly intractable issue perhaps we can think 
back to the Scriptures, we can think back to the Book of Matthew, and 
remember what was said where He said: Blessed are the peacemakers. 
Blessed are the peacemakers.

It is the peacemakers ultimately who will help us chart a new and 
different direction forward in Iraq that will help us achieve the 
success I believe 100 Members of this Senate want; and I believe that 
is to bring our troops safely home, and to create the best conditions 
to salvage a measure of stability in Iraq and in the Middle East.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.