# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `9b6c0224441002cd70f9d0c60d478ce6`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN â€” 12 June 2007`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I have come to the floor to discuss 
one of the provisions of this Energy bill that is now before the 
Senate. This is the provision that would increase the fuel efficiency 
of our Nation's fleet of vehicles. These provisions were approved by 
the Commerce Committee with substantial bipartisan support. They are 
known as the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act.

I come to the floor in place of Chairman Inouye, who is ill today and 
has asked me if I would mind describing the provisions of this 
legislation, and, of course, I am delighted to do that. The legislation 
is supported by a bipartisan group of Senators, including Senators 
Stevens, Snowe, Dorgan, Collins, Durbin, Boxer, Cantwell, Carper, 
Klobuchar, and Kerry.

The basic premise of the legislation is to increase the fuel economy 
of cars, SUVs, and light trucks by 10 miles per gallon over 10 years--
that is the ''10 over 10''--and to do this by 2020. But the bill does 
do more than that. It continues beyond 2020 and increases fuel 
efficiency by 4 percent a year through 2030. This is with the addition 
of the Dorgan legislation which the Commerce Committee added to Senator 
Snowe's, Senator Inouye's and my 10-over-10 bill in the Commerce 
Committee.

Some would have liked this legislation to go further, perhaps to 40 
miles per gallon or more. Others do not want any significant increases. 
But I think this legislation strikes the right balance, and it sets 
forward a significant, achievable standard for the future.

It would be the first major fuel efficiency increase in the past 25 
years. Can you believe it? With all the talk and all the discussion in 
the past 25 years, nothing has been done to increase fuel efficiency. I 
have been working on this legislation in one form or another--first, it 
was with Senator Snowe as an SUV loophole closer. We have been doing 
this for more than a decade now.

But the simple truth is that today the technology exists to 
accomplish the goals of this legislation. It can be done without 
reducing safety and with significant benefit to our economy and our 
environment. It does so in a way that gives auto manufacturers the 
flexibility and the time they need. I hope they listen to this because 
I think they have a misimpression of the bill. This is not according to 
just us, but it is according to the experts--the National Academy of 
Sciences, the International Council on Clean Transportation, and 
experts at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. So it is time to 
break the logjam.

We all know our Nation faces stark energy challenges. Gas prices have 
risen to above $3 a gallon--more than doubling in the past 5 years. 
Global warming is real, it is happening, and it is having an impact on 
the world around us. The United States needs to address the 
transportation sector's emissions of carbon dioxide. Transportation, in 
2004, accounted for 28 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. With a 
war in Iraq and tense relations with Iran, we need to move away from 
our dependence on foreign oil. Through this legislation, we believe we 
can have a significant impact in each of those areas.

By 2025, increases for cars and light-duty trucks would save 2.1 
million barrels of oil per day. That is nearly the amount of oil 
imported daily from the Persian Gulf, so it would be a savings, by 
2025, of about what we import each day now. That is consequential. It 
would reduce carbon dioxide emissions--which is the primary global 
warming gas--18 percent from anticipated levels in 2025. That is the 
equivalent of taking 60 million cars off the road in a year. And--and 
this is a big ''and''--it would save the consumer, the driver, the 
family, a net $69 billion at the gas pump. That is based on a $3.08 a 
gallon gas price. That is the recent average price nationwide. So with 
gas costing $3.08 a gallon, the net consumer savings--if this bill were 
in place--would be $69 billion. This would mean, if you go to the 
individual or the individual family, it is a savings of $700 to $1,000 
a year for families with children, depending on the price of gas. So 
the time has come to act.


Now, here is what the measure would do. I hope people will listen. It 
would set achievable fuel economy standards for all vehicles, 
increasing fleetwide average fuel economy for all cars, SUVs, and 
trucks by 10 miles per gallon over 10 years--or from 25 to 35 miles per 
gallon by model year 2020. So 25 to 35 miles per gallon by 2020, and it 
is 2007 today. It would provide for an additional 4-percent annual 
increase after that until 2030. It would require the Department of 
Transportation to improve the fuel economy of medium and heavy-duty 
trucks over a 20-year period--not tomorrow, not today but over a 20-
year period--for the first time in history addressing this particular 
area of concern.

America, do something about your heavy trucks, and over the next 20 
years try to see if you can't make them more fuel efficient.

The key to this bill is it changes the way automakers are allowed to 
meet these standards in fairly substantial ways. I wish to describe 
them.

The provision provides the time and the flexibility needed for 
automakers, we believe, to meet these standards. This is where Detroit 
does not listen. We believe--we sincerely believe--it creates a level 
playing field for all automakers. Let me describe how.

Under the existing CAFE system, each automaker must meet a 27.5 
miles-per-gallon standard for their particular fleet of cars. This 
current system disadvantages American companies that build larger cars 
with lower gas mileage. So we admit the present system disadvantages 
American automobile makers.

But under the newly proposed system contained in this bill, the 
National Highway Transportation Safety Administration would have broad 
discretion to divide vehicles into classes based on their attributes, 
such as size. So a small car in a small-car class is evaluated against 
other small cars--not a small car evaluated against a Navigator or a 
Cadillac but class-by-class evaluations. This requirement would no 
longer apply to each automaker. This is additional flexibility. 
Different automakers will meet different standards, depending upon the 
mix of cars they choose to make.

From 2011 to 2019, the National Highway Transportation Safety 
Administration must set fuel economy standards that are the maximum 
feasible


and ratchet these standards up at a reasonable rate.

By 2020, the total average must meet the 35 miles per gallon--the 
total average. Some cars will be below it, and some will be above it--
as long as the total average meets the standard. This gives Detroit the 
flexibility they say they need. I do not know why they will not 
understand it.

This effectively gives the automakers 13 years to get the job done, 
and it means fuel economy will increase across all classes--from the 
smallest sedans to the largest SUVs. It may be different by the class, 
but, nonetheless, it would increase, so that the average fuel economy 
would be 35 miles per gallon. At the same time, the measure establishes 
a credit trading program under the direction of the National Highway 
Transportation Safety Administration, known as NHTSA. NHTSA would 
design, run, and operate this credit trading program.

The provision was strongly recommended by the National Academy of 
Sciences in 2002. It would give an automaker a financial incentive to 
exceed the standards. If it does, it could sell credits to another 
automaker and profit from having a more fuel-efficient fleet. So that 
an automaker that makes a car that attains 37 miles a gallon can sell 
that differential to someone who cannot quite make it.

It would also allow the banking of these credits for up to 5 years--
insurance if a company falls below the standard in a later year. If an 
automaker cannot meet the standards in a given year, they can purchase 
these credits, use bank credits, or borrow from projected surpluses 
from future years. So the bottom line is this is a practical, workable 
system which ensures substantial increases in fuel efficiency. Quite 
frankly, it is a major improvement over the current system, which has a 
much more rigid approach.


I want to say something. In all the time I have been working on this 
legislation, nobody from the automaker community has ever come to me to 
say: Look, we like this, but we don't like this. If you just changed it 
this way, it would appeal to us.

We have bent over backward to try to accommodate a bill to meet what 
for the past years--every time this comes up on the floor, I hear them 
argue: You can't evaluate small cars against big cars. Well, we don't 
do that in this bill.

Another thing we have done--and this was pursuant to Senator Stevens' 
request and interest in the committee--this measure provides an off-
ramp in 2020 in the unlikely event that there are substantial 
unforeseen costs.

The measure would give NHTSA the authority to set a standard lower or 
higher than the 35 miles per gallon in 2020. The authority could be 
invoked only if a thorough review of the costs of putting new 
technologies in our automotive fleet exceeds the agency's best estimate 
of the value to the Nation of setting the standard at this level. So 
that is the off-ramp. There can be an evaluation, a kind of cost-
benefit look at the situation, and there would have to be clear and 
convincing evidence that the costs exceed the benefits. Obviously, we 
wanted to make it somewhat difficult--not a rollover so everybody could 
get out of it--somewhat difficult.

NHTSA would have to take into consideration billions of dollars in 
fuel savings, national security implications of reducing our dependence 
on foreign oil, the effect of global warming and air pollution, and, on 
the other side of the scale, additional costs to manufacturers and 
consumers. Given all of the clear and meaningful benefits, we believe 
automakers can and will be able to meet these standards, actually with 
little difficulty, but the provisions give NHTSA discretion in the 
event it becomes clear automakers cannot meet the standards down the 
road.

So that is what the bill does. The fact is, this legislation is past 
due. Our Nation has seen gas prices skyrocket over the past 5 years. It 
now costs $50, $60, or $70 to fill up a tank with gas. In my State of 
California, this is a big deal. People often have to use at least 2 
tankfuls of gasoline, so instead of a tank at $20, if it is a tank at 
$70, instead of 4 times 20, which is $80, it is 4 times $70, just to 
drive to work.

In the long term, a key to reducing gas prices is to reduce demand 
for gasoline. By increasing fuel efficiency, we can reduce consumption 
and thereby reduce demand. Americans understand this. That is why, in 
poll after poll, the American people overwhelmingly support increased 
fuel efficiency. A poll published in April of this year by the New York 
Times and CBS shows that more than 90 percent of Americans favor 
legislation for acquiring more fuel efficient vehicles. Ninety percent. 
That is amazing. People want more fuel-efficient vehicles. A poll 
commissioned by the National Environmental Trust shows that more than 
80 percent of truck owners favor higher fuel economy standards. That 
was done between April 28 and May 1 of this year. These results are 
consistent all across ideologic and geographic divides. Simply put, 
Americans by large majorities want improved mileage on their 
automobiles.

Now, some question whether the standards in this legislation are 
achievable. You have only to look at what other nations are doing to 
see that, in fact, they are. Canada has proposed raising its fuel 
economy standard to 32 miles per gallon by 2010--32 miles per gallon by 
2010. Australia's fuel efficiency averages 29 miles per gallon and is 
expected to rise to 34 miles per gallon by 2010. Europe's fuel 
efficiency currently exceeds 40 miles per gallon, and that is expected 
to increase over the next few years. Japan's fuel efficiency averages 
46.3 miles per gallon and is expected to rise to 48 miles per gallon by 
2010. Even China will have a new vehicle fleet averaging 37 miles per 
gallon--not in 10 years, not in 5 years, but next year. So these 
standards have to be met by American automobile manufacturers 
manufacturing in China next year. They will have to meet 37 miles per 
gallon.

In the United States, it is 25 miles per gallon. This is really 
unacceptable. These higher standards are being met abroad by the same 
automakers who claim it is impossible to do it here in the United 
States. This includes BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford, General Motors, 
Porsche, Volkswagen, Honda, Mazda, Nissan, Subaru, and Toyota. All have 
agreed to push fuel economy well above 40 miles per gallon in Europe 
but say they cannot achieve these standards in the United States. Does 
that make sense to anybody in this body? I think not. Does it make 
sense to anyone in America? I think not.

Now, also, the simple truth is that the technology exists to achieve 
a 35-mile-per-gallon standard by 2020. Existing technology can do it. 
So as Detroit complains it can't do this or it can't do that, the 
National Academy of Sciences says it can.

This is what they tell us:




 We can increase the fuel economy--


This is what they say can be done, the National Academy of Sciences--



 of mid-sized SUVs to 34 miles per gallon with existing 


 technology, large cars to 39 miles per gallon with existing 


 technology, minivans to nearly 37 miles per gallon with 


 existing technology, and large pickups to nearly 30 miles per 


 gallon with existing technology. When you average all of this 


 together, you will find that the fleet could achieve 37 miles 


 per gallon, 2 miles more than this measure envisions.


This is a conservative estimate. The National Academy of Sciences 
study measured cost-effectiveness based on $1.50 per gallon as opposed 
to today's $3 per gallon. So now you can see how conservative it is. 
The academy didn't consider hybrids and other emerging technologies 
such as the popular Toyota Prius, just the standard American 
automobiles. So it is quite possible that even greater increases in 
fuel economy could be achieved.

Now, how can this all be done? By using existing technology and 
simple design improvements. Let me give my colleagues some of the 
things for which the technology already exists: better aerodynamics, 
alternater improvements, engine friction reduction, using more 
efficient transmissions, electric power steering, electric water pump, 
reduced engine friction, and using only engine cylinders that are 
necessary. These changes still could be made to great effect.


A 2006 study by the Canadian Government concluded that the cost-
effective technologies identified by the 2002 National Academy of 
Sciences report remain available and more cost-effective than ever. Our 
current fleet is more powerful, accelerates more quickly, and brakes 
more effectively. But with all of these advances, there is one critical 
design feature we have not improved at all in 25 years: Today's cars 
get the lowest number of miles to the


gallon since 1988. That is 20 years ago--the lowest number of miles to 
the gallon since 1988. This has to change.

I would say to all of those who want to fight this because they think 
it is too strong and because Detroit objects to it that the handwriting 
has been on the wall for a long time and Detroit has not come in and 
made a suggestion. All of this scientific evidence indicates that 
Detroit can meet these standards, that the technology exists to meet 
these standards, that they are doing it in other countries but for some 
reason they have buffaloed the Congress of the United States into 
believing you can do it in China, you can do it in Europe, but you 
can't do it in the greatest economic power on Earth--the United States 
of America.

Some also say we can't increase fuel economy without reducing safety, 
but this also is simply not true. A recent study by groups, including 
the International Council on Clean Transportation, has concluded that 
no tradeoff--no tradeoff--is required between fuel economy and vehicle 
safety. The conclusion of this report is consistent with the conclusion 
of numerous other studies. Let me quote directly from the report:




 Vehicle fuel economy can be increased without affecting 


 safety, and vice versa.


That is on page 2 of their report.




 Advanced materials allow vehicles to be both bigger and 


 lighter, providing multiple ways to improve safety and fuel 


 economy without sacrificing functionality. Fuel economy can 


 be dramatically improved without compromising safety. Safety 


 can be bolstered without sacrificing fuel economy.


That is on page 17 of their study.

There is technology in place today to be used to increase safety 
without sacrificing fuel economy. Let me just give my colleagues a few 
examples: seatbelt reminders, window curtain airbags, lower bumpers, 
electronic stability control, improved body structure, seatbelts that 
tighten if a vehicle were to roll over. It seems to me that is such a 
simple thing, that if automobile manufacturers wanted to improve 
safety, they would do that.

We saw what happened to a former colleague of ours who was not 
wearing a seatbelt. Nobody can challenge that seatbelts don't make one 
of the biggest safety improvements in the history of the automobile. 
When the Governor's crash took place, everybody else essentially was OK 
in the car except for Governor Corzine, and he didn't have his seatbelt 
on. If anything is clear evidence of the safety of seatbelts, this is 
it. So safety can be improved without an effect on fuel economy.

This legislation includes a provision that will help improve safety. 
It directs the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration to 
issue a rule that seeks to reduce incompatibility between SUVs and 
passenger vehicles. This could be done through measures which ensure 
that bumpers hit bumpers in the event of an accident. I just saw this 
coming to work today, where a Sedan had rear-ended an SUV, and you saw 
the difference because of the inequality of the bumpers. This happened 
just a few blocks away.

In response to the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Ford assembly plant 
in Richmond, CA, switched from making cars to assembling Jeeps, tanks, 
and armored cars. By July 1942, just 6 months after the bombing, the 
Richmond Tank Depot and the women who worked there were supplying our 
Armed Forces with the best military hardware in the world.

Technology, paired with American ingenuity and hard work, helped us 
prevail in that struggle and has been a key ingredient of America's 
unprecedented wealth and security.

Today, we face a much different threat. It is the threat of our 
Nation's addiction to fossil fuels--to oil--and what that will do to 
our economy, to our environment, and to our foreign policy if we don't 
change our ways.

These are serious questions and they deserve a serious response. 
Increasing fuel economy is not a silver bullet. I am the first one to 
say that. It won't solve problems by itself. However, it is a major 
piece of the puzzle. We have the best universities in the world, the 
strongest financial system, and the best workers. We can do this. We 
can make these improvements. We can lead the way. We have only to find 
the political will.

I am very proud the bill before us now contains this legislation. I 
believe, as I have tried to describe--and I apologize for the length of 
this statement--that it is compatible with the needs of Detroit; that 
the legislation is drafted to respond to those needs by the class-to-
class comparison, to avoid what always has been in every discussion on 
this floor the greatest threat to Detroit, which is to compare a small 
car to a large car and, therefore, make it difficult for them to 
manufacture large cars. This will not do that. I hope it will be voted 
on.

I very much thank the Chair. I know Senator Snowe was going to come 
to the floor and, hopefully, she will.

I yield the floor.