---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `9b82ef8da342f2f050995027f78ba47c`
`Mr. McCONNELL — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today Senate Republicans will agree to 
move to debate on an important question, and that question is this: 
Should a majority of Senators direct activities in the war in Iraq? 
Republicans are eager to engage in this debate on the Reid resolution 
because it is different in kind from any of the previous Democratic 
proposals--very, very different.

It is unprecedented in the powers it would arrogate to Congress in a 
time of war. It is a clear statement of retreat--a clear statement of 
retreat from the support that the Senate only recently gave to GEN 
David Petraeus, and its passage would be absolutely fatal to our 
mission in Iraq.

Previous resolutions proposed by the Democrats were a mere statement 
of opinion or of sentiment. This one has a binding quality. It would 
interfere with the President and General Petraeus's operational 
authority to conduct the war in Iraq as he and his commanders see fit. 
It would substitute for their judgment the judgment of 535 Members of 
Congress.

The judgment they have made in this, that Iraq is simply a 
distraction on the Global War on terror and that U.S. troops should 
begin to withdraw in months, with all combat forces leaving within a 
year--that is the judgment that the Reid proposal makes. This is the 
memo that our enemies have been waiting for. Osama bin Laden and his 
followers have repeatedly said that the United States does


not have the stomach for a long fight with the terrorists. Passage of 
the Reid joint resolution will be the first concrete sign since 
September 11, 2001, that he was right on target.

Timetables are bad, but don't just take my word for it. Speaking at 
the National Press Club in 2005, my good friend, the majority leader 
himself, said this:




 As for setting a timeline, as we learned in the Balkans, 


 that's not a wise decision, because it only empowers those 


 who don't want us there, and it doesn't work well to do that.


Six months after the majority leader made that observation, the 
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Biden, said this:




 A deadline for pulling out . . . will only encourage our 


 enemies to wait us out. . . . [It would be] a Lebanon in 


 1985, and God knows where it would go from there.


That was our friend, Joe Biden, the chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee.

Shortly after Senator Biden's observation, Senator Clinton made the 
same point, just 3 months after that:




 I don't believe it's smart to set a date for withdrawal.


Said Senator Clinton:




 I don't think you should ever telegraph your intentions to 


 the enemy so they can await you.


That is the majority leader, the chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, and a prominent Democratic candidate for President, all on 
the wisdom of what this Reid proposal proposes to do, just a short time 
back.

Surely Senators Reid, Biden, and Clinton have not changed their minds 
about who would benefit the most--who would benefit the most if we set 
a date certain for withdrawal. They know just as well as I do that this 
is just what the terrorists have been waiting for and just what our 
allies in Iraq and the entire region of the world have feared.

Setting a date certain for withdrawal will send a chill up the spine 
of every Iraqi who has dared to stand with America. Millions of good 
men and women have helped us in this fight. Since we arrived in Iraq, 
nearly 120,000 Iraqis have volunteered to serve in their Army. More 
than 8,000 Iraqis have died in uniform to defend the fledgling 
democracy over there. And, recently, in Anbar Province, we are told 
that roughly 1,000 Sunnis volunteered for a police force over a couple 
of weeks.

These brave men and women are watching what we do. They know, as we 
do, that chaos will engulf Iraq and the rest of the region on that day. 
They know they and their families will likely face a firing squad soon 
after we leave. The message we send them with this resolution is this: 
Good luck.

General Petraeus understands the importance of the mission in Iraq 
and his new mission to secure Baghdad. In a recent letter to the 
soldiers under his command, he wrote as follows--General Petraeus said:




 The enemies of Iraq will shrink at no act, however 


 barbaric. They will do all they can to shake the confidence 


 of the people and to convince the world that this effort is 


 doomed. We must not underestimate them. Together with our 


 Iraqi partners, we must defeat those who oppose the new Iraq. 


 We cannot allow mass murderers to hold the initiative. We 


 must strike them relentlessly. We and our Iraqi partners must 


 set the terms of the struggle, not our enemies. And together, 


 we must prevail.


That is General Petraeus just recently. These are the words of the 
man this body sent to Iraq unanimously. They are the words of a 
military commander, confident yet realistic and committed above all to 
victory. This is the voice of courage and resolve in the face of 
danger. We do best to listen to voices such as this, which speak of 
victory rather than defeat and withdrawal. We owe it to him, his 
soldiers, our allies and the world.

Republicans are ready for this debate.

I have some more time, I gather?