---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `9b8669e0665bcf1211b0c199a643343c`
`Mr. LEWIS of Georgia — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I want to thank my friend and 
colleague from Ohio for bringing this resolution before us today.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to join my colleagues in speaking out 
against the war in Afghanistan. How much death must we bear, how much 
pain must we suffer, how much blood should we spill before we say 
enough is enough? Can we lay down the burden of war and lift up the 
power of peace?

Now is the time for the elected representatives of the people to give 
peace a chance. Now is the time for those of us who believe in peace, 
and not war, to speak up, to speak out, and to find a way to get in the 
way.

Madam Speaker, war is bloody, war is messy. It tends not just to hide 
the truth, but to sacrifice the truth, to bury the truth. It destroys 
the hopes, the dreams, and the aspirations of a people.

As one great general and President of the United States, Dwight D. 
Eisenhower, once said, ''Every gun that is made, every warship 
launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from 
those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and not clothed.''

As I said some time ago, I urge to heed the words of the spiritual: 
''I'm going to lay my burden down, down by the riverside. I ain't gonna 
study war no more.'' We should follow the wisdom of that song.

Madam Speaker, this war has gone on long enough. Enough is enough. It 
is time to bring this war to an end. I urge all of my colleagues to 
vote for this resolution.