---
---

# None
## `9b91ee947dbb1ef96fc3292d75ece6fa`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. If I could just say, as we have increased the 
number, the incubation that a lot of our friends on the other side have 
supported, where more and more not only insurgents, but as Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz has said, more and more al Qaeda, more and more 
terrorists; so if you have a situation where you only have, for the 
sake of the example, 100 al Qaeda, and then we have the war, and now we 
have 1,000 al Qaeda, and then the President says well, we need to fight 
them over there or they are going to come over here, we have 900 more 
coming gunning for the United States because of the inability to 
actually execute this war.



To say we are making progress, and we have some amazing ability to 
find some of this information out, the number of hours per day of 
electricity in Baghdad prior to the war was between 16 and 24 hours a 
day. Now in May of 2007, the number of hours per day average 5.6 hours 
per day. That is feeding the problem that we are having over there.

Production of barrels per day prior to the war, 2.5 million. 
Production of barrels per day in May 2007, 2.16 million, so almost 
400,000 less than prewar production.

Unemployment rate in Iraq went from 20 up to 40 percent in December 
of 2006. This problem has increased. I know our friends on the other 
side of the aisle continue to try to tell us there are improvements, 
but the statistics tell us otherwise.