# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9b95495996cabc297240f2adb6910493`
`Mr. MERKLEY — 29 April 2009`

---


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I rise today in remembrance of one of 
Oregon's finest young men, PFC Richard Dewater. A former resident of 
Grants Pass, OR, PFC Richard Dewater tragically lost his life on April 
15 while on patrol in Afghanistan. PFC Richard Dewater will be flown 
back to Oregon and laid to rest in Roseberg National Cemetery.

Private First Class Dewater was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 26th 
Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division based 
out of Fort Hood, TX. Private First Class Dewater was deployed to 
Afghanistan in July in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Afghanistan. Just days before his death, Private First Class Dewater's 
brigade ambushed a Taliban unit near Korengal Valley.

Joining the U.S. Army was something Private First Class Dewater was 
extremely passionate about. Ever since Private First Class Dewater was 
a young child he wanted to become a soldier. Private First Class 
Dewater loved the work he was doing and was very proud of his service 
in the military. He also enjoyed fishing and camping and considered 
Grants Pass, OR, to be his home. Private First Class Dewater was a 
devoted husband to his wife Valerie, whom he married in Topeka, KS, 
back in June 2008.

I offer my heartfelt prayers and condolences to Private First Class 
Dewater's wife Valerie, his family and friends. I am forever grateful 
for Private First Class Dewater's service and his dedication to our 
country. Private First Class Dewater was a courageous and selfless man 
and deserves to be remembered for his valiant service. I ask that my 
fellow Oregonians and all Americans join me in honoring PFC Richard 
Dewater and the sacrifice he and his family have made for our country.













 Sergeant LeRoy O. Webster
