---
---

# FOOD SAFETY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `9ba6f2251c2d8bf3b186ba6b5c762e91`
`Ms. DeLAURO — 30 July 2009`

---


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, what is this bill about? What is it about?

Food-borne illness in the United States of America kills 5,000 people 
every single year.

We went to war in Iraq and Afghanistan when 3,000 people, unbeknownst 
that when they went to work that day that they weren't coming home, and 
we went to war in Afghanistan as a result.

We know that 5,000 people every year die of a food-borne illness and 
an illness, my friends, that can be prevented.

Stand with the mother and the father of a 2-year-old child, the 
parents who went to the grocery store and brought home spinach or 
lettuce or sprouts or tomatoes and their child died because of E.coli. 
Stand with the son and daughter of an elderly person in a nursing home 
who ate a peanut-based product and wound up dying because of that, 
having survived illness. That's what this bill is all about.

We can prevent food-borne illness in the United States of America. We 
can prevent 5,000 deaths every year. That's what this bill is focused 
on. It is of critical importance. It is about the health and the safety 
of American families. That health and safety is not only threatened in 
airports and border checkpoints or harbor containers. It's in fridges, 
on kitchen tables.

And for too long the cornerstone of our food safety system, the FDA, 
has only rudimentary, ancient tools and an outdated mandate at its 
disposal. This bill rectifies that oversight. It gives the FDA the 
means to deal with the dangers that are posed by our global food 
system. It enhances the agency's ability to stem microbial illnesses, 
prevent contamination before it happens.

It looks at risk-based inspection and says, what are the foods that 
are at highest risk? Let's set up some performance standards to deal 
with that. Let's put mechanisms in place so that we can trace the 
contamination and make sure we find it and find it quickly, protect the 
public health, and, yes, protect industry as well. That was part of 
this effort as well.

Performance standards are the backbone for monitoring an effective 
process and a control system. I would urge the FDA to develop testing 
protocols for each performance standard that it sets. This would 
include ongoing industry testing programs, supported by periodic 
sampling by the FDA.