---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9bb0bab26dae69b258b34d70b69ce2d6`
`Mr. WEBB — 26 September 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I would like to add to the comments made by 
my colleague from Missouri about the Truman Commission follow-on that 
we have jointly introduced, along with other freshmen Members on the 
Democratic side, the Independent side, and with a total of 27 
cosponsors as of this morning.

I don't think there is a more important or volatile issue, in terms 
of Government accountability, than the issue of the expenditures that 
have gone into Iraq and Afghanistan and the accountability of not only 
contractors but of the quasi-military forces operating there. We have 
put a great deal of effort into designing a wartime commission that was 
inspired by the Truman Commission in World War II but has its own 
uniqueness, given the issues of today. I am very proud to be one of the 
original sponsors on this amendment. I hope Members on both sides of 
the aisle can support it.

We are attempting, in a fair way, with experts in the field--not 
simply a group of Senators forming a panel, bringing in experts from 
the areas, experts in competence from the areas they would be looking 
at in a short period of time, 2 years--to examine the amounts of money 
that have been spent, where this money has gone, to try to bring some 
accountability into the system and to make their reports, in some cases 
with legal accountability, and then to wrap it up and go home. This is 
not an attempt to create a permanent standing organization but, rather, 
one that can come in with the right people, take a look at what went 
wrong, make a report to the American people and, in some cases, give 
them their money back, since all of these now nearly a trillion dollars 
have been spent on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan without a lot of 
accountability--that is taxpayer money--to try to find out how it was 
spent.

In most cases, it has been spent properly. But in those cases where 
it has not, we want to get people their money back and get 
accountability to the people who did not spend it back. This is about 
improved transparency. It would be forward looking in terms of looking 
at systemic problems and attempting to address them.

It is more than that. This amendment is supported by nearly every 
major taxpayer watchdog group. We are now, with the present state of 
the Department of Defense and of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
outsourcing war in ways that we have never seen before in our history. 
Hundreds of billions of dollars have been allocated for reconstruction 
and for wartime support, creating a strong potential for fraud, waste, 
and abuse. This commission will ensure financial accountability in 
those areas where there has been fraud, waste, and abuse with 
provisions that allow for legal accountability in cases of wrongdoing.

It also will look at such organizations as Blackwater, which has 
recently been in the news for the alleged series of wrongful killings 
of Iraqis and excessive use of force. This is an area that has slid 
past us as a representative government which is a cause for great 
concern for anyone who has been involved in national security affairs 
over the years. We now have in Iraq 180,000 contractors working in a 
war where there are 160,000 troops. They are doing a whole panorama of 
chores that traditionally have been done by military people, all the 
way from operating the mess halls to providing security for even, on 
some occasions, General Petraeus himself. There is no accountability, 
none, in terms of legal accountability for actions that have been taken 
that result in inappropriate use of force and, in some cases, wrongful 
deaths of people in the area. This committee would help address that.


We are also looking at basic contractor accountability. As one 
example, not long ago the Special Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction reported that of the $32 billion at that time that had 
been spent on reconstruction and relief funds--this is State Department 
programs--$9 billion was unaccounted for. We need desperately to have 
an independent, fair, objective analysis of what has happened, what is 
happening, not only for accountability but also to help us design a 
structure for the future. Again, we are not trying to create a new 
bureaucracy. The commission will rely on the inspectors general in 
agencies that already exist for most of the analysis. We are sunsetting 
the provision at 2 years. We are very comfortable with SIGIR's 
excellent performance in uncovering waste, fraud, and abuse in Iraq of 
reconstruction projects. We believe that is proof of the ability to do 
this on a more comprehensive and thorough level.

I strongly urge our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to lay 
aside political differences and come together with the reality that all 
of us have an obligation to put accountability into the system for the 
American people and, in some cases, to give people back the money they 
spend in tax dollars for programs that were wrongfully carried out or, 
in some cases, not carried out at all.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.