# COMMENDING THE MEMBERS OF THE NEVADA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AND AIR  NATIONAL GUARD
## `9bb21b832631f5548777ffd05cb74729`
`Ms. BERKLEY — 30 July 2008`

---


Ms. BERKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague, Congressman 
Ellsworth, for giving me a few moments of his time in order to sing the 
praises of Nevada's National Guard. I particularly want to thank my 
colleague from Nevada, Dean Heller, for having the good sense and good 
taste to introduce this resolution honoring our National Guard. I am 
very grateful to him for that.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution and in deep 
gratitude to the members of the Nevada National Guard who have made so 
many sacrifices to serve our country and my home State of Nevada.

Since 9/11, more than 1,850 of our soldiers have mobilized to support 
the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. That's 64 percent of our Nevada 
Guardsmen deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan. As we speak, 263 Nevada 
National Guard members are serving on active duty in support of a 
number of operations around the world, with 136 of them currently 
serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

These brave men and women have had to endure years of separation in 
long and difficult tours of duty overseas. Their service takes an 
enormous toll on them and their families, and this resolution is just a 
small token of our appreciation. Some of them have made the ultimate 
sacrifice, and for that we will forever be in their debt and the debt 
of their loved ones.

I want to highlight the actions of just one of these brave soldiers. 
Specialist Douglas Pierce of the 221st Cavalry was recently presented 
the Army Commendation Medal with Valor for his actions in Iraq on June 
3, 2007. Specialist Pierce was providing escort security when his 
convoy came under attack. After escorting the convoy out of danger, 
Pierce returned to the area under enemy fire to provide medical aid to 
wounded soldiers. He didn't have to go back into the area, but because 
of his brave action, one of the soldiers he assisted is alive today and 
recovering at Walter Reed Hospital.

I am also proud that this Congress is giving back to those like 
Specialist Pierce who have served our country so bravely. We recently 
updated the GI Bill for the 21st century, increasing education benefits 
for those who have served since 9/11, including reservists and members 
of our National Guard. We have once again restored our promise to our 
veterans by guaranteeing a 4-year education for those returning from 
Iraq and Afghanistan and providing members of the National Guard with 
the tools they need to succeed in the workplace. And, at long last, we 
have finally given the same benefits to our National Guardsmen as we 
have long provided the rest of our Armed Forces.

Mr. Speaker, the debt we owe to our soldiers can never be fully 
repaid, but I hope this Congress, and I'm confident that this Congress, 
will continue to support them as much as we possibly can.

I urge support for this resolution. Before I yield back, I want to 
thank my colleague from Nevada once again, Mr. Heller, for introducing 
this resolution. I appreciate it, and I know the Guardsmen and their 
families do as well.