# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `9bbebdb90ab3a8f85f2ced72d740b1c6`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois â€” 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. 
Con. Res. 248, and I commend the gentleman, my friend from Ohio, for 
his introduction of it.

Madam Speaker, I yield to no man, no woman in terms of my support for 
the heroic sacrifices that our troops in the military make each and 
every day of their lives and each and every day of our lives. They make 
sacrifices on the battlefield. They fight the wars. We are elected to 
be decision makers, and we can decide whether there is war or whether 
there is peace or, at the very least, whether there is peaceful 
pursuit.



I believe, as the people do in my congressional district, that there 
is a time and a season for everything, and after several years of war 
and hundreds and thousands of casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan, that 
the time has come for us to draw a line in the sand and say that it is 
time to bring our troops home. It is time to have a concrete strategy 
and a concrete date by which we can extricate ourselves from 
Afghanistan.

I want to commend the gentleman from Ohio for having the courage and 
the strength of his conviction to provide the opportunity to debate 
this issue. The people in my congressional district unequivocally and 
without a doubt are in agreement, and I strongly support passage of 
this resolution.