---
---

# NOMINATION OF LESLIE SOUTHWICK
## `9bc9e7a3a9e74596ec2facf1a85f6d4e`
`Mr. HATCH — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as the discussion over immigration reform 
demonstrates, this body confronts tough issues and can find itself 
embroiled in some contentious debates.

Over the years, it has not been uncommon to see judicial appointment 
debates at the top of the list of contentious debates. And during those 
debates, we have seen a lot of tactics and methods used.

But some tactics are simply wrong.

Some methods are simply inappropriate.

There are some means which no ends can justify. Some of these wrong 
tactics, inappropriate methods, and illegitimate means have been used 
to attack the nomination of Leslie Southwick to the U.S. Court of 
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

If we care about the integrity of this body and the good of the 
judicial branch, if we really believe that there is something more 
important than raw ideological politics, we should reject this attack 
on this good man and confirm his nomination.

Judge Southwick, who served for a dozen years on the Mississippi 
Court of Appeals, has received a unanimous well qualified rating from 
the American Bar Association.

He has the strong support of his home State Senators, both of whom 
are Senior Members.

He would fill a judicial emergency vacancy.

And though it has been obscured by all the hyperbolic, vitriolic, and 
over-the-top rhetoric now thrown about, the Judiciary Committee just 
months ago approved without objection Judge Southwick's nomination. 
Now, for whatever reason, the nomination is in limbo--first it is on 
the committee agenda without action and now not on the committee agenda 
at all.

The committee looked at the same qualifications, the same record, the 
same man with the same character, and found no objection whatsoever.

The only difference--which is really a distinction without a 
difference--is that Judge Southwick was then nominated to the U.S. 
District Court but now has been nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals.

The disturbing tactics being used against this nominee are certainly 
not new, and they are no more legitimate or persuasive now than when 
they have been used against other nominees in the past.

Frankly, I am amazed that anyone finds them credible, let alone 
persuasive.

Judge Southwick served on the Mississippi Court of Appeals for 12 
years.

It is not credible to focus only on a few cases among the 7,000 in 
which he participated and the nearly 1,000 opinions he wrote.

It is not credible to focus only on the results of those few cases, 
ignoring the facts and the law.

It is not credible to demand that judges render decisions that serve 
certain political interests, whether or not the law actually requires 
that result.

It is not credible to attack Judge Southwick for phrases or language 
in opinions he did not write.

It is not credible to ignore the limitations imposed on appeals court 
judges by the standard of review they must follow.

It is not credible to say that a judicial ruling against a particular 
party amounts to a judge's personal hostility against a group to which 
that party might belong.

These are some of the misleading tactics that we have seen used 
against judicial nominees in the past and are being used against Judge 
Southwick now.

These tactics are simply not credible, and I am amazed that my 
Democratic colleagues seem to be going along with them.

One of the sure signs that such illegitimate tactics are in play is 
that they result in a distorted, twisted caricature of a nominee that 
those who have long known and worked with him simply do not recognize.

Richard Roberts, former president of the Mississippi bar, for 
example, says that no other lawyer in the State is as qualified as 
Judge Southwick to serve on the Fifth Circuit.

According to Phillip McIntosh, associate dean at the Mississippi 
College School of Law where Judge Southwick now teaches, a politically 
and racially diverse faculty unanimously approved Judge Southwick for a 
faculty position with no question about his integrity, fairness, or 
impartiality.

A. La'Verne Edney, an African-American partner at Judge Southwick's 
former law firm, clerked for him on the Mississippi Court of Appeals.

He says that Judge Southwick applied the law fairly without regard to 
the parties' affiliation, color, or stature.

These and other colleagues and partners of Judge Southwick know him 
best.

I can only imagine their shock and confusion over the wildly 
derogatory and extreme descriptions offered by Judge Southwick's 
Washington-based critics.

I can only imagine the reaction by those who know Judge Southwick 
when those who do not know him make such claims without knowing what 
they are talking about.

I think my colleagues would agree that the American Bar Association 
has never been accused of a conservative bias.

And I think we would all agree that the ABA conducts perhaps the most 
exhaustive and thorough evaluation of judicial nominees.

The ABA looks at the whole record; the ABA interviews dozens of 
people in each case.

Let me remind everyone that the previous nominee to this very same 
Fifth Circuit position ran into trouble when the ABA rated him not 
qualified.

My Democratic colleagues thought that was the most insightful, 
thorough, accurate, and definitive evaluation ever done on any nominee 
to any position anywhere.

The same ABA has unanimously given Judge Southwick its highest well 
qualified rating.

That means, according to the ABA's own description of its rating 
criteria, that Judge Southwick gets the highest marks for such things 
as compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias and commitment to 
equal justice.

So here is the choice we face.

On the one side, critics who do not know and have not worked with 
Judge Southwick look only at the results of just a few cases and claim 
Judge Southwick has hostile views on issues such as race, when there is 
no indication by anybody in Mississippi or otherwise that he has any 
such hostility.

On the other side, the ABA and those who do know and have worked with 
Judge Southwick look at his entire record and gave him the highest 
marks for compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias and commitment 
to equal justice under the law.

These two radically different pictures of this nominee cannot both be 
true.

I think the tactics and standards used by Judge Southwick's critics 
are wrong and illegitimate, and the conclusions about him based on 
those tactics are simply not credible. I think they know that.

And they certainly do not justify doing an about-face and voting 
against a nominee who, just months ago, received the Judiciary 
Committee's unanimous support.

Illegitimate tactics leading to less than credible conclusions do not 
justify disregarding the judgment of our colleagues, the Senators from 
Mississippi, who are this nominee's home State Senators.

Let me close with one more point.

In their opposition letter, the Congressional Black Caucus says that 
we ''should be impressed by the frequency with which Southwick's 
opinions and concurrences have been overruled.'' That is pure, 
unadulterated hogwash.

Judge Southwick authored 927 opinions and concurrences while on the 
Mississippi Court of Appeals and only 21 of them have been either 
reversed or even criticized by the Mississippi Supreme Court in 12 
years. I don't know of many judges who have such an unblemished record.

I must say that I am indeed impressed by the frequency with which 
Judge Southwick's opinions and concurrences have been overruled.

I am very impressed with such a low reversal rate over such a long 
period of distinguished judicial service.

And I note that Kay Cobb, former presiding justice of the Mississippi 
Supreme Court, the court that reviewed Judge Southwick's decisions, has 
written with enthusiastic support of his nomination.



Justice Cobb, unlike Judge Southwick's critics, has known him for 
many years and highlights his attention to promoting fairness and 
equality.

Judge Southwick has served his community, volunteering with Habitat 
for Humanity since 1993.

He volunteered to serve his country in the Mississippi National Guard 
and by joining a line combat unit that served in Iraq.

Only months ago, the Judiciary Committee found Judge Southwick's 
qualifications and character sufficient to report his district court 
nomination without a single objection.

Judge Southwick today is the same man with the same qualifications, 
the same ability, the same character, and the same commitment to the 
rule of law.

He has the strong support of his home State Senators--both of whom 
are highly respected--and should be given the opportunity to serve on 
the Fifth Circuit.

The Judiciary Committee should report his nomination, and the Senate 
should confirm him, without delay, or a manifest injustice will have 
occurred and will led to even more antagonism between the two sides of 
this body.

We have been used to some of these tactics in the last 2 months of a 
President's tenure, maybe even the last 6 months, but hardly ever 
against a person of this man's qualifications, and then we have usually 
knocked that type of criticism down, as decent, honorable Senators 
should knock them down. Frankly, this President will serve for another 
year and a half. He has appointed a sterling, good man who deserves to 
be brought before the Senate and confirmed. I hope my colleagues will 
stop this tragedy and put this man on the court. He deserves it. He 
will be great on the court. He will be a person who will be fair and 
decent for everybody. I have every confidence in him.

I ask unanimous consent that the letters to which I referred be 
printed in the Record.