---
---

# AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009
## `9bca83e10a3d8ffe8fc5cba4b3b55e60`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 5 February 2009`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, this morning a number of us went to 
the National Prayer Breakfast--I saw the Senator from North Carolina 
there--which is always a wonderful event. It was especially a good 
event today because our new President was there for the first time. I 
think we would agree that he got a tremendous reception. We prayed for 
him, we cheered him. We recognize he has become President at a 
difficult time in our Nation's history. And we want him to succeed. 
Because if he succeeds, our country succeeds, which is why this debate 
on this bill is so disappointing. This is the first big proposal by the 
new administration.

One New York Times columnist said, it is the first test. And what is 
this about? We all know what is it about, the economy is in tough 
shape. Many people have lost their jobs. Homes are being repossessed. 
IRA accounts are lower. People are worried.

So we are hoping that in this first test we--the President and the 
Congress--will get an A-plus, flying colors. What are we seeking to do? 
We are seeking to get the economy moving again. Is that not right? Is 
that not what this is about? Is that not what a stimulus bill is?

We have got a bad economy. We have housing foreclosures. Whatever 
action we take, we want to get the economy moving again. And we want to 
keep in mind while we are doing this that we have a big debt in this 
country. I do not mean just the Federal Government has a debt, because 
it is a Government debt owed by the people of this country.

USA Today the other day did an estimate that showed each of our 
American families has a share of about $500,000 of that debt and future 
obligations based on promises the government has already made. So the 
Alexander family has got a $500,000 share of that debt and future 
obligations. The Grassley family does. The Hagan family does. The 
Baucus family does. We each have that. So we have to keep that in mind.

What shall we do? The Senator from Montana said, everyone seems to 
agree, we need to spend some money. And the proposal that has come 
toward us certainly does meet that test. It would spend $900 billion. 
And if you add the interest to that over 10 years, which is the way we 
usually think about things, that is $1.2 or $1.3 trillion.

How much money is this we are talking about spending? Well, the 
former chairman of the Budget Committee, the Senator from New Mexico, 
Mr. Domenici, called me yesterday. He has been doing some figuring, and 
he figured it took from the beginning of the Republic when George 
Washington was the President until the early 1980s for the United 
States of America to pile up a cumulative debt of $850 billion.

What we are proposing to do is to spend in this one bill, by the end 
of this week or next week, as much money as the debt this country piled 
up between George Washington's Presidency and Ronald Reagan's 
Presidency. That is a lot of money. According to the newspaper 
Politico, it is more than we have spent in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is 
more money than we have spent, in today's dollars, going to the Moon. 
It is more money than the Government spent on the New Deal in today's 
dollars. It is almost as much money as NASA has spent in its entire 
existence. We are proposing to spend that in this one bill, nearly $1 
trillion.

The Senator from Montana said, well, we are all concerned about the 
debt. I wonder if we are if the first thing we are going to do is 
borrow $1 trillion. This is not money we have in the drawer here. It is 
not over here in the Senate cloakroom. It is out in the future 
somewhere. We are going to borrow half of it from the Chinese and other 
people around the world, and then somebody--us, our children, and our 
grandchildren--is going to have to pay it back.

So what standards should we use if we are going to borrow some money 
to get the economy started, money that we are going to have to pay 
back, a lot of money? Well, the Speaker of the House, Ms. Pelosi, gave 
us a standard for what a real stimulus package is. Last year, when we 
saw the beginnings of this downturn and we acted in a bipartisan way to 
swiftly try to spend some money to be of some help, she said: It must 
be timely, targeted, and temporary.

This is timely. But it is not targeted. It is not temporary, which is 
what I wish to talk about. Last night we had a chance to help make it 
more targeted and more temporary. Senator McCain offered an amendment 
to the Senate that said, we are for a stimulus package. We believe it 
ought to be targeted, for example, on housing and letting people keep 
more of their own money, and on plans and programs that will create 
jobs in the first year. That would be what we are for in terms of 
stimulus.

But he said, let me make one other suggestion, and he offered an 
amendment to us which would say this: When the economy recovers, the 
stimulus spending stops. That was the McCain amendment. When the 
economy recovers, the stimulus spending stops. Because if what we are 
doing here is borrowing money from every American family and spending 
it with a hope that it helps the economy get going this year, once the 
economy gets going, has not the rationale disappeared for spending that 
money?

We spend a lot of other money around here. We know that we have 
annual appropriations bills. We have got banks in trouble. We have got 
housing in trouble. So the McCain amendment said: After two quarters of 
a 2-percent increase in the gross domestic product, the money that we 
have borrowed to spend to get the economy going again stops.

That got 44 votes. So this body has already decided that this is not 
a temporary stimulus bill.

It is ongoing. So let no one think the trillion dollars proposed to 
be spent is temporary. Let no one think it is about stimulus. I guess 
every time you spend a government dollar, there is a little bit of 
stimulus, I suppose. But I asked


my staff working on appropriations to go over the $900 billion. Here is 
what they found. They said there is approximately $135 billion of 
spending that will directly create jobs, including building 
construction, road construction, locks and dams, environmental cleanup, 
and national cemetery repair. And only $53 billion of the $135 billion 
is spent in the next 18 months. If this is a bill about creating jobs 
this year, if that is the reason we are taking this extravagant debt 
and adding more to it than we spent in the entire New Deal in today's 
dollars, that is not very targeted. The bill is neither temporary nor 
targeted.

What is our responsibility on the Republican side to deal with this? 
Our responsibility is to offer a better idea.

Our President has said--and we agree--that one way we need to change 
Washington is that we need to work across the aisle to get results on 
big issues, results that work. That is why I am in government. I did 
that when I was a Republican Governor in Tennessee with a Democratic 
legislature. I believe I have a good record of bipartisan cooperation 
in the Senate, whether it is President Bush or President Obama. I 
worked with Senator Lieberman and now with Senator Barrasso and Senator 
Pryor to create a bipartisan breakfast every Tuesday morning. The 
Senator from North Carolina came to the breakfast the last 2 weeks. We 
have talked about the debt and how the entitlement programs--Social 
Security, Medicare, and Medicaid--are creating a crisis in that debt. 
Social Security is a part of the problem. Medicaid and Medicare is a 
bigger part. Almost 70 percent of all the money we spend in the Federal 
Government within about 7 or 8 years will go to Social Security, 
Medicaid, and Medicare. That leaves only 30 percent for everything 
else. It also suggests that by the year 2015, we will be spending 100 
percent of our annual gross domestic product; it would take that much 
money to pay off our debt.

Let me remind colleagues that the United States produces year in and 
year out about 25 or 28 percent of all the money in the world. So we 
are headed toward a situation where, in a few years, it would take 25 
percent to 28 percent of all the money produced in the world in 1 year 
to pay off the national debt of the United States.

In a budget hearing the other day with Senators Conrad and Gregg, we 
asked the witnesses: What is the problem? How much debt can you have? 
They said: That is kind of general, but 40 percent is where the United 
States is, 40 percent of GDP. All of this we are talking about in the 
next few weeks may take us up to 60 percent. That is getting close to 
trouble. Eighty percent is trouble, and 100 percent is a big problem.

Unlike the 1960s or the 1970s, when we owed our debt to ourselves, 
when it was much smaller, now we owe half of it to people around the 
world who may or may not want to continue buying our debt.

Our debt has to be in our minds when we think about borrowing money. 
We need to apply the Pelosi principle to the stimulus. Temporary? No, 
it is not. Yesterday, 44 votes said yes. The rest said no, we would 
like for it to go on a long time. Targeted? No, it is not. Only $135 
billion out of $900 billion is aimed toward creating jobs. Only $53 
billion of that is spent in the next 18 months.

So what can we do to improve this? On our side, we have a number of 
proposals to do that. The pending amendment of Senator McCain is one. 
The amendment by Senator Ensign, which will be voted on today, is 
another. The amendment by Senator Isakson that was agreed to yesterday 
is the third.

Here is basically what we think we should be doing with this borrowed 
money: No. 1, we would fix housing first. We would reorient the 
stimulus bill away from spending money indefinitely, mostly on programs 
that do not create jobs in the first year, and spend it instead to 
restart housing because housing is what got us into this problem. 
Housing will help get us out of the problem. We have some specific 
ideas about doing that.

Second, we would let the American people keep more of the money they 
have. That is stimulative. Letting them keep it permanently is the most 
stimulative thing we could do. Senator McCain proposes reducing the 
payroll tax and reducing the lowest level of income tax rates. Those 
are for working people, people who make less--not more--money.

The third thing we would do is cut the size of the bill and focus it 
on those projects that create jobs now.

When we say fix housing first, we mean, to begin with, the $15,000 
housing credit. If you want to buy a house during the year 2009, you 
get a $15,000 tax credit. That is real money. You can put it in your 
pocket this year, if you buy a house.

The second thing we would propose is the Ensign amendment, which 
would lower mortgage interest rates for all creditworthy Americans. 
Forty million Americans could take advantage of a rate that would be 
between 4 and 4.5 percent. We would put a cap on it, so it would not 
cost taxpayers more than about $300 billion, but most economists with 
whom we have talked say it is more like $30 billion.

What would be the value of a lower interest rate backed by the 
Treasury? It would mean, all across the country, instant jobs. People 
could borrow money. They would have incentive to do so because the 
average savings of someone who refinanced their home and got a 4- to 
4.5-percent interest rate would be approximately $400 a month for 30 
years, over the 30-year term of the rate. That is like a permanent tax 
cut. That money would be in their pockets. It could be spent. It would 
help stabilize the value of that home. That would help stabilize the 
value of homes on that block. That would put to work builders and 
contractors and plumbers and brokers and bankers. That would give banks 
origination fees so they could have income. And having income, they 
might have enough money and confidence to start lending. Then this 
economy could keep moving at a relatively small cost. That is what we 
mean by fixing housing first.

Senator McCain and Senator Graham have in their proposals legislation 
to help those individuals whose homes are being foreclosed.

If we could sit down in a bipartisan way and agree that we want to 
follow the Pelosi principle and make this temporary and targeted and 
that we should start by fixing housing first, I believe we could agree 
across the aisle to deal with housing and create instant jobs. We might 
have less debate about tax cuts, although the President has suggested 
that we reduce some middle-income taxes. We have suggested the same.

The third thing would be, as Alice Rivlin, former Budget Director for 
a Democratic President, said: We really ought to have two bills. One 
would be a bill for long-term investments, many of which I fought for 
for years in terms of American competitiveness. They are good for the 
country but don't take effect right away. The other bill, which we need 
to move on quickly, would be those programs, such as road construction, 
building construction, locks and dams, and national park maintenance, 
that would create jobs today. Then we could come to the American people 
and say: Mr. and Mrs. America, you have a big debt, $500,000 per 
family, but we, across party lines, have looked at the situation. We 
need a stimulus. Perhaps it should be $400 billion or $500 billion at 
the start. But we will not start with how much we are going to spend; 
we are going to start with what can we do that would work.

Fix housing first, lower interest rate mortgages, a $15,000 tax 
credit for home buyers, help for those in foreclosures. Next, keep more 
of your own money in your pockets. That is the payroll tax and cutting 
rates. Finally, we might spend $100 billion or $150 billion by 
accelerating Government programs we will have to do anyway and get 
those jobs coming this year. That would be a responsible, bipartisan 
way to go about this.

This bill, as it is presently headed toward passage, is a colossal 
mistake. It is not temporary. It is not targeted. It is not primarily 
creating jobs. It is not a stimulus bill. It is mostly a spending bill. 
It is not money we have; it is money we are borrowing. It is a huge 
amount of money, more money in today's dollars than the Government 
spent on the New Deal, on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, on the war 
in Vietnam, almost as much as we have spent on NASA over its life, a 
huge amount of borrowed money not targeted. Although it is timely, we 
are rushing it through.



I am disappointed. I had expected better. I have heard the President 
say he wants to work on entitlements. We take him at his word. We have 
had two straight Tuesday morning breakfasts where we have sat around 
the table and said: This is going to be hard to do. We trust the 
President to get in here with us, and we will figure this out. But this 
is a bill written in the House. It looks as if they just got down in 
the drawer, and every spending program they could think of for the last 
40 years that didn't pass, they stuck it in. It might be good 20 years 
from now. It might be good tomorrow. But it is in there.

We won the election. We will write the bill. ''We won the election, 
we write the bill'' may technically work on a few pieces of 
legislation. But it will not help move our country forward. It will not 
be the basis for a successful Presidency. We won the election. We write 
the bill. This is easy, spending a trillion dollars. The majority just 
says: Hey, we have some money to spend. Let's grab all the programs we 
can think of and off we go. But what is coming is really hard.

Next week, the Secretary of the Treasury is likely to tell us we need 
several hundred billion to deal with toxic assets in banks. I am one of 
six Republican Senators who voted to give the new President the second 
amount of $350 billion so he could have that in his pocket to deal with 
this crisis. But it doesn't increase my appetite to help with the next 
$400 or $500 billion if we are going to start out by wasting nearly a 
trillion on programs not needed to fix the economy today.

And probably, since we are not dealing with housing in any 
significant way in this bill, the new administration may say: We 
decided we need to get housing going again. I think I would be inclined 
to say: Mr. Democratic Leader, Mr. President, that is what we said last 
week. But you said we had to pass a bill in a week. Why didn't we wait 
a week and see what the Treasury Secretary had to say about banking 
credits or about housing?

Then the next week we have $900 billion on an appropriations bill. 
And then, as Senator Baucus has said--and he is exactly right--health 
care is coming down the pike. I can't figure out a way that the health 
care bill, even the one I cosponsored with Senators Wyden and Bennett, 
is not going to cost us a lot more.

So why don't we put this all on the table and work across party 
lines? Technically, you don't have to do it. Technically, President 
Bush didn't have to have congressional approval to wage a war in Iraq. 
But he found and our Nation found that he would have a much more 
successful Presidency and we would have probably had a much easier war 
if we could have found some way to work together.

I am disappointed with this, beginning on a stimulus bill that does 
not meet the Pelosi principle of timely, targeted, and temporary. It is 
a colossal mistake in the way it is headed. We should fix housing 
first. Let people keep more of their own money. Strip out the spending 
programs that don't create jobs now. Deal with them separately, and get 
in the habit of accepting each other's best ideas on dealing with the 
biggest problems. We stand ready to do that.

We admire the new President and the tone he has set. We want him to 
succeed. This bill will not help our country succeed unless it is 
drastically amended this week.

I yield the floor.