---
---

# None
## `9bd36b3530c46a88441f7bbd71017af5`
`Mr. CASEY — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise to speak on behalf of S. Res. 494, 
which is a sense-of-the-Senate resolution I introduced yesterday 
calling upon the international community to fulfill previous pledges to 
provide reconstruction assistance to Iraq. I am joined in introducing 
this resolution by my colleague,


Senator Corker, from the great State of Tennessee. I am honored to have 
his support.

Our message is simple. It is long past time for other nations, 
especially Iraq's neighbors, to carry through on past promises and 
deliver the type of assistance that can help stabilize Iraq and allow 
for an orderly redeployment of U.S. combat troops from Iraq. Over the 
course of the next 2 weeks, the Senate will once again return to the 
Iraq war and the debate over future U.S. military presence in that 
country. It is no secret there is a sharp divide in the Congress over 
the next steps in Iraq. We have some fundamental differences, and it is 
essential that we debate these differences in an open manner. However, 
there is some common ground that all of us can find when it comes to 
Iraq. We can agree that America has already sacrificed too many of our 
finest and bravest young men and women in this conflict. We recently 
marked the grim toll of 4,000 Americans killed in combat there, 
including 183 natives of my home State of Pennsylvania. But the United 
States is also bearing the majority of the burden when it comes to 
financial assistance to the Iraqi Government for reconstruction 
activities. We bear this burden even though other nations and 
multilateral organizations, including the World Bank and the 
International Monetary Fund, have pledged but failed to implement 
significant sums toward Iraq's reconstruction. The United States bears 
this burden even as we spend millions of dollars every day on our 
military presence in Iraq. That is not right, and it cannot continue.

Our resolution calls upon other nations to carry through on previous 
pledges of reconstruction assistance to the Iraqi people who have been 
largely ignored. The resolution has been inspired by two recent 
reports, a December 2007 report from the Government Accountability 
Office, the GAO, and a January 2008 report from the inspector general 
for Iraqi reconstruction. The two reports document the following 
facts--just two, but they are alarming and disturbing--the United 
States has already spent roughly $29 billion on reconstruction 
assistance to Iraq, with another $16.5 billion in the pipeline having 
been authorized by Congress. That is fact No. 1, $29 billion spent, 
$16.5 billion on the way. As of last October, international donors have 
pledged a combined total of approximately $16 billion to support Iraq's 
reconstruction, but only $7 billion of the $16 billion has actually 
been disbursed to Iraqi governmental entities. This is a less than 50-
percent return when it comes to carrying out previous pledges, many of 
which date back to the year 2003.

There are some plausible explanations for why reconstruction funding 
has not flowed as quickly as we would like. Certainly corruption in the 
Iraqi Government remains a serious problem. The hazardous conditions in 
many parts of Iraq have impeded reconstruction projects. But these same 
constraints apply to the U.S. Government and our construction funding. 
There is no reason the United States has spent more than four times 
what the rest of the world combined has spent when it comes to 
reconstruction assistance to the Iraqi Government. I don't need to 
remind anyone in this Chamber or in the country of our economic 
challenges at home. The war in Iraq is exacting a significant toll on 
our Nation's Treasury. The United States cannot afford to continue to 
subsidize reconstruction assistance to Iraq while other nations remain 
on the sidelines.

The lack of participation by other international donors, especially 
Iraq's neighbors, incurs diplomatic and political costs as well. When 
the United States is seen as the principal source of reconstruction 
funding in Iraq, and when those reconstruction activities falter, it is 
America that is unfairly blamed in the eyes of the Iraqi people. Five 
years after we invaded Iraq, much of the nation continues to experience 
power shortages and rolling blackouts. The Iraqi people view this state 
of affairs as America's responsibility. That is why the Iraq Study 
Group, more than a year ago, recommended multilateral support for Iraqi 
reconstruction, including ''greater involvement by and with 
international partners who should do more than just contribute money. 
They should actively participate in the design and construction of 
projects.'' So said the Iraq Study Group more than a year ago.

It is all too rare for a Democrat and a Republican to find some 
shared ground today on the issue of Iraq. The fact that two Members of 
the Senate, both members of the Foreign Relations Committee from 
different parties, have found common cause on one aspect of our 
presence there should tell us something. There is no reason the United 
States, already having borne a massive cost in terms of military 
resources expended and precious lives of our bravest men and women 
lost, should continue to be on the hook for the majority of 
reconstruction funding in Iraq. Reconstruction funding for Iraq is 
important, and it is time Iraq's neighbors, major international 
organizations, and other nations step to the plate.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.