---
---

# None
## `9be5466c28ad1df645722624af381c07`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 16 July 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank you. It is always 
an honor to come before the House and the 30-Something Working Group, 
running some 5 or 6 years strong now, coming to the floor on behalf of 
the American people with fact not fiction. We know that in this day and 
time it is easy to be misled. And I don't know if it is something that 
someone means to do or doesn't mean to do, but it happens sometimes. We 
take great pride in not only having footnotes for what we do and what 
we say, but making sure that we have the facts to back up what we are 
sharing with the Members.

Every 30-Something Working Group we start off by sharing with the 
Members what is happening in Iraq. As of today, July 16, 2008, by 10 
a.m., total casualties in Operation Iraqi Freedom is 4,121; total 
number wounded in action returned to duty, 16,901; and total number 
wounded in action not returning to duty is 3,508.

I think it is very important that we continue to pay close attention 
to that issue of what is happening right now in Iraq and what is 
happening in many of the American families that we cherish and 
celebrate and honor that are military families that are having to worry 
about their loved ones in harm's way. We have to keep that at the 
forefront.

As you know, over the past 2 weeks Members have been coming to the 
floor speaking on the issue of energy. I am happy to not only report 
but continue to say it wasn't until this Democratic Congress when it 
was elected, Mr. Speaker, and Members, to lead on behalf of the 
American people that once upon a time in the 108th Congress and 109th 
Congress, we talked about if given the opportunity to lead what we 
would do.

It is one thing in politics to talk about if you give me a chance, 
this is what I will do. I will go to Washington, DC, and make this or 
that happen. It is a good thing because we have actually moved in that 
direction.

I couldn't help but hear my colleagues who I have a great deal of 
respect for, but I may disagree with from time to time. I can tell you 
in light of me disagreeing with them, I am just so happy that I do have 
fact on my side and on the side of the American people because we have 
been trying to move this Congress and we have done so with the American 
people's help in electing a Democratic majority Congress.

But we have not been able to overcome the executive branch which is 
the Bush White House. I think it is also important for us to understand 
that this whole issue of how we got to $4.30-something gas was not 
engineered by anyone on the Democratic side of the aisle. I think the 
policies, the energy policies that were set forth by the Bush 
administration, the 2001 meeting which took place in Vice President 
Cheney's part of the White House, the working group on energy, the 
108th Congress and the 109th Congress who worked very hard to, and the 
Congress before that, the Republican-led Congresses which worked hard 
to follow this policy that the Bush administration set out to please 
oil companies that has led us into the prices that we are paying here 
today.

I have to lay that out, Mr. Speaker, to get to what Democrats have 
done. I am going to do that very quickly because I think I am on the 
side of solutions versus argument. But for the Members to understand 
what the solutions should be and the direction that we should be 
running in at a very fast pace or run or sprint is one of fact and not 
fiction.

You would have a number of Members in this Congress believe and the 
American people believe that with two


oil men in the White House we would have some sort of solution as it 
relates to this issue of oil, but that is not the case.

As we continue to deal with this issue of oil only, because it seems 
like that is what the Republican side is talking about, it seems to be 
a part of the problem and not the solution.

If you want to resolve something, you have to start looking at doing 
things differently. You can't do the same thing expecting different 
results. When you look at oil and you look at the number of those who 
have given their life in Iraq, and the reason why Iraq is so important 
to this country is based on energy. If we had action when the Bush 
administration took over the executive branch and when the Republicans 
had the opportunity to lead, well, it was already there according to 
economists and others, but if they would have had the courage to stand 
up against Big Oil and say no, we know what you want, but the studies 
have shown we need to start looking toward alternative fuel, we need to 
start being innovative and deal with cafe standards and make sure that 
our vehicles get more mileage. We have to incentivize through tax 
incentives Detroit and other auto-making parts of America, that we want 
vehicles that run on less fuel. But no, that was not the argument. That 
was not what the Republican majority pushed towards. They kept pushing 
towards this kind of cake and ice cream experience with the oil 
industry.

I have nothing against the oil industry. Some neighborhoods they may 
say I am not mad at the oil industry, but I think it is important to 
note that the only way they could have gotten away with what they have 
gotten away with is with the help of individuals that were in those 
Congresses previous to this Congress, the Democratic-led Congress. The 
only way they got what they are celebrating now is because there is two 
oil men in the White House. It is well-documented. It is not just me 
saying that. Anyone can go on the Internet and get this information 
because that's where their history has been.



I have a couple of charts here: 8 years of Bush, two oil men in the 
White House, $4 a gallon gas. I mean, I just leave it up to your 
imagination. I am just one Member of Congress that has a theory, not a 
theory, but following fact.

What are some of the great ideas on the other side? Well, let's drill 
in the Arctic wildlife refuge. Let's do that. I think that's important. 
Yes, let's drill. That was last Congress' argument. Some have said this 
Congress has a solution. I am not talking fiction, I am talking fact.

That would only bring about 1.8 cents per gallon savings in 2025. Now 
that's 2025. That's not talking about right now, Members. That's not 
talking about how families are trying to figure out how they are going 
to, when they are looking at their vehicles and knowing they are no 
longer going to be able to afford to take their kids to extracurricular 
activities, in some cases not even being able to take them to school, 
in some cases having to walk to make it to religious events, whichever 
their religion may be, because they can't afford fuel.

Some have had to turn off certain things like cable television or had 
to do away with certain activities that their children were involved in 
or philanthropic contributions, at their own level, but it was just $10 
or $50 a month to make the world better. They had to cut back on that, 
put it in the tank.

But this is what the Republicans were talking about and Democrats 
fought them back. I talked about the 2001 meeting that took place in 
the White House. It is well documented, well documented.

I can tell you, when I come back to the floor, I am going to bring my 
chart out that I used to bring, actually the letter that talked about, 
and the news report, from the Washington Post, it talked about the 
meeting that took place in 2001.

I know this is hard to see for many of the Members, but in 2002, that 
meeting started to pay off for Big Oil. Meanwhile, our Republican 
colleagues, who were in the majority, just stood idly by, and turned 
the other cheek. There was no problem with oil. There was no problem.

The alternative, why do we have to deal with that when we have oil? 
Why do we have to deal with that when we have over 143 troops that are 
in Iraq that's protecting the Iraqi oil, and we have our Commander in 
Chief holding the hand of the Saudi Arabian king. We have those 
relationships.

Meanwhile, our constituents, Members, people here in America are not 
celebrating what these oil companies are celebrating. Again, I have 
nothing against oil companies, they are doing what they do in a capital 
society, but they are only allowed to do this because of the Republican 
past Congress. Remember, I want to make sure the Members know. I'm 
coming to what we did in this Congress and what role you played in that 
solution towards bringing gas prices down, or, what I may add, energy 
prices.

In 2000, the record-breaking profits of some $30 billion; 2003, 
again, breaking records, $59 billion; 2004, $82 billion for the oil 
companies and profits; 2005, $109 billion in profits; 2006, $118 
billion. It's, again, climbing, and in 2007, $23.3 billion in profits 
for oil companies based on the Republican-led energy initiatives.

Now they are in the minority, they are now saying, well, we can't get 
what we want on the table. They have already voted to drill in not only 
environmentally sensitive places, but places that the oil companies 
have not even started to drill in yet. We just gave out a whole bunch 
of leases to the oil companies. They are not even using 80-some odd 
percent of those leases that have been allowed, they have been allowed 
to drill. They haven't done it.

So it's almost like having a full plate of food. Imagine you at home, 
okay, and sitting around the table, Big Oil with food just falling off 
all ends of the plate, something real heavy like a big steak or 
something, and mashed potatoes and beans, you know, rolling all over 
the table, saying we need more. That's what they are saying as it 
relates to more leases, more drilling. We need more. Okay.

Imagine the individual that's going there to fill the tank with very 
little on their plate, because they can't afford to put food on their 
plate because they are too busy paying what we are looking at in these 
record-breaking profits for these oil companies, with very little on 
their plate, if anything at all. When you start talking about more 
drilling, more drilling, you know, it doesn't add up because you have 
talked about some of these issues.

Let me just mention something here. I am so glad that I got this 
because I asked for it. I couldn't happen but see the President 
yesterday quoted in his press conference. We started talking about 
issues as it relates to oil, I mean, drilling. The President says a 
lot, so it's kind of hard to try to deal with what he is saying. But he 
said that, in so many words, and I will go ahead, because it's a lot of 
words here that he used to describe one thing, in his remarks, he said 
that drilling will not deal with the oil prices tomorrow. It won't give 
us the relief that we're looking for.

That's what the President said yesterday on his press conference. Now 
you can go on pretty much to cnn.com, any other Web site that would 
have the transcript, but basically we pull these remarks from the 
transcript. I want to make sure that we get a chart so that people can 
see it, and we may want to put it on our Web site.

Now, on the Democratic side, we have talked about a number of 
initiatives. Our comprehensive strategy has been about not only 
incentivizing wind, solar, geothermal, hydro and American-grown 
biofuels, but also promote energy, like I mentioned, energy efficiency, 
efficient cars, buildings. The greening of the Capitol is already under 
way and has happened. Actually, I wrote a piece this month in the 
Capital File Magazine talking about what we are doing here in the 
Capitol to green the Capitol and save our environment and lead by 
example.

The Speaker is leading that in a very special way, making homes and 
appliances more energy efficient, boosting American innovation and 
research, reward conservation, expedite responsible American drilling 
and also telling Big Oil to use it or lose it. Basically, when you are 
looking at all the leases that are out there, all the opportunities 
that Big Oil has right now, but, better yet, it's almost like what we


call the Potomac two-step, because I think that's what the Republican 
side is doing and the White House is doing.

They are saying drill, drill, drill, because, guess what, that's 
what's been putting gas in their tank, I think, politically, because 
the oil companies believe that they are our friends.

The Democrats, they are the problem, because we are talking about 
alternative fuel. We are talking about conserving. We are talking about 
investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. So we are disrupting, 
when I say we, the American people who voted for this new Congress that 
we celebrate now, voted for this fact-not-fiction Congress, voted for 
this new-direction Congress, they voted for change. Republicans are 
still here singing a song that these oil companies have put on a sheet 
and started talking about we need to drill to create jobs.

Well, guess what, why haven't they done it with all of the leases 
that are out there right now and all of the jobs that need to be 
created. If Big Oil, based on the profits that they have made, can turn 
this whole economy around and take us out of this recession that some 
speak of, just with the snap of their fingers, but, guess what, there 
is something that we call stockholders. They want their money.

They want those dollars to be placed. They don't want to employ 
people. That will have something to do with my bottom line. So when 
folks start coming to the floor and start talking about oh, we drill $2 
gas, I look forward to that. But we are going to get there doing the 
same thing, doing the same thing expecting different results.

It's almost like going to the refrigerator, pulling out a carton of 
milk and saying oh, wow, it's spoiled, put it back in, maybe it will be 
fresh tomorrow. That doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense to keep 
doing the same thing.

Now, let me just mention here what we have done, and this is, as I 
understand, on the Speaker's Web site, www.speaker.gov. I think this is 
important because this is in the Congressional Record and also 
Congressional Action. Now law because of what the Democrats have done 
here. The farm bill which is an historic investment in affordable 
biofuel and also beefed up oversight on market manipulation. House bill 
2419. The President's veto was overridden.

Now this is the President. You would think, you out there paying this 
gas, you are paying this big-time deal for gas. We are trying to find 
some competition for Saudi Arabia and other OPEC countries saying, 
guess what, we're not going to have to hold your hand walking down some 
park, our Commander in Chief. We're not going to have to go to war in 
the Middle East because we have to protect the oil so that we can 
continue to run our vehicles. We're going to come up with our own bill. 
We're going to come up with our own way of building energy in a clean 
way.

And to those that believe in shipping jobs overseas, we're going to 
create green jobs while we're at it. We are going to make sure that 
Americans have jobs from those that just have a GED or no high school 
diploma at all, to those that are architects and have postgraduate 
studies and who have gone on to do so many things in our society, 
everyone gets to work in a green society. That's what we are creating, 
and that's what that farm bill moved, but we had to override the 
President on May 21, 2008, with a vote of 316-108, and the Democrats 
moved in that direction.

I think it's important that everyone understand what's taking place 
here, because when folks come to the floor and talk about they have the 
answer, many of these individuals have not even voted for the bills 
that would do exactly what they are talking about doing. This is fact. 
That's not fiction. Thanks to the Members, we did override with some 
Republican support. But if it wasn't for the Democratic leadership, 
this would have never, never happened.

The veto threat, Renewable Energy and Jobs Act, H.R. 6049, passed on 
May 21. The Democrats, we voted 263-160. I think it's important that 
everyone understands that that vote came about with 228 Democrats 
voting in the affirmative versus 35 Republicans voting in the 
affirmative with 159 Republicans voting against it.

Another veto threat, which is Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act 
holding OPEC, which is, you know, the oil companies accountable for 
price fixing, H.R. 6074, again. We have the President that has put out 
a veto threat. That bill passed the House on May 20, this year, 324 
voting in the affirmative, 84 Republicans voting against it, now law. 
This is the legislation that we put forth, never would have been law if 
we wouldn't have put it forth. When I say we, I'm saying the Democrats 
here in Congress.

The Strategic Petroleum Reserve Fill Suspension and Consumer 
Protection Act, H.R. 6022. I think it's important that you look at 
this. It passed May 13, 2008, some 385-25. I think it's important that 
we look at the fact that all Democrats voted for it, 223 voting, 
Republicans voted in the affirmative, 162-25. That issue, that's now 
law.

Repeal subsidies to profit-rich big oil companies, invest in 
renewable energy and fuel efficiency, H.R. 5351, passed February 27. It 
passed by a 236 vote, 182 voting against the legislation. 219 Democrats 
voted in the affirmative, 8 voted against. The Republicans, 17 voted 
for, 174 voted against. You have got to think about that, you have got 
to think about the whole issue, and that has been threatened by the 
President that he is going to veto it.

Now, we start talking about the profits that we use, because the real 
issue is that we need money to come up with alternative fuel. But, 
again, when it comes down to standing up to Big Oil, cricket sounds on 
the other side. You know, all bold when it's talking about what 
Democrats won't let us do. That's interesting, because I have been in 
Congress under Republican leadership for 4 years, and I have only been 
in Congress for a year and some change under the Democratic leadership 
and I can't believe some of the arguments that are coming out on the 
other side about what they can't do when they've had all of these years 
to do it.

The American people, I am not talking about Democrats, I am talking 
about Republicans. I am talking about independents. I am taking about 
first-time voters, and say, guess what, if you are going to do what you 
do for Big Oil, then we're going to find somebody else to represent us, 
and they did.



And the numbers within the double digits on the Republican side are 
now watching me here on the floor, talking to the Members, Mr. Speaker, 
because they made the wrong decisions because they followed leadership. 
We're going to talk about that in a minute right after this chart. They 
followed their Republican leadership that led them into a hole, and 
that hole is right in the La-Z-Boy at home, checking this fact-not 
fiction piece that I'm giving here on the floor. When you look at that 
vote, that's telling in itself.

Now law. Energy independence law and market manipulation banned and 
new vehicle mileage standards: H.R. 6. It was passed on December 18 of 
2007. 314 votes. The Democrats voted in the affirmative. 100 voted 
against, Republicans. 219 Democrats voted in the affirmative. Only 4 
Democrats voted against it. Republicans were 95 voting in the 
affirmative and 96 voting against it. That's now law. It never would 
have been if it weren't for a Democratic-led Congress bringing about 
that kind of justice on behalf of the American people.

The America Competes Act with energy, research and the development of 
clean energy and technologies: H.R. 2272. It passed into law--it is now 
law--on August 2, 2007. 369 Democrats voted in the affirmative. There 
was an overall vote of 369 to 57 Republicans who voted against it.

Veto threat. Crack down on gas price gouging. Like my pastor would 
say, I'm going to read that again. Crack down on gas price gouging: 
H.R. 1252. It passed on May 23 of 2007 with 284 voting in the 
affirmative and 141 voting against it. On the Democrat side, 228 voting 
in the affirmative, 1 Democrat voting against it. On the Republican 
side, 56 Republicans voting for it, 140 against it.

That's part of the solution there. I think that's something we need 
to look at and something that the President has said that he's going to 
veto.

Veto threat, holding OPEC accountable, oil price fixing, again, 
that's standing up to Big Oil. That's standing up to the Middle East, 
saying we're no longer going to let you lead us by the


nose. We're going to take responsibility for our own energy. It passed 
May 22, 2007 with 345 voting in the affirmative and 72 voting against. 
The President has said that he's going to veto it.

Now, when we start talking about who's doing what and who's not, you 
may see these pieces of paper here, but basically, we just covered up 
the names of the Republican leadership because that's just a personal 
policy of mine, Mr. Speaker. I just don't want to, you know, ''out'' 
these individuals because, I think, the record speaks for itself, but 
I'm still making the point, and they know who they are.

This is the Republican leadership from top to bottom, and I think 
that it's important that everyone pays attention to this. As to some of 
the legislation that I read off, these very individuals voted against 
it, and I think that's the reason we see the kind of discourse from the 
other side of the aisle in talking about the old direction versus the 
new direction. They will throw some new direction stuff in there, 
knowing that, you know, they really don't mean it. You know, we had the 
opportunity to do it, but we didn't do it, but we're going to criticize 
the other side and say they haven't done it.

We have done it. It is the body of several pieces of legislation that 
have not only become law but that are in the process of becoming law if 
there were a President in the White House who would allow it to become 
law.

You remember that old bill on Capitol Hill. This goes down to the 
majority leader. This goes all the way down to the whip and to the 
Republican Conference Chair. We have the policy Chairs and all. If you 
will look at when it came down to OPEC price fixing, the two top 
leaders on the Republican side voted against that legislation. The No. 
5 leadership, No. 6 and No. 7 voted against it.

When you look at the price-gouging legislation that we passed, when 
we were looking for that leadership of coming together in a bipartisan 
way, the top Republican leader voted against it. The whip voted against 
it. The third in charge voted against it. The fifth in charge voted 
against it. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth voted against it and 
on down the line. This is not fiction. This is fact, okay? This is the 
Congressional Record.

Renewable energy. The first man voted against it over on the 
Republican side and the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, 
eighth, and ninth, all the way down. Now, if I'm wrong, somebody come 
and tell me I'm wrong. I don't think so. This is in the Congressional 
Record.

Energy security. The top voted against it. If you jump down, No. 4 
voted against it as well as No. 5, No. 6, No. 7, and No. 8.

So, when folks come to the floor and start talking about ''we have a 
plan'' and ''we know the answer,'' show me the beef, like that Wendy's 
commercial used to go. You know, it used to say, ''Now show me the 
beef.'' I want to know where it is. I don't see it.

I've just come to the floor just to share a little bit because I'm 
glad that my constituents in the 17th Congressional District from South 
Florida federalized me to come here to provide this kind of 
representation and to be able to shed light on the action that has 
taken place. It's not over yet. We don't have everything that we need 
to be able to do the things that we need to do on behalf of our 
constituents because we still have some rules over in the other body 
across the hall, and we still have the issue in the White House as it 
relates to the two architects, if I could put it that way, of our 
energy plan now, who are defending that plan to the end. They have 
talked about they're not going to do some of the things that we feel 
should be done now, things that a number of people have said that would 
help.

We talked about a number of issues as they relate to our passage of 
legislation, but one thing I left out on that chart that I think we 
need to share with the Members tonight is the Drill Responsibly in 
Leased Lands Act, which is called the DRILL Act. It mandates annual 
lease sales in the Alaska National Petroleum Reserve. It also has more 
oil than the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and the oil can be 
brought to the market more quickly.

It requires the Bush administration to facilitate the competition of 
oil pipeline infrastructure in the Reserve and to facilitate the 
construction of the Alaskan natural gas pipeline, and it bans the 
export of Alaskan oil outside of the U.S.

It also incorporates the ''use it or lose it'' legislation. I can 
tell you that it is compelling oil companies to start drilling on the 
68 million acres of undeveloped Federal oil reserves which they are 
currently warehousing or they are losing the ability to obtain the new 
leases. I think that it's important that we deal with those issues 
sooner rather than later.

Before I get into another part of my talk, here is my good friend, 
Representative Arcuri, from the great State of New York. We have been 
to a number of places together. We've been to Iraq, and we've also been 
on some other defense-related visits. I'm so glad that he's here to 
share a little bit about this issue of energy.