---
---

# IRAQ
## `9bea3bc3d69f13b3ee14148f0e3ed939`
`Mr. CARDIN — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, first, let me compliment and thank the 
assistant majority leader, the Senator from Illinois, for his 
consistent comments with regard to the U.S. role in Iraq. He has made 
it clear that the U.S. interest has not been served by these last 5 
years, that we have lost our focus on the war on terror. As he pointed 
out, we have real concerns, internationally, about terrorism, and we 
have been distracted, particularly in Afghanistan, because of the focus 
on Iraq.

He pointed out very clearly that the United States has invested so 
much--the lives of our soldiers, the cost to the taxpayers, those who 
have come back wounded. And what have we done this for? These soldiers 
deserve the right mission: that we concentrate on dealing with the war 
against terror, that we have the Iraqis take responsibility for their 
own country, particularly in the midst of civil war. A lot of this is 
just Iraqis fighting Iraqis--Shiites fighting Shiites for power--and 
the United States has sustained fighters on both sides, in some cases. 
This is so counterproductive to U.S. interests.

I congratulate the Senator and thank him for continuing to bring out 
these issues. We hope in the next 10 months there will be some changes. 
We also understand we have to transition to a different mission, 
considering the type of sacrifices that have been made by our troops 
and the taxpayers of this country. I thank him very much for his 
leadership.

Madam President, I was part of the Foreign Relations Committee 
yesterday when General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker testified before 
our committee. When I had the time, I started to thank, on behalf of 
the people of Maryland, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker and all 
the soldiers and all the diplomats who have served in Iraq. They have 
served with great distinction. I am humbled by their skills and 
sacrifices. I acknowledge the tremendous sacrifices that have been made 
by their families. But I must tell you, they deserve the right mission, 
what is in the best interests of the United States. How should we judge 
that progress? It is an interesting point, as to whether we have made 
satisfactory progress in Iraq.

Let me go back to January 10, 2007, when the President brought 
forward his ''New Way Forward in Iraq.'' His own words were that:




 If we increase our support at this crucial moment, and help 


 the Iraqis break the current cycle of violence, we can hasten 


 the day our troops begin coming home.


One of the reasons for the surge was to reduce our troop levels. But 
if we look at the presurge troop levels, it was 132,000 Americans; at 
the height of the surge last July, 160,000; and today, we have more 
than 140,000. We learned yesterday that General Petraeus believes we 
will be at that 140,000 level for the indefinite future, that there 
cannot be a commitment made at this stage to reduce our troop levels 
below 140,000. So at the end of the day we have more troops in Iraq 
rather than less.

The President stated in that same speech:




 Over time, we can expect . . . growing trust and 


 cooperation from Baghdad's residents. When this happens, 


 daily life will improve, Iraqis will gain confidence in their 


 leaders, and the government will have the breathing space it 


 needs to make progress in other critical areas.





As a result of that, benchmarks were established--not by the 
Congress, benchmarks were established by President Bush and his 
administration with the Iraqi Government. When you look at the progress 
we have made--let me use General Petraeus's comments that he made:




 No one [in the U.S. or the Iraqi government] feels that 


 there has been sufficient progress by any means in the areas 


 of national reconciliation or in the provision of basic 


 public services.


Only 3 of the 18 benchmarks have been satisfactorily met. The 
circumstances on the ground in Iraq are unsatisfactory. Iraqis are not 
getting the basic services they need.

I questioned Ambassador Crocker, and following up questions that I 
posed to a panel we had last week before the Foreign Relations 
Committee, a panel of retired generals, experts in this area, and that 
was: Can you name a national leader in Iraq who is willing to step 
forward to provide the type of leadership, make the necessary 
concessions so that you can have a government in Iraq that has the 
confidence of its people? Because that is what we need to make the 
political progress. No one could mention a person's name. Ambassador 
Crocker said--and I used the examples of South Africa and Northern 
Ireland, where you had people willing to step forward--Ambassador 
Crocker said:




 There is no Nelson Mandela in Iraq.


What an understatement that was. That was the understatement of our 
hearing.

We seem to be changing our goals as to what is success or what we are 
trying to achieve, what is in the best interests of America, what type 
of government we want in Iraq. Well, our expectations certainly have 
changed there. There is no expectation that we will have the type of 
strong national government that has the confidence of all the ethnic 
communities. We have changed the expectation as to what that Government 
in Iraq's relationship will be with Iran. We seem to acknowledge that 
it may, in fact, strengthen Iran. There is no agreement now that we 
need to reduce our troop levels--certainly by the administration's 
mission. They want to maintain the troop level at the current level 
with no commitment to reduce it. There is certainly no expectation to 
reduce the cost to U.S. taxpayers. We are going to get a supplemental 
appropriation asking for more money from the U.S. taxpayers.

We certainly have not focused on the major dangers against terrorism. 
If we did, we would be concentrating on Afghanistan, not spending so 
much effort in Iraq. The current situation yesterday was characterized 
by our experts as: fragile, uneven, reversible. We went through the 
current flare-ups in Basra and Baghdad where Shiite are fighting 
Shiite, a fight for power within Iraq with U.S. soldiers in the middle 
of that power struggle.

We went through the influence of Iran and that the U.S. soldiers' 
presence may, in fact, be generating more support for Iran within Iraq. 
So let's take a look at the facts: The United States is supporting 
warring parties within Iraq. The fact is, over 5 years, over 4,000 
soldiers have died, American soldiers; 30,000 American soldiers have 
been wounded.

I have visited them. I know these are life-changing injuries they 
will have to live with for the rest of their lives. Six hundred billion 
dollars and still counting of U.S. taxpayer money has been spent. This 
is a difficult mission for us to maintain. Look at our military. Our 
military is stretched. Look at our National Guards. I know what is 
happening in Maryland and our National Guard. They are serving with 
great distinction, but they are exhausted, and we need them in 
Maryland.

Look at our economy. We are losing jobs here in America. One reason 
is we are so focused on spending money in Iraq, we are not investing in 
our own country. Look what is happening on our fight against terrorism. 
Prior to our invasion of Iraq, there was no al-Qaida presence in Iraq. 
Now we have hundreds of thousands of troops, American and Iraqis, and a 
couple thousand al-Qaida, according to General Petraeus.

We are not focused on the war against terror, we are focused on a 
power struggle within Iraq, which should not be our focus. We need to 
do a better job in Afghanistan, but yet we are stuck in Iraq. We have 
no plan to draw down American troops. I find that unacceptable. That is 
not in the best interests of this country.

Let me mention one more aspect of what has happened in Iraq. This is 
factual: the number of displaced people, nearly 5 million now, nearly 5 
million displaced; 2 million in neighboring countries. General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker acknowledged that one of the reasons why 
violence in Baghdad is down is that the communities, the neighborhoods 
have been ethnically cleansed and people have left. They do not want to 
be in a violent neighborhood. They have left.

But they are displaced. What is going to happen to them? Nearly three 
million in Iraq alone. The United Nations High Commission on Refugees 
has said it is not safe for them to go back to their neighborhoods. 
What is going to happen? If we are talking about a solution for Iraq, 
we have got to take a look at the refugees. This is a humanitarian 
concern, it is a security concern, it is also a concern about stability 
in the region.

Let me give you one example. Jordan has now an extra 8 percent of its 
population as a result of refugees; an 8-percent increase. Now, if you 
used the same numbers in America, that would be 24 million, 24 million 
people coming to our country. Think about the stability of the region.

Well, my position has been clear. I have opposed the war since its 
inception. I opposed giving the President the right to use our military 
more than 5 years ago. I have opposed the manner in which this war has 
been conducted. But we are where we are. We cannot reverse history. 
Where do we go from here?

Well, we have 10 months left in this administration, 10 months to go, 
and the status quo is not what we need. We need to change course in 
Iraq, focus on the war on terror, rebuild and restrengthen our 
military. We have got to do that and stop spending $12 billion each 
month in Iraq at the expense of priorities right here at home. That is 
what we need to do starting immediately. We should not wait until the 
next election. We should start doing this today.

We need to change our mission. Our mission should be U.S. soldiers 
fighting terrorists, not refereeing community fights, neighborhood 
fights; American troops protecting our interests and helping transition 
the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own security.

We should draw down the U.S. troops, bring them home. The status quo 
is not acceptable, that is, 140,000 U.S. troops remaining in Iraq.

There was bipartisan recognition that the status quo is unacceptable. 
Several of our most distinguished Republican members of the Foreign 
Relations Committee made it clear that the status quo is not 
acceptable, yet this administration is trying to maintain the status 
quo for the next 10 months.

I hope we can change that. Public opinion is against the status quo. 
We know that. What we need is a surge in diplomacy. We need other 
countries that have a direct interest in what is happening in Iraq to 
step forward. We need to engage international organizations, the United 
Nations and the OSCE. We have to have the Iraqis step forward and take 
responsibility for the security of their own country. They have oil. We 
need the Iraqis to pay for the costs of their own defense. The American 
taxpayers should not be doing this.

One more thing I should talk about that we do not need: We do not 
need President Bush and the Iraqi Government negotiating a long-term 
security plan without Congressional approval. That would only restrict 
the options of the next administration or future Congresses. We should 
never allow that to happen.

The world has an interest in a safe and secure Iraq, but in working 
toward that end, we cannot ignore other competing needs around the 
world and at home. We need a more thoughtful approach that will bring 
our troops home, refocus our resources on al-Qaida, and Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, step up diplomatic efforts, and internalize the effort to 
bring stability to that country and to the Middle East.

I yield the floor.



