---
---

# EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE NEW POWER-SHARING GOVERNMENT IN NORTHERN  IRELAND
## `9bfb6fe3bd7ffc218d67fbad65124f88`
`Mr. WALSH of New York — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. WALSH of New York. I thank my good friend and colleague from 
Florida for giving me time to speak on this issue, and to my colleague 
from California, who brought this resolution to the floor, and my 
colleague from Texas.

This is a wonderful celebration of a great success for mankind, not 
just for the Irish, but for all of mankind. And it's an important and 
significant foreign policy success for the United States of America.

About 12 years ago, then-Speaker Gingrich asked me if I would be 
willing to chair the Friends of Ireland, an ad hoc organization within 
the Congress that had been begun by Tip O'Neill, and the tradition 
continued through Speaker Wright and Foley and then Gingrich. 
Historically it had been a Democratic Congress, and I was the first 
Republican to chair it. But we never missed a beat. The Democrats and 
the Republicans worked side by side. Both Houses, Senators Kennedy and 
Dodd, McConnell and Connie Mack worked hand in hand with Rich Neal, 
Pete King, myself, Ben Gilman, and so many others.

There is a real paradigm here for American foreign policy. If we can 
get everybody working together, we can solve I think pretty much 
anything in the world. But we played a part in this. The significant 
players were the British, beginning with John Major, and certainly Tony 
Blair, who focused on this all through his entire career. And also on 
the other island of Ireland, going all the way back to Elbert Reynolds 
and John Bruton, and then Bertie Ahern for the last 10 years. Every one 
of them, and again, different parties, different leaders, different 
philosophies, the same with the United States at the White House with 
President Clinton and then President Bush. Regardless of party, 
regardless of nationality, people all focused on what needed to be 
done.

I remember when I first took on this assignment, and what a labor of 
love for me, as an Irish-American, son of an Irish mother and an Irish 
father, when I first met David Tremble and I asked him, what do you 
expect to get from all of this? He said one word, Peace. And then 
subsequently, a day or so later, I had the chance to meet Gerry Adams 
and I asked Gerry Adams, what do you expect from all this? He said in 
three words, Peace with justice. And so I think both men showed 
remarkable patience and persistence through this process. And certainly 
now we have a government that combines the republican forces of 
Northern Ireland, Adams, McGuinness and others, and the loyalist forces 
led by Ian Paisley, Peter Robinson, Jeffrey Donaldson and others. It's 
a remarkable achievement. It's almost like having Sunnis and Shia 
working together in Iraq. Imagine that. It's possible.

But we should celebrate this victory as Americans, and as members of 
the family of man, because it is a great victory. We have taken a very, 
very dangerous place on the Earth and made it a peaceful place. We have 
seen the people of Northern Ireland, loyalists, nationalists, Catholic 
and Protestant, come together in one exercise, a democratic 
legislation. And it was that election, the election this spring, that 
really provided the coup de grace to violence and established democracy 
because all the parties participated and the people provided ultimately 
the leadership that was required to make this happen and gave their 
leaders the strength and the political capital to form this government.

So Tim Murphy and I and a number of others, Rich Neal, were in 
Ireland to watch Ian Paisley walk across the sidewalk in Dublin and 
shake hands with Bertie Ahern, say, I've got to grip this man's hand, 
give him a good grip. It was astounding. And the pictures of Gerry 
Adams and Martin McGuinness and Peter Robinson and Ian Paisley meeting 
together was an astounding picture that sent hope out to the entire 
world. So credit everyone. Victory has a thousand fathers and mothers. 
And we should all celebrate that.