# CREDIT CARDHOLDERS' BILL OF RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `9c07a661c4bc14c5048b413da2921bec`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 14 May 2009`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, there are several things toward the end of 
the week that I was wanting to elaborate a little bit on. They are kind 
of unrelated subjects, but we do not get this opportunity very often.

The whole idea of Guantanamo Bay is something that I know a lot of 
people have talked about. I was very proud at the inauguration when our 
new President, President Obama, gave a lot of statements that were, I 
thought, logical, and, frankly, a speech that I could very well 
have made--not as eloquently as he but from a content perspective.


He said, in relationship to the problem of Gitmo, or Guantanamo Bay, 
that, yes, we want to close that. However, we first must figure out 
what we are going to do with the detainees, recognizing that there are 
245 detainees, recognizing further that there will be more as there is 
an escalation in activity in Afghanistan and that there is no place 
else to put these people.

I felt pretty satisfied at that time that this great American 
resource we have called Guantanamo Bay is something we need to keep. It 
is one of the few good deals the Government has. We have had it since 
1903. It is a resource unlike anything else, not only in our holdings 
but anyplace in the world. It is a place where we have actually built a 
courtroom that will handle tribunals, that will handle cases with rules 
of evidence that would fit tribunals as opposed to our court system. I 
felt pretty comfortable knowing there is nothing that can be done with 
the 245 detainees. Many are very dangerous terrorists.

Since that time, he has changed his position. Now he is saying we 
will close it regardless. He has already closed the courtroom. This 
facility took 12 months to build. It cost $12 million. There is nothing 
else quite like it. If we are going to ever adjudicate these 
individuals, bring them to trial, we have to put them someplace. One of 
the alternatives would be our court system. Obviously, that is not a 
good idea. Most thinking people realize it is not a good idea because, 
the rules of evidence being different from what they are in a normal 
criminal case, most likely we would not get convictions. What happens 
when you don't get convictions? You turn people loose. If there is 
anything we don't want, it is terrorists being turned loose. The 
politics of that is such that people who want to close Guantanamo Bay 
are backing away from that issue, but they are still talking about 
closing it.

I have had occasion to be down there several times. The last time I 
was there, I used a new technology that I didn't understand too well: 
YouTube. I did a program down there from Guantanamo. I commented at 
that time: Here we are with about six levels of security for six levels 
of detainees. There is no place else like it where we can do something 
like this.

In terms of how they are treated, I have had them say, with a 
translator, that it is probably the best food they have ever had in 
their lives. There is one medical practitioner--in most cases, a 
doctor--for each two detainees. Where else will you find that? There 
are procedures that are offered to the detainees that they would never 
have offered anywhere else. For instance, when they offered a 
colonoscopy, which was described to the detainees in terms of what it 
entailed, they decided they didn't want it. Nonetheless, these were 
things that were offered in the way of health care.

In the case of torture, there has never been a documented case of 
waterboarding or any severe torture taking place there. I can remember 
the week after 9/11, when we had immediately a few people in there. I 
went down and found that our own troops who were stationed down there 
were not treated as well as the detainees.

Even if that were not true, there is no other place that we can put 
them. There has been a proposal that there are some 17 detention 
installations in the United States that would be suitable for these 
people. One of them happens to be Fort Sill, which happens to be in 
Oklahoma. I went to Fort Sill and talked to a young lady there who is a 
sergeant major. This is in Lawton, OK. I talked to her about this. She 
said: Senator, I have to ask you a question. Why is it that everyone is 
so concerned about closing Guantanamo Bay? This facility here is not 
nearly as suitable for detainees.

Then she went on to explain why this separation of people and of 
classes of security problems. She said: Besides that, I spent 2 years--
this is Sergeant Major Carter, stationed at Fort Sill--at Guantanamo 
Bay. That facility is better than any Federal facility we have.



Why is it we are so bent, just because of some ugly rumors that are 
not true about treatment of detainees, on closing a resource we have 
had and we are still paying $4,000 a year for, as we have been ever 
since 1903? You don't get many bargains like that in government. 
Anyway, they seem to be concerned about doing that.

I believe public pressure is going to come around on our side and 
common sense will prevail and we will not close that resource. We will 
need it in the future. We need it today. We have needed it in the past. 
It has served us well.

As this moves along, I hope the public knows there are several of us 
who are going to make sure we do not do anything that is going to allow 
some of these detainees to be floating around in the continental United 
States. If we are inclined to do this program where we put them in some 
17 installations, we will have 17 magnets for terrorism in the United 
States. That is not going to happen.













 The First One Hundred Days


I also wish to talk about the striking similarities between what is 
happening today and what happened back in 1993.

The first 100 days of President Obama's administration will be 
remembered for its unprecedented level of new Federal spending--no 
question about that; no Democrat or Republican can deny that--and the 
return to big government. This, together with his advocacy of far-left, 
liberal causes--everything from abortion rights, to gun control, to 
universal health care--will put him on a track to repeat the 
performance of 1993, when a very attractive, young Bill Clinton entered 
the Oval Office under the banner of change. After Americans realized 
that his so-called change was simply an extremely leftwing position, 
the American people revolted and put Republicans back in charge of 
Congress. If President Obama continues down this path, I would not be 
surprised to see that happen again in 2010.

Nothing is more indicative of the stark contrast between 
conservatives and liberals than the massive Government spending spree 
now underway in Washington. In his first year in office, Bill Clinton 
put forward what was then the largest budget to date in our history. It 
was $1.5 trillion. It included domestic spending of some $123 billion.

Now in this 100th day of President Obama's administration, the Senate 
is poised to vote on what would become the largest budget to date. This 
budget, which highlights his priorities, is the most radical and 
partisan budget we have ever seen. It includes $4.4 trillion in 
additional deficits and $3.5 trillion in total spending. Let's compare 
that to 1993. I was down on the floor complaining about a $1.5 trillion 
budget. This is a $3.5 trillion budget.

When I go back to Oklahoma, sometimes I come to the conclusion that 
there aren't any normal people in Washington, because they ask the 
question: Senator, how can we afford all this spending when we had a 
stimulus bill of $789 billion, increasing debt by $1.8 trillion in the 
first year, and a $3.5 trillion budget? Where is the money going to 
come from?

Here I am, the senior Senator from Oklahoma, and I can't answer the 
question. We do have choices. We can borrow. We can print it. It will 
have to be a combination of the above. We know all of the very damaging 
effects: $1 trillion in taxes on individuals and businesses, a $634 
billion downpayment for government-run health insurance. There is 
another similarity. Remember, in 1993 it was called Hillary health 
care. The concept was the Government can run a health care system 
better than people can. I always invite people who believe that to go 
spend some time in some of the hospitals up north; the Mayo Clinic and 
some others come to mind. See the number of people who are there who 
came over from Canada because they couldn't get treatment. Maybe their 
age was right above the federal guideline for a particular type of 
procedure, and they could no longer do it. Again, the similarities are 
so similar, 1993 and what is happening today. Then, of course, we had 
the Wall Street bailout and all of that.

I am very concerned about the direction this administration has 
proposed to take us. Anyone who works hard, plays by the rules, pays 
taxes, drives a car, turns on the lights, saves, invests, donates to 
charity, or plans to be successful should also be concerned.


Defense cuts--I probably am more concerned about this than most 
Members. I am the second ranking member of the Armed Services 
Committee. I have watched what is going on. To me, it is deplorable.

I happened to be in Afghanistan when Secretary Gates came out with 
Obama's defense cuts. They tried to claim they are not defense cuts. 
They are. It is just that they are talking about the DOD appropriations 
bill versus all the other funding sources that have been used before.

The best evidence that they are cuts is what has happened to our 
platforms. Right now, the F-22 is the only platform we have that is 
fifth-generation maturity. This is something he is stopping right now. 
We were originally supposed to have 750 F-22s. Now we will stop at 187. 
At the same time, you have China with its J-12, Russia with its SU 
series, a fifth-generation airplane. That is going to put us in a 
position where it will hurt and hurt bad.

The same thing is true with the Future Combat Systems. We have been 
working on that for 8 years now since Shinseki helped to start it. It 
is the first transition in ground capability in at least 50 years. This 
is something we have been working on so that we don't send our kids 
into battle against countries that might have a better artillery piece 
and better equipment than we. He axed that program.

How long has it been since we started working with the Parliament of 
Poland and the Czech Republic to get them to let us put a radar system 
in the Czech Republic and interceptor capability in Poland so that when 
Iran gets the capability of sending a nuclear missile over to western 
Europe or the eastern United States, we would have the ability to shoot 
it down? It didn't happen. The Parliaments that had to be politically 
pretty strong to agree to do that. Now they are sitting back and 
finding out that they are talking about axing that program too.

The airborne laser is the closest thing we have to knocking down a 
missile in the boost phase. We were coming along with that program. 
They axed that program too.

I am very concerned about what happens and what has happened in this 
budget to our capability of defending ourselves. Then I go back to 
1993. That is exactly what happened back then. If we look at the 8 
years of the Clinton administration, we cut military spending from what 
would be just a straight line by $412 billion in that period. Of 
course, we ended up cutting our military by about 40 percent over that 
period.

The bottom line is, all these programs were cut. I happened to be in 
Afghanistan when that happened. We did a report from over there. We 
could see the Bradleys driving by and the helicopters taking off, the 
bad weather, soldiers coming back from patrols and turning on the tube 
and finding out President Obama is going to gut the military. It is 
totally unacceptable. But that is the same thing that happened in 1993. 
It is deja vu all over again.

Gun control is the same. We see now that they are going to try to get 
us to sign on to a treaty that is called CIFTA, a treaty in the Western 
Hemisphere where we will all get together and we will allow Central 
America and Mexico and South America and Canada to determine what gun 
manufacturers can do. It is the first major step to gun control, in 
violation of second amendment rights. People care about that. It is 
exactly what happened with Bill Clinton in 1993.

Energy taxes--back when Bill Clinton was doing it, it was called the 
Btu tax. That stands for British thermal unit. It was a massive tax 
increase on energy and very similar to what they are trying to do right 
now--which, incidentally, I have no doubt we will stop them from being 
able to do--the cap-and-trade tax. One thing about the cap-and-trade 
tax, that is something that is not just a one-shot deal like the 
stimulus bill. That is every year. It would be somewhere around $350 
billion a year in taxes on the American people, a regressive tax 
because it is a tax on energy. People with lower incomes spend a larger 
percentage of their expendable income on that kind of energy than rich 
people do.

We are not going to let that happen. I tell all my friends, we have 
been fighting that battle now for 8 years,


and it is over. We are not going to let that happen in America. But 
that is what Bill Clinton tried to do in 1993. It is the same thing all 
over again.

We went through the same thing on abortion. I think personally there 
is no mission more important than standing up for the sanctity of human 
life. Here again, President Obama, like President Clinton, quickly 
moved to appease pro-abortion advocates.

Just a few days ago, the Senate confirmed Kathleen Sebelius for 
Secretary of Health and Human Services. As Governor of Kansas since 
2002, she has a clear record of supporting abortion and policies that I 
believe impact the health and safety of women and parental rights. 
Again, it is abortion. Either you are for it or against it. But this is 
one of the strong pro-abortion positions in 1993 that now we are 
getting again out of this administration.

So when you look at this, I cannot help but think that all the signs 
are there, that we are seeing the same thing now that we saw back in 
1993. I believe we are going to be positioned to keep a lot of these 
things from happening, No. 1, and No. 2, let's remember what happened 
in 1993. Young, attractive Bill Clinton went in as President of the 
United States, and he had the House and he had the Senate, and he had 
it all just as President Obama has it all. He has the House and the 
Senate. Therefore, it is not someone else's fault for all these 
programs. Consequently, we had a major turnover in the 1994 election. 
Republicans took over the House and the Senate. So I just warn my 
liberal friends from the other side of the aisle, be real careful. 
Watch what you are doing because it could very well happen again.













 EPA'S Endangerment Finding


Mr. President, I do have something that is a little heavier lifting 
subject. I am the ranking member of the Environment and Public Works 
Committee. When the Republicans were in the majority, I was chairman of 
it.

Something is happening right now, and something happened Tuesday 
morning. I want to make sure everybody understands, as this week is 
coming to an end, that on April 17, the administration set in motion a 
ticking timebomb with its release of a proposed endangerment finding 
for carbon dioxide and five other greenhouse gases. This proposal 
finds--this, incidentally, is what all the scientists do not agree 
with--this proposal finds that carbon dioxide is a dangerous pollutant 
that threatens the public health and welfare and therefore must be 
regulated under the Clean Air Act.

This is interesting because they first tried to pass cap and trade. 
They know there are not the votes for it. There are in the House. 
Speaker Pelosi pretty much gets anything she wants through. It is a 
simple majority vote over there. Over here, it would take 60 votes to 
pass that massive tax increase, and we are not going to do it because 
they do not have more than 34, maybe 35 votes, and it takes 60 votes. 
But, nonetheless, since they cannot do it, they decided to do it under 
the Clean Air Act and do it through regulation so it could be done from 
the White House. This so-called endangerment finding sets the clock 
ticking on a vast array of regulations and taxes, with little or no 
political debate or congressional control.

On May 12, we learned of a White House document. This is significant. 
We did not know it was there. I want to credit our committee, the 
Environment and Public Works Committee--the minority side--for finding 
this document. It is a White House document marked ''privileged and 
confidential.'' It was buried deep within the docket of the proposed 
rule. It outlines some of the very same concerns shared by me and many 
of my colleagues, including Senator Barrasso. I could not be here for 
that Tuesday morning meeting, and he was good enough to take this memo 
and expose it and did an excellent job of it.

Keep in mind, we are talking about their proposal for new taxes, new 
regulations--all these things they want to go through with because they 
cannot legislatively pass a cap-and-trade--or cap-and-tax, as some call 
it--proposal.

The document we found--allegedly a compilation of concerns from 
unnamed officials within the White House, or the administration, as 
part of an interagency review of the proposed regulation--raises some 
questions, very serious criticisms of the endangerment proposal. Chief 
among them are questions raised about the link between the EPA's 
scientific argument for endangerment and its political summary.

I am going to quote from it. I have three quotes. Keep in mind, this 
came from the administration. This report says:




 The finding rests heavily on the precautionary principle, 


 but the amount of acknowledged lack of understanding about 


 basic facts surrounding greenhouse gases seems to stretch the 


 precautionary principle to providing for regulation in the 


 face of unprecedented uncertainty.


In other words, what they are saying there is that the science is not 
there; we do not know yet; we know there are a lot of problems with 
this, and we should not be rushing into it. This came from the White 
House. I am glad we found it.

Here is a further quote. Additionally, it says:




 There is a concern that EPA is making a finding based on 


 ''harm'' from substances that have no demonstrated direct 


 health effects, such as respiratory or toxic effects, and 


 that available scientific data that purports to conclusively 


 establish the nature and the extent of the adverse public 


 health and welfare effects are almost exclusively from non-


 EPA sources.


Again, this is not me talking, this is a quote from the White House 
in a buried document we fortunately--but surprisingly--did find.

You can ask: What source is the EPA relying on if it is going to go 
through all this? That source is the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change. This is where it all started. It was the United Nations 
that started this whole issue of greenhouse gases, of CO2, 
anthropogenic gases, and methane causing global warming. When you look 
at their ''Fourth Assessment Report'', which, as I have documented 
before many times in speeches on this Senate floor, is a political and 
not a science-based body, it has no accountability here in the United 
States.

You keep hearing people say: What about the NAS, the National Academy 
of Sciences? What about them? They are scientists.

The reports they give are not from the NAS, they are from the 
political review or the summary for policymakers, which is a political 
document, not another document.

In addition, this White House memo also warns of a cascade of 
unintended regulatory consequences if the endangerment finding is 
finalized. It states--and again, I am quoting from this report:




 Making the decision to regulate CO2 under the 


 Clean Air Act--


That is what they want to do, regulate CO2 under the Clean 
Air Act--



 for the first time is likely to have serious economic 


 consequences for regulated entities throughout the U.S. 


 economy, including small business and small communities.


This report talks about the small businesses, the small communities, 
churches, other groups that are going to be adversely affected by this. 
Again, this is a document that came out of the White House.

Now, for one thing, I am glad to know we are not alone with our 
concerns and that several in the Obama administration share views 
similar to ours on the endangerment finding. I am hopeful more will 
come forward.

So what was the administration's official response to the release of 
this memo? Well, it depended on whom you asked. One source in the Obama 
administration chose to again blame it on the Bush administration, 
stating it was written by a holdover appointed by George W. Bush. 
However, earlier in the day, Peter Orszag, who heads the White House 
budget office, where the memo apparently came from, stated that the 
quotations circulating in the press are from a document in which the 
OMB simply ''collated and collected disparate comments from various 
agencies during the interagency review process of the proposed finding. 
These collected comments were not necessarily internally consistent, 
since they came from multiple sources, and they do not necessarily 
represent the views of either OMB or the Administration.'' Well, it is 
fine to say this, but that is where it came from. It came from the 
administration. It is very fortunate we found it.


It begs the question: Does this document reflect one rogue leftover 
Bush appointee, who, based on followup news


reports, actually appears to be a Democrat or does it reflect a more 
systematic summary of comments from various agencies that have serious 
concerns with the proposed finding, as Orszag suggested? I am hoping 
someone from the administration will come forth with a consistent 
response.

In either case, I welcome the comments as an open and honest 
discussion of the potential costs, benefits, and legal justifications 
for such a finding.

Regardless of the Supreme Court decision, the EPA has the discretion 
to carefully weight the science and the causes and effects in its 
determination of endangerment, and, despite recent claims by 
administration officials, it is under no court order to find in the 
affirmative that such greenhouse gases endanger public health or 
welfare or cause or contribute to air pollution.

If we are going to have a debate on this issue, let's have it here in 
Congress, where the American people deserve an open and honest 
discussion about the costs and alleged benefits, about the 
effectiveness of such policies and what it will mean to the consumers 
who ultimately pay the bill. As I said before, it is going to be the 
poorer Americans who pay the larger percentage of their incomes who are 
going to be punished.

By the way, we had the debate here. In the House, they have never had 
the debate because it has never come up as an issue. Here we had the 
debate during the ratification debate on the Kyoto treaty. And we had 
the McCain-Lieberman bill, the Warner-Lieberman bill, the Boxer--there 
is another bill that came up just in the last year. So we have had the 
debate, a full and open debate, and we are going to have to debate this 
issue because there is an effort to try to do through regulation what 
they cannot do through open debate in the process on the floor.

The administration, and this EPA in particular, has claimed they will 
usher in a new era of transparency. In April, Administrator Jackson 
issued a sweeping memo to all EPA employees committing the agency to an 
unprecedented level of transparency. I applaud her for it. She told me 
this in my office. We also found that she made this statement in a 
private memo to Members. So she is being very honest in what her effort 
is. I have a feeling a lot of this stuff is happening, and she is not 
even aware of it.

She says--and this is a quote; this is beautiful:




 The success of our environmental efforts depends on earning 


 and maintaining the trust of the public we serve. The 


 American people will not trust us to protect their health or 


 their environment if they do not trust us to be transparent 


 and inclusive in our decision-making. To earn this trust, we 


 must conduct business with the public openly and fairly.


Again, this is Lisa Jackson, the new Administrator of the EPA. I 
applaud her for saying this.




 This requires not only that EPA remain open and accessible 


 to those representing all points of view, but also that EPA 


 offices responsible for decisions take affirmative steps to 


 solicit the views of those who will be affected by these 


 decisions.


She went on to say at her confirmation hearing--not only did she 
reaffirm this statement, but she said she would be responsive to us on 
the minority side, the same as she would be to the majority, and I 
believe that.

Certainly, the allegations in this White House memo make one question 
whether the EPA is open and accessible to all points of view. For one 
thing, it was marked ''privileged and confidential,'' which tells me 
that perhaps they knew about it, but then they did not want to use it 
and they did not want people to find out about it. Nonetheless, the 
document speaks for itself.

My colleagues may criticize the Bush administration for how it 
handled the endangerment finding, but at least they did not try to bury 
or hide these types of comments when it proposed its advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking last summer. I know a lot of this sounds a little 
confusing. This is a process you go through, an advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking. In fact, the previous administration; that is, the 
Bush administration, went so far as to lay all of these comments out in 
public view so all sides could be represented. If this latest action is 
any indication of how the EPA has begun to operate, then the American 
public should have serious reason to be concerned.

On this CO2 endangerment issue--potentially the largest 
and most sweeping regulatory effort ever to be proposed--transparency 
should be a cornerstone of every agency action. Opinions from all 
sides, pro and con--and certainly from all other agencies--should be 
weighed equally and fairly and, just as important, openly, in full view 
of the American people. The American people deserve to know all sides, 
all costs, and all benefits. This thing is so costly, and with the 
questionable benefits, this is that much more important.

Because of these issues, I am hopeful the Administrator will commit 
to a determination on endangerment that would be based on the record of 
the scientific data and empirical evidence rather than political or 
other nonscientific considerations. It is of the utmost importance that 
regulatory matters of this scope and magnitude be based on the most 
objective, balanced scientific and empirical data.

While I am still hopeful that ultimately Congress or the agency will 
decide to take this option off the table, a full on-the-record 
examination during any endangerment rulemaking should be a minimum 
requirement of transparency.

But the administration has essentially politicized the issue by 
presenting policymakers with a false choice. The choice is to use an 
outdated, ill-equipped, and economically disastrous option under the 
Clean Air Act or pick another bad option--cap and trade--that commits 
us to requirements for unaffordable technology and would certainly be 
the largest consistent annual tax increase in the history of 
America. This isn't going to happen.


I would repeat we are fortunate in that we have had this debate, and 
each time we have the debate, there are more and more people who come 
down and say: Well, I didn't know it was going to cost that much money. 
Back in the original Kyoto days, it appeared that a majority of the 
people, in fact, in the Senate would support that type of an approach.

By the way, I have to say this: The Kyoto treaty was one thing. That 
is a treaty that affects the whole world, a lot of developed nations 
and some undeveloped nations. It was something you signed onto and 
everyone signs onto and everyone agrees to. Since that didn't happen--
and even if you are one of those individuals who believes that 
anthropogenic gases, CO2, and methane are causing global 
warming--if you believe it, which isn't true, but if you did believe 
it--then does it make sense for us to pass something unilaterally in 
the Senate, making us less competitive than the rest of the world? What 
is going to happen to our manufacturing base? What is left of it is 
going to end up in places such as China, India, and Mexico, where they 
don't have these emission requirements. What is going to happen then? 
There will be a net increase in CO2.

Back to the memo, and I will conclude with this. I have to repeat 
what the memo says. This was a memo that was advice to the process from 
the White House.




 The finding rests heavily on the precautionary principle, 


 but the amount of acknowledged lack of understanding about 


 basic facts surrounding greenhouse gases would seem to 


 stretch the precautionary principle to providing for 


 regulation in the face of unprecedented uncertainty.


In other words, it is uncertain.

Further, it states:




 There is a concern that EPA is making a finding based on 


 harm from substances that have no demonstrated direct health 


 effects such as respiratory or toxic effects, and that 


 available scientific data that purports to conclusively 


 establish the nature and extent of the adverse public health 


 and welfare effects are almost exclusively from non-EPA 


 sources.


That is an admission.

Finally:




 Making the decision--


Which I hope we will not make the decision to do, but we will oppose 
that decision--



 to regulate CO2 under the Clean Air Act for the 


 first time is likely to have serious economic consequences 


 for regulated entities throughout the United States economy, 


 including small businesses and small communities.


In other words, nobody wins. Nobody wins.

So with that, I would say there is this effort that what they cannot 
do


legislatively they want to do through regulations, and we are not going 
to allow that to happen.

With that, I yield the floor.