---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6599, MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND  VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `9c08c1cc12706eded840661178c63283`
`Ms. CASTOR — 31 July 2008`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1384 provides an open rule 
with a preprinting requirement. The rule provides 1 hour of general 
debate, equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill 
except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI.

The rule waives points of order against provisions of the bill for 
failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI.

The rule provides that any amendment to the bill must be printed in 
the Congressional Record by July 30. Each amendment so printed may be 
offered only by the Member who caused it to be printed or his designee 
and shall be considered as read.

The rule provides one motion to recommit, with or without 
instructions.

Finally, the rule provides that the Chair may postpone further 
consideration of the bill to a time designated by the Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise today to stand with my colleagues 
in support of H.R. 6599, the 2009 Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs Appropriations Act and this rule.

Mr. Speaker, the New Direction Congress has made the lives of 
America's veterans one of our top priorities. Years from now, history 
will reflect that it was this Democratically led 110th Congress, in the 
middle of two wars, that renewed the country's commitment to veterans 
and their health.

Our commitment simply is a reflection of the pride and appreciation 
the American people have for the service of their brave men and women 
in uniform, who have served so greatly in recent conflicts and wars.



Now, just weeks ago, after months of perseverance in the face of 
opposition from the White House, this Congress, in a bipartisan way, 
adopted the new 21st century GI Bill that provides a full 4-year 
college tuition to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. The new 
GI Bill for our veterans was adopted by a vote here in the House of 
256-156.

Last year, we adopted the largest reform and investment in veterans' 
health care in the history of the Veterans Administration. And just 
yesterday, Mr. Speaker, the Congress adopted additional reforms to the 
Veterans Administration process that will improve the lives of veterans 
across this country.

Congressman Cazayoux from Louisiana brought H.R. 6445, that prohibits 
the collection by the Department of Veterans Affairs of copayments or 
other fees for hospital or nursing home care when they are 
catastrophically disabled.

Congressman Paul Hodes of New Hampshire also brought H.R. 2192, that 
establishes in the Department of Veterans Affairs an Office of the 
Ombudsman to act as a liaison to veterans and their families with 
respect to VA health care and their benefits.

I also salute my colleague, Congressman John Hall of New York. We 
adopted his bill yesterday, H.R. 5892, the Veterans Disability Benefits 
Claims Modernization Act, that directs the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to modernize the disability benefits claims processing system 
to ensure that our veterans are served in a timely and accurate way.

Now, in this appropriations bill that is before the House today, the 
American people, through the actions of this Congress, will provide the 
necessary resources for veterans and facilities and the infrastructure 
for the Armed Forces. This includes training facilities, housing, and 
equipment for our troops in their ongoing fight to defend our great 
Nation here and overseas.

While our brave servicemembers are overseas, most military families 
remain at home on bases, and we are committed to an excellent standard 
of living for them and quality of life. That includes convenient child 
care, and a safe and affordable place to live. I know this because I 
have conversations with the men and women who serve on the MacDill Air 
Force Base in my hometown of Tampa, Florida. They tell me that they 
feel much more safe and secure knowing that their families are well 
taken care of and well served back home on the base.

So Members should be proud that we have gone above and beyond the 
White House's initial budget offering. We provide nearly $4 billion 
more than the President in additional resources, particularly for our 
veterans health care programs.

Just last week, a panel testified before the Congress that returning 
soldiers still are not receiving the health care they deserve at Walter 
Reed and across the country, and this is unacceptable. And that is why 
in this appropriations bill we fund the VA health care system to try to 
get it back on track because we've asked everything of these great men 
and women, the ultimate sacrifice, and the least we can do as their 
government is support them when they return and ensure that they have 
the health care they need. When our troops go off to fight valiantly 
for our country, we're going to ensure that they have the best health 
care when they return.

Now, the signature injuries of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are 
the traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. 
Oftentimes, these injuries will require a lifetime of continuing 
medical care. In fact, the Veterans Health Administration estimates 
that just next year, in 2009, they will treat more than 5.8 million 
patients. I'm very fortunate, Mr. Speaker, that in my hometown of 
Tampa, we have an outstanding VA hospital, the James Haley VA Center. 
It is known as the busiest VA hospital in the country. We are also 
fortunate to have one of only four polytrauma units there that serve 
the most critically wounded veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan.

So I've seen directly how oftentimes medical staff is overworked, 
they don't have the facilities that they need. That's why we provide 
above and beyond the President's request and reject his $38 million cut 
for medical and prosthetic research. We will continue to invest in 
medical military construction to improve the aging and outdated medical 
treatment facilities so they have access to the best medical care.

Now, to help the VA get a head start on helping those hundreds of 
thousands of new patients in the VA system, we're going to ask that 
they bring on additional VA claims processors because there is a 
terrible backlog in this country, and that's the last thing that our 
veterans should have to face after their service. Currently, in my 
State, there are over 25,000 pending cases, and nearly 19 percent of 
those have been in a holding pattern for over 180 days. We can and we 
must do better for our veterans.

We also oppose, through this appropriations bill, the Bush 
administration's squeeze on veterans' wallets. The Bush administration 
has proposed increases in enrollment fees and doubling of prescription 
drug copayments. How sensible is it to add to the already large number 
of uninsured in America by making it harder for those who have 
sacrificed in service to this Nation to get the care they need? Well, 
this New Direction Congress can and will do better for our veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I want to particularly applaud the leadership of 
Chairman Chet Edwards, who held numerous hearings in an open, 
bipartisan process that gave Members and the many military families and 
veterans groups an opportunity to review and weigh in, in a thoughtful 
and responsible way, to ensure that our current and past military 
troops and their families get the much-needed funding for various 
programs that they have earned by way of their service.

Mr. Speaker, I know the American people will appreciate that this is 
a bipartisan effort for our country's sons and daughters, who put their 
lives on the line for us every day. We will fulfill our promise to help 
them lead whole and healthy lives in honor of their sacrifice.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.