# MAJORITY MAKERS
## `9c0dc681f3740129403c67835d33484f`
`Ms. SHEA-PORTER â€” 19 September 2007`

---


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Thank you, Congresswoman.

I am holding in my hands a report to Congress from September 6, 2007 
called ''The Independent Commission Security Forces of Iraq.'' This is 
retired General Jones. They did an absolutely wonderful job, 
nonpartisan, and I'm very pleased to say that it seems incredibly 
accurate and fair in all respects.

Here is a concern, or one of the many concerns that I have, and I 
just want to read a couple of lines and talk about it. It says, Iraq's 
central government in Baghdad, and this is page 39, does not have 
national reach in terms of security, nor does it have a monopoly on use 
of force, a defining characteristic of a functioning nation state. 
Militias continue to play a prominent role and are seen by American and 
Iraqi officials alike as posing almost as significant a threat to Iraqi 
stability and security as al Qaeda in Iraq.

Now, isn't that fascinating? We hear them talk about al Qaeda, al 
Qaeda, al Qaeda in Iraq. Al Qaeda was not in Iraq on 9/11, 2001, and 
yet we have militias roaming around and there is very little talk about 
that.

Now, as this report states, if you have militias, it means that the 
Iraqi Central Government is not in control of their streets. This is 
where we have our soldiers, in the middle of a civil war. And this is 
the reason that we've had ethnic cleansing and the other problems that 
we're having.

I want to talk about the Iraqi political establishment for a moment. 
Our troops have done everything they've been asked to do. They are 
guarding the streets. And yes, violence has gone down where our troops 
are, and it's a great credit to our troops, but I can tell you right 
now that if you put 50 policemen and women on a corner of any major 
city in America, or anywhere, crime would go down because these forces 
do a terrific job, but it doesn't mean that you've changed the hearts 
and minds of the people, the criminals. What we have here is an Iraqi 
Government that has not stepped forward. And so we are relying on our 
troops to not only control the violence in Baghdad, but also to run 
everything.

The Iraqi Government, the Parliament, wanted to take 2 months off 
this summer in the middle of this crisis. When the White House, Tony 
Snow, was asked about the 2-month vacation, he said, well, it's 140 
degrees there. And somebody said, well, aren't our troops in 140 
degrees as well?

The Iraqi Parliament also, more than half of them, signed a petition 
asking the United States to leave Iraq. Now, this is not leadership. 
Our troops have waited for years for Iraqi leadership to step forward 
and run their country.



We cannot ask our troops to not only be the police there, be the cop 
on the beat there, but also to be the politicians there. If the Iraqi 
Government will not, cannot, step up, we have to finally say we have to 
step down. It has been just too long.

So picture that, what it is like, and you will understand why 100,000 
Iraqis have been leaving every month and why there is more than 2 
million people who are now out of the Iraqi borders. They have lost 
their middle class. They have lost anybody who could help the society. 
They have fled. And you understand why, when you think about militias 
and you think about the lack of Iraqi political leadership. You didn't 
hear very much about that coming out of the White House. Ask them to 
name the Iraqi politicians, the leaders, who are going to take over, 
and ask when. Because they can't say when. They can't name who is going 
to take over. We cannot leave our troops there indefinitely until the 
Iraqis decide to find political reconciliation.

That is the problem. As long as we have our troops there, yes, we can 
tamp down the violence where our troops are. But we must have a 
government. That report shows that they have militia wandering around 
and that the Iraqi Government has not stepped up to the task. We are in 
our fifth year, Americans know that, our fifth year of our treasure and 
our blood of our people. It is time to stop.