# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9c0fa1740f80925a81fa2fdae7e949c8`
`Mr. McHENRY â€” 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. McHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I move to strike the last word.

I appreciate the opportunity to speak before the House, and I 
appreciate the fact that we are taking this amendment up under an open 
rule which allows for a wide-ranging debate on the important issues of 
the day.

Now, this amendment is very simple. It saves the taxpayers money. It 
saves the taxpayers money, Mr. Chairman, and I think that is what is 
very important for us to understand here on this House floor. If we do 
not spend this money in the appropriations bill, it will reduce our 
deficit.

As the chairman of the full committee said in his speech here on the 
floor a few minutes ago, he believes Republicans are simply 
filibustering.


Well, he is in the wrong Chamber for filibustering; it is across the 
hall in the Senate.

What we are doing here today is bringing out the fact that we as 
Republicans, our side of the aisle, we actually want to reduce spending 
and balance the budget. We have had some tough times since 2001, since 
this war began, when we were attacked in 2001. But, Mr. Chairman, what 
we have to do is understand as a nation, we have to cut this deficit 
and balance this budget and start paying down the national debt. We 
have to make sure that we have a balanced budget.

How do we begin that process for a balanced budget? It is not by 
raising taxes, which the other side of the aisle already proposed and 
actually adopted through their new budget that they put in place this 
new Congress. They made it clear that they want to roll back to the 
prior level of taxation, the very high level of taxation that we as 
Americans faced.

But what we believe in as conservatives, and on this side of the 
aisle especially, is that the way we balance the budget is not by 
raising taxes on the American people. We have plenty of income coming 
into the government, but we have a spending problem here. So with this 
amendment we are taking a small step, a very small step, but a step 
nonetheless, that will help us reduce spending.

The chairman of the full committee said they have been very busy 
spending for the Iraq war, the supplemental vote. Well, as we well 
know, within that Iraq war funding bill they have plenty of pork barrel 
spending, plenty of earmarks. Well, we believe over $20 billion in 
earmarks was in that final version of the bill. They were too busy 
spending on special interest projects to actually put in the details of 
this legislation so the American people can see what kind of pork 
barrel projects they have tucked into the legislation before us.

So first of all, the process is wrong.

Second, the spending is too high. The American people understand 
that, and they want us to do something about it. As conservatives, we 
need to take that first step. That first step is offered by my 
colleague from Iowa, Mr. King, who has offered a very reasonable, very 
simple, very straightforward amendment that is good for the taxpayer 
and is good for Americans.

We all care about homeland security, Mr. Chairman. We believe it is 
in the interest of our government to fund homeland security and 
national defense effectively, but not blindly. Not simply because a 
number is put forward, do we have to accept it. And that is what the 
debate is about here today, about whether or not we are simply going to 
accept a high level of spending and look the other way while the 
deficit increases, while the American people are asked to spend more on 
government through their taxes.

But we have to take that first step. A small step, but a very good, 
very important step, nonetheless. I will be proud to vote for the King 
amendment when we get that chance here in a few minutes.

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to come forward with a consensus 
that these important spending matters deserve an open, honest, fair 
debate. It is not simply about getting it done quickly. We know that 
legislation takes awhile to craft. We should have an open debate and 
allow a real exchange of ideas about how to best spend our homeland 
security dollars.

Mr. Chairman, the American people understand that their government 
costs too much. So let's support my colleague, the gentleman from Iowa 
(Mr. King), his amendment here today, that allows us to take a step in 
the right direction.