# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9c11b40842dd63d263f297fd1a3f315e`
`Mr. CANTOR — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. CANTOR. Madam Speaker, just 2 days ago, on February 14, Osama bin 
Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, posted a speech on an Islamist Web 
site where he blessed jihad fighters in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Somalia 
and urged the mujahadeen all over world to remain steadfast since 
complete victory was near. He made special mention of those in the 
Islamic jihadist media and thanked them for their blessed efforts which 
cause the Crusaders to lose sleep.

There is no doubt about it, Madam Speaker. We are fighting against an 
enemy that uses every weapon at its disposal to inflict casualties upon 
our soldiers in the field. This enemy seeks not just victory in Iraq 
but the reestablishment of a greater Islamic caliphate that would 
threaten the security of America and freedom-loving people throughout 
the world.

Today, this House will vote on a nonbinding resolution that 
disapproves of a surge in Iraq, a resolution that discourages our 
troops yet fails to satisfy the antiwar movement of America's left.

The resolution will likely pass today with near unanimous support of 
my friends on the other side of the aisle. Yet, Madam Speaker, I am 
troubled by their seeming unwillingness to accept the real consequences 
of this outcome. This from the party of John F. Kennedy, who so 
inspired our Nation when he said in his inaugural address: ''Let every 
Nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay any 
price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose 
any foe in order to ensure the survival and the success of liberty.''

Madam Speaker, we have come a long way since our Nation's 35th 
President spoke those words 46 years ago.

This debate arrives at an historic time in our Nation's history, not 
because of the resolution we are considering today but because the 
results of our efforts in Iraq will have a true impact on the lives of 
our soldiers and the security of all of us for generations to come.

Recently, I received a letter from one of my constituents who 
expressed some very real concerns about the Democrats' view of the war 
in Iraq. He writes: ''I am a servicemember that has served in Iraq, 
training Iraqis. I have 19 years of service. I spent 6 years in the 
Virginia Army National Guard, and I am entering my 13th year of active 
Federal service.

''Pulling out of Iraq doesn't send the right message to those we are 
fighting,'' he said. ''Not enough is being said about what the U.S. 
will do if we withdraw and what will happen in the midst of a power 
vacuum . . . ''

The soldier went on to say: ''I personally served in the streets of 
Baghdad in 2006, and I would have felt better serving, thinking that 
both houses of Congress gave me their full support.''

Madam Speaker, what we debate in this House, how we conduct 
ourselves, does have real consequences. Some of our country's bravest 
are on the battlefield and on the streets of Baghdad as we speak.

We have seen throughout our history what happens when our resolve is 
weak. In 1993 this country half-heartedly supported the commitment of 
troops to subdue the violent warlords of Somalia. The precipitous 
withdrawal in the face of casualties left a chaotic nation to this day 
that harbors terrorists and is a feeding ground for instability.

The lessons of history must not be forgotten as we face a determined 
enemy of Islamic terrorists who are waging a war upon freedom.

Madam Speaker, the American people want us to fight and win in Iraq 
and bring our troops home. Our soldiers seek nothing more than the 
support they require to perform their mission and the knowledge that 
the American people believe that their sacrifice is necessary and 
noble.

Contrary to some of those on the other side of the aisle who have 
stood here in this well believing and saying


that this debate is a breath of fresh air, our enemies will be the only 
ones satisfied by this debate. They will have received all the 
political rhetoric they require to convince their followers that 
complete victory is at hand. One can only imagine with horror how many 
Islamic radicals will be inspired to continue the fight after this 
House resolves that it supports our troops but not the mission we ask 
them to perform.

To those who support this resolution and oppose any effort to achieve 
victory in Iraq, I challenge you to be true to your convictions and 
bring a binding resolution to the floor to cut off funds for our 
troops, because that is really what this is all about.

Madam Speaker, I oppose this resolution and urge my colleagues to 
vote ''no'' and send a message worth hearing to America, our soldiers, 
and our enemies.