---
---

# ZACHARY SMITH POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `9c26f3c32be4c829e50b6a07ece22e42`
`Mr. CROWLEY — 11 May 2010`

---


Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5051, a 
measure to designate the post office at 23 Genesee Street in Hornell, 
New York. The new name of the post office will be the ''Zachary Smith 
Post Office Building''. I would like to thank my colleagues from New 
York--who en masse sponsored this initiative.

Zachary Smith was a selfless and brave young man who gave his life 
for his country at the age of 19. He made the ultimate sacrifice on 
behalf of the American people while serving in Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan, and the U.S. House of Representatives honors 
both Zachary and his family through this resolution. For those who knew 
Zachary, January 24, 2010 will be forever remembered as a day of 
sadness, but also a day of pride--pride in a courageous young man who 
exhibited the Marine Corps motto: Semper Fidelis.

Zachary was not only a soldier--he was an athlete, a brother, a son 
and a husband. By all accounts, he was an admired member of the Hornell 
community, setting a strong example for members of his school and his 
family. He was responsible at home and kind to others where he attended 
Hornell High School, graduating in 2008. He loved football, golf and 
spending time with his family.

Zachary's life, and the profound, genuine loss felt by those who 
loved him, cannot be repaired by designating this post office. However, 
by supporting this resolution, we can help ensure that future 
generations will learn of Zachary's integrity and courage. Zachary made 
his home a better place. Zachary made Hornell a better place. Zachary 
made America a better place. He can never be replaced, but we can do 
our part to honor his memory and the ideals he stood for by passing 
this resolution today and honoring Zachary Smith, a real hometown hero.