---
---

# IMPROVING AMERICA'S SECURITY
## `9c2c5b8280f9411810ee19f5fe79f756`
`Mr. CORNYN — 8 March 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. This last provision provides the right of the American 
Government to protect families of soldiers from terrorist hoaxes. For 
example, this provision would increase the penalties for perpetrating a 
hoax about the death, injury, or capture of a U.S. soldier during 
wartime.

I think we would all agree that a hoax about the death of a U.S. 
soldier is a serious offense that should be made a crime and can result 
in devastating consequences to the family that is the subject of a 
hoax. In one such incident involving a soldier from Flagstaff, AZ, who 
was serving in Iraq, the Army sent the soldier a satellite phone so he 
could call home from Iraq to reassure them that he was, in fact, alive 
and uninjured. Unfortunately, another soldier was killed in the process 
of trying to deliver the satellite phone to the soldier so he could 
reassure his own family, and the message did not get through on a 
timely basis.

I think we would all agree this is simply unacceptable. Our military 
personnel put their lives on the line every day for our freedom and our 
families who support them. One of the most important things we can do 
is make sure they are protected against those who would perpetrate 
these kinds of cruel hoaxes on them and take advantage of their 
concerns and natural anxiety for the welfare of their loved ones 
serving us abroad.

So I hope our colleagues will vote for cloture on this important 
package of amendments, and we will have that opportunity tomorrow, if 
not sooner.

Mr. President, I know I have other colleagues, my two colleagues from 
Georgia, who are here to speak in our portion of morning business, and 
I will yield the floor at this time to them.