# MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
## `9c47d2c312b535460e1cd45295d3d503`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 January 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., a great man who inspired ordinary African Americans to 
demand equal rights as American citizens. This year, we celebrate what 
would have been Dr. King's 78th birthday and his dream for equality and 
justice for all that remains our Nation's moral compass.

In honoring Dr. King on this particular anniversary of his birth, we 
remember that it has been a year since we lost his wife and 
indispensable partner, Coretta Scott King, who died on January 30, 
2006. Mrs. King was a woman of quiet courage and great dignity who 
marched alongside her husband and became an international advocate for 
peace and human rights. She had been actively engaged in the civil 
rights movement as a politically and socially conscious young woman and 
continued after her husband's death to lead the country toward greater 
justice and equality for all, traveling the world on behalf of racial 
and economic justice, peace and nonviolence, women's and children's 
rights, gay rights, religious freedom, full employment, health care, 
and education.

Much has improved since 1966, when Martin Luther King, Jr., and Ralph 
Abernathy organized marches and protests in Chicago. Today, 80 percent 
of African Americans older than 25 have earned their high school 
diploma, and there are 2.3 million African American college students, 
an increase of 1 million from 15 years ago. In addition, there are 1.2 
million African-American businesses across the country that generate 
$88.6 billion in revenues.

This important day calls us to recognize the challenges that remain 
and the work that still must be done to move closer to Dr. King's 
dream. If he were alive today, Dr. King would undoubtedly be dismayed 
by injustices large and small, including the violence in Iraq, the 
deepening divide between those who have and those who do not, and the 
prohibitive cost of higher education, which is now out of reach for 
many African-American and Hispanic families. In the wealthiest Nation 
on Earth, 37 million people live in poverty, 47 million people do not 
have health insurance, and millions more are underinsured.

Our Nation is a better one thanks to Dr. King and the sacrifices he 
and others made during the 1950s and 1960s. I remembered that as I 
walked in some of those same footsteps when I joined U.S. 
Representative John Lewis' pilgrimage to Selma and Montgomery, Alabama. 
Although there is much of Dr. King's dream that remains to be 
fulfilled, I have faith that we will continue to move toward the 
equality and justice that he sought. As a nation, we must and we shall.