---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
## `9c4dd9d724c20803156b51c69c04eff9`
`Mr. WEXLER — 25 May 2007`

---


Mr. WEXLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the people and 
Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan--as they prepare to celebrate 
Republic Day on May 28.

Republic Day commemorates the day Azerbaijan first declared 
independence from the Russian Empire in 1918. Though the Azerbaijan 
Republic later succumbed to Soviet forces in 1920, in its 2 years of 
independence Azerbaijan achieved a number of measures on state-
building, armed forces, education, economy, and universal suffrage, 
from which it benefits today.

Azerbaijan's second opportunity for freedom and independence began in 
1990 as Azeris began gathering in protest against Soviet rule. 
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan declared anew 
their independence.

On August 30, 1991, Azerbaijan's Parliament adopted the Declaration 
on the Restoration of the State of Independence of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan, and on October 18, 1991, their Constitution was approved.

Azerbaijan is a key global security partner for the United States. 
Azerbaijan was among the first nations to offer our United States 
unconditional support in the war against terrorism, providing use of 
its airspace, airports, and troops for Operation Enduring Freedom in 
Afghanistan. Azerbaijan was also the first Muslim nation to send troops 
to Iraq.

Azerbaijan works with the United States regionally through the GUAM 
Organization for Democracy and Economic Development (Georgia, Ukraine, 
Azerbaijan and Moldova), to prevent illegal trafficking and to secure 
borders.

Azerbaijan contributes significantly to the diversification of the 
western energy supply. The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, an initiative 
supported by the Clinton and Bush administrations, reached a milestone 
when its first oil reached the Mediterranean Sea on May 28, 2006. The 
following March, the United States signed a Memorandum of 
Understanding--designed to increase the level of cooperation between 
our two nations--with Azerbaijan to engage in high level dialogue on 
energy security in the Caspian region.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of my colleagues, I congratulate the 
Republic of Azerbaijan on the celebration of Republic Day, and I look 
forward to further collaboration between our two nations.
