---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2082, INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR  FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9c5d8169e9bce83699c178f9c79d52cb`
`Mr. HOYER — 13 December 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

This is an important bill with an important objective, and the 
objective is to protect our country and to protect our Constitution.

Ironically, the ranking member has just said that by having 
oversight, by having checks and balance on the intelligence community, 
somehow we politicize it. Our Founding Fathers, in the best sense of 
politicalization, wanted the civil sector to be involved. That's the 
purposes of this committee, I suggest to my friend.

The fact of the matter is the intelligence community conducts 
critically important activities that we want them to conduct. But we 
give them extraordinary powers, and because of that, we need to make 
sure that they're not politicized. In fact, the irony is that I think 
most objective observers would say two things: first of all, that the 
defense establishment of our country has been probably the most 
politicized it's been in my 26 years in the Congress of the United 
States. That is not true, in my opinion, with the present Secretary, by 
the way, or with the present Deputy Secretary.

Secondly, they have abandoned oversight. I have said many times that 
the previous Congress and the Congress before that and the Congress 
before that exercised less oversight than any previous Congress in 
which I've served. In fact, there was much more oversight by the 
Democratic Congress of the Clinton administration, in terms of 
oversight hearings, numbers, depth, than there was in the entire 
framework of the last 6 years under Republicans in the House, the 
Senate, and in the White House. This is a serious piece of legislation; 
it requires serious consideration.

Mr. Speaker, first, I want to thank the chairman of the Intelligence 
Committee, my good friend, Congressman Reyes of Texas, and Mr. Hoekstra 
as well, who I think brings experience and judgment to this issue, 
although we have significant disagreements.

This, as the chairman has said, is the first authorization bill in 3 
years to come to this floor. This authorization bill ought to come to 
the floor every year. Let me say briefly that this conference report 
enhances oversight. The reason, in my opinion, authorization bills 
didn't come to the floor in the last Congress is because oversight was 
not, as I said, as important. I've been disappointed with the oversight 
that's been exercised not only by this committee, but by others.

This conference report comes to the floor to enhance oversight and 
effective management of the intelligence community and expects and 
requires accountability. It enhances the management authority and 
flexibility of the Director of National Intelligence. Why? Because we 
want to have a more effective intelligence organization. And it 
authorizes new funding to improve the effectiveness of intelligence 
programs and activities. I would think all of us support those two 
efforts.



This legislation also includes an important provision, added in 
conference, that I want to talk about. It requires all American 
intelligence agencies and those under contract or subcontract with 
intelligence agencies to comply with the U.S. Army Field Manual on 
interrogations. Some find fault with that. I want to speak to that.

Mr. Speaker, every Member here believes that our Nation must take 
decisive action to detect, disrupt and, yes, eliminate terrorists who 
have no compunction about planning and participating in the mass 
killings of innocent men and women and children in an effort to advance 
their twisted aims. No one on this floor should gainsay that that is 
not the objective of every Member of this body.

We can and we will act to prevail in the war on terror. However, in 
the pursuit of those who seek to harm us, we must not sacrifice the 
very ideals that distinguish us from those who preach death and 
destruction. Yet, under the current administration, we have seen that 
line blurred between legitimate, sanctioned interrogation tactics and 
torture. And there is no doubt our international reputation has 
suffered and been stained as a result. Who said that? That's not a 
quote, but who said that essentially? Secretary Colin Powell, former 
four-star Army general, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and 
Secretary of State in this administration.

The excesses at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo are well known, as are the 
administration's belief that the Geneva Convention against torture is 
''quaint,'' and the Vice President's persistent effort to undermine the 
ban on torture championed by whom? Senator John McCain of Arizona, 
Republican candidate for President.

Just last week we learned that the Central Intelligence Agency 
destroyed, perhaps illegally, videotapes or interrogations conducted by 
American agents. These incidents unfortunately sully our great Nation's 
well-deserved good reputation. They raise questions about our 
commitment to human rights and the rule of law. And they allow our 
enemies to foment fear and stoke hatred.

This provision requires all intelligence agencies to comply with the 
Army Field Manual on interrogations. It is an attempt by this Congress 
to repair the damage that has already been done.

Furthermore, the techniques permitted by the Army Field Manual have 
been endorsed by a wide array of civilian and military officials as 
both effective and consistent with our international commitments, and 
very importantly, with the safety of our members of the Armed Forces.

At this time I will include a letter in the Record. The letter is 
signed by, and I will not take the time to read all of the generals, 
but there are four four-star generals. A four-star general is as high 
as you can go in the Armed Forces of the United States, except when 
we're in a world war, in which we accord a fifth-star.

























December 12, 2007.


 Hon. John D. Rockefeller IV,


 Chairman, Select Committee on Intelligence, Washington, DC.


 Hon. Silvestre Reyes,


 Chairman, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 




 Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Reyes and Chairman Rockefeller: As retired 


 military leaders of the U.S. Armed Forces, we write to 


 express our strong support for Section 327 of the Conference 


 Report on the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 


 2008, H.R. 2082. Section 327 would require intelligence 


 agents of the U.S. government to adhere to the standards of 


 prisoner treatment and interrogation contained in the U.S. 


 Army Field Manual on Human Collector Operations (the Army 


 Field Manual).



 We believe it is vital to the safety of our men and women 


 in uniform that the United States not sanction the use of 


 interrogation methods it would find unacceptable if inflicted 


 by the enemy against captured Americans. That principle, 


 embedded in the Army Field Manual, has guided generations of 


 American military personnel in combat. The current situation, 


 in which the military operates under one set of interrogation 


 rules that are public and the CIA operates under a separate, 


 secret set of rules, is unwise and impractical. In order to 


 ensure adherence across the government to the requirements of 


 the Geneva Conventions and to maintain the integrity of the 


 humane treatment standards on which our own troops rely, we 


 believe that all U.S. personnel--military and civilian--


 should be held to a single standard of humane treatment 


 reflected in the Army Field Manual.



 The Field Manual is the product of decades of practical 


 experience and was updated last year to reflect lessons 


 learned from the current conflict. Interrogation methods 


 authorized by the Field Manual have proven effective in 


 eliciting vital intelligence from dangerous enemy prisoners. 


 Some have argued that the Field Manual rules are too 


 simplistic for civilian interrogators. We reject that 


 argument. Interrogation methods authorized in the Field 


 Manual are sophisticated and flexible. And the principles 


 reflected in the Field Manual are values that no U.S. agency 


 should violate.



 General David Petraeus underscored this point in an open 


 letter to the troops in May in which he cautioned against the 


 use of interrogation techniques not authorized by the Field 


 Manual:



 What sets us apart from our enemies in this fight . . . is 


 how we behave. In everything we do, we must observe the 


 standards and values that dictate that we treat noncombatants 


 and detainees with dignity and respect. . . . Some may argue 


 that we would be more effective if we sanctioned torture or 


 other expedient methods to obtain information from the enemy. 


 They would be wrong. Beyond the basic fact that such actions 


 are illegal, history shows that they also are frequently 


 neither useful nor necessary. Certainly, extreme physical 


 action can make someone ''talk;'' however, what the 


 individual says may be of questionable value. In fact, our 


 experience in applying the interrogation standards laid out 


 in the Army Field Manual (2-22.3) on Human Intelligence 


 Collector Operations that was published last year shows that 


 the techniques in the manual work effectively and humanely in 


 eliciting information from detainees.



 Employing interrogation methods that violate the Field 


 Manual is not only unnecessary, but poses enormous risks. 


 These methods generate information of dubious value, reliance 


 upon which can lead to disastrous consequences. Moreover, 


 revelation of the use of such techniques does immense damage 


 to the reputation and moral authority of the United States 


 essential to our efforts to combat terrorism.



 This is a defining issue for America. We urge you to 


 support the adoption of Section 327 of the Conference Report 


 and thereby send a clear message--to U.S. personnel and to 


 the world--that the United States will not engage in or 


 condone the abuse of prisoners and will honor its commitments 


 to uphold the Geneva Conventions.





 Sincerely,



 General Joseph Hoar, USMC (Ret.).



 General Paul J. Kern, USA (Ret.).



 General Charles Krulak, USMC (Ret.).



 General David M. Maddox, USA (Ret.).



 General Merrill A. McPeak, USAF (Ret.).



 Admiral Stansfield Turner, USN (Ret.).



 Vice Admiral Lee F. Gunn, USN (Ret.).



 Lieutenant General Claudia J. Kennedy, USA (Ret.).



 Lieutenant General Donald L. Kerrick, USA (Ret.).



 Vice Admiral Albert H. Konetzni Jr., USN (Ret.).



 Lieutenant General Charles Otstott, USA (Ret.).



 Lieutenant General Harry E. Soyster, USA (Ret.).



 Major General Paul Eaton, USA (Ret.).



 Major General Eugene Fox, USA (Ret.).



 Major General John L. Fugh, USA (Ret.).



 Rear Admiral Don Guter, USN (Ret.).



 Major General Fred E. Haynes, USMC (Ret.).



 Rear Admiral John D. Hutson, USN (Ret.).



 Major General Melvyn Montano, ANG (Ret.).



 Major General Gerald T. Sajer, USA (Ret.).



 Major General Antonio ''Tony'' M. Taguba, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General David M. Brahms, USMC (Ret.).



 Brigadier General James P. Cullen, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General Evelyn P. Foote, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General David R. Irvine, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General John H. Johns, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General Richard O'Meara, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General Murray G. Sagsveen, USA (Ret.).



 Brigadier General Anthony Verrengia, USAF (Ret.).



 Brigadier General Stephen N. Xenakis, USA (Ret.).


There are many lieutenant generals, admirals, vice admirals, 
brigadier generals, major generals, all of whom are concerned about 
defeating terrorism. And this is what they say:

''As retired military leaders of the U.S. Armed Forces, we write to 
express,'' on December 12, 2007, just a few days ago, ''we write to 
express our strong support for section 327 of the conference report on 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.''

And then this paragraph, and I ask all my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to listen to this paragraph from those who have worn the 
uniform of the United States of America, who have themselves, before 
they became generals, fought in the battles that America has sent them 
to, and fought for the freedom of this country, and


confronted the terrorists of their day and today. Hear this paragraph 
from those who have been at war and who want to protect their troops, 
our troops, American men and women.



They say this: ''We believe it is vital to the safety of our men and 
women in uniform for the United States not to sanction the use of 
interrogation methods it would find unacceptable if inflicted by the 
enemy against captured Americans.'' That is the critical point.

We are a nation that believes in the premise of doing unto others 
what we would have them do to us. Our own enemies do not accept that 
premise. Our enemies do not accept that value. Our enemies are 
different than we are. We must not become what we confront. The 
techniques permitted by the Army Field Manual, as I say, are endorsed 
by all of these generals. General Krulak in particular wrote a very 
compelling op-ed piece on this issue in the Washington Post. General 
Krulak is probably known as one of the toughest commandants the Marine 
Corps has ever had. I served with him on the Board of Visitors to the 
United States Naval Academy. He is as tough as they come. And he says, 
Protect our people, adopt this sanction.

Here, in fact, is what General David Petraeus wrote to members of the 
Armed Forces in Iraq in May, just a few months ago, General Petraeus, 
four-star general, heading our effort to confront, supposedly, 
terrorism and, I believe, terrorism in Iraq. ''Some may argue that we 
would be more effective if we sanctioned torture or other expedient 
methods to obtain information from the enemy. They would be wrong. 
Beyond the basic fact that such actions are illegal,'' Petraeus's 
words, General Petraeus's word, ''history shows that they also are 
frequently neither useful nor necessary.'' General Petraeus continued, 
''Certainly, extreme physical action can make someone 'talk'; however, 
what the individual says may be of questionable value. Our experience 
in applying interrogation standards laid out in the Army Field Manual 
shows that the techniques in the manual work effectively and humanely 
in eliciting information from detainees.''

This is General Petraeus who wants to keep his troops safe and wants 
to prevent terrorist attacks on his people under his command.

Inexplicably, the administration has issued a veto threat on this 
conference report because it would require all intelligence agencies to 
abide by the Army Field Manual. I believe that the administration's 
position is indefensible. This is not a question of whether we must 
combat and defeat terrorists. Of course, we must. However, we must 
never let it be said that when this generation of Americans was forced 
to confront evil that we succumbed to the tactics of the tyrant, that 
we stooped to the depths of the dictator.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle not for party but for 
country, not for partisanship but for a reverence for the 
constitutional oath we took, I urge us all, let's demonstrate our 
commitment to the values that make us Americans. Let's begin to repair 
and restore this Nation's reputation. Let's adopt this conference 
report.

I thank the chairman for the time. I thank him for his leadership. I 
thank Mr. Hoekstra, as well.