---
---

# A QUARTERLY REPORT CARD
## `9c70e77f497f924f2996c8f47ea8f42f`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 19 April 2007`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Like all of us, I came to this body seeking to make a 
difference for my constituents and all Americans alike. We have chosen 
a life in public service and promised to fight for what we believe in. 
That is what we are doing. We promised to fight to give future 
generations the opportunity we have. We promised to fight to continue 
the prosperity of this great Nation.

Unfortunately, as I reflect back on the first quarter of the 110th 
Congress, I do believe that the Democrat leadership has broken their 
promise to the American people. Supporting our courageous men and women 
in the military and addressing the gulf States homeowners' insurance 
crisis are two of the most important issues my constituents raised to 
me.

Despite many Members' requests to address these vital matters in a 
timely, bipartisan manner, our pleas have fallen on deaf ears. It is 
with great disappointment that I go back to my district with the 
expectations of the American people so far unfulfilled.

Regardless of the individual opinions regarding the war in Iraq, 
every American supports our brave men and women who serve this country 
with great honor and distinction.

Just as we are forever indebted to yesterday's servicemembers who 
wore this country's uniform, we will never be able to fully repay 
today's gallant heroes. I am so very proud to serve on the veterans 
committee.

We task the members of our Armed Forces with extraordinary 
responsibilities. The very least we can do is provide them with the 
necessary tools and resources to accomplish their mission. Nearly a 
month has gone by since the House approved its version of the Iraq 
emergency supplemental appropriations bill, a bill so bad that USA 
Today editorialized against it and said: ''It is hard to say which is 
worse, leaders offering peanuts for a vote of this magnitude, or 
Members allowing their votes to be bought for peanuts.''

It is bad enough that the bill contained pork projects intended to 
secure Members' votes. It is equally as troubling that we have been 
delayed in going to conference with the Senate to work out a bipartisan 
compromise worthy of our men and women in uniform. The American Legion 
and the VFW have urged this Congress to pass a clean supplemental 
funding bill, which will get our troops the resources they need as 
quickly as possible. I am so proud of the American Legion and VFW for 
stepping up. They continue to be our heroes. Every day we fail to act 
is another day we dishonor our troops' sacrifices and valor.

The other vital issue to many Americans, particularly in my district 
and in the State of Florida, the Gulf Coast States, is the skyrocketing 
cost of homeowners' insurance. Many of our States are plagued by 
natural disasters that cost millions, if not billions, of dollars in 
damage. It is a terrible situation.



As a result, homeowners' insurance rates have simply become 
unaffordable in many areas of our country. In my State, in far too many 
instances these rates have tripled forcing many to leave the areas they 
call home. For others in the gulf coast region, this has become the 
most financially crippling problem we have faced in years.

My constituents have entrusted me to bring this issue into the 
national debate and come up with a solution. Yet as we approach the 
beginning of another hurricane season, this body has failed to act.

Earlier this month, it was predicted we would have a very active 
hurricane season. Many of us who represent coastal States have tried to 
bring this issue to the forefront, both Democrats and Republicans, but 
our attempts seem to have been in vain so far. As the result of an 
apathetic Democratic leadership, my constituents have been abandoned by 
the very people they have entrusted to protect them, and what a shame 
that is.

Along with the numerous bills introduced in the House which would 
help alleviate this crisis, I introduced H.R. 913, the Hurricane and 
Tornado Mitigation Investment Act. My bill would provide tax incentives 
for individuals to better protect their property against these deadly 
storms. As a result of strengthening their homes and businesses to 
better withstand these disasters, homeowners' insurance would drop and 
many constituents would continue raising their families in the place 
they call home.

I can't tell you how many times I have talked to my constituents, 
people who have lived in Florida for over 20-25 years and wanted to 
raise their kids in Florida or retire in the State of Florida, and they 
are forced to leave the State. And I know there are other States in 
that position as well. I implore this Congress to consider my and other 
insurance-related bills to help these Americans in their time of need.

When the Democrat leadership took the House gavel and control of 
Congress in January, they accepted it in partnership not partisanship. 
It is my sincere hope that we soon will debate serious topics that 
address the needs of this country in a bipartisan manner rather than 
political posturing.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to continue the prosperity of this great Nation.

May God bless our troops. We owe them so much, and may He continue to 
watch over the United States of America.