# None
## `9c71a25a5f3b84420a4a532e11ce02dd`
`Mrs. BOXER — 2 October 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I note the Senator is waiting to be 
heard. I will be brief, but I do want to respond.

I so appreciate the fact that Senator Inouye spoke to our colleagues 
on the Armed Services Committee. But I do think we need to use our own 
brains and our own common sense. I do think when I look in the eyes of 
parents who are sending their kids into the military, they need to 
know, they need to know that in addition to the dangers of this war, in 
addition to the danger of being thrust into the middle of a civil war, 
they should not have to deal with the danger of a convicted felon who 
has used a gun and put that gun against somebody's head within the past 
5 years.

We all know that the committees are very close to the military. I 
understand that. But is not there a time for us to stand up and show a 
little spunk and spine here and state the obvious, that although we all 
support waivers, because there are certain cases where a waiver may 
make sense, there is such a thing as an abuse of a waiver. If you look 
at the numbers and see we are up to almost 1,000 of these waivers, 
things are getting out of control.

Now, I know that both the Armed Services Committee, the authorizers 
and the Appropriations Committee, which are very powerful committees, 
do not like this amendment. They want me to go away. They have offered 
now twice, the authorizing and appropriations: Will you not take a 
study and go away?

Yes, I want to have a study. But, no, I do not think we should walk 
away from this. This is a commonsense amendment. This takes five of the 
whole list of crimes--and I will repeat what they are: arson, 
aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, sexual crimes, hate crimes, 
and making a terrorist threat.

I think for this year, do not pay bonuses to these people who have 
been convicted of these crimes for the last 5 years and do not take 
them into the military. That would send a signal to the military that 
they need to do their own study. It is stunning to me that we would 
have to have a study about this--the DoD does not even want to study 
this thing. They just want to meet the recruitment goal.

We all want them to meet their recruitment goals, but if it means 
putting someone, a dangerous criminal, next to one of my men and women 
in uniform, no thank you. It is tough enough to survive Iraq. We have 
worked with veterans on this amendment so we have gotten it to the 
point where, yes, we give people a chance to turn over a new leaf.

I am disappointed that Senators Inouye and Stevens do not support 
this amendment, but I am not surprised. I am going to keep talking 
about this issue because this status quo is not good for our troops.

I yield the floor