---
---

# None
## `9c73ae2e1b43e37766070d2a904af8d6`
`Mr. GINGREY — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California.

Mr. Speaker, the next slide that I want my colleagues to focus in on 
now is really the kind of a passport that we are wanting, and that U.S. 
VISIT, and indeed the law in regard to the visa waiver program that was 
made permanent in 2000 requires them to have this type of passport 
because let me make one thing perfectly clear to my colleagues.

The visa waiver program trusts the security of our Nation to the 
background check capabilities and the passport procedures of all these 
foreign governments, the 27 countries that I mentioned and expanding 
all the time.

Basically, what we're saying, and if you will look at this next 
slide, on one side of the passport would be a digital photograph, 
again, one that is scannable. We have these iris scans, not just the 
old-fashioned finger prints, but everything in a digital way, including 
the photograph on the passport. And then I'm going to have to get a 
little closer to read this, but a machine readable passport has two 
lines of text, has letters, numbers and something called chevrons. 
Those are those greater than or less than, these little upside down Vs 
that you put, but it's a way of bringing a secure method to make sure 
people are not using fraudulent documents.

I want to talk a little bit now, Mr. Speaker, about some of the 
things that have been happening lately. It's hard to believe that 9/11 
was almost 6 years ago. 2001, we're now 2007 and approaching September. 
It's almost unbelievable, but people tend to forget, and that's part of 
the problem.

One of my colleagues, whenever he gives a 1 minute or a 5-minute 
speech or has an opportunity to speak from the well, he always says, 
and this is the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson), as he 
concludes, and we will never forget 9/11. God bless him for doing that. 
Sometimes it gets a little trite, but Joe Wilson knows of what he 
speaks.

But it's easy to forget, but nobody has forgotten about these 
doctors, doctors, medical doctors, health professionals that just 
within the last couple, 3 weeks in London and at the airport in 
Scotland, Glasgow, tried to blow up the terminal with the car bomb, 
laden with highly explosive material, and there was a warning in fact. 
Someone had said in some text messaging, beware of those who would cure 
you, meaning the doctors will kill you; those who cure you will kill 
you.

Well, these doctors in the United Kingdom were citizens of that 
country. I mean, they had passports, British passports, and in fact, a 
couple of them had actually, Mr. Speaker, made an application to come 
to the United States, I think to come to a hospital in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. They wanted to practice medicine here. Everybody does 
want to practice medicine in the United States because, despite the 
previous hour from the other side, we do have a great health care 
system. Certainly it needs some improvement, and we're going to work on 
that hopefully in a bipartisan way, but these terrorists, those who 
would cure you that would kill you, were trying, at least some of them, 
to come into this country.

And they could have come in under this visa waiver program and simply 
showed a passport that did not, by the way, have a digital photo or any 
digital text or iris scanning. And we didn't have a U.S. VISIT machine 
that we could run that passport through that so that that would 
immediately come, go into a data bank so when the 90 days were up or 
the period of time that they planned to stay, that we could find them, 
ferret them out and have the ICE, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 
agents go after them.

So this is not child's play that we're talking about here. This 
happened just within the last 3 weeks, and these were homegrown British 
terrorists that had ties to al Qaeda in Iraq.

I don't doubt the United Kingdom was one of our closest allies. 
Indeed, they are. Tony Blair has been our best friend and Gordon Brown 
will be and has been one of our best friends, but this just goes to 
show that even our greatest friends can be vulnerable to these 
homegrown terrorists possessing legitimate citizenship documentation 
and authorized legal passports.

So this is where we are, and this is what's going on this hour, and I 
will be happy to yield back to my good friend and colleague, the 
chairman, once again of our Immigration Reform Caucus for additional 
thoughts. I proudly, by the way, serve on his executive committee of 
the Immigration Reform Caucus, and I yield to my friend from 
California.