---
---

# FRESHMEN DEMOCRATS PROMOTE ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT
## `9c75f0d1938b690fdd0f2bb886033ca4`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. I thank you, Mr. Hodes, for being part of our 
freshman class and our working group that is going to be here every 
week. The 110th Congress is strengthening oversight, and the proof is 
in the pudding.

People can say, I have lost confidence in Congress, but look at what 
we are doing. We have had dozens of hearings in the Foreign Affairs 
Committee just on the ability of working with our diplomatic efforts 
and all of the strategies in dealing with Iraq on the nonmilitary side. 
In the past, there have not been enough opportunities to do that.

We've had hearings on the veterans health care crisis and Walter 
Reed, the politicalization of the Justice Department and how wrong that 
is and that needs to be cleaned up, the Hurricane Katrina response and 
the things we are doing right now, passing legislation to truly get 
people back up on their feet. Global warming and energy independence 
was mentioned, and the fact is that we are getting down to the things 
we need to do as Americans to deal with our energy needs and the fact 
that there is an environmental impact. And, of course, upcoming 
hearings of oversight on everything from Valerie Plame to oil and gas 
royalties and National Guard and intelligence.

This is part of the mandate of the last election. I look forward to 
working with our freshman class. We will be doing this every week. We 
certainly want input from our constituents back home. Tell us what you 
think we can be doing. We look forward to working with both Republicans 
and Democrats to build on this theme of accountability and oversight.
