---
---

# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `9c7e5245b3b3cdb91bfd6c0a745bdc34`
`Mr. LANGEVIN — 21 January 2010`

---


Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the bravery 
and sacrifice of the seven CIA officers and contractors who gave their 
lives in the line of duty during the December 30 bombing of a CIA base 
in Khost, Afghanistan. I also want to recognize those Americans who 
were injured in the blast and offer my wishes for a full and quick 
recovery.

As we have all learned by now, a suicide bomber who was believed to 
possess information critical to counterterrorism operations entered the 
U.S. forward operating base in Khost, where he activated explosives 
that took the lives of seven Americans, including one of our nation's 
top counterterrorism experts. Six other Americans standing nearby were 
injured in the explosion.

The men and women of our intelligence community work behind a veil of 
secrecy, yet as this tragic incident reminds us, they are still exposed 
to the dangers that come from the difficult and often thankless job of 
protecting our country. Unlike our soldiers in uniform, these public 
servants must keep their many victories secret, while their rare 
failures and raw grief make headlines. My thoughts and prayers are with 
the families of these brave men and women. They, and all the other 
patriots who serve so honorably in our intelligence community, have my 
unending gratitude and my unwavering support. I will continue to do 
everything in my power to ensure that they have the tools, resources 
and encouragement they need to keep America safe.
