---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
## `9c80c03415304a9844c06938e0254052`
`Mr. KYL — 25 September 2007`

---


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I wish to speak to two items that are before 
us as we are considering the Defense authorization bill this morning. 
The first has to do with an amendment that has been offered by Senator 
Lieberman and myself and others to declare the Islamic Revolutionary 
Guard Corps a terrorist organization, which would, if we do that, 
permit us to engage in economic sanction activity against the financing 
operations of the IRGC.

That is important, because according to all of the evidence we have, 
it is the IRGC that has been primarily responsible for the infusion 
into Iraq of the very dangerous equipment that has been causing great 
harm to our troops there, especially the new superpenetrator devices 
that are blowing up not just humvees but also even Abrams tanks.

It is the IRGC that is responsible for the training of Iraqis to be 
fighting our troops in Iraq and generally bringing the Iranian 
Government's anti-American activities from Iran into Iraq.


It is because of the IRGC's activities as a terrorist organization 
that our troops are dying in portions of Iraq today and, therefore, 
totally fitting for us to express our sense to the administration that 
it should designate the IRGC as a terrorist organization, thus, 
permitting us to invoke these economic sanctions against it.

The IRGC, interestingly enough, engages in a great deal of financial 
activity around the world, which makes these particular sanctions 
especially appropriate and potentially very effective. I am pleased it 
appears there will be an agreement on some slight modifications of 
language of the amendment which will permit us to, presumably, have a 
near unanimous vote when this amendment is considered, perhaps later 
this morning but certainly today.

I am looking forward to a colloquy with Senator Levin and Senator


Lieberman so we can discuss our joint understanding of precisely what 
this joint resolution means and be able to act upon it so we can send a 
very clear message to the Iranian Government that its involvement 
against U.S. troops in Iraq will not be countenanced.

That is especially poignant today after the appearance by the Iranian 
President at a major U.S. university and his appearance today at the 
United Nations, in which it is pretty clear he will say just about 
anything to advance what he believes is the cause animating Iran's 
activities in the world today, whether it is truthful or not.

It seems to me, until there is a firm push back against this man and 
against the regime which he runs and the terrorist arm of that regime, 
the IRGC, they are going to continue to do what they do. And that is 
why it is especially poignant today, as I said, that the Senate act on 
this sense-of-the-Senate resolution to designate the IRGC as a 
terrorist organization.

The other matter I wish to briefly talk about is another amendment 
that is pending before us offered by the Senator from Delaware. This is 
an amendment that contains several preamble statements about the 
situation in Iraq, and then calls upon the Iraqi Government to convene 
a council which will result in the creation of federal regions within 
Iraq.

This is something the Iraqi Constitution and a special law that was 
passed permit but does not mandate. It seems to me it would be a very 
big mistake on the part of the U.S. Government to be seen as demanding 
that the Iraqi Government take this step, which some would see as a 
breaking apart of the nation of Iraq, a partitioning of the country of 
Iraq into different pieces.

The people of Iraq have the authority to do that under this special 
law and under their Constitution. They fully have intended to have some 
kind of a conference to consider whether to do it. But I think it would 
be a big mistake for us to be seen as dictating to the Iraqi people how 
they want their Government ultimately to be governed, to exist, and to 
operate.

The creation of federal regions may be an appropriate way for them to 
do this; it may not. But that decision should be left to them. I think 
there has been an assumption that at least one federal region in the 
Kurdish north would be recognized, but there are questions about 
whether other federal regions would be.

I recognize there are some in the United States, and even in this 
body, who believe it would be best for Iraq if it were divided into 
federal regions. Maybe they are right; maybe they are not right. But it 
is clearly up to the Iraqi people to make this decision.

So were we to express ourselves on this, I think it would also be 
important for us to confirm our understanding and belief and commitment 
to the sovereignty of the people of Iraq to make this decision, and to 
make it clear nothing in this particular resolution in any way is 
intended to undercut the sovereignty of the Iraqi people to make this 
decision for themselves. Otherwise, I fear the resolution could be read 
as the United States dictating to the Iraqis what their country is 
going to look like in the future and especially because it relates to 
the partitioning of the country. It seems to me this would be a very 
arrogant step on our part and something that obviously we do not want 
to be seen as doing.

I also would make the point that some of the recitations at the 
beginning of this resolution are misleading, if not outright wrong. It 
talks about the sectarian violence in the country. There is sectarian 
violence, but it totally ignores the activities of al-Qaida. Since al-
Qaida has spawned much of the sectarian violence, it seems to me this 
is an incredibly important omission, especially because there are some 
in this body who talk about a change in mission, eventually having our 
mission in Iraq evolve to simply a counterterrorism mission, 
recognizing that al-Qaida is a significant force in the country, and we 
need to deal with al-Qaida.

We have al-Qaida on the run in the country, but al-Qaida is not gone 
by any means. In addition to that, al-Qaida spawns some of the 
sectarian violence as, for example, it did when it blew up the Golden 
Mosque in Samarra, thus inciting Shiites to attack Sunnis and starting 
a cycle of violence which continues to this day.

To simply refer to sectarian violence without any reference to the 
terrorism that is occurring because of al-Qaida would, I think, be a 
glaring omission and would raise significant questions. Especially if 
there are those who suggest we should eliminate a message of 
counterinsurgency, this is also totally contradictory because if you 
refer to all of the violence in the country as sectarian violence, but 
there is no counterinsurgency mission for the United States, then 
basically what you are saying is we simply leave that country to the 
tender mercies of all those groups engaged in this sectarian violence. 
That, we know, is antithetical to any kind of peaceful resolution to 
the disagreements that exist in that country and the eventual 
reconciliation of the people of that country.

So it seems to me a resolution of this type can do more harm than 
good in creating confusion about what the understanding of the United 
States of the situation in the country is, No. 1; No. 2, failing to 
recognize the prominent role that al-Qaida is playing and the 
importance of our mission in dealing with al-Qaida; and, third, 
suggesting it is the position of the United States to dictate to the 
Iraqi people that they need to partition their country when, in fact, 
that is a decision that needs to be left to them, which they could make 
if they wanted to under their Constitution, but certainly are not 
required to, and nothing we do should suggest we would require them to 
do so. We have to recognize the sovereignty of that country.


The final point I wish to make is simply this: We have been on the 
Defense authorization bill now for 2 weeks--14 days. We were on it for 
many days a couple months ago, until the bill was pulled. There has 
been a lot of criticism, especially by my colleague, the ranking member 
on the Armed Services Committee, who has made the point that the time 
is long past that we should have passed this Defense authorization 
bill, which contains so many important elements for our troops--the pay 
raise for the troops, the wounded warrior legislation, and other 
important elements that are critical for our Armed Services.

For us to continue to simply use this bill as a vehicle to deal with 
endless resolutions dealing with Iraq--I gather there are a couple more 
that are on the way--is a misuse of the legislative process and of this 
important piece of legislation.

So I hope my colleagues would conclude one of these days that we have 
to pass the Defense authorization bill for the good of the troops and 
stop this endless debate about trying to change our policy or missions 
in Iraq. We have had that debate over and over and over again. We are 
going to have it again in the future. But let's not let it dominate 
everything we do in this body. I hope we can get on to the final 
passage on the Defense authorization bill soon.

I yield the floor.