---
---

# THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9c9b0fc041a0972311f68d8cc797a593`
`Mrs. LOWEY — 21 June 2007`

---


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, my colleagues, I have a question for Mr. Boustany, my 
good friend, and the ranking member. I believe, Mr. Boustany, that you 
recommended that we fund this $158 million. Yet this amendment takes 
the money away from the State Department. Ambassador Ryan Crocker is 
doing a superb job. We just appropriated $2.8 billion in the 
supplemental. The American people have requested, and this Congress has 
requested, that we see some response to the benchmarks, that we see 
some response on the part of the Iraqi Government to the benchmarks 
that have been put in place.

So if I understand correctly, even though the supplemental funded, 
and I am not going to repeat it, every single category that my dear 
friend, the ranking member and my friend, Mr. Boustany, are advocating 
for, you want to fund $158 million with funds from the State Department 
which are supporting Ambassador Ryan Crocker and other ambassadors 
around the world who are doing such an amazing job representing us.

Mr. Chairman, I really think there is a disconnect here. I want you 
to know that for those of us who are opposing this amendment, with 
great respect, again, to my ranking member, we feel that the 
supplemental that has passed and the $2.8 billion that is coming up in 
September requested by the administration can address these issues if, 
in fact, there is an understanding that they are not being funded 
adequately.

So, again, I strongly object to this amendment. I strongly object to 
taking funds away from Ambassador Ryan Crocker and our other 
ambassadors around the world and representatives of the State 
Department.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.