---
---

# None
## `9c9d891d6a93d9718e1d01c0cf65aeb6`
`Ms. CLARKE — 13 February 2008`

---


Ms. CLARKE. Mr. Meek, I think you're being too kind. We have to put 
this where this is. The President released his last budget, and this 
budget is devastating. It's a Republican budget that plunges our 
country deeper into debt, a debt that we will pass onto our children, 
our grandchildren, and maybe even our great-grandchildren if we don't 
turn this situation around and turn it around quickly.

In the area of health care alone, the types of cuts in Medicare and 
Medicaid for our seniors and to low-income Americans, it's 
unconscionable. Again, we're facing a crisis in health care. And what 
are we seeing? Cuts. Cuts to the SCHIP program that are almost $20 
billion over the next 5 years. After all we've done to try to expand 
the program for all eligible children, the National Institutes of 
Health funding frozen just as we're about to have some breakthroughs in 
research around Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease and cancer 
and other diseases that we're desperately looking for treatment and 
cure for. I mean, in the area of education, and this is supposed to be 
the leave-no-child-behind administration, we see that the budget 
totally eliminates crucial programs that provide to the States for 
technology in classrooms. It eliminates vocational education programs 
altogether. It completely eliminates the supplemental


educational opportunity grants, Perkins loan programs. I mean, our 
commitment to the development of our Nation has to include a robust 
educational system.

We are in competition with nations from around the world. And in 
other nations they're cranking out their engineers and their scientists 
by the hundreds. We're struggling to keep up. We're struggling to be 
competitive. This Republican budget does nothing to aid in our cause to 
go forward in a robust manner. It reduces the funding for after-school 
programs by over 26 percent.

These are the areas where our communities, our States across this 
Nation need the support systems in place now that we have a 21st 
century society where parents are working, where they're not going to 
be there necessarily all the time at 3 o'clock to pick up their 
children from school. This is that period of time where all law 
enforcement agencies will tell you that children get into trouble 
between 3 and 6 o'clock. Here we see this Republican budget does not 
take into account the realities of the lives of the constituents that 
we present. So we're going to have to bring that to the table and make 
sure that is a part of the conversation as we move forward to shape 
what has been presented to us, which is really something that is 
devastating to our Nation at this time.

Homeland security. Now this is an area that really hits home for me. 
Coming from New York City, knowing what has gone into just building out 
a new bureaucracy to address our concerns for safety and for real 
protection of our homeland, to hear after all that our first responders 
have done to really bring themselves up to speed to be able to meet the 
needs of their jurisdictions, to then have the Federal Government 
renege on its commitment to them is a shame and it's a sham. To cut 
assistance to firefighters where local fire departments have needed 
equipment to keep our communities safe is unconscionable, totally 
unconscionable. For example, in New York State where New York City's 
FDNY are considered national heroes, almost $32 million have been cut 
in funding. Where do they get that money from? Where are these 
departments around this Nation going to be able to make up for the 
shortfall of the commitment made to them by our national leader? 
Unbelievable.

Cuts to homeland security grant programs, which funds every State 
based on risk by $750 million, that's an ounce of prevention there, and 
we see it being pulled away.



The important Urban Area Security Initiative, UASI, homeland security 
funding received an increase of only $5 million, which is not even 
enough to keep up with inflation. So what are we talking about here?

I often hear my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and their 
concern about border protection. Well, this is it folks. And it's the 
other side of the aisle that has turned the other way in addressing the 
priorities through this budget. Cuts to port security, critical 
transportation infrastructure, targeted infrastructure protection 
grants programs, and other important homeland security programs, right 
before our very eyes. And one of the areas that I would have thought we 
would have really just taken a little time to get fixed up, the Office 
of Appeals of Redress, which was totally left out of the budget, this 
department is the department that is responsible for enabling us to 
travel across this Nation. And for those who have, unfortunately, been 
put on the terrorist watch list, this is the area where just a little 
bit of funding would have made the difference between how we are 
currently conducting business that has shown a low value for our civil 
liberties and really bringing our processes up to date to meet the 
needs of real Americans.

So it's devastating. This budget is not reflective of the needs that 
Americans have been talking about, are concerned about, and it's 
unfortunate. But it's my hope that we will push, we will move, we will 
negotiate so that we can get some of this turned around in time for it 
to make a difference in our lives.

Just think about cuts to child care development block grants, when so 
many parents now need that extra assistance to be able to make sure 
that their families are well taken care of as they earn income to keep 
up with the cost of living. The Low Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program, as my colleague Mr. Meek talked about, this is critical in the 
northeast region where energy costs are skyrocketing and we're seeing 
some of the worst record winters in my lifetime, perhaps in many folks' 
lifetime, and not only here but in the Midwest and up the whole 
northern seacoast.

Social services block grants, these have been the areas where our 
communities have been just sort of held together by a safety net. It 
continues to be cuts.

And then of all places, veterans' health care. We talk so much about 
our concern and our gratitude to veterans particularly in this time of 
war, and it is just so hypocritical to see the type of budget cuts that 
are taking place in terms of health care services for our wounded 
warriors. This is unbelievable.

The Republican budget also assumes that the alternative minimum tax 
is not fixed. This assumes a significant increase in taxes for over 21 
million Americans after 2009, 21 million Americans, and enacting a 
permanent fix to prevent this tax from taking effect will cost about 
$313 billion over the next 5 years, and it is something that we as 
Democrats are committed to doing. Yet nothing, we receive nothing in 
this budget that indicates that we are gearing up to address this very 
important issue for working-class Americans.

The Republican budget does not contain accurate numbers for the cost 
of the Iraq War, as has been stated by my colleague Mr. Meek, and the 
administration requested $70 billion, but the average monthly cost of 
the war is over $10 billion a month. That means that the true cost of 
the war will be upwards of at least a baseline of $120 billion next 
year.

So as you can see, we have a real dilemma. The dilemma is do we 
accept the last budget of Mr. Bush, the Republican budget, which 
continues to plunge our country deeper and deeper into debt, or do we, 
as we have in the Democratic caucus, continue to push, to organize, to 
negotiate, to make sure that the needs of all Americans are attended to 
in this upcoming budget? It's a mammoth task, but I believe, Mr. Meek, 
we are up to it. It is critical that we do this. We have to get on good 
ground going forward. I mean, it's going to take a lot to get us out of 
this deficit.

First of all, we are going to have to bring an end to this war in 
Iraq because that's unfettered spending. That's unfettered spending. 
But, simultaneously, we need to really set priorities for the American 
people. And that priority has to be demonstrated in the budget that we 
pass here. It has to be demonstrated in the way in which we fund the 
critical areas of our growth and our development as a Nation. And, 
believe me, this budget falls far short of that.

It's time for folks to get their act together. This Republican budget 
plunges this country deeper into debt. We cannot afford that. We must 
become much more sober about our work here and recognize that in order 
for us to grow, we have to make sure our educational system is sound, 
our health care system is sound, and certainly make sure that our 
homeland is protected. And based on what we have received thus far, the 
Republican budget falls extremely short of that, and that is totally 
unacceptable.

So, Mr. Meek, I know that our time together here is winding down. I 
just wanted to say that this is a very important time for this House. 
And as we look at our priorities going forward, the stimulus package 
gave us a window into where we are right now, and that is we are in an 
economic crisis. And anyone who can't see the writing on the wall is 
walking around with blinders on. When you compound the economic 
distress that we are in with a budget that doesn't account for hundreds 
of billions of dollars that can be spent at a moment's notice, 
particularly in the misadventure in Iraq, and neglects to build the 
infrastructure of the Nation, areas of education where we become 
competitive, our talent is cultivated and developed, providing the 
support systems for working families like child care support, being 
able to make sure that we are healthy enough as Americans to continue 
to do the job and being productive, these areas are very important and 
crucial areas for us to move this Nation in the 21st century.



I think President Bush has thrown up his hands. This was his last 
budget. This was the best that he could do. And, unfortunately, it fell 
too short.

I want to thank you, my colleague, for sharing this time. I look 
forward to participating with you further in the future.

And I want to thank you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me this time during 
the 30-Something Working Group.