---
---

# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `9cab6a9ebbc510f5b875401b72c8f483`
`Mr. SKELTON — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

I just heard the minority leader say that we are willfully ignoring 
the consequences of Iraq. That is what I'm talking about, the willful 
consequences of Iraq when I spoke a few moments ago about the stretch 
and the strain and the difficulty of gluing our Army and Marines back 
together again.

This is serious business. We have a readiness crisis due to our 
extended operations in Iraq. Readiness in the Army's combat units has 
fallen to a dangerous level. Half of the Army's active brigades are in 
combat, and the remaining units are preparing for deployment. Units 
preparing for combat do not have all of their assigned personnel or 
equipment when preparing for combat. Combat units are experiencing 
equipment shortfalls; and let me mention that we have lost over 2,000 
trucks and Humvees, over 100 tanks and armored vehicles, and over 100 
aircraft. Combat units' readiness is being sustained at the expense of 
nondeployed units through the use of emergency war stocks.

I am worried. My heart breaks because no one seems to be listening on 
the other side, and no one who is opposed to this legislation mentioned 
in this debate anything about the stretch and the strain on our ground 
forces of the United States. That concerns me. That is the willful 
ignoring of consequences of Iraq. Something must be done.

Lee Hamilton, the co-chairman of the Iraq Study Group, spoke in a 
letter to me, which I read a few moments ago, endorsing this 
legislation as a responsible bill: We must do something, and it must be 
done today. This is serious business.

Let me salute the eloquence of my friend from California, Mr. Hunter. 
He asked us to wait until September. We have had four Septembers 
already in Iraq. And you know what? It reminds me, and maybe some of 
those who have a little gray in their hair, Mr. Speaker, will recall a 
song that was popular decades ago, and that line in that song, the 
September song, that says, we haven't got time for the waiting game. We 
don't have time for the waiting game.

This is the right time, the right measure, the right issue. It is 
right for our ground forces. It is right for those in uniform. It is 
right for their families. It is right for our country. We have been 
engaged in Iraq since March of 2003. We have threats yet unforeseen.

If we continue to strain our ground forces as they are, we will not 
be ready for them. Hopefully they never come, but as sure as God made 
little green apples, those threats will be there. That's the purpose of 
this. The readiness of our forces and the capability of what they need 
to do for us in the days ahead, that is our job under the Constitution, 
to raise and maintain. That's what we are doing.

So with that, Mr. Speaker, I say that we need to pass this 
legislation. We need to do so to pass the responsibility back to the 
Iraqis, to keep our forces in a higher state of readiness, and to make 
sure that the future is all the more safer for those of us here in our 
country.