---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `9caf2176b65cae1d8f17657563a8cd4a`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Health and Iraq Accountability 
Act of 2007.

There is no doubt that the conflict in Iraq is now a civil war marked 
primarily by sectarian violence, pitting Sunnis against Shias, with our 
troops caught in between. This bill is in fact the most responsible 
means to get our men and women out of this quagmire.

This legislation does not call for an immediate withdrawal. Instead, 
the legislation gives Iraq's government a timeline to achieve political 
and military progress, a timeline already set by President Bush and 
Iraqi leaders. If Iraq's government fails to meet the benchmarks 
outlined in the legislation, U.S. forces must be redeployed by March 
2008. If the benchmarks are met by the deadlines established in the 
legislation, U.S. forces must be redeployed by September 2008. In doing 
this,


the legislation creates leverage that the U.S. can use to hold Iraq's 
government accountable and make it ultimately responsible for creating 
a political solution to this conflict that will result in American 
troops coming home.

I acknowledge that Congress should generally avoid trying to micro-
manage a war. When decisions need to be made, there is no time for 
committee hearings or floor votes; the Commander-in-Chief may need to 
act immediately. However, this Administration, contrary to the facts of 
the situation on the ground, continues to claim that success is around 
the corner. The then-Republican Chairman of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee stated that ''in two or three months if this thing hasn't 
come to fruition and this level of violence is not under control'' then 
we would need to rethink our policy--he made that statement six months 
ago.

Some have suggested that any deadline is problematic. However, the 
Administration's original time estimate for the war was 'six days, six 
weeks, no more than six months,' so a firm deadline 18 months from now, 
after four years of this open ended conflict, cannot create any more 
problems than we already have and in fact sets a date that we can begin 
to bring our troops home.

Mr. Speaker, today's legislation, for the first time in the four year 
history of this conflict, finally puts real pressure on the President 
and Iraq's leaders to bring this war to an end. This bill will begin a 
responsible process to remove our forces from Iraq.


Foreign Policy Experts Support H.R. 1591. Former National Security 
Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski has stated that ''only a political solution 
will end this war,'' and that the plan approved by the House today 
provides ''a means to hold the Iraqi government accountable for its 
performance by conditioning U.S. support to the meeting of benchmarks 
already endorsed by President Bush and Iraqi leaders.''

Former Secretary of State Madeline Albright recently stated, ''the 
bottom line is that there must be a political settlement in Iraq that 
will end the civil war and reduce the level of insecurity to something 
that can be managed. With a settlement, we could withdraw gradually, 
with mission accomplished. Without a settlement, our troops can do 
little good and might as well come home sooner rather than later.''

In a letter to House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, 
former Congressman, 9/11 Commissioner and co-chair of the Iraq Study 
Group, Lee Hamilton said that ''a strategy of sustained pressure on the 
Iraqi government to meet benchmarks on national reconciliation, 
security, and improving the lives of the Iraqi people--backed by clear 
conditionality of U.S. support--has the best chance of advancing 
stability in Iraq.'' Congressman Hamilton added under the House 
proposal, ''the President retains his flexibility and authority as 
commander-in-chief.''

High Ranking Military Officials have questioned our current policy in 
Iraq.

Former Supreme Allied Commander of NATO Gen. Wesley Clark (Ret.), 
former President of the National Defense University Lt Gen. Robert G. 
Gard, Jr. (Ret.), former Deputy Commander of Multinational Force Iraq 
Lt. Gen. Peter Chiarelli, current Deputy Commander of Multinational 
Force Iraq Lt. Gen. Raymond Odierno, and First Head of Training of 
Troops in Iraq Maj. Gen Paul Eaton (Ret.), have all pointed out that 
the solution in Iraq is primarily political, diplomatic and economic.

In an open letter to Congress, several retired generals and other 
high ranking military officials stated that the situation in Iraq is 
''grave and deteriorating'' and that top military officials have 
''consistently acknowledged that the repeated and lengthy deployments 
are straining'' the U.S. military.

General David Petraeus, the new Commander of Multinational Force 
Iraq, recently declared that ''there is no military solution to a 
problem like that in Iraq.''

I urge my colleagues to support the bill.