---
---

# ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE 110TH CONGRESS
## `9cb4a224db63f8132a55bfb0f7956e47`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 31 October 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Well, my first act is to give my greatest 
appreciation for this caring and vested freshman class, front liners, 
front


thinkers, front runners running toward the next generation. I cannot 
thank you enough for joining this Congress with one mission, and that 
is that we are, servants of America.


And I've asked today, officially, on the record, to get that article 
I pin, and to reemphasize the language that my good friend has before 
him by just holding up the Constitution and reinforcing the language 
that all powers herein granted shall be vested in the Congress of the 
United States, which shall consist of the Senate and the House.

And I just want to speak, somewhat weaving in to this idea of 
veterans and the war in Iraq and why we have the ability even to 
address that question of the Iraq war, because as my colleagues know, 
there was never a constitutional declaration of war. It was statutory. 
That was in the fall of 2002 when, by public law, we gave the President 
simply an opportunity to negotiate and then ultimately, if necessary, 
to use force.

So I raise the question, because Congress has, in some sense, been 
stifled by others not thinking the way the American people have asked 
us to think and act, and that is to focus resources on veterans, on the 
domestic agenda, and to be able to say that we have, in essence, 
finished our job in Iraq.

And so I wanted to offer to my good friends H.R. 4020 that the 
chairman of the Veterans Committee has joined me in offering, or 
introducing, which calls itself the Military Success Act. And of course 
all eyebrows will be raised. Sounds conflicted. But I thought and 
thought about this, and I continue to hear the terminology, cut-and-
run, not willing to support the troops. So we went to the Pentagon, and 
in this legislation we chronicle all of the successes of the United 
States Military, in particular in Iraq. We do it in Iraq and not 
Afghanistan because that's an ongoing mission. We know that there's 
more work to be done there. And we come to a conclusion, and I'll just 
briefly read this: That the public law that we voted on in 2002 
authorized by the President to use military force against Iraq, it goes 
on to list the indicia or the points of that bill. And it concludes by 
saying, according to that public law, we believe that, in fact, all of 
this has been achieved. A simple statement. It doesn't follow up by 
saying, come home. Of course, that's what I would suggest once you read 
a statement that says all that you were asked to do, the United States 
Military, you've achieved it. And we finish this up by calling on 
America to have days of proclamation and ribbons, and as these soldiers 
come home, unlike Vietnam, that we actually have days of recognition 
for those soldiers. And ultimately it finishes, because I heard my 
distinguished colleague speak of veterans, by giving these returning 
soldiers a $5,000 stipend.

Now, this does not leave out Afghanistan soldiers. This really 
appeals or deals with the whole idea of the fact that their mission is 
completed. We do it in a way to call it a military success. And we know 
that there are many other things that need to be done. But what that 
does is it gives Congress the power to make its own statement that the 
initiative that we voted for, statutory, the public law in 2002 that 
gave powers is now being brought to an end, that we, as a Congress, are 
saying that we applaud our military, and those resources that are now 
being used for the war, $120 billion, can be used for SCHIP, can be 
used to fix Medicare.

I sat down with some seniors who wanted us to fix the prescription 
part D. They said, Can you help us? Can you get back in there and help 
us to understand it?

And then of course, what it does, it honors our soldiers. It dashes 
this whole cut-and-run, this whole accusation of being nonpatriotic.

And so I thank my colleagues for letting me present H.R. 4020 in 
conjunction with the recognition of article I. This bill was introduced 
today. I encourage my colleagues to sign on. We think that it has a 
very important statement as to the authority of the Congress and the 
responsibilities of the Congress to control a statute that it gave 
powers, and seemingly the President is not willing to acknowledge that 
the task and the job is well done on behalf of the United States 
Military in Iraq. We can do better, and I think the American people are 
waiting for the article I-ers to take charge so that we can get back on 
our agenda of serving the American public.

I thank you for giving me the opportunity to join an important 
debate. I look forward to the article I pin.

And finally, I hope that the American public will get it, knowing 
that the Congress has to have the authority to go forward on their 
behalf.

This legislation, the ''Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 
2007,'' recognizes the extraordinary performance of the Armed Forces in 
achieving the military objectives of the United States in Iraq, 
encourages the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the 
people of the United States to observe a national day of celebration 
commemorating the military success of American troops in Iraq, and 
provides other affirmative and tangible expressions of appreciation 
from a grateful nation to all veterans of the war in Iraq.

As I have stated many times, ''when our heroic young men and women 
willingly sacrifice life or limb on the battlefield, the nation has a 
moral obligation to ensure that they are treated with respect and 
dignity. One reason we are the greatest nation in the world is because 
of the brave young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. They deserve honor, they deserve dignity, and they deserve 
to know that a grateful nation cares about them.''

My legislation, the Military Success in Iraq Commemoration Act of 
2007, H.R. 4020 pays fitting tribute to the valor, devotion, and 
heroism of those who fought in Iraq in the following ways:

A. Provides an express acknowledgment by the Congress that the 
objectives for which the AUMF resolution of 2002 authorized the use of 
force in Iraq were achieved by the Armed Forces of the United States, 
which performed magnificently in battle;

B. Recounts several notable achievements of the Armed Forces in 
Operation Iraqi Freedom;

C. Authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling upon the 
American people to observe a national day of celebration commemorating 
the Armed Forces' military success in Iraq. This will help ensure that 
the Iraq War does not suffer the fate of other open-ended engagements 
like the Korean War, which is often called the ''Forgotten War'';

D. Authorizes funds to be appropriated and awarded by the Secretary 
of Defense to state and local governments to assist in defraying the 
costs of conducting suitable ''Success in Iraq'' homecoming and 
commemoration activities and in creating appropriate memorials honoring 
those who lost their lives in the war. Many of the casualties in the 
Iraq War come from small towns and villages in rural or economically 
depressed areas. The local governments are already facing substantial 
fiscal pressures and need help coming up with the necessary; and

E. Creates a program and authorizes funds to be appropriated pursuant 
to which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall award to each veteran 
of the Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom a grant of $5,000 
to facilitate the transition to civilian life. We don't want veterans 
to end up homeless or unemployed or unable to take their kids on a 
vacation or start a business. This $5,000 bonus is but a small token of 
the affection the people of the United States have for those who risked 
their lives so that we may continue to live in freedom.

Outside my office there is a poster board with the names and faces of 
those heroes from Houston, Texas who have lost their lives wearing the 
uniform of our country. It is humbling to recognize how lucky we are to 
live in a nation where so many brave young men and women volunteer 
knowing they may be called upon to make the ultimate sacrifice so that 
their countrymen can enjoy the blessings of liberty. The intent of my 
legislation is to pay fitting tribute to these great men and women and 
to let them know they will not be forgotten. I request and welcome your 
support in making this message heard.