---
---

# GAS PRICES
## `9cbd627472fec348280fc0df8ff87106`
`Mr. DORGAN — 24 July 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I believe the majority leader is coming 
over, but I would like to speak until he arrives, at which point I will 
continue later.

Mr. President, we had a hearing yesterday before the Senate 
Appropriations Committee that I had requested. That followed a hearing 
that I had conducted on the Democratic policy committee, the 17th 
hearing I have conducted and chaired, looking into the issue of 
contractor irregularities and waste, fraud, and abuse involving 
contractors with respect to the war in Iraq.

I want to talk just for a moment about what is happening with respect 
to these contractors.

We are shoveling money out the door. Three-quarters of $1 trillion 
has been spent, and much of it ends up in the pockets of contractors, 
and much of the work by contractors not only fleeces the American 
taxpayer, but it represents, I think, the greatest waste, fraud, and 
abuse in the history of this country. I think it is also the case that 
it endangers the lives of American soldiers.

So what I would like to do for a moment is to describe the hearing 
that I held recently and show a photograph of Cheryl Harris and her 
son, SSG Ryan Maseth.

Ryan Maseth was an Army Ranger and a Green Beret. He was killed in 
Iraq. He wasn't killed by an insurgent or killed by enemy fire. He was 
killed because he was electrocuted while he was taking a shower at the 
Army base. He was electrocuted while taking a shower.

It turns out the contractor that wired that particular area didn't 
know how to wire and didn't properly attach ground wires. So when this 
Army Ranger reached up and touched a pipe, he was electrocuted and 
died.

The Army initially told Cheryl they thought perhaps her son had taken 
an electrical appliance into the shower and, therefore, was 
electrocuted. Not true. It is not true. Halliburton--or Kellogg, Brown 
& Root, its former subsidiary--had been given the contract for wiring 
these facilities at Army bases and were hiring, among others, third-
country nationals who had very little electrical experience. Two people 
who were electricians and working there in Iraq and Afghanistan for 
Kellogg, Brown & Root came and testified and said the work done by KBR 
was the most shoddy, unbelievably sloppy work.

Thirteen people have been electrocuted in Iraq as a result of these 
kinds of things. So I don't understand the recent order by the Defense 
Contract Management Agency, and announced by General Petraeus, that the 
Pentagon is going to have the same contractor that caused some of these 
problems--the contractor that has in a number of instances failed to 
fix faulty wiring--do a comprehensive review of these problems 
throughout U.S. military installations in Iraq. It makes precious 
little sense to me that would be the case.

This is Larraine McGee. Her son was killed as well. Larraine McGee's 
son was killed while power washing a humvee. He was killed not by an 
enemy combatant but power washing a humvee vehicle. Again, improper 
wiring and grounding meant this soldier was electrocuted.

How do these things go unfixed? What kind of work is done by 
contractors, and who cares about all this? We had testimony from Debbie 
Crawford, who was an electrician who worked for the contractor in Iraq. 
She described work by people who were not qualified. She described KBR 
supervisors who said: Well, this is not the United States. There is no 
OSHA here.

Mr. Jeffrey Bliss, an electrician for KBR, said there was pervasive 
carelessness and disregard for quality electrical work at Kellogg, 
Brown & Root.

Again, I say to you that we are told, with the news of all of these 
problems, with 13 people, 11 of them soldiers, being electrocuted in 
Iraq because of shoddy wiring by contractors, the Pentagon has asked 
the same contractor to go out and review the work. It is nearly 
unbelievable to me.

Mr. President, there are so many problems in Iraq contracting that I 
am going to try to come tomorrow and talk about the 17 hearings I have 
held and how much money the American taxpayers have been charged for 
such shoddy work. It is not just fleecing the American taxpayers, it is 
also injuring American soldiers when we have contractors not doing the 
job for which they were contracted to do.

Again, this is a photograph of Larraine McGee, who is Sergeant 
Everett's mother, and Sergeant Everett, as I indicated, was 
electrocuted as a result of improper grounding. Ms. McGee learned from 
a newspaper that 10 other soldiers were electrocuted in Iraq due to 
faulty electrical grounding and faulty wiring. So she came to Congress 
pleading for help, pleading that somebody do something. She said:




 Anger has now taken over my grief. I plead with you to do 


 something to bring an end to this unnecessary cause of death 


 to our soldiers. They should not have to worry about stepping 


 into a shower or using a power washer in the safety of an 


 established base.


As I indicated, the Pentagon ordered there be a comprehensive 
inspection of electrical installations at the Army bases in Iraq, but 
it hired the same company to do the inspections, the same company who 
had hired two electricians who came to this Congress to say the 
electrical work was unbelievably shoddy and done, in some cases, by 
people who didn't have the foggiest idea what they were doing.

I sent a letter to General Petraeus last Friday, signed by Senators 
Casey, Cantwell, Klobuchar, and Whitehouse, urging him to replace KBR 
in these inspections. The inspections should be done by objective, 
qualified electricians. KBR has shown itself to be incapable of fixing 
electrical hazards that had been known for years. It is an insult to 
the memory of these soldiers that KBR has now been assigned to conduct 
the inspections.

There is more to this story. I will, tomorrow, visit about a wider 
range of these issues.

I yield the floor.