---
---

# HONORING THE GOOD DEEDS OF BEVERLY YOUNG
## `9cd55391c30cbc1b420ba60ff56c8f35`
`Mr. MURTHA — 6 March 2009`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the valor of 
someone who is no stranger to good deeds and heroic actions. For those 
of us who have the pleasure of knowing her, Beverly Young is an 
activist at heart, and a go-getter by reputation.

Beverly, wife of our good friend and colleague Bill Young, has never 
backed down from an obstacle or challenge standing in her way. She is 
universally recognized for getting things done.

On a US Airways flight from Tampa, FL to Washington, DC this week, an 
elderly woman collapsed in the airplane lavatory and lost 
consciousness. When no one with medical training stepped forward to 
help, Beverly, a former firefighter and medic, rushed to her side. 
Using her skills in CPR, Beverly revived the woman and remained with 
her to make sure she kept awake and alert.

Others on the flight that day probably thought that this was just the 
one-time act of a Good Samaritan. But for those of us who know her, her 
quick action to help someone in need was far from ordinary.

Madam Speaker, since the beginning of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, Beverly Young has been a fixture in the halls of our 
nation's military medical centers. She's not there to receive fanfare 
or to seek recognition; she's there to support the thousands of our 
nation's best and brightest who have been injured serving our great 
country.

Beverly is not an occasional visitor; she is there constantly for 
these young men and women and their families, becoming as familiar to 
them as anyone else they encounter during their recovery. She listens 
to each and every one of them, and she makes sure that they get what 
they need, whether it's food or supplies or fighting the Washington 
bureaucracy on their behalf.

Madam Speaker, our country is a better place because of people like 
Beverly Young. Her selfless service has earned her the respect and 
gratitude of all those she has helped, and all those who have witnessed 
her good deeds in action.



