# THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `9cdfcb6ff797ece2595cd52d39c92f1b`
`Ms. WATSON — 11 January 2007`

---


Ms. WATSON. Thank you so much, Representative Waters, for allowing us 
this opportunity to express our feelings towards the escalation of the 
war, the war of choice, in Iraq.

I am adamantly against this expansion. I see it as another 
provocation. I see Iraq now being the spawning ground that attracts all 
those who hate America to come and kill Americans.

The President is asking for 21,500 more troops to go on the killing 
fields. We don't even know who the enemy is. We use the name 
insurgents. We don't even know the President's definition for victory. 
How do you measure victory?

I remember the day that a great many Members stood up saluting the 
fact that Iraq had a democratic election. Apparently, there is no faith 
in those that were elected to administer the country of Iraq because 
they are talking about America losing the war.

We were told by Rumsfeld that 368,000 Iraqis had been trained. Where 
are they? Do they run away in the heat of battle? There is a lot of 
mystery surrounding this whole debacle called the ''war against 
terrorism'' in Iraq.

I thought we were looking for Osama bin Laden. All of a sudden we 
switched over to a nation of 28 million people, to Saddam Hussein, who 
didn't like Osama bin Laden.

I really feel that we were misdirected, misguided and, really, bottom 
line, lied to. And I don't know if you knew this, but while the 
President was making his presentation last night on a new direction 
forward, U.S. forces entered the Iranian consulate in Iraq's Kurdish-
dominated north and seized computers, documents, and other items. It 
was also reported that five staff members were taken into custody. This 
is during the time that the President was making his speech.

Now, what I fear is that when the President said the axis of evil, 
Iran and North Korea, one down, the second one to come, and the third 
one very soon.

Mr. Speaker, I wish to end with giving you this piece of information. 
What does that state? I understand right now that the United States has 
worked with the Iraqi Government to have a law where they will contract 
out their oil for the next 30 years and 75 percent of the proceeds will 
go to the contractors. Seventy-five percent. It is the major rip-off of 
all time.

Was that the real reason why we invaded without provocation into 
Iraq?