# RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT
## `9cee34191cc381c739f4053c3af6af1d`
`Ms. KILPATRICK — 12 July 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, the Greek historian Herodotus is often 
called the ''father of history.'' In his work, The Histories, he 
attempted to chronicle the origin and outcome of the Greco-Persian War 
so that future generations could learn from experience. Unfortunately, 
for the men and women in Iraq and their families and for the American 
people, President Bush refuses to use what we have learned to revise 
our strategy for Iraq, redeploy our troops, and refocus on the 
priorities and protection of America's families.

The President continues to insist that America's involvement in the 
war in Iraq is an integral part of the war on terrorism. The Iraq Study 
Group, among other objective observers, repeatedly refuted this 
statement. Perhaps worse than this statement is that, despite the 
President's claims, the evidence indicates that progress is not being 
made in Iraq:

America's families unjustly continue to bear the burden of war; they 
have paid the price with the loss of 3,600 lives and with injuries to 
26,000 service men and women. The order of nature has been violated--
fathers and mothers are burying their sons and daughters. How many more 
of our loved ones will pay the ultimate sacrifice for the freedom of 
others?

America's families have paid more than $450 billion in taxes that 
have been use to fund failure instead of our future. We build stronger 
families and a stronger America when we provide our citizens with 
access to quality education, affordable housing and healthcare, well-
paying jobs, and financial security. How much more will we spend before 
we realize that the very foundation of our future has crumbled beneath 
our feet?

The Iraqi Government has failed to meet critical benchmarks endorsed 
by the President in January. The President has said, ''when they stand 
up, we'll stand down.'' The Iraqis have not amended their Constitution, 
passed an equitable oil sharing law, reformed laws to provide 
government jobs to former members of the Ba'ath Party, or held 
provincial elections. When are the Iraqis going to stand up?

Seventy percent of Americans support withdrawing almost all U.S. 
troops from Iraq by April 2008; half do not believe that the increase 
in U.S. forces since January of this year has made a difference. In 
addition, several Republicans have joined Democrats in calling for a 
new direction in Iraq. However, the President continues to wage a war 
with complete disregard for the concerns of the American people and the 
counsel of military leaders. When will the President connect the dots 
and see that the picture he has drawn is not a pretty one?

The Iraq Study Group stated that the use of the military in Iraq has 
passed; it is time for diplomacy to take place. Regrettably, diplomacy 
has not been seriously considered by the President, and internecine 
warfare and outright civil war has filled the vacuum of this viable 
option in Iraq. Also, the refugee problem in Iraq has worsened the 
situation in the Middle East; to date, the United States has taken in 
less than 200 refugees from Iraq after promising to take in thousands. 
Why haven't we taken in more refugees or fully allowed diplomacy to 
bear fruit?

These are among the many reasons why I support H.R. 2956, the 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. I have opposed this war from 
the beginning and have been engaged in a continuing fight to change 
course. While our troops have performed heroically, violence remains 
high, and we must remove them from harm's way; we must require Iraqis 
to take responsibility for their own fate, and we must refocus on 
investing in America's families. This legislation--which is consistent 
with the advice of military and foreign policy experts, ensures the 
safety of our men and women in uniform, addresses our commitment to 
fighting terrorism, and reflects the will of the American people--
allows us to do just that. This bill:

Acknowledges that our military has accomplished the mission they were 
given in the original 2002 authorization to use force and that Iraq is 
now responsible for its own future.

Requires American forces to begin redeploying within 120 days and to 
complete the transition to a limited presence by April 1, 2008.

Reiterates that the redeployment must be done in a safe and orderly 
way, with maximum attention paid to the protection of American forces.

Requires a comprehensive strategy by January 1, 2008, for U.S. policy 
in Iraq, including a discussion of American national security interests 
in Iraq and the broader region, the specific missions remaining forces 
would undertake, and minimum force levels required to accomplish them.

Names specific missions that the President must consider, but it does 
not require or authorize those missions.

Requires the President to submit updates on the use of and need for 
any forces remaining in Iraq every 90 days starting on July 1, 2008.

Dag Hammarskjold, a Swedish statesman and United Nations official, 
once said, ''There is a point at which everything becomes simple and 
there is no longer any question of choice, because all you have staked 
will be lost if you look back. This is life's point of no return.'' 
Certainly, the President and administration have reached that point. 
For them, the decision to stay the course is simple because it is too 
difficult to admit failure. However, as the representative for 670,000 
of God's best in Michigan's 13th Congressional District, I am willing 
to make the hard choices. I believe the majority of my colleagues are, 
too.

The President can no longer afford to let his pride get in the way of 
making the right decision. Our troops, our families, our international 
reputation, and our future are at stake.

In the Bible, we read in Chronicles 7:14 that ''If my people, which 
are called by my name, shall humble themselves . . . and turn from 
their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and . . . will heal 
their land.'' The international community--the billions of us who 
inhabit our home of planet earth--are children of God. We must learn to 
walk in the light and in love. It is out of my love of God, my love of 
the Constitution, my love of this country, and my love of my 
constituents, that I ask my colleagues to join me in support of the 
Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act.