---
---

# None
## `9cf0167cedf8f3f3f2470c6d13f3ec53`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know what they say. They have Democrats and 
Republicans and members of the Appropriations Committee, and I happen 
to be on the floor with two of them. One is a cardinal and one thinks 
that he's actually running the country, but I would say that as we 
continue to talk about this, especially in Armed Services, and Chairman 
Ike Skelton has done an excellent job in the defense authorization 
bill, getting us to a readiness stage where we can deal with the 
issues, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, that you outlined.

These are very important issues, especially the Gulf Coast States or 
any State that has a, Kansas for instance, it has a natural disaster or 
have a disaster where they need the National Guard to have the 
equipment that they need, it's in that authorization bill, and I want 
to thank not only my colleagues on the committee but also Mr. Skelton 
for all of his hard work on the authorization end.

But I think it's also important for us to note that our mission, we 
talk about redeployment. We're talking about redeployment and deploying 
a diplomatic corps to work with the Iraqi Government and have a surge 
in diplomacy or an escalation in diplomacy. Why can't we get other 
countries to join us? Well, why would they want to join something that 
is going to create more terrorism or terrorists in their country? 
That's what we're doing, and so I think it's important for everyone to 
understand that.

And I share that with my constituents when I go out to speak to them. 
We're in here having this meeting here, we're sitting in this living 
room, and someone kicks in the door and come in and do a security 
search; how would you feel? Who would be responsible for that? You 
would be outraged.

Iraq is not the United States, by far, but I want to share with you 
that many of our men and women are following the duty that we've asked 
them to carry out, and they trust us that we will ask the questions 
that we should ask here in Washington, DC and carry it out.

I just want you to respond to that because I know that you have some 
words of wisdom, especially on that end, in all seriousness, because 
it's just simple common sense to do the things we should be doing. It 
does not take a rocket scientist, and you don't have to be a four-star 
general to understand that what we're doing is not working. And to say 
let's keep doing it and declassifying information and saying this is 
the reason why I did this, this is the reason why I did that, it still 
does not equate to why we're still doing the same thing and expecting 
different results.

I will use this analogy before I yield to you. It's almost like going 
to the refrigerator and taking out a carton of milk, taking a smell of 
the milk and saying, wow, it's sour, I will put it back in and maybe 
it'll be fresh tomorrow. It works against logic.

And what's happening now is that the strategy that the White House 
has works against logic, but unfortunately, it would be okay if it was 
just an individual, but it's dealing with U.S. lives. I know all of us 
want to save lives, but we have to make sure that we do everything we 
can to send a message to the White House, and also man up and woman up 
here in Congress, and be leaders in that direction towards safety and 
accountability and moving the Iraqi issue in a new direction.