# STAFF SERGEANT EDWARDO LOREDO--AMERICAN SOLDIER
## `9cf3454d3c50e68e3c6ea250aca44dce`
`Mr. POE of Texas — 13 July 2010`

---


Mr. POE of Texas. Madam Speaker, it's my solemn honor tonight to pay 
tribute to an American hero and a son of Texas killed in Afghanistan in 
service to our country.

Staff Sergeant Edwardo Loredo died in Afghanistan supporting 
Operation Enduring Freedom. Edwardo was killed by injuries sustained 
when an IED was detonated near his dismounted patrol. Madam Speaker, 
IEDs are the way the cowards of the desert fight against our Americans. 
Sergeant Loredo was just 34 years of age, and it was just one day 
before his 35th birthday when he gave his life for our Nation.

This great American warrior was born and raised in Houston, Texas. He 
was an Army Airborne soldier. Edwardo served combat tours in both Iraq 
and Afghanistan and was with C Company, 2nd Battalion, 508th Parachute 
Infantry Regiment, 82nd Airborne out of Fort Bragg.

Now the 82nd Airborne Division has had its share of famous soldiers, 
from Sergeant Alvin C. York to General James M. Gavin. But the real 
story of the 82nd Airborne Division is the selfless men like Edwardo 
Loredo--one of the thousands of paratroopers in jump boots, baggy 
pants, and maroon berets. They jump out of aircraft loaded with a ton 
of gear and stare danger right in the face. And if you are looking for 
peril, you will find our paratroopers there, jumping out of airplanes 
into the worst hellholes on the planet, finding the terrorists cowering 
in their caves, taking the fight to the enemy, and treading where the 
timid dare not go.

You see, Madam Speaker, our Airborne soldiers plant the American flag 
and say, The American soldier is here to defend freedom and liberty. 
They go to liberate, not to conquer. And you can point them to danger, 
and they'll jump right in. They're the Airborne soldiers of the 82nd. 
They're called the ''All Americans,'' signified by their famous ''AA'' 
patch on their shoulder. Their division was first formed by soldiers 
from all of the 48 States at the time.

Staff Sergeant Edwardo Loredo was one of such American troopers. He 
graduated from Sam Houston High School and joined the Army shortly 
after graduation. He met his wife, Jennifer, in the Army. First 
Sergeant Jennifer Loredo, Edwardo's wife, was deployed to northern 
Afghanistan when she got news that her husband had been killed in 
southern Afghanistan.

This fine young couple are examples of the absolute best America has. 
They sacrificed so much in service for the country that they love. 
Edwardo called his fellow soldiers his family as well, and he loved the 
Army life.

Edwardo is survived by his 2-year-old son, Eddie; his 7-year-old 
daughter, Laura; and his 13-year-old stepdaughter, Alexis.

His family says Edwardo was an adventurer. He adored his wife and 
father, and he loved to cook for his family. America is blessed to have 
such a rare breed of man who serves as protector to his family and to 
his Nation.

Madam Speaker, this is a photograph of Staff Sergeant Edwardo Loredo. 
General Douglas MacArthur talked about such men, and he summed up their 
service in three words when he said, ''Duty, honor, country.'' Those 
three hallowed words reverently dictate what these people will be, what 
they can be, and what they will always be. Staff Sergeant Edwardo 
Loredo lived those words. He honored his country and his family with 
his courage and his dedication, and he gave his life for the things he 
believed in.

It was once said that what we do for ourselves dies with us, but what 
we do for the others and the world remains and is immortal. Edwardo's 
sacrifice will not be forgotten by our Nation. Staff Sergeant Edwardo 
Loredo's name is now written on the sacred rolls of American patriots 
who paid in blood for this Nation's freedom and for the freedom of 
other nations.

Today I offer a grateful nation's thanks and prayers. We are grateful 
that a man like Edwardo Loredo lived and loved America. My heartfelt 
condolences to Edwardo's wife and children, his friends and family in 
Houston, and to the 82nd Airborne family. Today we honor this great 
American warrior's life and are humbled by his greatest of sacrifices. 
We are truly blessed to have called Staff Sergeant Edwardo Loredo an 
American.

And that's just the way it is.
