---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `9cfa2ddebb6362f29adf660f4393a896`
`Mrs. MALONEY of New York — 24 May 2007`

---


Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, today we are considering 
funding legislation for the war in Iraq which unfortunately does not 
include the timelines for bringing the troops home that I and many of 
my colleagues have supported previously. While I strongly believe that 
we must provide the troops with the resources that they need to do 
their jobs, I cannot support an amendment that would leave them in Iraq 
indefinitely.

The intent of the benchmarks included in this amendment seems to be 
to send an important signal to the Iraqi government that it must make 
progress on the political, economic, and security fronts. I know that 
we all want to see that happen, but it is up to those of us in Congress 
who are committed to ending this war to ensure that the administration 
and the Iraqi government realize that we, and the American people, will 
not accept any more blank checks or false promises.

I do intend to support the amendment that will be offered to provide 
more than $20 billion for several key domestic items that have been 
part of the Democratic Majority's agenda. This amendment includes $1.8 
billion for veterans' health care as well as funding for military 
health care, children's health care, and Hurricane Katrina recovery 
efforts. I am very pleased that this amendment includes the minimum 
wage increase that millions of hard-working Americans have been waiting 
on for a decade. I also want to commend Chairman Obey and the 
Appropriations Committee for including $50 million for Ground Zero 
workers and responders who risked their lives and are now suffering 
devastating health effects because of their brave service following the 
9/11 terrorist attacks. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment 
so that we will provide long overdue relief to those Americans who need 
it.

I am pleased to note that the rule, which I supported, that provided 
for consideration of these amendments ensures that before any further 
supplemental appropriations bills to fund the war can be considered, a 
vote must occur on legislation to redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq.

I am disappointed that the bill that will be sent to the President 
does not set out a clear path to end the war in Iraq. However, I and my 
colleagues who agree on this issue will continue to work for what the 
American people overwhelmingly voted for in November: a new direction, 
both in Iraq and at home.