# IN HONOR OF CONGRESSMAN HENRY HYDE
## `9d0ff1f1173a77a1c3f2900f665d4911`
`Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota â€” 6 December 2007`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
late Congressman Henry Hyde who passed away on November 29, 2007.

Representative Hyde was a man of great honor and a dedicated public 
servant. He served for 32 years in the U.S. House of Representatives, 
representing the Chicago suburbs. During that time he served as 
Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee from 1995 to 2001 and as 
Chairman of the House International Affairs Committee from 2001 to 
2007.

I had the honor of serving with Mr. Hyde as a member of the House 
International Affairs Committee during his time as Chair. He was a 
thoughtful and insightful Committee Chair who was willing to mentor a 
new member of the other party. I will always remember Mr. Hyde's help 
in including three important provisions in the original President's 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). These provisions on drug 
resistance, orphans and vulnerable children, and tracking the sale of 
drugs on the black market were ensured a place in the legislation 
largely because of Mr. Hyde's support. I will also never forget the 
opportunity to travel with Mr. Hyde to Mexico, where it was evident 
that he was well-respected by world leaders.

One of the things I recall most clearly about Representative Hyde was 
his command of the English language and his oratorical skills. When 
Secretary Rice appeared before the International Affairs Committee, he 
so eloquently expressed his disappointment that the Bush Administration 
had failed to live up to its obligation to ensure security in Iraq.

In addition to his many years as an elected leader, Mr. Hyde was a 
celebrated athlete in college, a veteran, and a lawyer. In recognition 
of his accomplishments, in October of this year, Congressman Hyde was 
awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, our country's highest 
civilian honor.

On behalf of the families of Minnesota's Fourth Congressional 
District, we extend our prayers and sincerest condolences to his wife, 
children and all of the family and friends of Representative Hyde. He 
will be remembered in the highest regard, and I will miss him.

Madam Speaker, please join me in paying special tribute to the life 
and service of Congressman Henry Hyde.
