---
---

# FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `9d1169ddc814fd2893b59e5e1ba8c1ec`
`Mr. DURBIN — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the Free Flow of Information Act is a 
bipartisan bill that goes a long way towards protecting the freedom of 
the press and the public's right to information without compromising 
national security or the work of law enforcement. It strikes the right 
balance between these competing priorities, and it deserves this body's 
support. I want to commend Senator Specter and Senator Schumer, the 
authors of this legislation, which I am proud to cosponsor.

During the last 30 years, many of our most important news stories 
were revealed to us by reporters who obtained their information from 
confidential sources. Often, these stories exposed government and 
corporate waste, fraud and abuse. Let me give you a few examples of 
what these confidential sources enabled journalists to report to the 
public: the President's warrantless surveillance program; the unsafe 
and deteriorating conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center; the 
treatment of Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib; the Enron accounting fraud 
scandal; the rampant abuse of steroids in major league baseball; and 
the government's misleading statements to the American people about the 
Vietnam war, as documented in the Pentagon Papers.

These and other major stories led to important reforms in the 
government and in industry. If confidential sources had not trusted 
reporters and come forward with this information, these stories would 
not have come to light when they did. We are a better and stronger 
country because of these stories.

Unfortunately, the relationship of trust between reporters and 
confidential sources has come under attack since September 11.

Increasingly, Federal prosecutors, special prosecutors and civil 
litigants are issuing subpoenas to reporters for their confidential 
sources.

In the last 4 years alone, journalists have received at least 35 
Federal subpoenas for confidential information. During this period, 
Federal courts have held 13 journalists in contempt for refusing to 
disclose their confidential sources.

Since 2000, four journalists--Judith Miller, Jim Taricani, Josh Wolf 
and Vanessa Leggett--have been imprisoned for 19 months in total for 
refusing to disclose their confidential sources.

Earlier this year, a Federal judge ordered a reporter to disclose a 
confidential source and threatened her with fines of $5,000 per day if 
she did not.

This has created a chilling effect on the flow of information between 
confidential sources and reporters.

The media shield bill would address this problem by creating a 
Federal qualified privilege for communications between confidential 
sources and reporters.

It allows the government and private litigants to compel the 
disclosure of confidential information only if they persuade a Federal 
judge that: they have exhausted the alternative sources of that 
information; the information is essential to their case; and 
nondisclosure would on balance be contrary to the public interest.

The bill makes it easier for the government to overcome the privilege 
in criminal cases.

It also creates sensible exceptions that ensure that this qualified 
privilege does not compromise national security or the work of law 
enforcement agencies. In particular, the privilege does not apply to: 
confidential information that relates to criminal conduct by a 
journalist; confidential information that is necessary to stop or 
prevent an act of terrorism, death or substantial bodily harm, a 
kidnapping, or an act that involves child pornography or the sexual 
exploitation of a child; or confidential information that would harm 
national security.

The qualified privilege and the exceptions for national security and 
law enforcement concerns reflect the serious and careful effort by 
Senators Specter and Schumer to take into account the perspectives of 
journalists on the one hand and law enforcement on the other. The 
product is a bill that strikes the right balance.

I am pleased that the managers' amendment includes language that I 
authored on who should be protected by the privilege. In the fast-
changing media world, the notion of who qualifies as a journalist is 
evolving quickly. Journalists are no longer just the reporters who work 
for newspapers, magazines or television or radio stations. It is 
increasingly common for Internet bloggers and citizen-journalists to 
report breaking news stories that shape our Nation's most important 
debates. However, not everyone with a laptop and an internet connection 
should be protected by the important privilege created by this bill.

The privilege will now apply to reporters who are regularly engaged 
in investigative journalism. It will protect reporters who are in a 
position to develop and rely on confidential sources for their stories, 
whether they report in the television, radio, print or online world.

Specifically, it will cover journalists who regularly: report on 
local, national or international events of public importance; do the 
things that constitute good investigative journalism, meaning 
conducting interviews, collecting information and making observations 
on the scene of an event, or collecting original documents and 
statements; and collect this information for the purpose of bringing it 
to the public's attention.

This definition, like the rest of the bill, protects the relationship 
between reporters and confidential sources, but ensures that Federal 
agencies are able to get the information they need to prevent harm to 
national security and advance urgent law enforcement investigations. In 
short, it strikes the right balance between journalistic integrity and 
the public's right to seek justice.

Forty-nine States and the District of Columbia give journalists at 
least a partial shield against compulsory disclosures. This bill fills 
the gap at the federal level and gives investigative journalists a 
qualified shield in federal court. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this 
legislation and urge my colleagues to support it.