# COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
## `9d247b97e4bf0ed3f7946bcaefeb9c77`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 8 October 2009`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I thank the Senator. I had the real pleasure and 
honor, along with Senator Brown, of being among the principal draftsmen 
of the public option in the HELP Committee. When I think back on the 
effort we put into it, and the plan we came up with, it is astonishing 
to me that it is now the public option that appears to be the most 
contentious part of the American health care debate right now, because 
the bill we passed out of the HELP Committee in July was very 
thoughtful. It includes a community health insurance option--a national 
plan, administered by the Secretary of the Department of Health and 
Human Services. It will be available in every State and territory. It 
would offer benefits that are as good as those available through the 
private insurance plans, or better. The Secretary would negotiate 
provider payment rates to encourage doctors and hospitals to 
participate. Americans who need financial help to participate in the 
public option would get it. And local advisory councils would assure 
that the public option was sensitive to local conditions and local 
needs.

To be clear, this plan includes no mandate for doctors to 
participate, no rate setting by the Secretary, no requirement that any 
American buy a public option policy, and absolutely no direct link to 
the Federal Treasury. Other than the initial capitalization, this plan 
would operate solely on premium revenue--a completely self-sufficient 
financial model. It would have absolutely no baseline advantage over 
private insurance companies. The HELP Committee got here by approving a 
number of amendments by our friend from North Carolina, Senator Burr, 
to make sure of this.

Because this version of the public option was so sensitive to these 
concerns from across the ideological spectrum, the House Blue Dogs, 
moderates in the House, used a number of our provisions in the House 
bill to gain moderate support. In fact, the community health insurance 
option makes so much sense that Republicans have had to resort to 
illogical arguments to justify their opposition.

For example, they argue that the government should not be in the 
business of providing health insurance, that it is a slippery slope to 
socialized medicine. Well, hello, government-sponsored health insurance 
serves nearly half of Americans--78 million Americans--who are enrolled 
in Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, VA, and they get benefits from the 
Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, and so forth. We don't hear 
our colleagues on the other side talking about ending Medicare, closing 
up the trust fund, throwing our parents and grandparents out to the 
tender mercies of the private insurance companies. We don't hear that. 
I have not heard one Republican say they want to deny our Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans all the Federal medical care they need when they 
come home. I don't see Republican Members of Congress opting out in 
droves or criticizing the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program.

Why? Because these programs work, because Americans rely on them, 
because they provide dignity and stability in the lives of millions of 
American families and they have not led to a government takeover of our 
entire health care system. Indeed, ironically, the very best program is 
probably the VA program where the level of government involvement is 
the highest, where they own the hospitals and where they employ the 
doctors.

Republicans have also been arguing that government involvement in the


private health insurance market will be uncompetitive and will push 
private companies out of business. We see the government competing 
competitively in a variety of markets in this country--private versus 
public universities, private versus government student loans, workers' 
compensation insurance, the Postal Service versus UPS and FedEx. The 
existence of public options in these markets has not swallowed up 
private industry. What it has done is broadened the market and enhanced 
the variety of competition consumers enjoy. Think how many people in 
America right now have a higher education because a State university 
was there as an affordable option, an alternative to private colleges.

Similarly, a public insurance option adds choice for consumers and 
adds competition in the market, and it gives private insurers a strong 
incentive to behave fairly and to keep their costs down. In fact, if 
one thinks about it, there is hardly an industry in this country where 
the big players are so far from being pushed out of the market. In 
fact, if you ask me, the for-profit health insurance industry has been 
doing the pushing--pushing the American people around--for far too 
long.

Let me give one example from my home State of Rhode Island. Two years 
ago, United Health Care of Rhode Island proposed to send $37 million in 
excess profits to its parent company, United Health Group, hundreds of 
miles away instead of investing that $37 million back into the system. 
That is $37 million in 1 year out of a State of only 1 million people 
in which this company only had a 16-percent market share. With a public 
option, that $37 million would have gone back into improving the health 
care infrastructure in Rhode Island, into lowering premiums, into 
increasing provider payments, into investing in our health information 
and chronic care sustainability projects and helping doctors buy 
electronic health records and supporting our Rhode Island Quality 
Institute. But no. And this after United had already sent $16.5 million 
out of our State in 2004, $13.4 million out of our State in 2005, and 
$17.1 million out of our State in 2006.

Competition is supposed to lower prices for consumers, create demand 
for a better product, and push bad actors out of the marketplace. I 
don't see that in the health insurance market. I see 10 States with the 
two largest health insurance companies controlling over 80 percent of 
the market. I see a 120-percent increase in premiums from 1999 to 2007, 
while wages only went up 29 percent. I see a 109-percent increase in 
administrative costs from 2000 to 2006--a 109-percent increase--as 
insurers increasingly game the system rather than competing on better 
quality of care, better health, and lower cost.

As I have traveled around Rhode Island, I have seen how these 
circumstances work out for individual Rhode Islanders.

David, a self-employed resident in Central Falls, described the 
astronomical rise in the cost of health insurance for him and his wife. 
Years ago, he paid $85 a month for his plan. Today, it is $19,000 for 
their annual health insurance. Despite the dramatic jump in price, the 
health insurance does not cover as much as it used to. David has been 
forced to drop dental coverage and increase the out-of-pocket expenses 
he and his wife pay on their plan.

He wrote to me:




 I'm almost afraid to get sick because today's health plans 


 have so many holes in them they can nickel and dime you to 


 death.


Charlotte is a self-employed consultant from Providence. She wrote to 
share the difficulties she has faced as health insurance became the 
single largest expense for her company. She buys one of the least 
expensive plans she can through a small business alliance, but the 
premium for her current coverage increased by 35.6 percent--more than a 
third--just this past year, it is covering fewer and fewer tests and 
procedures, and she has to pay more out of pocket for needed medical 
treatments. She wrote to me that we needed to move forward on health 
care reform because 'the cost of health care is pulling the plug on my 
livelihood.'

For these Rhode Islanders and for millions more, there has to be a 
better way. There has to be a new challenge in this marketplace, a new 
business model, a new entrant to change the landscape of competition. 
Instead of competing to lure the healthiest patients, plans should have 
to compete on quality. Instead of developing a better claims denial 
procedure, plans should have to develop a better customer service 
department. Instead of paying executives tens of millions of dollars 
per year, they should make sure working-class Americans can afford safe 
and secure health coverage.

Need I remind us that our health care system is teetering on the edge 
of collapse and the status quo is not sustainable. Over 80 million 
Americans were uninsured at some point during 2007 and 2008. As many as 
100,000 Americans are killed every year by unnecessary and preventable 
medical errors. Life expectancy, obesity rates, and infant mortality 
rates are embarrassing by most international measures. The annual cost 
of our system is closing in on $3 trillion and is expected soon to 
double. We spend more of our GDP on health care than any other 
industrialized country, double the European Union average. More 
American families are bankrupted by health care costs than any other 
cause. There is more health care than steel in Ford cars. There is more 
health care than coffee in Starbucks coffee. It is out of control.

We have two choices: We can derail and delay this debate until 
unpalatable solutions, such as throwing people off Medicare, 
drastically cutting coverage, or paying doctors much less, are our only 
remaining options or we can do what Americans have always done when 
faced with a tremendous challenge, and that is to innovate our way out.

Government is not the enemy in this undertaking. Americans, with a 
helping hand from their government, have done great things time and 
time again. We put a man on the Moon and an explorer on Mars. We built 
a Peace Corps and the Marine Corps. We virtually eliminated polio and 
smallpox. We built the National Institutes of Health and the Federal 
Highway System. We have mapped the human genome. Government helped 
then, and it can help now through an innovative public plan.


Let me make one last point. My Republican colleagues have argued that 
a public option would drown out private competition and amount to a 
government takeover. In many places from which they made that argument, 
the facts at home disprove that contention. Twenty-five States actually 
provide health insurance benefits through public plans. They actually 
provide health insurance benefits through public plans in their 
workers' compensation systems.

For example, Kentucky, represented so ably by our distinguished 
minority leader, is home to Kentucky Employers Mutual Insurance, a 
State-run public fund which has operated in the State since 1995 and 
now provides health insurance benefits to 24 percent of the workers' 
compensation market in a competitive market.

In Wyoming, the home State of the ranking member of the HELP 
Committee, Wyoming's Worker Safety and Compensation Division delivers 
all the health care in the workers' compensation system. They have a 
single-payer public plan. There has been concern expressed that a 
government plan will give terrible customer service. I doubt that the 
Wyoming plan would last very long if it gave terrible customer service.

In Arizona, so ably represented in this Chamber by Senators McCain 
and Kyl, since 1925 SCF Arizona has provided health insurance benefits 
through the workers' compensation system, and it now has a 56-percent 
market share in a competitive market environment. To those who have 
said you cannot have a government plan because it will necessarily 
crowd out private insurance by virtue of an unfair competitive 
advantage, Arizona belies that argument. It has been that way for 80 
years, since 1925.

To my knowledge, those who criticize the idea of a Federal public 
option for health insurance have not criticized the role--often a 
decades-old one--of public insurance plans in their own States' 
workers' compensation insurance markets.

We have in front of us an opportunity for a new day in the American 
health care system where affordable, quality health care is available 
for everyone; where doctors and hospitals are paid for value, not 
volume; where you cannot lose coverage because of an illness


or preexisting condition; where insurance company bureaucrats do not 
come between you and your doctor; where care is not rationed by your 
family's ability to pay; where every American gets the best health care 
the country's medical system has to offer.

I support the public option because I see that vision for the future, 
and I think a public option can get us there. I also see this lesson of 
the past: that an industry--the private insurance industry--that has 
put its own financial welfare in front of the physical and mental 
health of its customers for years, over and over again, cannot now be 
trusted on its own to lead us into that future, not without a push in 
the marketplace, not without the kind of push in the marketplace a 
public option will give.