# TRIBUTE TO JENNIFER DOAK
## `9d2503c56c5512f8d8920dfb329e5dbf`
`Mr. LATHAM — 14 September 2010`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize Jennifer Doak, an 
active-duty Specialist with the National Guard from Boone County, Iowa, 
and to express my appreciation for her dedication and commitment to her 
country.

The Boone News Republican is currently running a series of articles 
that honors one Boone County veteran every Tuesday from Memorial Day to 
Veterans Day. Jennifer Doak was recognized on Tuesday, June 8. Below is 
the article in its entirety:










Boone County Veterans: Jennifer Doak













(By Alexander Hutchins)




 Jennifer Doak, a specialist with the Iowa National Guard, 


 pursues her personal goals




 and serves her Nation as a current member of the National 


 Guard.



 Doak is from ''all over Iowa,'' having moved to different 


 locations around the state approximately every four years 


 with a brief period of residence in Kentucky. Moving around 


 so frequently made it difficult to form many friendships or 


 get to know her community well, but since she was little she 


 has wanted to serve in the military.



 ''You have to kind of love what you do,'' Doak said of her 


 decision to join the National Guard.



 Doak played sports in her childhood and was an avid reader, 


 but with her mother frequently relocating, she became a 


 fairly introverted child.



 She was influenced to join the National Guard partly due to 


 her father's service in the military during her childhood. 


 She joined the National Guard on Oct. 23, 2003 and continues 


 to serve today.



 Doak is an M-day soldier with the Guard, serving one 


 weekend a month and two weeks a year. She said her personal 


 goal for her service is to reach the rank of Command Sergeant 


 Major.



 When not serving her drill weekend, Doak is a full-time 


 student at the Des Moines Area Community College Boone 


 Campus. She also completed courses with Grantham University 


 Online while deployed overseas. She was recently hired by the 


 Boone County Commission for Veterans Affairs, working to 


 provide services to service men and women in Boone County.



 Doak was deployed to the LSA Anaconda base in Iraq from 


 June of 2006 to August of 2007. She worked as a 


 communications specialist and performed maintenance on 


 ''anything that plugged in.''



 When asked about how the current conflict in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan influences her perception of her vocation, Doak 


 was enthusiastic.



 ''It makes me want to work harder, to be better at [my 


 job],'' she said.



 Doak said she does not plan to become a full-time 


 Guardswoman, but she was thankful for the people she has met 


 and friendships she has made during her time in the guard. 


 She said she had no significant regrets from her time in the 


 military except for not being able to be home when loved ones 


 passed away.



 ''It's a repercussion of any job,'' she said.



 Doak said that she is more aware of things in the world 


 than she used to be, and her time in the Guard has helped her 


 recognize the value of everyday experiences.



 ''I've grown up quite quickly,'' Doak said. She said she is 


 more mature and conscious than she was in high school.



 In the time between Memorial Day and Veterans Day, Doak 


 encourages everyone to remember what military personnel and 


 veterans have done.



 ''I think Veterans Day and Memorial Day touch everyone in 


 some capacity,'' Doak said.



 Doak said that even if you do not like that soldiers are 


 deployed somewhere, it's important to thank them when the 


 time is right.



 ''Remember to thank somebody,'' she said.


I commend Jennifer Doak for her many years of loyalty and service to 
our great Nation. It is an immense honor to represent her in the United 
States Congress, and I wish her all the best in her future endeavors.
