---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `9d27f312d39bd485fc847ae4432fb8ea`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS — 16 September 2008`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, last week marked the seventh 
anniversary of the day our country was attacked by terrorists, 
resulting in the deaths of approximately 3,000 innocent people. Since 
that day and for the past 7 years, our Nation has devoted itself to 
winning the global war on terrorism.

It is astonishing how the commitment of our soldiers, airmen, 
sailors, and marines has inspired the Afghan and Iraqi people to build 
their own political framework, improve their security and 
infrastructure, and promote human rights, freedom, and democracy in 
their respective countries. I am proud to say that our commitment to 
and investment in the global war on terrorism is now bearing fruits 
that are leading to a safer and more democratic world.

All of our accomplishments in this area start with our servicemembers 
and their families who every day face the challenges, sacrifices, and 
dangers inherent in the profession of arms. Congress is entrusted with 
providing the necessary resources, policies, and programs for our 
servicemembers and military departments in order to ensure their 
success.

This year's National Defense Authorization Act serves as the vehicle 
to do just that and provides the resources and policies to carry out 
the missions we ask of our military.

Specifically, the bill provides the following:

An increase of 7,000 soldiers, 5,000 marines, and 3,371 full-time 
personnel for the Army National Guard and Army Reserve over the 2008 
force structure levels; a 3.9-percent pay raise for all military 
personnel; a total of $125 billion for military personnel to improve 
allowances, bonuses, permanent change of station moves, and death 
benefits; reauthorization of over 25 types of bonuses and special pay 
to promote enlistment and continued military service; more rigorous 
oversight procedures for military housing privatization projects; and a 
report to Congress on the implementation of the Yellow Ribbon 
Reintegration Program.

I also have several amendments to the bill, all of which I understand 
will be included in a manager's package. I wish to discuss these 
amendments very briefly.

First, last year, I worked with many of my colleagues to include a 
provision in the National Defense Authorization bill allowing for 
members of the Guard and Reserve who deploy in support of a contingency 
operation to receive their retired pay early based on how much time 
they deploy. This year, Senator Kerry and I, along with 15 other 
Senators, have offered an amendment that would make this provision 
retroactive to include any duty performed after September 11, 2001.

This amendment recognizes a significant sacrifice that members of the 
Guard and Reserve and their families have made since 9/11 in answering 
the call of duty. It is only right that their duty and support of the 
global war on terrorism since September 11 be recognized and included 
when considering when they should receive retired pay. It is my hope we 
can keep this provision in conference and included in the final version 
of the bill.

Also for the Guard and Reserve, I have offered an amendment, 
cosponsored by my colleague Mark Pryor from Arkansas, which would 
provide 180 days of transitional health care for members leaving active 
duty who agree to affiliate with the Guard and Reserve. An identical 
provision was sponsored and included in the House bill by my good 
friend Congressman Sanford Bishop from Georgia. This amendment provides 
a powerful incentive for members leaving active duty to join the Guard 
and Reserve and could result in several thousand more people entering 
the Guard and Reserve each and every year.

I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record a letter of 
support for this amendment from the Reserve Officers Association.