# A NEW CONGRESS
## `9d2cc7262d78146fbf74a1dcf921b305`
`Mr. REID â€” 4 January 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I appreciate everyone's courtesy. This is 
the first experience of mine to go through these procedures. It wasn't 
as smooth as clockwork, but with staff help it was smooth enough. So I 
very much appreciate everyone's cooperation as we look forward to this 
new Congress.




 The future lies with those wise political leaders who 


 realize that the great public is interested more in 


 Government than in politics.


Franklin Roosevelt, 1940.

I have chosen this line to open this new session of the Senate 
because the wisdom it imparts is as relevant today as it was 67 years 
ago.




 The future lies with those wise political leaders who 


 realize that the great public is interested more in 


 Government than in politics.


The American people are expecting positive results from this 110th 
Congress, not more partisan rancor. We stand today at the cusp of a new 
Congress, ready to write a new chapter in our country's great future. 
It is a time of hope and promise for our Nation. The elections are 
over, and the next Senate campaigns have yet to begin.

Today we are not candidates; we are U.S. Senators. We 100 are from 
different States, we 100 represent different people, we 100 represent 
different political parties, but we share the same mission: keeping our 
country safe and providing a Government that allows people to enjoy the 
fruits and prosperity and, of course, our economic freedom.

Last November, the voters sent us a message. They sent this message 
to Democrats and they sent this message to Republicans: The voters are 
upset with Congress and the partisan gridlock. The voters want a 
Government that focuses on their needs. The voters want change. 
Together, Democrats and Republicans must deliver that change.

No longer can we waste time here in the Capitol while families in 
America struggle to get ahead. No longer can we here in the Capitol 
afford to pass the problems of today to Congresses of tomorrow. Those 
problems, for example, are from keeping families safe to raising the 
minimum wage to instituting new ethical reforms. We can and we must get 
to work.

As the new Congress begins, the challenges facing America are 
complex. They range from a contracted war in Iraq to a health care 
crisis right here at home, from a middle class that is squeezed to an 
energy policy that is warming our globe, from a higher education system 
that has exploded in costs to jobs where benefits have all but 
disappeared. We Senators can make a difference in each of these areas 
if we remember we are here to fight for our country, not with each 
other.

The majority, my party, holds a very slim margin--51 to 49. Some may 
look at this as a composition for gridlock, a recipe for gridlock, but 
I see this as a unique opportunity. I guarantee everyone in this 
Chamber that the American people are hoping it is a unique 
opportunity--an opportunity for Democrats, an opportunity for 
Republicans--to debate our differences and seek common ground. We must 
turn the page on partisanship and usher in a new era of bipartisan 
progress. How can we achieve progress? By doing things differently than 
they have been done in recent years.

One, we must--I repeat again and again--work together.

Second, we are going to have to work here in Washington, in the 
Senate, longer hours. Factory workers, shopkeepers in America's malls, 
schoolteachers, police officers, miners, welders, and business men and 
women work at least 5 days a week. Shouldn't we here in Washington, 
where we do our business, in this laboratory we call the Senate, do the 
same?

Three, we will achieve progress by working on an agenda that reflects 
not the needs of Democrats, not the needs


of Republicans, but the needs of the people of this great country.

Today Democrats may be in charge of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, but we in the Senate are committed to bipartisanship. 
We found that a one-party town simply doesn't work. We know from 
experience that majorities come and they go. Majorities are very 
fragile, and majorities must work with minorities to make that lasting 
change.

In this body, the U.S. Senate, nothing can be accomplished unless we 
reach across the aisle--not one way but both ways. It is because when 
our Founding Fathers created the Senate 219 years ago, they carved out 
a special place for the minority. See, the Framers of this Constitution 
knew that majorities can always take care of themselves. Majorities 
didn't need help as defined in the Constitution. But this Constitution 
takes care of minorities because they can't always take care of 
themselves. The Founding Fathers created an institution that protects 
this minority, and we will respect our Constitution and those 
protections.

I have talked with Senator Mitch McConnell, the senior Senator from 
the great State of Kentucky. He is the minority leader. He is my 
friend. In the months and years that go forward, we will become even 
closer because he has learned, and I have learned, through adversity we 
grow together. I am committed to working with him, and I know he is 
committed to working with me. We as Democrats are committed to working 
with Republicans and Republicans are committed to working with us.


Does this mean there are going to be no bumps in the road? Of course 
there will be bumps in the road. We are in the Senate. The Founding 
Fathers wanted bumps in the road.

This morning, at 9 o'clock in the Old Senate Chamber, we held a rare 
joint caucus. It was an opportunity for us to look across the rows at 
each other and understand that the Senate is a place where we have to 
work in a bipartisan fashion.

We in the majority, we Democrats, are committed to working with our 
President, President Bush. He has pledged to work with Democrats. He 
has pledged to me personally that he would work to make progress.

We are not going to talk about what went on for the past 6-plus 
years. What I have discussed with the President, as late as last night, 
is what we are going to do for the next 22 months together. There are 
22 months left in this Presidential term. The President, I know, wants 
to accomplish things. I want to accomplish things. He has to work with 
us and we have to work with him or jointly we do nothing to help our 
country.

As I have said, we are going to work longer hours, we are going to 
work full weeks, we are going to have votes on Mondays and Fridays. 
None of us are happy because all but 10 Senators here participated in 
the last Congress, the so-called do-nothing Congress. We are not proud 
of that fact. We spent less time working than any Congress in modern 
history. Some days the sessions lasted a matter of minutes. In this 
Congress, legislative days will be real workdays.

The extra days will help our committees. The foundation of this 
institution, the Senate, is the committee system. It has worked from 
the beginning of our great Republic, but it hasn't worked so well 
lately. But it now is going to have an opportunity to work better. Our 
committees will have the time they need to put their expertise to use.

The best legislation with the broadest possible support always comes 
from our committees. In the Senate, we have chairmen and ranking 
members with years of experience: Ted Kennedy and Mike Enzi on the HELP 
Committee; Max Baucus and Chuck Grassley on the Finance Committee; Joe 
Biden and Dick Lugar on the Foreign Relations Committee; Carl Levin and 
John McCain on the Armed Services Committee; Patrick Leahy and Arlen 
Specter on the Judiciary Committee. And on and on. These names speak of 
their broad experience and their ability to get things done for our 
country, but it must come through the committee process.

As all my Democrats know, when I assumed the job as Democratic 
leader, I told every ranking member that those committees had to 
function and I was going to let them function, and I have done that for 
2 years. Now there is going to be more time for them to produce 
legislation. They are no longer ranking members, they are Chairs, but 
they cannot succeed unless they work with their ranking members.

Our committees will have the time to do a number of tasks, but the 
one item they need to do is conduct strong oversight. This is not a 
negative term. Oversight is good. It is important to find out what 
Federal agencies are doing, to listen to what the people who work there 
have to say. Congressional oversight is a responsibility that has been 
abdicated in recent years. Oversight is important for our country, not 
so we can point fingers or cast blame, but answer difficult questions 
and find lasting solutions to the enormous challenges we have. Everyone 
focuses on Iraq--of course, that is a very difficult problem--but there 
are many other problems that face this great country. The war in Iraq 
will cast a long shadow over the Senate's work this year. No issue in 
our country is more important than finding an end to that war. We will 
be listening very closely to President Bush when he comes forward with 
his plan next week. The President's new plan must ensure that Iraq 
takes responsibility for its own future and remove our troops from this 
civil war. Completing the mission in Iraq is the President's job and we 
will do everything to assist the Commander in Chief to ensure his 
responsibilities.


Finally, the Senate will achieve progress for our Nation by ensuring 
the Senate calendar reflects America's needs. In the weeks ahead, I 
look forward to receiving input from the minority. This afternoon, as 
is the tradition in the Senate, I will present an overview of the 
Democrats' legislative agenda, bills S. 1 through S. 10. Following the 
tradition of the Senate, my friend, the distinguished minority leader, 
Senator McConnell, will offer bills S. 11 through S. 20 whenever he 
feels it appropriate.

In the first 10 bills we will introduce this afternoon, and in our 
ongoing oversight of the war in Iraq, we intend to address these 
priorities, basically three of them: one, providing real security; two, 
restoring transparency, accountability, and responsibility in the 
United States Government; and three, helping working Americans get 
ahead by boosting wages and cutting costs in health care, education, 
and energy.

We begin with S. 1, our plan to change the way Washington works. It 
was late 2005 when scandals involving lobbyists and lawmakers shocked 
the very core of this Nation. Despite the Senate's best attempts on a 
bipartisan basis, here we are 2 years later and still no reform of 
ethics, lobbying, and earmarks. The American people deserve better. 
That is why as our first order of business we will seek to give 
Americans the open and accountable government they deserve. We will 
start Monday with a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Reid and McConnell. 
I think that is a pretty good start. We will start with the ethics bill 
that passed the Senate last year. Now, had that bill passed, which it 
didn't, it would have been the most significant reform since Watergate 
in lobbying and ethics reform. It didn't pass. Some people minimized 
our starting point. I maximize our starting point. This bill included 
important provisions in many areas, but it was not allowed to proceed 
because of what took place on the other side of the Capitol. This year, 
we will improve that legislation and make additional reforms.

This legislation will include reforms to slow the revolving door 
between Government jobs and lucrative employment with special 
interests. It will eliminate gifts paid for by lobbyists and interests 
that hire lobbyists. It will limit privately funded travel such as that 
of the notorious golf junkets to Scotland. It will increase disclosure 
requirements so the public will be better informed about the activities 
of lobbyists. And it will increase penalties for those who seek to 
break the rules. I lay and spread across this Record how grateful I am 
that the distinguished minority leader has agreed to cosponsor this 
legislation. I think it sends the right message to America.

With these reforms, which I am confident will pass, we will help 
ensure America has a government that is good and honest as the people 
it serves.

Mr. President, I send S. 1 to the desk and ask for its appropriate 
referral.


The bill is at the desk. I am told that the bill is at the desk and we 
choose not to rule XIV it at this stage.