# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `9d2dfcecfce87f13350b33b0f2086181`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. I thank the ranking member, and I appreciate 
you bringing up the fact that our friends on the majority are, again, 
talking about the bipartisan efforts that have been made with the Armed 
Services Committee, all of the extensive negotiations that have taken 
place. I serve on the Armed Services Committee. I am the ranking 
member, as Ms. Ros-


Lehtinen just said. There has been absolutely no negotiation with any 
member of the minority side of the House Armed Services Committee.

You know, it sounds like a great thing to support when you look at 
the bill, at least the title of the bill, but when you start looking at 
it, reading it, listening to the people who it actually is going to 
affect, like General David Petraeus who I met at CENTCOM last week and 
had an opportunity to talk to him about these specific issues, he said 
it is going to tie their hands, not allow us to do what we need to do 
and the military needs to do to train and assist in this very important 
issue.

Nobody, I think, has any qualms or quarrels with the majority side 
saying this is something that needs to be done. The issue is a 
jurisdictional problem with regards to whether State or DOD has input 
or actually controls what goes on in this program.

Look, I've been to Pakistan and Afghanistan three times in the last 
year. I understand what's going on there. I know how hard the 
Pakistanis are fighting to control what's going on in their country. We 
need to do what we can do to help with the counterinsurgency problem. 
But it's my understanding that the President does not support this 
particular piece of legislation and, as has already been said on the 
floor today, that Senator Kerry does not support this particular piece 
of legislation.

So those are the facts. Others may not want to necessarily address 
those facts and say that they are, in fact, true, but they are. And I 
heard a Member on the floor of the House yesterday trying desperately 
to get Members to understand and believe that Foreign Service members, 
as a whole, are actually on the front lines.

Look, the State Department cannot compel any State Department 
employee to go into a combat zone. This is a DOD issue. This is a 
counterinsurgency issue. It needs to be in the basket, if you will, of 
the Department of Defense. The majority's tendency to use diplomacy for 
every single thing should not result in a career State Department 
bureaucrat running a military counterinsurgency operation. It just 
shouldn't be so.

Look, as I said, they can't legally compel their people to go into a 
combat zone, but what they do is they use money for programs to fly 
Muslim people from the United States of America to Sweden to talk about 
issues in regards to Islamic outreach, which I have serious concerns 
with that particular program, but that's the State Department and 
that's what they want to do. I think they probably would have thought 
that the diplomatic efforts that Pakistan made in the Swat Valley was 
the thing that we should have done. It was not something that should 
have been done, and we know the Taliban broke the truce real quickly 
after that was done.

But look, the Department of State should not be taking the lead in 
this vital issue. It should be the Department of Defense. And I think 
that, ultimately, Members of this body on both sides of the aisle 
understand that.

So I urge a defeat of this flawed particular piece of legislation.