---
---

# FIRST LIEUTENANT NOAH HARRIS ELLIJAY POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `9d2e74e5b1d1392bf0c2c418dc9a19ca`
`Mr. DUNCAN — 24 September 2008`

---


Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I have a statement that I wish to place 
into the Record on behalf of Ranking Member Davis and myself in support 
of this legislation.

Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I rise today in strong support of this bill designating the facility 
of the United States' Postal Service located at 801 Industrial 
Boulevard in Ellijay, Georgia, as the ''First Lieutenant Noah Harris 
Ellijay Post Office Building.''

On June 17, 2005 First Lieutenant Noah Harris was conducting a 
mounted patrol in Baquba, Iraq, when enemy forces fired rocket-
propelled grenades at his armored Humvee. Noah Harris died from the 
injuries on June 18, one week before his 24th birthday.

By all accounts, Noah Harris was a remarkable person.

While attending Gilmer High School in Ellijay Georgia, Harris was the 
captain of the football team, a state wrestling champion, and Honor Bar 
Thespian in the theater club.

After graduating high school in 1999, Harris attended the University 
of Georgia's Terry College of Business, where he continued his 
involvement in the community and athletics. He was the captain of the 
cheerleading squad, a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, and a 
volunteer for Watch Dawgs, an organization that works to prevent 
alcohol related accidents among students.

In 2001, Harris was one of the first participants in the Leonard 
Leadership Scholars Program, a leadership development program for 
undergraduates by the Terry College Institute for Leadership 
Advancement. It was during that time, shortly after the September 11 
terrorist attacks, that Harris first considered serving our country 
through military service and joined the ROTC.

After graduation, Harris was commissioned as a second lieutenant and 
stationed at Fort Benning. To keep up morale among his soldiers' Harris 
began a pen pal program with family and friends. He also started 
''Operation Noah's Dream'' by encouraging members of his community to 
send him beanie babies, which he passed out to children in Iraq.

He was truly a person that strove to make a difference at home and 
Iraq. Tragically his life was cut short but his memory will live on and 
he will be greatly missed.

With gratitude for his sacrifice to his country, I ask all members to 
join me in support of HR 6847, to name the 801 Industrial Boulevard 
Post Office in Ellijay, Georgia in his honor.

At this time, I yield the balance of our time to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Deal).