# None
## `9d3e376012c1d6af7832363e205581c9`
`Mr. DORGAN — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, today has been a fairly significant day 
here in the Congress. General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have 
flown back to the United States from the country of Iraq, and they have 
reported to both the Armed Services Committee and also the Foreign 
Affairs Committee. I have not had a chance to listen to their 
testimony--I don't serve on either of those committees--but I know the 
news will carry the testimony, and I


am sure I will see portions of it and will certainly read their 
testimony tomorrow morning, but I wanted to make this point.

While General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have come here today 
and I am sure have talked about the progress that results from the 
surge--although there has been a substantial amount of violence, and 
tragically, I believe 11 U.S. soldiers have lost their lives in Iraq 
just in the last few days--I think there is no question that the extra 
soldiers, the additional 30,000 or 40,000 soldiers they took to Baghdad 
and to the streets of Iraq, dampened down the violence some. Yet there 
is so much discussion about Iraq and so little discussion about 
something else that matters a great deal to our lives.

This is the 2,400th day since 9/11, and 2,400 days later, Osama bin 
Laden is still at large, the same Osama bin Laden who boasted the day 
after 9/11--a day when thousands of innocent Americans were killed--
Osama bin Laden boasted about having engineered the murders of these 
Americans. Two thousand four hundred days later, he is not only at 
large, but he is reconstituting the leadership and the al-Qaida force, 
including building training camps to train additional terrorists.

Now, Mr. President, are some moments in history where I just remember 
where I was. I remember where I was as a very young boy when John F. 
Kennedy died. I remember the day. I remember the day astronauts walked 
on the moon. And I remember 9/11 very clearly. And it occurred to me on 
9/11 that surely our country bring those who were responsible to 
account. When thousands of Americans were murdered and al-Qaida and its 
leader, Osama bin Laden, boasted about having engineered that murder, 
it occurred to me that Osama bin Laden is not long for this world, or 
at least Osama bin Laden will certainly be brought to justice and get 
his due rewards for murdering so many Americans. Yet, 2,400 days later, 
that has not happened. Now, one might ask the question: Why? And does 
it have to do with the detour into Iraq?

I want to point out that in July of last year, the last time a 
National Intelligence Estimate was given to us by all of the combined 
intelligence services in our Government, here is what they said:




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland.


Let me read that again. That is the assessment of our National 
Intelligence Estimate in our country, the official assessment.




 Al-Qaida is and will remain the most serious terrorist 


 threat to the homeland. We assess the group has protected or 


 regenerated key elements of its homeland attack capability, 


 including a safe haven in the Pakistan Federally Administered 


 Tribal Areas, operational lieutenants, and its top 


 leadership.


Al-Qaida is the most serious threat to us, No. 1. No. 2, it has 
regrouped and regenerated key elements of its attack capability. No. 3, 
it is in a safe haven in Pakistan.

Now, who would have guessed that 2,400 days after our country was 
attacked, an attack that Osama bin Laden boasted about having 
engineered, that there would be 1 square inch of ground on this planet 
that would be called a safe haven for someone who murdered over 3,000 
Americans? Who would have believed that to be the case? Not me. Almost 
certainly I would have thought he would have been brought to justice.

Here is an October 3 story from last year by Griff Witte of the 
Washington Post. It quotes top military officials in Pakistan talking 
about al-Qaida.




 ''They've had a chance to regroup and reorganize,'' said a 


 Western military official in Pakistan. ''They're well 


 equipped. They're clearly getting training from somewhere. 


 And they're using more advanced tactics.''


This is from CIA Director Hayden, a week ago, on ''Meet the Press'':




 It is very clear to us that al-Qaida has been able, over 


 the past 18 months or so, to establish a safe haven along the 


 Afghanistan-Pakistan border area that they have not enjoyed 


 before; that they are bringing operatives into that region 


 for training.


Now, I have flown over that Afghan-Pakistan area. I have been in an 
airplane at 20,000 feet and looked down. I understand there is no 
boundary. You don't know where Afghan ends and Pakistan begins. I 
understand it is a tough area, tribally controlled areas. But what I 
don't understand is how, 2,400 days later, we are told by our top 
intelligence officials that the greatest threat to our homeland here in 
America is al-Qaida and its leadership--the greatest threat to our 
homeland is al-Qaida and its leadership--and they are in a safe haven, 
quote-unquote. There shouldn't be 1 acre of ground on this planet that 
is safe for those who murdered Americans on 9/11.

So what happened? What has caused this to happen? Well, this country 
took a detour. President Bush told the American people and Secretary of 
State Colin Powell in a presentation to the world and the United 
Nations told us about the alleged threat posed by the country of 
Iraq. He made the case for a military attack against the country of 
Iraq. They made the case that Saddam Hussein was a bad guy. They got no 
argument about that. Saddam Hussein was in many ways a brutal dictator. 
There were football-field-size graves that were unearthed in Iraq with 
thousands of people who had been murdered by Saddam Hussein. So there 
is no argument about Saddam Hussein.


The fact is, there are a number of bad leaders in this world. That 
doesn't mean we go invade their country.

After 9/11 the case was made that Iraq was a threat to the United 
States of America. They said Iraq was trying to get yellowcake from 
Niger and build a nuclear capabilities; Iraq was buying aluminum tubes 
for the purpose of reconstituting its nuclear capabilities; Iraq has 
mobile chemical weapons laboratories to produce weapons of mass 
destruction, which threatened this country.

That is all pretty ominous. Colin Powell, at the request of President 
Bush, showed all the evidence to the world. Then, of course, in the 
years since discovered that evidence was false. The yellowcake from 
Niger was from a forged document. Yet it purported to tell the world 
that Saddam Hussein was trying to reconstitute his nuclear capability 
by buying yellowcake from Niger--a forged document. No one has ever 
described to us where that forgery came from.

The aluminum tubes, Condoleezza Rice, Stephen Hadley, and others sat 
idly by while in their offices they received reports from other parts 
of our Government saying those aluminum tubes were not for a 
reconstitution of nuclear capability. That information was withheld 
from Congress and the American people.

Mobile chemical weapons laboratories? That came from a man named 
Curveball; a man named Curveball. Curveball was an informant who was 
being held by the Germans. Curveball used to be a taxicab driver in 
Baghdad, largely considered a drunk and a fabricator by the German 
authorities. This country, this administration, this President, and 
this Secretary of State used Curveball as an example and a source--a 
single source, mind you--to describe mobile chemical weapons 
laboratories that existed in Iraq and therefore threatened this 
country.

It turns out it was not true. It turns out that thin thread, one 
person held by German authorities--again, considered to be a drunk and 
a fabricator, a former taxicab driver from Baghdad--was cited as a 
source, just an unidentified source to the entire world, to support the 
contention that what Saddam Hussein was doing in Iraq threatened this 
country.

So the President, Condoleezza Rice, Colin Powell, Stephen Hadley, and 
especially, of course, the neocons--Vice President Cheney, Douglas 
Feith--all of them. They all got what they wanted. This country went 
into a detour, and the detour was right into the middle of Iraq. It was 
going to be a very simple operation, last only a very short amount of 
time. The fact is, we have been there now fighting in Iraq longer than 
the Second World War lasted, and we have reports today by the top 
general in Iraq, General Petraeus, a U.S. general, and by the U.S. 
Ambassador, Ambassador Crocker--both good Americans--who come to us to 
describe progress, progress in Iraq.

I don't know how progress is being measured. I hope we have a lot of 
progress. I hope we have enough progress so we can begin withdrawing 
American troops from Iraq.

But the fact is, Saddam Hussein is dead. He was executed. The Iraqi 
people had the ability to write a new constitution and then vote for 
it. They had the ability to vote for a new government, which they have. 
And they had the ability to receive two-thirds of a trillion dollars 
from the American taxpayers, which we have spent in Iraq


and a smaller amount in Afghanistan. We have spent $16 billion of that 
training military and police capability for able-bodied Iraqis. Four 
hundred thousand able-bodied Iraqis have been trained for military and 
police work.

The question remains now, in my judgment, if 400,000 Iraqis who have 
been trained by using $16 billion of our money, and been trained by our 
people, if they don't have the will to provide the security in the 
country of Iraq that is their country, not ours, then we can't stay 
there 2 years or 4 years or 20 years or 100 years, as some have 
suggested. We must begin to bring troops home and say to the Iraqis: 
This is your country, not ours. This is your responsibility, not ours. 
You have a new government. We spent the money to train able-bodied 
Iraqis. Now you have to have the will to take back your country.

My point about Iraq, however, is that we will not only have been 
detoured in terms of two-thirds of a trillion dollars-plus, we have 
been detoured here and bogged down in a long-term civil strife in Iraq 
that has been deadly for this country and deadly for the Iraqis at a 
time in which the greatest threat to America and greatest continuing 
threat to our homeland comes from al-Qaida. Don't take that from me. 
Take that from the top military experts in our Government.

If that in fact is the top threat to our homeland, why, 2,400 days 
after 9/11, is Osama bin Laden in a safe haven? Why is there a safe 
haven anywhere on Earth for Osama bin Laden? That ought to be the 
question that is asked today. That ought to be the question that is 
answered for the American people.

I think all of us understand that the terrorist threat exists. It 
remains, and likely will remain for some time, but we didn't eliminate 
the terrorist threat and didn't address the terrorist threat by sending 
soldiers to Iraq. The purpose of sending soldiers to Iraq was to 
respond to what we now know to have been largely untrue, the threat 
that Iraq represented a threat to our country. But we do know now, as a 
result of our National Intelligence Estimate, that Osama bin Laden is a 
threat to our country. We knew that on 9/11. We knew that on the day he 
killed 3,000-plus innocent Americans. Everybody knows that. You don't 
need some intoxicated former taxicab driver from Baghdad to tell us 
that. We know Osama bin Laden is a threat. We now know that 6 years 
after he engineered the 9/11 attack that our intelligence estimate says 
he or his al-Qaida organization is the most serious terrorist threat to 
our homeland.


Were there any hearings today on Capitol Hill asking questions of the 
people who are supposed to be doing this, What kind of progress are you 
making? Are you really going after him? Is this job No. 1? Or is all 
the spotlight on the same spot, that is Iraq, while Osama bin Laden 
over here in northern Pakistan is rebuilding training camps, recruiting 
new terrorists, and reconstituting his al-Qaida leadership to once 
again remain the most serious threat to this country's homeland?

My only point is there is nothing Republican or Democrat or 
conservative or liberal about any of this. This is all about common 
sense. What is the greatest threat to this country? The National 
Intelligence Estimate says it is the al-Qaida leadership. So what are 
we doing about that? Is there any progress?

Were there any hearings today asking whether there is progress? Were 
there any hearings asking whether we are bringing Osama bin Laden to 
justice, calling in officials who ought to be working on this? It seems 
to me, after 2,400 days the American people have a right to expect some 
answers.

Again, I think it is good that we have hearings today. We will no 
doubt read about the hearings, the testimony of General Petraeus who, 
by all accounts, is a wonderful American soldier. I met Ambassador 
Crocker when he was Ambassador in Afghanistan. He is a good American 
diplomat. We will no doubt hear a lot of discussion about what they 
said today.

All the talk today is about Iraq. That is a very important subject. 
But I assume what will not be discussed today is anything about the 
most serious terrorist threat to our homeland, and that is the person 
and the leadership and the organization that engineered the attack that 
murdered thousands of innocent Americans on 9/11. I hope those hearings 
are held soon. I hope this administration gives us a report from time 
to time on what we can expect.

Will there be another 2,400 days? Another national intelligence 
report telling us that the person who engineered the 9/11 attack is in 
a safe or secure--by the way, that word has been used as well--safe 
haven or secure haven? There ought not be anyplace safe or secure on 
this Earth for those who engineered the 9/11 attack, but it certainly 
has been safe and secure for 2,400 days.

My hope is we will not be on the floor of this Senate talking about 
another 2,400 days. We should be focusing on bringing to justice those 
who perpetrated the 9/11 attack. That goal, in my judgment, has taken a 
back seat to the detour that took us to Iraq all these many years, and 
I hope that will change soon.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.