---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE 186TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF GREECE AND  CELEBRATING GREEK AND AMERICAN DEMOCRACY
## `9d3fa9a0c44ab17fe288bd9699c5ed49`
`Mr. POE — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. POE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I want to encourage all of my colleagues to support H. Res. 228, 
recognizing the 186th anniversary of the independence of Greece, 
celebrating Greek and American democracy and recognizing Greece as a 
very staunch ally and friend of our United States.

Greece was the birthplace of the principles of democracy on which our 
Nation was founded. Our Founders studied Greek culture and Greek 
politics, and their influence is still with us today. Over the 
centuries, Greece has demonstrated its commitment to what it and our 
Nation prize among our highest ideals, and that word is ''liberty,'' 
''eleftheria'' to the Greek people.

Indeed, many of our Nation's respective ideas are shared and, 
therefore, our relationship holds a special significance. Both the 
United States and Greece share much in common. Both are outward-looking 
trading nations that have enriched the world through commercial and 
cultural exchanges.

Over the decades the U.S.-Greek relationship has developed quite 
dynamically, bolstered by common ideas and cooperation. Moreover, the 
Greek people have strived to protect freedom and democracy, allying 
itself with the United States in every major conflict of the 20th 
century, notably sacrificing for and contributing to the victory of the 
Allied forces over the Axis powers during World War II.

Today, our common destinies are threatened by other enemies who scorn 
our commitment to freedom, eleftheria, and aggression from Islamic 
extremism looms large and threatens western civilization that was born 
in that country of Greece. We are grateful that the Greek people have 
stood against this aggression throughout the years.

Indeed, Greece should be praised for its contributions in the global 
war on terror. In the war in Iraq, Greece has been responsive to U.S. 
requests for access to its air space and in fueling U.S. ships that 
supply cargo ships headed to Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to further cooperation between our two 
nations and expanding the friendship that exists between Greek and 
American people. I therefore ask my colleagues to join me in 
congratulating the nation of Greece on the 186th anniversary of its 
independence and to express their


acknowledgment of the great friendship that exists between our two 
countries.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.