---
---

# HIGHEST DEBT IN HISTORY
## `9d41bb30e93b057986e454108cd685a3`
`Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ — 20 June 2007`

---


Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. We need some more bipartisanship. And the Six 
in 06 agenda, the Medicare legislation to ensure that we can negotiate 
for lower drug prices, the repeal of the $14 billion in subsidies, the 
passage of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, the minimum wage, those 
bills had an average of 65 Republican votes. We are glad to have the 
rank and file Members who clearly were stymied and strangled by their 
leadership in the majority who are willing to do the right thing and 
come along with us.

I wish we could see more of that bipartisanship and wide open eyes on 
the war in Iraq because we still have a bunch of lemmings who continue 
to just be willing to walk off the plank and not ask any questions and 
continue the same mantra. It is really startling.

The bills that we put out on this floor to establish a timeline and 
to establish benchmarks and to ensure that we can begin to turn this 
conflict over to the Iraq government, maybe we got two Republican votes 
on those bills. And one we got one Republican vote on it.

You know, over the weekend, because we have been waiting, and they 
all say wait until September. There are 14 who went to the White House 
and said to the President, you have until September. We are going to 
hang with you, but in September we better see some results or else.

Over the weekend, in my papers we saw commentary from General 
Petraeus who said, you know, it is not looking like we are going to be 
able to do any significant draw down or any draw down of troops in 
September. In fact, we may need to be in Iraq for 10 years. Ten years.

Mr. Speaker, my children will be adults in 10 years. My oldest kids 
are 8. That means we will have spent virtually because what we are 
going on, 6 years in Iraq now, that means we will have spent my 
children's entire life in Iraq. Can you imagine. Their entire childhood 
twisted and mired in another country's conflict that we created for no 
good reason or at least for a reason that wasn't accurate with an 
administration who can't admit when they are wrong. There is no 
bipartisanship there, and let's just make that clear.

When, God forbid, when we are still twisted in this war in Iraq next 
year, we will do our best that we vote to bring those troops home and 
establish those benchmarks and some accountability. But if we don't 
have the votes to override a veto with our Republican colleagues, we 
will still be there next year, and that is what is going to decide the 
2008 election.

It is not that I hope that happens because I don't. I want to make 
sure that the troops come home and are reunited with their family, but 
we will have a Democratic President at that point because the American 
people are done. Stick a fork in them, done.