# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9d4bfb74a1db69983e29048f20d0bbc3`
`Mrs. GILLIBRAND — 14 February 2007`

---


Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Skelton for yielding. 
It has been an honor to serve on his committee.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my strong support for this 
resolution. Last November the voters in upstate New York spoke loudly 
and clearly in demanding a change in direction in Iraq, and I will cast 
my vote in favor of this resolution to fulfill my duty to represent 
their will.

As a freshman Member of this new Congress, I can think of no higher 
responsibility than to debate the merits of the President's plan to 
escalate American involvement in this war in Iraq. And I am pleased to 
see that every Member of Congress has been given 5 minutes to voice 
their view and to speak on this measure.

Today's debate is not about what is best for Democrats or best for 
Republicans. It is about what is best for our troops, for our national 
security, and for all Americans, as it should be. I believe the 
sentiments will be reflected in the bipartisan support this resolution 
will ultimately receive.

As I have traveled throughout my district doing town hall meetings 
and ''Congress on Your Corner'' to invite comments from my constituents 
and listen to their issues, I hear a consistent message. People say to 
me, we need a new direction in Iraq. We need a plan for success. We 
need to make sure we bring stability to the region; and when will our 
troops come home? All of these issues I couldn't agree with more 
strongly. Unfortunately, the President's plan is not a change in 
direction. It is, rather, more of the same.

As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have had the 
unique opportunity to question both Secretary Gates and General Pace 
and to listen to their testimony on this proposed escalation. At no 
point has anyone from the administration been able to articulate to me 
clearly that this is a strategy that will effectively undermine 
terrorism, promote lasting stability, and be successful in redeploying 
our troops. What is so clear to so many of our military advisers, 
former and current military generals, and a majority of this body and 
the American public at large does not seem to be shared by this 
administration, that the answers in sustaining peace in Iraq lie in the 
political, diplomatic, and economic solutions, not in the military 
ones.

In our hearings I have worked hard to bring to light whether the 
President has a plan for Iraqi oil revenues and reconstruction 
contracts to create progress in the economic and political arenas. Both 
Secretary Gates and General Pace testified that the President's current 
plan has no chance of success unless there is significant progress in 
both of these arenas. I call upon the administration to produce a real 
plan to ensure each of the sectarian groups receives a stake in the oil 
revenues and a plan for oversight and accountability to reduce fraud 
and corruption and to disrupt the black market for oil.

Right now only a small portion of the Iraqi oil revenues has been 
used for reconstruction; yet billions of American dollars have been 
spent. We need accountability and real answers to ensure the Iraqis 
leverage the oil revenue effectively to bring all of the parties to the 
table.

And where is the accountability with the war spending? We need a 
Truman-style committee to investigate these billions of dollars of no-
bid contracts being awarded in Iraq, and we should bring the war 
funding process completely under the regular appropriation structures.

We have also not seen a plan to transfer the reconstruction contracts 
to the Iraqis. The Iraqi 20-year-olds should be the ones that are 
rebuilding the bridges and the roads and the schools and the hospitals, 
not fighting each other and not attacking our troops.

And where has the progress been made on the political stability? 
Where is the plan to develop a special envoy and to engage others in 
the region to bring forth peace and stability?

In my view, the testimony provided in the several hearings that the 
Armed Services Committee has had have revealed an insufficient 
commitment to these very targets that both General Pace and Secretary 
Gates have testified are required for success. Yet the President 
continues to push forward and send in more troops.

Our men and our women in the military have served admirably and have 
done everything we have asked them to do. They have fought bravely 
under daunting circumstances, often at times without the proper 
equipment that they need. They have made sacrifice after sacrifice in 
leaving their families and loved ones behind to do the job that we have 
asked them to do. And how do we repay this sacrifice and patriotism? By 
continuing to extend their tours indefinitely, cutting their veterans 
benefits when they return home. The dedication and sacrifice of the men 
and the women in the Armed Forces deserves responsible leadership. They 
have given us everything they have, and in turn we must give them a new 
direction for success.

There are those out there that will use this debate as a partisan 
wedge. That type of rhetoric undermines the core values of our 
democracy. In fact, it was Thomas Jefferson who declared that dissent 
is the highest form of patriotism.

