# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `9d4d298dfa0789152b777b9e06fb59f4`
`Mr. BYRD — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I oppose the nomination of Jim Nussle to 
be the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

During his tenure as chairman of the House Budget Committee, he not 
only embraced but helped to enact the woefully misguided and disastrous 
budget policies of this administration, which have resulted in massive 
deficits, including the highest three on record. Those dangerous 
policies have resulted in the loss of hundreds of billions of dollars 
from the Social Security trust funds, and draconian cuts in domestic 
investments that have left the infrastructure of our Nation to 
deteriorate, and agencies, such as the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, FEMA, unprepared to protect the American people.

When I met with Mr. Nussle in July, I also was taken aback by his 
lack of knowledge about funding the military operations in Iraq, 
suggesting that it is common and routine to fund such operations 
through supplemental appropriations bills. He asserted that the United 
States has always funded its wars through supplementals. This is simply 
not true, and certainly something that the nominee for the White House 
budget office ought to have known. Many times the Congress has passed 
supplemental war funding bills at the beginning of a conflict, but then 
budgeted for that war spending as part of the regular appropriations 
process. That is something that this administration has stubbornly 
declined to do, despite overwhelming votes in the Senate calling for 
regular budgeting for the Iraq war. Instead, the administration 
continues to ask the Congress to rubberstamp its emergency supplemental 
funding requests.

I have repeatedly warned against this administration's budget and 
spending policies. I have watched the disastrous results that they have 
brought about. I am not about to endorse a continuation of that kind of 
record today. I am heartened by Mr. Nussle's pledge to work in a 
cooperative way with the Congress and the Appropriations Committees. 
However, I do not foresee any real change in policy in the offing, and 
so I must oppose this nomination.

I yield the floor.