---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9d5832bcbf5eadce0238e99210884da4`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 26 June 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I support the amendment to the emergency 
supplemental funding bill that provides needed assistance for Wisconsin 
and other flood-stricken Midwestern States, unemployed workers, and 
veterans.

As a result of the horrifying floods that have ravaged the Midwest 
over the last 3 weeks, a number of people have lost their lives, 
including two residents of Wisconsin, and many more have lost homes or 
suffered other harm.

I joined a number of my colleagues from affected States in asking 
that flood relief money be included in the supplemental, and I am very 
pleased to support the $2.65 billion in disaster relief in the 
amendment for States suffering from record flooding. I cannot emphasize 
enough how crucial this disaster relief is to the people of Wisconsin. 
Beginning on June 5, Wisconsin was struck by 7 to 9 inches of rain that 
fell over a 24-hour period, followed by destructive winds and 
tornadoes. So far, 28 counties in Wisconsin have been declared disaster 
areas and we expect that at least 2 more will be declared disasters 
shortly. This water is draining into the Mississippi as we speak and 
has inundated communities throughout Iowa, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri 
and surrounding States.

With damage assessments underway, over $400 million of damage has 
been identified in the State of Wisconsin alone. Over 15,000 residents 
have registered for individual assistance in the 22 declared Wisconsin 
counties. An estimated 4,000 wells have been contaminated. The damage 
to crops will be considerable. We have not seen devastation like this 
in my State since 1993.

The assistance provided in this amendment will go a long way to help 
families and businesses get back on their feet, but additional funds 
may be needed down the road. I will continue to work with my colleagues 
in the Senate to ensure that the Federal Government's response is 
prompt and complete.

I am also pleased that this amendment provides thirteen weeks of 
extended unemployment insurance benefits to workers who have exhausted 
their regular unemployment insurance benefits. At this critical time in 
our Nation's economy, it is important that Congress do what it can for 
workers and families who are struggling. Earlier this month, the 
Department of Labor released its unemployment figures for the month of 
May showing a 1-month increase of half a percentage point in the 
unemployment rate to 5.5 percent, which was one of the biggest 1-month 
increases in over two decades. I joined a number of my Senate 
colleagues in requesting an extension of unemployment benefits as part 
of the stimulus package Congress passed earlier this year due to the 
fact that increasing unemployment benefits has a high stimulative 
effect on the economy. It is clear that an extension of unemployment 
benefits is needed in our States and local communities now.

I strongly support the provisions of this amendment that update the 
GI bill to provide comprehensive educational benefits for this 
generation of veterans. This legislation will help thousands of 
servicemembers transition back to civilian life as they return from 
demanding tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. It will also benefit the 
entire Nation as veterans' contributions to the workforce are enhanced 
through higher education. While these provisions should have been paid 
for, passing them is the least we can do for a brave generation of 
Americans who have served their country honorably.

There are other provisions in the amendment that I support, including 
a moratorium on six rules proposed by the administration that would 
undermine the Medicaid Program. I am disappointed, however, that the 
bill no longer includes vital funding for Byrne grants, LIHEAP and 
other domestic priorities. And I continue to be extremely disappointed 
at the willingness of too many of my colleagues to provide the 
President with funds to continue the misguided war in Iraq. While that 
funding is not included in the amendment we will vote on today, I will 
continue to oppose efforts to fund a war that is damaging our national 
security.