# INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `9d59e8e3d83593ced7f450ba11eb8fba`
`Mrs. BOXER — 14 February 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, they said they ''deeply respect and 
support the men and women of our Armed Forces.'' I think the council 
did the right thing. They realized they should not mix up the Iraq war, 
which was brought to us by this President, and the warriors who fight 
it. There is a difference. They recognized that. I am very glad about 
that. You would think Senator DeMint would be very glad about that. He 
is not. He is still angry and he is still wanting to fight the battle 
of a couple weeks ago and not recognize the fact that this letter he 
was railing about, which offended him and many others, was never sent.

That aside, the DeMint amendment is an attack on the rights of 
citizens to participate in free speech. There are a lot of things that 
go on in this country that I think are terrible; I think they are 
wrong, mean spirited, and hurtful. I think a lot of things, because we 
all have our own opinions on what is said. If every time I heard about 
some city councilman in some city in another State saying something I 
thought was offensive, that hurt our military, our seniors, disabled 
people, minorities or children, I came out here and said: Oh, my 
goodness, let's withhold funds from that city because of that city 
councilman, we would have quite a situation on our hands.

State and local governments all across this Nation pass resolutions 
and measures that many of us don't agree with on a host of issues. 
Disagreements are part of the political discourse. Why on Earth would 
we punish good, decent citizens because some members of their local 
government or the sewer district or mosquito abatement district or 
water district or others say something that is offensive? Yes, we have 
a right to come to the floor, as Senator DeMint did, and say it is 
terrible and wrong and take it back. That is fine. I welcome that. But 
I don't sit around waiting to hear what they are saying in South 
Carolina, Georgia, Texas, and Oklahoma--those are the States of the 
Senators who want to take away these funds from the good people of 
northern California. I don't sit around waiting to see what they might 
say, and then say I am going to punish everybody because I don't agree 
with that speech.

The other thing I found interesting is that in a press release the 
Senator from South Carolina, Senator DeMint, challenged the process by 
which the funding requests were granted by the Appropriations 
Committee. Today, he called them ''secret'' earmarks. Yet every one of 
these projects was funded in the most open and transparent manner.

I will show you what those earmarks are. As a matter of fact, this is 
an opportunity for me to celebrate those particular projects because 
they are so important to the police, to the fire department, to the 
children, to the disabled, to students, to the memory of a wonderful 
Congressman Bob Matsui, and also to the environment. You will see what 
I mean. Every document pertaining to those projects was made available 
to the public. Every request was approved in the openness of the House 
and Senate Appropriations Committees and the openness of the House and 
Senate Chambers.

If the Senator from South Carolina, Senator DeMint, was so concerned 
with these funding requests for our police, for our fire department, 
for our children, the disabled community, for our environment, and for 
our college students, he had the opportunity to challenge the funding 
of those requests. He had that opportunity when the bill was on the 
Senate floor. He didn't do that. Oh, no, he is going to challenge them 
because someone in the city council--several members--said something 
offensive that he didn't like and, therefore, as a result of that, 
instead of standing up and talking to those people who made those 
offensive comments and trying to change their mind, he tries to punish 
all the people in the surrounding area. The reason, I would posit, that 
the Senator didn't challenge these earmarks at the time they were made 
is because they are excellent programs.

Congressional and executive funding requests, whether they are 
earmarks from the President or Congress, should be awarded based on 
merit, not based on what someone in a community said. It is just beyond 
belief. They should be able to stand on their own merits and serve the 
people we represent.

I am going to show you some photographs that talk about some of these 
earmarks. The first is of these beautiful children standing in this 
garden that is run for the benefit of public schools in the Berkeley 
School District. These students learn how to plant and grow vegetables 
and harvest the vegetables. They work the garden. They learn about 
nutrition. They learn how to cook the food, serve the food, and clean 
up. This is such a popular program that it is being replicated in 
places as far away as Louisiana. We all know we have serious problems 
with our kids with diabetes. We know our kids don't eat the way we want 
them to because they are attracted to high-sugar foods and sodas and 
all the things that are not good for them. Here is a program that 
teaches them to love the whole notion of eating in a healthy way. That 
is a program Senator DeMint went after, along with his friends who are 
cosponsors. I wish to show you some other programs that are impacted. 
This is unbelievable.

In this photo, we see a few of the most seriously disabled people you 
can find in America today. They want to live independently. Here is Ed 
Roberts, who needs oxygen every second, with a tube in his mouth. We 
want these wonderful people--some of them who are veterans--to be able 
to live independently. Here you see pictures of them doing that, with 
paralyzed bodies--children, moms. He wants to take away the funding 
because he disagreed with what some people said at the Berkeley City 
Council, which they now have taken back. Outrageous. Outrageous.

Let's show you the other earmarks they are going after. Here are 
students at UC Berkeley. There is a program named after Bob Matsui, the 
beloved Congressman. They are going after that program as well.

Here is a picture of congestion in the San Francisco Bay area, where 
you can see the Bay Bridge here; and you can barely tell it from where 
you are sitting, Mr. President, but all these dots are cars. We have 
the most congested areas in the country. We want to get funding for a 
ferry boat to carry people and get them out of their cars and use the 
waterways. This was Congresswoman Lee's earmark. He wants to cut this 
because he didn't agree with members of the council who have now taken 
back what they said.

Here are our heroes, the firefighters. They are part of the 
recipients of an award that we said they deserve so there could be some 
communication in our region between the fire and the police in the 
jurisdiction, so that when we have a terror attack--and we hope we 
never do--or when we have a fire--and we often do--or an earthquake, 
which we often do, they have communications equipment. This is what 
Senator DeMint wants to take away from law-abiding firefighters because 
he didn't agree with something the city council said, which they took 
back.

Here is the real point I have to make about all this. Senator 
Chambliss is an original cosponsor of the DeMint amendment challenging 
these earmarks. Let's look at an earmark he got in his State. It was 
for the Daugherty County School System Healthy Lifestyle Program. Ours 
is the Berkeley Unified School District School Lunch Initiative. I 
don't see Senator Chambliss trying to give up his program. I would 
never try to take that away from him because of something somebody said 
in his State that I didn't agree with.

Here is Senator Cornyn, another proud sponsor of the DeMint amendment 
to slash these earmarks: Ed Roberts Disability Services Campus in


Berkeley. I showed the people coming back from the war, paralyzed 
veterans in wheelchairs. Senator Cornyn wants to cut that earmark 
because the city council said something offensive which they have now 
since taken back. I would never go after Senator Cornyn's paratransit 
vehicle replacement in Abilene, TX.

Here we go: The Strom Thurmond Fitness and Wellness Center at the 
University of South Carolina. We don't know who got that earmark 
because it was secret. It was secret. But I would never try to take 
away the Strom Thurmond Fitness and Wellness Center. Then let them 
leave alone the Bob Matsui Center for Public Service at UC Berkeley.

Senator Inhofe, my friend, is a proud sponsor of this amendment, too. 
He has the Oklahoma City River Ferry Boat Transportation Program. He 
was proud to get that earmark. I would never go after that if someone 
in Oklahoma said something that I did not like, a city councilman, a 
mayor. Maybe I wouldn't like it and I might write them a letter and say 
what they said was wrong, unpatriotic, I don't agree with it. But I 
would never go after an earmark that helps move people from place to 
place. So let him leave alone the San Francisco water ferry.

Here is Senator Vitter, another proud cosponsor of the DeMint 
amendment. I cannot tell my colleagues how many times I have helped 
Senator Vitter in my committee get help for the people of Louisiana. Do 
I agree with what every city council member says in Louisiana? Probably 
not. And if I did disagree with them, if they said something I found 
unpatriotic or not caring about our troops, I would send them a letter, 
but I wouldn't go after Senator Vitter's earmark for the Baton Rouge 
Communication Technology Pilot Program because I think it is important 
that police, fire, and emergency workers, who are our heroes, have the 
funding they need.

The final item I want to show my colleagues is this: This move by 
Senator DeMint to take away the funding was addressed by the chair of 
the Military Affairs Department, Commanding Officer, ROTC, at the 
University of California. I want to read what he said about the 
University of California at Berkeley. I will just read certain 
statements:




 Given the recent spate of controversy surrounding the U.S. 


 Marine recruiting office . . . I feel it is my obligation to 


 inform members of Congress of the relationship we have with 


 the university and the outstanding support it provides not 


 just to the ROTC Program but to all military personnel, their 


 dependents and veterans as well.



 UC Berkeley has been and continues to be a very big 


 supporter of all our ROTC programs here on campus. They 


 should in no way be associated with or linked to the actions 


 of the Berkeley City Council which has taken on a very 


 outspoken stance against the United States Marine Corps 


 Recruiting Station in the city. . . .



 I would like to ensure that those in favor of the Semper Fi 


 Act understand that UC Berkeley is a tremendous supporter of 


 all the military programs on campus as well as all the 


 military personnel, their dependents and veterans who attend 


 this university. It would be a travesty of justice to . . . 


 punish UC Berkeley for the actions of the Berkeley City 


 Council.


When this was written, I don't know whether Captain Laird knew that 
the Berkeley City Council did not send that letter and instead finally 
realized their mistake and said how much they support our men and women 
in uniform.

The fact is, this kind of a punishment for a community such as this, 
a community of families who care about their country, who are taxpaying 
citizens, because of actions of a few, is an outrage. It would be a 
terrible precedent if we now started punishing children, policemen, 
firemen, disabled veterans, and students. If that is what we are going 
to become in this Senate, then we do not deserve to be here. That is 
absolutely wrong.

The Marine Corps has given 232 years of exemplary service to our 
Nation and, tragically, 974 of the marines who served in Iraq paid the 
ultimate price. More than 440 of those were based at Twenty-nine Palms 
and Camp Pendleton in my home State of California. The Marines deserve 
our respect and our gratitude and our support.

Again, I am glad that the council realized there is a difference 
between a war and a warrior.

Again, Senator DeMint seems to be making political points on an issue 
that essentially was resolved. But if he wants to come here and debate 
with me why it is right to take away money from students, if he wants 
to debate with me why it is OK to take away money from disabled 
veterans, why it is OK to take away money from firefighters, many of 
whom are veterans, many of whom put their lives on the line every day, 
if he wants to have that debate, I will be on my feet, and I will have 
that debate.

I know Senator Dorgan wishes to have the floor. Mr. President, is 
Senator Dorgan ready to make his UC request?