---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6599, MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND  VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `9d5d633c5aa45db15733560a38f37aa2`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I have to say that it is 
astonishing to me to what lengths this liberal Congress will go to shut 
down debate and close the legislative process.

This House, Mr. Speaker, has become far more dictatorial and far less 
deliberative in the last 19 months than ever before. In this Congress, 
there have been 59 closed rules, which is more than in any Congress in 
the history of our country.

Mr. Speaker, as you well know, a closed rule means Members are 
prohibited from coming to the House floor and offering an amendment to 
the bill that is being considered on the floor. An open rule allows 
Members to offer amendments to a bill that's being considered on the 
House floor. Mr. Speaker, it is simply as simple as that.

But Mr. Speaker, there hasn't been one single, solitary open rule 
this entire year in this body. For this entire Congress, going back to 
January of last year, there has been only one open rule on bills that 
were not appropriations bills. These facts present a stark picture of 
just how closed and restrictive this liberal Congress has become.

Yet the Speaker and Democrat-controlled Rules Committee aren't 
satisfied with having the worst, most closed record in history. They've 
decided to go even further to undermine the rules and traditions of the 
U.S. House of Representatives. With this rule, they've reached an 
absolute new low. They have chosen to breach the long-standing, 
bipartisan process of an open rule for the consideration of 
appropriations bills.

On what has been an open process on the House floor not just for 
years, not for decades, but dating back to the creation of the 
Appropriations Committee itself, this process is being closed down by 
this oppressive, liberal Congress.

This rule provides for consideration of the Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs funding bill for the next fiscal year. It is a bill 
that has always, Mr. Speaker, had strong bipartisan support. For 
example, last year it passed by a recorded vote of 409 in favor and 
only two against. And during that debate last year, there were just 15 
amendments that were offered. And the total debate on the House floor 
was just 5 hours, which is a short time for appropriations bills.

Mr. Speaker, there is no part of this record that justifies what is 
being proposed today to decimate this open process. There is simply no 
excuse for what is being done and proposed by this rule.

I can only conclude that this is a blatant political attempt to 
stifle debate on the House floor in order to hold onto political power. 
Sadly, Mr. Speaker, it is being done at the expense of the rules and 
traditions of the People's House, the U.S. House of Representatives.

Additionally, Mr. Speaker, the new fiscal year begins on October 1; 
that's just 62 days away. Yet this House hasn't passed one single 
appropriations bill. At the end of the week, it will probably have 
passed one. By comparison, Mr. Speaker, in 2006, the Republican House 
had passed every bill except one by this point of the year.

It is a troubling, disappointing, and dangerous situation when those 
who control this liberal Congress are punting on their duty to pass the 
12 annual appropriations bills while simultaneously undermining the 
open consideration of these very same appropriations bills, an open 
process that has been a bipartisan hallmark of this House since the 
inception of the Appropriations Committee.

And why is this being done, Mr. Speaker? Again, I can only conclude 
that it is because this liberal Congress refuses to allow open debate 
and votes on producing more American-made energy. Those who control 
this Congress have refused to allow a vote on lifting the ban on 
offshore drilling, at ANWR in Alaska, and on other Federal lands.

Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid and Barack Obama oppose offshore drilling 
and in ANWR, but they refuse to let Congress vote on this important 
issue while gas prices, Mr. Speaker, are at record levels and Americans 
are hurting.

Mr. Speaker, I will submit for the Record three articles, one from 
the New York Times regarding Speaker Pelosi, one from the McClatchy 
Washington Bureau regarding Speaker Pelosi's position on offshore 
drilling, one in the House of nearly 6 weeks ago from The Hill 
regarding Mr. Obama's opinion on drilling, and one from the Las Vegas 
Review Journal regarding Majority Leader Reid's position on drilling in 
the Senate.

As you know, Speaker Pelosi has repeatedly insisted that this House 
won't ever vote, is not going to be permitted to vote, and that she 
will do everything possible to block a vote on lowering gas prices by 
producing more American-made energy by drilling for our own Nation's 
gas and oil. Americans can't afford this head-in-the-sand approach. 
Congress needs to stand up and vote on the Republicans' ''all of the 
above'' energy plan that simply says, let's do everything that we can 
to produce more American-made energy, including pursuing more clean 
alternatives like wind and solar, more nuclear power, more biodiesel, 
improving conservation, more investment in new technology research, and 
of course, immediately more drilling and refining of oil and gas from 
America's huge underground reserves.

Mr. Speaker, the choice is clear: we can continue with this ''drill 
nothing'' approach, or we can decide to act, to change course and to 
debate and vote on the Republicans ''all of the above'' plan to lower 
gas prices by producing more energy here in America and finding ways, 
at the same time, to use less.

Mr. Speaker, I believe our ''all of the above'' approach to lowering 
gas prices would pass. It would pass, I believe, Mr. Speaker, if it 
were permitted to have a vote on this House floor. I believe there is a 
majority that would vote for it in this U.S. House. But such a vote has 
yet to be allowed and is not being allowed today. And next week, we're 
going on a 5-week vacation. Mr. Speaker, I think that is intolerable.

The House is being shut down in new, bolder ways to block a vote on 
producing American-made energy. And as a matter of fact, Mr. Speaker, 
this rule is proof of it.

The long-standing, bipartisan practice of considering appropriations 
bills under an open process is being trampled on by this rule. The 
actions that are being taken to restrict and shut down Members' ability 
to offer amendments and debate spending bills--which I might add, Mr. 
Speaker, is the very job that the American people elected us to do--is 
being undermined by this appropriations process, and it creates a very 
dangerous and volatile situation in this House.

Mr. Speaker, the leaders and the chairmen who've made this decision 
may well rue the day that they chose to go down this path.



By their actions, bipartisanship is being diminished, but more 
importantly, Mr. Speaker, the traditions of this House are being 
diminished. One cannot trample on the rules and practices of traditions 
of this House with impunity and then expect no long-term damage to 
result.

This is a sad and shameful rule. So I urge my colleagues to oppose it 
and demand this House uphold open rules for consideration of 
appropriations bills, which is one of the best practices historically 
of this institution. If we do not correct the closed rule course that 
is being set by this rule, it will do a great deal of long-term harm to 
this House that will prove, in my opinion, more difficult to reverse in 
the future.









[From the New York Times, July 17, 2008]







 For Pelosi, a Fight Against Offshore Drilling















(By Carl Hulse)




 Washington.--Upon entering Congress in 1987, Representative 


 Nancy Pelosi quickly became part of the solid California 


 front against oil drilling along much of the nation's coast.



 The Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969 and the steady push to 


 tap the potential reserves off the state's rugged coast had 


 galvanized Californians and made opposition to offshore 


 drilling part of the political DNA of up-and-coming figures 


 like Ms. Pelosi.



 She repeatedly resisted oil drilling in marine sanctuaries 


 near her San Francisco district and, after joining the 


 Appropriations Committee, was an advocate of reinstating the 


 ban on coastal drilling through spending restrictions each 


 year.



 ''We learned the hard way that oil and water do not mix on 


 our coast,'' Ms. Pelosi told a crucial committee in 1996 as 


 she argued for keeping the ban before a Congress then 


 controlled by Republicans.



 Now, with gasoline prices soaring, those drilling 


 restrictions are facing their most severe test in years as 


 calls intensify to pursue




 domestic oil more forcefully. Yet despite increasing pressure 


 from President Bush, a full-bore assault by Congressional 


 Republicans and some anxiety among her own rank-and-file 


 Democrats, Ms. Pelosi is not budging.



 ''The president of the United States, with gas at $4 a 


 gallon because of his failed energy policies, is now trying 


 to say that is because I couldn't drill offshore,'' Ms. 


 Pelosi said in an interview. ''That is not the cause, and I 


 am not going to let him get away with it.''



 Her voice carries considerable weight because Ms. Pelosi, 


 who is now House speaker, can prevent a vote on expanded 


 drilling from reaching the floor.



 And she and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority 


 leader, appear intent on holding the line against calls to 


 approve drilling in areas now off limits. They argue that the 


 oil and gas industry is not aggressively exploring large 


 expanses it has already leased on land and offshore. They 


 have also urged Mr. Bush to pour some fuel from national 


 reserves into the commercial supply chain in an effort to 


 lower prices.



 Trying to demonstrate that Democrats are not opposed to 


 drilling in acceptable locales, the House is scheduled to 


 vote on Thursday on a proposal that would deny oil companies 


 any new leases unless they can show they are diligently 


 exploring existing holdings. The measure would also require 


 annual lease sales from lands in Alaska set aside as a 


 National Petroleum Reserve, and direct the Interior 


 Department to make sure a pipeline is linked to the reserves. 


 Democrats, not subtly, are calling the measure the Drill 


 Responsibly in Leased Lands, or Drill, Act.



 In the Senate, Democrats are pushing a measure to curb 


 speculation in oil markets.



 But Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican 


 leader, who is escorting a delegation to the Arctic National 


 Wildlife Refuge in Alaska this weekend, said the Democrats' 


 approach was woefully insufficient. Mr. Boehner said Ms. 


 Pelosi, in insisting on preserving the drilling ban, was 


 putting Democrats in the crosshairs of voters furious about 


 gas prices.



 ''I think Speaker Pelosi is walking her Blue Dogs and other 


 vulnerable Democrats off a cliff, and they know it,'' said 


 Mr. Boehner, referring to the coalition of Democrats 


 representing more conservative districts.



 He accused the speaker of using procedural maneuvers to 


 thwart votes on expanded drilling, a position that he said 


 would prevail if the moment arrived. ''Harry Reid and Nancy 


 Pelosi are standing in the way of what the American people 


 want,'' Mr. Boehner said.



 In both the House and Senate, small groups of Democrats 


 have begun meeting informally with Republicans to try to 


 reach a bipartisan response to higher oil prices, and opening 


 up new areas to drilling is part of the mix. Leaders of the 


 Blue Dog coalition are openly pressing for drilling in the 


 Arctic refuge and elsewhere.



 Backers of the drilling ban have pushed back furiously and 


 appear to have bolstered some of their colleagues. Senator 


 Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who has been fighting 


 offshore drilling since the 1970s, has been cornering fellow 


 senators to impress upon them the importance of the ban to 


 Californians, comparing it to a mainstay of farm-state 


 senators.



 ''This is our ethanol,'' Mrs. Boxer said of protecting the 


 coast from oil drilling.



 Since taking over as speaker, Ms. Pelosi has asserted 


 herself on energy policy, which she sees as an overarching 


 cause that encompasses national security, climate change, the 


 economy, health care and the environment.



 ''This captures everything,'' said Ms. Pelosi, who last 


 year broke a deadlock that had lasted for decades over 


 increasing automotive fuel economy standards.



 In a private meeting last week, according to some in 


 attendance, Ms. Pelosi told members of her leadership team 


 that a decision to relent on the drilling ban would amount to 


 capitulation to Republicans and the White House, and that she 


 was having none of it. She attributes today's energy problems 


 to a failure of the Bush administration to develop a 


 comprehensive approach, to its ties to the oil industry and 


 to a mishandling of the economy.



 With the drilling restrictions under such scrutiny, backers 


 of the ban say they are heartened that Ms. Pelosi wields the 


 power she does.



 ''It is really important to have a Californian as speaker 


 on this topic,'' said Representative Lois Capps, a Democrat 


 who represents Santa Barbara.



 Ms. Pelosi has shown a willingness on issues like terror 


 surveillance and spending on the Iraq war to look past her 


 personal views and allow legislation she opposes to move 


 through the House. But on the drilling ban, it is clear she 


 sees her position as the one that should carry the day. She 


 said national policy had to move beyond the long dispute over 


 the ban.



 ''This is part of the fight we are in,'' she said. ''We 


 have to get to a place where one day my grandchildren will 


 say, 'Do you believe our grandparents had to go with their 


 car and fill up?' It will be like going with a barrel on our 


 head to a well to get water. That will be the equivalent.''