---
---

# RECOUNTING REASONS FOR VOTING IN FAVOR OF 2002 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING  USE OF MILITARY FORCE IN IRAQ
## `9d6b359051430f1e48f7e551e1bd32b1`
`Ms. LEE — 18 January 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Speaker, first, let me thank the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Waters), the founder of the Out of Iraq Caucus, for her 
leadership and for this special order tonight, because this is 
historic.

First of all, let me just say that with regard to the Out of Iraq 
Caucus, Ms. Waters knew, and this was early on, that Members of 
Congress, whether they supported or opposed the war, needed a space in 
this body, needed a framework to begin to discuss ways to get out of 
Iraq. She saw early on that Members of Congress knew that they were 
misled; that the information and intelligence was distorted; and that 
whether, once again, they believed then and voted for the resolution or 
not, that they wanted now to have that dialogue and that debate. So she 
really did open up the space for the debate which we see now occurring, 
which is extremely important because the debate, quite frankly, 
especially with regard to this war, has been shut down. So thank you, 
Ms. Waters, for your leadership.

Let me also say that tonight we heard from many Members, and I have 
to thank them for their courage and their very clear statements. They 
trusted, as they said, the Commander-in-Chief, and the Commander-in-
Chief violated their trust. Three thousand of our young men and women 
now have died and countless Iraqis have died.

The President the other night said that he has made some mistakes, 
and some of us thought that he was going to talk about how he was going 
to rectify those mistakes. Instead, he talked about how he was going to 
continue to escalate this war and continue to dig this country deeper 
into a hole. He also said, very recently, and his staff, Mr. Snow, 
said, that if the critics of his policies have a plan on what to do, to 
come forward with it.

Quite frankly, I believe, and have said this over and over and over 
again, the President got us into this mess and it is up to him to get 
us out. But if he wants us to come up with a plan, then we have a plan. 
We did just that. We introduced, Congresswoman Woolsey, Waters, and 
myself, H.R. 508, which develops a plan to begin to bring our troops 
home within 6 months. It also provides for reconstruction of Iraq in 
terms of our assistance, and it ensures that there will be no permanent 
military bases in Iraq.

What is going on right now, and we need to call this what it is, is 
an occupation and it is a civil war. The Iraqi people do not want us 
there as occupiers. The American people are sick and tired of this war, 
and we need to bring our troops home.



Let me just remind you that when this authorization to use force was 
presented to the Congress, Mr. Spratt, as was said earlier, offered an 
alternative resolution, and I offered an alternative resolution, which 
basically said that, look, the United Nations has the responsibility 
for the inspections process to occur. Let the U.N. process move 
forward. We received, I believe, about 72 Members, some of which came 
down and spoke tonight on my resolution. And many Members have told me 
now that they wish they had voted for that resolution because we would 
not be in the mess we are in now.

Finally, let me just say once again to Ms. Waters, thank you for your 
leadership. I want to thank you for your voice and for making sure that 
the debate finally is occurring in this Congress, and I urge members of 
the public and others who believe that what the American people said in 
November gives us our marching orders to move forward, that they know 
that we are hearing.

We are going to continue with this debate. Many of us are going to 
say no to this escalation and no to this $100 billion supplemental. We 
want our troops home, we want them protected, and we think the funds 
should be used to do just that.