# None
## `9d88df78ec184f7b27d32bc7af6a612a`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Madam Speaker, I rise today to share with the 
House of Representatives two high priority projects included at my 
request in H.R. 5658, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009.

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (MI-08).

Bill Number: H.R. 5685.

Account: Other Procurement--Navy, Line: Aviation Support Equipment--
Aviation Support Equipment Equipment--Aviation Life Support (P-1 Line 
97).

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Peckham Industries.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2822 N. Martin Luther King Blvd., 
Lansing, MI 48906.

Description of Request: Provide $8,000,000 to fund procurement of 
approximately 8,000 sets of the Multi Climate Protection System (MCPS) 
for U.S. Navy Aircrews. Approximately $3.4 million will be spent on 
garment production, $4.2 million on materials, and $0.4 million on 
quality control/fielding. The total requirement for the U.S. Navy for 
MCPS is 25,000 systems. Between FY 2004 and FY 2007, the Navy and 
Congress have provided enough funding for fielding of only 25% of the 
required systems. In FY 2008, Congress allocated $2 million for the 
program. In FY 2007 the House and Senate Armed Services Committees 
addressed the need for MCPS in their authorization bills. The House 
authorization text reads, ''The committee strongly encourages the 
Department of the Navy to include the necessary funds for the MCPS in 
its future budget requests to meet MCPS requirements.''

Requesting Member: Congressman Mike Rogers (MI-08).

Bill Number: H.R. 5658.

Account: Operations and Maintenance, (BA 01: Operating Forces).

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Peckham Industries.

Address of Requesting Entity: 2822 N. Martin Luther King Blvd., 
Lansing, MI 48906

Description of Request: Provide $4,000,000 to fund procurement of 
approximately 35,000 sets of Cold Weather Layering System (CWLS) for 
the U.S. Marines. Approximately $2 million will be spent on garment 
production, $1.6 million on materials, $0.4 million on quality control/
fielding. In direct response to the U.S. Marine Corps' unique combat 
needs, a Polartec Power Dry Silkweight and Polartec Power Dry Grid with 
flame resistant properties for use in the CWLS is currently in 
development. Roadside bombs kill or wound more troops than any other 
weapon in Iraq, having killed more than 1,200 U.S. service members to 
date. The heat and flame produced by roadside bombs presents a 
significant burn threat, and the USMC has called for the use of flame 
resistant textiles to maintain safety in harsh combat conditions.
