# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9d894e4a39b797398b274a7a3e0815e5`
`Mr. McCAIN — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I thank the Senator from California for 
that thoughtful question. The fact is, I do read the polls, and if the 
Senator from California had paid attention to my opening statement, she 
would have known that I made it very clear that I understand the 
frustration and sorrow of the American people. I also know a lot of us 
are not driven by polls. A lot of us are driven by principle, and a lot 
of us do what we think is right no matter what the polls say.

So I appreciate the concern of the Senator from California about 
whether I read the polls. I appreciate that greatly. But I do know also 
that when you send a signal, and I appreciate the Senator's concern--I 
was talking about the liberal left addressing the war in Cambodia, is 
what I was speaking of. The record is clear, and I will be glad to 
provide other quotes of a similar nature. But I do also know that those 
of us who study history, those of us who spend time in Iraq, those of 
us who spend time with various leaders, such as General Zinni, such as 
General Scowcroft, such as Secretary of State Baker, such as many 
others, we all know what the consequences of a date for withdrawal will 
be. And it isn't my opinion alone. It is shared by a broad variety of 
national security experts in this field.

I also point out that it does have an effect on the troops in the 
field when they see effort after effort after effort to withdraw, to 
force them to be withdrawn and, obviously, a failure of their mission.

I welcome this debate, as I said earlier. I think it is important to 
inform the American people. I think it is important to have a 
respectful exchange of views. And I will continue to respect the views 
of the Senator from California, but I will tell her that I have seen 
this movie before, and I have seen what happens when we have a defeated 
military and we have people who assure us that a withdrawal is without 
consequences.

I believe, as Henry Kissinger as recently as a few days ago said:





. . . precipitate withdrawal [from Iraq] would produce a 


 disaster. It would not end the war but shift it to other 


 areas, like Lebanon or Jordan or Saudi Arabia. The war 


 between the Iraqi functions would intensify. The 


 demonstration of American impotence would embolden radical 


 Islamism and further radicalize its disciples from Indonesia 


 and India to the suburbs of European capitals.


Natan Sharansky says the same thing. A person who knows about 
oppression, who knows about freedom, who served as a beacon to me and a 
hero in my entire life says:




 A precipitous withdrawal of U.S. forces could lead to a 


 bloodbath that would make the current carnage pale by 


 comparison.


All of these are statements by people for whom I have the greatest 
respect. I hope we will heed some of their admonitions.

Madam President, I yield the floor.