---
---

# TAX ON BONUSES RECEIVED FROM CERTAIN TARP RECIPIENTS
## `9da10413a15cd1765ffd59612c67c2db`
`Mr. INOUYE — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, the Senator from Arkansas has made a good-
faith effort to address many of flaws in the Sessions amendment.

First, this amendment would require savings from discretionary 
spending, mandatory taxes and revenues.

Second, it wisely eliminates the requirement for a two-thirds 
majority to increase spending, leaving in place the supermajority 60-
vote requirement already included in the budget act.

And, it reduces the amount of discretionary savings from the Obama 
request by more than half--to $77 billion over 3 years.

While it is a far better alternative to the Sessions amendment, I 
must still oppose it.

The matter for determining how much deficit reduction the country 
needs over the next three years should be left up to either the Budget 
Committee or the Deficit Reduction Commission. It should not be 
determined by an amendment on the Senate floor.

In addition, the burden of taking half the total cut from 
discretionary spending is too great when the real deficit problem has 
been caused by runaway mandatory spending and tax cuts for the rich.

The 3-year cuts of $77 billion in discretionary spending would still 
be crippling to the Obama budget plan.

The Senate should debate this matter on the budget resolution which 
the Senate is expected to consider next month, instead of on the FAA 
Reauthorization Act that is before us today.

I very much appreciate the Senator's efforts to achieve a more 
balanced amendment, but I regrettably must still oppose the amendment.

Mr. President, the amendment from the Senator from Alabama seeks to 
constrain discretionary spending at the levels agreed to in last year's 
budget resolution. He says his intent is to cap spending for the next 3 
years. Now we all understand that discretionary


spending is likely to be frozen this year as the President has 
proposed, but this proposal goes way beyond what the President has 
recommended.

The President has proposed a modified spending freeze which caps 
nonsecurity related spending.

The President allows growth in homeland security; this amendment does 
not assume growth.

The President has requested more than $732 billion in his budget for 
National Defense for fiscal year 2011 including the cost of war. This 
amendment only allocates $614 billion.

Specifically, this amendment only allows $50 billion for the cost of 
overseas deployments. As such it fails to fully cover the cost of the 
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as estimated by DOD for fiscal year 2011 
by $109 billion.

While the proponents of this amendment note that it waives the $50 
billion war allowance if we are at war, why does the amendment not 
support the full request? Some could interpret the provision to mean if 
we want to support our men and women deployed overseas we would need to 
get 60 votes. Does the Senate really want national defense to be 
hostage to a 60-vote threshold?

This is not the same as President Obama's plan. Over the 3 years in 
the Sessions amendment, the caps he would put into place are $141 
billion below President Obama's 3-year plan--$50 billion below Defense, 
not including the cost of war, and $91 billion below nondefense 
spending.

If we adopt the Sessions caps we will have to gut the President's 
agenda for discretionary spending--education, green jobs, and homeland 
security.

The critical flaw in this amendment is it fails to do anything 
serious about deficits. It fails to address the two principal reasons 
why our fiscal house is out of balance.

It is a fact that the growth in the debt has resulted primarily from 
unchecked mandatory spending and massive tax cuts for the rich. This 
amendment fails to respond to either of those two problems. In short, 
this amendment is shooting at the wrong target.

Moreover, this amendment also wants to raise the threshold on 
discretionary spending increases to 67-vote approval allowing one-third 
of the Senate to dictate to the majority.

We already have a threshold of 60 votes required to increase 
discretionary spending above the budget resolution. I for one cannot 
believe the Senate wants to let a mere one third of the Senate dictate 
to the other two thirds whether there is a bona fide need for increased 
spending.

This is the wrong direction for this institution. Mandatory spending 
has increased substantially the last few years. Tax cuts for the rich 
have constrained revenues, but neither tax cuts nor mandatory spending 
increases would be subject to 67 votes.

The Senator from Alabama says this approach worked to help balance 
the budget in the 1990s. Well, that is only partially correct and it is 
critical that my colleagues understand the difference.

In the 1990s our budget summits produced an agreement to cap 
discretionary spending, but they also decreased mandatory spending and 
they increased revenues at the same time.

It was only by getting an agreement on all three areas of the budget 
at the same time that we were able to achieve a balanced budget.

Now let's be clear, many of our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle are happy to put a cap on discretionary spending, but they don't 
want to put policies in place to make sure we have enough revenues to 
reduce the deficit.

Any honest budget analyst can tell you we will never achieve a 
balanced budget just by freezing discretionary spending. We could 
eliminate all discretionary spending increases for defense, other 
security spending, and nondefense and still not balance the budget.

Moreover, if we cut discretionary spending without reaching an 
agreement on mandatory spending and taxes we will find it very hard to 
get those who do not want to address revenues to compromise.

I want to remind my colleagues that the administration has just 
announced that it will create a Deficit Reduction Commission to help us 
get our financial house in order. It will look at both revenue and 
spending and find the right balance to restore fiscal discipline.

They will make their recommendations to the Congress and the majority 
leader has committed that the recommendations of that Commission will 
be brought to the Senate for a vote.

Rather than rushing to address only one small portion of the issue, 
the Senate should await the judgment of the Deficit Reduction 
Commission which will cover all aspects of the problem.

As chairman of the Appropriations Committee, I agree that everyone 
should tighten their belts. The problem with this amendment is that all 
the tightening will be done on a small portion of spending, while 
revenues and mandatory spending will still be unchecked.

The Senate has already rejected this flawed plan twice in the last 2 
months. This amendment hasn't gotten any better in the intervening 
period. It still is shooting at the wrong target. It still fails to 
address the real causes of our deficits and national debt. It is far 
less that the President has requested. I urge my colleagues once again 
to vote no.















 Amendment No. 3453
