---
---

# CONSTITUTIONAL CHECKS AND BALANCES
## `9db3cb0aff84b961e7781d3492101235`
`Mr. KLEIN of Florida — 24 October 2007`

---


Mr. KLEIN of Florida. Thank you, the gentleman from Kentucky and the 
gentleman from Minnesota. It was great. It reminded me of being back in 
school of reading the Federalist Papers and those kind of things. But 
for those folks listening in this room and around the country, I think 
we all understand very clearly this is a living, breathing document, 
the Constitution. It has changed over the years, not the language, but 
the belief, but the fundamental goals and the values behind it are all 
the same. I think when I speak to people back in Florida, and they say 
to me, ''Get control over the problems in Iraq,'' whether that is 
changing the policy or making sure that the armor is there and that our 
military is properly supplied. ''What happened in Katrina? How could 
our government, when we saw those pictures on TV, how would could this 
be the United States?'' We look at third-world countries around the 
world and surely we go and support them, and yet in our own cities we 
saw the failure of the government. And unfortunately, at that time, 
very little ''buck stops here'' kind of response. People died 
unfortunately, billions of dollars in property loss, and just the 
bruising of the American psyche, not to mention the loss of personal 
lives in New Orleans and other places. It was so wrong on so many 
levels. I think that hurt America. But the key in what our 
responsibility is, Members of Congress and Americans together, is to 
say, let's learn from the errors. Let's learn from our mistakes. That 
is where the accountability, the balance of power, asking the 
questions, getting the answers, learning from those mistakes, whether 
it is in Iraq and finding out where those billions of dollars of cash 
have gone so it doesn't happen again, whether it is foreign policy or 
whether it is policy that affects everything in this country. We saw a 
bridge collapse. Are we looking at all the bridges in the United States 
to make sure that our infrastructure is safe?

Mr. Ellison obviously is deeply involved and truly has been a great 
leader and hero to your community because you obviously knew exactly 
what needed to be done there. But these are the questions. Where is 
America today? And the only way we are going to continue to be this 
great country, this beacon around the world, is to be able to have a 
thriving democracy that doesn't let one end of the spectrum, in this 
case the executive branch, run over and not allow the Members of 
Congress and the American people to ask the questions, get the answers, 
learn and move forward in a very, very positive way, which is the 
American value that we all have.

Americans can do anything they want. We know that. But you can't have 
Washington stopping it. Unfortunately, until this most recent Congress 
of which we are all privileged to be a part, we had year after year 
after year where Congress unfortunately didn't do its job in many of 
our opinions. I am very proud to say that we are making many of the 
right moves here. We have a lot more work to do. Let's make no mistake 
about it. Americans demand and expect us to do our job, to do it with 
fervor and excitement and make sure we correct some of these mistakes 
and move forward.

But we need help from the executive branch. They have to realize 
there are limits to those responsibilities. There are no personal 
issues here, but responsibilities of moving this country ahead.


If everyone will get out of their corner a little bit and come 
together, I think we can solve all these problems and do it in a very 
positive way.