---
---

# TO REVISE UNITED STATES POLICY ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `9db59112647ff9ebced6efb4463d4811`
`Mr. McCAIN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, no matter we will debate this year is as 
important as the future of America's involvement in Iraq. The decisions 
we make will shape the future of the Middle East, the conduct of 
American foreign relations, the security of our Nation, and the lives 
of our countrymen.

Just as each of us will use our best judgment to find answers to the 
problems we face in this war, so too must we heed the moral 
implications of our judgments regardless of the political 
ramifications. Matters of war and peace impose responsibilities on us 
that mock our other less solemn obligations in which partisan or 
personal considerations may be expected to have a less injurious 
effect.

I must admit to some bewilderment at the way in which the proponents 
of the resolution authored by the majority leader have chosen to 
proceed. They do not support the President's plan to send additional 
troops to Iraq as one element of a broader effort to stabilize that 
violence-torn country. They believe the Senate should be on record as 
opposing the plan to augment our forces. Fair enough. Let's have this 
debate, and if any Senator believes our Nation is embarking on a 
misguided approach, he or she has not just the right but the obligation 
to oppose it vigorously. Such is our responsibility as elected 
officials in a Congress that possesses the constitutional power of the 
purse.

Yet we debate today not legislation that would defund the war but, 
rather, a new resolution authorizing again the use of military force in 
Iraq. Having authorized the President to use military force in Iraq in 
2002, the sponsors of this new resolution would attempt to legislate 
our troops' mission in midstream. They would not declare war, nor end 
it, as the Constitution provides, but micromanage it. I ask my 
colleagues: Is such micromanagement of warfare the responsibility of 
this body? The Supreme Court has said in the past that the conduct of 
campaigns is the province of our Nation's executive branch, not a task 
for lawmakers. Yet S.J. Res. 9, by choosing particular


missions for U.S. forces in Iraq and forbidding others, would attempt 
to exercise the power properly reserved for the Commander in Chief of 
our Armed Forces.

When Congress authorized this war, we committed America to a mission 
that entails the greatest sacrifice a country can make, one that falls 
disproportionately on those Americans who love their country so much 
they volunteer to risk their lives to accomplish that mission. When we 
authorized this war, we accepted the responsibility to make sure they 
could prevail. When we voted to send them into battle, we asked them to 
use every ounce of their courage and fortitude on behalf of us.

Now it is only right that we, the elected officials entrusted with 
overseeing the future of our soldiers' involvement, exercise a lesser 
magnitude of courage, our political courage, on behalf of them and the 
country they serve. If any Senator believes that our troops' sacrifice 
is truly in vain, the dictates of conscience demand that she or he act 
to prevent it. Those who would cut off all funding for this war, though 
I disagree deeply with their position and dread its consequences, have 
the courage of their convictions, and I respect them for it. If, on the 
other hand, you believe, as I do, that an increase of U.S. troops in 
Iraq, carrying out a counterinsurgency mission and coupled with 
critical political and economic benchmarks to be met by the Iraqi 
Government, provides a better--and perhaps the last--chance for success 
in Iraq, then you should give your support to this new strategy.

It may not be popular nor politically expedient, but we are always at 
our best when we put aside the small politics of the day in the 
interest of our nation and the values upon which they rest.

Mr. President, allow me to turn to the substance of this resolution. 
After stating, twice, that the conflict in Iraq requires principally a 
political solution, it would legislate the withdrawal of U.S. forces in 
Iraq. Let me ask the sponsors of this resolution precisely what 
assumption is behind this construction. Is it that all hope is lost in 
Iraq, that we have lost the war and thus must bring our troops home? Or 
is it the proponents' contention that by withdrawing troops we will 
actually maximize the chances of success?

Can we, by withdrawing our troops from Iraq, actually increase the 
stability in Iraq rather than risk catastrophe, and induce a political 
solution rather than make it less possible? Is success in Iraq as 
simple as issuing redeployment orders, a move blocked only by stubborn 
commanders and civilian authorities?

General David Petraeus, for one, believes that it is not. Of course 
the dire situation in Iraq demands a political solution. That is 
undeniably true. But a political solution among the Iraqis cannot be 
simply conjured. It is impossible for meaningful political and economic 
activity to take place in an environment as riddled with violence as 
Baghdad is today. Security is the precondition for political and 
economic progress, and without security, we will not see the political 
settlement all of us agree is necessary.

Until the government and its coalition allies can protect the 
population, the Iraqi people will increasingly turn to extra-
governmental forces, especially Sunni and Shiite militias, for 
protection. Only when the government has a monopoly on the legitimate 
use of force will its authority have meaning, and only when its 
authority has meaning can political activity have the results we seek.

The presence of additional forces could allow the Iraqi government to 
do what it cannot accomplish today on its own--impose its rule 
throughout the country. Toward that end we have begun executing a 
traditional counterinsurgency strategy aimed at protecting the 
population and controlling the violence. In bringing greater security 
to Iraq, and chiefly to Baghdad, our forces can give the government a 
fighting chance to pursue reconciliation.

This does not imply that reconciliation is the inevitable outcome of 
a troop surge. On the contrary, there is no guarantee of success. What 
the situation demands is not a guarantee, but rather a strategy 
designed to give us the best possible chance for success. This, I 
believe, is what the new plan represents. It gives America and the 
Iraqis a better chance to avoid the catastrophic consequences of 
failure.


Catastrophic failure is, on the other hand, what many of us fear is 
on offer should the proponents of this resolution prevail. They would 
shift the focus of our commanders and troops from establishing security 
in Iraq to three limited objectives: protecting coalition personnel and 
infrastructure, training and equipping Iraqi forces, and conducting 
targeted counter-terrorism operations.

Let us think about the implications of ordering American soldiers to 
target ''terrorists,'' but not those who foment sectarian violence. Was 
the attack on the Golden Mosque in Samarra a terrorist operation or the 
expression of sectarian violence? When the Madhi Army attacks 
government police stations, are they acting as terrorists or as a 
militia? What about when an American soldier comes across some unknown 
assailant burying an IED in the road? The obvious answer is that such 
acts very often constitute terrorism in Iraq and sectarian violence in 
Iraq. The two are deeply intertwined, and that is one reason why 
progress has been so difficult. To say that targeting terrorist 
violence is allowable while stopping sectarian violence is illegal 
flies in the face of this reality.

The three limited missions contained in this resolution would 
prohibit intervention to stop genocide, should that terrible 
consequence unfold as a result of our withdrawal. Can we really expect 
American soldiers and Marines to turn their backs while ethnic 
cleansing on a Rwanda-like level of violence occurs in Baghdad? I don't 
think it is realistic or right to expect Americans to observe another 
Srebrenica on a truly epic scale occur, and do nothing to stop it. And 
I don't think it is realistic to think that we can somehow ameliorate 
its catastrophic consequences for the rest of Iraq and the region by 
continuing to chase insurgents and al-Qaida terrorists on search and 
destroy missions or stretching our forces along its borders to prevent 
other nations from intervening more forcefully to support whichever 
side they find their interests aligned with.

I've heard some argue that Iraq is already a catastrophe, and we need 
to get our soldiers out of the way of its consequences. To my 
colleagues who believe this, I say, you have no idea how much worse 
things could get, indeed, are likely to get, if we simply accede to the 
sectarian violence in Baghdad. It is a city of six million people, two 
million of whom are Sunni. Without U.S. forces there to attempt to 
prevent it from descending further into the sectarian warfare, and all 
of its citizens turning to the militias and insurgents to protect them, 
the bloodshed and destruction we have witnessed to date will be but a 
suggestion of the humanitarian calamity to come.

The President, under this legislation, would have to begin 
redeployments within 120 days, and nearly all troops would have to 
leave Iraq by March 31, 2008. Why were these dates chosen? Why these 
and not others? Why dates for withdrawal, rather than conditions? Such 
mandates are a retreat, not a strategy, and we should be honest about 
the character of such a proposal.

Iraq is not Vietnam. We were able to walk away from Vietnam. If we 
walk away from Iraq now, we risk a failed state in the heart of the 
Middle East, a haven for international terrorists, an invitation to 
regional war in this economically vital area, and a humanitarian 
disaster that could involve millions of people. If we walk away from 
Iraq, we will be back--possibly in the context of a wider war in the 
world's most volatile region.

All of us want to bring out troops home, and to do so as soon as 
possible. None of us, no matter how we voted on the resolution 
authorizing this war, believes the situation that existed until 
recently is sustainable. None of us can say we have proposed a course 
of action that will achieve certain success. The hour is late. The 
situation is, indeed, dire.

But all of us have a responsibility to withstand despair to make 
sound, informed judgments about how to proceed from here, and to defer 
our own interests and political considerations to considerations of 
what is in the best interests of our country. Presidents don't lose 
wars. Political parties don't


lose wars. Nations lose wars and nations suffer the consequences. Those 
consequences are far graver than a lost election.

When a nation goes to war, a million tragedies ensue. None are more 
painful than the loss and injury of a country's finest patriots. It is 
a terrible thing, war, but not the worst thing. The men and women we 
have sent into harm's way understand that. They, not us, have endured 
the heartache and deprivations of war so that the worst thing would not 
befall us, so that America might be secure in her freedom, The war in 
which they fight has divided Congress and the American people. But it 
has divided no American in their admiration for them. We all honor 
them. We are all--those who supported the decision that placed them in 
harm's way and those who opposed it--we are all humbled by their 
example, and chastened in our prideful conviction that we, too, in our 
own way, have offered our country some good service. It may be true or 
it may not, but no matter how measurable our own contributions to this 
blessed and beautiful country, they are a poor imitation of theirs. I 
know we all know how little is asked of us compared to their service, 
and the solemn and terrible sacrifice made by those who will never 
return to the country they loved so well.

In the last few weeks some of those brave men and women have learned 
their tour in Iraq will last longer than they were initially told. 
Others have learned that they will soon return to combat sooner than 
they had been led to expect. It is a sad and hard thing to ask so much 
more of Americans who have already given more than their fair share to 
the defense of our country. Few of them and their families will have 
greeted the news without feeling greatly disappointed and worried, and 
without offering a few well deserved complaints in the direction of 
those of us who have imposed on them this additional hardship. Then 
they will shoulder a rifle and risk everything--evetything--to 
accomplish their mission, to protect another people's freedom and our 
own country from harm.

May God bless and protect them. And may we, their elected 
representatives, have the political courage to stand by our 
convictions, and offer something more than doubts, criticism, or no 
confidence votes to this debate. They deserve more than that.

I know that every Member of this body is united in our regard and 
concern for them. I know every Member of this body is struggling to 
understand the best way forward to avoid complete failure in Iraq. But 
whether this resolution carries or not, these soldiers and marines are 
going to deploy to Baghdad. If we are certain that despite their 
courage and devotion they cannot succeed, then take the action the 
Constitution affords us to prevent their needless sacrifice. If we are 
not prepared to take that action, then let us do everything in our 
power to help them succeed. Those are the only responsible, the only 
honorable choices before us. There are no others. I wish there were. 
But here we are, confronting a political, military and moral dilemma of 
immense importance, with the country's most vital security interests 
and the lives of the best Americans among us at stake. May God grant us 
the wisdom and humility to make this difficult judgment in our 
country's best interests only, and the courage to accept our 
responsibility for the consequences which will ensue.

I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my 5 minutes.