---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9db80b07af85fdbf57676bb60b2f0938`
`Mr. BUNNING — 26 January 2007`

---


Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, today I rise to pay tribute to Army SGT 
Tommy Rieman, a native of Independence, KY, who received the military 
Silver Star for exceptional courage. He exhibited this courage when 
insurgents attacked his reconnaissance squad near the Abu Ghraib prison 
in Iraq on December 3, 2003. His selfless act of bravery and 
unwillingness to fail exemplify the true definition of a soldier.

Sergeant Rieman grew up in Independence, a small town in northern 
Kentucky. While at Simon Kenton High School, he was captain of the 
football team and was a member of the wrestling team, before he 
graduated in 1999. Sergeant Rieman was a teenager, pumping gas at a 
local gas station when he decided to enlist in the Army. This 
monumental decision he made to begin his exceptional military career 
would go on to shape his destiny.

While serving in Iraq, Sergeant Rieman showcased immense calm under 
pressure, when his squad came under attack by insurgents. With the 
convoy under heavy fire from rocket-propelled grenades and explosive 
devices, he used his own body as a shield to protect his squad gunman 
and returned fire to the enemy. The humvees that the squad was 
traveling in did not have any doors, so as a result Sergeant Rieman 
suffered two bullet wounds and multiple shrapnel injuries. Despite 
these injuries, he was still able to direct the convoy off the road and 
away from the live fire combat, only to be attacked by another smaller 
group of insurgents. Sergeant Rieman commanded and led his squad to 
return fire, and the enemy's weapons were silenced. At this point, the 
situation was calm and he was able to call a medical helicopter to 
treat the injuries of these brave soldiers.

After returning from Iraq, in August 2004 Sergeant Rieman was awarded 
a Silver Star for his brave actions that day in Fort Bragg, NC. He is 
now employed as an administrative assistant for the Army personnel 
office in the Pentagon. In May 2006, he was selected to be a 
participant in the ''America's Army: Real Heroes'' video game program, 
which recounts the lives of military soldiers who have shown heroism 
and bravery in the war on terror. Sergeant Rieman will have his 
military history and motivational story told through this game, with 
the hope of inspiring others to greatness.

On January 23, 2007, Sergeant Rieman was a guest of the First Lady 
and was formally recognized by President Bush, who discussed his 
bravery in the annual State of the Union Address to Congress. He stated 
that Sergeant Rieman, like so many other Americans who have volunteered 
to defend us, had earned the respect of the Nation. I cannot agree with 
this statement more. It brings me great pride to see a soldier of the 
caliber of Sergeant Rieman represent Kentucky in such a courageous and 
selfless way. He is an inspirational example to me and to the entire 
Commonwealth.
