---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `9dc47a2646a26ca0b91bf91291a8c77e`
`Mr. DORGAN — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, if the Senator will yield for a question 
or comment, I think the special inspector general, Stuart Bowen, has 
done a terrific job. I would commend all of my colleagues to take a 
look at the reports the special inspector general has issued. They are 
unbelievably valuable to us.

The Senator is correct. There were some who were pushing very hard to 
eliminate the special inspector general, and it was the fight waged by 
Senator Levin and Senator Warner to say that would not make sense at 
all. So I appreciate the work of Inspector General Bowen, and I 
appreciate the work of my colleagues.
















 Exhibit 1




























U.S. Senate,



















Committee on Armed Services,



















Washington, DC, March 6, 2008.


 Hon. David M. Walker,


 Comptroller General of the United States,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Walker: Nearly five years ago, on March 27, 2003, 


 then Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, in testimony 


 before the Defense Subcommittee of the House Appropriations 


 Committee, was asked whom he expected would pay for the 


 rebuilding of Iraq. He answered that ''there's a lot of money 


 to pay for this. It doesn't have to be U.S. taxpayer money. 


 And it starts with the




 assets of the Iraqi people . . . the oil revenues of that 


 country could bring between 50 and 100 billion dollars over 


 the course of the next two or three years. . . . We are 


 dealing with a country that can really finance its own 


 reconstruction and relatively soon.''



 In fact, we believe that it has been overwhelmingly U.S. 


 taxpayer money that has funded Iraq reconstruction over the 


 last five years, despite Iraq earning billions of dollars in 


 oil revenue over that time period that have ended up in non-


 Iraqi banks. At the same time, our conversations with both 


 Iraqis and Americans during our frequent visits to Iraq, as 


 well as official government and unofficial media reports, 


 have convinced us that the Iraqi Government is not doing 


 nearly enough to provide essential services and improve the 


 quality of life of its citizens.



 According to the U.S. Department of State's Iraq Weekly 


 Status Report for February 27, 2008, the Iraq Oil Ministry 


 goal for 2008 is to produce 2.2 million barrels per day 


 (MBPD). To date through the 24th of February, the 2008 weekly 


 averages have ranged from a low of 2.1 MBPD to a high of 2.51 


 MBPD, missing that goal for one week only. Exports are over 


 1.9 MBPD, with revenues estimated at $41.0 billion in 2007 


 and $9.4 billion in 2008 year to date.



 Extrapolating the $9.4 billion of oil revenues for the 


 first two months of 2008 yields an estimate of $56.4 billion 


 for all of 2008. And that figure will probably be low given 


 the predictions for oil prices to continue to rise over the 


 coming year. In essence, we believe that Iraq will accrue at 


 least $100.0 billion in oil revenues in 2007 and 2008.



 We request you look into this matter and provide answers to 


 the following questions:



 What are the estimated Iraqi oil revenues each year from 


 2003-2007?



 How much has Iraq and the United States, respectively, 


 spent annually during that time period on training, equipping 


 and supporting Iraqi security forces, and on Iraq 


 reconstruction, governance, and economic development?



 What are the projections for oil revenue and spending for 


 2008?



 What is the estimate of the total Iraqi oil revenue that 


 has accumulated unspent from 2003-2007, and the expected 


 estimate at the end of 2008?



 How much money does the Iraqi Government have deposited, in 


 which banks, and in what countries?



 Why has the Iraqi Government not spent more of its oil 


 revenue on reconstruction, economic development and providing 


 essential services for the Iraqi people?



 Your assistance in this matter would be appreciated.





 Sincerely,


 John Warner,



 Member.


 Carl Levin,



 Chairman.
