---
---

# None
## `9dd2a4a01a9d7f4cb9cee7c71764b6c9`
`Mr. TURNER — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, on the occasion of his retirement from the 
United States Air Force, I want to recognize Colonel Warren Henderson 
for his 26 years of dedicated service to our country. In his most 
recent assignment, he serves as the Chief, Weapon Systems Division, 
Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Legislative Liaison. Colonel 
Warren Henderson is responsible for Congressional liaison and annual 
authorization of over $50B for all Air Force weapon systems, munitions,


Science/Technology, Research and Development, and Special Access 
Programs. His Division is responsible for developing and executing 
strategies to best advocate for Air Force programs, and prepares AF 
senior leadership for testimony before House and Senate Armed Services 
Committees and Select Committees on Intelligence.

The colonel entered the Air Force in 1981 after receiving his 
commission from the U.S. Air Force Academy. He commanded the 23d 
Fighter Group ''Flying Tigers'' and the 494th Fighter Squadron, which, 
under his leadership, received the U.S. Air Forces in Europe 
Commander's Trophy as the top fighter squadron in the command. He is a 
command fighter pilot with approximately 4,000 flying hours and has 
flown combat missions over Iraq, Serbia, and Afghanistan.

I join my colleagues in expressing our sincere appreciation to 
Colonel Warren Henderson for his outstanding service to both the United 
States Air Force and our Legislative Branch. We wish him the best as he 
transitions into a new career. Colonel Henderson is a true professional 
and a credit to himself and the United States Air Force.
