# None
## `9de189339625998e473eaed7442fb4e8`
`Ms. PELOSI — 17 December 2010`

---


Ms. PELOSI. I thank the chairman for yielding and I commend him and 
Ranking Member, soon-to-be Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for giving us 
this opportunity to address the resolution presented by our chairwoman, 
Congresswoman Nita Lowey, who chairs the Foreign Ops subcommittee.

All of you on Foreign Affairs and on Foreign Ops in appropriations 
know full well the magnitude of the leader that Richard Holbrooke was. 
As I address some personal remarks about him, I want to say how 
significant it was that he understood the important role that Congress 
plays in our foreign policy, whether it was as the Ambassador to the 
United Nations, whether it was in his work forging a peace agreement, 
the Dayton Accords, or whether it was in his role now as Special Envoy 
to Afghanistan and Pakistan.

He would come to Capitol Hill bringing his tremendous and brilliant 
mind, his great intellect, his boundless energy, and his sense of 
humor. He had a tenacity about him that was unsurpassed. His 
determination was palpable. You could see it in the air. When he 
addressed an issue, you knew that a solution would be found and he, 
indeed, worked very, very hard in all that he did; but he also brought, 
as I say, a brilliant, great intellect.

With the passing of Ambassador Holbrooke, our country has lost a 
brilliant and respected diplomat. We have--but his life and his legacy 
will continue to affect our search for peace in the world, resolution 
of conflict, improving relationships among countries, having a values 
based American foreign policy.

He was a strong fighter for peace throughout the world and an 
advocate for American values at the United Nations. He will be long 
remembered, again, for forging the agreement among bitter rivals to end 
3 years of bloody sectarian war in the former Yugoslavia. Now that 
peace is in the region, it is hard to remember how bitter that fight 
was, one forever, that went on for a long time.

I just want to say this aside, just to tell you the magnitude of the 
task that


he had. When Adolf Hitler was asked how he learned the power of hatred, 
he said he learned it by watching the Balkans, people who had come to 
Vienna, settled there in some ghettos, and he saw how they interacted 
among themselves in a very, very bitter way. That gives you a flavor 
for the attitudes of people in the region.

They came to the table in Dayton. Richard Holbrooke understood, he 
put himself in the shoes of each of these rivals, and was able to forge 
an agreement. It was quite historic. Again, the force of his 
determination was key to securing peace, restoring hope, and saving 
lives. It was really monumental. It is thought that his work in the 
Balkans saved thousands of lives.

Today, as the resolution states, Congress recognizes him for the 
monumental contributions he has made to United States national 
security, humanitarian causes, and peaceful resolutions of 
international conflict.

Again, all of us who have worked with him admired his great intellect 
and tenacity to resolve conflict. When we got news of his passing, 
which was shocking to all of us, we immediately flew a flag over the 
Capitol that evening in his name. How appropriate--this great patriot--
how appropriate that there would be a flag flying in his name over the 
Capitol of the United States. I think that is a tremendous, tremendous 
tribute.

I hope it is a comfort to Kati, our dear friend--many of us are 
personal friends of the Holbrookes--to his children, to their children 
and to the many who loved him that so many people in our country and 
throughout the world mourn their loss with a deep, deep sadness and 
that we are praying for them at this sad time.

