---
---

# None
## `9df17e2e9156d5a6826e9b4d90986e71`
`Ms. STABENOW — 4 October 2007`

---


Ms. STABENOW. Before the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts


leaves the floor, I thank him for his leadership in so many areas but 
none more important than advocating for health care and for the 
children of this country. As he has said numerous times, we are 
spending $330 million a day in Iraq and we have come together in a 
bipartisan way to say children should be receiving $19 million for 
health care; $19 million for children's health care in the United 
States for working families versus $330 million for Iraq.

I thank the Senator from Massachusetts for his voice. There is no one 
stronger or more passionate or more effective on this issue.

Also, before speaking further about health care, I thank our leaders 
on this very important appropriations bill in front of us, our 
Commerce-Justice-Science bill which Senator Mikulski has led so 
effectively, along with her ranking member, Senator Shelby. When we 
talk about changing the direction of the priorities of this country, 
this particular appropriations bill does that. Under the leadership of 
the chairwoman, we are investing in community policing, we are beefing 
up the FBI, we are dealing with drug enforcement, we are doing those 
things to keep our communities safe every day. I am very proud to 
support her efforts in changing the direction of this country, to 
focus, among other things, on keeping Americans safe and investing in 
science and research and opportunities for jobs for the future.















 Health Care Reform


I particularly come to the floor today to speak about affordable, 
accessible health care--quality health care for Americans. Access to 
affordable health care is one of the most critical issues facing 
families of America, facing businesses of America. There is not a 
meeting I go to--whether it is with seniors, with families, with those 
advocating for children, with small businesses, big businesses--the No. 
1 issue folks want to talk about is the skyrocketing cost of health 
care, health insurance premiums going up, and the difficulty in getting 
health insurance. They want us to come together, our Federal 
Government, our Congress, our President, and find a solution to 
something that is a national crisis.

Health care should not be a commodity. It should not be just an 
issue. It is a public issue, a public service, a public health issue. 
We are all paying the price for not having addressed this sooner.

According to a recent study by ''Families USA,'' approximately 90 
million Americans have gone without health insurance for all or part of 
the last 2 years. These numbers are even higher than we had thought. 
Certainly in my home State of Michigan, where we are seeing the middle-
class families across Michigan being squeezed on all sides--folks who 
have worked in manufacturing and continue to work in manufacturing, the 
industries that created the middle class of this country--they find 
themselves being squeezed, being asked to take less pay in order to 
continue to have health care for themselves and their families; more 
and more people falling into the category of those losing their jobs, 
therefore losing their health insurance. What is most amazing and 
important for us to understand, of the 90 million people who have not 
been able to get health insurance for all or part of the last 2 years, 
70 percent of them are working full time.

This is a crisis and it is not acceptable in the greatest country in 
the world. To add insult to injury, we in America pay twice as much of 
our GDP for health care as any other industrialized country. We are 
paying twice as much, and 90 million people in the last 2 years were 
without health insurance for part or all of that time. This has to 
change. It is long past needing to change. This has to change soon.

That is why I am so pleased to be joining a bipartisan group of 
Senators in making a commitment to universal health coverage. I am very 
proud to be cosponsoring the Healthy Americans Act, which has been 
championed by Ron Wyden, my friend and colleague from Oregon, and his 
partner, Senator Bennett from Utah. It is important that we tackle this 
issue in a bipartisan way so both parties, so all of us, are invested 
in making the changes we need to make the health care system work for 
everybody, for all Americans--for our businesses, for our families, 
individuals, small towns, big cities. We have to get a handle on this. 
I am so appreciative of the focus and the leadership Senator Wyden is 
providing, in bringing all of us together to do that.

There is a sense of urgency that is needed and we are coming together 
to provide that sense of urgency, to say we hear it from those around 
the country and we are rolling up our sleeves and getting to work. This 
legislation is a good place for us to start, for us to develop a real 
solution to the health care crisis. The bill's main goal is making sure 
each American gets health insurance that is equal at least to what 
every Member of Congress gets. I would think as employees of the 
American people, the employer should be asking for nothing less.

It creates a strong insurance regulatory system that protects 
families against discrimination based on preexisting conditions. This 
is absolutely critical. If we are talking about a universal system that 
is privately administered, then you cannot have insurance companies 
cherry picking, covering only certain people, saying if you have some 
kind of a preexisting condition, you cannot get insurance. That is not 
going to work and this bill changes that.

It is critical that there be accountability and oversight and the 
regulation that is needed to make sure everyone can afford to get the 
insurance they need for themselves and their families. This is the goal 
all of us as Members of the Senate should be behind. I do understand 
this is a work in progress. I come to this bill with important 
improvements that I believe need to be done in order for me to 
ultimately support a final bill. As the process moves forward, it is 
important that certain critical improvements be made, such as people 
who currently have good insurance plans and want to keep them should be 
able to do so. We should not do anything to undermine employer-
sponsored health insurance for those who choose to keep it.

Second, and this is so important, we are seeing with so many people 
in Michigan now, and others in the auto industry, any voluntary 
employee benefit association, or so-called VEBA, that results from a 
collective bargaining agreement must get the same tax treatment they do 
under current law.

Three, I believe there should be a choice of a public plan for health 
insurance, such as Medicare, to compete with private sector plans. When 
we are talking about a choice of private plans or keeping what you 
have, we should also add to that a public choice, so people have real 
competition and real choice. That is something I am advocating for.

I mentioned earlier that we need to make sure whatever is done 
involves the best possible consumer protections; that whatever we are 
doing in terms of private sector insurance, they should need to take 
allcomers. They should not be able to pick and choose who gets 
insurance based on preexisting conditions. There are other important 
regulatory mechanisms that need to be in place.

Finally, it is critical that there be a real safety net for low-
income families who are now on Medicaid or similar programs. I strongly 
believe we cannot keep the status quo when it comes to health care. We 
cannot do it anymore. We cannot do it. It is affecting every part of 
our economy.

Rapidly growing health care costs are literally costing us jobs in 
America. When we look at good-paying manufacturing jobs in this 
country, I invite you to come to Michigan and talk to people who have 
worked hard all their lives, who have built a good life for their 
family, who are now, because of health care costs, losing their jobs.

American businesses are at a serious disadvantage in competing with 
businesses around the world that do not have to pay the same costs for 
health care. Our workers are being asked to take pay cuts in order to 
keep their coverage. Too many Americans find themselves without basic 
health insurance in the greatest country in the world. Shame on us. It 
is time to get this right.

It is past time for every American to have access to the health care 
they need and deserve. Let me say as part of that, we have shown what 
we can do as a Senate, in a bipartisan way, when we


come together and we have a focus on the goal of covering children and 
working families with health insurance.

Despite the President's veto, which is, to me, unexplainable, given 
the overwhelming need and support of American families, and even from 
business and labor, and health care providers coming together on a 
bipartisan basis here, it is mind boggling to me that the President 
would veto that bill. We have shown what we can do together.

I am so pleased to be working with my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle, as well as with Senator Wyden, certainly Senator Bennett, 
but I want to particularly say I am proud to be coming to this process 
and this legislation at the same time as my good friend, Senator Chuck 
Grassley, who has shown such courage. He and Senator Hatch are heroes 
in terms of advocating for children's health care and showing the 
courage to stand up to their President. It is not an easy thing to do. 
But to stand up and tell the truth, to debunk what has been said as 
inaccurate, it is something that truly everyone in this Chamber and 
around the country respects and admires.

Coming to this legislation with Senator Grassley is also something 
that is important to me. I believe in addition to making sure that 10 
million children have health insurance they need, it is time to then 
take the next step--universal health care for every person in America. 
I believe health care should be a right in the United States of 
America, not a privilege.

It is time to get this done. I am hopeful this legislation will serve 
as a starting point for Democrats and Republicans to accomplish what 
the vast majority of Americans want: to be able to afford good health 
insurance for themselves and their families.

I yield the floor.