# None
## `9dfa09253ed30fe1e3771c2f4eb01e12`
`Mr. KAUFMAN â€” 14 July 2009`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I wish to thank the members of the Armed 
Services Committee for their tireless work on this bill. I thank 
Chairman Levin and Senator McCain for their amendment to strike $1.75 
billion in unnecessary funding for the F-22 aircraft.

I strongly support those provisions of the Defense authorization bill 
which aim to support critical defense spending priorities such as 
providing fair compensation and health care to members of the Armed 
Forces and their families, enhancing the capability of our troops to 
conduct successful counterinsurgency operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, improving our ability to counter nontraditional and 
asymmetric threats and terminating troubled and wasteful military 
spending programs in favor of those which are deemed more efficient and 
effective.

Also, I strongly support the recommendation of Secretary Gates that 
we must rebalance the Defense budget in order to institutionalize and 
enhance our capabilities to fight current wars as well as likely future 
threats. As events in Iraq and Afghanistan have demonstrated, the 
military challenges currently before us are unlike conventional wars of 
the past. I am pleased this bill provides the resources necessary to 
protect our troops in counterinsurgency missions by providing 
additional funding for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles or 
MRAPs; U.S. Special Operations Command, or SOCOM, and the Joint 
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization, as well as supporting 
the vital train and equip mission for Afghan security forces. This 
training is an essential prerequisite for achieving stability and 
security in Afghanistan and succeeding in our ongoing counterinsurgency 
mission.

These and other provisions of the bill aim to institutionalize many 
of the administration's recommendations regarding future Defense 
priorities based on the conclusion of military officials--including 
Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen, and General Petraeus--that irregular 
warfare is not just a short-term challenge; rather, it is a long-term 
reality that requires realignment of both military strategy and 
spending. As Secretary Gates has said, this rebalancing need not come 
at the expense of conventional weapon programs, which are deeply 
embedded in the Department of Defense, in its bureaucracy, in the 
defense industry, and in the Congress. At the same time, we must move 
away from funding Cold War-era weapons programs with an eye toward the 
future and accept that threat requirements have changed. This requires 
difficult decisions, sacrifice, and change, such as ending the F-22 
production line which the White House and the Department of Defense


have concluded will save valuable resources that could be more usefully 
employed.


As President Obama explained yesterday in a letter to the Senate, 
this determination was not made casually. It was the result of several 
analyses conducted by the Department of Defense regarding future U.S. 
military needs and an estimate of likely future capabilities of our 
adversaries.

The F-22 has never flown over Iraq or Afghanistan because it is not 
the most efficient or effective aircraft to meet the current needs of 
the military. Its readiness has been questioned, it has proven too 
costly, and continued production will come at the expense of more 
critical defense priorities. I say critical defense priorities. But 
this debate is really not about the future of the F-22. This is just 
the first test as to whether we are ready to end unnecessary spending 
and rebalance the defense budget to better reflect the reality of 
counterinsurgency missions.

Today I voice my support for the Levin-McCain amendment which 
terminates procurement of additional F-22 fighter aircraft when the 
current contract ends at 187 jets.

In December 2004, the Department of Defense concluded that 183 F-22s 
were sufficient to meet our military needs, especially given the future 
role of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which is a half generation newer 
aircraft and more capable in a number of areas, including electronic 
warfare and combating enemy air defenses.

Ending the F-22 production line at 187 meets the needs of our 
military and allows us to purchase equipment deemed more efficient and 
effective. According to Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen:




 If the Air Force is forced to buy additional F-22s beyond 


 what has been requested, it will come at the expense of other 


 . . . priorities--and require deferring capabilities in the 


 areas we believe are much more critical for our national 


 defense.


Some of my colleagues have argued that ending the procurement of F-
22s will have a significant impact in terms of jobs. Of course, I share 
the concern of keeping jobs and am focused, first and foremost, on 
preserving jobs and job creation. At the same time, however, I believe 
job losses incurred in the F-22 line will be offset by an increased F-
35 production. Moreover, I agree with my colleague, Senator McCain, 
that ''in these difficult economic times, we cannot afford business as 
usual. We cannot afford to continue to purchase weapons systems that 
are not absolutely vital . . . '' to our national security interests.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Levin-McCain 
amendment which reaffirms America's commitments to our troops by ending 
wasteful spending and enhancing military readiness. This reflects the 
sound and bipartisan judgment of two U.S. Presidents, two Secretaries 
of Defense, three Joint Chiefs of Staff, as well as the current 
Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force. I hope we can pass a 
Defense authorization bill that supports the sound judgment of our 
military leaders and President and avoid wasteful spending of precious 
national resources.