# CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-62)
## `9dfe2c5077f7a171553e7b3e42a0616a`
`Mr. EMANUEL — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Madam Speaker, President Kennedy once said, To govern is 
to choose. $700 billion for the war in Iraq but no health care for 
America's children. $50 billion in subsidies for big oil companies, but 
no to health care for America's children. $8 billion in no-bid 
contracts and lost in waste, fraud and abuse in Iraq, but no to 
America's children. Billions of dollars for schools and roads and 
clinics in Iraq, but no to health care for America's children.

Today, the President told millions of children and their families 
that they're on the bottom of his priority list.

Now, I used to work in the White House. I know it can be quite 
isolating. I just never knew it was this isolating. When 45 Republican 
House Members, 18 Republican Senate Members, Governors who are 
Republicans, Democrats come together, build this type of consensus, 
it's time for the President to see what the American people see, that 
this is the right health care.

You have the same health care for you and your families that we are 
trying to provide for these 10 million children whose parents work 
full-time.

Delores Sweeney in my district works in an insurance company, has 
three children, and she's trying to get the health care for her 
children that she cannot get in the private insurance place.

This is right for Delores Sweeney. It's right for your kids. Let's 
make it right for America. Vote ''yes.''