---
---

# TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN DREW JENSEN
## `9e00ee89fde1cdfd7da7d113972226ff`
`Ms. HOOLEY — 20 September 2007`

---


Ms. HOOLEY. Madam Speaker, let us mourn the loss of an American Hero.

Just a short time ago, Captain Drew Jensen succumbed to wounds he 
received in Iraq.

Drew was critically wounded in combat on May 7, 2007 in the Diyala 
Province while serving with the 5th Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment 
north of Baghdad.

Captain Jensen was an officer in the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry--it is 
more commonly known as the ''Stryker Brigade.''

Forty-eight young soldiers left Fort Lewis and never returned to 
duty. The Strykers were sent into the toughest neighborhood in Iraq. 
Their mission was to meet Al Qaeda on its ground and take it back.

It is with a heavy heart the Pacific Northwest welcomes home the 
Brigade: they served honorably; they left Iraq better than they found 
it, but the cost was high--the losses irreplaceable.

Captain Jensen knew from an early age he wanted to serve his country: 
he was a soldier that lived and died with courage, integrity, and 
selflessness.

As a young man he worked hard and secured for himself the opportunity 
to attend West Point.

After graduation in 2002, Drew approached the Army with absolute 
commitment.

Captain Jensen served two combat tours in Iraq--knowing that his men 
depended upon his willingness to lead from the front and fulfill the 
call of our Nation.

At home, Stacia did her best to soldier on. An Army family knows the 
risks of combat. She supported Drew on and off the battlefield through 
some of the toughest circumstances, the harshest moments any family can 
encounter.

I ask that we take pause: cease the frenzied activities of modernity 
for just a moment and reflect upon the sacrifices we are asking of 
young soldiers like Drew Jensen.

Drew was a casualty of war: he served with distinction, gave his last 
full measure of devotion, and ultimately sacrificed his life--and his 
family's future--to answer the call of his men in mortal combat.

Leaders are not born, they are not made--leaders such as Drew Jensen 
choose.

Drew saw a problem and fixed it. He saw that his men needed help, and 
he helped. He was a good officer that recognized the burdens of 
command--an American that made a choice to be a part of something 
larger--to live a life that mattered.

My colleagues: the legacy of Captain Drew Jensen is a lesson for us 
all.

Drew made a choice to serve his country; Drew made a choice to serve 
in Iraq; Drew made a choice to make his community a better place.

There are no words that can heal the wounds of our hearts today; 
Oregon is far dimmer than it was with Drew a part of our community.

Forever changed are the lives of Stacia, the Jensen Family, and the 
community of Damascus.

We cannot undo any of the choices that brought us to this moment 
here, today.

But we can recognize the courage and bravery of one of our own.

We can celebrate the life and legacy of Drew Jensen.

And we can keep his spirit alive through remembering all that he 
was--all that he meant--all that he believed in.

Let us renew our commitment to making this America, this Oregon, this 
community a place worthy of such sacrifice.

Let us begin today.
