# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `9e1a90280399814e12db8c53b76594b6`
`Ms. SNOWE â€” 12 March 2008`

---


Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of an 
amendment that my friend and colleague from Arkansas, Senator Lincoln, 
and I have offered to the budget resolution, which would provide an 
additional $50 million to the Veterans Benefits Administration, VBA, 
allowing our Nation to continue investing in the programs and resources 
necessary so that


our courageous veterans may receive the benefits that they have earned 
in a timely and efficient manner.

Every year, hundreds of thousands of America's finest look to the VBA 
to process their claims for disability compensation, pensions, and 
other entitlements due them as a result of their unselfish and 
steadfast service to our Nation. However, according to a VBA Workload 
Report from February 16, 2008, the total number of pending compensation 
and pension claims once again increased to 663,319, up from 626,429 
this time last year and 517,574 from 2006.Additionally, the VA is 
currently projecting claims receipts to increase to approximately 
872,000 in fiscal year 2009 and cautions that ongoing hostilities in 
both Iraq and Afghanistan may further burden the workload.

Furthermore, although the VA attempted to reduce the average number 
of days that claims were pending from a high of 182 days at the end of 
fiscal year 2001 to 111 days at the end of fiscal year 2003, the 
average age of pending claims has crept back up to 132 days by the end 
of fiscal year 2007.

Despite this unfortunate trend, we must not discount the initial 
steps that Congress has taken in order to alleviate many of the 
challenges facing our Nation's veterans within the VBA system. The 
first crucial step over the past year was to improve the management of 
the VBA, by providing welcome resources to boost the number of claims-
processing staff, essential to curbing the backlog and improving the 
timeliness of the claims process. In fact, at this time last year, 
Senator Lincoln and I introduced an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 
Budget resolution to address staff and resource shortages at the VBA by 
providing $64.5 million in order to hire an additional 600 disability 
claims processors and $4.1 million to hire an additional 32 processors 
at the Board of Veterans Appeals, BVA, to expedite the adjudication 
process to acceptable levels.

Overall, the President's fiscal year 2009 budget request funds nearly 
11,000 full-time equivalent employees working on compensation and 
pension claims, and represents an additional 2,600 positions, or 32 
percent above fiscal year 2007.

Notwithstanding the recent actions that I have outlined and the VA's 
expectation that productivity will expand in the long term, veterans 
continue to endure lengthy delays in order to receive their benefits 
from the VA--and this is simply unacceptable. Therefore, I believe it 
is vital for the VBA to maintain the resources necessary to seek and 
implement fundamental reforms that will help bolster recent gains in 
manpower in order to enhance both productivity and efficiency 
throughout the disability claims process. That is why Senator Lincoln 
and I have introduced an amendment that will provide the VBA with an 
additional $50 million in funding to initiate innovative pilot programs 
that will decrease this unprecedented backlog of disability claims.

Given how integral disability payments are for veterans and their 
families, especially in a lagging economy, the VA has an undeniable 
responsibility to sustain an effective delivery system and look for 
solutions that honor our veterans' service. The funding provided within 
the Snowe-Lincoln amendment would allow the VBA to build upon recent 
efforts to streamline the claims process through such initiatives as 
amplifying staff training, improving data collection, or streamlining 
data transmission.

As we continue to debate this year's budget resolution, I applaud the 
Senate Committee on the Budget and its strong commitment to veterans, 
by providing $48.2 billion in discretionary funding within the budget 
resolution for fiscal year 2009, which is equal to $3.2 billion above 
the President's request and $5.2 billion more from fiscal year 2008 
budget levels. Certainly, this increase in veterans' health care 
funding is timely as Congress strives to address an ever-growing 
contingency of new veterans, who will transition from active duty into 
the VA system during the upcoming year, while an aging general veteran 
population continues its increased demand for acute medical and long-
term-care services.

It is profoundly imperative that we in Congress fulfill our 
obligation to America's best and bravest, whose selfless sacrifices on 
behalf of us and the freedoms we cherish are immeasurable. I urge my 
colleagues to support the Snowe-Lincoln amendment, which will help the 
VBA take the additional steps towards realizing our nation's pledge to 
give our veterans the compensation and benefits they have rightfully 
earned.