# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1332, SMALL BUSINESS LENDING  IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `9e1db5d4171c11479dd8b3ebbea567a7`
`Mr. ARCURI — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

House Resolution 330 provides for consideration of H.R. 1332, the 
Small Business Lending Improvements Act of 2007 under a structured 
rule. The rule provides 1 hour of general debate controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Small 
Business. The rule makes in order the substitute reported by the 
Committee on Small Business as an original bill for purpose of 
amendment. The rule makes in order all four germane amendments that 
were submitted to the Rules Committee. And finally, the rule provides 
one motion to recommit, with or without instructions.

Madam Speaker, this bipartisan legislation, crafted under the 
leadership of my colleague from New York, chairwoman of the Small 
Business Committee, Ms. Velazquez, maintains support of a wide range of 
organizations, including the Independent Community Bankers of America, 
the American Dental Association, the American Veterans, and American 
College of Physicians.

Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy. In my home 
State of New York, 99 percent of all businesses are small businesses, 
and they employ 52 percent of the nonfarm, private sector workforce. In 
2005, an estimated 62,000 new small firms began operations in New York, 
creating $77 billion in entrepreneurial income for the State of New 
York.

In my district and across this country, Americans depend on small 
businesses to drive the economy and provide essential everyday 
services. Sadly, it is a constant struggle for many of these 
entrepreneurs just to keep the lights on, as larger companies continue 
to push out the mom and pop businesses in the cities and towns across 
the country.

My constituents in upstate New York have experienced this loss 
firsthand. I am proud to have the opportunity, as a member of the 
distinguished Rules Committee, to manage this rule for such an 
important piece of legislation for our Nation's small businesses.

The Small Business Lending Improvements Act will help strengthen our 
Nation's small businesses by updating and streamlining two of the Small 
Business Administration's largest financing programs, the 7(a) and 504 
loan programs.

This bill will make the 7(a) program more affordable for both 
borrowers and lenders by reducing fees and increasing the SBA guarantee 
on 7(a) loans. It will also modernize the 504 Certified Development 
Company Program by improving the ability of CDCs to liquidate defaulted 
loans and by requiring their local community leaders be included on 
every CDC board of directors. And it will make permanent the Community 
Express Program, providing increased access to capital for socially and 
economically disadvantaged small business owners.

This bill also establishes two important new 7(a) loan programs, one 
to encourage private health care providers to establish practices in 
federally designated Health Professional Shortage Areas, and one to 
assist our Nation's veterans in starting or expanding a small business.

Despite an abundance of health professionals, New York State has 102 
communities designated by the Federal Government as Health Professional 
Shortage Areas. Only 16 percent of the physicians practicing in New 
York provide services in these medically underserved areas. According 
to the Department of Health and Human Services, the district I am 
privileged to represent is short nearly 70 dental, primary care and 
mental health practitioners. Further, a handful of counties I represent 
don't even have a resident OB/GYN, forcing thousands of women to travel 
40 to 50 miles just to seek routine care.

Madam Speaker, this problem is not confined to upstate New York. Over 
60 million Americans currently live in medically underserved areas 
across the country. The Small Business Lending Improvements Act will 
address this critical shortage by establishing a 7(a) loan program that 
reduces lender and borrower fees by half and increases the government 
guarantee to 90 percent of the doctors and dentists serving Health 
Professional Shortage Areas.

These financial incentives are critical to encouraging private health 
care providers to establish practices in underserved areas and to 
expand access to quality health care for millions of Americans.

Madam Speaker, this legislation will also ensure that our returning 
servicemen and women are afforded every opportunity to start or expand 
a small business by establishing a dedicated 7(a) loan program for 
veterans.

An estimated 900 of New York's Reservists currently deployed in Iraq 
and Afghanistan are self-employed, and another 100 are considered key 
employees within small businesses. The absence of these men and women 
during 12- or 15-month deployments often forces the small businesses 
they own to operate at greatly reduced levels, at times declining to 
near startup conditions by the time the owner returns. An absence due 
to deployment is most detrimental to the smallest towns where many 
Reserve and Guard members operate businesses essential to the 
community.

The Small Business Lending Improvements Act will help address the 
obstacles faced by small business owners deployed in Iraq and 
Afghanistan by eliminating borrower and lender fees and increasing to 
90 percent the government guarantee for loans to veterans under the 
7(a) program.

According to American Veterans National Commander Thomas C. McGriff, 
''These lenders fees, which can amount to thousands of dollars, are due 
up front and can deter entrepreneurs from seeking financial assistance 
altogether.''

Madam Speaker, by creating a lender structure tailored specifically 
for veterans, this bill will encourage entrepreneurship and help to 
repay the enormous debt we owe to our brave men and women in uniform.



Madam Speaker, it is our Nation's small businesses that keep our 
Nation's economy moving full speed ahead. Let's take this opportunity 
to provide further encouragement for the creation of new small 
businesses and for our Nation's existing small business owners to 
expand

I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation and encourage my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.