---
---

# ARTICLE BY THOMAS M. RUYLE
## `9e23c950ca2384c72703995b2da94579`
`Mr. SKELTON — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Madam Speaker, Thomas M. Ruyle wrote an excellent 
article, entitled ''Army Stretched Beyond Limits'', which appeared in 
the Sedalia Democrat on April 12, 2007. This article accurately 
describes the current state of our Army and the challenges it faces. I 
wish to share Mr. Ruyle's writing with the rest of the chamber:








 [From the Sedalia Democrat, Apr. 12, 2007]












Army Stretched Beyond Limits














(By Thomas M. Ruyle)




 The Army is broken.





 Defense Secretary Robert Gates' announcement yesterday that 


 all active-duty soldiers currently serving in Iraq would have 


 their rotations extended by three months is the latest 


 evidence that our military cannot meet the demands placed on 


 it.



 Furthermore, the Pentagon this week alerted four National 


 Guard brigades for a second tour in Iraq, long before those 


 units have had five years at home since their last 


 deployment, as policy dictates.



 Some active-duty units, such as the 3rd Brigade, 3rd 


 Infantry Division, are serving their third tour in Iraq in 


 four years.



 They recently returned to Iraq after a shortened rest and 


 re-training period. Newer soldiers have, in many cases, not 


 had the time to train with their new comrades before being 


 sent into battle.



 Reserve units that have already served are woefully short 


 on equipment and ammunition to properly retrain, either for 


 the maw of Iraq or defending America itself. The Marine Corps 


 recently announced that jungle training--a Corps mainstay--


 will be suspended as that service is forced to concentrate 


 all resources on training for Iraq.



 In the event of a major conflict erupting between the U.S. 


 and another nation--Iran, North Korea and Pakistan come 


 immediately to mind--America's ground forces, particularly 


 the Army, are in no way, shape or form capable of responding 


 appropriately.



 Meanwhile, the current administration--particularly the 


 vice president--continues to maintain that everything is 


 progressing as scheduled in Iraq, and that anyone who begs to 


 differ is a defeatist or unpatriotic. Trouble is, there was 


 no schedule and little planning involved in the Iraq debacle.



 The administration went to Iraq on a platform of lies, 


 failed to heed the warnings of senior military officers and 


 other warfare experts, and did not react appropriately when 


 things started going bad in Iraq shortly after the invasion.



 Indeed, under Donald Rumsfeld, the defense establishment 


 followed the 'script' rather than act to prevent the looming 


 realities that are obvious now.



 Since 2001, America's military has been engaged full-time 


 in two separate wars: The War on Terrorism (primarily in 


 Afghanistan), and (since 2003) a second, unnecessary war that 


 has only begotten more terrorism, further destabilized the 


 Middle East and left America very vulnerable.



 As an Army National Guard veteran of the Iraq War, I've 


 seen firsthand the toll that a combat deployment will have on 


 a unit, its equipment, soldiers and, their families. It takes 


 years for a unit to properly recover and be ready to deploy 


 again.



 Sending units back to Iraq on a speeded-up schedule is a, 


 disservice to not only the soldiers and families affected, 


 but America's long-term strategy (if there is one) in Iraq as 


 well as America itself.



 All the while, there has been no effort to expand the 


 military or adequately address the equipment shortcomings of 


 units after serving in the harsh climate of the Middle East.



 The recent spate of Guard alerts, tour extensions and 


 shortened rest periods are indicative of a problem that the 


 Pentagon and administration utterly refuse to acknowledge: 


 The United States Army is broken, and it will take billions 


 of dollars over at least a decade to bring the Army back up 


 to a fully competent readiness level.
