---
---

# None
## `9e4589f5a762a2df086cee68fa202967`
`Mr. GINGREY — 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, my 
friend from Minnesota, not just Representative John Kline, but Colonel 
John Kline of the United States Marine Corps. Representative Kline, you 
mentioned a number of great leaders. I consider you among them.

It is fitting that we do this during this hour tonight to pay a 
special tribute to General Peter Pace and General Petraeus, Admiral 
Fallon and General Odierno, all of those you have mentioned. This is 
our chain of command. These are the brave men and women that we talk 
about, as you just referenced, when we go to those service academy days 
and we look at those youngsters in the 10th or 11th grade and they are 
with their parents and thinking about a service academy. And I am 
saying to them, as I am sure my colleagues tonight in this colloquy 
have done, you say, ''You know, young man, young lady, you could be the 
next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or you can be the Central 
Commander.''

It is just when you look and you say that, you want to feel that they 
know that they are going to be respected, and that Members of Congress 
are not going to denigrate them in a public way.

I think that is a very, very disappointing thing that has been 
occurring, Mr. Speaker. In fact, a Member recently was quoted as saying 
that this Member felt that General Pace was guilty of dereliction of 
duty because of his support for the Bush's Iraq policy.

Now, President Bush, like him or not, is the Commander in Chief, and 
if General Pace did not support the Commander in Chief, then that, I 
think, Colonel Kline, you can explain it better than I can, you talk 
about a dereliction of duty, but I am proud to be here tonight.

I thank the gentleman for giving me a little bit of time. I know we 
have other Members who are colleagues on the Armed Services Committee. 
We have already heard from a couple of them who are veterans and who 
have sons that are serving. I wish I could say that I was a veteran.

So I am very proud of my colleagues. I am proud of these leaders of 
our military. Especially I want to say to General Pace, Mr. Speaker, 
you know, one of my favorite country songs by Garth Brooks is ''Some of 
God's Greatest Gifts Are Unanswered Prayers.'' If the General was 
praying to get reconfirmed as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
maybe this will be God's answer to him: ''General, you have served 40 
years. You are a four-star general. You have done a great job for this 
country, and we salute you.'' Tonight I want to salute General Peter 
Pace.


I yield back to the gentleman from Minnesota.