---
---

# HABEAS CORPUS
## `9e48d0f90bb5328192175757ace93278`
`Mr. DURBIN — 12 June 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. I say in response, through the Chair to the Senator from 
Colorado, if we don't extend these Federal renewable energy tax 
credits, America could lose 76,000 jobs in the wind industry, 40,000 
jobs in the solar industry. The bill the Republicans refuse to allow us 
to bring to the floor to even debate provides $8.8 billion for research 
and development investment. This year alone, over 27,000 U.S. 
businesses would use this tax credit to benefit companies in computers 
and electronics, chemical manufacturing, information services, and 
scientific R&D services. The list goes on and on. The Renewable Energy 
and Job Creation Act, which they would not allow us to bring to the 
floor to debate this week, includes $18 billion in incentives for clean 
electricity, alternative transportation fuels, carbon sequestration, 
and energy efficiency.

I say to my friend from Colorado through the Chair that this is 
nothing new. So far, during this session of Congress, the Republicans 
have engaged in 76 filibusters as of today. The record in the Senate 
for any 2-year period of time was 57 filibusters. A filibuster is every 
Senator's right to stop any bill, any nomination, for an indefinite 
period of time, and that filibuster can only be broken if 60 Senators 
vote to break it. It is called a cloture motion. We tried three times 
this week to break Republican filibusters, first on a bill dealing with 
the price of gasoline to try to bring it down and make it more 
affordable. The Republicans filibustered it. When we had our vote, we 
couldn't find 60 votes because they wouldn't cross the aisle to join 
the Democrats in breaking the filibuster and debating specific ways of 
bringing down the price of gasoline.

We followed that with a measure to deal with, as I have said here, 
tax incentives for the right energy decisions for our future. The 
Republicans initiated another filibuster. We called it for a vote. We 
failed to come up with 60 votes again because we only had nine 
Republican Senators who would cross--well, I think the number was seven 
Republican Senators who would cross the aisle and join us. We needed 
more. Out of 49, we needed about 10 or 15. We didn't get those. So that 
bill to create incentives for businesses and individuals to make the 
right energy decisions was defeated by another Republican filibuster.

The last thing we considered was related to another program. It had 
nothing to do with energy but a lot to do with health care. We wanted 
to make certain the Medicare Program continued to reimburse the doctors 
and medical professionals who provide critical care for 40 million 
elderly and disabled Americans. The Bush administration wants to cut 
their compensation by 10 percent or more. I think it is unfair. These 
men and women are not being paid as much as others, and they are 
providing critical health services to a lot of needy people. The Bush 
administration, which is no fan of Medicare or Social Security, wanted 
to cut their reimbursement. Well, they will cut that reimbursement and 
fewer doctors will participate in the program and seniors will have a 
more difficult time getting their care.

So we started to bring to the floor a measure that would restore the 
pay for doctors helping patients under Medicare and we also provided 
some incentives in there for better practices to reduce overall costs 
to the Medicare Program. We paid for it by looking at the Medicare 
Advantage Program. The Medicare Advantage Program allows private 
insurance companies to offer Medicare benefits. The Republicans have 
always favored that, saying that creates a competitive atmosphere. 
Medicare competes against private health insurance when it comes to 
basic Medicare coverage. As a footnote, it is ironic that they would 
welcome this kind of competition from Medicare, but fought us tooth and 
nail when we tried to bring the same competition when it came to 
prescription drugs. Nevertheless, we said this Medicare Advantage 
Program costs too much money for the services provided. We have had 
expert testimony that it is about 13 percent more expensive for private 
health insurance companies to offer the same benefits as the Medicare 
Program. We took savings from that program and paid for the increase in 
pay for doctors under Medicare.

We didn't add to the deficit. I suppose that is why the Republicans, 
by and large, have turned on us. They don't want to pay for the actions 
they bring to the floor. They don't want to offset the costs of 
programs or tax cuts by actually balancing the books. They want to 
continue to add to our deficit.

The vote came up today, and nine Republicans crossed the aisle to 
vote for us. Overwhelmingly, they represented Republican Senators who 
are afraid they are going to lose in the election in November. They 
came over to join us and vote for our position. The Republican 
leadership was careful not to let too many come over. So at the end of 
the day, we were unable to bring this Medicare bill to the floor for 
debate.

So here we are at the end of a full week of the U.S. Senate, in 
Washington, DC, in our capital, on Capitol Hill, and we are beset by a 
world about us in turmoil, with the war in Iraq; we have a nation that 
is torn by energy prices, gasoline prices, and diesel prices; we have 
Americans concerned about their health care, and when we try three 
different times to bring to the floor of the Senate measures that 
address these challenges, each and every time the Republicans answered 
with a filibuster and stopped us from acting.

The sad reality is that the GOP, the Grand Old Party, has become a 
''Graveyard of Progress.'' I am afraid that is what GOP stands for 
these days. They cannot face the possibility of change. They are 
frightened by it, determined to stop it. They have stopped it with 76 
filibusters, which is a recordbreaking number of filibusters in the 
Senate.

Well, we could not come up with 60 votes to turn that around; there 
are not enough Democratic Senators. The final word will be in the hands 
of the voters in November, on November 4. They can decide whether they 
want change in Washington, change in the Senate, or more of the same. 
They are going to have that opportunity in a series of elections. I 
hope those who follow this debate and believe this Government, working 
in a constructive bipartisan way, can achieve good things, will 
remember that when they go to the polls in November.

Let me say as well, Mr. President, that I have watched this 
Presidential campaign carefully because my colleague from Illinois, 
Senator Obama, is now, as they say, the ''presumptive Democratic 
nominee'' for the Presidential nomination. A long campaign awaits us, 
almost 5 months. Senator McCain is a substantial and formidable 
opponent in this election campaign. But make no mistake, the voters are 
going to have a clear choice in this election about who will represent 
them in the White House for the next 4 years.

We are also initiating the first national dialog on health care 
reform in 15 years. For 7/1/2/ years, the Bush administration has 
summarily ignored the major problems facing America. When President 
Bush gets up in the morning and looks out the window of the White 
House, all he sees is Iraq. For 7/1/2/ years, that has been the focus 
of his attention and the centerpiece of his energy. I will tell you, 
there are many other things this President ignored at the peril of our 
great Nation. His economic policies have brought to us a sorry state.

Last Friday, we had the terrible announcement about a dramatic 
increase in the price of crude oil, an increase in the price of 
gasoline, a substantial increase in unemployment, and a 350-point loss 
in the Dow Jones, in the stock market. It was a sad and gloomy Friday 
across America from an economic viewpoint. But even those large 
numbers--the big numbers that come to us at the lead of any newscast 
and on the front page of the paper don't tell the true and complete 
story.

The Senator from Vermont invited his constituents to talk about 
challenges they face as families all across his State. He has told me 
and our colleagues--and has spoken on the floor


about it--that he was overwhelmed by the response. Ordinary people in 
Vermont--and I am sure those in Illinois are having a tough time--are 
struggling to pay for gasoline, for the increased cost of food. They 
understand utility bills are going to be challenging this summer to 
cool their homes, as we face a brutal summer in most parts of the 
country. They are scared to death, I know, in New England--because I 
visited there--of dramatic increases in the cost of home heating oil 
this winter. Those realities are translating into economic insecurity 
for some of the hardest working families in America.

If you just could consider what has happened under the Bush 
administration to the middle of the middle class in America. These are 
folks who are working hard every day, trying to raise families, are 
playing by the rules, and they are falling further and further behind. 
These are the ones, many times, who are losing their homes because of 
subprime mortgages and deceptions which led them to an indebtedness 
they could not handle, and now they face the loss of their home, one of 
their major assets, if not their only asset. They have transferred 
their debt onto credit cards as often as they can, but they reach a 
breaking point.

A friend of mine is on the risk committee for a major bank in this 
country. He told me that the balances on credit cards are going down 
because people realize they cannot pay any more and they cannot buy 
things they need. But the default on credit cards is going up, leading 
to even more bankruptcies. That is the reality.

President Bush doesn't understand that reality. His economic 
policies, which are supported by John McCain, are really based on one 
basic principle: cut tax rates for the wealthiest people in America. 
They continue to believe that if wealthy people have more money, 
somehow this will translate into a better quality of life for those 
working families and middle-class families who are struggling to 
survive. Well, 7/1/2/ years of that thinking led us to this point. 
These people, faced with the Bush economic policies, are struggling to 
get by.

The President doesn't understand the energy picture. Every 6 months, 
he makes a trip to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and is seen holding hands with 
the sheiks of Saudi Arabia, begging them to release more oil into the 
United States and bring prices down. But they give him a pat on the 
back and send him off with the very curt answer of ''no.'' They tell 
him time and again that they are not going to release more oil. They 
have plenty of customers around the world and they don't need the 
United States. That is the reality and totality of the Bush energy 
policy.

This President has yet to call in the CEOs of the major oil 
companies. In this country, these companies are reporting 
recordbreaking profits at the expense of families, businesses, farmers, 
and truckers. This President has yet to call them in and hold them 
accountable for what I consider to be pure greed when it comes to 
profit-taking. He won't call them in because, apparently, he believes 
that is the natural course of events, that some who are in a virtual 
monopoly position, providing energy and oil to this country, ought to 
have whatever profits they can reap at whatever cost to America's 
families and our future. I think the President is wrong.

There is another issue, the issue of health care. We know that under 
this President, more people have lost health insurance than ever in our 
history. People who had health insurance lost it because they lost a 
job or they could no longer afford it. Now they are completely 
vulnerable to any illness or diagnosis that could bring them down 
tomorrow and virtually destroy all of the savings they have. The status 
quo in health care in America isn't satisfactory. The American people 
know that. Despite President Bush's inaction, they want change.

Premiums for health insurance have been rising more than twice as 
fast as employees' wages, while this administration has been in power. 
The number of uninsured Americans has been increasing by more than a 
million people a year under President Bush. Each year, the United 
States spends about twice as much for health care per person as other 
developed nations. The closest nation in spending for health care to 
the United States per person, per capita, annually, is Luxembourg, 
which spends less than half of what we do. We spend about $7,000 per 
year on health care per person. The United States, despite all the 
money being spent, continues to score poorly on measures of the 
public's health, such as life expectancy and infant mortality.


The challenge for this country and for the American people is making 
quality health coverage available and affordable for all Americans. We 
must take steps to improve quality and make our health care system more 
efficient so that we can get the greatest value for every health care 
dollar we spend. We have to put our health care ideas on the table and 
start the real debate about change.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have put forward some 
ideas on health care reform. I applaud them for acknowledging the need 
to change, but I am concerned with the direction in which they want to 
take us.

One of their ideas is to create incentives for more people to buy 
health insurance in the individual insurance market. Those who support 
this idea talk about it in glowing terms. Think about it. They say you 
could choose your own health plan and keep your health plan when you 
change jobs. But they ignore the most important implication of that 
idea: You are on your own. Remember President Bush's famous ownership 
society, the ownership society that wants to privatize Social Security? 
Thank goodness that was rejected on a bipartisan basis. The model of 
the ownership society of President Bush and the philosophy behind this 
thinking is very basic: Just remember, we are all in this alone. That 
is their notion. It doesn't work. It doesn't work in life. It doesn't 
work in your family, in your community, or when it comes to health 
insurance. Anybody in a less-than-perfect health care situation doesn't 
want to be on their own. It is a place you end up when you have no 
option.

In most States, insurers are free to tell a person they won't cover 
them for a particular medical condition. To the cancer survivor, they 
can say: Congratulations for surviving cancer; we will cover you for 
everything else that might affect you but not for cancer. Or they can 
deny coverage altogether. Many of us in this Chamber would have trouble 
finding health insurance in the individual market, if it were 
available, and it might be too expensive. This would be a health 
insurance system the Republicans support that is a great idea for the 
young, healthy, and the wealthy but not for the rest of America. It 
would move our health insurance system in the wrong direction.

Those on the other side of the aisle are having trouble responding to 
these criticisms. They appear unwilling to require insurers to cover 
everybody, regardless of their health condition, or to require greater 
sharing of health costs between the young and the old and between the 
healthy and the sick. That would require Government regulation. They 
don't like to have the Government involved. They want the market to 
reach the conclusion. The market has already reached a conclusion when 
it comes to health care, which is that the cost of health care and 
coverage will increase every year, and it will cover less every year. 
That is what the market says, and that is what they accept.

They are caught in a dilemma because the free market insurance 
system, without reasonable regulation, means allowing health insurers 
to enroll the healthy and exclude the sick. To get out of this 
ideological quandary, they have proposed an idea: creating high-risk 
pools for everybody insurers don't want to cover. Insurers would 
probably like that idea, to take the people for whom it is most 
expensive and put them in a separate pool.

Today, high-risk pools exist on a small scale in 34 States. These 
State high-risk pools can serve as a life preserver for people who have 
nowhere else to turn in the current health insurance system, but they 
should not serve as a foundation of a reformed health system.

State high-risk pools have many shortcomings. They are not often able 
to cover everybody who can't find affordable health insurance. Premiums 
are way too high. In Illinois's high-risk pool, a 50-year-old woman 
would have to pay more than $800 a month in premiums for a policy with 
a $500 deductible. Benefits are often limited. With


these shortcomings, I cannot understand how these high-risk pools could 
be the bedrock of the Republican position when it comes to health care 
reform.

Some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle also want to 
allow insurers to choose which State insurance regulations they want to 
live by. Proponents say this is a way to let all insurers sell 
insurance nationwide. But if you follow this, you know that doesn't 
work. Without State regulation and basic State requirements on 
coverage, there is no guarantee of solvency and no guarantee of 
coverage when you get sick.

If enacted, these changes would move our system in the wrong 
direction. Instead of pooling people together, those who are well and 
those who are sick, to spread the risk, Republicans would have us 
separate the healthy from those who are not healthy. Instead of helping 
people with chronic diseases, they are pushed over into high-risk pools 
with high premiums.

The whole point of expanding health coverage is to make sure you have 
access to quality, affordable insurance. Changes to our health 
insurance system that make health insurance cheaper for some but more 
expensive for others is hardly a solution. We need to create large 
purchasing pools and offer a wide range of plans. Change the rules for 
setting premiums so that health costs are shared more broadly between 
the healthy and the sick. We need to provide a tax credit to businesses 
that step up and say: We believe the health of our employees is as 
important as the money we pay them. We are going to make a sacrifice in 
our profit taking so that our coverage extends to not only the owners 
of the company but the employees. That kind of good, responsible civic 
conduct should be rewarded in our Tax Code.


I am glad we are starting to discuss health care reform again. 
Nothing is going to happen under this President. We are going to have 
to just count the days until January 20, 2009, when this President 
leaves office and another President comes to office, and the American 
people will then have a real chance for real change.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

















 Oil Prices
