---
---

# AFGHANISTAN
## `9e487ff67f157550b7b2e4967ee62d43`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 16 September 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I rise--and soon will be joined by 
Senate colleagues, Senators McCain and Graham--to speak about the war 
in Afghanistan.

For the first time since 9/11, a national debate is underway about 
the future of our fight in Afghanistan. This is appropriate. Whenever 
our Nation sends our brave men and women in uniform into harm's way, it 
is both natural and necessary that we should have a vigorous national 
conversation about why we are doing so, whether it is necessary for our 
national security, and what the right strategy is to achieve our 
objectives. The truth is, we have not had such a debate since the 
decision was made unanimously to go into Afghanistan after 9/11 to 
overthrow the Taliban, which had given safe haven to al-Qaida, which 
planned and trained for the attacks on us in Afghanistan.

The most direct answer to the question of why we are fighting in 
Afghanistan and why we must succeed there is exactly that: Afghanistan 
is where the attacks of 9/11 originated, where al-Qaida made its 
sanctuary under the Taliban, and where the same Taliban is on the 
offensive today in Afghanistan and has seized the initiative with the 
clear aim of gaining control of all of Afghanistan, or major parts of 
it, and once again providing sanctuary for al-Qaida. It remains self-
evident to be a clear and vital national interest of the United States 
to prevent this from happening. It is also because, although 
Afghanistan may seem geographically remote, we found out on September 
11, 2001, in this modern technological world where great spaces are 
passed over quickly, that it is not remote when it comes to the safety 
and security of the American people, and Afghanistan is in the heart of 
a region in which we have critical national interests.

The fact is, Afghanistan and Pakistan are today at the epicenter of 
global Islamist extremism and terrorism, with which we are at war. This 
is the test of our age so far as our security is concerned.