# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `9e53ebec38d69907b755cd98c335a6c8`
`Mr. HATCH â€” 19 May 2009`

---


Mr. HATCH. Madam President, I, again, rise to express my concerns 
regarding the closure of the Guantanamo Bay Detention Center. The 
closure of this Nation's only secure strategic interrogation center 
puts our Nation at risk.

I am uncompelled by the Obama administration's legal and policy 
reasons to justify closing Guantanamo within the next 8 months. 
Currently, there is no suitable replacement for Guantanamo. This $200 
million facility is secure and is a state-of-the-art facility. 
Moreover, it is located away from population centers and staffed by 
trained military personnel. Guantanamo has no equal within the 
continental United States.

On March 19, 2009, it was reported by the Wall Street Journal that 
Attorney General Eric Holder made reference to the idea that the 
Department of Justice would bring some of the detainees to this country 
and release them. The Attorney General's statement that he is open to a 
policy of outright release of terrorists brought to the United States 
is disturbing, coming as it does from the senior administration 
official charged with executing this plan. It also does not dispel my 
grave concerns about closing Guantanamo Bay.

Indeed, the manner in which this closure has been orchestrated has 
provided few details and little assurance about how this facility will 
be closed within the next 8 months and what will be the superior 
alternative to Guantanamo.

Of the approximately 240 detainees remaining at Guantanamo, 174 of 
them received or conducted training at al-Qaida camps and facilities in 
Afghanistan. There is direct evidence that 112 participated in armed 
hostilities against U.S. or coalition forces. Furthermore, 64 of these 
remaining detainees either worked for or had direct contact with Osama 
bin Laden, and 63 of the remaining detainees had traveled to Tora Bora.

In 2001, the Tora Bora cave complex became the fallback position for 
the Taliban and was believed to be the hideout for Osama bin Laden. Not 
just anyone could gain access to these caves. We have gone through 
these particular features. There were 174 who received training in al-
Qaida camps in Afghanistan; 112 participated in armed hostility with 
the U.S. or coalition forces; 64 worked for or had contact with Osama 
bin Laden; 63 traveled to Tora Bora.


The administration has stated that they will bring the Chinese 
Uighurs to


the United States for the sole purpose of releasing them. All 17 
Uighurs have demonstrable ties to the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, 
the ETIM, a designated terrorist organization since 2004. The ETIM made 
terrorist threats against the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and, regardless of 
previous terrorist activity, any member of this organization would be 
ineligible to enter the United States, pursuant to Federal immigration 
law, let alone be allowed to roam this country.

One of the trainers for these Chinese nationals was Hassan Mahsun, an 
associate of Osama bin Laden. The Uighurs traveled to Afghanistan by 
using al-Qaida resources. They were also lodged in al-Qaida safe houses 
and terrorist training facilities. This alone is indicative that these 
terrorists were vetted and respected enough to be allowed access to al-
Qaida havens.

Title 8, section 1182 of the United States Code defines inadmissible 
aliens. Under this law, any alien who has engaged in terrorist activity 
or is a representative of a terrorist organization is ineligible to 
enter the United States. The ''Guantanamo'' Uighurs have certainly met 
this definition, but to completely address this argument, I want to 
take this analysis one step further. The law also states that ''any 
alien who has received military-type training from or on behalf of any 
organization that, at the time the training was received, was a 
terrorist organization, is ineligible to enter the country.''

That is what this says:




 In general any alien who has received military training as 


 identified in section 2339 D(c)(1) of title 18, from or on 


 behalf of any organization that, at the time training was 


 received, was a terrorist organization as defined in clause 