---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `9e66a26b9208c5200e6b099daed0cadd`
`Mr. REID — 8 November 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this morning the Senate will be in a period 
for the transaction of morning business for 1 hour, with the first half 
controlled by the majority and the second half controlled by the 
Republicans. Following morning business, the Senate will resume 
consideration of the veto message on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources 
Development Act. There is 30 minutes of debate on the veto message. 
Senators Boxer and Inhofe will control 7/1/2/ minutes each, and the 
other 15 minutes in support of the veto is under the control of the 
Republican leader or his designee.

For planning purposes, Members can expect a rollcall vote on the veto 
override about 11:40 this morning. As I have indicated, we will vote on 
the President's veto override. The House of Representatives voted 
yesterday 361 to 54 on the veto override.

This is one of the bipartisan measures we have done. We have had 
Senators Boxer and Inhofe working together on legislation, which any 
day should be a day of celebration, and they have worked so hard on 
this legislation. I am confident Members on both sides of the aisle 
will support the two managers.

Later this afternoon, we will receive the Defense appropriations 
conference report from the House which will include a continuing 
resolution to keep Government agencies funded until the middle of next 
month. We hope to reach agreement so we can dispose of that matter 
quickly and send it to the President today. It is essential we do this 
quickly so we can send our men and women in uniform, who have 
sacrificed so much in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world, the 
support they deserve. It is about $470 billion.

Finally, I have had some discussion with the distinguished Republican 
leader to try to work out an agreement to dispose of the Mukasey 
nomination. I thought I had that all worked out. Last night, a little 
wrinkle appeared, but I hope we can reach agreement on that today as 
well.
