---
---

# None
## `9e697227ba557cdc29b9be0f6d24dfbd`
`Mr. ISAKSON — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I rise for just a few minutes. I know 
the distinguished Senator from Michigan


wants to speak, and I will not be long, but I feel compelled to come to 
the floor today to speak about S. 2634, to require a report back to the 
people of the United States and to the Congress on our country's plan 
to address al-Qaida and its affiliates on a worldwide basis. It is very 
disappointing to me that we would put something on the floor like that 
when, in fact, it is those who have objected to the plan we have who 
are causing all of the problems we are experiencing today. I wish to go 
through it for a moment because there is a plan.

Nine days after 9/11, when the United States of America was attacked 
and New York City was attacked and the world saw the evil of al-Qaida 
and the evil of terrorism, the President of the United States went to 
the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, and he made a speech in 
which he declared a change in U.S. policy--a change from one of 
reaction to one of preemption.

So, first of all, we don't need a 60-day report back to the people of 
the United States on what our policy is. Our policy is one of 
preemption. Now, if you want to argue whether that is right or wrong, 
it is fine with me, but don't pretend as though we don't have a plan.

Secondly, in terms of preemption, it is a proposition where you don't 
want to see what happened on 9/11 happen again, so you are proactive 
rather than reactive. We were attacked as a country in the late 1990s 
and early 2000 seven different times in which we reacted after the 
fact. In most cases, those reactions were benign. In one case, we sent 
one missile into an aspirin factory, but it was too late for the 
diplomats who had died, for the soldiers and sailors on the Cole who 
had died, and for others who had died tragically under terrorist 
attack.

So, first and foremost, I would submit that we have a policy called 
preemption.

Thirdly, I would submit it has been a pretty good policy because 
since the President of the United States established it in that speech 
on the floor of the House in September of 2001, there has not been a 
single executed attack on the United States of America on our homeland. 
I think that is pretty good evidence that we have a plan, and a plan 
that is working in the interest of the safety of the American people.

Fourth, recommendations regarding the distribution and deployment of 
U.S. military, intelligence, diplomatic, and other assets to meet the 
relative regional and country-specific threats described in paragraph 
1. The people who want to pass this bill are the very people who 2 
weeks ago would not allow us, in the House of Representatives, to 
extend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Here we are asking 
what our plan is going to be. Yet people are voting against the United 
States having the intelligence to conduct the worldwide program against 
al-Qaida and its affiliates. You just can't have it both ways.

I respect anybody being opposed to our deployment in Iraq. I respect 
anybody's opinion in this body--or any other body, for that matter--on 
the policy of the United States. But do not on the one hand assume we 
have no policy and then on the other hand vote against every meaningful 
contribution to the policy we do have, and the absolute prima facie 
evidence of that is FISA. Go look at the votes in the Senate on who 
voted against the extension of FISA, and you will find the same people 
who are supporting and furthering S. 2634. It is on its face patently 
unacceptable.


Lastly, it requires recommendations to ensure that the global 
deployment of the U.S. military of personnel and equipment best meets 
threats identified and described in paragraph 1; and, A, doesn't 
undermine the military readiness; B, requires the deployment of Reserve 
units more than twice, once every 4 years; and C, requires further 
extension of deployments of members of the U.S. Armed Forces.

Let me interpret what that means. In 60 days, they want us to report 
to our enemies exactly what our military deployments are going to be in 
the future. One thing you don't do when your sons and daughters are 
engaged in harm's way around the world is tell your enemy what your 
game plan is. Sure, you should have one, and it should be one we all 
listen to on the fourth floor in our secured briefing rooms, but don't 
require it to be advertised to the world.

We live in the greatest, freest, most liberty-loving country in the 
world. We fight in this body every day to protect the Bill of Rights. 
But we have to recognize something: The terrorists don't want what we 
have. They don't want us to have what we have. They don't want us to 
have a first amendment to protect speech or for me to be able to stand 
up here and express myself. They don't want a law-abiding citizen to be 
able to carry a firearm or own a firearm. They don't want you to be 
able to worship on Sunday or worship on Friday or worship on Saturday 
or worship five times a day if you are a Muslim. They want to be able 
to dictate how you worship and whom you worship. We have to remember 
that, as we talk about the individual liberties and freedom we protect, 
those are the very liberties al-Qaida and its affiliates, as this bill 
portends, want to take away from us. The last thing we want to do is 
pass legislation requiring us to give them our game plan.

I welcome debate on these issues anytime we want to come to the 
floor. I take pride in the accomplishments of the young men and women 
who stand today in Afghanistan, in Iraq, and in other places around the 
world furthering the interests of the United States of America and 
protecting us against al-Qaida and its operatives. We have a policy, 
and it is called preemption. We have a plan, and it is our plan, and it 
doesn't need to be advertised to them. Most importantly of all, we have 
the finest men and women in the world executing that plan today around 
the world on behalf of the people of the United States of America. But 
let's not require disclosure of our plan, and let's not pretend we 
don't have a way to attack al-Qaida and its affiliates. We do. It is 
called preemption. As of yet, they haven't hit us on our territory, in 
our country since the day we established that as the policy of the 
United States of America.

I yield the floor.