---
---

# ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
## `9e6fb163527f0b6c97b0b26fd57db558`
`Mr. HODES — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. HODES. Mr. Klein, one of the things I think about is the change 
in the dialogue that has occurred since the Democrats became the 
majority party here in the House of Representatives as a result of the 
elections of November 2006.

And I know that there are many people in this country who are 
extremely frustrated. More than 70 percent of the people in this 
country, the statistics now tell us, are committed to changing course 
in Iraq, despite the intransigence, the stubbornness, the refusal of 
the President to face reality, despite the refusal of the Vice 
President of this country to meet his own obligations to the people of 
this country. But the dialogue has changed.

It's very important, I think, to take stock of what has happened, 
where we are now and how we are moving forward, and also to talk about 
the accountability of the administration and the Republicans, our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle, who have stood foursquare up 
until now with the failed policies of this President.

The picture that I have put up here is a picture of President Bush 
with virtually the entire Republican delegation standing with him when 
he rejected the Democrats' attempt to set reasonable guidelines for 
troop readiness, for benchmarks, for Iraqi accountability, and a 
timeline for the responsible, strategic redeployment of American troops 
to protect our security.

We've heard a lot in the past few days, in the past few months from 
our colleagues on the other side of the aisle who keep blasting 
Democrats. They say, well, we're not getting anything done. But 
Democrats have stood up time and time again to help push a new 
direction in Iraq. And frankly, and unfortunately, it's been our 
Republican colleagues on the other side of the aisle who have not 
helped move this along, who have not stood up to their President and 
said to our President, this is an American issue. We must all work 
together for a responsible strategy that protects American security.

Now, after 6 months in the majority, House and Senate Democrats 
really are changing the debate on the war. We're insisting that the 
Bush administration and the Iraqi Government be held accountable. We 
need benchmarks to measure progress, or the lack thereof. We need to 
challenge the stay-the-course strategy, and we will continue to 
challenge this President's stay-the-course strategy.

And what is not too surprising to me now, as we sit here today ready 
for the July 4th recess and about 6 months into the 110th Congress, 
under pressure from responsible Democrats and the American public, an 
increasing number


of Senate Republicans are now distancing themselves from the 
President's policy, even as our colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle, our House Republicans, continue to cling to it. The question is, 
when will the rubber-stamp House Republicans face the reality, join the 
Democrats, together with the American people, in demanding a real 
change and a responsible, strategic redeployment of our forces from 
Iraq? That, as you said, doesn't necessarily mean and shouldn't mean, 
in my view, that we bring everybody home in a precipitous fashion. 
That's what the Republicans continue to claim Democrats are talking 
about, but nothing could be further from the truth. Because the 
Democratic Caucus and the American people understand that what is 
needed is a responsible, strategic redeployment to protect American 
security.