---
---

# EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008
## `9e74a6a5a89b20f2ca6a5248ac912bae`
`Mr. NADLER — 29 September 2008`

---


Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I rise reluctantly in support of this 
rescue package. I have great reservations about this legislation, but 
after looking at the situation carefully, reviewing the facts, and 
speaking with economists whose views and expertise I value, I believe 
that the threat to our credit markets is both real and urgent.

Is the danger severe enough to warrant supporting a bill about which 
I have strenuous reservations? I believe so.

In the past, I have been very skeptical of proposals brought to us by 
this administration with the warning that the situation was dire, that 
we could not afford to be more deliberate, and that we must give the 
administration broad new powers. I opposed the USA PATRIOT Act, the 
recent FISA legislation, and the vote to authorize the war in Iraq. In 
each instance, we were told that the danger was great and imminent. The 
administration went so far as to warn of a smoking gun in the form of a 
mushroom cloud.

Unfortunately, these tactics worked, and Congress was stampeded into 
doing the wrong thing. In each case, it was not easy to stand in the 
way of the stampede, but, in my judgment, after examining all the known 
facts, it was the right and necessary thing to do.

In this case, the administration should have seen this crisis coming 
years ago. Many of us warned that the administration's deregulation 
policies were leading us toward disaster, but so long as unprecedented 
profits were rolling in, the voices of caution were ignored.

The near-religious belief that unrestrained markets would bring 
nothing but good times, that real estate prices would spiral upward 
forever, that financial instruments that even the directors of the 
firms selling them did not understand, would always bring prosperity, 
permeated thinking in government and out.

History should have taught us otherwise. Our current situation proves 
otherwise.

When the final accounting came, the boom was revealed for what it 
was: history's largest and most costly ponzi scheme.

Finally, the administration acted--belatedly and arrogantly. Only a 
week ago, they told us that the situation was dire, that they needed 
$700 billion--more even than the President's Iraq adventure has cost so 
far--and presented us with a three page proposal that said essentially, 
''Give the Treasury Secretary a free hand with nearly a trillion 
dollars, make sure no one can go to court to stop him if he gets out of 
hand, forget any oversight or transparency, don't worry about paying 
for it, don't do anything to help the middle class, then buzz off.''

In defense of that request, they said we should just trust them--the 
same people who got us into this crisis--with power even the Vice 
President only dreams of.

As the old joke goes: how do you say ''drop dead'' in Washington? 
''Trust me.'' Only this time, it's not funny.

The legislation before us today is not very attractive, but it is 
greatly improved from the President's proposal. The bill has increased 
transparency. It leaves available court remedies, although not as many 
as I would want. It partially repays the taxpayers by providing for 
acquiring an equity stake in participating firms. It does have real 
oversight.

I am deeply disappointed that some very important provisions for 
which I fought were not included.

The package should have been paid for with a repeal of tax breaks on 
the wealthy, and of giveaway tax benefits for oil companies and other 
big corporations and for the industry that caused this mess. The 
shareholders should have borne more of the cost of this package. They 
are the ones who profited, and they are the ones who should pay. I do 
not believe in privatizing profits while socializing risk. That's not 
capitalism, that's lemon socialism--the people get only the lemons.

It is clear that the taxpayers will not be on the hook for the full 
$700 billion authorized, because the securities that will be acquired 
are not as worthless as the market now assumes, although we do not know 
how much they are really worth.

I believe that the Bankruptcy Code should have been fixed so that 
families with predatory


or subprime mortgages could restructure their mortgages. Mortgages are 
the only secured debts in bankruptcy that cannot be restructured. 
Investors can do it with their properties; The Senator from Arizona 
[Senator McCain] can do it with six of his seven houses; you can do it 
with airplanes, yachts, steel plants, or anything else. The only 
exception is the family home. That's wrong, and we should have fixed it 
in this bill.

We need comprehensive regulatory reform in order to stave off the 
next financial catastrophe, and we need a President and regulators 
willing to enforce the laws we have on the books. The bill does not do 
that, but the next Congress must enact comprehensive regulatory reform. 
We need to take away from this experience the lesson I had thought the 
nation learned in 1929. Sound regulation in markets is necessary to 
maintain stability.

So, as I said, I am angry that we are in a situation we could and 
should have avoided, and I am disappointed with the bill we are voting 
on today. I am especially angry that we are now at a point where, as 
unpopular as this is--and my constituents have told me that they do not 
like this any more than I do--we must act.

The crisis is real and immediate. If the credit markets freeze, as 
they started to do last week, and as we are warned by almost all 
credible economists they will if we do not act, we will face a 
calamity. All economic activity dependent on credit will cease. 
Businesses will not get loans to expand or to meet their payrolls. 
Thousands of banks will fail, ATM machines will dispense no funds, 
credit cards will be worthless, millions will be thrown out of work, 
and we could face a repeat of the Great Depression of the 1930s. We 
cannot be certain this bill will stave off this calamity, but it might. 
When faced with a choice between a certainty of catastrophe and a 
possibility of averting a catastrophe, the choice is clear.

Madam Speaker, I reluctantly support this legislation, and I urge my 
colleagues to do the same.