---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE RULES
## `9e82f352d73048bafb3a3119def9d14c`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 3 August 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 600 authorizes 
the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules at 
any time through the legislative day of Friday, August 3, 2007, on the 
following measures:



First, H.R. 3087, a bill to require the President, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, and other military leaders, to develop and transmit to 
Congress a comprehensive strategy for redeployment of United States 
Armed Forces in Iraq; and, second, a bill to amend the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 to establish a procedure for 
authorizing certain electronic surveillance.

Mr. Speaker, it is particularly important at this juncture in my 
remarks that I make it very clear that we have heard a lot of talk from 
the other side of the aisle about the need to reform FISA. The Director 
of National Intelligence has identified a specific intelligence 
collection gap and spoken of ''a backlog for things requiring a 
warrant,'' and I quote him. He claims that this is hindering our 
efforts to prevent terrorist attacks.

Congress, Mr. Speaker, takes its responsibilities to protect the 
Nation seriously. None of us on either side of the aisle want to leave 
our intelligence professionals short. The Intelligence Committee, the 
Judiciary Committee, the Homeland Security Committee, and the 
leadership have been working around the clock to come up with a 
solution that addresses this particular problem. However, again and 
again, the administration has overplayed their hand. Each time we get 
close to an agreement, they ask for more, and I might add the 
negotiations on this have been going on for over a year.

First they said Congress needed to clarify that the government 
shouldn't need a warrant to collect foreign communications. There was 
never ever any disagreement about that.

Then they said they wanted broader authority to conduct electronic 
surveillance of terrorist communications. We agreed to that.

Then they said they wanted immunity for the telecommunications 
carriers. We agreed to give them prospective immunity and would 
consider retrospective immunity when we get back.

But we insist on a couple of things. We want to preserve the role of 
the FISA Court as an independent check on the government to prevent 
them from infringing on the rights of Americans, and we insist that 
this legislation have a sunset. In this rushed environment before 
recess, we should not make permanent changes to FISA.

Last night, the congressional leadership was willing to make further 
changes for Director McConnell. He said with those changes he would 
support the bill because it would ''significantly enhance America's 
security.'' And I am quoting him again. But after this agreement was 
reached, congressional Republicans insisted on a much broader, 
permanent bill, giving the Attorney General, this Attorney General, not 
the Court, the discretion to make decisions about surveillance 
involving Americans. Clearly, in my judgment, they are not negotiating 
in good faith.

If they reject this bill, the other side is saying, in the face of a 
resurgent al Qaeda, they don't want to plug the collection gap 
identified by the Director of National Intelligence immediately. They 
are rejecting ''significantly enhancing America's security.''

Now, if the other side insists on manufacturing obstructionist delays 
and rejecting agreements that will enhance our security, we can stay 
here all August and September and December until we get this done. The 
security of this Nation deserves no less.

This rule is necessary, Mr. Speaker, because under clause 1(a), rule 
XV, the Speaker may entertain motions to suspend the rules only on 
Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday of each week. In order for suspensions to 
be considered on other days, as my colleagues well know, the Rules 
Committee must authorize consideration of these motions.

This is not an unusual procedure, as some on the other side may 
suggest. In fact, in the 109th Congress, alone, my friends on the other 
side of the aisle reported at least six rules that provided for 
additional suspension days.

This rule limits the suspension of rules to only these two bills and 
will help us move important legislation before we leave for the August 
recess. Time is, indeed, of the essence. Not because many in this body 
wish to go home this weekend but, rather, because of the gravity of 
these situations both here at home and abroad.

I hope that my colleagues will join me in support of this rule and 
the underlying piece of legislation.

I do wish to put my colleagues on notice that, following the 
conclusion of debate on this rule, I intend to offer an amendment to 
the rule. My amendment will permit the House to consider emergency 
legislation today appropriating $250 million to begin the 
reconstruction of the I-35 bridge, which collapsed this week in 
Minnesota. We have properly given our condolences and continue those to 
those who have lost loved ones and those who are awaiting word 
regarding those who are still missing and those who have been injured. 
All of us grieve with all of them.

Without this amendment and this rule, this legislation will not be 
permitted to proceed; and these emergency funds would be delayed. 
Realize a vote against this rule and my amendment to the rule will be a 
vote against providing this emergency assistance to the people of 
Minnesota, specifically Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.