---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `9e920d3cb0463b123a089f5e4b21c863`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 24 May 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I have never supported the 
war in Iraq. From the very outset of the conflict, I have stood as an 
ardent opponent of the war, and voted against the War Resolution, House 
Joint Resolution 114, which ''authorized the use of United States Armed 
Forces against Iraq,'' when it came before the House of Representatives 
on October 8, 2002. I have argued from the beginning of this conflict 
that the President intentionally misled the American public by 
supplying them with spurious grounds for going to war.

I cannot, in good conscience, return to my district over the Memorial 
Day recess having cast a vote to continue funding, and henceforth, 
provide financial support for the continuation of this horrible war. 
Moreover, the bill's lack of a timetable for troop withdrawal is not 
acceptable. This is a war without any end in sight, without any sort of 
deadlines or oversight, and the administration will continue to throw 
away billions and billions of dollars in this conflict if we cannot 
pass a bill with timelines or restrictions.

Clearly, the November midterm elections demonstrated that the 
majority of the American public is bitterly opposed to the war in Iraq. 
Just today in fact, a New York Times/CBS poll showed that ''over 61 
percent of Americans say that the United States should have stayed out 
of Iraq, while over 75 percent say that things [in Iraq] are going 
badly'' (New York Times, May 24, 2007). I stand with the American 
people today, and although I wholeheartedly support our troops, I 
cannot support a bill to continue funding a terrible war while the 
White House refuses to accede to readiness standards or any other 
measures that restrict their oil war in Iraq.

It is estimated that we have already spent over a trillion dollars of 
taxpayer money in Iraq. This is funding which we could be using for 
social services for our own citizens. Indeed, important items like 
education, prescription drugs, health care and homeland security goes 
underfunded while a disastrous war, unwillingly being paid for by U.S. 
taxpayers, wages on.

And yet the administration continues to request blank checks to be 
used at their discretion. A perfect example of this is the money sent 
over there in the period, between May 2003 and June 2004, when our 
military was carrying huge, wrapped stacks of $100 bills over to Iraq--
$12 billion total--in cash. This money was sent over there without 
oversight, without any sort of accountability, and many are now worried 
that the same insurgent groups that are battling against our troops may 
have bought their weapons with this money. And the argument put forward 
by the


Bush administration for sending money over in this way was that Iraq 
was without a functioning banking system. This utterly ludicrous 
reasoning is nearly as preposterous as their lies and poor reasons for 
going to war in the first place, like scaring the American people into 
believing that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, which, to this 
day, have not been discovered.

President Bush has asked for a blank check and the American people 
have stamped his account ''insufficient funds.''