---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `9ebf17277af66c772a20149e04df5e84`
`Mr. DORGAN — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, the Senate has passed a piece of 
legislation that includes funding for our troops who are committed to 
action in Iraq and other parts of the world, especially Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I expect there will be no controversy about the issue of 
funding, although we have provided more funding for the soldiers than 
requested by the President, but there are other portions of the 
legislation that are controversial. I understand that. But I wish to 
talk about something that has not been talked about nearly enough as we 
send our soldiers to war.

William Manchester wrote a book called ''The Glory and the Dream.'' I 
remember, when I read that book, thinking about what an unbelievable 
commitment this country made during the Second World War. We have now 
been at war in Iraq longer than we were at war in the Second World War.

Let me take a couple of brief comments from ''The Glory and the 
Dream,'' written by Manchester, about what this country did during the 
Second World War.

This country geared up. Its factories were humming. Rosie the Riveter 
was riveting, and we had output from our factories that was nearly 
unbelievable in support of the war effort. There was rationing. There 
were all kinds of things happening in which the country supported the 
war effort and supported the soldiers.

Let me quote:




 From an initial keel-to-delivery time of over 200 days, 


 Henry Kaiser cut the average work time on a liberty ship to 


 40 days. In 1944, he was launching a new escort aircraft 


 carrier every week, and they were turning out entire cargo 


 ships in 17 days. During the first 212 days of 1945, they 


 completed 247 cargo ships, better than 1 a day.


That is what this country mobilized to do during the Second World 
War.

From the same book, ''The Glory and the Dream,'' quote:




 In the 5 years following the French collapse, America 


 turned out: 296,000 warplanes, 102,000 tanks, 2.4 million 


 trucks, 8,700 warships, and 5,400 cargo ships.


Now, why did that happen? Because this country mobilized. This 
country's factories were humming.

At a meeting, Joseph Stalin observed to the American President--the 
American President, FDR, Joseph Stalin, and Winston Churchill. Stalin 
said: We couldn't win this war without America's production.

This country mobilized.

Now, let me read something. Just understanding that in 1944, we were 
producing 4,000 warplanes a month, 50,000 warplanes a year, let me read 
something. Colonel Hammes came and testified last year at a policy 
committee hearing I chaired, and here is what he said:







 Since the improvised explosive devices exploded in Iraq in 


 the summer of 2003, we as a country have known--


I am quoting him--



 we have known there are better and safer vehicles available 


 than the armored HUMVEE--for instance, the M-1117 armored 


 security vehicle. Yet in 3 years, the Pentagon has purchased 


 less than 1,000 of them. I find it remarkable that a Nation 


 that could produce 4,000 warplanes a month during World War 


 II can produce 45 armored vehicles per month today.


Continuing to quote:




 We didn't ask soldiers to invade France in 1944 with the 


 inferior equipment they had in 1941. Why are we asking our 


 soldiers and Marines to use the same armor that was 


 insufficient in 2003? It's simple. The administration has 


 refused to dedicate the resources necessary to make it 


 happen. It is content to let our troops ride in inferior 


 vehicles.


Continuing to quote:




 The administration has failed to replace and maintain the 


 equipment necessary for the units to be ready for other 


 potential operations, although our units lack equipment to 


 train, our repair depots are working single shifts and 5 days 


 a week. The American people haven't refused to provide what 


 our people need in the battlefield, the administration has 


 refused to ask for the funding. The failure to provide our 


 best equipment is a serious moral failure on the part of our 


 leadership.


Now, why do I raise this question today? In the Second World War, in 
1944, we were producing 4,000 warplanes a month, and yet we have not 
mobilized. We have sent troops abroad to go to war, but the message 
here at home is to go shopping. Troops go to the war, we go to the 
mall. We haven't mobilized.

Let me read to you a letter dated 1 March 2007. This is from the 
Marine Commandant about a vehicle called the MRAP vehicle, the mine-
resistent ambush-protected vehicle, a vehicle that is much stronger 
than the humvee, much safer than the humvee our soldiers are now riding 
in in Iraq on patrol.

This is from the Marine Corps Commandant, in his memorandum to the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff:




 The MRAP vehicle has a dramatically better record of 


 preventing fatal and serious injuries from attacks by 


 improvised explosive devices. We estimate that the use of the 


 MRAP could reduce the casualties in vehicles due to IED 


 attacks by as much as 80 percent.


Now, think of that, 3,325 U.S. troops have been killed in Iraq, and 
70 percent of those casualties have come as a result of IEDs. The 
Commandant of the Marine Corps says the MRAP vehicle would save 80 
percent of those casualties. Eighty percent. No marines have died in 
300 separate attacks on MRAP vehicles by IEDs, according to BG John 
Allen, deputy commander of coalition forces in Anbar Province--300 
attacks on MRAP vehicles and no marines have died.

Now, why do I raise all this? Well, we need about 6,700 of these MRAP 
vehicles if this country is intending to provide the best equipment for 
our troops who are on patrol in Iraq. Until recent months, we were 
producing about 45 a month. Let me say that again. We are sending 
soldiers to war, and there is a vehicle that the Commandant of the 
Marine Corps says will save 80 percent of the lives now being lost in 
these IED explosions because this is a much safer vehicle than the 
humvee. It is called the MRAP. But we are not mobilized to produce the 
MRAP. No one has said: This is urgent, let's provide the best equipment 
for these soldiers.

So what did we do? Well, in the 2007 Omnibus appropriations bill, we 
added money. Yes, we in Congress added money for it. In the bill we 
just voted for today, we added money for it because the President 
wasn't requesting sufficient money. We have a need for 6,700 of them. 
The administration, with all of their requests, would fund less than a 
third of that. In their 2008 budget request, which would take effect 
next October, once again it is underfunded.

Let me show a picture, if I might, a photograph of what is called the 
MRAP vehicle. Three versions of the MRAP. The Defense Department 
experts say that soldiers on patrol, riding in this version of the MRAP 
80 percent of the soldiers who would otherwise lose their lives from 
IED explosives will be saved. Think of that. With 300 attacks against 
this vehicle, not 1 life has been lost. Yet we have soldiers patrolling 
in Iraq with vehicles much less safe, and 70 percent of the 3,325 
troops who have been killed have been killed as a result of IEDs, 
riding in vehicles that are not as safe as this vehicle, and until 
recently we were producing 45 a month. That is unbelievable. A country 
that could send everyone into its factories and have those factories 
humming three shifts a day and produce 4,000 warplanes a month and a 
liberty ship a day, every single day, the country that won the Second 
World War with its prodigious productions, supporting its wonderful 
troops, that country can't mobilize? This President can't ask that 
country to mobilize? We have to stick money in this supplemental bill 
above the President's request in order to say that this is a priority, 
this is urgent, this is about saving the lives of soldiers?

Again, I raise the question because we are at war. Yet you would 
hardly know it, with respect to the daily lives most of us lead. In the 
Second World War, it wasn't that way. Yet we have been at this war 
longer than the Second World War. In the Second World War, here is what 
we produced--the might of American production, in which a nation came 
together to say that we are going to support our troops and beat back 
the forces of fascism and defeat Adolf Hitler and where we produced 
296,000 warplanes--think of it--and 8,762 warships. We didn't do that 
working one shift a day. We didn't do that making 45 MRAPs a month. 
This country mobilized then, but it is not mobilized now.

So we passed a piece of legislation here today. It has some areas the 
President says will persuade him to veto it. I assume this is not one 
of those areas. The President didn't request this funding for MRAPs. He 
should have. He didn't request enough funding in the coming fiscal 
year. He should have. If this country is going to send its soldiers to 
war, then we, all of us in this country, have an obligation to send 
them to war with the very finest equipment available to protect them 
and to help them. Regrettably, that is not now the case.

Early on in this war, I received e-mail pictures, photographs from 
Iraq, from soldiers showing me their humvees with welded pieces of 
metal on the doors, metal they pulled out of a scrap heap and welded to 
a door to try to strengthen it because those humvees weren't up-
armored. Even now, much later, when all of the humvees on patrol are 
up-armored, we know there is a much safer vehicle that will save, we 
think, 80 percent of the fatalities that now exist through IEDs. There 
is no excuse--no excuse, in my judgment--for our not having three 
shifts at every plant available to produce these vehicles and get them 
to our soldiers in Iraq and save these lives. That is what we did in 
this supplemental appropriations bill.


When anyone talks about undercutting or undermining soldiers, I refer 
them to this. This was the first time, today, in which this Congress 
said to the President and said to the country we are going to mobilize. 
We insist that if we send soldiers to war, we want them to go to war 
with the finest equipment available with the potential to save their 
lives.

I yield the floor.