# None
## `9ec10911967d252b76f6587bb7af911c`
`Mr. TONKO — 21 April 2010`

---


Mr. TONKO. Representative Holt, if you'll suffer a disruption, if you 
will yield, you triggered a thought.

Just recently my district hosted the only stop in New York State, 
actually in Schenectady, of the Operation Free Tour. As you know, it's 
a bus tour being conducted by veterans for American power and they are 
doing a coast-to-coast tour, hitting all of the States. It was so 
impressive. We invited veterans from all vintages, from World War II, 
from the Korean War, from the Vietnam conflict and up to the present 
day, more present-day veterans that have committed in uniform and have 
fought on foreign soils in defense of this nation. Very impressive, 
very impressive visits by these folks.

They, at our stop in Schenectady, New York, had three spokespersons: 
one veteran from the State of Arkansas, who has done two tours of duty 
as a marine in Iraq, spoke to the crowd, spoke to those assembled. We 
had a visitor, a veteran from the State of Wisconsin. She drove a 
truck, I believe, with the Army in Iraq. And then finally a veteran 
from the State of New Hampshire who as an Army officer did a tour of 
duty in Iraq and a tour of duty in Afghanistan. He is now at Yale Law 
School.

To a person, each of these veterans spoke of the wisdom, the no-
brainer, as we might call it, of moving to energy independence for 
Americans; energy security. They witnessed the outright destruction of 
troops, the threat to the troops, the supreme sacrifice oftentimes made 
simply by forces of Taliban that they believed are fed by the 
treasuries of these unfriendly nations to which we feed over $400 
billion a year; unstable but, more importantly, unfriendly governments 
to the U.S., using those dollars from their treasury to work against 
our operations for freedom-loving people around the world.

They also spoke to--and it's what your comments triggered in me--the 
concerns for global warming, for climate change. They said, this is an 
issue of national security. Beyond our domestic programming for energy 
security and energy independence, it's a national security issue. 
Because what they believe is happening is that with drought, with 
floods, with famine, you're creating the perfect storm that finds 
people weakened by famine and a much more robust competition for 
available land around the world. It's a breeding ground for terrorist 
activity. The veterans who were there, many of whom had fought in the 
Second World War, walked away from that saying, what an interesting way 
to approach the issue. They were impacted by the thought process that 
was inspired by each of these three veterans, recent veterans, to the 
honor roll of American history, but to a person these two men and one 
woman spoke in very relevant terms about what our energy policy can 
mean to our troops and to the goals of our military into the future.

It just makes so much sense, from a national security, energy 
independence, energy security concept and perspective if we move 
forward with clean energy thinking and an innovation economy that can 
be inspired by that thinking. I think that their comments are very 
relevant to today's eve of celebration of Earth Day.