# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `9ecb2f17a2ae8d7b65a57719eb8b14cf`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 261 provides for the 
consideration of the emergency supplemental, the U.S. Troops Readiness, 
Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. The rule provides 4 hours 
of general debate in the House equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill 
except for clauses 9 and 10 of rule XXI. The rule provides that the 
amendment printed in the Rules Committee report shall be considered as 
adopted. The rule waives all points of order against the bill as 
amended and provides that the bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. Finally, the rule provides one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.

Mr. Speaker, with a deep appreciation for how critical this bill is, 
the Rules Committee reported out a rule that allows for 4 hours of what 
will be a full debate. It allows for the consideration of clear and 
concise legislation that everyone in the Congress is familiar with. It 
is a responsible rule, and I urge all of my colleagues to support it.

But we are here today to debate much more than procedure, Mr. 
Speaker. We meet today on the fourth day of the fifth year of the war 
in Iraq, a conflict that has gone on longer than the Korean War, even 
longer than the Second World War, that war being fought against the 
greatest threat to world security.

The scenarios painted by politicians here about the war in Iraq don't 
affect the men and women fighting it or living it. They actually know 
what the world for them really is. And what is that reality? This is a 
war being fought by soldiers who often do not have the equipment they 
need or the care they are owed. And it is not improving security for 
the Iraqi people. It is depleting our military and endangering the 
security of this Nation; and that is to this day based on a flawed 
strategy that desperately needs to be changed.

Under such circumstances, for this Congress to support an open-ended 
commitment to this conflict, passing yet another blank check as past 
Congresses have done, would be a dereliction of duty. By contrast, 
passing a bill that has a chance of changing a stagnant situation in 
Iraq is not micromanaging; it is living up to what we owe our soldiers 
and the Iraqi people, to give them a fighting chance for success.

The supplemental makes America's continued involvement in Iraq 
conditional on the situation there improving. America's soldiers will 
no longer be asked to fight in an open-ended war whose goal line keeps 
moving. The bill would require Iraqi leaders to make the political 
compromises necessary to produce a working government, or risk losing 
the American military support. It will require the President's own 
security benchmarks to be met if American soldiers are to continue 
sacrificing their safety for that goal. And it will be the first step 
toward ending the war.

Ending this flawed conflict is crucial not just for Iraq, but also 
for the future of our own military and, hence, to our own national 
security.

This Congress was aghast when it learned of the conditions of Walter 
Reed. But every day, the men and women of our military are suffering 
beyond reason. Let me briefly share one story with you that I recently 
heard, the story of a young lieutenant awaiting his second deployment 
to Iraq.

His first tour saw him bravely patrolling dangerous streets north of 
Baghdad. He returned last December, expecting a year on base during 
which to rest and train a new platoon. Instead, with the escalation in 
place, he will be heading back months sooner. The soldiers under his 
command are not getting the time they need to train properly for their 
mission. The vehicles and equipment they use to train for war are 
failing and often break. They are physically weary, many still 
suffering from the lingering effects of leg and back injuries. Others 
are in counseling for post-traumatic stress disorder. Most of the 
soldiers who were married before the war are now divorced. Their lives 
outside the conflict are coming apart.

This lieutenant and his soldiers personify sacrifice. They never 
complain. When those in the military are given a mission, he told me, 
they find a way to complete it. That creed is why our Armed Forces are 
so strong.

But what this officer did tell me is that our Armed Forces cannot go 
on like this. He said that we are in danger of destroying our system of 
national defense. We see soldiers being sent back tour after tour, some 
too injured to wear the body armor. Our services are desperately trying 
to find a way to meet new troop requirements, sending back the wounded.

Mr. Speaker, this war is a dramatic misuse of our military. In the 
name of our national security, it is undermining the only true 
guarantor of national security that we have, our Armed Forces. And for 
years this Congress has let it happen, but not anymore.

Today the House will finally recognize that our military is at the 
breaking point, not because of any inherent weakness, but because it is 
being asked to complete a flawed mission. And so that mission itself 
must change.

Let me add as well that while our soldiers may stoically bear the 
burdens of short leaves and shoddy equipment, that in no way means that 
we in Congress should allow it to happen.

This bill respects our men and women in uniform enough to put their 
needs at the forefront of national priorities. From now on, if they are 
asked to go into battle without being fully armored, fully rested, and 
fully trained, then the President himself will have to stand before 
them, look them in the eye, and explain why he thinks our national 
safety is worth that level of sacrifice.

The legislation will also provide desperately needed funds for 
veterans' health care. Our country is seeing more wounded soldiers 
returning from abroad than at any point in 40 years, and yet our health 
care system has failed thousands of them. It is unconscionable, and it 
is long past time that that state of affairs is radically changed.

And, finally, this bill both increases funding for the ongoing 
conflict in Afghanistan and for a variety of other critically important 
national security objectives. Taken together, it represents the 
beginning of what will be a responsible and ethical shift in our 
national security priorities away from a war in Iraq that we can't end 
and back towards where it ought to be.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation is the first real chance that Democrats 
have had since 2003 to change the course of the war in Iraq, and we 
intend to do it. We will do it not because we are conceding anything to 
those who would do our Nation harm, not because we lack the will to 
fight for security, and not because, as some would have you believe, we 
are giving up. With this first step, we will change the course of this 
war because the future of the people of America depends on it, because 
a basic level of respect for our soldiers demands it, and because the 
long-term security of our Nation requires it.

This is an important and historic bill, and I am proud to support it. 
I urge all of my colleagues to do the same thing.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.