# HONORING AN ACHIEVEMENT OF THE UCWIP INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
## `9ecbbeb6862b9adc541ae349492817b2`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 23 July 2008`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize one 
achievement of my former intern, Anu Ambikaipalan who participated in 
the Australian Uni-Capitol Washington Internship Program, UCWIP. After 
an experience in Washington, she returned to Deakin University in 
Melbourne, Australia where she will soon graduate and pursue a career 
in law at a prestigious local firm.

Ms. Ambikaipalan was recently distinguished as a leader in her 
academic pursuits and was asked to deliver a keynote speech at a 
breakfast reception honoring ''Women in the Law.'' I commend to your 
attention the insightful text of her speech to reiterate the importance 
of providing professional development opportunities for youth on 
Capitol Hill and how these experiences can translate into successful 
contributions to communities, even on the other side of the world. As 
Members of Congress, we must continue to support initiatives like the 
UCWIP which not only improve the lives of our constituents, but engage 
the global community. The text of her speech follows:




 Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen. It's great to see so 


 many people here today, and especially university students. 


 Being able to sleep in till 12 noon is one of the prized 


 possessions of a university student, so I'm glad you could 


 all make it.



 It is indeed a privilege to be able to speak in front of so 


 many accomplished women and men in the law here. I'd like to 


 thank the Victorian Council of Law Students' Society and the 


 convener of today's breakfast, Katie Elder, for asking me to 


 speak to you this morning on my experience as an Intern in 


 Congress in Washington, D.C., through the Uni-Capitol 


 Washington Internship Program or the UCWIP.



 In the summer of 2007, I along with 11 other Australian 


 university students, were fortunate enough to receive the 


 opportunity to work as Interns in the U.S. Congress.



 As exciting as this was, I was brought back to reality when 


 the response given by my friends to my impending internship 


 was--'So, is it like the West Wing?' or 'An Intern? . . . 


 Like Monica Lewinsky?'



 The UCWIP is a program run by Mr. Eric Federing, who 


 directs and manages the program pro bono. It is now in its 


 tenth year and includes 8 participating Australian 


 universities from around Australia with approximately 60 


 applicants a year.



 Applicants are required to choose from 13 Congressional 


 offices which participated in the program. My first 


 preference was an African American Congressman, Mr. Alcee 


 Hastings, who represented the 23rd district of Florida. I 


 chose Congressman Hastings because of his strong stance on 


 racial equality and social justice. Having been in Congress 


 for almost 18 years, the Congressman is an important member 


 of the Democrat party's leadership and often champions the 


 rights of minority groups.



 When I arrived in Washington, D.C., in January 2007, I had 


 no idea that the next two months would be a life changing 


 experience.



 I remember walking through the hallowed halls of Congress 


 on the first day, nervous but also in complete and utter 


 wonderment. As the weeks went on, I tried not to become too 


 complacent as to where I was. Every morning I would take the 


 long route to my office so I could see the Capitol Building 


 and remind myself that I was working at the centre of global 


 politics.



 When we arrived on Capitol Hill, the U.S. was witnessing 


 monumental changes, with the Democrats regaining the majority 


 in the House of Representatives and the Senate. The highlight 


 for me personally, was when my Congressman gave me his only 


 ticket to the historical swearing in of the first female 


 Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi.



 The biggest talking point in Congress with the change in 


 power was the Iraq War and the troop surge.



 We were fortunate enough to see both Secretary of State 


 Condoleezza Rice and Former Secretary of State Madeleine 


 Albright give testimonies before the House Foreign Affairs 


 Committee in relation to the troop surge.



 As my Congressman sits on the Intelligence Committee, I was 


 lucky enough to attend one of the very rare open Intelligence 


 Committee hearings with Hon. John Negroponte, Director of 


 National Intelligence and General Michael Hayden, Director of 


 the CIA as witnesses.



 However, the UCWIP was not all about work and serious 


 political issues. The program is established to allow 


 participants to gain a well-rounded appreciation of American 


 culture and history. We were given a guided tour of the 


 battlefields of Gettysburg, visited Philadelphia and met 


 extraordinary individuals such as Mr. Joe Ichiuji, a 


 Japanese-American who fought for the U.S. army in World War 


 II, while his family were detained in concentration camps in 


 America because of their Japanese descent.



 We also attended major social events such as the inaugural 


 ball for the new mayor of Washington, D.C., Adrian Fenty and 


 the annual Roe v. Wade dinner run by the National Abortion 


 Rights Action League, Pro-Choice America.



 The most significant part of my internship was the 


 opportunity to develop legislation to combat gang violence 


 which the Congressman could introduce into this Congress.



 This issue came to the forefront after the rapid increase 


 in deaths resulting from gang violence in the Congressman's 


 district. By the 5th January 2007, 8 people had been killed 


 from gang violence. That was more than one person a day. One 


 of those killed was a 2 year old boy who was left in the car 


 as his parents fled from a drive-by shooting.



 Since I had very little knowledge of gang violence, I 


 decided to put my years of researching for law assignments 


 into good use. I jumped onto Google. As I scrawled through 


 pages of information, I realized that I had just opened 


 Pandora's Box. Gang violence in America is one of the 


 deadliest and most dangerous activities on the streets, and 


 its scourge has permeated into mainstream American culture 


 through music, movies and television.



 Through my research, I discovered that the two problem 


 areas were: (1) trying to deter youths from entering gangs 


 and (2) the high rate of re-offending by youths once they 


 were released from juvenile detention.



 Looking through the limited legislation that had already 


 been put through Congress, it was evident a fresh new 


 approach was required. Clearly, the problem will never be 


 solved by middle-aged, college educated, men and women from 


 privileged backgrounds sitting on Capitol Hill, who are so 


 far dissociated from the unemployed, impoverished and 


 generally black young men who roam the streets, searching for 


 drugs and money in order to survive. A connection has to be 


 established between those making the law and the young people 


 on American streets who live day by day in fear of their 


 lives and in the shadows of gang violence.





 So, it was a stroke of luck when a group called 'Exhoodus' 


 was holding a briefing on the Hill encouraging Congress to 


 take action combating gang violence. The forum was hosted by 


 Bill Cosby with a panel made up of ex-gang members who had 


 all spent time in jail for murder and drug related crimes. 


 The group traveled around America to speak to youths and 


 deter them from entering gangs. They informed us that gangs 


 were now recruiting from primary school, with gang members 


 being as young as 8 years old.



 Inspired by the work of this group, I figured that the only 


 way to find out what to put in the legislation was to ask 


 those directly affected by the issue. As such, we organized 


 to visit the Northern Virginia Juvenile Detention Home to 


 have a tour of the facilities and speak to some of the 


 children incarcerated there.



 It was the most significant part of my internship and one 


 of the most confronting experiences of my life. Some of these 


 kids were 10 or 11 and had already spent 2 or 3 years in 


 detention. As we spent time with these kids, I realized that 


 they were just normal kids who had made one mistake. Most of 


 these children came from broken homes, with violent, 


 alcoholic fathers or mothers prostituting themselves to 


 support their drug addiction. Being in a gang not only 


 provided them with a family unit, but also provided them with 


 money to support their families. They too had dreams of 


 becoming a chef, journalist or an NBA basketballer, but were 


 victims of the streets and of a society that couldn't provide 


 the security and safety that they felt came from being in a 


 gang.



 When we told these kids that we wanted them to help us 


 create this piece of legislation to combat gang violence, 


 their reaction was something I can still picture today. They 


 were bursting with ideas on how to improve their local 


 communities and get gangs off their streets and kids back 


 into school.



 As we continued to work on the legislation, I was given the 


 opportunity to travel to Florida to visit the Congressman's 


 district and finally experience some resemblance of a summer.



 I visited both of the Congressman's district offices--in 


 Ft. Lauderdale and West Palm Beach. His staff took me around 


 the streets of Ft. Lauderdale and I couldn't believe my eyes. 


 I was driving through the ghetto. There was rubbish littering 


 the streets, police officers outside houses questioning 


 people and young men dealing drugs openly on street corners.



 Actually seeing the district and understanding where the 


 Congressman came from made me fully appreciate his fight 


 against racial discrimination and injustice. His policies 


 began to make more sense and I gained a lot more motivation 


 for my gang violence work.



 After discussing the issue of gang violence with local 


 officials and police, it became evident, and quite 


 frustrating, that nobody wanted to take responsibility for 


 fixing the problem. It was only when we visited a community 


 university that we discovered a possible idea for legislation 


 that would assist with gang violence.



 We organized for community colleges to work with local 


 prisons to create reintroduction programs for those who had 


 spent time in juvenile detention. Our purpose was to deter 


 them from falling back into gang activity. The legislation, 


 entitled 'Path to Success' promotes initiatives to provide 


 at-risk youths with counseling and academic and vocational 


 training. Ultimately, this program is based on a principle 


 that is a central tenet of law all over the world 


 reintegrating offenders as a means of rehabilitation.



 Last week to my delight, I received an email from the 


 Congressman's office. It was to inform me that the Bill had 


 passed through Congress and the Senate. The ''Path to 


 Success'' program was finally becoming law in the United 


 States.



 My experience in Congress has made me realize that we 


 should never feel too small or powerless to make a 


 difference. Upon reflection, after working with people like 


 Congressman Hastings and Eric Federing, if we all took the 


 most valuable commodity we have--our time, and use that for 


 the benefit of others, in a personal way, imagine what a 


 difference we could make.



 Although, throughout the internship, I was acting as an 


 Ambassador for my university and Australia, at times we felt 


 like we were acting as ambassadors for those kids who were 


 stuck on the streets of America. Helping the Congressman to 


 produce this piece of legislation was one of the most 


 rewarding and proudest moments of my life.



 Being a final year law student from Deakin University, I 


 was given the chance to make a small, yet tangible 


 contribution in the most powerful Government in the world. 


 Through this, I discovered that the opportunity to make a 


 difference is out there for each and every one of us. As the 


 playwright, George Bernard Shaw once wrote, 'Dream things 


 that never were and say, why not?'
