---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `9ee629d29a6705959e187b0935adae87`
`Mr. DREIER — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my California colleague and 
congratulate him on his stellar leadership on this and a wide range of 
other issues.

As I came to the floor just as our colleague the distinguished 
majority leader, the gentleman from Maryland, was addressing this House 
and he talked about politicization of statements that have been made, I 
will tell you, Mr. Speaker, when Saddam Hussein was toppled, it was not 
a celebration of one political party over another. It was not even a 
celebration just of Americans. It was a global celebration over the 
fact that we took this butcher who had murdered literally hundreds of 
thousands of his people, and we brought his reign of terror to an end, 
and that was worth celebrating.

Now, what we saw yesterday was nothing but partisanship because we 
know there is a real divide here. We know that the country is divided, 
and we know and the President of the United States, Mr. Speaker, has 
acknowledged that mistakes have been made, and we have gone through 
real difficulty.

I also heard the majority leader talk about the fact that there is no 
definition of victory. Mr. Speaker, it has been very clear from the 
beginning victory consists of two factors that are very important. 
First, we need to make sure that we have an Iraqi military force, the 
ISF, the Iraqi security force, able to defend the country, and we need 
to make sure that there is a government that can govern the country.

Those are the two items that have been placed forward. That is all we


want. We have seen self-determination take place with three elections 
that have taken place in Iraq. We have seen, I believe, positive news 
come forward.

Now, Mr. Speaker, we constantly hear people describe this as the Bush 
plan. We hear the litany of others, and as my friend from Tennessee 
(Mr. Wamp) just said, we know that the President is not terribly 
popular. The President knows that he is not very popular. He likes to 
say everyone likes to be loved, but I would rather be right than be 
loved.

So we know that the President obviously does not have a high approval 
rating right now, but he is doing the right thing. He is doing the 
right thing, and I believe, Mr. Speaker, that this goal is a very 
valiant one and a very, very important one for us to pursue. We have to 
bring about some kind of bipartisan resolution.

I am very pleased to have indications come from our friends on the 
other side of the aisle about the fact that we are going to provide 
important funding for our troops. We have to do that. That is 
absolutely essential, but we need to realize that we are in the midst 
of a new strategy.

I had the opportunity to talk with my good friend Mr. Murtha, the 
distinguished chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, the 
other day, and we agree that we have got to come to some kind of 
bipartisan resolution of this.

But the important point that needs to be made, as we hear the names 
of these unpopular people, Wolfowitz, Rumsfeld, Bush, thrown out there, 
we have to realize again that this is a new strategy, and this is the 
Petraeus plan. It was Dave Petraeus who last week said, before a large 
bipartisan gathering of Members, that Iraqis today are fighting and 
dying for their country. And it was Dave Petraeus who said, let us have 
until September, at which time I will report back with my colleagues to 
the President of the United States and the Congress.

I talked to, just day before yesterday, a very strong supporter of 
Mr. Kerry's when he was running for President, a strong, committed 
Democrat, and he said that he believed that establishing some sort of 
artificial timeline would be wrong.

The President described it last night following issuance of his veto 
that it clearly would be a prescription for defeat, and I believe that 
we need to make sure that, again, as Dave Petraeus said, since Iraq is 
the central front in the battle against al Qaeda, we need to keep it 
there.

Mr. Speaker, sustain this President's veto. Let's come together and 
provide the necessary funding for our men and women in uniform.