---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9ee8811f6ad9f374bda3356b988ea072`
`Mrs. BOXER — 16 April 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, today I rise to pay tribute to 19 young 
Americans who have been killed in Iraq since November 6, 2007. This 
brings to 831 the number of servicemembers who were either from 
California or based in California who have been killed while serving 
our country in Iraq. This represents 21 percent of all U.S. deaths in 
Iraq.

SPC Peter W. Schmidt, 30, died on November 13, in Mukhisa, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated during 
dismounted combat operations. Specialist Schmidt was assigned to the 
2nd Battalion, 23rd Infantry Regiment, 4th Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 
2nd Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Eureka, CA.

SSgt Alejandro Ayala, 26, died November 18, of injuries sustained as 
a result of a vehicle accident in Kuwait. Staff Sergeant Ayala was 
assigned to the 90th Logistics Readiness Squadron, F.E. Warren Air 
Force Base, WY. He was from Riverside, CA.

SGT Kyle Dayton, 22, died December 3 in Ashwah, Iraq, of injuries 
suffered from a noncombat-related incident. Sergeant Dayton was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 504th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 1st 
Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He was 
from El Dorado Hills, CA.

CPO Mark T. Carter, 27, died December 11 as a result of enemy action 
while conducting combat operations in Iraq. Chief Petty Officer Carter 
was permanently assigned as an East Coast-based


Navy SEAL. He was from Fallbrook, CA.

PFC George J. Howell 24, died December 21 in Riyadh, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his vehicle was attacked by an improvised explosive 
device. Private First Class Howell was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 
87th Infantry Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 10th Infantry 
Division, Light Infantry, Fort Drum, NY. He was from Salinas, CA.

SGT Benjamin B. Portell, 27, died December 26 in Mosul, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered from small arms fire during dismounted combat 
operations. Sergeant Portell was assigned to the 3rd Squadron, 3rd 
Armored Cavalry Regiment, III Corps, Fort Hood, TX. He was from 
Bakersfield, CA.

PFC Ivan E. Merlo, 19, died in Samarra, Iraq, on January 9, of wounds 
sustained during combat operations. Private First Class Merlo was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment, 1st Brigade 
Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, Air Assault, Fort Campbell, KY. 
He was from San Marcos, CA.

SGT David J. Hart, 22, died in Balad, Iraq, on January 9, of wounds 
sustained during combat operations in Samarra, Iraq. Sergeant Hart was 
assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment, 1st Brigade 
Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division, Air Assault, Fort Campbell, KY. 
He was from Lake View Terrace, CA.

SGT James E. Craig, 26, died from wounds suffered when his unit 
encountered an improvised explosive device during convoy operations on 
January 28, in Mosul, Iraq. Sergeant Craig was assigned to the 1st 
Battalion, 8th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry 
Division, Fort Carson, CO. He was from Hollywood, CA.

PFC Brandon A. Meyer, 20, died from wounds suffered when his unit 
encountered an improvised explosive device during convoy operations on 
January 28 in Mosul, Iraq. Private First Class Meyer was assigned to 
the 1st Battalion, 8th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 4th 
Infantry Division, Fort Carson, CO. He was from Orange, CA.

SGT Timothy P. Martin, 27, died February 8 in Taji, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive device. 
Sergeant Martin was assigned to 2nd Squadron, 14th Cavalry Regiment, 
2nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, Schofield 
Barracks, HI. He was from Pixley, CA.

SPC Michael T. Manibog, 31, died February 8 in Taji, Iraq, of wounds 
suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive device. 
Specialist Manibog was assigned to 1st Battalion, 21st Infantry 
Regiment, 2nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, 
Schofield Barracks, HI. He was from Alameda, CA.

LCpl Drew W. Weaver, 20, died February 21 while conducting combat 
operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq. Lance Corporal Weaver was 
assigned to 3rd Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion, 1st Marine 
Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Twentynine Palms, CA.

CPL Jose A. Paniagua-Morales, 22, died March 7, in Balad, Iraq, of 
injuries sustained in Samarra, Iraq, when an improvised explosive 
device detonated near his vehicle. Corporal Paniagua-Morales was 
assigned to C Company, 4th Battalion, 9th Infantry Regiment, 2nd 
Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, WA. He was from Bell Gardens, CA.

PVT George Delgado, 21, died March 24 in Baghdad, Iraq, from wounds 
suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive on March 
23. Private Delgado was assigned to the 4th Battalion, 64th Armor 
Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, Fort Stewart, 
GA. He was from Palmdale, CA.

MAJ William G. Hall, 38, died March 30 from wounds he suffered while 
conducting combat operations in Al Anbar Province, Iraq, on March 29. 
Major Hall was assigned to 3rd Low Altitude Air Defense Battalion, 
Marine Air Control Group 38, 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing, I Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, CA.

SGT Richard A. Vaughn, 22, died April 7, in Baghdad, Iraq, from 
wounds suffered when enemy forces attacked using a rocket propelled 
grenade, improvised explosive device and small arms fire. Sergeant 
Vaughn was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 66th Armor Regiment, 1st 
Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Hood, TX. He was from 
San Diego, CA.

SGT Timothy M. Smith, 25, died April 7, in Baghdad, Iraq of wounds 
suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive device. 
Sergeant Smith was assigned to the 4th Brigade Special Troops 
Battalion, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, Light 
Infantry, located at Fort Polk, LA. He was from South Lake Tahoe, CA.

TSgt Anthony L. Capra, 31, died April 9, near Golden Hills, Iraq, of 
wounds suffered when he encountered an improvised explosive device. 
Technical Sergeant Capra was assigned to Detachment 63, 688 Armament 
Systems Squadron, Indian Head City, MD. He was from Hanford, CA.

I would also like to pay tribute to the eight servicemembers from 
California who have died while serving our country in Operation 
Enduring Freedom since November 6.

SPC Lester G. Roque, 23, died November 10 of wounds sustained when 
his patrol was attacked by direct fire from enemy forces in Aranus, 
Afghanistan, on November 9. Specialist Roque was assigned to 2nd 
Battalion, 503rd Airborne Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade 
Combat Team, Vicenza, Italy. He was from Torrance, CA.

SPC Sean K. A. Langevin, 23, died November 9 of wounds sustained when 
his patrol was attacked by direct fire from enemy forces in Aranus, 
Afghanistan. Specialist Langevin was assigned to 2nd Battalion, 503rd 
Airborne Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team, 
Vicenza, Italy. He was from Walnut Creek, CA.

First Lieutenant Matthew C. Ferrara, 24, died November 9 of wounds 
sustained when his patrol was attacked by direct fire from enemy forces 
in Aranus, Afghanistan. First Lieutenant Ferrara was assigned to 2nd 
Battalion, 503rd Airborne Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade 
Combat Team, Vicenza, Italy. He was from Torrance, CA.

SGT Phillip A. Bocks, 28, died November 9 while conducting combat 
operations in Aranus, Afghanistan. Sergeant Bocks was assigned to 
Marine Corps Mountain Warfare Training Center, Bridgeport, CA.

SrA Nicholas D. Eischen, 24, died December 24, in Bagram Air Base, 
Afghanistan, in a noncombat-related incident. Senior Airman Eischen was 
assigned to the 60th Medical Operations Squadron, Travis Air Force 
Base, CA. He was from Sanger, CA.

SGT James K. Healy, 25, died at Jalalabad Airfield, Afghanistan, of 
wounds sustained when his vehicle struck an improvised explosive device 
on January 7, in Laghar Juy. Sergeant Healy was assigned to the 703rd 
Explosive Ordnance Detachment, Fort Knox, KY. He was from Hesperia, CA.

SGT Robert T. Rapp, 22, died March 3, in the Sabari District of 
Afghanistan, of wounds suffered during combat operations. Sergeant Rapp 
was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 
4th Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He was 
from Sonora, CA.

SGT Gabriel Guzman, 25, died March 8 at Orgun E, Afghanistan, of 
wounds suffered when his vehicle encountered an improvised explosive 
device in Gholam Haydar Kala, Afghanistan. Sergeant Guzman was assigned 
to the 2nd Battalion, 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade 
Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, NC. He was from 
Hornbrook, CA.

May all these brave soldiers, brave marines, brave Navy SEALS and 
sailors, brave airmen--brave all--may they rest in peace. I wish to say 
that if you come to my office in the Hart Building, before you enter, I 
have listed on big charts the names of all the individuals who are 
either from California or assigned in California, and if they passed, 
they are on that listing. We started with one enormous chart, then two, 
three, and four. I am sad to say it is growing.

The reason I wished to mention their names on the floor is because 
sometimes we tend to just look at numbers--and we should--but behind 
those numbers are our children. I am a grandmother. I ache every time I 
sign a letter. Every single one of these brave Americans died doing 
something they wanted to do for their country. Their Commander in Chief 
sent them


into battle, so of course not one of them has died in vain. But I want 
to do all I can--and I say this from my heart--to ensure that when we 
get into a conflict, we know there is a way out and that we can bring 
these conflicts to an end as soon as possible because so many 
sacrifices are being made, and no more so than the loss of America's 
finest.













 Sergeant Heather Springer
