---
---

# ADVANCING AMERICA'S PRIORITIES ACT
## `9eed29e3799f3cd84a3a9dc055dd4d99`
`Mr. REID — 28 July 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, there is a woman who lives in Sparks, NV. 
Her name is Kathie Barrett. She is married and has two children. Sparks 
is a suburb of Reno, NV. When you are there, you cannot tell whether 
you are in Sparks or Reno. The demarcation between the two over the 
years has become insignificant. You cannot tell most of the time 
whether you are in Reno or Sparks.

Kathie, after taking several years off to raise her children, went 
back to work as a librarian's assistant. Six years ago, Kathie was 
diagnosed with ALS, Lou Gehrig's disease. Of course, she was declared 
unable to continue to work.

Her breathing capacity is extremely limited and getting worse every 
day, but in spite of tremendous muscle loss and coordination in her 
neck and back, she and her husband Martin traveled to Washington, DC, 
from Sparks to ask Congress to pass the ALS Registry Act.

She is one of 5,600 Americans who are newly diagnosed every year with 
this fatal disease, Lou Gehrig's disease. There is no cure for the 
disease, and the one FDA-approved drug works for only 20 percent of the 
patients, and even then it merely extends life for a few months.

Lou Gehrig's disease has proven particularly hard for scientists and 
doctors to research, much less cure. One reason is that there is a 
problem: There is no centralized place where the data on this disease 
is collected. Researchers have only a patchwork of information to work 
with.

I introduced the ALS Registry Act last year to create a database at 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to centralize research 
and information on Lou Gehrig's disease. This legislation would not 
guarantee a cure for Kathie and thousands of other Americans who 
suffer, but for the first time it would give them hope for new 
treatment and the prospect of a cure.

I was happy to see the House of Representatives embrace my 
legislation by an overwhelming vote of 411 to 3--411 to 3. When the ALS 
Registry Act reached the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Committee here in the Senate, it passed unanimously. It seemed at the 
time this worthy initiative was headed toward swift passage. Yet one 
Republican Senator prevented it from passing. Kathie Barrett continues 
to wait for Congress to act. Tens of thousands of others continue to 
suffer, as doctors and scientists are unable to gather and access the 
information that could help them.

The same Republican Senator who continued to hold up passage of the 
ALS Registry Act has, unfortunately, done the same for dozens of other 
worthy and overwhelmingly bipartisan bills. A few of these bills 
include, in this package alone, the Emmitt Till Unsolved Crimes bill. 
Emmitt Till's brother was here testifying about the importance of this 
legislation within the past week or so. This bill would help heal old 
wounds and provide the Department of Justice and the FBI tools needed 
to effectively investigate and prosecute unsolved civil rights era 
murders, and there are lots of them.

Another one of the bills is the runaway and homeless youth bill, 
which would provide grants for health care, education, and workforce 
programs, and housing programs for runaways and homeless youth, which 
is essential. We need that passed.

Another one of the bills is the combating child exploitation bill, 
which would provide grants to train law enforcement to use technology 
to track individuals who trade in child pornography and establish an 
Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force.

Another one of the bills is the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis 
Act, which would enhance cooperation in research, rehabilitation, and 
quality of life for people who suffer from paralysis.

We tried to pass each of these bills separately, but we have had to 
face approximately 90 filibusters in the last 18 months. Each one of 
these filibusters takes about--if you put them together, it takes over 
a week. So we have been unable to do these one at a time.

Our efforts to pass these bills separately have been stalled by the 
objection of one Senator. All Senators should refuse to let that 
senseless objection be the last word on these important measures.

We have packaged these and other bills in the Advancing America's 
Priorities Act, to give the Senate the chance to overcome this 
senseless obstructing of our Nation's business.

Not a single one of the 35 bills in this package that has been 
packaged into one are partisan, nor are they controversial.

These bills have been passed by the House of Representatives 
overwhelmingly and their respective Senate committees with overwhelming 
support from Democrats and from Republicans.

The prime Republican obstructor to these bills asserts that he 
opposes them because they cost too much. That argument reflects an 
intentional mischaracterization of the legislative process. This is an 
authorization bill, not an appropriations bill. For those uninitiated 
in the ways of Congress, an authorization bill does not create 1 penny 
of spending. The Senator preventing this legislation from passing knows 
this, but he continues this facade. Spending decisions are made through 
an entirely separate budget and appropriations process. The 
appropriations process is when our limited Federal resources are 
divided. If Republicans or this Senator want to argue against any of 
these programs during the appropriations process, they have every right 
to do that.

In fact, the appropriations process affords them three separate 
opportunities: in the subcommittee, the full committee, and the Senate 
floor.

All these authorization bills do is move these initiatives forward in 
the legislative process. It allows them to be considered for the 
appropriations process. If we do not authorize them now, they will not 
be eligible for consideration during the appropriations process. Voting 
against them now would deny Congress the opportunity to fund any of 
them.

So do I hope that most, if not all, of these initiatives will be 
funded during the appropriations process? Absolutely.

I no longer am a member of the Appropriations Committee. I had been 
for 25 years or so, but I am not now because of my other 
responsibilities. So I hope they are all funded, but that is a 
different arm. I don't make that decision.

Congress must always be watchful and prudent with the taxpayers' 
dollars, and the person objecting to these is no more prudent than any 
of the other 99 Senators regarding the taxpayers' dollar.



I am as alarmed as anyone that President Bush and his Republican 
allies in Congress have allowed the national debt to increase by over 
$3 trillion over the last 7/1/2/ years. I am as alarmed as anyone that 
we continue to spend $5,000 a second in Iraq, funding a $12 billion war 
every month with borrowed money, putting it on credit--a big credit 
card--and sending the bill to our children and our grandchildren. I am 
as alarmed as anyone to hear this morning that there will be a record 
budget deficit in 2009 of about half a trillion dollars. The fiscal 
irresponsibility of this administration will be President Bush's 
legacy.

However, this package of bills, including the ALS registry I have 
talked about, helping runaways and homeless children, providing the 
Justice Department with tools to fight unresolved crimes, and cracking 
down on child pornography--these are all priorities, and priorities of 
all of us, Democrats and Republicans. We should all embrace these 
priorities. They will not add a single penny to the Bush budget 
deficit.

You don't have to take my word for it. The independent Congressional 
Budget Office, which is not partisan, has reviewed the Advancing 
America's Priorities Act and reports this:




 Those authorizations do not cause changes in Federal 


 spending or revenues.


I ask unanimous consent that the statement--in fact, it is a letter 
from the Congressional Budget Office, signed by Peter Orszag, who is 
the Director, copies of which were sent to two members of the 
committee, one to Chairman Conrad and one to Judd Gregg. I ask 
unanimous consent to have this letter printed in the Record.