# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `9eefad298c57063737a85f62a85b5179`
`Mr. CORNYN — 12 May 2009`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, today I am reintroducing the Military 
Voting Protection Act--a bipartisan bill to support our troops and 
protect their right to vote. In every Federal election in recent 
memory, American Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines have 
encountered substantial roadblocks in the voting process, especially 
those who are deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. This is a national 
disgrace.

Our military service members put their lives on the line to protect 
the rights and freedoms of all Americans. In return, it is our 
responsibility to do everything we can to support them. The nature of 
the Global War on Terror and the high tempo of U.S. military 
operations--including our surge into Afghanistan--will necessitate 
overseas service by our troops for the foreseeable future. It is 
imperative that we put in place a system to ensure that American 
service members serving abroad can participate in the democratic 
process even as they simultaneously fight to defend our democracy, its 
institutions, and the American way of life. Surely, these brave men and 
women have earned at least that much through their blood, sweat, and 
tears.

Yet the country they defend has repeatedly denied our troops one of 
our most sacred rights--the right to vote. The U.S. Election Assistance 
Commission, in studying the 2006 election, found that only 47.6 percent 
of the military voters who requested absentee ballots were actually 
successful in casting those ballots. That means that less than half of 
those troops who wanted to vote were able to do so,


which is appalling. Overall participation rates among military and 
overseas voters in the November 2006 election were also extremely low. 
Looking at the big picture, there were roughly 6 million eligible 
military and overseas U.S. voters at that time, but only 16.5 percent 
of them were able to request an absentee ballot for the election. 
According to a 2006 DoD Inspector General report, only 59 percent of 
surveyed service members even knew where to obtain voting information 
on their installation, and only 40 percent had actually received 
assistance from their designated Voting Assistance Officer. Though the 
official data from the 2008 election is not yet available, the 
preliminary evidence indicates that our military voters faced the same 
array of problems in trying to cast their ballots as in previous 
elections.

Our troops report many procedural hurdles when trying to participate 
in federal, state, and local elections. States have inadequate 
processes and unreasonable timelines in place for transmitting blank 
absentee ballots to our troops, and the methods available to these 
service members for returning completed ballots to local election 
officials are both slow and antiquated. Moreover, there are a myriad of 
absentee voting rules and regulations that are extremely confusing and 
vary widely with each state. The process is clearly broken, and there 
is no excuse for not stepping up to challenge the status quo and 
streamline the process. We ask so much of our troops, and in return we 
have given them a voting system that is perplexing, frustrating, slow, 
and often dysfunctional. They deserve better.

The bill I introduce today can help address some of these procedural 
hurdles. The Military Voting Protection, MVP, Act will give our troops 
a louder and clearer voice at the polls by ensuring their absentee 
ballots are delivered back home in time to be counted and do not get 
lost on the way. It will reduce delays in the absentee voting process 
by requiring the Department of Defense to take a more active role in 
the process. The MVP Act will require the DoD to be responsible for 
collecting completed absentee ballots from overseas troops and then 
express-shipping them back to the U.S. in time to be counted, allowing 
troops to track their ballots while they are in transit and confirm 
their delivery after they arrive at local election offices.

I am pleased that Senators Wyden and Inhofe have joined me in this 
effort; it is a testament to their unwavering support for the members 
of our Armed Forces.

We should pass this bipartisan bill quickly so that elections 
officials have time to prepare for the 2010 election cycle. Meaningful 
reform will not come overnight, but now is the time to take up the 
cause of military voters. There are 18 months until the next election, 
which is enough time to implement significant improvements. If we fail, 
further disenfranchisement of military voters will likely result. We 
must avoid a repeat of 2004, 2006, and 2008.

This bill does not solve all the problems with our current military 
voting system, but it is an important first step. The Americans who 
answer the call to serve are a national treasure, and I remain in awe 
of their selfless sacrifice and commitment to the defense of freedom. 
In what is now the 8th year of the Global War on Terror, they continue 
to voluntarily step forward to defend our Nation and our freedom--often 
requiring immeasurable personal sacrifice by them and their loved ones. 
The members of this next ''greatest generation'' deserve nothing less 
than the same constitutional rights and individual liberties that they 
safeguard for their fellow citizens back home. It is the responsibility 
of Congress to ensure that they get them.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.