# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `9eef5f3dd1a73b7ad57b03ba75f276f0`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 22 October 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam President, I want to take a moment to reflect on 
the life and service of SSG Eric Thomas Duckworth of the 759th Military 
Police Battalion, 89th Military Police Brigade, stationed at Fort 
Carson, CO. Sergeant Duckworth was killed when a bomb detonated near 
his vehicle as he was leading a convoy through Baghdad. He was 26 years 
old--a father, a son, a husband, and a proud soldier.

Sergeant Duckworth grew up in Plano, TX, an active young man with 
dreams of serving his country. He played baseball and football in high 
school and, in the time not devoted to studies and athletics, devoted 
himself to the ROTC. It was clear from an


early age that Eric was a leader among his peers; in ROTC he was 
quickly selected to a leadership role and to represent his high school 
at a national ROTC council.

True to his dreams, Eric joined the Army just a few days after his 
1999 graduation from high school. After serving in the military, Eric 
aimed to find a career in law enforcement. From what his family says of 
him and from what I know from having worked with peace officers as 
Colorado's attorney general, he would have been a great fit in any 
police department. He was selfless, hard working, and friendly. He did 
his job with a smile and a laugh.

He was also an experienced and steady military police officer who was 
deeply committed to helping bring peace and security to a war-torn 
country. He was the type of American soldier who GEN Douglas MacArthur 
regaled in a 1962 address to West Point soldiers for their selfless 
sacrifices and for their unflinching devotion to the protection of our 
Nation. ''Duty, honor, country,'' MacArthur told the young soldiers, 
''Those three hallowed words reverently dictate what you ought to be, 
what you can be, what you will be.''

These three words have been the creed of generation after generation 
of American soldiers. They help us understand the courage and fortitude 
that allow men like Eric Duckworth to serve two tours of duty thousands 
of miles from his family, to live in constant peril, and to shoulder 
the responsibility for keeping his soldiers safe while securing a 
brighter future for Iraqi citizens.

Duty, honor, country. ''The code which those words perpetuate,'' said 
General MacArthur, ''embraces the highest moral law and will stand the 
test of any ethics or philosophies ever promulgated for the things that 
are right and its restraints are from the things that are wrong. The 
soldier, above all other men, is required to practice the greatest act 
of religious training--sacrifice . . . However hard the incidents of 
war may be, the soldier who is called upon to offer and to give his 
life for his country is the noblest development of mankind.''

SSG Eric Thomas Duckworth thoroughly embodied this creed: he donned 
the soldier's uniform at his first opportunity, he led his men on the 
battlefield, and he both offered and gave his life in service to his 
country. His is a debt we cannot repay.

To Sergeant Duckworth's wife Sonya, to his children Michael, Madison, 
and Kaylynn, to his brother Andrew, and to his parents Michael and Ila, 
I cannot imagine the pain that you must feel. I can only hope that in 
time your grief will be salved by the pride you must feel for his 
devotion to his country and his love for his family. Eric was a man of 
courage, dignity, and selflessness. As he lies in rest at Arlington 
National Cemetery, amid the thousands of crosses of America's fallen 
heroes, may you know that his sacrifice will never be forgotten, his 
legacy always honored.










 Sergeant First Class Rocky H. Herrera
