---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `9ef592832110ce24d4a5d285f1ebdb78`
`Mr. REID — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, we all know it is rare for the Senate to 
hold a Saturday vote, but the issue before us is too important to wait. 
There are challenges facing America today, but there is no greater 
challenge facing America today than finding a new direction in Iraq.

Every Senator in this Chamber has a responsibility and an obligation 
to say whether they support or oppose the President's plan to escalate 
the war. Yesterday the House of Representatives acted, 246 to 180, no 
escalation. Now it is the turn of this body, the Senate, to give advice 
to the President that he is wrong in sending tens of thousands more 
American soldiers to a civil war in far away Iraq.

In a few moments, a vote will occur on a straightforward resolution 
which simply states that we support our troops and oppose escalation of 
the intractable Iraq war. My colleagues on the other side of this 
Senate Chamber, colleagues who blocked an Iraq debate last week, have a 
choice to make. Do they intend to join the American people in opposing 
more of the same in Iraq or do they intend to continue to give the 
President a green light to escalate the war? Let the debate proceed. 
Let the Senate express its views on the issue of our time.

This month, the Iraq war has cost the lives of three American 
soldiers every day, putting us on pace for the bloodiest February since 
the war began. It is threatening our Nation's strategic interests and 
risking our Nation's security. Today, America has lost 3,133 soldiers 
in the streets and highways of a place called Iraq.