---
---

# ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT
## `9ef62a0b2224e960050311f6d5bd0aeb`
`Mr. WEINER — 8 February 2007`

---


Mr. WEINER. I move to strike the last word.

Mr. Chairman, this can't possibly be the best they have got. This 
can't be. I cannot imagine that a party that governed for the last 12-
some-odd years, who had a Congress that met less days than the do-
nothing Congress, who wasted billions of dollars in the Iraq war doing 
no oversight, drove up the deficit to record heights, wasted homeland 
security funds, it can't possibly be that the best that party has is to 
now devote an afternoon talking about the security arrangements for the 
Speaker of the United States House of Representatives.

Well, let's talk a little bit about what we have. Putting aside for a 
moment, which apparently is what the other side wants, putting aside 
for a moment the bill we are here to debate, which is a way to improve 
energy programs with existing infrastructure, and I can guarantee my 
colleagues will be lining up to take advantage of that program, we 
have, in the first 100 hours of this Congress, raised the minimum wage; 
we have lowered the cost of people to send their children to college; 
we have implemented the 9/11 Commission Report. We have moved through 
an agenda with efficiency to get things done for the American people, 
and now my colleagues on the other side want to have an argument with 
the White House over the appropriate arrangements for the Speaker.

Now, look, I am sure that my good friends on the other side are so 
detached from reality that they think this is what the American people 
want to work on. This is a party that squandered the leadership that 
they had. Now the Republic Party is in the minority for the foreseeable 
future. The Republic Party is so completely bankrupt of any ideas of 
their own, they have taken to bringing up 3 hours of discussion and a 
debate between the White House and themselves about what kind of 
security the Speaker should have.

The Republic Party is the minority party not only for this reason, 
but this is one of them. And then to make it worse, the Members that 
the Republic Party sends over can't possibly be the


A team. This can't be the best. This can't be the most articulate, most 
informed voices of the Republic Party, can it? This is it.

I was in my office and I heard a Member of the Republic Party, and 
you will correct me, Mr. Chairman, if I am wrong, complaining that he 
had to sit in a middle seat. No, not a middle seat. Complaining that he 
had to eat peanuts on his flight. I don't even know what this is about.

Let me tell you what the American people are interested in. They are 
interested in the idea that, like Damocles' sword, global warming is 
now hanging over the head of all of us, all of us, Republican or 
Democratic, even the Republic Party must be concerned about that. We 
have had thousands of scientists that have reached a consensus----