# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `9ef7b16c625431364096fc23f4494afe`
`Mr. HOBSON â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. HOBSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 1591, the 
Fiscal Year 2007 U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq 
Accountability Supplemental Appropriations Act, because, in my opinion, 
it sends the wrong message to our troops, our allies and the Iraqi 
people, who really want to take care of and control of their own 
country.

In my opinion, this bill will tie the hands of the commanders in the 
field by micromanaging from Washington the military decisions that 
those commanders ought to be making on the ground. Further, by setting 
a date-certain timeline requirement for withdrawing our troops, in my 
opinion it will endanger U.S. personnel and give our enemies a date to 
wait us out.

Mr. Speaker, this bill not only sends the wrong message to our troops 
about their efforts to bring stability to Iraq, it sends the wrong one 
to our allies throughout the world. In my opinion, it says that if you 
bloody us enough, we are going to walk away.

If we walk away, our credibility is gone in the world. We will be 
abandoning the thousands of Iraqis who risked their lives and voted for 
freedom, and risk bringing dishonor to the men and women who have 
fought and died in this war.

One thing that strikes me about the debate of this bill and the 
recent one on H. Res. 63, the Iraqi war resolution, is that there is 
little or no discussion on what the Iraqis are willing to do to bring 
themselves closer to taking control of their own country.



Earlier this year I went on a bipartisan congressional delegation 
trip to Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. While we met with U.S. troops 
and commanders, we also had a chance to meet with the leaders of those 
countries, including Iraqi Prime Minister al-Maliki. He told us if his 
country had the command and control, equipment and our backing, the 
Iraqis could begin to take over their own security in 3 to 6 months and 
that we could be able to redeploy 50,000 U.S. troops at that time.

Mr. Speaker, we need to make sure that President Maliki has the tools 
and resources to be successful. For those who are looking for a timely 
withdrawal of troops, why shouldn't we be focusing on giving him and 
his plan a chance, rather than setting arbitrary withdrawal deadlines? 
The quicker that the Iraqi people take control of their country, the 
quicker U.S. troops can begin to withdraw with dignity. This bill, I 
don't believe, moves us further in that direction.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to send our own message to the 
leadership of this body that our troops and commanders in the field 
deserve a bill that will support them in their efforts to bring 
stability to Iraq.

Finally, I am troubled by the way the new majority has restricted the 
debate, for even while we are encouraging the Iraqi people and their 
leaders to become more democratic, the House of Representatives, in my 
opinion, is moving in the opposite direction.

During the last elections, much was made about maintaining a fair and 
open process in the people's House, and I shared that. Frankly, I don't 
think we did when we were in the majority enough on that. This bill, 
however, is back to even worse than that because it is being considered 
under conditions that are neither fair nor open. Specifically, no 
amendments are allowed, and no alternatives can be considered on this 
most important bill.

Mr. Speaker, a bill with such historical importance needs to have 
open and fair debate. That is the way this type of bill has always been 
considered, I thought, before. That is what the American people were 
promised last fall. I, frankly, deeply regret that this is not now 
occurring today.