---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `9efb5ccf97af21c8650aa40b20baf961`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. I appreciate the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Thornberry) 
for yielding me the time.

Mr. Speaker, on Monday night the Rules Committee met and after hours 
of testimony from members of both parties, the Democrat members of the 
committee voted along party lines to shut out every opportunity for 
amendments to be a part of this debate of this


resolution today that we will be debating for the next 2 days.

Our colleague from Texas, Congressman Sam Johnson, brought an 
amendment that would have clarified that Congress and the American 
people support our troops and that funding for our Armed Forces serving 
bravely in harm's way should not be cut off or restricted in any way.

Our colleague from Virginia, Frank Wolf, also brought to the Rules 
Committee a very comprehensive amendment that would have made clear 
that Congress supports the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, 
with its emphasis on providing American commanders serving in Iraq with 
the strategy and tactical means that they need for success and 
accelerating cooperation with Iraqi leaders to meet specific goals, as 
the strategy for moving forward to success in Iraq.

A number of other Members also spent a lot of their evening sitting 
in the Rules Committee waiting to share their ideas about how to 
improve this resolution which thus would help America in our message to 
not only the President but also the world. However, the 13 members of 
the Rules Committee are the only ones who had the benefit of hearing 
and debating these good ideas because none of them were given the 
opportunity to be considered and voted on by the House. Instead, rather 
than allowing this body to consider good ideas, today we are continuing 
debate on the floor with a completely closed process to debate a 
nonbinding resolution with no teeth and serious logistical flaws.

In two short paragraphs, without explicitly stating that funds will 
not be cut off for our troops that serve in harm's way, the resolution 
asserts that Congress and the American people will continue to support 
the members of the Armed Forces who are serving in Iraq. This 
nonspecific language is something that every single Member of this 
House already supports. It also states that Congress disapproves of the 
President's plan to deploy 20,000 reinforcements to Iraq to bolster the 
mission and provide additional support to the troops already there 
serving on the ground. This resolution gives no direction on how we 
should proceed in Iraq. Instead, it settles for some generic language 
about supporting the troops without guaranteeing that Congress will 
continue to fund their efforts and stand behind them as they remain in 
harm's way. And it simply amounts to a vote for the status quo.

Mr. Speaker, this is a serious debate about the serious challenges 
that America faces in not only this fight in Iraq but also against 
Islamic terrorism. We all understand the cost of failure in Iraq is too 
great to bear. It would embolden radical Islamic terrorists and give 
them a base from which to train from and to attack America for 
generations. But with this resolution, my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle provide the troops with nothing: no guarantees that we 
will continue to fund their heroic efforts; no guarantees that Congress 
will heed the advice of the Iraq Study Group, which notes on page 73 of 
their report that it would ''support a short-term redeployment or surge 
of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad, or to speed up the 
training and equipping mission.'' Nor does this resolution provide the 
American people with a clear picture of our direction in Iraq. It 
simply says ''no.'' It says ''no'' to the only strategy for success 
that has been placed forward. President Bush said, ''If you disagree 
with me, then come outthink me.'' This resolution in its simple form 
does not do that.

Mr. Speaker, I think Congress can do better than this nonbinding 
resolution for the status quo of Iraq. I know that a number of my 
Republican colleagues tried to improve this legislation but were denied 
that opportunity. But I know that our troops serving in harm's way and 
the American people deserve better than this simplistic resolution that 
provides no new ideas, outlines no strategy for victory, and makes no 
guarantees that we will continue to stand behind our troops with 
funding. I am greatly disappointed in this resolution and the Democrat 
majority's efforts to prevent this body from considering meaningful 
amendments.