---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 101, FURTHER  CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `9efec42f1c381f27855df590d38ba9f4`
`Mr. POLIS — 1 December 2010`

---


Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1741 provides a closed rule for 
consideration of H.J. Res. 101, making further continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2011, and for other purposes. The rule 
provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the 
joint resolution except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. 
The rule provides that the joint resolution shall be considered as 
read. The rule waives all points of order against provisions of the 
joint resolution. Finally, the rule provides one motion to recommit the 
joint resolution with or without instructions.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of approving a continuing 
resolution to maintain a level and consistent funding stream for our 
Federal Government. It is one of our primary constitutional 
responsibilities as Members of Congress to keep the Federal Government 
running through the passage of appropriations legislation. This 
continuing resolution will ensure that all necessary and vital 
functions of government will continue uninterrupted until both Chambers 
of our legislature have completed their work.

If we do not act now, Mr. Speaker, the Federal Government will 
effectively shut down this Friday, December 3. This continuing 
resolution is a short term, straightforward measure to keep the 
government running and get us through the next 2 weeks, until December 
18, while bipartisan negotiations continue in the House and the Senate. 
It is my hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will work 
with us to move this important bill forward and to pass a clean 
continuing resolution contained under this rule.

This continuing resolution will fund the Federal Government at levels 
already approved by the House in the fiscal year 2010 appropriations 
bills and the fiscal year 2009 supplementals. This includes extending 
the authority for the Department of Defense to execute the Commanders 
Emergency Response Program, an essential tool for military commanders 
in Iraq and Afghanistan.



It would also continue the application period for retroactive stop 
loss benefits through the duration of the continuing resolution.

The Retroactive Stop Loss Pay Program provides $500 for each month 
served in stop loss status with an average benefit of $3,700 to the 
brave servicemen and -women, veterans and beneficiaries of those whose 
service was involuntarily extended under stop loss.

This continuing resolution would also continue to fund VA hospitals 
already under construction, including one in my home State of Colorado, 
the Denver VA Hospital, which serves 58,000 veterans living in 
Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, and Wyoming. Millions of veterans and their 
families across this Nation depend on the VA for medical care and 
support, and we must pass this CR so we continue to build these much-
needed facilities. Absent this CR, construction on these VA facilities 
will grind to a halt, leaving our veterans in the lurch. Our veterans 
took an oath to defend our country, and they deserve to come home to 
better care and a quality hospital that meets their needs.

This CR would also allow the Federal air marshals to maintain the 
existing fiscal year 2010 fourth quarter coverage levels for 
international and domestic flights. This funding will allow for 
continued training, including investigative techniques, criminal 
terrorist behavior recognition, firearms proficiency, aircraft specific 
tactics, and self-defense measures that are necessary to protect the 
flying public.

This funding allows the Federal air marshals to fulfill their mission 
of protecting air passengers and crew. Protecting our Nation and 
combating terrorism is a top priority for this Congress, and without 
the passage of this CR, those efforts with regard to our air marshals 
will grind to a halt, leaving the traveling public at greater risk.

This continuing resolution would also allow the commissioner of U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection to maintain the level of Customs and 
Border Protection personnel in place for the final quarter and the 
final few weeks of fiscal year 2010. This provides proper funding to 
keep terrorists and their weapons out of the United States, secure and 
facilitate trade and travel and enforce hundreds of U.S. regulations, 
including immigration and drug laws.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection law enforcement professionals 
serve as America's front-line defense on our Nation's borders at ports 
of entry, field stations and check points across the United States. 
It's important that we maintain a consistent level of personnel at our 
Nation's borders. By interrupting these funds, we would be jeopardizing 
Customs and Border Protection's ability to do their job and protect 
America. This funding enables these officers to inspect our borders, 
process trade, combat terrorism and smuggling.

A vote against this continuing resolution is a vote to gut our border 
security when we need it the most.

In addition to extending the existing authority for the Department of 
Homeland Security to regulate chemical facilities to prevent high 
levels of risk, this continuing resolution would also extend the 
existing Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA authority, to 
provide technical and financial assistance to States and localities for 
pre-disaster hazard mitigation activity.

As an example, in my home State of Colorado, this continuing 
resolution would mean keeping in place vital programs like the 2008 
Colorado Springs Wildfire Mitigation Project that removes vegetation 
around critical facilities and communities; to the 2008 Denver Regional 
Hazard Mitigation Plan, which assists 37 communities, townships, and 
counties in the Denver metro area in analyzing and assessing their 
hazard risks; the 2007 Coal Creek Crossing affecting the town of Erie 
in Boulder County, Colorado, flood reduction project that helps the 
town of Erie modify infrastructure around the Coal Creek Crossing to 
eliminate future damages.

My district, Mr. Speaker, recently suffered one of the worst forest 
fires in the history of Colorado, which completely destroyed over 100 
residences. These emergencies can strike anywhere, anytime; and if we 
fail to pass this continuing resolution, we will cripple the ability of 
the Federal Government to help with emergencies wherever they occur and 
whatever their nature is.

This continuing resolution would also maintain the additional $23 
million in funding for the Department of the Interior's new Bureau of 
Ocean Energy Management for increased inspections for offshore oil 
rigs. In light of the recent disaster we all witnessed unfold this 
summer in the Gulf of Mexico, these funds should be the last thing that 
we want to allow to expire or to cut. These funds are critical to 
ensure that tragedies like the Deepwater Horizon spill are not repeated 
and that our oil rigs are inspected.

These funds allow existing rigs to continue operating in a manner 
that protects the workers on the rigs in the sensitive environmental 
areas in which these rigs operate, as well as protect our economy from 
future job loss. Interrupting these funds will put offshore oil rig 
workers' lives in danger, the environment in danger, and our economy in 
danger as well.

The continuing resolution before us also maintains the current rate 
of the Foreign Military Financing, FMF, program, to include the $965 
million that was advanced for Israel, Egypt, and Jordan in the fiscal 
year 2009 supplemental. By providing assistance and aid to our allies 
in the Middle East, we strengthen our position and make a vital 
investment in global and national security.

A vote against this continuing resolution is a vote to cut off aid to 
our allies like Israel and the Middle East at a time when they are 
critical for the global fight against terrorism and to prevent the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons to Iran.

Through this continuing resolution, we also continue the rate of 
operations


for the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund at $700 million. 
This section also continues the terms and conditions included in the 
fiscal year 2009 and 2010 supplementals which will help build and 
maintain the counterinsurgency capability of Pakistan under the same 
terms and conditions.

Mr. Speaker, I have not been a supporter of the escalation of efforts 
in Afghanistan or in Iraq, but I think there is a strong bipartisan 
consensus in this body that assisting the Government of Pakistan in 
counterinsurgency efforts is one of the most critical fronts to protect 
Americans from terrorism, from a resurgence of the Taliban and from 
allowing al Qaeda a foothold in that area.

There are vital programs that we must continue to fund without 
interruption. There may be some who question the need for a CR. Let me 
remind everyone that with the exception of fiscal years 1989, 1995 and 
1997, at least one continuing resolution has been enacted for each 
fiscal year since 1955.

I encourage my colleagues to support the necessary rule for this CR 
as well as the underlying CR to prevent the Federal Government from 
shutting down, jeopardizing our allies and friends across the world, as 
well as the safety and security of Americans.

I reserve the balance of my time.