---
---

# SERGEANT PAUL SAYLOR POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `9f1a9b297ac179b5fed3c56859f0ff70`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 8 July 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, I am pleased to join my colleagues, particularly the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey), in the consideration of H.R. 6092 
which names the postal facility in Bremen, Georgia, after a fallen 
hero, Sergeant Paul Saylor.

Introduced on May 20, 2008, H.R. 6092 is sponsored by Congressman 
Phil Gingrey, representative of Georgia's 11th Congressional District 
and cosponsored by the entire Georgia delegation and a total of 43 
Members of Congress. H.R. 6092 was reported from the Oversight 
Committee on June 12, 2008, by voice vote.

Mr. Speaker, a native of Norcross, Georgia, Sergeant Paul Saylor lost 
his life while serving in Iraq. According to military records, Sergeant 
Saylor was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 108th Armor Regiment from the 
Georgia Army National Guard out of Calhoun, Georgia, when he was killed 
on August 15 as a result of his Humvee accidentally rolling over into a 
canal in Mahmudiyah, Iraq.

Described as a good-hearted, very dedicated and hardworking 
gentleman, Sergeant Saylor served his country proudly and with 
distinction. In honor of sacrifice, Mr. Speaker, let us also pay 
tribute to the life of Sergeant Saylor and pass H.R. 6092 and designate 
the Tallapoosa Street post office building in Bremen, Georgia, after 
this fine American soldier.

I reserve the balance of my time.