---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `9f301d2b1e19c3387a8b14d3d18c8c4d`
`Mr. WARNER — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I think the President can still act within that language 
right there--defend the national security of the United States against 
the continuing threat posed by Iraq. The Government of Iraq that 
existed at the time this was written is gone; that was Saddam Hussein. 
There is a new government there. But they, unfortunately, have not 
exercised the full control, the full reins of sovereignty that the 
people of Iraq, voting freely, have given them. We set up the 
structure, the infrastructure that enabled those votes to take place, 
and we gave them a measure of security so that they could go to the 
polls and vote. But, in my judgment, this language still underpins the 
President's actions.

I would remind the Senator, in a way, each authorization act of the 
armed services, since enactment of this law, in a sense de facto 
confirms the President's authority that he is exercising under it. We 
never challenged him in a single--I think I counted up 4 authorization 
bills and probably 10 different appropriations bills that have been 
passed authorizing the President to use these funds.

Again, it is sort of de facto recognition that the language still 
stands. But my thought is that the American people, the world is 
entitled to Congress addressing it and, hopefully, we can resolve it 
and put down in greater detail the authority that the Congress wishes 
to give the President as he moves forward, having hopefully given the 
Congress the benefit of such revisions in policy as he deems necessary 
in early October this year.