# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `9f492e022842021531a2249ce251816a`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 17 December 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, it is very distressing that Senator 
Stabenow could not finish her remarks and that other Senators such as 
Senator Whitehouse and Senator Levin and Senator Lieberman have been 
shorted of time. Why? Because, for some reason, the majority leader 
feels we should not go past 5:30 tonight.

This is a defense bill, and it is important. We need to be talking 
about the good things that are in it and the things that have been 
added to it that are not so good. I do not think working a few extra 
hours is going to hurt anybody.

I hear colleagues complain that they cannot work a weekend, they 
cannot work up to Christmas, they cannot work at night. Well, what 
about our men and women who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan 7 days 
a week, 12 hours a day, Christmas and holidays? They are away from 
their families so I do not have any sympathy for any Member of the 
Senate who feels this is too hard for them. Also, I do not appreciate 
the fact that we are shut off from debate tonight to be able to talk 
about this issue that is before us. I see no reason for that to have to 
occur.

I object to the health care bill. The American people object to the 
health care bill--sixty-one percent say no. But we are supposed to now 
agree and go along with the majority? And if we do not, we are some 
sort of obstructionists? I do not think so. I believe I am representing 
my constituency. I believe I am representing the best interests of the 
United States of America. I do not believe this health care bill is 
part of that.

With regard to the armed services bill--I am a member of the Armed 
Services Committee, and I have been a Member for 12 years; I have been 
to Iraq six times and Afghanistan six times--I believe it is great we 
can give our soldiers a pay raise and support them. A lot of things in 
the bill are good. There are some that are cut too much, but there are 
a lot of things that are good, and I wish to vote for the bill. But 
this defense bill has $18 billion in unrelated spending items attached 
it: increased unemployment, COBRA, food stamps, and loan subsidies for 
businesses.

Two things strike me about this. First, these new expenditures are 
not paid for. They are not within the budget. They are above the 
budget. What does that mean? Well, the budget itself has us in deficit. 
So if it is not paid for in the budget resolution, every penny of this 
$18 billion goes straight to the debt of the United States of America. 
We need to stop this.

Second, why did they put this kind of spending on the defense bill? 
Because they want to come down here and say: Anybody who is not willing 
to go along with this scheme to pad $18 billion straight to the debt of 
the United States of America--anybody who objects does not love our 
soldiers.

That is wrong, and people are getting tired of that. This is how the 
debt of this country is surging out of control.


This Congress is irresponsible in our spending. We have increased the 
debt the likes of which this Nation has never seen, and we are spending 
as if it is going out of style.

I would point out one matter here about the interest we pay on the 
debt. In 2008, the annual deficit was $450 billion--at that time, the 
largest ever. This past year, the deficit for the fiscal year ending 
September 30 was $1,400 billion, $1.4 trillion. This puts us on the 
map, according to the Congressional Budget Office, to double the entire 
debt of America in 5 years, and triple it in 10. Unbelievable.

This is a kind of gimmick--attaching unpaid for, nonbudgeted items to 
the defense bill, then trying to force it through, so we cannot do 
anything about it. They snicker, I am sure, in their self-confident way 
that: We got 'em. If they object to the bill, we will say they don't 
love our soldiers, they don't support America's defense.

I am getting tired of it. I think the American people are getting 
tired of it. I saw a poll where the most popular party in America today 
is the tea party--more than Republicans or Democrats.

Somebody said: Well, $18 billion, Sessions, that is not too much 
money. But it is done on bill after bill. This is not the only bill 
that has these kinds of gimmicks in it. Let me show you. I figured this 
out one day. I put together a chart here a little bit hastily: Baseline 
Increases: A Destructive Pattern.

When we increase funding in these bills above the budgeted amount and 
increase the debt, people like to think: Well, it is just $18 billion. 
That is not much.

Look how that works when you do it over a period of ten years. So 
let's say next year, we go over $18 billion. This adds another $18 
billion to the national debt. Well, that is not so much. But wait, it 
is a lot. The State of Alabama's general fund budget is $2 billion. Do 
not tell me $18 billion in one bill, on top of this defense bill, is 
not a lot of money. It is a huge amount of money.

But it does not work that way. This $18 billion tends to go into the 
baseline, so the next year, when they talk about increasing the budget, 
they pad it by another $18 billion. It is not just $18 billion the next 
year, you see. It is $18 billion on top of what was pumped into the 
baseline the year before, and that totals out to $36 billion. Then the 
next year, it is $36 billion, plus $18 billion more. And the next year, 
it is $54 billion, plus $18 billion more. The next year it is $72 
billion, plus $18 billion. The next year, it is $90 billion, plus $18 
billion. And the next years, it is $108 billion, $126 billion, $144 
billion, and $162 billion if you pad the budget. And this bill is just 
1 of 13 accounts: Defense. We have 13 different spending bills. How 
much is that? It is $900 billion in additional deficits, just because 
of our inability, our unwillingness, to stay by the numbers that we 
voted on as our budget limit.


The budget itself, as presented by the President and passed by the 
Democratic majority, put us on a road to having $1.4 trillion in 
deficit last year, and it looks as though this year we are going to 
have a another $1.4 trillion deficit. But just this one little gimmick, 
if it is replicated each year, can add almost $1 trillion more to the 
debt of America over ten years. That is why we are concerned about it.

By the way, when we talk about the scheme that puts us on the road, 
according to the Congressional Budget Office, to tripling the debt of 
America by 2019, that does not include the health care bill. The health 
care bill has not passed. This outlook only includes the things that 
are in law now. So how much more would those figures be if the debt 
goes up?

I will point to one last thing about the overall financial status of 
this country: the interest we pay on that debt. This chart shows it.

Last year, this Nation paid $170 billion in interest on the 
borrowings we have as a nation. In that 1 year it was $170 billion. 
That is a lot of money. As I said, not counting the State education 
budget, for all the other matters of our State of 4.6 million people--
which is almost one-fiftieth of the Nation's population, an average-
sized State--our general fund is $2 billion. However, $170 billion is 
how much we paid in interest last year. According to the Congressional 
Budget Office, those numbers will increase to where in 2019, as a 
result of surging debt, $799 billion will be added to our debt because 
of interest we must pay; $799 billion just in that 1 year. That is more 
than the whole defense budget. That is more than the whole U.S. 
discretionary budget from not too long ago. That is a huge amount of 
money. It is going to crowd out spending for schools, for highways, for 
health care, and for other projects.

I am very upset about it. We cannot continue. The President has said 
this is an unsustainable course. Every economist we talk to says it is 
an unsustainable course.

But how do we get there? We get there by taking a Defense bill and 
tacking on $18 billion worth of unfunded spending. Every penny of that 
gets added to the debt.