---
---

# None
## `9f530ab2d3a28d7f5c817f077b10ae91`
`Mr. WESTMORELAND — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. WESTMORELAND. I want to thank my friend, Mr. Gingrey, for doing 
this and his tireless work on presenting the WHINSEC good faith that 
they do.

Mr. Chairman, it's a shame that every year defenders of the Western 
Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation have to fight for its 
very existence. But the annual efforts of my colleague, Mr. McGovern, 
and others to close this important institution at least gives us a 
regular opportunity to discuss the great work done at WHINSEC in a 
national forum.

It also gives Members of the House a chance to show their support for 
this educational institution that spreads American know-how and 
American values to our neighbors and allies throughout Latin America.

At least since the administration of Woodrow Wilson, presidents and 
congressional leaders of both parties have included promotion of 
democracy throughout our hemisphere and the rest the world as a central 
tenet of U.S. foreign policy. The last 20 years have witnessed 
significant global progress in scores of countries. From the southern 
tip of South America to the northern reaches of Central Europe and 
throughout the Pacific Rim, the oppressed have become liberated.

From the beginning of our Nation, we have belief that the right to 
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness comes not from man or from 
law; those rights are God-given. Thus, we knows as Americans that we 
can't take all the credit for the growth of liberty and human rights, 
but we can take pride that our Nation has served for more than 100 
years as the loudest voice, the greatest advocate and the fiercest 
defender of democracy, liberty and individual determination.

When we must, we wield the stick. We have fought and shed blood for 
democracy on the beaches of Normandy, the jungles of Vietnam and the 
deserts of Iraq.

When we can, we wield the carrot. We promote our values to foreign 
students and our world-leading university system by increasing 
development through trade agreements and through targeted foreign aid.

WHINSEC is a great example of the carrot approach. It's a positive 
influence through soft power. In other words, it's a positive influence 
through education and training.

WHINSEC is based at Fort Benning, the world's largest infantry 
training center, which is in my district. Fort Benning plays a huge 
role in training the U.S. Army, the greatest fighting force in the 
history of the world. Manuals currently used at WHINSEC are identical 
to those used to train all U.S. Army personnel. WHINSEC operates the 
most advanced and sophisticated military human rights training program 
in the world.

Comparable training is not available from any other nation or in any 
other American training facility. Without WHINSEC, Latin American 
militaries would not have any access to training in military human 
rights.

In the past 20 to 30 years, we have seen great transition in the 
Latin American countries from the chains of totalitarianism towards the 
freedom of democracy. We have seen democratically elected governments 
become more stable, we have seen progress on free trade and more open 
markets, and we have seen economic growth.

It's getting better, but challenges in the region remain. Fidel 
Castro and Hugo Chavez remain vocal adversaries to freedom in the 
American values.

The arc of the universe bends toward justice, and these foes of 
freedom will fail in time, but the United States must continue to be 
the lighthouse among rocky waters. We must cooperate, educate, and 
assist our friends and our neighbors in Latin America. We do that best 
by supporting WHINSEC and the crucial work that is done there.

I urge my colleagues to defeat the McGovern amendment and let freedom 
ring throughout the Western Hemisphere.