---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `9f557a68cc36b30834839da44aa7e687`
`Mr. WEBB — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Madam President, I wish to first say I am grateful to all 
the Senators who participated in the debate today, including my good 
friend Senator McCain, for whom I have had respect for a long time.

I wish to emphasize again that this amendment provides a minimal 
adjustment in our rotation policies, and it does so with the notion 
that we can get a minimum floor underneath the deployment cycles of 
people who have been conducting the operational policies of the United 
States for 4/1/2/ years.

If we were attempting to be obstructionists or we were attempting to 
shut down a system, we would probably be arguing for the 2-to-1 ratio 
which is the goal of the Commandant of the Marine Corps and the 
historical tradition of the U.S. military. We are simply saying for 
every period you have been gone, you should have that amount of time 
back here at home.

This amendment is constitutional. It is well within the Constitution. 
I have given a memorandum that shows at least a half dozen different 
examples of when the Congress has put these sorts of restrictions in 
place when the executive branch has gone too far.

It is responsible. It was drafted with a great deal of care. We have 
listened. This amendment is an adjustment from the amendment that was 
offered last July. We have spoken with Secretary Gates. We modified the 
language of it. It is needed. It is needed in a way that is beyond 
politics, and certainly would not contribute to what some people are 
calling defeat.

It is needed for troop and family reasons, and that is why the 
Military Officers Association of America, 368,000 military officers, 
has supported the amendment. It is needed because the state of the 
debate on the Iraq war is going to continue for a long period of time. 
We all know that now. We know it specifically since General Petraeus's 
testimony.

We are going to have to resolve this in the political environment. We 
need to do so under a framework that protects our troops. I ask my 
colleagues to support it. I am very pleased we have 36 cosponsors on 
this amendment, and I would hope the Senate passes it.

I ask for the yeas and nays.