---
---

# None
## `9f5774b6cf779a0e81d1a8295d14ffbe`
`Mr. REID — 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Madam President, today is a somber day in Nevada. Last 
night, a helicopter crashed in Austin, NV, killing all five crew 
members on board. It is believed the flight was from Fallon Naval Air 
Station.

Also yesterday, Nevada lost another soldier in Iraq--25-year-old SGT 
Coby Schwab--to an improvised explosive device.

Our State and our Nation mourn the loss of all six servicemembers who 
served with honor and courage. Our hearts and our prayers are with the 
families.

No one wants success in Iraq more than we in the Senate. I can think 
of no greater tribute we can pay to those six servicemembers and the 
more than 3,300 others who have lost their lives in Iraq than to reach 
a responsible and successful end to the war which has cost so much in 
so many different ways.

The Washington Post this morning ran an article entitled ''The Cost 
of


War, Unnoticed.'' It tells us that the war in Iraq is about to become 
the most expensive conflict in United States history, after World War 
II. But unlike World War II, which was fought all over the world--in 
faraway Japan, Africa, all the islands in the South Seas, all over 
Europe--the Iraq conflict is taking place in a country the size of the 
State of California.

Also unlike past wars, President Bush is putting the costs squarely 
on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren by financing it 
entirely through borrowing and raising the national debt.

Robert Hormats, a former Republican administration official, says:




 They tried to do this on the cheap and without a candid 


 conversation with the American people about the cost. But the 


 irony is the great wartime leaders have seen it in the 


 opposite way.


From the beginning, President Bush has called this war a great 
challenge of our time. Yet his actions don't match his rhetoric. He has 
expected sacrifice from our troops now, but has pushed the sacrifice of 
American taxpayers years and years into the future and long past his 
term in office.

In 18 months, there will be a new election--18 months--to select a 
President. All Americans will continue to bear the financial burden of 
this war in the future, long past a new President assuming office. But 
right now, we are seeing the toll it is taking on our security at home.

In the wake of the tragic tornadoes that ripped through Kansas this 
past weekend, our National Guard did the best job it could there, a 
fantastic job, and we are grateful for their work, of course, but the 
toll of the war in Iraq crippled the ability of our National Guard to 
do the dangerous and heroic jobs they are charged with doing.

According to the Governor of Kansas, Kathleen Sebelius:




 Fifty percent of our trucks are gone. Our front loaders are 


 gone. We are missing humvees that move people. We can't 


 borrow them from other States because their equipment is 


 gone. It's a huge issue for States across the country to 


 respond to a disaster like this.


We can't expect our first responders to keep America safe if they 
don't have the supplies and the equipment to get the job done.

Our men and women in uniform, both active and in the Guard and 
Reserve, are bearing the bulk of the burden of this war. But we all pay 
a price, whether in death and injury to troops, or whether tremendous 
financial burden not yet fully realized, or whether in the inability of 
the Kansas National Guard to rescue and recover more quickly. That is 
why it is crucial and well past time to change course toward a 
successful and responsible end to the war.

We continue to negotiate with the White House and our Republican 
colleagues in Congress. We continue to stand firm in our belief that 
the time for a new direction has come. Even some of our Republican 
colleagues who have long supported the President on the war now seem to 
agree it can no longer be open-ended.

Yesterday my colleague Senator Lott said:




 This fall we have to see some significant changes on the 


 ground.


Over the weekend, House Minority Leader Boehner said:




 By the time we get to September or October, members are 


 going to want to know how well this is working, and if it 


 isn't, what's Plan B.


Just yesterday, my colleague Republican Leader McConnell echoed 
Leader Boehner's sentiments.




 I am glad to hear them move to our view, to set their own 


 timeline. But we can't wait until fall. We have to have a 


 responsible plan B right now.


Plan B gradually reduces combat operations and refocuses our troops 
on protecting America's security throughout the world.

Our plan B begins to bring troops and equipment home, where they can 
protect American lives in Kansas and across the country.

Our plan B begins to reduce the financial burden that this war is 
weighing on our shoulders and the shoulders of future generations.

And our plan B puts the pressure on the Iraqi Government that will 
ultimately lead them to take responsibility for their own future.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.