---
---

# None
## `9f5f665d9a1288b6d76ee21775797160`
`Mr. TESTER — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I also thank the members of the Armed 
Services Committee, the Senators from Michigan and Arizona, for all the 
work they have done on this Defense authorization bill.

I hope the Members of the Senate would have an honest discussion and 
debate and vote on these amendments and to uphold the 60-vote threshold 
on something that is as important as this Defense authorization bill, 
the many amendments that are going to come before us today, I think, 
takes away from the process, quite honestly.

As far as the air-conditioning goes in this body, I have advocated 
since I got here, if we shut the air-conditioning down, we would 
probably be a little more concise and gotten to the point a long time 
ago.

I rise today in support of an amendment offered by my friend, Senator 
Webb. As many colleagues here in this body know, Senator Webb is a 
highly decorated marine and Vietnam veteran. I respect his judgment. I 
trust his counsel enormously on these issues. I am proud to cosponsor 
his amendment as one part of a strategy to strengthen our military and 
change course in Iraq.

I also rise today to honor those who have served in Iraq, in honor of 
those who have been hurt there, and in honor of those 3,600 who never 
came home. Twenty brave men from my State paid the ultimate sacrifice 
in Iraq. They are our friends, our neighbors, our brothers, our 
sisters, our parents, and our children.

The war in Iraq has dominated this country's dialog and conscience 
for 5 long years. It is now costing us more than $2.5 billion every 
week; some say it is $3 billion. That is over $100,000 every minute of 
every hour of every day in Iraq.

Like many of my colleagues in the Senate, one of the most difficult 
things for me is the struggle in my heart. I balance two seemingly 
contradictory ideas: I stand here today proud to support our men and 
women in service, and I also stand here today proud to say that I 
adamantly oppose this war. I lie awake trying to think of ways to give 
our troops the resources they need to do their jobs in Iraq but all the 
while trying to figure out ways to bring them home to their families, 
friends, and communities.

Let me be clear about this: The men and women fighting this war have 
my full and unconditional support as a Montanan, as an American, and as 
a Senator. This country's service men and women have performed their 
jobs with honor and distinction in the most difficult conditions 
imaginable. I have supported them since the beginning, and I will 
continue to support them in the field and, just as importantly, after 
they come home--something our Nation has fallen behind on doing.

For more than 2 years, I have been asking the President of this great 
country to develop a plan to get us out of Iraq. I am disappointed to 
report that I no longer believe President Bush will use any of his 
remaining 559 days in office to do so. Think of this. We were told in 
2003 that we were invading Iraq for the following 3 reasons: to find 
and destroy weapons of mass destruction, to topple Saddam Hussein's 
regime, and to give the Iraqi people a chance to establish their own 
government. While certainly no weapons of mass destruction were found, 
any infrastructure that may have been in place to create such weapons 
of mass destruction has been destroyed. Saddam Hussein's government has 
been dissolved, and an evil dictator has been captured and put to 
death. The Iraqi people have voted on several occasions on their 
Government, their Constitution, and their future. I would say our work 
in Iraq is done. It is time for American troops to stop refereeing a 
centuries old civil war and come home after a job well done.

The President has not come up with a plan to bring the troops home. 
Instead, he jeopardized their funding, their equipment, and their 
training by vetoing legislation that would have funded those vital 
needs and begun the process of getting them home. The President uses 
our fighting men and women as pawns in this political game that is 
dividing our own people at home. That is totally unacceptable. 
President Bush's intention is clear--to leave our troops in the middle 
of this bloody civil war until he leaves office. That is why I am 
announcing I can no longer give the President the benefit of the doubt 
that he will end the Iraq war.

I am going to take a moment today to share with my colleagues 
thoughts on a possible three-point plan I hope will bring the Iraq war 
closer to an end, make our troops safer around the world, and refocus 
our efforts on those terrorists who attacked this Nation on September 
11.

First, we must support the Webb amendment that protects the mental 
and physical health of our troops. We all know a neighbor or a friend 
whose son or daughter has been deployed two, three, or even four times 
with seemingly no rest at home. That is why I am cosponsoring this 
amendment with Senator Webb. It deals with troop readiness. His 
amendment basically says that if you are going to send a unit into war, 
make sure they are well trained, well rested, and ready for the fight. 
It is very simple. It is common sense.

More and longer deployments of units with less time to rest and 
recuperate between means we are going to see more casualties in Iraq, 
more cases of post-traumatic stress disorder, and more suicides after 
they get home. According to the Army's own data, soldiers serving 
repeated deployments are 50 percent more likely than those with only 
one tour to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. Let's think 
twice before we let the President send a unit to this war or any other 
of the world's hot spots without the proper training and time between 
deployments. The strength and long-term health of our Armed Forces is 
at stake. This war has taken its toll on our readiness. If we don't 
start now to rebuild and fortify our troops, we will not be able to 
effectively go after the bad guys who continue to threaten our national 
security. We need to pass this Webb amendment, period. It is the right 
thing to do for our troops.


Second, we must redouble our efforts in Afghanistan. Afghanistan 
threatens to slide back from the progress that was made there 
immediately following the attacks of September 11. But the war in 
Afghanistan is rapidly and dangerously becoming a forgotten war, and 
our lack of effort there helps to explain the rise of al-Qaida in a 
nuclear and highly volatile Pakistan.



The link between the 9/11 attacks and the current war in Iraq does 
not exist, period. It never has. Reports confirm that our invasion of 
Iraq has created more terrorists than it has eliminated. Yet the 
terrorist who plotted the most deadly attack on U.S. soil, Osama bin 
Laden, remains at large and ignored by this administration.

The recent news out of England and Scotland is a grim reminder that 
the threat of world terrorism is still very real. While we pour our 
resources into policing violence in Iraq, extremists are busy plotting 
ways to target us and our allies. It is that kind of terrorism, that 
kind of extremism we need to set our sights on. We need to do it with 
the full might and vigilance of our military and other security forces, 
and we must do it while working to regain the trust of so many allies 
who have become wary of us under the President's leadership. Unlike 
Iraq, we must not ask the U.S. military to shoulder this entire burden 
in Afghanistan by themselves. The United States can and should be 
leaders in the war against terrorism, but we cannot go it alone. We 
have an obligation to our troops and our families to regain the 
diplomatic footing we have lost and involve our allies in this effort. 
We have lost the focus on the war on terrorism and we must regain it.

Finally, I am proud to announce my support for the amendment authored 
by Senator Byrd deauthorizing the 2002 use-of-force resolution. The 
resolution Congress passed in 2002 is tragically outdated. The mission 
in Iraq is not the mission Congress authorized 5 years ago. The 
President needs to ask Congress and the American people for approval to 
prosecute what seems to be a very different mission in Iraq.

Proposed legislation to deauthorize the 2002 resolution would make a 
few things crystal clear. Our current mission in Iraq is over on 
October 11, 2007. Let me repeat that. The war in Iraq is over on 
October 11 of this year. After that, the President would have to make a 
new case for a new mission, one that more accurately reflects what the 
U.S. troops are now doing in Iraq. If he cannot make that case to 
Congress and the American people, then our troops need to come home.

Now, we understand al-Qaida is going to try to exploit the situation 
in Iraq for their own purposes, and there are measures we can take to 
deal with that. We must not let Iraqi al-Qaida units get a foothold in 
the country, especially in the western part of Iraq. So I would support 
a no-fly zone in Iraq, which would ensure that the United States and 
our allies can keep reconnaissance eyes on efforts to restart terrorist 
training camps there. To fight the growing number of terrorist camps, 
we will need warships in the area and aircraft that can reach those al-
Qaida targets. We must not hesitate to strike against al-Qaida. The 
safety of this country and the world depends on that.

We need to continue to improve our ability to gather intelligence on 
the ground in Iraq, but we do not need and I will not support U.S. 
troops policing a civil war between the Sunnis and the Shiite militias. 
I will not support our military personnel guarding bridges and 
disarming roadside bombs. It is in our national interest to fight al-
Qaida but not this civil war.

The mission in Iraq has changed, and the American people realize it. 
It is time the President did as well. In February of this year, I said 
the President must tell the American people what success means and how 
it should be quantified. If success means free elections in Iraq, then 
we should have been gone 2 years ago. If success means toppling Saddam 
Hussein, then we should have been gone 3 years ago. If it means 
something else, then the President must identify a clear and achievable 
outcome. At this point, that has not happened, and enough is enough.

For 2 years, as a Montana State Senator, a candidate for the U.S. 
Senate, a Senator-elect, and a U.S. Senator, I have given the Commander 
in Chief the benefit of the doubt that he would tell Congress and the 
American people how to define success in Iraq and how he meant to 
achieve it. He has not done so. The President refuses to support our 
troops by keeping them in the middle of a civil war with no end in 
sight. They fight every day in a war with no plan and no definition of 
success, and, most importantly, they are dying every day in a war the 
American people do not want to be fighting. We and our troops deserve 
better. They deserve the truth.

Since the President refuses to support the troops by developing a 
plan to bring them home, then we must and we should and we will. But 
above all, we must stand by our soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen. 
We support them wholeheartedly while they fight and support them for 
what they will endure after they get home from Iraq. It is on behalf of 
those troops and those who fought before them that I am cosponsoring 
the Webb amendment.


Mr. President, I yield the floor.