---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `9f60530534cedb9a8876e20b89975e42`
`Mr. TIAHRT — 16 March 2010`

---


Mr. TIAHRT. Madam Speaker, I join my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle in opposition to H. Con. Res. 248, The Afghanistan War Powers 
Resolution. This resolution calls for a premature withdrawal of our 
forces from Afghanistan, putting our service men and women and our 
Nation at risk. Make no mistake, we are in the midst of a very 
important war. We did not seek the Global War on Terror, but it is one 
we cannot abandon.

On September 11, 2001, we were attacked in the most horrifying way. 
2,973 innocent people were killed. Nine buildings were destroyed. The 
Pentagon was hit and but for the bravery of the passengers of United 
Flight #93, our Capitol would have been destroyed as well.

This war, however, did not begin or end on that fateful day. Muslim 
extremists have been at war with America for years, but few people took 
notice until 2001.

In 1983, terrorists launched a suicide truck-bomb attack against the 
U.S. Marine Barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, killing 242 Americans.

In 1993, Islamic terrorists attacked the World Trade Center building 
in New York City, killing six people and injuring 1,000 more.

In 1998, Al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, 
leaving 300 dead and injuring over 5,000 people.

In 2000, the U.S. Navy Destroyer USS Cole was attacked by followers 
of Usama bin Laden, killing 17 sailors and injuring 39.

In May 2001, just over three months before the attacks of September 
11, the Muslim terrorist group Abu Sayyaf kidnapped 16 people including 
Kansas missionaries Martin and Gracia Burnham. While some escaped, four 
hostages were killed including Martin. Fortunately, Gracia survived 
this terrifying ordeal and is now living in Rose Hill, Kansas.

On September 11, Americans awoke to the reality that we could no 
longer ignore the growing threat of Muslim extremists. We had a choice: 
either wait for the next attack, or take the fight to the terrorists. 
The American people and Congress were unified in answering that we 
would fight terrorists before they reach American soil.

Today, the United States remains engaged in a global war against 
Muslim extremists. In order to protect our country, we must ensure that 
terrorists are not given safe haven in any nation. Most of the planning 
of training for the September 11, 2001 attacks took place in 
Afghanistan and terrorists continue to exploit vulnerabilities in 
Afghanistan today. Our troops have made tremendous progress in securing 
Afghanistan, but there is much more to do. Afghanistan needs our help 
to root out terrorists and ensure that terrorists no longer use their 
country to launch terrorist attacks around the world.

We are not naive as to the cost of this war. Over 1,000 brave 
Americans have been killed in Afghanistan over the past eight years, 
and we mourn each one. Billions of dollars have been spent on this 
protracted effort. This has been a long and costly war, but it is not 
in vain.

The cost of this war does not negate the importance of this war. 
Afghanistan is the central front in the war against terror. Walking 
away from Afghanistan will not bring peace and security to our people. 
We have seen firsthand what happens when Afghanistan is a safe haven 
for terrorists. The consequences are too great for us to simply wait 
for the enemy to strike.

The question is not does this war exist? Though some are in denial, 
we are at war even if we do not want to be. Rather, the question is 
where will the battle be fought? In opposing this resolution, I vote to 
have that battle where every American carries a gun and wears body 
armor, not on the streets of Wichita.

We can not leave Afghanistan until the job is done. We owe it to the 
Marines killed in Lebanon, the sailors of the USS Cole, those murdered 
at the east African embassies, Martin and Gracia Burnham, all those who 
lost their lives on September 11, and to the troops who have died 
defending our freedom and security on the battlefields of the Global 
War on Terror. We must stay strong and finish the task at hand.

I look forward to the day when our troops come home in victory, and 
when our people can live in peace and security--free from the fear of a 
terrorist attack. But today is not that day. Today we must redouble our 
efforts to bring security to Afghanistan, which, in turn, will bring us 
one step closer to that day. I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
resolution.
