---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70,  CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `9f72a0f9c0f2c11387ca87d5640e8d52`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1214 provides for 
consideration of the conference report to accompany S. Con. Res. 70, 
the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2009.

House resolution 1214 is a traditional conference report rule. It 
waives all points of order against the conference report and against 
its consideration and provides that the conference report shall be 
considered as read. The rule provides for 1 hour of general debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chairman and the ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Budget.

Mr. Speaker, budgets are moral documents. They are more than just an 
accounting of expenditures and revenue. They are statements of our 
national values and priorities. For too long Congress passed budgets 
with the wrong priorities. For too long the budget put the interests of 
the powerful before the needs of working families and those going 
through hard times. And for too long the budgets of the past pretended 
that people who were struggling didn't even exist, let alone matter.

That has changed now. This Congress, the New Direction Congress, is 
saying that we value our families and their economic future. This 
Congress will fight to make sure that their hard work is rewarded and 
that the American Dream is renewed.

This 5-year budget conference agreement charts a new way forward for 
the country. It makes investments in energy, education, and 
infrastructure. It provides tax relief for the middle class. It returns 
the budget to surplus in 2012 and 2013. And it remembers those whose 
service and sacrifice here at home and abroad provide the rest of us 
with security and peace of mind. Mr. Speaker, this is a budget with a 
conscience.

Today, as we move to pass this conference agreement on the budget, 
our country faces major challenges: an economic recession, a crisis in 
the credit markets, a plunging housing market, rising unemployment, 
declining family income, skyrocketing costs in health care, aging 
infrastructure, and a safety net struggling to keep up with the growing 
number of Americans unable to meet their most basic needs.

Faced with these challenges, President Bush and his Republican 
colleagues proposed the same tired, failed economic and fiscal 
policies. After 7 years the Bush legacy is the highest deficits in our 
Nation's history. The Bush legacy is the greatest national debt in our 
Nation's history. Future generations, our children and our 
grandchildren, will be forced to pay the


price for this unprecedented rise in debt, a legacy of President George 
Bush and the Republicans' reckless and irresponsible policies.

With this budget resolution, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats are ready to 
take the necessary steps, as difficult as they may be, to regain our 
economic health and reclaim our children's future. It is a balanced 
budget with balanced priorities.

It returns the budget to balance with projected surpluses in 2012 and 
2013 by adhering to fiscally responsible policies. It strengthens the 
U.S. economy over the long term while calling for funds to help 
Americans struggling in the current economic downturn. It rejects, and 
I repeat, it rejects the Republicans' harmful cuts to Medicare and 
Medicaid, the Community Development Block Grant program, and LIHEAP. 
And it protects priorities like SCHIP, infrastructure needs, homeland 
security, innovation, energy, education, health care, veterans, and the 
environment.

This budget agreement does not include any tax increases, despite the 
overheated claims of the other side. Quite the contrary, it supports 
significant tax relief, including extension of marriage penalty relief, 
the child tax credit, the 10 percent bracket, and allowing for estate 
tax reform. It includes an additional year of relief for the 
alternative minimum tax that is fully paid for, Mr. Speaker. And it 
provides for property tax relief, energy and education tax relief, and 
extenders.

Finally, this budget remembers those who serve at home and abroad. It 
provides strong and substantial funding for national defense, including 
quality of life for our troops and their families. It provides more 
funding for homeland security programs, including first responders, 
more than the President would. It provides for the care and treatment 
of all of our veterans but most especially our newest generation of 
veterans, those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, many of whom are 
grievously wounded and thousands who will require treatment for 
posttraumatic stress and serious depression. Finally, Mr. Speaker, it 
rejects President Bush's cynical new fees for veterans health care.

In short, Mr. Speaker, this budget charts a new direction for a 
stronger, safer, more compassionate America.

Mr. Speaker, there are two significant differences between the House- 
and Senate-passed budgets which this conference report resolves. First 
were the reconciliation revisions to the alternative minimum tax. And 
the second is the level of nondefense discretionary funding.

On reconciliation, the conference agreement drops the House-passed 
reconciliation instructions. Instead, it provides for 1 year of AMT 
relief that is fully paid for. The House will continue to work with the 
Senate to identify how to pay for permanent relief of the AMT. In the 
House such a solution is subject to our PAYGO rules of order and must 
be fully offset. With the passage of this conference report, any AMT 
fix offered in the Senate that increases the deficit by $10 billion in 
a year will also be subject to a Senate point of order.

On nondefense discretionary spending, the difference between the 
House and Senate budgets was $3.6 billion, and the conference agreement 
splits the difference. By holding most nonsecurity spending to a modest 
1 percent above inflation, we are able to move the budget out of 
deficit and into surplus by the year 2012 while still providing 
substantially greater investment in education, income security, 
veterans, and natural resources.

I urge my colleagues, Mr. Speaker, to adopt this rule and to approve 
the conference agreement on the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.