# DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2009
## `9f811933c826985a7381226d87e72c05`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 25 February 2009`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Madam President, I rise in support of the DC Voting 
Rights Act. I rise from a new seat, a new chair in the Senate. My desk 
is now moved to the center aisle. I rise from this desk for the very 
first time to speak about a new opportunity to expand democracy. That 
is what the DC Voting Rights Act is--it is about democracy, about 
fairness, and about empowerment.

The DC Voting Rights Act simply gives the District Representative 
full voting rights in the U.S. House of Representatives. I also want to 
point out to my colleagues that this is not only about the District of 
Columbia, but this is also about Utah. What this legislation does, in a 
sense of fairness and parity, is grant a seat to the District of 
Columbia and an additional seat to Utah. What we are doing is trying to 
adjust, without amending the Constitution, wrongs that need to be 
righted. The DC Voting Rights Act gives the District Representative 
full voting rights in the House of Representatives.

Right now, the District of Columbia is represented--and I might add 
very ably--by Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, a distinguished 
public servant. She is called a Delegate to Congress. We call her 
Congresswoman. When she moves around her great area, she is also called 
that. What is she allowed to do? One, she is able to have a voice. That 
is important. So the people of DC do have a voice. But in Congress, a 
voice also usually means a vote. That is where it doesn't work the way 
we think it should. She is able to vote in her committee, but she is 
not able to vote on the House floor. We think that is wrong. We think 
she should have a voice and we think she should have a vote.

The residents of the District of Columbia are the only residents in a 
democratic country in the capital city who do not have a vote in 
determining the fate and direction of the Nation.

What we have essentially done is disempower the over 600,000 
residents of the District of Columbia. Yet we do not disempower them 
when we call them to serve for war. The District of Columbia, through 
its National Guard, has served ably and willingly. Yet even though they 
go to fight for the entire United States of America and they are sent 
to war by the Congress of the United States, they have no voice, no 
vote in the direction of their own country. This is not right.

DC residents go by the same rules and laws as the United States of 
America. They pay taxes. They pay, by the way, Federal taxes because 
they see themselves as part of the Federal Government. But the Federal 
Government does not see that they have full representation. I wish 
sometime we could have those DC residents who fought in wars in the 
balconies. They fought through the National Guard, and they fought 
through the regular military. They have fought and they have died, most 
recently in Iraq and Afghanistan. But when they come home, they are 
treated like second-class citizens. I don't think that is right.

I also happen to believe if you pay taxes--there was a famous patriot 
who said: If you pay taxes, you should have representation. If it was 
good enough for Patrick Henry and Patrick Kennedy, it should be good 
for us. If you pay taxes to the Federal Government, your representative 
should have a vote in the Congress of the United States. That is what 
we want to do today.

When we think about all the major issues that are debated in 
Congress--the economy, health care, education, the direction of our 
national security--these issues affect the residents of the District of 
Columbia the same way they affect Maryland or Virginia or Texas or 
Alabama or North Carolina. Yet the DC residents do not have a vote on 
these issues.

How would you feel, Madam President, if you did not have anyone 
representing you on those issues or if your Congresspeople could have a 
voice but not a vote? I think the District of Columbia deserves this, 
and they have been waiting a very long time. The District of Columbia 
has been waiting for this for 200 years.

Last year when we tried, we fell three votes short. But we are in a 
new day in Washington, and I hope this new day will be new democracy, 
the expansion of democracy. We love to expand democracy around the 
world. Let's expand democracy to the District of Columbia.

The District of Columbia has been made the target of congressional 
pet projects. We often shove ideas at them. We undo what they often 
want to pass for themselves. We think they should be able to have a 
vote to exercise the direction both for themselves and for the Nation.

Currently, DC residents are represented by a delegate. This would 
give full voting power in the House of Representatives. It would give 
Utah one additional representative. This solution is fair, it is 
nonpartisan, and it will enfranchise 600,000 District of Columbia 
residents and also enfranchise the State of Utah to have one additional 
representative that they barely missed in a census that was flawed in 
many ways.

I stand today as a friend and neighbor to the people of the District 
of Columbia. We in Maryland live next door


to the District. Many of the constituents I represent, the sons and 
daughters live in Maryland, the moms and dads continue to live in the 
District of Columbia. I know their fierce devotion to this country, the 
fact that they are proud to be residents of the Capital of the United 
States of America. They love doing their duty by participating in their 
community, by paying their taxes, and going to war, if necessary. But 
they believe participation and taxation should have representation. I 
believe like they do; we should give it to them and give it to them 
this week in this Senate. The time is now.

I yield the floor.