---
---

# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `9f890e9a78d8c90699880c54e3d37f47`
`Mr. KAGEN — 7 March 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Thank you very much, and thank you for being there to ask 
the tough questions.

What I think the American people have to understand is that there has 
been a positive change and a new direction in this country and in this 
110th Congress. You are looking at two new Members of the Class of 
2006. It is the class I call America's hope.



It is America's hope that we intend to represent.

But I think everyone watching tonight and everyone in America must 
really be asking themselves several questions: What are these people's 
values, and whose side are they on? Things have changed in the 110th. I 
think you measure a person's or an administration's values based upon 
how they spend their money or our money, and this administration was 
seeking to cut $3.8 billion from the health care of veterans. They were 
asking our veterans, who have put their lives on the line, to pay for 
the benefits they have already owned. Those are not the values of the 
people I represent in Wisconsin. I am sure they are not Arizona's 
values either.

And the other question: Whose side are we on? Well, the current 
administration is choosing to help the politically connected, private, 
inside contractors, not just in Iraq but here at home at Walter Reed, 
rather than the wounded who seek the best care possible. This 
administration, in my view, has chosen to help insurance companies and 
pharmaceutical companies rather than our hardworking families and the 
senior citizens that I take care of in Wisconsin who cannot afford 
their prescription medication. I don't believe the values of this 
administration reflect those of the American public, and that is why I 
think I got elected to this Congress, to bring a positive change. What 
you see at Walter Reed is a symptom of a bigger problem in the White 
House.