# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `9f8a6df37eb082d17461c87ca7198c8b`
`Mr. McCOTTER â€” 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Speaker, we find ourselves today as a minority 
party watching a very perplexing bill come towards us. It's perplexing 
in the sense that we watch a majority party which has promised America 
to end the war, which many of us, I think, rightly view and the world 
will view as an American defeat because it has failed and cannot be 
changed to the point where America can win. We've also watched a 
majority party tell us that the spending on the Iraq war has destroyed 
the American economy. We can differ on that but that is their position. 
And we now watch the Democratic Party bring forward a bill that will 
fund a failed war and will evidently, by their logic, further decimate 
the American economy.

Now how does one come to the conclusion that this is a necessary step 
for said party? Well, you have discretionary spending added into it. 
Now, I would argue that a fine piece of legislation has been attached 
to this bill, which was introduced by the gentleman from Washington, to 
help people who are unemployed. Thanks to the policies of my State 
legislature, which has raised taxes and helped drive business out of 
Michigan, we have seen that people need unemployment insurance to get 
themselves through difficult times in the hopes they can find 
employment.

Which brings me to the next problem with this, which is in an attempt 
to help veterans, we are raising taxes on small business income. Eighty 
percent of the income that will be taxed comes from small business. So 
now what we have is an attempt to show that we can fund a war that we 
believe has failed with money that has decimated the American economy 
by going overseas; yet we will try to help the unemployed, who will 
further suffer from this, and we will try to help veterans who come 
back from that war by making sure that there are no jobs here waiting 
for them.

Again, it is a very perplexing bill. I would suggest to the gentleman 
who earlier suggested there was nothing Congress could do to end this 
war to rethink the position.