---
---

# None
## `9f8b5892e8504869a2fff8e02f7f676b`
`Mr. ALLARD — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce important 
legislation in support of America's Paralympic programs.

The Paralympics are an important facet of our modern Olympic 
tradition and serve as an integral part of the rehabilitation of the 
mind, body, and soul. Training programs provided by Paralympic 
organizations enable disabled athletes to overcome obstacles on and off 
the field. Through training, performance, and competition, these 
athletes regain independence and renew their spirit.

The roots of the Paralympic movement originally stem from disabled 
veteran's returning from war. After World War II, British soldiers 
began participating in Paralympic games. These games provided a way for 
disabled soldiers to compete competitively in athletics. This practice 
quickly spread to the United States, and this country is now leading 
the way in advancing the movement. Today thousands of athletes with 
physical disabilities compete internationally, proudly representing 
their countries.

Tremendous advancements in modern medicine and the adaptation of 
athletic equipment have allowed Para-lympic athletes to physically 
compete in a variety of sports and live the Olympic dream. By 
continuing to support the development of the Para-lympic movement at 
all levels, as this bill does, we are able to take advantage of these 
numerous scientific and medical advancements to truly improve quality 
of life for our wounded veterans.

Today I am introducing legislation to facilitate the transfer of 
unused Federal property in Colorado Springs, CO, to the United States 
Olympic Committee and specifically Paralympics Incorporated. The 
transfer of this property allows the current United States Olympic 
Committee complex in Colorado Springs to expand and provides the U.S. 
Paralympic Team with further room to grow their programs.

To a large degree, this expansion will afford greater opportunities 
to Para-lympics athletes, especially our Nation's military veterans.

Colorado Springs and the Pikes Peak region are unique. Home to a 
robust veteran's population, this region also serves as the national 
headquarters of the Unites States Olympic Committee. This makes the 
area a natural fit for championing and advancing the Paralympic 
movement.

Proponents for the disabled estimate that approximately 10 percent of 
the more than 500-person U.S. team to the Paralympics in 2012 will be 
comprised of veteran's of the global war on terrorism. This is a 
tremendous increase considering there were no war veterans 
participating in either the 2004 or 2006 games.

Providing for the transfer of this property will give the United 
States Olympic Commitee the necessary facilities to work with local and 
national veteran's service organizations, the Department of Defense, as 
well as the Department of Veterans Affairs in order to allow for 
greater opportunities for disabled veterans to participate in the 
Paralympics, particularly those returning home from war in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

I am not alone. National and local organizations recognize the 
importance of these programs and vocally support my efforts, including: 
the Colorado American Legion, the Colorado Springs Chamber of Commerce, 
the National Sports Center for the Disabled, and the Pikes Peak Chapter 
of Military Officers Association of America.

I ask my colleagues to join me in cheering on the Olympic spirit that 
lives in all of us by supporting our Nation's disabled veterans and 
Para-lympic athletes.

I ask unanimous consent to print the following letters in the Record.