# None
## `9f902cc577a0a7cae7bdc474e7d3ffca`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California â€” 15 April 2008`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, I urge that we pass this 
important legislation today.

I will confess that I am disappointed that the ranking member is not 
today in support of this measure. We, on the majority side, accepted 
every amendment offered by Republicans in the committee mark-up on this 
bill, and I had hoped and expected that we would be able to continue to 
work together and support this measure on the floor.

We reported the original Holt bill out of the committee over 1 year 
ago, and in that time, between now and then, we have worked with 
Secretaries of State, the National Association of Counties, disability 
rights groups, voting rights groups, civil rights groups, to try and 
get a measure that could garner broad support across the country. And I 
believe that we have that measure before us today.

I will say that the White House issuing an SAP today, after a year's 
work, I think, is really bad faith. We have worked very hard, and to 
come out at the last minute is really very unprofessional.

I'd finally like to say that the dollar amount estimated by the 
Congressional Budget Office is a worst-case scenario. There's no way 
that that would be the full amount.

But even if it were, I would ask Members to think of this: Isn't the 
American democracy worth as much as the Iraqi or the Pakistani 
democracy?



Aren't we willing to spend as much to make sure that our precious 
American votes are counted as we are the votes of foreigners in other 
countries? I would hope that as we consider our responsibility as 
Members of Congress to our wonderful America and our wonderful country, 
that the answer to that would be yes and therefore, a ''yes'' on the 
whole bill.

There have been various quotes made today, but I think back of the 
second Californian to ever be President of the United States, his 
phrase was not used about voting, but it was this: Trust but verify. 
That's what the Holt bill would do. It would trust but verify, and I 
hope that Members today can come together and support the Holt bill.

I would like to commend once again Congressman Holt for his enormous 
efforts that brought us here today.