# None
## `9fa8dc817227edfc67d69e4b5409a5d4`
`Mr. BYRD — 17 April 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. I thank the Chair.

















Veto Threats


Mr. President, the 110th Congress will consider legislation this 
session that raises passions and excites partisan fervor. It is likely 
that much of what the Congress considers this year and next will be 
subject to Presidential veto threats because the President's political 
party no longer controls the Congress.

I was quite surprised recently to hear some Senators take the 
position that this body is wasting its time in drafting and passing 
legislation which the President threatens to veto.

Let me respectfully remind all who listen that the Congress 
legislates for the people and has a constitutional obligation--in other 
words, duty--to act independently from--I say this again, I say it 
respectfully--from the White House. There are three branches, as 
everybody knows, of Government. This is a separate but equal branch. I 
want Senators to listen. This is a separate branch, but it is equal.

I will repeat myself. As Senators already know, there are three 
separate but equal branches of Government. The Constitution's Framers 
never considered a President to be the final arbiter of the public 
good. Whether the question relates to military, foreign, or domestic 
affairs, a Presidential veto threat is not the last word in what should 
become the law of our land. Those decisions are left to the 
representatives of the people, along with the power over the purse--
along with the power over the purse--and other constitutionally 
enumerated congressional powers.

We hear almost daily a Presidential scolding of the Congress 
concerning the supplemental appropriations bill, which is shortly 
headed for a House-Senate conference. Continued Presidential veto 
threats on the funding for the Iraq war represent a stubborn 
unwillingness to concede that the American people have over time and 
with considerable debate come to see that the Iraq war was a mistake.



In the case of Iraq, it is likely that the people of the United 
States would have come to these opinions much earlier had they not had 
information withheld from them or, in some instances, presented to them 
falsely. Of course, I knew this.

Of course, also, it remains the constitutional prerogative of the 
President to exercise the veto. I respect that. But it also remains the 
prerogative of the Congress--the other body across the way and this 
body--it also remains the prerogative of the Congress to challenge that 
veto and to assert and defend the will of the people.

A President's power to veto is not and should not be absolute. Let me 
repeat that. A President's power to veto is not and should not be 
absolute. If the President vetoes a measure under our Constitution, the 
Congress can override that veto with a two-thirds vote of both Houses. 
All Senators know that. I am not telling Senators anything they don't 
know.

A Presidential veto does not necessarily end the legislative process. 
When the President vetoes legislation under article I, section 7 of the 
Constitution, the President's objections are submitted to the House of 
Congress--Congress being of two bodies--submitted to the House of 
Congress in which the measure originated so that the measure and the 
President's objections can be reconsidered. All Senators know that. Any 
schoolboy who has studied the Constitution knows that. But I am stating 
for the record, again, for all who run to read.

A new vote can be scheduled on the same piece of legislation and a 
veto can be overturned if the people's representatives--if the people's 
elected representatives--in Congress demand it.

There is nothing earthshaking about overturning a Presidential veto. 
Since 1969, the Congress has overridden almost 20 percent of the 
Presidential vetoes. President Franklin Roosevelt had nine vetoes 
overridden by Democratic Congresses. I repeat: President Franklin 
Roosevelt had nine vetoes overridden by Democratic Congresses. 
President Ronald Reagan had six vetoes overridden by a Democratic House 
and a Republican Senate.

The veto override provision in the Constitution is a protection for 
the people whom the Congress represents. Members of Congress are 
elected by the people to make laws based on sound public policy, not to 
capitulate or surrender to any--Republican or Democrat--to any 
Presidential threats. The Senate must never--hear me now, the Senate 
must never--become a rubberstamp for any President, Republican or 
Democrat or Independent or otherwise.

Certainly, the Congress should carefully consider the announced 
reasons for a Presidential veto, but the Congress has a duty, if the 
President's reasons are not credible or do not reflect the will of the 
people, to overturn Presidential vetoes, if the Congress wishes to do 
so.

The veto on the override is a healthy public opportunity for Members 
of Congress--both Houses--to consider the reasons offered by the 
President for his veto. Just as the President is held accountable for 
his veto, we Senators are held accountable for our votes on bills that 
are sent to the President and, if applicable, a subsequent veto 
override vote.

Members of the Senate and the people understand that when the 
President submits a bill to Congress and then asks that it be passed 
without any amendments or conditions--the President has a right to do 
that, but we all know that the President is treating the Congress like 
a subordinate branch capable of only saying yes or no and never 
expected to alter a Presidential proposal in any way.

The President knows what the Constitution says, and he knows that the 
Congress has a right to listen, to study, and then to act as it seeks 
to act. So this is an argument that contradicts the most basic 
constitutional principles on which our Republic is founded.

The Congress was envisioned as a check on an overzealous or unwise 
President, and that is no reflection on either party--that the 
President can be a Democrat, a Republican, or otherwise--and we do our 
duty to the Constitution when we vigorously utilize our enumerated 
powers.


So let us hear no more about measures that the President has 
threatened to veto being not worthy of the Senate's consideration. Let 
the President issue his veto threats as he wishes, but also let the 
Congress dutifully represent the will of the people.

On the matter of Iraq--and I say this most respectfully--I have been 
chagrined of late to hear the falsehoods and scare tactics emanating 
from the Oval Office. President Bush has repeatedly intimated that 
there is a connection between the attacks of 9/11 and the Iraq war when 
no such link exists. President Bush has suggested--he is my President 
and yours, Senators--that the supplemental appropriations bill as now 
written would cause death and destruction in America, which is patently 
false. I speak now as the chairman--of course, everybody knows it--I 
speak as the chairman of the Appropriations Committee.

Mr. President, I make a parliamentary inquiry: Are we under limited 
time, I ask the Chair?