---
---

# COMMEMORATING ASIAN PACIFIC AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH
## `9fbb1c98e59a5db5400287cd70117d26`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 14 May 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me thank the distinguished gentleman, 
and as I rise, let me add my appreciation for his leadership of the 
Asian Pacific caucus and join him in celebrating Asian Pacific history 
month.

This is a time in our Nation that we are able to celebrate the many 
diverse cultures that make up those who are of Asian ancestry in the 
United States of America. And so my hat is tipped to the leadership in 
this Congress, the distinguished gentleman from California, and the 
many Members who have been such leaders.

I pay a special tribute to the late Bob Matsui who, of course, was a 
dear friend and someone that we all cherished.

I will speak briefly about the recent supplemental and the crisis 
that we face in this Nation. This is more than a tough challenge, to be 
able to address the concerns and the need for moving forward by a new 
President and the questions that are raised as this war supplemental 
makes its way through.

I will be asking questions as relates to our final solution, or 
legislative vote, as to whether or not language goes into this 
supplemental that will direct the administration to have an exit 
strategy for Afghanistan. I believe it is important as this bill makes 
its way through the Senate and back to the House, through conference, 
that there is a more definitive mark or standards and procedures for 
downsizing the war in Iraq, moving out equipment and bringing our 
soldiers home.

We now face a different conflict in Afghanistan. It is one of 
insurgents, the rise of the Taliban. We face as well the rising 
conflict in Pakistan, although the civilian government has maintained, 
in their visits here to the United States, they are committed to 
democracy, and I do believe them. Many of us have visited with 
President Zardari and leaders of his government, and we frankly believe 
that there is an opportunity to promote continued democracy in 
Pakistan, a friend of the United States for many years.

Just a few minutes ago I was meeting with a Pakistani American who 
was leaving to go help the internally displaced persons who are, as a 
result of the Pakistani Government, trying to rid that area of the 
Taliban and other insurgents who want to do harm to peace-loving 
people.

We need to be assured that the nuclear materials that Pakistan has 
are secure. But this bill, I believe, had merits in that it did promote 
the developmental assistance, the foreign aid, to help Pakistan get on 
its feet.

The questions that I had, of course, were the monies used to surge up 
the war in Afghanistan. And so this will be a time to review how this 
bill will make its way back, and whether or not we can get an end time, 
and whether or not we can tell family when their young people will come 
home, and whether or not we can answer those families whose returning 
soldiers suffer from posttraumatic stress disorder, as evidenced by the 
five bodies who came back at the hands of another soldier.

War is horrible, and so I believe it is important, as we have given 
this vote to the President, that it be such that it is a vote that ends 
these wars and focuses on building nations and building democracies so 
that they can take care of their own war and hopefully be unconflicted, 
if you will.

I am grateful for the resources in this bill that will help military 
families, mothers and fathers and children, the salary that comes about 
through those soldiers who lost salaries that have been put in this 
bill; the disaster aid, although I would have wanted to have a match, a 
100 percent match for Galveston that is still suffering from Hurricane 
Ike. I hope we will be able to work on this issue as we move forward.

Again, I want to thank the gentleman from California for yielding to 
me, because I wanted to ensure that the support that has been given by 
some of us is based upon finding a way to end these conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan.

And in finality, I might say that what I hope to have happen is that 
we find a way to ensure the end of the tenet, the term, if you will, of 
Osama bin Laden and of the insurgents that are destroying countries. I 
would hope, also, that we would be able to work to expand resources for 
posttraumatic stress disorders, and I am continuing to work to procure 
such a center in the 18th Congressional District for the large number 
of active soldiers that are in the Houston and Harris County area, 
noted as one of the major areas where active soldiers are in place.

This is, of course, an important step. And as we fight for education 
health reform, I think what we first of all must do is resolve these 
conflicts so that resources can be used to build a better America.

Mr. Honda, again, I salute you on this great month and great leaders. 
You can count me as a friend as we move forward on so many different 
issues as we improve the lives of all Americans.