# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2206, U.S.  TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `9fc8c401b31f8f86d52b48166d0265b6`
`Mr. DREIER — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume 
and then I'm going to be yielding to one of my colleagues.

Let me say that at 7 o'clock this morning I praised the distinguished 
chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, Mr. Obey. He knows that I 
have the utmost respect for him and his work. He is very, very 
diligent, and a very, very thoughtful Member. And I have been 
privileged to serve with him for the last more than a quarter of a 
century, as we were counting upstairs some of our former colleagues who 
are long departed, Mr. Dabo, Mr. Conte, and others.

Mr. Speaker, let me say that, with all due respect to my friend, I am 
not bellyaching about the process itself. I am not bellyaching about 
what it is that got us here. I am simply pointing to a promise that was 
made to this institution; and that promise, Mr. Speaker, was that there 
would be 24 hours to review legislation before it is brought to the 
floor. And I will acknowledge that when we were in the majority, we did 
not always provide that 24 hours. But, Mr. Speaker, I would say to my 
friend from Wisconsin, it is not about what we did, it is about what 
this new majority promised they were going to do. And that commitment 
was that after this laborious late-night negotiating process that 
included Members of the other body, the White House, and Members of 
this body into the night, that there would be a 24-hour opportunity for 
Members to look at a $119.99 billion spending measure.

So I have to say that the process that led up to the creation of this 
is historically the process that does bring about bipartisan 
agreements. The gentleman is absolutely right, not everyone is happy 
with all the measures included in this bill. But the fact of the matter 
is we are where we are; we have gotten here under challenging 
circumstances. As I said, the Rules Committee adjourned at 8:45 last 
night. At 11 o'clock we were informed that we would have an emergency 
meeting at 7 o'clock this morning, and at 5:39 this morning it was made 
available to us.



And here we are just a few hours later considering it on the House 
floor. Now, Mr. Speaker, I'm hoping to go back to Los Angeles tomorrow 
morning, and I'd like to be able to do that. But I'm more than willing 
to help this majority comply with the promise that they made that on 
all major legislation, they would in fact provide the minority and, 
frankly, the majority Members with 24 hours to review the legislation.

And, finally, I just have to say that when we hear arguments that 
somehow


President Bush is playing into the hands of the terrorists and 
responsible for where we are, Mr. Speaker, September 11 of 2001 changed 
not only the United States but the world. The largest most important 
Nation in the history of mankind suffered an attack the likes of which 
we had never seen in our Nation's history. And so, taking on a multi-
pronged approach, dealing with, as we have in both Afghanistan and in 
Iraq, and we all know that Iraq is the central front for al Qaeda, has 
been very important. You can raise issues like weapons of mass 
destruction and other items like that, but the fact of the matter is, 
we are where we are today. And I believe that it would be a horrendous 
mistake for us to take a retrograde step, which is exactly what those 
terrorists want.

And with that, I'm happy to yield 4 minutes to my very good friend 
from Sacramento, Mr. Lungren.