# WELCOMING THE HONORABLE JACKIE SPEIER TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
## `9fd168cb84fe4786a9e2c6edc6d3fc9a`
`Ms. SPEIER â€” 10 April 2008`

---


Ms. SPEIER. Thank you, Madam Speaker.

It is a real honor to be introduced by the dean of the California 
delegation, who was, as he mentioned, serving his district with 
distinction when I was a mere staffer here in the U.S. House of 
Representatives. And I'm thrilled to be joining the gentlewoman from 
California, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo, one of my longest and dearest 
friends, and the gentleman from California, Congressman Thompson, who 
taught me all I needed to know when I first arrived in the State 
capital back in 1986.

Madam Speaker, I didn't think it was possible for a person to be 
filled with both pride and humility at the same time. But that is 
exactly how I feel today. I am proud to have been chosen by a 
substantial majority of San Francisco and San Mateo County voters. I'm 
humbled by the faith they have placed in me and by the awesome legacy 
this particular seat holds.

Recently, I was introduced as having been elected to replace Tom 
Lantos. I had to laugh. I was elected to succeed Congressman Lantos. No 
one will ever replace him.

I also follow in the footsteps of Leo Ryan, who served this Chamber 
with distinction until he was assassinated 30 years ago, and I am 
honored to introduce his daughter Erin Ryan, who is in the Members 
gallery.

I was privileged to serve on Congressman Ryan's staff because I 
learned from one of the best. He taught me three important lessons: 
One, question the status quo; two, always listen to the people you 
represent; and, three, always stand up for what you believe in even if 
you have to stand alone.

Madam Speaker, I was struck with something while campaigning for this 
seat. A public servant is never more in tune with her constituents than 
when she is first running for the office. While holding over 60 
community meetings across my district this year, the most common 
question was, ''When will we get out of Iraq?'' It was asked by voters 
across the spectrum: veterans, students, parents, the prosperous, 
middle class, those still working towards their piece of the American 
Dream.

The process to bring the troops home must begin immediately. The 
President wants to stay the course, and a man who wants to replace him 
suggests we could be in Iraq for a hundred years.

But, Madam Speaker, history will not judge us kindly if we sacrifice 
four generations of Americans because of the folly of one.

And, Madam Speaker, as passionate as people are about getting out of 
Iraq, they are also worried, about their jobs, their houses, and their 
futures. I got an earful from taxpayers outraged that the Fed bailed 
out Bear Stearns while neighbors are losing their homes to predatory 
lending practices. A man in a union hall put it simply: ''When will our 
government care as much for Main Street Americans as Wall Street 
speculators?''

As long as I am here, I will strive to make sure that the voices of 
Main Street are heard as loudly as the voices of Wall Street.

Madam Speaker, you are an inspiration to me, to America, and to women 
all over the world. I stand before you eager to learn and ready to help 
make the laws of the greatest country on Earth reflect its values: 
fairness, justice, and a guarantee that working men and women, parents, 
students, seniors, the disabled, and the disaffected, every American, 
has the right to a seat at the table of opportunity.

Thank you very much.
