# A PHONE CALL IS PRICELESS . . .
## `9fd487e5506516b76904de09916411b1`
`Mr. POE — 5 March 2008`

---


Mr. POE. Madam Speaker, I would like to recognize Cell Phones for 
Soldiers, a non-profit, charitable organization founded by two 
teenagers, Robbie and Brittany Bergquist, from Norwell, Massachusetts. 
True patriots, Robbie and Brittany Bergquist, recognized the fact that 
many of our soldiers are spending a tremendous amount of money on cell 
phone bills to stay connected to their families. They implemented a 
simple plan to help soldiers call home: Collect used cell phones, 
recycle them for cash, and use the money to buy pre-paid calling cards 
to send overseas to our military. Through a network of more than 3,000 
collection sites across the country, they have raised almost $1 million 
in donations and distributed more than 400,000 prepaid calling cards to 
soldiers.

Across my district, I have witnessed patriotic Americans helping 
military families cope through difficult times. I would like to commend 
patriot Dave Kilby with the Greater Humble Area Chamber of Commerce for 
doing his part in helping our soldiers overseas. Four years ago, Dave 
Kilby approached the Greater Humble Area Chamber of Commerce with the 
idea for the chamber to become one of the central drop off sites for 
Cell Phones for Soldiers. This extraordinary group of chamber members 
began promoting and challenging members to recycle used cell phones. 
Soon thereafter, collection boxes were then placed in schools, 
churches, and private businesses. Over 10,000 used cell phones have 
been collected throughout the second district of Texas on behalf of 
Cell Phones for Soldiers program.

Dave Kilby recalls one exceptional event held on behalf of Cell Phone 
for Soldiers at the Houston Astro's Minute Maid Park. Cell Phones for 
Soldiers Day at the park brought Robbie and Brittany Bergquist along 
with their family to Houston. They donated 27,000 phone cards to Col. 
Lanny B. McNeely, Commander of the 147th Fighter Wing stationed at 
Ellington Field. Col. McNeely was able to deliver those cards to troops 
in Iraq.

The Greater Humble Area Chamber of Commerce continues to be the 
designated drop site for Cell Phone for Soldiers. Dave Kilby's 
collections net approximately 100 phones a month. I hope that all of us 
recognize the significant ways in which we can strengthen our Nation's 
Armed Forces. I applaud the efforts of the great State of Texas.

And that's just the way it is.
