---
---

# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `9fda595d2a61f0f01bc5c3e467955cd3`
`Mr. ROGERS of Michigan — 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. ROGERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I commend my friend, Mr. Berman, 
for his efforts on this bill, as I do Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen on her 
efforts on what I think is the most pressing national security issue we 
face today, Pakistan. And when you look at the troubles that they face 
and what a unique country it is, they are a nuclear-armed sovereign 
nation that has expressed concern about its eastern neighbors, the 
Indians, and all of the effort, both diplomatic, economic, militarily, 
intelligence, that they apply to what they view as a problem sect.

And to the west of that country, even in their Constitution, they 
treat differently. They give it special autonomy: the Federally 
Administered Tribal Areas. And that's the area that has caused 
Afghanistan and the United States untold misery, danger, something we 
ought to worry about.

And this bill in the most arrogant way says, You know what? We know 
better than you, Pakistan. We're going to make you set up a teachers' 
pay scale if you want our Federal money, if you want U.S. money to help 
us in the fight against terrorism that is ongoing today by people like 
Batula Masood, who are trying to kill Americans today and make further 
unstable the Pakistani Government, or Fazlullah, who has moved into the 
Swat area, the first time somebody from the tribal areas has taken this 
effort.



Fazlullah, for the first time, took some settled areas. It used to be 
a great area--as a matter of fact, a tourist area in Pakistan, the Swat 
Valley--and the military has had difficulty in trying to extract them 
from what is a settled area in Pakistan. That is real trouble.

Many of you have quoted ''The 60 Miles from Islamabad.'' That was the 
Swat Valley movement, and it was done by Fazlullah, 30-something years 
old, rabid Taliban leader, who was able to, in just a very short period 
of time, take over most of the police stations.

You have al Qaeda senior leadership moving freely with the Haqqani 
network supporting their abilities in the tribal areas of Pakistan. 
Batula Masood, as I said before, has been engaged in terrorist acts not 
only against us, but the Pakistanis.

Their government is at risk, their people are dying. This bill 
arrogantly says, listen, we want you to help us in terrorism, but let 
me tell you what's important, your teacher pay scales. Those are 
important.

This is a sovereign nation. As a matter of fact, Senator Kerry--we 
don't often agree with Senator Kerry--an interesting quote: ''Well''--I 
won't use all of his language--''we're just doing their bidding. We're 
their lackeys. We're not in control. You guys (the Pakistani 
Government) are an American puppet, blah, blah, blah.'' What he was 
saying is, don't put all these arbitrary caveats on this bill.

Let's support President Obama. He hasn't been there that long. He 
wants to implement his policy. He says he needs flexibility. I agree 
with him. This is one of the most complicated, complex problems we will 
face when it comes to national security.

You even, in this bill--and I don't think you're thinking about what 
the implications are--through your labor agreements in this bill, 
inspectors are to publish reports listing the names and locations of 
every firm in the program. This is a nation beleaguered by terrorists. 
Why would you give them a list of targets in Pakistan published by the 
United States Government? It makes no sense whatsoever.

You often talked about the arrogance of the previous administration 
telling people how they ought to live and telling them how they ought 
to govern. This is the most intrusive, most arrogant approach to 
providing someone assistance that is actually helping us fight 
terrorism in the most difficult area I can find in the world today.

I am going to ask you to please take a look at this motion to 
recommit. It puts a little common sense back in it and says, you know 
what, we'll get to the teacher pay scale and merit-based system that 
you would like to get to maybe another day, but today we are worried 
about the safety and security of our soldiers in Afghanistan who are 
under attack from Taliban leaders, headquartered the Shura Council in 
Quetta, Pakistan. We are worried about the Haqqani network, who is 
developing the logistical support that they need through arms and other 
things to help target our soldiers in Afghanistan. We are worried about 
Fazlullah's efforts in his first settled areas of Pakistan. That ought 
to be our watch today.

We are getting ready to send thousands and thousands of fresh United 
States troops to this region. Our focus has to be national security; it 
has to be their security. It has to say, Pakistan, we are a partner, 
not your mother. We are not going to hold your hand in this. We are 
going to be your equal partner in your fight on terror. Thank you for 
your commitment.

We're going to stand up for those folks.

I yield back the remainder of my time.