# None
## `9ff8e8f66f23b21f05bff62c2cf99620`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 2 December 2009`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Madam Speaker, I would like to recognize several 
outstanding individuals from my South Florida community who have been 
named to serve on the National Museum of the American Latino 
Commission: President of Hispanic Events Dr. Aida Levitan, world-
renowned musician and producer Emilio Estefan and Dr. Eduardo Padron, 
President of Miami-Dade College.

The Commission is charged with the planning, construction and design 
of the museum. The Commission's members will also help formulate the 
museum's organizational structure and how to engage the Hispanic 
community in its development and design.

These individuals are not only dedicated to the mission of making a 
National Museum of the American Latino a reality, but they are also 
representative of the great diversity of the Hispanic community that 
the museum will showcase.

The story and history of Hispanic-Americans is part of the rich 
tapestry of this nation's history. Hispanics have enriched our great 
nation in a myriad of ways. Hispanics have served proudly in America's 
defense from the American Revolution to our current engagement in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. The number of Hispanic-owned businesses approached 3 
million in 2008 and they contribute approximately $389 billion dollars 
annually to the U.S. economy.

The Hispanic-American experience is part and parcel of the American 
story. I will be honored to join these talented men and women tomorrow 
with the rest of the members of the Commission. Through their efforts, 
Americans from all walks of life will one day be able to see and 
appreciate the contributions of Hispanic-Americans to our great nation.



