---
---

# None
## `9fff3d61c17bc79c5478732b4ce4b2aa`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I oppose the provisions in this 
conference report, unilaterally added by the Senate, that provide 
immigration benefits to certain Iraqi refugees. As Ranking Member of 
the House ''Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border 
Security and International Law,'' these provisions should have been 
discussed in their proper place, the House Judiciary Committee. 
However, I along with Ranking Member Smith, were basically excluded 
from negotiations. There is no bipartisan support for these provisions 
in the House Judiciary Committee.

This bill grants special immigrant visas each year for the next 5 
years to 5,000 Iraqi nationals and their families. The State Department 
has estimated that for every Iraqi national granted a visa, they will 
bring over at least four family members. Therefore, the number of 
special immigrant visas granted under this bill will reach 25,000 per 
year, or 125,000 total after 5 years.

Mr. Speaker, 125,000 Iraqis that support the United States would be a 
tremendous asset to


Iraq and the United States in the Middle East. These Iraqis should 
remain in their home country to rebuild it and encourage the spread of 
liberty. If we remove every Iraqi that is supportive of the U.S. from 
Iraq, terrorists will have the upper hand. Iraq and the United States 
need these patriotic Iraqis to remain in Iraq and rebuild.

While I sympathize with the Iraqi nationals who have been victims of 
this War on Terror, conditions within the country are improving. I 
encourage the Iraqis to stay and fight for their homeland and freedom 
alongside American troops. That's how we win this War on Terror.

For these reasons I oppose the provisions in the Conference Report to 
H.R. 1585 that provide U.S. immigration benefits to certain Iraqi 
refugees, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. Vote ''no'' on the 
Rule.