---
---

# PRICE OF GASOLINE
## `a001019e7265d6fecf22a7017ce3c3a1`
`Mr. PERLMUTTER — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. PERLMUTTER. Thank you, Mr. Klein.

Every other Saturday I have a ''government at the grocery.'' I visit 
different grocery stores throughout my district. This past week I was 
at a grocery store in Edgewater, Colorado, and the number one topic was 
the price of gas. Usually it has been Iraq, and we certainly are going 
to talk about Iraq tonight, but the number one conversation was about 
the price of gas. And people were saying, look, we understand that on a 
per-barrel basis, it's down, the cost is down, the price is down. Why 
is the cost at the pump up?

And, you know, we have excuses. The excuses this time, Mr. Klein, 
have been, well, we just needed to clean the refineries. They clean the 
refineries right at the beginning of the summer travel season because 
by restricting the supply, you drive up the price, and we can't have 
that anymore. We can't have our people being gouged in this country by 
manipulation of the market in that fashion.



What we are seeing is too few companies controlling too critical an 
item, a commodity, like gasoline, and that is what that price gouging 
bill was all about today. So I can assure you in Colorado, it is a 
major topic of conversation, and people want to see a change, and we 
are bringing that change to them by the bill we passed today and the 
direction we are taking this Congress.

With that, Mr. Kline, I would like to turn it over to my friend from 
Vermont, who always has something to say on any topic, but particularly 
I know he has something to say today on this gasoline price gouging.