---
---

# IN RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL TEACHER DAY
## `a004c23c51f8176a432ad07e7c368818`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 8 May 2007`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I am proud to 
rise today in honor of our nation's teachers, who every day, are 
inspiring people--of all ages--to dream, learn and achieve. Today, on 
National Teacher Day, it is important that we pause to thank educators 
everywhere for their service to our communities and our country. We 
entrust teachers with the development of our children--they are 
responsible for our ability to build a better future.

National Teacher Day should be an opportunity to think about the debt 
we owe our nation's teachers. Madam Speaker, We thank teachers for 
showing children the satisfaction and fulfillment of achieving their 
goals. We thank them for proving that learning can be fun. We thank 
them for contributing to the moral development of students. We thank 
them for guiding our children through every new challenge. But most of 
all, we thank teachers for dedicating their lives to inspiring and 
leading the next generation of Americans.

Madam Speaker, I am passionate about education because it has always 
been such an important part of my life. As a former educator and the 
brother of a schoolteacher I know how important teaching is and how 
rewarding it can be. I was honored to serve as an associate professor 
at the United States Military Academy at West Point where I was able to 
teach the next generation of military leaders. Just recently I saw a 
former student, who is now an officer in Iraq. Seeing the way he has 
grown as person and succeeded as a professional is truly gratifying.

All of us had teachers that changed our lives. Outside of our 
families, teachers are responsible for who we are and how we view the 
world. And the job can be tough, it can be tiring and it can be 
thankless. Madam Speaker, that is why it is so important for all of us 
to take time to show our appreciation, not just today, but anytime we 
remember a lesson learned and overcome a challenge. I will take time 
today to think about the teachers who helped shape my life and I 
encourage my colleagues to do the same.
