# None
## `a00a94e49893cc0841eac057147f3823`
`Mr. CHAMBLISS â€” 6 June 2008`

---


Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today, June 6, 2008, the 64th 
anniversary of D-day, to commend our Armed Forces for their ongoing 
contributions in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other countries where they are 
currently deployed, as well as their history of service and sacrifice 
for our country and for the causes of freedom and democracy worldwide.

Yesterday, I had the privilege of attending the Board of Visitors 
meeting for the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, 
which is located at Fort Benning, GA. WHINSEC, as it is called, 
provides security cooperation and strategic partnerships with countries 
in the Western Hemisphere in order to support democracy and human 
rights, and they have made a tremendous contribution since WHINSEC's 
inception in 2000.

The chairman of the Board of Visitors of WHINSEC, who is a Roman 
Catholic bishop, commented that members of the military are ''agents of 
mercy.'' He is correct, and ultimately that is the role our military 
has played in the world in the 64 years since U.S. and Allied forces 
landed on the beaches of Normandy.

No one joins the military to get rich and famous, since the life of 
military personnel almost always takes place behind the scenes and out 
of the headlines. Many people join the military to achieve a better way 
of life and associate with a bigger cause than themselves. The military 
has provided a way for countless numbers of Americans to improve their 
own quality of life and learn the skills they need to succeed. We 
should be proud of the positive effect the military has on those who 
serve in its ranks.

But there is one thing everyone who serves in the military has in 
common, they join to serve. They join, realizing their service makes 
the lives of their fellow Americans better and more secure. But also, 
they know their service makes the lives in other countries safer and 
more prosperous.

Without question, that is the result of the service of our military 
personnel over the last 64 years in places such as Germany, France, 
Bosnia, Kosovo, Korea, Afghanistan, Iraq, Grenada, Panama, Haiti, 
Vietnam, and countless other locations where U.S. military personnel 
have served and sacrificed. These countries are more prosperous today 
because of the commitment of our Nation's military personnel.

No military, and no institution for that matter, is perfect. However, 
we should not be surprised that year after year the United States 
Military remains one of the most trusted professions. They deserve that 
position based on their commitment to a cause greater than themselves, 
their integrity, and their commitment to excellence. Today, there are 
1.4 million personnel serving on Active Duty in our Nation's military, 
along with 1.2 million serving in the Reserve components. All of them 
deserve our appreciation and gratitude for their service, their 
sacrifice, and their contribution to our Nation's security and 
contributions to freedom and democracy around the world.

I ask my colleagues to join me in expressing thanks for them and for 
the key role they have played and continue to play in serving and 
sacrificing for our country and for those in other countries where they 
are serving.

I yield the floor.