# None
## `a01082a4bddab8be4178fb2366cf7317`
`Mr. CORNYN — 23 September 2008`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I wish today to honor the life and service 
of a dedicated marine, MSG Kenneth Nathaniel Mack. On May 5th, 2007, 
Master Sergeant Mack gave his life in service to his country fighting 
in Iraq. In his 23 years of service to the U.S. Marine Corps, Master 
Sergeant Mack proved himself a dedicated marine and a trusted colleague 
to all who served by his side.

Born in Goldsboro, NC, on December 18, 1964, Kenneth's family soon 
moved to Texas, where he graduated from Southwest High School in 1982 
and attended Tarrant County Junior College in Fort Worth.

While still in college, Master Sergeant Mack joined the Marine Corps 
Reserves, following his love of country, as well as his interest in 
automotive repair work. While many of his fellow students considered 
weekends simply a time to relax, Kenneth chose to spend many of those 
weekends at military drill in Abilene. In 1991, Kenneth was called upon 
to serve his country in combat during Operation Desert Storm. It would 
not be the last time he served on a far-away field of battle.

Following the conclusion of the first gulf war, Kenneth returned 
home, married his wife Peggie, and started his family. Like so many 
members of our Nation's Reserve forces, Kenneth worked hard to balance 
his military service and civilian job with his family life. He 
succeeded, as evidenced by the lasting legacy of love and compassion 
that he left behind with his family. He cherished his time with them 
and was known for always bringing the family together.

In 2004, Kenneth was once again called to serve overseas and deployed 
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. After helping to liberate the 
Iraqi people from an oppressive government regime, Master Sergeant Mack 
returned home. In March of 2007, he answered his country's call for the 
third time, returning to serve in Iraq. Sadly, just a few short months 
later, Master Sergeant Mack was killed by an improvised explosive 
device while conducting combat operations there.

In honor of his service and his selfless sacrifice, Congress passed 
legislation earlier this year naming the Wedgwood Station Post Office 
the ''Master Sergeant Kenneth N. Mack Post Office Building.'' Master 
Sergeant Mack will be remembered across Texas for his generosity and 
loving attitude towards children, which extended well beyond his own 
family. He will also be remembered for his enthusiasm for hobbies such 
as scuba diving, skydiving, and motorcycle riding; and his love for the 
U.S. Marine Corps.

MSG Kenneth Mack is survived by his wife, Peggie; his children, 
Candace, Courtney, Shyquadra, and Nathaniel; his mother, Mahalia S. 
Mack; and his brothers, Timothy and Robert. It is my honor today to 
share Kenneth's story, and pay tribute to his remarkable service and 
sacrifice for this country, which shall be forever indebted to him.
