# DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS NATIONAL MEMORIAL ACT
## `a016616dc16b25fa01ad8e7982ef246f`
`Mr. CALVERT — 18 March 2010`

---


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2788, a bill to 
designate a National Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial in Riverside, 
California. I'm honored to represent the Inland Empire chapter of the 
Distinguished Flying Cross Society, which is the primary sponsor of the 
memorial.

Last June, I introduced H.R. 2788, which would designate a memorial 
which is currently under construction at March Field Air Museum as the 
Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial. It honors all current and 
former members of the Armed Forces who have been awarded the 
Distinguished Flying Cross.

The bill has strong bipartisan support from both the committee and 
with 48 cosponsors. The legislation is supported by the Distinguished 
Flying Cross Society, the Military Officers Association of America, the 
Air Force Association, the Air Force Sergeants Association, the 
Association of Naval Aviation, the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots 
Association, and the China-Burma-India Veterans Association.

I would like to point out language in the bill that specifically 
states that the designation shall not be construed to require or permit 
Federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to a national 
memorial. Funds have been and will continue to be raised through 
private means for these purposes.

Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received the prestigious 
medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while 
participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the 
U.S. Armed Forces. There are many people who have played a vital role 
in the history of military aviation and have received this award. This 
renowned group includes Captain Charles L. Lindbergh, former President 
George H.W. Bush, Brigadier General Jimmy Doolittle, General Curtis 
LeMay, Senator McCain, Jimmy Stewart, and Admiral Jim Stockdale, just 
to name a few.

The March Air Reserve Base, which hosts the C-17As of the 452nd Air 
Mobility Wing, is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March 
Field Air Museum. When completed, visitors will be able to witness 
active operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many 
aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial 
flight.

I would like to thank those who worked tirelessly to make sure this 
memorial is built and is properly designated in honor of the 
distinguished aviators that have served this great Nation. In 
particular, I would like to recognize Jim Chaplin, with the loving 
support of his wife, Trish, who just recently passed away, who have 
been instrumental in this effort.

Again, I hope you will join me in supporting the designation of the 
National Flying Cross Memorial at March Field Air Museum and H.R. 2788.