---
---

# PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007
## `a0227a5fb31d3476be11b5e54cc9a25f`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 5 March 2008`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, I worked as a social worker 
before my career in public office, and I've seen firsthand the results 
when mental illnesses go untreated. Those who develop a severe mental 
illness can go from having a career and a family to losing everything.

About half our States now have implemented full mental health parity 
requirements, and these States have learned a very valuable lesson. 
They've learned that the benefits of ensuring parity are worthwhile.



Far too many people's illnesses, mental illnesses, linger without 
treatment, triggering physical complications that only result in more 
costs. So, proper diagnosis and treatment greatly offset these costs 
and save health care dollars over the long term.

This bill will also help our servicemembers fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan as they transition to civilian life because national 
barriers to mental health care ripple out to everyone. Post-traumatic 
stress disorder and other combat-related conditions can take months, if 
not years, to develop after discharge. Many of these veterans will not 
have access to VA health facilities and will rely upon private health 
insurance to obtain treatment.

Finally, and most importantly, this legislation also addresses the 
stigma


attached to mental health care. It loudly communicates that mental 
health care is on an equal footing with physical health care.

Mr. Speaker, I give my enthusiastic support to the Paul Wellstone 
Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act. I thank the sponsors and 
encourage my colleagues to join me in voting for it today.