# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a023f23c021ff1f7ab1bf5c9eb33d23c`
`Mr. OLVER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. OLVER. Madam Speaker, I support the resolution before us today. 
In clear and succinct language it says what I believe must be said 
regarding the war in Iraq that America is engaged in by the choice of 
President Bush.

I support our men and women on the front line with all the training, 
the body and vehicle armor and the equipment they need to be successful 
at the task that they have been given, and I support them as they 
return, whether safe and sound or scarred by grievous wounds. Almost 
24,000 have been wounded, and many returned broken in body or spirit. 
Many have suffered permanently disabling wounds. Thousands of others, 
not physically wounded, suffer severe traumatic stress disorders. And 
all will need and must be given the care and rehabilitation they have 
been promised.

America mourns the loss of more than 3,000 of our soldiers since that 
fateful first day of May in 2003 when President George W. Bush 
triumphantly proclaimed ''Mission Accomplished.'' At no time in the 220 
years since the founding of our Nation has America suffered such 
casualties during an occupation following war. This occupation has been 
spectacularly mismanaged, yet Americans are asked to suspend doubt and 
support an already used tactic, placing almost 20,000 additional troops 
on the ground around the clock, with our young men and women caught 
between the combatants in the civil war raging in Baghdad's urban 
streets and neighborhoods.

I oppose this escalation. It is 4 years too late and more than 
100,000 troops too few. The tactic itself has been used repeatedly over 
the last 4 years, with dangerously counterproductive results. Each time 
this tactic has been used, it has left behind greater hatred for the 
occupation and the occupiers, as well as thousands of new recruits for 
the insurgency or al Qaeda. I believe that this escalation will be 
remembered for the deaths of many more American soldiers and Iraqi 
civilians.

President George W. Bush has repeatedly cited the 300,000 strong 
Iraqi army and police force which we have spent billions of dollars to 
train and equip. They should be pacifying their capital city. As 
dysfunctional as it is, the Iraqi government which we created must 
decide whether they want all-out civil war or a stable, unified Iraq, 
with oil revenues fairly distributed and with changes to their 
Constitution to assure the rights of 40 percent of the population who 
are not Shia Muslims. We cannot decide that for them.

The civil war will continue and our casualties will continue to mount 
until we disengage our forces from a direct military role, except to 
deny haven to al Qaeda. We must place responsibility directly on the 
Iraqi government.

At this very late date, virtually everyone agrees that peace and 
stability for Iraq cannot be secured militarily, but only politically. 
Our best chance for a positive outcome to this tragic and unnecessary 
war is outlined and unanimously recommended by the Iraq Study Group, 
led by former Secretary of State James Baker and former Congressman Lee 
Hamilton.

We should substitute a robust, multifaceted diplomatic campaign to 
discourage all of Iraq's neighbors from engagement in the growing civil 
war and to gain support and assistance for a stable, unified Iraq. That 
diplomatic campaign must involve major powers and regional groups like 
the European Union and the Arab league, along with all of Iraq's 
neighbors, without exception or precondition. The U.S. should always be 
willing to talk. In every way, talk is far less costly than war.

In a month, the war in Iraq will have gone on 4 years, well beyond 
our participation in World War II. It is time to begin bringing our 
troops home.