---
---

# AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM AND SECURITY SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `a030cbab73101f3fe95d306226e2ec25`
`Mr. FRANKS of Arizona — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.

Mr. Chairman, according to Secretary of Defense Gates, Iranian 
weapons have begun to flow into Afghanistan in recent months. We know 
this much for certain. What we do not know is if indeed this is an 
official sanction of the Iranian government.

However, some in the intelligence community believe that this effort 
is on the part of a branch of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, which 
are responsible for shipping these deadly weapons to the Taliban. If 
this is true, Mr. Chairman, the implications must be realized by this 
Congress, because it means that Shiite Iran is disregarding sectarian 
differences with Sunni Taliban in order to unite with them in an effort 
to undermine U.S. efforts for peace in the nascent democratic 
Afghanistan.

Mr. Chairman, this means that the nation of Iran is determined to 
back non-state Muslim militants to terrorize countries who desire 
peace, tolerance and stability. We saw them do this last year in 
Lebanon through their proxy Hezbollah against the nation of Israel. We 
now see this happening in Iraq as well.

There are two major elements, Mr. Chairman, when we consider the 
danger of an enemy to this Nation. We first have to assess their 
intention or the will of an enemy to harm the U.S. or our allies. It is 
clear that the Taliban, Hamas, Hezbollah and groups like them hate 
governments like ours that uphold the rule of law and uphold the effort 
to protect freedom of action, thought and religion. They hate the 
United States because of this, Mr. Chairman. They hate a tolerant 
Europe, they hate the new democratic Afghanistan, they hate pluralistic 
Israel and they hate Lebanon. They have an insidious and determined 
will to tyrannize. They need only the means or the capacity to bring 
that hate to fruition.

Mr. Chairman, this is the second element. A true threat exists to 
this Nation's freedom when those who are committed to tyranny and to 
disrupt peace are met with the means and the capacity to do so. Iran is 
providing the means to non-state terrorist actors who possess the will 
to use them.



We must not let this continue. My amendment requires that the 
Secretary of Defense provide Congress with a semiannual report that 
informs us of the Iranian-made weapons being provided to the Taliban, 
and any evidence that the sale is endorsed by the government of Iran.

Mr. Chairman, it is vital that this body understands the intention of 
Iran


because they may some day very soon possess a very frightening capacity 
that threatens the potential future of the world and the peace of free 
people across the world.

I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment.

I would now like to yield to the distinguished ranking member of the 
committee, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen.