---
---

# None
## `a034169d68c460950df7e70c510c21b9`
`Mr. SERRANO — 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. I thank the gentleman. You are right. Perhaps it is that 
example that I present to you that shows why the system is broken. 
Because my parents chose to move in 1950 to New York, I am able to be a 
Member of Congress with full voting rights.

Had I stayed in Puerto Rico, I could only aspire to be a Resident 
Commissioner, which is fine enough, but without full voting rights. So, 
question: Since when does residency overpower and overtake citizenship? 
The 4 million people who live in Puerto Rico, the citizens, American 
citizens who live in all of the territories, have no way to represent 
themselves in Congress, have no way to vote for the President of the 
United States.

At this very moment, dozens of Puerto Ricans are mourned as they have 
died in the war in Iraq. Yet, their colleagues who will come back will 
not be able to express themselves in Congress, or express themselves 
through a Presidential vote in terms of how they feel about that war or 
about that service.

And so the issue today is simply this: Do you believe that American 
citizens, American citizens, that has to be repeated, American 
citizens, who live in territories, not States, have certain rights? I 
believe they have full rights. If it was up to me they would have full 
voting representation.

All we are saying today is that those Delegates, these 
representatives, will have a right to participate on the House floor.



We don't even go far enough to say that if the vote makes a 
difference, it stays put; there is a revote.

So what are we really giving them? An opportunity to participate in 
democracy. How can we be trying to spread democracy throughout the 
world when we are not willing to spread it right here at home?

Four million citizens live in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Those 
4 million could have six or seven Members of Congress if they were a 
State. The gentleman, rightfully so, says, well, if they want to be a 
State, they should be a State. There is only one problem with that: The 
group holding the colony, the American Government, has to initiate that 
progress, that system, to bring people into the Union.


You can't hold a colony for 108 years, in the case of Puerto Rico, and 
expect them to tell you at what time they want to be whatever they want 
to be, because for 108 years you have divided them into three different 
movements: independence, Commonwealth, statehood.

If we are holding the territory of Puerto Rico, it is our 
responsibility to say, we are ready to invite you to come in.