# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a03766b93433ed4ca81188f02910f029`
`Mr. McCAIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, before I begin my comments on the pending 
amendment, I think--I hope it is appropriate to mention our colleague 
from Nebraska, Senator Hagel, has announced his intentions not to seek 
reelection in this body.

I have the highest degree of affection and respect for my friend; we 
have adjoining offices in the Russell Senate Office Building. He has 
served this Nation in many capacities, including in combat during the 
Vietnam War. I think he has been an outstanding Member of this body and 
a dear friend. I will say a lot more about him in many venues, but I 
wish to express my appreciation for his outstanding service in the 
Senate, to the people of Nebraska, and to this country.

On July 11 of this year, I spoke against Senator Webb's amendment on 
dwell time, as it is now called. The amendment has not changed 
substantially since then. I thought the debate at the time was 
comprehensive and adequately addressed the merits of the proposal. But 
here we are again. Here we are again. Why?

In July, Senator Webb said:




 This is an amendment that is focused squarely on supporting 


 our troops who are fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan; it 


 speaks directly to their welfare and the needs of their 


 families by establishing minimum periods between deployments.


More recently, he has called it a ''safety net for the troops.'' I 
have no doubt of Senator Webb's sincerity and his concern for our 
ground troops and their families. No one in this body has served his 
family more honorably than Senator Webb.


I share Senator Webb's concerns for the well-being of our troops and 
their families, as I know all Senators do. But let me be clear: Senator 
Webb's amendment is not a litmus test for whether you care about the 
troops. Would it not be great if our choices were that easy.

I argued back in July, and I repeat today, that the amendment would 
do more harm than good and should not pass. But the question remains: 
Why are we arguing again? Why are we arguing again about this proposal?

Unfortunately, the reason is obvious. It was spelled out in a New 
York Times article on September 15, by David Herszenhorn and David 
Cloud, who stated:




 The proposal by Senator Webb has strong support from top 


 Democrats who say that the practical effect would be to add 


 time between deployments and force General Petraeus to 


 withdraw troops on a substantially swifter timeline than the 


 one he laid out before Congress this week.


Senator Biden was quoted in the article as calling the proposal the 
''easiest way for his Republican colleagues to change the war 
strategy,'' to change the war strategy. The reporters referred to the 
amendment as a ''backdoor approach'' aimed at influencing the conduct 
of the war. That is what this amendment is about.

I say to my colleagues, I will say it again and again, the 
President's present strategy is succeeding. If you want the troops out, 
support the present mission, support the mission that is succeeding. 
Don't say you support the troops when you do not support their mission. 
Excuse me, I support you but not the mission you are


embarking on today as you go out and put your life and limb on the line 
in a surge that is succeeding--that is succeeding.

We will have a lot of discussion on the floor of this body about the 
Maliki Government and the national police and the other challenges we 
have, but the military side of this is succeeding. This goes at the 
heart, this goes at the heart of the surge that is showing success in 
Anbar Province, in Baghdad, and other parts of Iraq.

Now, maybe someone does not agree with that. Maybe that is the point. 
But the effect of this amendment--the effect of this amendment--would 
be to emasculate this surge. That is why the Secretary of Defense, Mr. 
Gates, sent a letter to my colleague, Senator Graham, which I intend to 
quote from in a minute. So what is this debate about? This debate is 
about whether we will force, as Senator Biden was quoted, as the 
easiest way for his Republican colleagues to change the war strategy, 
this backdoor approach aimed at influencing the conduct of the war.

Not only that, it is blatantly unconstitutional. Are we going to 
have, in conflicts the American people engage in--if it is unpopular 
with the American people, the way the Korean war was unpopular--and 
somehow designate who should stay and who should not and how long?

That is a micromanagement of the military that is very difficult to 
comprehend. The President is the Commander in Chief because he is the 
Commander in Chief. Nowhere in the Goldwater-Nickles bill, nowhere in 
the Constitution do I see the role for Congress to play in determining 
the parameters under which the men and women who have enlisted and are 
serving in the military, in an enterprise which the majority of this 
body voted to support, being embarked on.

Secretary Gates echoed this assessment last weekend in various 
interviews, stating the Webb amendment is:




 Really pretty much a backdoor effort to get the President 


 to accelerate the drawdown so that it is an automatic kind of 


 thing, rather than based on conditions in Iraq.


So I would say to my colleagues, let's not conceal or fail to mention 
the intended effect or purpose of this amendment. I wish to repeat, 
every one of us, every one of us cares about the men and women who are 
serving in the military, every single one of us on an equal basis. It 
is clear that in the wake of General Petraeus's report, the majority 
has brought this back in order to reduce the numbers of fully trained 
and combat-experienced troops available to our military commanders and 
thus to force an accelerated drawdown of troops and units in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

Why don't we be clear about that? Let's consider the impact of this 
amendment on the force. The effect of the amendment would be to exclude 
fully trained, combat-experienced officers, NCOs, soldiers, and marines 
from military units that need them to perform in combat. I think we 
should ask the question: Will an unintended consequence of this 
amendment be to cause harm to our troops? I argued in July, as did 
various other Senators, that the amendment would cause harm to the 
mission, the units, and members who would have to succeed in combat 
despite the obstacle this amendment would impose.

Now we have the view of Secretary Gates to consider in a letter 
regarding the Webb amendment, which without objection, Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record.