# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a03cdadd1bd68c83e88aa7dd0b76883d`
`Mr. CONRAD — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, the September 11, 2001 attack by al-Qaida, 
led by Osama bin Laden, is seared on the soul of the Nation. I know it 
is a day I will never forget. President Bush vowed then to bring Osama 
bin Laden and his al-Qaida terrorist allies to justice.

Days after 9/11, President Bush said:




 This act will not stand; we will find those who did it; we 


 will smoke them out of their holes . . . we will bring 


 them to justice.


Every American shared those feelings. Similar to Pearl Harbor, the 
date of 9/11 became a seminal moment for our Nation, a day we cannot 
and must not forget. But it has now been nearly 6 years--2,130 days--
since the attacks of 9/11--that's more time than America took fighting 
fascism in World War II.

Osama bin Laden is still at large. In fact, he and al-Qaida are 
gaining strength, by all accounts. Two weeks ago in Great Britain, we 
saw a failed attempt to target airports with car bombs. Two years ago, 
London subway bombings killed 52 and injured 700--bombings which may be 
linked to al-Qaida.

Today's newspapers report U.S. intelligence analysts have concluded 
that


al-Qaida has rebuilt to its pre-9/11 strengths. These analysts say al-
Qaida is ''considerably operationally stronger than a year ago'' and 
has ''regrouped to an extent not seen since 2001.'' The reports suggest 
al-Qaida has created ''the most robust training program since 2001, 
with an interest in using European operatives'' and is ''showing 
greater and greater ability to plan attacks in Europe and the United 
States.''

Private experts agree al-Qaida is now stronger than before. According 
to the National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism, the 
number of al-Qaida operatives worldwide has grown from 20,000 6 years 
ago to 50,000 today.

What is going on here? What does it say to jihadists around the world 
that a terrorist mastermind such as bin Laden can kill 3,000 Americans 
and remain alive and untouched 6 years later? What does it say that he 
and his allies are gaining strength?

There can be only one conclusion: The President got our priorities 
wrong. Before finishing with al-Qaida and capturing bin Laden, 
President Bush lost focus.

We know who attacked us on 9/11. It was Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida, 
not Saddam Hussein and Iraq. Yet the painful truth is the 
administration got our priorities wrong. The President pulled troops 
and intelligence specialists out of Afghanistan and the search for 
Osama bin Laden and the leaders of al-Qaida and instead attacked Iraq.

USA Today reported:




 In 2002, troops from the 5th Special Forces Group who 


 specialize in the Middle East were pulled out of the hunt for 


 Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan to prepare for their next 


 assignment: Iraq. Their replacements were troops with 


 expertise in Spanish culture.


Are people hearing this? We pulled experts in the Arab language and 
Middle East culture out of the hunt for Osama bin Laden, an Arabic 
speaker who led the attack on us, and we put those troops over into the 
hunt for Saddam Hussein in Iraq and replaced them with experts in 
Spanish culture. There are not many Spanish speakers in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan.




 The CIA, meanwhile, was stretched badly in its capacity to 


 collect, translate, and analyze information coming from 


 Afghanistan. When the White House raised a new priority, it 


 took specialists away from the Afghanistan effort to ensure 


 Iraq was covered.


I believe this will go down in history as a profound mistake. We lost 
focus. The President took us on a path that proved to be a distraction. 
Instead of following up on Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida, we got 
diverted and directed our energy and attention to Saddam Hussein and 
Iraq. I believe the priorities were wrong.

The former head of the CIA's bin Laden unit called the invasion of 
Iraq ''a godsend to Osama bin Laden.'' So I have to ask why--why did we 
allow our post-9/11 focus on bin Laden to be distracted? Why didn't we 
have enough forces on the ground at Tora Bora to get the job done and 
capture bin Laden and his al-Qaida allies? The answer, I believe, 
unfortunately is clear: The administration made a strategic error and 
shifted its focus from Afghanistan to Iraq. I believe, as I have said 
before, that that was a profound mistake.

I spent the last 2 years of my high school years living in the Arab 
culture. I attended an American Air Force base high school in Tripoli, 
Libya. In that culture, it is critically important not to allow someone 
to go uncaptured and unaccounted for who launched an attack. If you 
don't finish business with those who attack you, they only grow in the 
public mind. That is absolutely the wrong message to send.

Last September, the administration once again showed it is not 
focused on al-Qaida. President Bush's national strategy for combating 
terrorism includes only one passing reference to Osama bin Laden. Last 
September, the White House issued an updated strategy for 
counterterrorism. In a 23-page document, bin Laden's name appears only 
once.

This man ordered the killing of 3,000 innocent Americans, but in the 
administration's report on fighting terrorist threats, he is only an 
afterthought.

It has now been 2,130 days since President Bush said ''We will find 
those who did it; we will smoke them out of their holes . . . we will 
bring them to justice.'' Those were absolutely the right sentiments and 
the right plan. Unfortunately, the President's strategy has failed. He 
has not found Osama bin Laden. He has not smoked him out of his hole, 
and he has not been brought to justice. Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida 
operatives continue to threaten this Nation.

I believe that is unacceptable. We must capture or kill Osama bin 
Laden. We must bring his entire network of terrorists to justice. I 
believe deeply that stopping al-Qaida should be our top priority.

Our amendment makes that clear. It is very simple. It says that 
capturing or killing Osama bin Laden and dismantling al-Qaida should be 
our top priority.

Our amendment has two parts. First, it doubles the bounty on Osama 
bin Laden. Whether we capture or kill him, it is past time that he be 
brought to justice. I urge my colleagues to join us in sending that 
message.

Second, our amendment requires a clear report to Congress, laying out 
the administration's strategy for bringing bin Laden and al-Qaida 
operatives to justice.

I urge my colleagues to make it this Nation's top military priority 
to bring Osama bin Laden to the justice that he deserves as the world's 
most notorious terrorist.

I yield the floor.