---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a049f788dac5052e37b5a4c9ccafe17d`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today, first and foremost, to praise the courage, 
performance, and commitment of our troops stationed in Iraq and 
elsewhere. We are immensely grateful for their sacrifices.

Because of this war in Iraq, today the lives of the 135,000 military 
families are disrupted, and 125,000 civilian contractor families are 
divided. Nearly 4,000 U.S. soldiers and civilian contractors have 
already given their lives. We have lost over 140 young New York 
military men and women in Iraq.

I voted against this war from day one. It was a mistake then, and it 
is a mistake today. This week, we have a chance to act. Escalation is 
wrong, and we must take it upon ourselves to make things right by 
seeking a political solution to this war.

This administration's flawed foreign policy has damaged our 
relationship with our allies. The public opposes this war, Iraqis 
oppose this war, the world opposes this war, and this Congress should 
speak loudly against this war, too.

Our military has been stretched to the brink of breakdown. Our 
actions in Iraq have set back the war on terror and made problems in 
the Middle East much worse.

This war has distracted us from our responsibilities at home, too. 
Poverty is raging. Millions have lost their jobs and health insurance. 
Families struggle to pay for the cost of transportation, energy, and 
housing. Yet we choose to spend $8 billion of hard-earned money every 
month in Iraq, not at home.

While the cost of the war escalates, our most important social 
programs for our kids, the elderly, and the poor get slashed to pay for 
it. We have dug a deep hole of debt to finance this war in Iraq, and we 
will ask the children of working families to pay off that debt.


These priorities are misplaced. We should be investing in our children, 
not borrowing against their future.

Our young men and women return from Iraq with all sorts of health 
problems, both physical and psychological. The trauma of this war will 
affect the lives of our veterans forever. This resolution expresses our 
commitment to supporting our veterans' needs. We must honor the 
sacrifices that our veterans have made for this Nation. We must provide 
for them from the moment they get home to their families.

I believe this war is more wrong today than ever before. We must 
stand forcefully for what is right, for our troops, for the victims of 
this war, and for the priorities we are neglecting at home.

Let this body send the world a powerful message that the United 
States is changing course in Iraq. We must end this war.