# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a053ca31ed4f80435d1a6b579dabe042`
`Mr. OBEY — 18 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, let me assure the gentleman that his party 
did not lose the last election because they did too much for education. 
Rather, they lost the last election, in my view, because the public so 
clearly understood that their party preferred to put spending $57 
billion in tax cuts for people who make over $1 million to providing 
decent funding for education.



And the public understood that the other party preferred to spend 
$600 billion in Iraq rather than spending a small portion of that at 
home for science and health care and the like to meet some of the needs 
of our own people. That is why the gentleman's party lost the last 
election, not because they did too much for education but because they 
were out of touch.

Having said that, let me simply say that this amendment eliminates 
funding for the National Writing Project. I would simply point out that 
this program supports teacher training programs so that teachers can 
help students write effectively and school districts match those funds 
dollar for dollar.



I must say all of us have large turnover of our staff here on Capitol 
Hill. The number one problem that I have in my office and the number 
one problem I have heard so many other Members comment on is that when 
young people come in and interview for jobs, they don't know how to 
write.

When both of my sons went away to college, at least my oldest son 
asked me, ''Dad, what do you think is the most important thing to 
learn?''

And I said, I think the most important thing to learn is how to write 
because if you can write clearly, it means you are thinking clearly, 
and if you are thinking clearly, it means you can communicate. And I 
would say that I don't think that this country is over blessed with a 
number of great writers. I also must say if you listen to some of the 
congressional speeches written by our staffs, you would certainly agree 
that we need more help in writing in this country.

So let me simply say that I understand that we are engaged in a 
little filibuster by amendment. But nonetheless, I wanted to take this 
time to simply urge Members to vote against this amendment. If you 
believe in raising the quality of discourse in this country, you have 
to start with writing, and that is what this program tries to do.

I would urge a ''no'' vote on the amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.