---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `a061bd0c4727f07d922222ec4133c8a0`
`Mr. AKIN — 26 June 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Madam Speaker, in accordance with House Republican 
Conference standards, and Clause 9 of rule XXI, I submit the following 
member requests regarding H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization 
Act of 2010.

Project: Air Filtrations Systems for Helicopters

Account: Department of Defense, Army, Aircraft Modifications

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Aerospace Filtration Systems, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4 Research Park Dr, Suite 200, St 
Charles, MO, USA

Description of Request: To provide $2,000,000 to install barrier 
filtration systems on National Guard aircraft. This request would allow 
the National Guard to obtain dramatic savings by reducing engine 
replacements and thus maintenance, keeping overall engine performance 
from being reduced due to erosion and Foreign Object damage (FOD), and 
increasing readiness rates of the ARNG fleet. The earmark will address 
a portion of the ARNG fleet to include: AH-64A APU Barrier Filter--32 
Aircraft; AH-64D APU Barrier Filter--48 Aircraft; CH-47 APU Barrier 
Filter--80 Aircraft; OH-58A/C Engine Barrier Filter--50 Aircraft. AFS 
Barrier Filtration Systems capture 99% of the dirt and debris that 
would otherwise enter the engine or APU and cause a significant loss of 
performance. This prevents engines/APU's from being removed from the 
aircraft for costly maintenance or overhaul. Engine overhaul costs 
could cost as much as $300,000 on one engine. By extending the life of 
the engine/APU up to 11 times, the savings from one installation kit 
could be as high as $6.6M on one AH-64 helicopter alone. AFS barrier 
filters in use by the U.S. Army in the deserts of Iraq and Afghanistan 
have been proven extremely effective. These kits have allowed engines 
to reach TBO and have been a major part of unprecedented readiness 
rates for the aircraft fleets.

Project: Hyperspectral Imaging for Improved Force Protection (HYPER-
IFP)

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E (CERDEC, NVESD, Special 
Projects)



Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Clean Earth Technologies, LLC.

Address of Requesting Entity: 13378 Lakefront Drive, Earth City, MO, 
USA

Description of Request: To provide $5,400,000 for the Hyper-IFP 
(Hyper spectral Sensor for Improved Force Protection) Program. The 
introduction of a Hyper-IFP in FY08 is allowing the detection and 
recognition of humans (with a near zero false alarm rate) and providing 
indication of other certain physiological triggers that can indicate 
that a person is under extreme stress such as contemplating ''bad'' 
behavior. To date successful development, test and evaluation has been 
done in the lab, though these systems have not been fully optimized for 
theatre operation or for costs. The continued funding of Hyper-IFP will 
operationalize and integrate the knowledge gain in the lab and apply it 
in a true-fielded application at an affordable cost. The Hyper-IFP 
system will also be environmentally hardened to allow field deployment 
and allow integration w/other FP sensors in the last quarter of 2009. 
Hyper-IFP is focused on the missions of Perimeter Security, Suicide 
Bomb Detection and Urban Route Recon. Utility will be demonstrated 
through an evaluation in both the Southwest border and contingency 
mission in Southwest Asia. This effort will require leveraging the 
current Force Protection sensor suite designs for the missions cites to 
maintain interoperability. In the end, this request focuses on both 
achieving data verification, and the delivery of sufficient hardware to 
validate the Technical Data package for re-procurement as well as 
demonstrate the system's ability to deploy to DoD/DHS users for the 
missions described. The Night Vision Electronic Sensors Directorate, 
Ft. Belvoir, Virginia, is very supportive of this project.

Project: Backpack Medical Oxygen System (BMOS)

Account: Department of Defense, Air Force, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Essex Cryogenics of Missouri Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 8007 Chivvis Drive, St. Louis, MO 
63123-2395

Description of Request: To provide $2,900,000 for improving Air Force 
oxygen generation technology for emergency field medical rescues. With 
modification, the Backpack Medical Oxygen System (BMOS) is the system 
that satisfies the USAF Requirement for a small deployable oxygen 
generator system. This spiral development program for the BMOS system 
will significantly decrease the time and funds required to field 
critical capabilities needed today by our warfighters. The U.S. Air 
Force requirement for oxygen is a minimum of 93% pure oxygen at 6 
liters per minute for critically injured personnel and the BMOS 
satisfies that requirement.

Project: High Power Electrolytic Super-Capacitors Based on Conducting 
Polymers

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E, Weapons and Munitions 
Technology

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Crosslink, Inc

Address of Requesting Entity: 950 Bolger Court, St. Louis, MO 63026

Description of Request: To provide $9,000,000 for the development of 
State of the art electrolytic supercapacitors for the purpose of 
supplying Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) weapons, which are dubbed the 
''Objective Force Weapons,'' with quick discharging/recharging energy 
storage systems that are capable of high power pulses, on the order of 
megawatts, to be delivered in the hundreds of microseconds to one 
millisecond time range to make these weapons successful. Approximately 
21% of the funds will be used for salaries for four (4) employees, 43% 
for equipment and materials, and 36% for indirect costs associated with 
completing the project. This project has received past funding of $2.6 
million in FY'07, $2.4 million in FY'08, and $800,000 in FY'09. 
Crosslink, University of Missouri-St. Louis, University of Missouri-
Rolla and University of Florida have collaborated to develop new 
polyaniline and PXDOT (poly(3,4-Alkylenedioxythiophene--Conjugated 
electroactive polymers). The results of this collaboration will be the 
development of devices capable of power delivery rates significantly 
faster than standard supercapacitors.

Project: Aircrew Body Armor and Load Carriage Vest System

Account: Other Procurement--U.S. Air Force

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Eagle Industries

Address of Requesting Entity: 1000 Biltmore Drive, Fenton, MO 63026

Description of Request: To provide $9,000,000 to issue the Aircrew 
Body Armor Load Carriage Vest System, an integrated body armor vest 
system, to aircrew personnel. The system provides fire retardancy and 
ballistics protection from a wide array of threats including small arms 
fire, fragmenting shrapnel and spall, while decreasing the heat stress 
and weight burdens faced by airmen. Currently issued aircrew flight 
equipment survival vests are not body armor-compatible due to weight, 
heat, and survivability concerns. Current issue is not fire retardant 
and fails to meet the present needs of the U.S. Air Force. Of the $9 
million, approximately 25% is for materials; 25% is for labor; and 50% 
is for armor and armor integration.

This request is consistent with the intended and authorized purpose 
of the U.S. Air Force--Other Procurement account. If funded in full, 
this is a one-time funding request with the goal of the Air Force using 
internally budgeted funding to continue fielding the system to aircrew 
personnel.

Project: Mission Equipment Technology Implementation (METI)

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: QinetiQ North America (Formerly 
Westar Aerospace and Defense Group)

Address of Requesting Entity: 36 Research Park Ct., St. Charles, MO 
63304, USA

Description of Request: To provide $5,300,000 for funding to complete 
the METI plan initiated by the Aeromechanics division 3 years ago. This 
funding will complete the development of a robust enterprise level data 
repository that supports the Aviation Engineering Directorate's (AED) 
airworthiness release mission to rapidly develop and deploy mission 
equipment tools. The AED will have the capability to data mine and 
analyze complex data to determine trend information to reduce high 
cycle times between flight tests and airworthiness releases.

Project: Bonded Cellular Aluminum Tail Rotor Blades

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Kemco Aerospace Manufacturing

Address of Requesting Entity: 3616 Scarlet Oak Blvd., St. Louis, MO 
63122

Description of Request: To provide $3,600,000 for bonded cellular 
aluminum helicopter tail rotor blades that are well suited for military 
helicopter structures which operate in demanding environmental 
conditions and must be battle damage tolerant. Unlike traditional 
aluminum honeycomb, the vented/drained cellular bonded structure 
redistributes load paths around damaged areas and has eliminated 
corrosion problems associated with traditional aluminum honeycomb 
structures; dramatically improving life cycle costs. This technology 
offers significant advantages compared with current structural 
technologies that were designed over 30 years ago, including 82% 
reduced parts count, elimination of skin delamination, significantly 
enhanced battle damage tolerance and field reparability benefits. The 
tongue and groove joint structures reduce the amount of touch labor 
required as well as tooling costs. This has the potential to reduce 
procurement costs by 20-30%.

Project: Adaptive-Defense HIPPIE (High-speed Internet Protocol Packet 
Inspection Engine) on a Chip.

Account: Department of Defense, Army, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: TechGuard Security, LLC

Address of Requesting Entity: 743 Spirit 40 Park Drive, Chesterfield, 
MO 63005

Description of Request: Provide $6,000,000 to enhance the Army's 
Cyber Security. This project puts the rapid and power-conserving High-
speed Internet Protocol Packet Inspection Engine's (HIPPIE) security 
capability on a silicon chip. This funding will allow for development 
of a Nano-power supply and a nano-memory capability. It will enhance 
the coalition warrior and the US Warfighter's communication security 
and access control through discreet deployment with secure remote-
controlled chip-level destruction in the event a device is compromised. 
This enhanced capability at the chip-level allows for deployment 
directly into the hands of the warfighter engaged in traditional and 
irregular warfare.

Project: JSOW-ER

Account: Department of Defense, Navy, RDT&E

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: LaBarge Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 9900 Clayton Road, St. Louis, MO 63124

Description of Request: Provide $6,500,000 for Joint Stand Off Weapon 
(JSOW) a GPS-guided air-to-ground weapon designed to attack a variety 
of targets in day, night and adverse weather conditions. The 70+ mile 
range of JSOW allows launch aircraft to stand off beyond the range of 
most Surface-to-Air missiles. There is a need for a small number of 
weapons with greater stand off. Currently the Navy fills this 
requirement with SLAM-ER, Harpoon and Tomahawk. The Navy completed its 
relatively small buy of fewer than 500 SLAM-ERs in 2004. A new variant 
of JSOW (JSOW-ER Block IV) would have a range and lethal capability 
equal to or greater than SLAM-ER and would satisfy the warfighter's 
need at less than half the cost of SLAM-ER. An existing engine from the 
Miniature Air-Launched Decoy program will be used to extend the range 
of JSOW-ER to more than four times of the current glide version.



