---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `a062660670f52c7371622e863e5acdcd`
`Mr. McCAIN — 18 June 2009`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today Senators Coburn, Grassley, and I are 
introducing the Department of Defense Financial Accountability Act of 
2009, which imposes hard legislative deadlines on the Department of 
Defense to finally fix its broken bookkeeping system. This legislation 
is not only necessary, it is long overdue.

The bill establishes a series of deadlines, beginning next year and 
running through 2017, for DoD and the Services to become audit ready. 
In particular, it compels the Services to account for military 
equipment, real property, inventory, operating materials and supplies, 
environmental liabilities, and fund balances with Treasury. Thereafter, 
DOD must undergo a full, independent audit of its financial statements. 
If DoD fails to meet any deadline set forth in the bill, it must timely 
document and explain its failure to Congress.

The Department of Defense is the most massive and complex of any 
organization, public or private. It is entrusted with more taxpayer 
dollars than any other federal department or agency. For fiscal year 
2009 alone, Congress appropriated over $513 billion for DoD's base 
budget. It added an additional $7.4 billion for DoD in this year's so-
called stimulus bill.

To support its business functions, DoD has thousands of separate 
business systems that it has layered upon one another for decades. They 
are archaic, overly complex, and error-prone. They are sometimes 
redundant and often lack standardization. It is no wonder that since 
1995, GAO has classified the Pentagon's financial management as high-
risk, which makes it vulnerable to fraud and waste. Indeed, according 
to GAO, DoD's accounting problems cost the American taxpayer $13 
billion in 2005--that's $35 million a day.

This has been a problem for decades. In 1975, the Army disclosed that 
it had spent $225 million over its budget because of a serious 
breakdown in its accounting and financial management reporting system. 
For fiscal year 1986, the Navy failed to disclose $58 million in real 
property, $1.7 billion in guaranteed loans, and data on operating 
leases on ships. According to the Government Accountability Office, 
between 1970 and 1980, the Air Force incurred numerous over obligations 
in amounts up to $210 million of its industrial funds. This would never 
be tolerated in the private sector.

This is not only about numbers and audits--this is also about the 
security of our troops and our nation. These broken systems affect 
operations and endanger our troops. Over the years, the GAO has 
reported that the Pentagon's poor financial management has caused pay 
problems for National Guard and reservists; impeded delivery of food 
and other essential supplies to U.S. troops; and had the Pentagon 
scrambling to identify and locate 250,000 defective chem-bio suits, 
some of which were being sold over the Internet.

Let me read into the record one account of how this impacted ongoing 
operations in Iraq. According to a February 5, 2006 Star Tribune news 
article: ''When Perry Jeffries was serving in Iraq, the computers 
showed that his 4th Infantry Division troops had access to drinking 
water, a place to shower and working wheels on their vehicles. As the 
first sergeant came to understand when scrounging for water, towing 
immobilized tanks and driving to other posts or to Kuwait to pick up 
needed parts, the Pentagon's bookkeeping doesn't always match reality. 
Jefferies saw the real-life results of what has been a visible 
'accounting' problem in Washington--the Pentagon's inability to keep 
accurate track of transactions and assets.''

Congress has already enacted several laws mandating financial 
management reform and the Office of Management and Budget has issued 
circulars on internal controls over financial reporting and financial 
management systems. Notably, none contain hard deadlines for an audit.

Meanwhile, DoD has repeatedly promised Congress that it would fix the 
problem. In 1999 and 2000, then-DoD Comptroller William Lynn testified 
before Congress that financial management reform was his highest 
priority. In fact, Mr. Lynn's successor, Dov Zakheim, set a deadline to 
have the Department of Defense audit ready by 2007. Under DoD's latest 
Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness Plan, that deadline is now 
2017.

I want to recognize that the Department has tried, with varying 
degrees of effort, to improve financial management, but DoD auditors 
and GAO continue to report significant weaknesses.



I appreciate that our military is engaged in ongoing operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. That is why Senators Coburn, Grassley and I have 
sought to be reasonable and realistic with the deadlines. They are the 
same deadlines in DoD's current Financial Improvement and Audit 
Readiness Plan.

It has been 19 years since the CFO Act was passed requiring DoD and 
other departments to have an audit. It will be 2019--nearly 30 years 
after the passage of the CFO Act--before the Department of Defense is 
able to get an audit opinion, if we hold them to their current 
timeline. If we do not, this may never happen.

The ultimate outcome of this legislation will be the implementation 
of effective financial management processes, efficient business systems 
and strong internal controls that are essential to producing timely, 
reliable and useful financial information. Quality information will 
allow DoD to make informed business decisions and ensure accountability 
on an ongoing basis.

Every dollar we save through improved financial management is another 
dollar for our troops--for body armor, for medical supplies, for 
veterans care. Improved financial systems will ensure that troops in 
the future do not find themselves in the same straits as the 4th 
Infantry Division, searching for supplies that a computer says they 
already have.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.