---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `a06389042079ebcca1c312d7ef299b1d`
`Mr. LEAHY â€” 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I strongly support the Feingold amendment, 
of which I am a cosponsor. This is the strongest amendment for changing 
course in Iraq among the proposals that we will consider this week. It 
is the only proposal that addresses the President's failed Iraq policy 
head on, and that would begin the much needed redeployment of our 
forces within 90 days.

The invasion of Iraq, and the catastrophe it has caused for the Iraqi 
people, for Iraq's neighbors, and for the United States, must end. It 
has been a failure--a failure in terms of our strategic interests, a 
failure in making us safer, a failure in terms of the President's naive 
goal of imposing a new Iraqi Government by force.

Our troops have stepped up time and time again, many of them 
sacrificing their lives, and many more suffering severe injuries. Their 
performance has been superb. Despite what the President and some who 
defend his policies say, our troops are not the issue. The issues are 
the glaring shortfalls, and the appalling incompetence, of the 
President's strategy.

The ''surge'' has not brought the Iraqi factions any closer to 
political reconciliation, which after all is the ultimate goal of the 
surge strategy. In fact, the divisions among the Iraqi people--already 
deep because of the brutal manipulations of the Saddam Hussein regime--
seem to be worsening. The White House seems to have no idea how to call 
things off and get our troops out from the middle of Iraq's civil war.

The cold hard truth is that the President has presented the American 
people with no real option, just more of the same. If the President is 
going to ignore our true national interests by prolonging this 
conflict, if the Commander-in-Chief of our Armed Forces is not going to 
take responsibility, then Congress, as representatives of the people, 
must be the catalyst to chart a new course.

The Iraqi Government is only getting more dependent on a continued 
American presence. It is the consensus view of our intelligence 
community, as reflected in the latest National Intelligence Assessment, 
that there is no prospect that in the next year the Iraqis will come 
together and reach a political settlement.

Even the new White House report, buttressed in part by the 
nonpartisan and professional General Accountability Office, shows that 
Iraq is getting a failing grade in its ability to meet key military and 
political metrics on its path toward reconciliation and stability.

The administration cites the positive developments in Anbar Province 
as justification for continuing this perpetual deployment of American 
forces. There has been progress there, much of it pre-dating the so-
called ''surge.'' Hundreds of members of the Vermont National Guard 
know how bad the situation was in Anbar less than a year and a half


ago, when these soldiers helped make up Task Force Saber in Ramadi. 
They were in the worst place in Iraq at the worst time. Since then the 
situation has clearly improved, and our troops and their commanders 
deserve credit and our thanks for that tough and dangerous work.

But the new-found calm is based on a set of agreements between Sunni 
tribes and American forces, not with the Iraqi Government. The Iraqi 
Government sees newly organized and perhaps newly armed groups of 
Sunnis as a threat to its power, and it is doubtful that will change 
any time soon.

In the meantime, the situation elsewhere continues to implode.

Passage of the Feingold amendment would force the Iraqis--and 
neighboring nations with a stake in Iraq's future--to recognize that 
the open-ended deployment of U.S. forces is ending. The drawdown of our 
forces, coupled with a strong U.S.-led diplomatic initiative, might 
bring about the political reconciliation that no amount of additional 
military force can bring about.

It might also cause Iraq's warring ethnic factions to go their own 
way, splitting the country into separate states. But that is where they 
are currently headed anyway. The administration's policies and 
incompetence have brought us to the point where there are no good 
options. But either of these scenarios is better than the future 
offered by the President. His war is costing us horrific casualties and 
enormous sums that could be better spent repairing our frayed 
international reputation and strengthening our security at home.

I urge my colleagues to take the only responsible step and pass this 
amendment that will finally bring our troops home.