---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE 345TH TACTICAL PSYCHOLOGICAL OPERATING COMPANY
## `a064b8a4b468704ed0c11d3a2ab5f01c`
`Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas — 1 August 2008`

---


Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker, as the 345th Tactical 
Psychological Operations Company (Airborne) prepares to deploy to 
Afghanistan, I ask the Congress to join me in commending the 
distinguished military company. To the brave men and women off to serve 
on the front lines, thank you. God bless you and I salute you.

245th PSYOP Co. was constituted into the regular Army on December 20, 
1965. The unit deployed to Vietnam in February, 1966. The 245th was 
assigned to the 6th BN, 7th PSYOP Group. 245th elements supported the 1 
CAV DIV, 101st ABN DIV, and was awarded a Meritorious Unit Citation and 
Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with Palm Device.

Deactivated in January 1968. The 245th was reconstituted on October 
30, 1975 in the Army Reserve under the 90th ARCOM, 5th U.S. Army.

In 1980, the 245th supported the Cuban Refugee Resettlement Project 
at Ft. McCoy, WI. The 245th was placed under USACAPOC and U.S. Army 
Special Operations Command in 1990. December 27, 1990, 18 soldiers 
mobilized to support Operation Desert Shield.

Tactical PSYOP Teams conducted combat operations with elements of the 
1st, 2nd Marine Divisions and the 5th Special Forces Group during 
Operation Desert Storm. 245th teams distinguished themselves at the 
Battle of Khafji, the liberation of Kuwait City, and with deception and 
surrender appeals in the Kuwaiti desert. Members earned Marine Combat 
Action Ribbons, Navy Meritorious Unit Commendations, and four Bronze 
Stars. The 245th also earned the Army Meritorious Unit Commendation.

September 16, 1994, a Tactical Detachment deployed to Haiti in 
support of Operation Uphold Democracy. Two soldiers supported a team of 
the 3rd Special Forces Group and the rest were with the 10th Mountain 
DIV. TPTs conducted civilian non-intereference, civil information 
campaigns, and QRF operations.

In 1996, the 245th was redesignated the 345th Tactical PSYOP Co. 
(Airborne), 16th BN, 2nd PSYOP GRP. The unit conducted numerous 
training exercises at JRTC, NTC, and CMTC in Germany.

In 1997, the 345th was given the warning order to deploy to the 
Balkans for Operation Joint Guard. In 1998, the unit operated in war-
torn Bosnia. The unit was primarily in the Multi-National Division 
North supporting the 3/2 Armored Cavalry Regiment. Other soldiers were 
in Sarajevo and Banja Luka. Teams conducted presence patrols in the 
Zone of Separation between the Serbs, Muslims, and Croats, civilian 
non-interference, civil information campaign, mine awareness, and 
passive intelligence gathering.

In 2000, a Tactical Detachment deployed to Kosovo to conduct 
missions, in support of Operation Joint Guardian. KFOR Teams ran 
similar missions as in Bosnia, with their 310th PSYOP Co. counterparts 
and the 82nd ABN DIV.

In the late 1990s through the early 2000s, the OPTEMPO of the unit 
steadily increased with missions to Germany, Jordan, Oman, and Egypt. 
However, on September 11, 2001, the 345th prepared to defend freedom 
with the onset of the Global War on Terror.

In 2002, three Tactical Detachments and a Headquarters/PDD deployed 
with the 3rd Special Forces Group's 1st BN to Afghanistan for Operation 
Enduring Freedom. 345th Teams were spread throughout the country to 
work with 3rd, 19th, 20th, and 7th SF GRP ODAs, other government 
agencies, Afghan militias, and conventional soldiers to hunt hostile 
Taliban and Al Qaeda terrorists, conduct civilian non-interference, 
tactical deception, surrender appeals, special recon, mine awareness, 
sensitive site exploitation, and direct action in support of 
unconventional warfare. 345th soldiers were recognized with numerous 
awards. The unit has had soldiers continuously deployed to OEF since, 
where they continue to set the standard for special operations in 
austere environments.

With less than a year home, the 345th was given a warning order to 
prepare to deploy in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. From February 
to October 2004, the 345th was assigned responsibility for tactical 
PSYOP in Baghdad, Iraq supporting elements of the 1st Armored Division, 
1st Cavalry Division, 10th Mountain Division, and numerous other 
special operations, foreign, and host nation forces. Teams conducted 
the full spectrum of military operations in urban terrain. From direct 
action raids, cordon and searches, and sonic deception to humanitarian 
assistance, 345th teams were involved in direct combat operations 
against anti-coalition forces, foreign terrorists, Al Sadr's Mahdi Army 
militia, former Baathists, and other hostile forces. Six Purple Hearts 
were awarded and a multitude of other awards to individual soldiers and 
the unit. The 345th remains actively engaged in this theater, as well.

In 2006, reserve component PSYOP units were reassigned to the U.S. 
Army Reserve Command, though continue to train through the U.S. Army's 
JFK Special Warfare Center and School.

345th Soldiers have sent soldiers on every rotation in support of the 
Global War on Terror since 9-11. 345th soldiers have also been called 
to serve in small teams or as individuals in Romania, Korea, Japan, 
Ecuador, Germany, Italy, and Egypt with no sign of letting up. 345th 
soldiers continue to attend professional schools, training rotations, 
and prepare for future combat deployments.
