---
---

# A TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL CRAIG GREENE
## `a0677b30e0d762cdddbad64f9aeb1960`
`Mr. McHUGH — 23 June 2008`

---


Mr. McHUGH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to an 
exceptional officer in the United States Army, Lieutenant Colonel Craig 
Greene, upon his retirement after 20 years of distinguished service. 
Lieutenant Colonel Greene will retire on September 1, 2008 after having 
last served as Deputy Chief, Army Senate Liaison Division, Office of 
the Chief of Legislative Liaison.

I had the privilege to work with Lieutenant Colonel Greene during my 
tenure as the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee's Military 
Personnel Subcommittee. At that time, he served as the Legislative 
Liaison Officer for the Army, responsible for directing the Army's 
Personnel Policy and the Operations and Readiness Portfolios. 
Lieutenant Colonel Greene provided Members and staff with forthright 
assessments important to ensuring a full understanding of the 
challenges facing America's Army. His candor, integrity, and insights 
were always valued. Recognizing Lieutenant Colonel Greene's proven 
skills as a liaison officer and leader, the Army selected him to serve 
as Deputy Chief of the Senate Liaison Division where he continued his 
important work.

During his 5 years of service as an Army Congressional Liaison, 
Lieutenant Colonel Greene flawlessly escorted over 50 Congressional 
delegations worldwide, 12 of which were delegations to Iraq and 
Afghanistan, in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation 
Enduring Freedom, respectively. Members of Congress knew they could 
count on Lieutenant Colonel Greene for his sage counsel, professional 
advice and unwavering integrity.

Lieutenant Colonel Greene's Senate assignment was the capstone to an 
outstanding career of service to our Nation. Upon graduating from the 
University of Massachusetts, Lieutenant Colonel Greene served as an 
Infantry Officer in command and staff positions in a number of infantry 
units. Prior to Lieutenant Colonel Greene's assignment to the Office of 
Chief of Legislative Liaison, he was assigned to the 25th Infantry 
Division (Light), Schofield Barracks Hawaii from 2001 to 2003. A 
soldier's soldier, his awards include the Defense Meritorious Medal, 
four Meritorious Service Medals, five Army Accommodation Medals, two 
Army Achievement Medals, the Expert Infantry


Badge, the Ranger Tab, and Parachutist and Air Assault Badge 
respectively.

Not only is Lieutenant Colonel Greene an exemplary soldier, he is 
both husband and father. He is married to the former Michelle Snow of 
Belchertown, MA, also a Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army. 
They have two children, Jackson--14 and Austen--10. In addition to his 
many responsibilities, Lieutenant Colonel Greene finds time to 
volunteer in his community, serving as a coach and as a participant in 
career days at his children's schools.

The demands of military life are such that military families also 
sacrifice and serve the Nation along with their soldier. Lieutenant 
Colonel Greene's dedication to duty upholds the highest traditions of 
military service. He has repeatedly stood for the defense of our Nation 
and her citizens and their freedom. Devoted to the defense of liberty, 
he epitomizes what it means to be a soldier and a patriot.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of Congress and the United States of 
America, I thank Lieutenant Colonel Craig Greene, his wife, Lieutenant 
Colonel Michelle Greene and their sons, Jackson and Austen, for the 
commitment, sacrifices, and contributions that they have made 
throughout his honorable military career. Congratulations on completing 
an exceptional and successful career.
