# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3288, CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a06e1aa150ccb0a80695357e1a7ffda3`
`Mr. LEWIS of California — 10 December 2009`

---


Mr. LEWIS of California. I appreciate very much my colleague's 
yielding.

As I open my remarks, I know I want to join my chairman to express 
our appreciation for the fine work of our staff. They worked long hours 
and should be very much appreciated by all of us. So as we break for 
the Christmas recess, I hope you all take some time to really enjoy 
yourselves. You deserve it.

Once again, interestingly enough, Mr. Speaker, we find ourselves 
approaching the holiday season with our appropriations work largely 
unfinished. Here we are 2 weeks before Christmas and 10 weeks after the 
end of the fiscal year demonstrating to the world that Congress remains 
incapable of getting its work done.

It's ironic that some in the House are quick to find fault in the 
lack of efficiency of governments such as Iraq and Afghanistan. Perhaps 
if we did a better job of meeting our own milestones, like finishing 
our spending bills by October 1 of each year, we would be in a better 
position to suggest milestones for others.

It's laughable to this Member that some in the Democrat majority are 
pointing fingers at the Republican minority for this failure of 
leadership. After all, it's the Democrat majority that controls both 
the House and the Senate and the White House. As much as it may pain my 
friends on the other side of the aisle, they can no longer blame George 
Bush or the Republican Party for their own failure to lead.

Still left unfinished is the Defense Appropriations bill, which many 
believe will be used by the majority leadership to pass unpopular 
legislation that has little chance of passing on its own. On this point 
let me be very clear: The House Republicans will not support passage of 
a Defense Appropriations measure if it is used as a vehicle to raise 
the debt limit and if it contains other controversial legislative 
items.

The reckless record of spending by the Congress has caused our 
national debt to more than triple over the last year. In this $450 
billion package that's before us today, spending on domestic programs 
has increased by an astonishing 14 percent, while Military Construction 
and Veterans funding, for example, is held to only 5 percent.

Sadly, the misplaced priorities of this Congress have resulted in too 
much spending, fewer jobs, and bigger government that the public 
doesn't want and certainly cannot afford. Some in Washington refer to 
this unrestrained spending as a ''change we can believe in.'' Most 
people in our country call it ''business as usual.''

There is no question that the era of Big Government has returned to 
Washington. One need only look at the so-called Recovery Act or double-
digit unemployment, a job-killing cap-and-trade bill, and an unpopular 
government takeover of health care as evidence. It's no wonder that the 
public confidence in the Congress is at an all-time low.

Mr. Speaker, I cannot and will not support this package of spending 
bills because it simply spends too much money and makes a mockery of 
our legislative process.