# CREATING LONG-TERM ENERGY ALTERNATIVES FOR THE NATION ACT OF 2007
## `a08099d686250fc7bfbdea7060e374bd`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 21 June 2007`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, this is a very interesting series of 
statements we have heard in the last 15 minutes, half hour, statements 
basically trying to lead Americans to believe that this Finance 
Committee tax package, as well as the provisions of the tax package to 
pay for incentives so we can wean ourselves away from OPEC, away from 
all these countries, is going to result somehow in some cataclysmic 
event; namely, gasoline prices are going to go up, according to 
statements we have heard. We have also heard that we are going to 
reduce domestic exploration and development of American oil companies; 
we are putting ourselves in the hands of foreign countries. The fact 
is, the exact opposite is the case. These statements are amazing. It is 
good political rhetoric, but it has nothing to do with the facts.

First, it is more important that people understand that the amendment 
offered by the Senator from Arizona, Mr. Kyl, basically delegates to 
the Secretary of Energy whether $30 billion worth of tax provisions 
will be enacted. I am astounded that anybody in the Senate wants to 
delegate that decision to the Secretary of Energy instead of the U.S. 
Congress deciding whether the tax needs to be imposed.

The Kyl amendment basically says that unless the Energy Secretary can 
determine that the effect of this will not increase the price of 
gasoline at the pump, that he, the Energy Secretary, or she, the Energy 
Secretary--whoever the Energy Secretary is--will automatically be 
forced to rescind the pay-fors in this bill. That is astounding. It is 
basically delegating to the Energy Secretary a policy which should be 
made by the Congress, and that is a huge dereliction of responsibility. 
I am appalled that anybody would dare suggest it. But that is a fact.

Second, if we look at the whole bill, the Finance Committee package 
in the Energy bill and also the Kyl amendment, several things are 
striking. The first is the major underlying Finance Committee bill is 
designed to accomplish the objective that the Senator from Idaho is 
complaining about. The Senator from Idaho is complaining that this 
amendment transfers power to Venezuela or to Saudi Arabia, other 
countries. The whole point of this bill is the exact opposite. It is to 
wean ourselves away from OPEC, wean ourselves away from those 
countries, so that we Americans are in a better position to determine 
our own destiny, in a better position to get more energy production 
here in America.

How do we do that? The committee bill does that through all kinds of 
incentives. It reduces taxes in lots of different ways for alternative 
energy, renewable energy, cellulosic development, encouraging more 
American clean coal technology so we can tap into our vast reserves of 
coal. It has lots of ways we could help America be more self-sufficient 
and wean ourselves away from these very high gasoline prices we are 
forced to pay partly because OPEC is forcing us to pay those prices; 
the truth is, partly because the major oil companies are charging 
whatever the market will bear. That is why they are charging such high 
prices to the American consumer. What evidence do I have of that? It is 
very simple and direct.

I was stunned because of the candor of the CEO of ExxonMobil when he 
made this statement. This was last year at a Judiciary Committee 
hearing. I was not there; I was watching on C-SPAN. At that hearing, 
the exchange was essentially between the Senator from Wisconsin, Mr. 
Kohl, and the CEO of Exxon. I think Senator Kohl asked the question. 
This was an open hearing.

He said: Sir, why are gasoline prices so high now?

The answer: Well, Exxon has to pay more because OPEC is charging us 
more. So we to have pay more, and we transfer those price increases 
down to the American consumer.

The Senator from Wisconsin asked the head of ExxonMobil: Explain this 
to me, please. At the same time, your profits have exploded. They have 
gone up about $35 billion this year. Your profits have expanded.

Senator Kohl said: I am a businessman. Ordinarily, if my costs go up, 
my profits go down. Please explain to me why you would say your costs 
are going up because OPEC is charging you more and yet your profits are 
going way up. Why?

His answer was very illustrative of the point here. He said, in all 
candor: Senator, my responsibility is not to the American consumer; my 
responsibility is to my stockholders. I will charge whatever the market 
will bear because I have a duty to protect my stockholders and get 
whatever I can for my stockholders. I am going to charge whatever I 
can.



That is why profits are so high, because Americans can't put milk in 
their car or their truck. They can't put in water. They have to put in 
diesel fuel or gasoline. Americans are stuck. The majors are passing on 
through their distribution system these very high gasoline prices 
because they can get away with it and because it fattens profits and 
because they are beholden to stockholders, not the American consumers.

What about these provisions which the Senator from Arizona wants to 
strike. There are three of them. It is very simple, and there is a 
reason why they are there and why they will not have the disastrous 
effect the Senator from Arizona claims.

The first one is to rescind a tax break we gave to the five major oil 
companies back in 2004. It is called section 199.

We gave that tax break, frankly, to all American domestic 
manufacturers, including the oil companies. It was as a response to a 
WTO ruling a year or two earlier which said our American tax laws--
which gave incentives for American products to be exported--were WTO 
illegal. So we came up with a backup plan. The backup plan was 
basically section 199 in the code, enacted in the 2004 Jobs Act, which 
says, OK, we will give an extra little break to domestic production in 
the United States. If they export the products, fine; if they do not, 
that is fine. We will still give them a break. That is what that is.

What has happened to domestic oil production in the United States 
since that was enacted in 2004? Well, one would think it probably 
increased a little bit because the major oil companies get a little tax 
break. The fact is, the exact opposite has happened.

Let me quote a couple statistics. In 2004, when that provision was 
put in effect, domestic production was about 170 million barrels a 
month. It was 170 million barrels a month in 2004. Well, you would 
think it would go up because of that tax break for domestic production. 
Oh, no, that is not what happened. It actually went down. It is down to 
about 160 million barrels.

Look at the price of oil. Back in 2004, the price of oil was $40 a 
barrel. Now it is about $65 a barrel. Well, gee, you would think--that 
is more money in the oil companies' coffers--they would want to use 
that for more exploration, more development. No. Again, there is less 
domestic production, even with the price of oil so high over that 
period of time and even though they have had a tax break. I might add, 
too, the price of gasoline at the pump back then was about $2 a gallon. 
Today, it is above $3 a gallon. So that did not help.

So, gee, we thought: We will take that away. It did not help, so we 
will take it away. So, therefore, it seems to me it is not going to 
cause an increase in the price of gasoline at the pump.

I might say, the statistics cited by the Senator from Arizona are 
based on the Heritage Foundation. I am not going to get into the 
question of who financed that study--I have an idea who financed that 
study; and, therefore, it drove the results they would like to get--but 
that is the same organization that said Iraqi oil is going to pay for 
Iraq reconstruction too. They were dead wrong then, and they are dead 
wrong now. They are an organization which, frankly, I think is not the 
most objective, independent organization in the world. That is the 
first one. That is why we made that first change.

The second provision in the Finance Committee bill the Senator's 
amendment wants to strike is a loophole closer. We are trying to close 
a loophole. The Joint Committee on Taxation said--that is a bipartisan 
organization, the Joint Committee on Taxation, which serves both the 
House and the Senate, Republicans and Democrats--their independent 
study shows there is a big loophole the major oil companies take with 
respect to foreign tax breaks in this area; that is, ordinarily a 
company gets to reduce its income taxes in the amount of the foreign 
taxes that company pays to a foreign country.

Now, the law is different between exploration costs and distribution 
downstream costs. The companies game the system. They offset one 
against the other. Joint Tax saw this big loophole. Let's close it. 
That is the second provision. Also, I do not see how anybody could 
argue against that. It is a big loophole closer. It makes the Tax Code 
more fair.

Then we get to the third provision. This is the so-called 
confiscatory excise tax on the oil produced in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Let's be honest. First of all, the President of the United States, 
himself, believes there is insufficient revenue paid to Uncle Sam on 
these OCS leases. The best evidence: The President of the United 
States, himself, has enacted a 6/2/3/-percent royalty on all new leases 
in the gulf. He thinks they are not paying enough. He has increased the 
current royalty--it was 12 percent. The bill has a 13-percent severance 
tax. The President, himself, has enacted a whole new higher royalty 
provision on new leases in the gulf. He thinks they are undertaxed. 
Right now it is about a 12-percent royalty. This provision in our 
Finance Committee bill says a 13-percent severance tax.

Clearly, Congress has the power to enact a tax. The royalties paid by 
any company are credited against the 13 percent, and so it is a net 
lower than what the President thinks the amount should be in revenue 
paid by the oil and gas companies in the gulf.

I might also say the General Accounting Office has done a study of 
how much America taxes oil and gas compared with how other countries 
tax oil and gas. What is the result of the GAO study? The result of the 
GAO study is we Americans basically tax oil and gas less than other 
jurisdictions around the world--or other States. The State of Alaska is 
taxing more. Other countries tax more now. We Americans are pretty easy 
and soft compared to other countries on how much we tax oil and gas 
revenues.


So this argument that somehow, oh, my gosh, America is going to tax 
oil and gas companies with these provisions--that it is confiscatory; 
they are going to go overseas--it is just nonsense. It is just total 
nonsense because, already, oil and gas revenue in the United States is 
not taxed as much as it is in other jurisdictions. It seems to me, 
therefore, it is not unfair to enact this provision.

The main point is if the Kyl amendment passes, then the Finance 
Committee tax title of this bill is dead because we are not paying for 
it, effectively. That is because the Energy Secretary, under the Kyl 
amendment, probably would rule that maybe prices might go up at the 
pump, given the politics of it all, and that means we do not have a 
bill anymore.

Therefore, I urge Senators to say: OK, let's do what is right. Let's 
start to wean ourselves from OPEC. Let's start to give some incentives 
to American domestic producers of alternative fuels, renewable fuels, 
and have more conservation measures to help America again take control 
of our own destiny.

This is not a perfect bill. Nothing is perfect. But it is a good 
bill. It is a very good bill. It helps put America back on track, helps 
America turn the corner toward more energy independence, and enhances 
our national security so we are less reliant upon OPEC, less reliant 
upon those countries to which some Senators say this bill gives a 
break. It does not. This bill does the exact opposite. It helps America 
become America again.

Mr. President, I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Iowa.