---
---

# None
## `a0857462ce39e039f91ac6220d26dbac`
`Ms. McCOLLUM — 15 December 2010`

---


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, every year in the world's poorest 
countries, millions of girls are forced into marriage. Girls as young 
as age 8, but often 13, 14, and 15 years old, are sold by impoverished 
parents to settle debts or they are given away to become the wives of 
men who are years or even decades older. For a young girl, a child, to 
be forced into marriage to an adult man can only be described as a life 
of slavery, child molestation, and servitude. This is not marriage. It 
is a violation of the most basic human rights of a child.

On the floor today is S. 987, the International Protecting Girls by 
Preventing Child Marriage Act, a bill that was passed unanimously in 
the United States Senate. Let me repeat. This bill passed unanimously. 
Every Republican and every Democrat in the Senate supported it.

I want to commend Senators Richard Durbin and Olympia Snowe, along 
with the other bipartisan cosponsors, for their tremendous efforts to 
protect vulnerable girls.

It is my honor to be the sponsor of the companion bill in the House, 
and I want to thank my Republican colleagues, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. 
LaTourette, Mr. Schock, and Mr. Latham, for their bipartisan support 
for ending child marriage.

According to UNICEF, child marriage is ''the most prevalent form of 
sexual abuse and exploitation of girls.'' One in every seven girls in 
the developing world is forced into marriage sometime before the age of 
15, millions of girls every year.

A 13-year-old that is forced into marriage will not go to school. She 
is most certainly guaranteed to be a victim of domestic violence. She 
is condemned to a lifetime of poverty, and she is more likely to die or 
be disabled in childbirth, and because she is a child, her infant is 
more likely to die.

HIV infection, maternal death, child death, gender-based violence, 
and extreme poverty are all deadly obstacles to development that 
destroys families, weakens communities, and destabilizes countries. 
Child marriage contributes to all of these destructive problems.

The photo I have with me was taken by a brilliant photojournalist, 
Stephanie Sinclair, who documented child marriage in Afghanistan. This 
11-year-old girl in this photo, Ghulam, is not seated with her 
grandfather. The man next to this child is her husband-to-be. This 
little girl's father gave her away to be married because he was too 
poor to care for her. Ghulam's value to her husband comes from her 
ability to work in the field, care for animals, and


because she's a virgin. In this country, a man treating an 11-year-old 
as his wife would be imprisoned as a sexual predator, a pedophile. In 
Afghanistan, an 11-year-old's abuser is her husband.



It does not matter where in this world an 11-year-old girl is; she 
should never be anyone's wife. Today we have an opportunity to put the 
lives of vulnerable girls ahead of what is all too common at times 
partisan political games that take place in this House. Today we can 
show our constituents in the world that the life of every girl has 
value and limitless potential if they can grow up free from 
exploitation.

It is my firm belief that girls, girls everywhere--in America, in 
Ethiopia, in Afghanistan--deserve the right to enter adulthood with the 
freedom to decide for themselves who their husband will be. A girl is 
not a commodity to be traded. She is a precious member of a community 
who needs to be valued and allowed to grow into adulthood.

This Congress and the American people spend billions of tax dollars 
on foreign assistance. The U.S. has a direct interest and an 
opportunity to ensure that girls in the developing world can grow up to 
be healthy, productive, contributing members of their communities and 
their countries.

Not only do girls deserve the right to choose their future husband; 
they deserve the opportunity to get an education, to contribute their 
skills and their talents to develop their countries.

This legislation supports and expands the successful models already 
in place for promoting girls' education, protecting the human rights of 
girls, and eliminating the practice of child marriage. This bill 
authorizes existing State Department funds to be used to implement a 
strategy to protect girls from being forced into marriage. This bill 
does not spend one additional dollar that is not already appropriated 
by Congress for health, education, democracy, or other development 
activities.

Earlier this week, I was honored to receive a letter from Archbishop 
Desmond Tutu of South Africa, urging the House to pass S. 987. The 
letter says: ''Child marriage is a harmful practice that treats young 
girls as property, stops their education, and robs them of their 
childhood and dignity.'' The archbishop goes on: ''We thank you for 
your attention and dedication to passing this bill before Congress 
adjourns. By doing so, you may help make the difference between lives 
of opportunity or enslavement for millions of young girls in the 
developing world.''

Mr. Speaker, child marriage is sanctioned sexual abuse that destroys 
girls' lives. The choice before this Congress is to do nothing as young 
girls and children continue to be enslaved, raped, and condemned to a 
life of abuse and poverty; or we can join the U.S. Senate and vote to 
pass this legislation and have the United States stand with millions of 
girls today and tomorrow who seek nothing more than the freedom, the 
opportunity, and the time to be allowed to be children and grow into 
adulthood without being forced into marriage.

I thank Chairman Berman for his support, and I urge all my colleagues 
to vote to protect millions of girls in this world from sexual abuse.





















The Elders Foundation,



















London, UK, December 13, 2010.


 Hon. Betty McCollum,


 Longworth House Office Building,


 Washington, DC.


 Hon. Ander Crenshaw,


 Cannon House Office Building,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Representatives McCollum and Crenshaw: As Chair of The 


 Elders, I am writing to thank you for your leadership and 


 support of the International Protecting Girls by Preventing 


 Child Marriage Act (S. 987 and H.R. 2103). The Senate passed 


 the bill by unanimous consent on 1 December 2010, and we now 


 encourage the House of Representatives to pass this important 


 measure.



 As an independent group of global leaders, brought together 


 by Nelson Mandela, we seek to address major causes of human 


 suffering and promote the shared interests of humanity. Part 


 of that effort involves speaking out about gender 


 discrimination and the oppression of girls and women, issues 


 we know many members of the House care about as well.



 Child marriage is a harmful practice that treats young 


 girls as property, stops their education and robs them of 


 their childhood and dignity. Child brides are at far greater 


 risk of dying in childbirth, while their children are also 


 less likely to survive infancy than the children of older 


 mothers. Often married to much older men, child brides are 


 more vulnerable than their unmarried peers to sexually 


 transmitted diseases including HIV and AIDS. There is 


 compelling evidence that child marriage is a significant 


 brake on the achievement of no less than six of the eight 


 Millennium Development Goals. UNICEF estimates that in 


 developing countries, 60 million girls now aged 20-24 were 


 married under the age of 18. That number is likely to 


 increase by 100 million over the next decade if these trends 


 continue.



 In our recent Washington Post op-ed, President Mary 


 Robinson and I told the story of Dhaki, a 13-year-old girl 


 from Ethiopia who was married to a man eleven years her 


 senior. Her husband regularly forced himself upon her. Her 


 cries were ignored by neighbours who shunned her for not 


 respecting the wishes of her husband. Thanks to a local 


 development program, Dhaki has since been freed from this 


 torture and is continuing her education.



 My fellow Elders and I strongly believe that the 


 International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage 


 Act can provide assistance to developing countries to help 


 them reduce child marriage rates and promote the empowerment 


 of girls and women worldwide. It will help innocent girls 


 like Dhaki who were trapped in abusive, forced marriages that 


 amount to a modern version of slavery. Please consider this 


 letter a public endorsement of this legislation by The 


 Elders.



 We thank you for your attention and dedication to passing 


 this bill before Congress adjourns. By doing so, you may help 


 make the difference between lives of opportunity or 


 enslavement for millions of young girls in the developing 


 world.





 God Bless You.





















Archbishop Desmond Tutu,






























Chair.
