---
---

# None
## `a08c087cde646f20e5e813ac1551f619`
`Mr. KIRK — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. KIRK. Madam Speaker, today I introduced House Resolution 267 with 
my fellow Iran Working Group co-Chair Congressman Rob Andrews (D-NJ) 
and Iran Working Group Vice-Chairs Dr. Charles Boustany (R-LA) and Ron 
Klein (D-FL). This resolution condemns the Islamic Republic of Iran for 
seizing 15 British sailors and marines in the Persian Gulf and calls 
for their immediate release. These sailors and marines, based on the 
HMS Cornwall, had finished a routine search of a civilian vessel in 
Iraqi waters at the time of the kidnapping. The Iranian regime now says 
it may charge the sailors and marines for illegally entering Iranian-
controlled waters.

The British soldiers were captured a day before the UN debated 
additional sanctions for Iran's continued efforts to enrich uranium. 
The sanctions were unanimously approved, and include a ban on arms 
sales from Iran as well as freezing assets of 28 people and 
organizations involved with the nation's nuclear programs.

Our resolution also asks the Security Council to explore new economic 
sanctions against Iran, including a restriction on gasoline imports. 
Despite its status as a top oil producing nation, Iran is highly 
dependent on foreign gasoline due to severe mismanagement of its 
domestic energy supply. An international restriction on foreign 
gasoline is the most effective economic lever in our diplomatic toolbox 
to prevent further Iranian hostility, deny Iran's ability to militarize 
the Persian Gulf and enforce Iran's nonproliferation commitments.

The Iranian regime defied international law by seizing sailors in 
waters outside of its jurisdiction. Our resolution sends a strong 
message of condemnation from the House of Representatives.

I want to thank Reps. Andrews, Boustany and Klein for leading with me 
on this resolution. I look forward to working with them and the more 
than fifty original cosponsors on this important initiative.
