---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a09d52bd4a4c21d672edce0599c54284`
`Mr. BOEHNER — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. BOEHNER. Madam Speaker, while I'm concerned about why this 
critical troop funding bill was delayed, I am pleased the House is 
finally focused on meeting the most pressing needs of our troops and 
our Nation. I told the president three months ago that Republicans 
would work with him to pass a clean troop funding bill through 
Congress.

Unfortunately, this funding was delayed for months while Democrats 
sought to add billions in unnecessary, unrelated spending to the bill. 
This is unacceptable, especially when we're borrowing 41 cents of every 
dollar we spend from our kids and grandkids.

As we vote today, we should take a moment to reflect on the 
sacrifices our troops and their families have made, and continue to 
make, in Iraq and Afghanistan. For nine years, we have asked our troops 
to leave their families and risk their lives to advance freedom abroad 
and protect our security at home. They have met every challenge 
presented to them, and continue pushing themselves every day to carry 
out a long, difficult, and dangerous mission.

As our troops continue their fight, it is imperative that Congress 
provide the resources they need, and remain committed to supporting 
them in the mission we have sent them on.

Denying terrorists a safe haven in Afghanistan is critical to the 
safety and security of our country. Going forward, I hope we will focus 
our attention on supporting our troops in a timely manner and promoting 
our long-term national security at home and abroad.