---
---

# HONORING HARRY BELAFONTE FOR A LIFETIME OF HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISM
## `a0a18d308ac1013605832710f0a55cf1`
`Mr. RANGEL — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, today I rise to praise Harry Belafonte, 
legendary musician and world renowned entertainer, for a lifetime of 
activism for equality and human rights for people across the globe. His 
passion, sincerity, and empathy for those who are overlooked and 
underprivileged have inspired many to act and have brought about 
significant change in our society.

Harry Belafonte's courage to speak out against the war in Iraq, to 
support the victims of Hurricane Katrina, and to fight for an end of 
the AIDS epidemic is a mirror to his integrity and undying commitment 
to improving society Amy Goodman reflects on his endless service in her 
article ''Harry Belafonte, The Lion at 80'' published by Carib News. 
Harry Belafonte is a true humanitarian for his lifetime of endless work 
for all.










[From the Carib News, Apr. 3, 2007]











Harry Belafonte, The Lion at 80















(By Amy Goodman)




 Harry Belafonte just turned 80. The ''King of Calypso'' was 


 the first person to have a million-selling album and the 


 first African-American to win an Emmy, and is perhaps the 


 most recognizable entertainer in the world. On Saturday, 


 March 3, I attended his birthday party at a restaurant 


 adjoining the New York Public Library.



 The setting seemed very appropriate, as Belafonte himself 


 is a living library of not only the civil rights movement but 


 of liberation struggles around the world. In 1944, just 


 before shipping out as a U.S. Navy sailor in World War II, he 


 was banned from the Copacabana nightclub in New York. Ten 


 years later, he headlined there. He knew Rosa Parks, Paul 


 Robeson and Eleanor Roosevelt. He corresponded with the 


 imprisoned Nelson Mandela when the U.S. government considered 


 the South African leader a terrorist.



 Belafonte was a close confidant of the Rev. Martin Luther 


 King Jr. He spoke daily with King. The FBI was listening. 


 Taylor Branch, the award-winning author of a trilogy of books 


 on King, was at Harry's party. Belafonte describes how 


 Bunch's final book in the trilogy, ''At Canaan's Edge,'' 


 uncovered extensive FBI wiretaps of their conversations.



 For fighting for the right to vote and to end segregation, 


 Belafonte says: ''We were looked upon as people who were 


 insurgents, that we were doing things to betray our nation 


 and the tranquility of our citizens. That engaged the FBI. 


 Everything we talked about was tapped.'' The FBI even went to 


 his house when he was away and frightened his




 wife and children. He tells me: ''The essential difference 


 between then and now is that no previous regime tried to 


 subvert the Constitution. They may have done illegal acts. 


 They may have gone outside the law to do these, but they did 


 them clandestinely. No one stepped to the table as arrogantly 


 as George W. Bush and his friends have done and said, 'We 


 legally want to suspend the rights of citizens, the right to 


 surveil, the right to read your mail, the right to arrest you 


 without charge.''' His criticism is not limited to President 


 Bush (whom he called, while visiting President Hugo Chavez in 


 Venezuela, ''the greatest terrorist in the world'').



 President Bill Clinton crashed Belafonte's birthday party, 


 which was taking place as the Democratic presidential 


 contenders battled for the African-American vote. Sens. 


 Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama were in Selma, Ala., for the 


 42nd anniversary of the famous voting rights march from Selma 


 to Montgomery. [Bill Clinton went to Selma to join his wife 


 for the commemoration.]



 In his remarks, Clinton toasted Harry: ''I was inspired by 


 your politics more than you can ever know. Every time I ever 


 saw you after I became president, I thought that my 


 conscience was being graded, and I was getting less than an 


 A. And every president should feel that way about somebody as 


 good as you.''



 I asked Harry how he felt about Clinton showing up. ''I'm 


 very flattered, OK, but I'm mindful of all the things that 


 need to be done.'' In his succinct reply, a lifetime of 


 struggle remembered, a keen edged skepticism, ''He knows what 


 I think. He said I didn't give him an A.'' I then asked him 


 about both the Clintons and Obama going to Selma.



 ''We are hearing platitudes, not platforms. What do they 


 plan to do for people of color, Mexicans, for people who are 


 imprisoned, black youth? What are their plans for the 


 Katrinas of America?''



 In 1965, Belafonte was on the original Selma march with Dr. 


 King before they reached Montgomery. Jude's Catholic Church 


 offered its grounds to the thousands of marchers. Belafonte 


 called in artists from around the country. Tony Bennett came, 


 as did Pete Seeger (both were at Harris birthday party), 


 Sammy Davis Jr., Mike Nichols, the conductor Leonard 


 Bernstein, Odetta and Joan Baez. In the rain, they built 


 their stage in the mud with donated caskets from local 


 mortuaries.



 The stakes were incredibly high. People were shot and 


 killed, people were beaten. Viola Liuzzo, a white Detroit 


 homemaker, was fatally shot by Klansmen while driving 


 marchers back to Selma. Weeks before, police shot a man named 


 Jimmie Lee Jackson, who later died. Despite all that, 


 Belafonte says that the stakes are higher today.



 Like the two stone lions that guard the New York City 


 Public Library, Harry Belafonte-fierce, fearless, and 


 focused--protects the soul of struggle. Even as he enters his 


 ninth decade, this lion does not sleep tonight.
