---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `a0a46d820f5c24c325de21d793f2c850`
`Mr. BLUMENAUER — 25 June 2009`

---


Mr. BLUMENAUER. I appreciate the gentleman's courtesy as I appreciate 
his leadership in an area that has been of concern for me for a long 
time, the disappointing and widespread environmental legacy of the 
Department of Defense. In every State, communities must deal with 
former training grounds contaminated with live bombs, leftover shells, 
leaking chemicals.

I have a map here. Every single State, every territory of the United 
States--and it is an ongoing problem. In June, in Florida, fishermen 
hauled aboard a live guided missile. On May 22 a farmer plowing his 
field overturned a live rocket.

We need to be more serious about it, and I appreciate the committee's 
help, first of all, in focusing with the Department of Defense, 
requiring the Secretary to report clearly the funding levels requested 
for the program. We have a new administration. We hope there will be a 
new commitment to work on this. With additional transparency, we are 
much more likely to know at least where we are. It's also time for 
military to be proactive and reduce the amount of munitions generated 
in the first place.

I'm pleased that they have agreed to another amendment offered by my 
friend Ms. Brown-Waite from Florida to require the Department of 
Defense to think strategically about ways to lessen the long-term 
health and environmental consequences, specifically, development of 
lifecycle accounting for munitions, review of live-fire practicing, and 
recommending ways to reduce the costs and incidents of unexploded 
ordnance. Smarter procurement and testing will reduce the long-term 
impacts of munition, saving money, resources, having safer American 
lands and more successful operations abroad.

Just a few volleys of a standard rocket system with a 5 percent 
failure rate generates thousands of unexploded ordnance for training 
lands here at home, and it complicates our missions abroad. Consider 
the plight of civilian populations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the 
millions who will rebuild their lives amidst the munitions wreckage 
left over the last 6 years of combat.

This is a problem at home in the United States. This is a problem 
abroad. It is time for us to face up to it. I appreciate the 
committee's leadership in helping zero in on it. I hope we can do a 
better job because it will save money while it saves lives at home and 
abroad.

I enter into the Record a list of Munitions and Unexploded Ordnance, 
UXO, incidents and news for May and June 2009.




 June 11, 2009 in Pachtua, MS, 20 Small Unexploded WWII 


 White Phosphorous Bombs Found During Pipeline Work



 June 10, 2009. Long Hill, NJ, World War II vet finds 


 ''souvenir'' and alerts bomb squad



 June 9, 2009, Norwood, OH, Deactivated Explosives Found At 


 Park



 June 9, 2009. Arden Hills, MN, Cleanup Costs Too Much for 


 Potential Developer



 June 9, 2009. Arden Hills, MN, Cleanup Costs Too Much for 


 Potential Developer



 June 8, 2009. Madiera Beach, FL, Fishing Boat Hauls Up 


 Guided Missile



 June 8, 2009. Camp LeJeune, NC, U.S. Supreme Court Refuses 


 to Hear Case About Toxic Water at Camp Lejeune



 June 8, 2009. California, MD, Ordnance Uncovered at 


 Landfill



 June 4, 2009. Columbus, OH, Road Closed after Artillery 


 Shell Discovered



 June 1, 2009. Turtlecreek Township, OH, Discarded Hand 


 Grenade Found



 June 1, 2009. Nantahala National Forest, NC, Ordnance Found 


 Near Trail



 May 22, 2009. Woolmarket, MS, Explosion Rocks Woolmarket 


 Neighborhood
