---
---

# RECOGNIZING TAIWAN'S FOURTH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
## `a0a642a2cd7434a03cdb33edd21ff909`
`Mr. TANCREDO — 3 April 2008`

---


Mr. TANCREDO. Madam Speaker, on March 22, 2008, Taiwan held its 
fourth presidential election. Mr. Ma Ying-jeou, a Harvard-educated 
former Mayor of Taipei, won convincingly. Mr. Ma's victory was welcome 
news for friends of Taiwan, including the United States. Mr. Ma pledged 
that he would seek an immediate dialogue with the People's Republic of 
China on issues such as direct airline flights, an economic accord 
protecting investments, more tourist visits by mainlanders to Taiwan 
and a peace accord under which China would withdraw the thousands of 
missiles it aims at Taiwan. I hope Mr. Ma succeeds in doing business 
with Beijing. If the accords Mr. Ma seeks are reached, both countries 
will benefit and security in East Asia will be broadly enhanced.

In the meantime I am confident that Taiwan's relations with the 
United States will be further strengthened. Taiwan has been our friend 
and supportive of us throughout the years. Taiwan has supported the war 
against global terrorism spurred by 9/11. Taiwan has also given 
humanitarian assistance in Afghanistan and Iraq. We need to treasure 
Taiwan's friendship and loyalty to the United States by lifting some of 
the outdated travel restrictions on senior Taiwanese officials and 
actively promoting an international role for Taiwan, including an 
observer status for Taiwan at the World Health Assembly.

Madam Speaker, I join my colleagues in congratulating President-elect 
Ma Ying-jeou and we hope he will have a chance to visit the United 
States Congress before his inauguration on May 20.



