---
---

# BIDDING FAREWELL TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
## `a0b04fd8d3d6fdb152b33783a58e0664`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 10 December 2008`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam Speaker, when the 110th Congress finally 
adjourns sine die, I will come to the end of my time as a Member of the 
House of Representatives.

I look forward to service in the other body upon the convening of the 
111th Congress, but today I want to express my appreciation for all 
that it has meant to me to have the privilege of membership in this 
extraordinary body with you and with all the other Members--past and 
present--with whom I have the honor of serving.

We've all heard that it takes more than moving in to make a house a 
home.

But I have to say that in my case, I have very much felt at home here 
in the House since the 106th Congress first convened in 1999, because 
so many people went out of their way to welcome me and to help me learn 
what I needed to know.

Thanks to them, I was able to do a better job of trying to properly 
represent the people of Colorado's Second Congressional District and to 
contribute to the search for ways to advance their interests and those 
of our state and our country as a whole.



So, Madam Speaker, today, I want to say ''thank you'' to all the 
Members and to the many talented and dedicated staff of the House and 
its Committees who have helped me do a much better job than I could 
have done without their advice and assistance.

And, while I am hesitant to mention anyone in particular--for fear of 
accidental omissions--I cannot conclude without giving special thanks 
to some of those who have been my special mentors.

On the Natural Resources Committee--which used to have a different 
name--the gentleman from West Virginia, Mr. Rahall, has been an example 
of courteous and effective leadership both as Ranking Member and more 
recently as Chairman.

I greatly appreciate all his many courtesies to me and his assistance 
in connection with matters of importance to Colorado that I have 
brought before the Committee.

I also appreciate having had the opportunity to work with the 
gentleman from Alaska, Mr. Young, when he chaired the Committee and in 
his current role as Ranking Member.

Don Young and I do not always see eye to eye, but there have been 
many instances in which we were on the same side, and I am glad to have 
had the chance to join forces with him in connection with those 
matters--as also was the case with respect to his predecessor as 
Chairman, our former colleague from Utah, Mr. Hansen.

On the Committee on Science and Technology, the gentleman from 
Tennessee, Mr. Gordon, has been unfailingly generous and has provided 
outstanding leadership. It has been my good fortune to have served with 
him and with the other members, from both sides of the aisle, as the 
Committee has dealt with many matters of great importance to Colorado 
and the country.

I also appreciated having the chance to serve with his predecessor as 
Chairman, the gentleman from New York, Mr. Boehlert, who was always 
kind and accommodating to me during the time we served together.

Similarly, I made many good friends during my service on the 
Committees on Small Business and Agriculture and benefitted from the 
opportunity to learn about the matters within their jurisdictions.

Finally, I cannot fail to mention my deep appreciation for having had 
the opportunity to be a Member of the Committee on Armed Services. I 
was privileged to serve with an outstanding chairman, the gentleman 
from Missouri, Mr. Skelton as well as with his predecessor, the 
gentleman from California, Mr. Hunter.

My years on the Committee have been memorable ones, as we have 
wrestled with so many complex and difficult issues related to the 
ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and the other challenges that 
face our Armed Forces and our country in connection with the threat of 
international terrorism and other threats. Bonds among Members of the 
committee are strong, and I feel honored to have been part of such a 
talented, dedicated and hardworking group of Members and highly-
professional staff.

Madam Speaker, I could cite many others to whom I owe a debt of 
thanks--but the list would be longer than the time available, because 
they are literally too many to mention.

Therefore let me conclude by simply saying that although in the new 
year I will have a new job, some things will not change.

I am and will remain a ''man of the House,'' and while I will be 
spending more time on the other side of the Capitol, I look forward to 
continuing to work with you, Madam Speaker, and with the rest of our 
colleagues here.

So, tonight I choose not to say ''farewell''--because this is far 
from goodbye--or even ''so long,'' as the Western expression goes.

Instead, let me close with a wish to everyone for happy holidays and 
a promise that I will ''see you later,'' in the New Year.



