---
---

# CONFIRMATION OF JOHN NEGROPONTE
## `a0b44c165af19988f689f666f710d129`
`Mr. BYRD — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, few would argue that these are challenging 
times for U.S. foreign policy. Faced with threats from a growing 
radical Islamic ideology, tense situations in North Korea and Iran, an 
escalating civil war in Iraq, humanitarian crises of biblical 
proportions in Africa and elsewhere, and countless other challenges, it 
is clear that we need as perhaps never before the hand of experience 
guiding our foreign policy.

It is no secret that I have disagreed--deeply disagreed--with many of 
the foreign policy decisions made by this administration. I said in 
2002 that it was a mistake to invade Iraq, and my judgement has never 
wavered: the President was wrong to start this war, he was wrong to 
continue this war, and he is wrong to escalate this war.

However, we are in Iraq now. American men and women are caught in the 
cross-fire of sectarian warfare that has been brewing for centuries. 
And I believe that the way out is primarily political and diplomatic, 
not solely through the use of military force. The recommendations of 
the Iraq Study Group are just the latest reminder that we must engage 
diplomatically with other nations--not only with our friends and 
allies, but also with our competitors and even our enemies--to seek new 
solutions.

That is why the leadership at the State Department is so important, 
and why I am pleased that last night the Senate voted to confirm the 
nomination of Ambassador John Negroponte to become Deputy Secretary of 
State. I had an opportunity to meet with Ambassador Negroponte 
recently, and I am encouraged by his long track record of service to 
his country, as a foreign service officer and ambassador in many 
different regions of the world. In his most recent assignments, he has 
proven himself capable of performing in the most challenging of roles, 
as U.S. Ambassador to Iraq and as the Director of National 
Intelligence. Prior to that, he served as U.S. Ambassador to the United 
Nations, where he earned this high praise from another diplomat, former 
Secretary General Kofi Annan:




 He's an outstanding professional, a great diplomat and a 


 wonderful ambassador.


When I met with Ambassador Negroponte, I conveyed to him my strong 
belief that we must rely on diplomacy and peaceful negotiation to reach 
lasting stability in the Middle East. I also emphasized that pursuing 
some sort of Sunni vs. Shi'a alignment in the Middle East as the 
balance of power in the region shifts is not in the best interests of 
the United States or the world. I am encouraged that Ambassador 
Negroponte seems to agree with me, and I look forward to working with 
him and other administration officials as we seek a path toward peace.

Ambassador Negroponte has demonstrated the savvy and expertise of a 
world-class diplomat. Our Nation needs experienced professionals who 
can rise above the fray of partisan politics guiding our foreign 
policy, particularly in such turbulent times as these. I look forward 
to working with Ambassador Negroponte in his new role as Deputy 
Secretary of State.
