---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a0b634fa7388d82d0f78b6eaedba8655`
`Mr. BACA — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. BACA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent 
Resolution 63.

I thank the Armed Services Committee chairman, Mr. Skelton, for 
carrying this legislation in support of our military troops and 
opposing the President's plan to send at least 21,500 more troops to 
Iraq.

I speak today as a proud veteran who served in the United States 
armed service as a paratrooper in the 101st and 82nd Airborne Division.

As a veteran and as a Congressman, I voted against this war in year 
2002 because no one could convince me why we had to be there in the 
first place. I was tormented with this decision. I talked to many of my 
constituents. I called the bishop in my area. I couldn't see what 
invading Iraq had to do with securing the homeland. No one in the 
administration could convince me that there were weapons of mass 
destruction in Iraq. But we sent our troops there anyway, without 
proper training or proper equipment.

This administration was in such a hurry to invade Iraq that we sent 
our military in there with defective body armor and Hummers that 
couldn't withstand the roadside bombs. In fact, before Congress made 
any appropriations for an Iraq invasion, the President took $600 
million from our troops in Afghanistan and sent it to Iraq.

The administration has refused to listen to its own generals, to 
Congress or to the American people. They just do what they want.

After September 11, I was willing to do anything to make our country 
safe, like all of us. We came together in a bipartisan way. I believed 
in fighting terrorists in Afghanistan was the right thing to do, but 
the current situation in Iraq proves what we have been saying all 
along, that the Iraq war has not and will not make America safer. 
Instead, it is costing the American taxpayers $200 million every day. 
The money that we spent in Iraq could have sent 17 million high school 
students to college. Can you imagine, 17 million students going on to 
college right now that we could have provided assistance to, or paid 
for 6 million new school teachers, reduced the student ratio, funded 
the No Child Left Behind Act, or help with Katrina. But more money has 
been spent on this war, and yet it is costing us money for those that 
are losing their lives right now.

Over 3,000 men and women have given their lives for this war, and 
over 23,000 are coming home wounded or disabled. Mr. Speaker, over 
10,000 of these troops are so severely wounded that they will never be 
able to serve again. Let me tell you, and you have to look at them, 
never able to serve again.

Now the President wants to send 21,500 more troops to the most 
dangerous part of Iraq. Why? Why are we sending our troops to fight in 
another country's civil war? Mr. Speaker, this isn't a strategy for 
success. This is a desperation attempt by the administration who can't 
admit that they made a mistake. They made a mistake, and they need to 
admit it. And the sooner we come to this realization, the better off 
this country will be. As a veteran, I understand that sometimes war is 
necessary, but as a veteran, I also know that war should always be the 
last resort because war means someone's sons and daughters won't come 
home. That means separating parents from their children, leaving their 
homes, someone making a sacrifice.

In my home State of California alone, we have lost 325 men and women 
in Iraq. Back in my home district, we have lost 10 outstanding young 
men. It just breaks my heart. Mr. Speaker, you don't put the American 
families through this kind of pain unless you are sure, beyond any 
shadow of doubt, that there are no other options. The President had 
failed to convince me in 2002, and I am still not convinced to this 
day.

I say let's support this resolution. Let's bring back our men.
















 General Leave
