---
---

# FAA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `a0cea07b629ca62edbf28740cd666e4e`
`Mr. DURBIN — 29 April 2008`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, when the Senate considers the Federal 
Aviation Administration Authorization Act, I will offer a bipartisan 
amendment to strike section 808 of the substitute to this bill. The 
section I wish to strike would impose a significant competitive 
disadvantage on airlines that have done the most to protect their 
employees and provide for the secure retirement of those employees and 
current retirees. It would increase the pension obligations of these 
airlines above what is required of the airlines they compete with. It 
is fundamentally unfair. Such a move would undermine the ability of 
these airlines to maintain their commitments to their workers, 
particularly in today's struggling economy.

In 2006, with several airlines facing the prospect of bankruptcy, the 
Pension Protection Act adjusted how struggling airlines that had frozen 
their defined benefit pension plans could calculate their pension 
obligations. Those airlines were allowed to devote significantly less 
funding than their competitors toward payments to their pension plans. 
Understand, airlines facing bankruptcy that were on the cusp of losing 
defined benefit retirement plans were given better treatment under the 
Tax Code than those that didn't file bankruptcy and tried to keep their 
word to their employees under their defined benefit plans. Airlines 
that maintained their pension plans weren't given this benefit. As a 
result, American, Continental, Hawaiian, Alaskan, and US Airways were 
placed at a significant competitive disadvantage, only because they 
continued to offer their workers defined benefits for retirement. Those 
are the benefit plans, incidentally, that workers like the most. They 
are the ones that guarantee what you will receive when you retire, as 
opposed to a defined contribution plan, for example, that says a 
certain amount of money will be set aside, and maybe it will earn a lot 
before you retire, maybe it will not. The defined benefit plans--which, 
incidentally, Federal employees and Members of Congress have--are the 
best. These airlines that had similar plans for their employees and 
retirees and avoided bankruptcy were put at a disadvantage. The 
airlines facing bankruptcy, throwing away their pension plans, and 
changing them, were given a better break under the Tax Code than those 
that continued in business, avoiding bankruptcy and keeping their word 
to their employees and retirees.

In 2007, I joined with Senator Harry Reid, adding language to the 
Iraq supplemental that tried to address this unfairness and inequity. 
Under the 2006 law, airlines that had prohibited new workers from 
participating in their defined benefit plan were allowed to assume a 
rate of return of 8.85 percent on their pension investments. The 2007 
law allowed the other airlines, those that had maintained the previous 
defined benefit commitment, to assume an 8.25-percent return. I know 
these numbers probably in the course of the speech don't impress you, 
but they should. It makes a significant difference of how much money an 
airline has to put in the pension plan, and the Tax Code, the law of 
our land, requires it. Airlines that had frozen their plans were 
allowed to amortize their plan shortfalls over 17 years; in other 
words, those that were facing bankruptcy and walking away from many 
aspects of their pension plans were able to take a longer period of 
time to pay out what was necessary to bring their plans up to solvency. 
The 2007 law gave airlines with defined benefit plans only 10 years, 
not 17. Therefore, airlines that are offering their workers defined 
benefits retirement face a competitive disadvantage.

The 2007 law I mentioned earlier partially closed the gap. Section 
808 of this FAA reauthorization bill would tilt the playing field away 
from the airlines that already face this competitive disadvantage 
because they offer the very best pension benefits to their employees.

What it comes down to is this: Airlines are declaring bankruptcy in 
every direction. Some are reporting record losses. Last week, American 
Airlines reported a loss of $328 million in the first quarter, 
virtually all of it attributable to increases in jet fuel. A few days 
later, United Airlines, another


major airline based in my home State of Illinois, announced first 
quarter losses, if I am not mistaken, of nearly $500 million and the 
need to lay off some 1,000 employees. Now comes this FAA 
reauthorization bill, and it includes a provision that will create an 
economic burden and hardship on some of these airlines that are 
struggling to survive. Could this Senate pick a worse time to hammer 
away at these airlines, when they are struggling to deal with jet fuel 
costs that are going through the roof and an uncertain economy facing a 
recession? If there was ever a bad idea, this is it.