---
---

# None
## `a0d61ded8c2dc26e96295e54aa4c6f50`
`Mr. ALTMIRE — 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. ALTMIRE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Florida, and 
I thank the chairman for his leadership, as well as Ranking Member 
Hunter.

I wanted to talk specifically for a couple of minutes about two 
provisions that this bill includes that I introduced. One of them 
involves a bill, H.R. 1944, dealing with traumatic brain injury, which 
is the signature injury of the war in Afghanistan and Iraq.

What this legislation that we are voting on today says is that the 
Department of Veterans Affairs will treat traumatic brain injury and do 
screenings and treatments in a way that is much more put together than 
has been done in the past. It is going to create a national registry, 
it is going to create a long-term system for traumatic brain injury 
screening and treatment, and it is going to create a coordinated 
network throughout the Nation that is going to help our brave men and 
women that are affected by TBI.

Secondly, I also introduced an amendment during consideration of this 
bill dealing with family and medical leave. What this legislation does 
is allow family members of our brave men and women serving in the Guard 
and Reserve to use Family and Medical Leave Act time to see off, to see 
the deployment, or to see the members return when they come back, and 
to use that, importantly, to deal with economic issues and get the 
household economics in order.

This bill is going to dramatically impact people's lives, and I am 
proud to have played a very small part in it. But I do want to thank 
the chairman and the ranking member for their leadership.

Madam Speaker, I also thank the gentlewoman from Florida for allowing 
me the time to speak today.