---
---

# None
## `a0e090b3832de3501afac277bf11c08a`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I rise to talk about Iraq and Senator 
Feingold's legislation to start bringing our troops home from Iraq. But 
as I stand here on this floor, I listen to one of our colleagues speak 
of a group out West who may have said something disrespectful and 
offensive about our troops and that this group may have learned it here 
on this floor and I feel I must respond. That is an insult to all of us 
who are part of this body. It is outrageous to say this group learned 
that here. No one here disrespects our troops. No one here wants 
anything but the best for them. We ought not to start off that way, as 
we discuss the Feingold legislation.

I wish to begin my remarks with President Bush's now infamous 
declaration almost 5 years ago when he announced ''mission 
accomplished.'' We sadly remember that day, when the President landed 
on the aircraft carrier USS Lincoln like a conquering hero, standing 
before a huge banner, which we see here portrayed. We remember watching 
as President Bush declared that day to be the end. It turned out to be 
a stunningly casual statement, not unlike another remark the President 
made when he said, talking about the enemy, ''bring them on.'' I served 
in Europe during World War II, and I never heard a commander invite 
more of the enemy to come to fight.

When the President stood there that day, the insinuation was that it 
was the end of major combat operations, the end of America's 
casualties, the end of America's role as the major player in Iraq's 
future. But many of us remember fearing that it was not the end.

Today, as we look at the terrible costs to our troops, to their 
families, to our priorities here at home, to the war against the 
terrorists who attacked us, and to America's standing, we realize that 
day in 2003 was only a beginning. When the President stood on the deck 
of that carrier, America had lost 139 of our troops in Iraq. As we 
stand here today, we have lost almost 4,000. To be exact, 3,968 
Americans have died in Iraq; 102 of those troops had ties to my home 
State of New Jersey; 95 percent of the mothers, fathers, sons and 
daughters we have lost were killed in action after President Bush said 
''mission accomplished.''


That mission was not accomplished. President Bush's war has left 
children growing up without parents and parents to grow old with no 
children. His war has caused nearly 29,000 troops to leave the combat 
theater with their wounds. Nearly 700 of them lost limbs, and many more 
have left with wounds to their minds. Our troops are returning home 
from the Iraqi desert with traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic 
stress disorder, making it so difficult for them to return to their 
families, their jobs, and their lives.

Instead of spending $3 billion each week to wage war on education or 
childhood disease in America, the President is spending $3 billion a 
week to wage war in Iraq. Amazingly, I found someone who doesn't know 
that sad fact--the President's own Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, Mr. Nussle. I recently asked him how much we were spending 
each week in Iraq, in a budget hearing. Director Nussle said he didn't 
know. Almost everybody in America besides him knows very well--$3 
billion each and every week. It is unacceptable. It is an insult to the 
American people who are funding this war and an insult to our troops 
who are still fighting it.

The President will claim we are making military progress in Iraq and 
that the surge is working. But let's tell the American people the 
truth. America lost 901 mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers in 
the year 2007 alone; 2007 was the deadliest year for America since the 
start of the Iraq war.

More than 3,300 members of New Jersey's Army Reserves and National 
Guard are scheduled to deploy to Iraq this year. Just a couple of weeks 
ago, I went to Fort Dix, a major military base in New Jersey. I talked 
to people who already served there on extended tours, and they were 
weary. They were willing to do their duty. They respected their 
obligation. But their families were not happy. The people I saw, the 
spouses, the children were not happy about their wife or husband, or 
mother or father going away again. Some of them are going to get hurt, 
and some of them may never come home. As they do their duty with honor 
and bravery, they count on us to do ours.

Their deployment is a reminder that the President's surge is 
fundamentally flawed. His solution is built on military strength, when 
a political and diplomatic solution is what is needed in Iraq. Iraq, 
not America, needs to accomplish these goals, and we want them to do 
it. We want them to make it possible for us to start bringing our 
troops home as soon as possible. They have to do it. It is their 
responsibility. It is their country, and we want to end our presence 
there.

The surge is also a distraction from the war President Bush started 
in response to 9/11 but never finished. That was the war on terror.

When the President spoke to our country after September 11, he said:




 I will never forget this wound to our country or those who 


 inflicted it.


But it appears that he has forgotten. He has forgotten about Osama 
bin


Laden, the man who inflicted those terrible wounds on the victims, 
their families, and this country. He has forgotten that the war against 
al-Qaida and the hunt for Osama bin Laden began and continues outside 
Iraq. And because we have lost our focus, Afghanistan is now spinning 
back toward violence and chaos.

After the U.S.-led invasion of 2001, the Taliban was down and 
wounded. Now it seems the Taliban is growing stronger. Over the past 2 
years, southern Afghanistan has seen the worst violence since the 
Taliban was dismantled. Last year was the deadliest year for troops in 
Afghanistan since 2001. Today, al-Qaida has also found sanctuary in 
remote areas of Pakistan, and the Afghani-Pakistani border is so porous 
that terrorists flow through it like wind.

If all of this were not bad enough, just look at what the President's 
war has done to America's standing and prestige in the world. There 
used to be a time when people saw America as the moral leader, and 
Americans were proud of this country's standing in the world. In World 
War II, for example, we had strength because most of the free world was 
with us. Now is not one of those times. Now much of the world is 
against us. More than 70 percent of Iraqis disapprove of American 
presence in their country, and 67 percent of citizens across the globe 
believe American forces should leave Iraq within a year. Countries that 
were our allies when we first invaded Iraq, such as Italy, Poland, 
Spain, and Denmark, have left us in the desert. And Great Britain, one 
of America's greatest historical allies, sent its troops from Iraq into 
Afghanistan.


President Bush, why are we not so wise?

To date, the President has spent more than $526 billion on the war in 
Iraq. That is more than half a trillion dollars on a war that continues 
to take American youth, empower our rivals, turn our friends against 
us, and let our enemies remain on the loose.

If that cost were not unbelievable enough, the President had the 
audacity to ask the American people to spend even more. He has a 
pending request of $105 billion for the rest of 2008, and Defense 
Secretary Robert Gates has estimated that Iraq will cost another $170 
billion for 2009. Every dime we spend on Iraq is a dime we cannot spend 
on our home--on homeland security for our cities, police for our 
streets, education for our children, and health care for our families. 
In fact, the President has requested just now a cut of $800 million 
from a critical homeland security grant program, leaving Americans more 
exposed to dangers at home.

It is time for us to realize it is never going to be enough money. 
Former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld used to say we would stand 
down when the Iraqis stood up. No one says that anymore.

So let me stand up and make it clear: It is time for the troops to 
start coming home. They have earned the right to get back to their 
loved ones, their kids, their spouses, and their country. I hope we 
will see that day in the not too distant future.

With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor.