# RECOGNIZING TRAVIS SHRUM, RECIPIENT OF THE TEMPE MAYOR'S DISABILITY  AWARD, AS OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR
## `a0e125d6de4d5c53a800122d8284a096`
`Mr. MITCHELL — 17 June 2009`

---


Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Travis 
Shrum, a veteran of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan from my 
hometown of Tempe, who was recently presented with the Mayor's 
Disability Award as Outstanding Employee of the Year. The Mayor's 
Disability Award honors Tempe residents who have overcome significant 
barriers to succeed in the workplace.

In 2007 and 2008, Travis served with the Army National Guard as an 
infantry soldier and gunner in Afghanistan, where he escorted security 
forces protecting civilians. Like many veterans, after returning home 
to the United States, Travis brought home the physical and emotional 
scars of war. He struggled with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and, 
subsequently, took a leave of absence from his job at a Walgreen's 
store in Tempe to concentrate on transitioning to civilian life. With 
the patience and support of the Phoenix Veterans Health Administration, 
Travis has bounced back and is once again thriving. He has returned to 
work as an assistant manager at Walgreen's, where he works full-time 
and manages a staff of 42.

Travis is a wonderful example of the Phoenix VA's commitment to 
returning veterans, and I'm proud to note that he is now outspoken 
about the need to reach out to other veterans who are eligible for VA's 
medical services and mental-health support. Travis plans to enroll at 
Arizona State University with the ultimate goal of becoming a physical 
therapist and working with veterans.

Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring Travis Shrum for his 
courageous service to our country and perseverance in overcoming 
personal challenges.
