# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5822, MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND  VETERANS AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2011
## `a0f39cfed352e55a801131815f874dce`
`Ms. PINGREE of Maine â€” 28 July 2010`

---


Ms. PINGREE of Maine. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 1559 provides for consideration of H.R. 
5822, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act of 2011, under a structured rule. The rule 
provides 1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. 
The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill 
except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. The rule waives 
points of order against provisions of the bill for failure to comply 
with clause 2 of rule XXI. The rule makes in order only those 
amendments printed in the report. All points of order against the 
amendments except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI are 
waived.

The rule provides that for those amendments reported from the 
Committee of the Whole, the question of their adoption shall be put to 
the House en gros and without division of the question. The rule 
provides one motion to recommit with or without instructions. The rule 
provides that after consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair 
and the ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or 
their designees each may offer one pro forma amendment to the bill for 
the purpose of debate. Finally, the Chair may entertain a motion that 
the Committee rise only if offered by the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or his designee.

Mr. Speaker, for more than 9 years our country has been engaged in 
two conflicts halfway around the world. The number of wounded military 
personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan has put a financial strain on the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. The VA expects to treat more than 6.1 
million patients in 2011, including more than 439,000 veterans of Iraq 
and Afghanistan. In addition, the constant training, deployment, and 
redeployment of our troops have put a significant burden on our 
military.

H.R. 5822 appropriates funding for military construction, veterans 
programs, and four related agencies. Our troops have performed 
admirably wherever they have been deployed, and Congress has an 
obligation to provide the care and compensation to every eligible 
veteran. This bill also provides additional funding for the Guard and 
Reserves to address critical unfunded requirements as a result of 
prolonged and repeated deployments. In my home State of Maine, 
thousands of Guard and Reservists have made invaluable contributions to 
our national defense, and I am proud to see this funding included in 
the bill.

H.R. 5822 renews our commitment to redevelop closed military bases 
and their surrounding communities. The bill provides necessary funding 
to implement the 2005 BRAC and address the enormous backlog of 
environmental cleanup projects from previous BRAC rounds. This funding 
is essential to communities across the country, including the towns of 
Brunswick and Topsham in my district, which are already experiencing 
economic difficulties from the closing of Brunswick Naval Air Station. 
We must do everything we can to support the communities that the BRAC 
bases leave behind.

While the investments in military construction are vital, they are 
only a small portion of this bill. The vast majority of legislation is 
devoted to veterans' programs. The bill provides the necessary funding 
for veterans' medical care, claims processors, and facility 
improvements, including increased funding for mental health services, 
assistance programs for homeless veterans, and innovative services for 
veterans in rural areas.

The military construction projects in this bill are vital to ensure 
that the


missions of each installation are carried out in the most efficient 
manner possible. One great example is the funding contained in this 
bill for Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine. The shipyard 
provides world-class overhaul, repair, and modernization of nuclear 
submarines. The yard has a reputation of delivering subs back to the 
fleet on time and under budget.

This fall, the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard will welcome the first 
Virginia-class submarine to Maine for an overhaul. This bill contains 
$11.9 million to modernize the structural shops at the yard, which will 
improve the equipment layout and streamline process flow within the 
shipyard. It will help workers at the yard continue to do high quality 
work while increasing their efficiency. And this funding is essential 
to this mission. Increasing maintenance efficiencies and eliminating 
redundancies will no doubt make the yard more competitive for Navy sub 
projects in the future.

The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is an economic success story in Maine. 
The yard is in the middle of adding approximately 160 new jobs this 
year, jobs like painters, sheet metal workers, electricians, welders, 
and engineers. And the construction work that this bill will fund will 
be done by outside contractors, bringing even more jobs to the area. 
The funding in this bill will help this economic engine in southern 
Maine remain competitive and create new, good-paying jobs.

Finally, I am very proud of what this bill does for our Nation's 
veterans. Their service has earned them world-class health care and 
benefits, and Congress has a moral obligation to provide the best 
benefits possible.



This bill is an example of what happens when politics is put aside 
and veterans come first. I strongly support this rule which provides 
for consideration of this essential legislation.

I reserve the balance of my time.