# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `a0f5a9b285a66df08c07eb11fbac9a65`
`Mrs. HUTCHISON — 26 April 2007`

---


Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, when Tom Brokaw wrote the book ''The 
Greatest Generation,'' it reminded America what is great about our 
country. It reminded us that men and women have sacrificed through the 
years for our country to make sure it was free for the next generation.

Can you imagine in the middle of World War II the Congress mandating 
the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Europe and the Pacific, oblivious to 
the facts on the ground or the absolute necessity to win? Can you even 
imagine in the middle of the Cold War if Congress had required the 
withdrawal of troops from the same parts of the world, thinking that if 
we withdrew our troops, the Communists would do the same and peace 
would prevail?

If earlier Congresses had done what it appears this Congress is 
trying to do, freedom would have died in Europe, it would have died 
where it was in Asia, and who knows what would have happened in the 
future in America.

Today we have to ask ourselves: Are we worthy of the sacrifices so 
many have made in the past? Are we going to stand for freedom and fight 
for future Americans to have the same opportunities we have had because 
so many brave men and women have sacrificed?

There are those who say this isn't a world war; it is a civil war; it 
is over there, and we can't do anything about it. This is a tough time, 
there is no question. Every one of us grieves when we see the killing 
of innocent people, Iraqis or Americans. But make no mistake about it, 
this is a world war. Al-Qaida is in Iraq. General Petraeus said that 
yesterday. They have all the evidence. They know what al-Qaida is doing 
there. They are attacking Americans. They are attacking Iraqis. They 
are trying to take over Iraq so they will have the capability to spread 
their terrorism throughout the world.

Does that mean they are in a civil war or are they an enemy we must 
face? If we don't face it there, we will face it in our own country. 
General Abizaid, the former Commander of U.S. CENTCOM, said to the 
Armed Services Committee: If we leave, they will follow us home. If we 
don't stand for freedom against this enemy, we will see it again. We 
will see it on our own shores, and we will see it in other parts of the 
world.

It would be unimaginable to me for Congress not to fund our troops 
and to send the mixed message out of Washington to the enemy, to our 
allies in such an important conflict that Congress isn't sure if 
America has the will to stand and fight for freedom. And make no 
mistake about it, that is what is at stake in these votes that are 
happening on Capitol Hill.

I have heard people say: Oh, we are going to vote on this every month 
because it is good for politics. They may think it is good for 
politics, but I say the American people are going to get it. They are 
going to understand if we look weak in the Congress on standing and 
fighting the enemy wherever it is to keep Americans secure, they will 
see what happens and they will question if


we are worthy of the sacrifices of the greatest generation.

I wondered when that book came out: If America were ever attacked, 
would we stand and fight for freedom? I hope the answer is yes. I hope 
the Congress will wake up and see that setting deadlines and sending 
the signal to the enemy that we are weak is not worthy of the 
sacrifices of the past.

I hope Congress will do the right thing, strip this language, send 
the money to the troops, and show that we, too, will stand for freedom 
for our children.

I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.