---
---

# TRIBUTE TO OUR TROOPS
## `a0f8d09111802f284bac90ee81a60c96`
`Mr. KINGSTON — 12 February 2007`

---


Mr. KINGSTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to submit to the Record an 
article by the writer, actor, economist and lawyer, Ben Stein. This 
article, titled ''Greetings from Rancho Mirage'', expresses support and 
encouragement to our many hardworking and dedicated troops abroad:








 Greetings From Rancho Mirage--by Ben Stein




 Dear Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, National Guard, 


 Reservists, in Iraq, in the Middle East theater, in 


 Afghanistan, in the area near Afghanistan, in any base 


 anywhere in the world, and your families:



 Let me tell you about why you guys own about 90 percent of 


 the backbone in the whole world right now and should be happy 


 with yourselves and proud of whom you are.



 It was a dazzlingly hot day here in Rancho Mirage today. I 


 did small errands like going to the bank to pay my mortgage, 


 finding a new bed at a price I can afford, practicing driving 


 with my new 5 wood, paying bills for about two hours. I spoke 


 for a long time to a woman who is going through a nasty child 


 custody fight. I got e-mails from a woman who was fired today 


 from her job for not paying attention. I read about multi-


 billion-dollar mergers in Europe, Asia, and the Mideast. I 


 noticed how overweight I am, for the millionth time. In other 


 words, I did a lot of nothing.



 Like every other American who is not in the armed forces 


 family, I basically just rearranged the deck chairs on the 


 Titanic in my trivial, self-important, meaningless way.



 Above all, I talked to a friend of more than forty-three 


 years who told me he thought his life had no meaning because 


 all he did was count his money. And, friends in the armed 


 forces, this is the story of all of America today. We are 


 doing nothing but treading water while you guys carry on the 


 life or death struggle against worldwide militant Islamic 


 terrorism. Our lives are about nothing: paying bills, going 


 to humdrum jobs, waiting until we can go to sleep and then do 


 it all again. Our most vivid issues are trivia compared with 


 what you do every day, every minute, every second.



 Oprah Winfrey talks a lot about ''meaning'' in life. For 


 her, ''meaning'' is dieting and then having her photo on the 


 cover of her magazine every single month (surely a new world 


 record for egomania). This is not ''meaning.''



 --Meaning is doing for others.



 --Meaning is risking your life for hers.



 --Meaning is putting your bodies and families' peace of 


 mind on the line to defeat some of the most evil, sick 


 killers the world has ever known.



 --Meaning is leaving the comfort of home to fight to make 


 sure that there still will be a home for your family and for 


 your nation and for free men and women everywhere.



 Look, soldiers and Marines and sailors and airmen and Coast 


 Guardsmen, there are eight billion people in this world. The 


 whole fate of this world turns on what you people, 1.4 


 million, more or less, do every day. The fate of mankind 


 depends on what about 2/100 of one percent of the people in 


 this world do every day and you are those people. And joining 


 you is every policeman, fireman, and Emergency Medical 


 Technician in the country, also holding back the tide of 


 chaos.



 Do you know how important you are? Do you know how 


 indispensable you are? Do you know how humbly grateful any of 


 us who has a head on his shoulders is to you? Do you know 


 that if you never do another thing in your lives, you will 


 always still be heroes? That we could live without hollywood 


 or Wall Street or the NFL, but we cannot live for a week 


 without you?



 We are on our knees to you and we bless and pray for you 


 every moment. And Oprah Winfrey, if she were a size two, 


 would not have one millionth of your importance, and all of 


 the Wall Street billionaires will never mean what the least 


 of you do, and if Barry Bonds hits hundreds of home runs it 


 would not mean as much as you going on one patrol or driving 


 one truck to the Baghdad airport.



 You are everything to us, as we go through our little days, 


 and you are in the prayers of the nation and of every decent 


 man and woman on the planet. That's who you are and what you 


 mean. I hope you know that.





 Love,



 Ben Stein.
