---
---

# CONGRESS MUST STOP ATTACK ON IRAN
## `a0fb8ec3e2cbba9f04b4b8237890a3d4`
`Mr. VAN HOLLEN — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Speaker, I am placing in the Congressional 
Record this op-ed by my constituent Leonard Weiss. Mr. Weiss is a 
senior science fellow at the Center for International and Security 
Cooperation (CISAC) at Stanford University and a consultant to the 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. His research at CISAC includes 
an assessment of the impact on the non-proliferation regime of nuclear 
trade with non-signers of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.

This piece, written with his colleague Larry Diamond of Stanford's 
Hoover Institution, recommends that Congress hold hearings to examine 
U.S. policies regarding Iran and suggests a number of options available 
to Congress to address the troubling issue of Iran's nuclear 
activities. We must conduct a healthy debate of all the options at our 
disposal. This article contributes to that important discussion.








 [From Los Angeles Times.Com, Feb. 5, 2007]










Congress Must Stop an Attack on Iran










(By Leonard Weiss and Larry Diamond)




 Despite anguish and anger over the Bush administration's 


 decision to escalate its failing war in Iraq, Congress is 


 unlikely to cut off funding. Even most opponents of the war 


 fear that they could be blamed for not supporting the troops 


 in the field and for a possible descent into even greater 


 catastrophe in the face of a precipitous U.S. withdrawal from 


 Iraq.



 But nothing prevents Congress from using its power of the 


 purse to prevent an American attack on Iran. President Bush's 


 neoconservative advisors and pundit supporters have been 


 beating the drums of war with Iran since 2003, when the 


 president declared Iran to be part of an ''axis of evil.'' 


 Recall that a senior administration official told The Times 


 that Iran should ''take a number'' in the wake of the 


 invasion of Iraq. In his recent address to the nation on the 


 troop surge in Iraq, Bush issued more threats to Iran. Now 


 the president has named a Navy admiral to head the U.S. 


 Central Command and dispatched a second aircraft carrier and 


 minesweepers to the Persian Gulf, presumably to prevent Iran 


 from closing the Strait of Hormuz in the event of conflict.



 These developments and other administration moves could 


 presage an air attack on Iran's nuclear facilities.



 Iran is not innocent of dangerous and provocative behavior. 


 Tehran has supported insurgent groups in Iraq, including 


 helping to provide sophisticated explosives that have killed 


 U.S. soldiers. And Iran's continued development of a nuclear 


 enrichment facility is in defiance of the international 


 community's demand to halt those actions. President Mahmoud 


 Ahmadinejad's repulsive statements about the Holocaust and 


 Israel add to the nervousness about Iran's future actions.



 But war is not yet justified, except in the minds of those 


 who have been lobbying for it for years. Iran is still years 


 away from being a nuclear threat, and our experience with 


 ''preventive war'' in Iraq should teach us a thing or two. 


 Launching another such war without international approval 


 would leave us even more politically isolated and militarily 


 overstretched. Attacking a Middle Eastern country--one much 


 stronger than Iraq and with the ability to cut off oil 


 supplies from the Strait of Hormuz--could inflame the region, 


 intensify Shiite militia attacks on our soldiers in Iraq and 


 stimulate terrorist attacks on Americans and U.S. interests 


 worldwide.



 But recklessness, not prudence, has been the hallmark of 


 this administration's foreign policy. Beyond this, the 


 president and vice president subscribe to what some call the 


 ''unitary executive,'' which is a fancy way of saying they 


 believe that Congress cannot prevent the president from doing 


 almost anything he wants. The 1973 War Powers Act, passed in 


 the wake of our disastrous war in Vietnam, allows the 


 president to put U.S. troops in a combat situation under 


 certain conditions before obtaining any congressional 


 authorization to do so. When Bush signed the Iraq war 


 resolution, he issued a statement challenging the 


 constitutionality of the War Powers Act, indicating that he 


 could take the nation to war without obeying its 


 restrictions. Unfortunately, even if the president were to 


 agree to the act's restrictions, he could still attack Iran 


 and have up to 90 days before being required to get 


 congressional authorization for the attack.



 What to do? Congress should not wait. It should hold 


 hearings on Iran before the president orders a bombing attack 


 on its nuclear facilities, or orders or supports a 


 provocative act by the U.S. or an ally designed to get Iran 


 to retaliate, and thus further raise war fever.



 Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.), chairman of the Senate 


 Foreign Relations Committee, has warned the administration 


 that it had better seek congressional authorization for any 


 attack on Iran. But we need Senate and House hearings now to 


 put the Bush administration on notice that, in the absence of 


 an imminent military attack or a verified terrorist attack on 


 the United States by Iran, Congress will not support a U.S. 


 military strike on that country. Those hearings should aim 


 toward passage of a law preventing the expenditure of any 


 funds for a military attack on Iran unless Congress has 


 either declared war with that country or has otherwise 


 authorized military action under the War Powers Act.



 The law should be attached to an appropriations bill, 


 making it difficult for the president to veto. If he simply 


 claims that he is not bound by the restriction even if he 


 signs it into law, and then orders an attack on Iran without 


 congressional authorization for it, Congress should file a 


 lawsuit and begin impeachment proceedings.



 It is, of course, possible that the president's truculent 


 language and actions toward Iran are a bluff, an attempt to 


 rein in its irresponsible behavior.



 But the administration's mendacious and incompetent course 


 of action in taking the nation to war with Iraq gives us no 


 reason to provide the president with the benefit of any 


 doubt. And stiffening economic sanctions--at a time when 


 Iran's economy is ailing and the regime is losing popular 


 support--offers a better and safer prospect of exerting 


 leverage.



 Another war of choice would only pour fuel on the fires of 


 the Middle East. And the history of this administration shows 


 that if Congress does not constrain this president, he could 


 well act recklessly again, in ways that would profoundly 


 damage our national interest.
