---
---

# None
## `a10918169ecbd44215e218525175ad49`
`Mr. CORNYN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, to my knowledge, we are of one mind that 
we do want to leave Iraq. The question is, Under what conditions? I 
don't believe Prime Minister Maliki certainly is on record as saying he 
wants us to leave at a time when his government would be rent asunder 
and Iraq would descend into sectarian war and perhaps a regional 
conflict. But the fact is, GEN David Petraeus, the general whom we 
confirmed unanimously just a short time ago, has recommended to the 
Commander in Chief a new strategy known as the surge, which was 
completed just last month, a few short weeks ago. Now he has said to 
give that surge an opportunity to do its job and he will come back and 
report to us in September. I think we ought to give that a reasonable 
chance.

While the distinguished majority whip wants to talk about the Levin 
amendment, I think we will have plenty of time to talk about that 
during the course of the evening.

The irony is, we are ready to vote on the Levin amendment at almost 
any time. But we are going to have a big political theater tonight. We 
will have a lot of fun having a Senate slumber party for the benefit of 
organizations such as moveon.org, which is having a press conference at 
8:30 tonight. We ought to be having a serious debate and voting on 
these amendments, which we are happy to do at virtually anytime.

I worry when I hear my friend say stabilization will take place on 
Iraqi terms, as if the only consequences of a failure in Iraq would be 
borne by the Iraqis. The fact is, according to the National 
Intelligence Estimate, the intelligence community, the Iraq Study 
Group, and others, it will make America less safe by creating a safe 
haven for organizations such as al-Qaida to plot, plan, train, and to 
export future terrorist attacks against the United States.

If we think they are modest in their goals, I think we need to think 
again. Rather than a crude instrument like an airplane flying into the 
Pentagon and the World Trade Center, this terrorist organization in 
Iraq, which considers Iraq the central front in their war against the 
West, is trying to get biological, chemical, and even nuclear weapons. 
Woe be the day that they get their hands on those and use them against 
America or its allies.

So I think we should be of one mind with this sense of the Senate 
that says we would take no action that would make it more likely that 
Iraq would descend into a failed state to create that haven for 
terrorists.

I yield the floor and reserve my time.