---
---

# PAYING TRIBUTE TO ROBERT CONGDON
## `a10f208867824adc504c4e732bf0639d`
`Mr. PORTER — 12 March 2008`

---


Mr. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor United States Army 
Staff Sergeant Robert Congdon, for his heroic efforts in saving five 
lives while under heavy enemy gunfire on January 18, 2008 in Iraq.

Robert is a native of the Las Vegas community. He is a graduate of 
Bonanza High School. He was a former local lifeguard, paramedic, and is 
currently an active member of the United States Army. Robert is 
currently stationed in Georgia, where his wife Bonnie and two year old 
daughter Samantha reside. Robert's parents, Margaret and Gary Congdon 
reside in Las Vegas, Nevada along with his sister, Crystal Hill. His 
younger brother Michael is also in the United States Army and he is 
stationed in Sparks, Nevada.

Robert is currently on his second tour in Iraq. His first was with 
the 101st Airborne Division. On January 18, 2008, Robert was caught 
dodging bullets from a sniper while trying to rescue five soldiers 
wounded from a roadside blast on a Stryker armored vehicle. He found 
himself close enough to the blast to race toward his wounded comrades, 
and was able to avoid any other improvised explosive devices that might 
be nearby. Robert successfully rescued three of the wounded, and on his 
way back for the two remaining wounded soldiers, a sniper opened fire. 
He alerted other military personnel in the vicinity about the situation 
at hand, but he knew that he had to help his two remaining comrades to 
safety because of the severity of their wounds. Robert and medical 
personnel assisted in dragging the two men nearly the distance of a 
football field and bringing them to safety.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor United States Army Staff Sergeant 
Robert Congdon for his dedication to the United States Army, and 
dedication to his comrades. His leadership is a true testament of his 
honor and devotion to our nation. I am proud to represent this hero and 
the many others from the great state of Nevada.
