# WASTEFUL SPENDING AMENDMENT
## `a10fd5827da03656fa4fefd64a504544`
`Mr. CORNYN â€” 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I rise in support of the amendment pending 
on the floor, the second look at wasteful spending amendment, otherwise 
known as the Gregg amendment, after the distinguished Senator from New 
Hampshire. The truth is, we might call this really the Daschle 
amendment or the Byrd amendment or the Levin amendment or Murray or 
Dodd, other Senators who have supported virtually this same proposal on 
previous occasions. I will explain that more in just a moment.

If we look at this amendment, compared with one offered by the former 
majority leader, Senator Tom Daschle, when the Democrats were, again, 
in leadership, we can see how the Gregg amendment corresponds 
virtually, precisely with the proposal made by then-Democratic majority 
leader Tom Daschle. It established a fast-track congressional process 
for consideration of Presidential rescissions. It required 
congressional affirmation of rescissions. It allowed the President to 
suspend funds for a maximum of 45 days. It does not permit the 
President to resubmit rescissions once rejected by the Congress. It 
allowed rescissions of discretionary funding and targeted tax benefits. 
It did not allow rescissions of new mandatory programs. That is one 
area where this differs from the Daschle amendment. The Gregg amendment 
would permit rescission of new mandatory spending.

I interject, if we are going to get a handle on runaway Federal 
spending, it is not going to be in discretionary spending alone. We 
have actually--contrary, perhaps, to popular perception--done a pretty 
good job limiting nondefense, nonhomeland security discretionary 
spending. But to paraphrase, that is not where the money is. Where the 
money is actually in mandatory spending--in entitlement spending, such 
as Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security.

So the Gregg amendment quite appropriately addresses rescission of 
new, not existing, new mandatory spending programs. We can see here 
that in virtually every respect except two--the one I just mentioned 
and that only four rescission packages would be permitted annually 
under the Gregg amendment--there is virtual identity between these two 
amendments.

Why is this so important? I have to tell my colleagues that as I 
travel around my State of Texas, there are issues people talk to me 
about, as with other Members. They are concerned about our lack of 
border security. They are concerned, obviously, about the war on terror 
and the way forward in Iraq. But one of the really top three issues 
that my constituents talk to me about is Federal spending. They worry 
about the deficit. They worry about the long-term obligation under 
Social Security and Medicare, a bill that is going to be paid by our 
children and grandchildren, about the morality of basically putting 
this burden on their backs in the future. So what this amendment does, 
this second look at wasteful spending, it allows us to cut out some of 
the pork, cut out some of the waste in a way that I think responds to 
this very realistic concern by the American people.

You will note that in 1995, when Senator Daschle offered this 
amendment, this was, of course, during the Clinton administration--I 
want to note that--we had 21 Democratic Senators--virtually all of 
whom, I guess, are still in the Senate--who supported that Daschle 
amendment. My hope is they would vote for cloture so we can have an up-
or-down vote on this Gregg amendment, which, as I showed a moment ago, 
is virtually identical.

Let's look at some of the quotes back then by distinguished Members 
of the Senate in support of the Daschle amendment. My hope would be 
that Senators would remember, perhaps have their recollection refreshed 
by this exercise in a way that would encourage them to have at least an 
open mind and possibly even embrace the Gregg amendment today as they 
did the Daschle amendment back in 1995.

Senator Byrd, the distinguished chairman of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, someone who respects congressional prerogative and 
understands the separation of powers perhaps better than anybody else 
in this body, said:




 I have no problem with giving the President another 


 opportunity to select from appropriations bills certain items 


 which he feels for his political or for whatever reasons, I 


 have no problem with his sending them to the two Houses and 


 our giving him a vote.


That was on March 22, 1995.

Then there is this comment by Senator Feinstein, the distinguished 
Senator from California. She said:




 Really, what a line-item veto is all about is deterrence, 


 and that deterrence is aimed at the porkbarrel. I sincerely 


 believe that a line-item veto will work.


What we are talking about, this so-called rescission provision, is in 
essence a version of the line-item veto, something Presidents have 
called for in


the past on both sides of the aisle and something I believe, obviously, 
there has existed bipartisan support for in the Senate.

Then there is Senator Dorgan, who has said:




 Fully 43 Governors have the line-item veto, which suggests 


 to me that it is a power that the President can safely wield 


 . . . That is why I voted for it, and why I am pleased it is 


 now the law of the land.


This was back on April 25, 1996.

Of course, we know what happened to the line-item veto. It ultimately 
was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court. That is why we have had to 
come back with this modification of this rescission package in order to 
address the Court's concerns and to ensure its constitutionality.

Then there is the distinguished Senator from Delaware, Senator Joe 
Biden, who said:




 Mr. President, I have long supported an experiment with the 


 line-item veto power for the President.


That was Senator Biden on March 27, 1996.

Then there is Senator Dodd who has said:




 I support the substitute offered by Senator Daschle.


That is the Daschle amendment.




 I believe it is a reasonable line-item veto alternative. It 


 requires both Houses of Congress to vote on a President's 


 rescission list and sets up a fast-track procedure to ensure 


 that a vote occurs in a prompt and timely manner.


There are just a couple of more. Mr. Feingold, the Senator from 
Wisconsin, said this:




 The line-item veto is about getting rid of those items 


 after the President has them on his desk. I think this will 


 prove to be a useful tool in eliminating some of the things 


 that have happened in Congress that have been held up to 


 public ridicule.


That obviously goes with the pork spending, the embarrassing earmarks 
that we have heard so much about from our constituents, particularly 
leading up to this last election.

Senator Murray said:




 I want to give the President the ability to line-item veto 


 all those portions of the appropriations bills that have not 


 been through the hearing and authorization process. All those 


 pork items contribute to our deficit.


I think we have one more from Senator Dorgan, but we have already 
heard from him. There is one last one from Mr. Levin, the distinguished 
Senator from Michigan. He said:




 That so-called expedited rescission process, it seems to 


 me, is constitutional and is something which we can in good 


 conscience, at least I in good conscience, support.


My point is obvious, perhaps, but let me, at the risk of beating a 
dead horse, say it again. If this was good policy back in 1995 and 
1996, what has changed in 2007? I submit the only thing that has 
changed is that our deficit has increased for many years, part of which 
is porkbarrel spending which can be eliminated with the kind of 
cooperation that this particular amendment would allow. I suggest to 
our Democratic colleagues--in the spirit of bipartisanship in which we 
have started this new Congress with the overwhelming bipartisan passage 
of an ethics and lobby reform bill and consideration of this minimum 
wage bill with appropriate relief for small businesses when it comes to 
regulations and tax relief that will attenuate some of the blow--this 
is an appropriate amendment for us to consider and pass.

I hope the spirit of bipartisanship does not end so early on in this 
session of the Senate. I know there are many cynics who believe it will 
die an early death. I am not one of them. I remain hopeful and 
optimistic that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle will embrace 
this opportunity to do the right thing for the people of this great 
country.

I yield the floor.