# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS
## `a1190b14d247d8be6ca3cf821f1a0498`
`Mr. COBURN â€” 6 September 2007`

---


Mr. COBURN. Madam President, I have three amendments that I will 
discuss in a group, and I believe one of them will be accepted by the 
majority and ranking member, and that is an amendment creating 
transparency at the World Bank on the malaria program. I will spend a 
very short time talking about that.

What we know is we have seen in the last 2/1/2/ years a tremendous 
change--much of it thanks to the chairman of this committee in terms of 
transparency and in working with us on the malaria program--but we have 
seen a change from using the wrong medicines, the wrong techniques, and 
the wrong prevention techniques. We have 2 million people a year in 
Africa die from a preventable, curable, treatable disease.

Not long after I came to the Senate, myself along with Norm Coleman 
and other people who have done great work--and Senator Brownback as 
well--on malaria, as well as the chairman, what we saw was an 
ineffective program. The President had a malaria initiative--PMI--and 
it was set out and peer-reviewed--scientific data to approach this 
disease from both prevention and treatment. What we saw at the World 
Bank was a failed $500 million program and an attempt at another 
program for which there is no transparency. But the reports from the 
scientific literature Lancet, the greatest medical periodical from the 
British, had a devastating article outlining the fact that the World 
Bank continues to use drugs that don't treat, drugs that have 
resistance, it does not do preventive indoor spraying, does not 
distribute on a free basis bed netting--the three significant, 
consistent ways in which we treat African malaria, as well as the way 
we treat it throughout the rest of the world.

So I want to thank them in advance for doing that. This simply says 
that the World Bank has to be transparent with what they are doing on 
malaria.

What we know is the World Health Organization has also changed 
significantly. We are going to see hundreds of millions of people's 
lives markedly changed through an appropriate drug treatment prevention 
strategy for malaria. Of those 2 million people who die every year, 500 
million of them are 5 years of age and under--I mean 500,000. Five 
hundred thousand are pregnant women. There are another 500,000 children 
who are permanently brain damaged from malaria. If we are going to help 
in foreign aid, then it ought to be effective foreign aid. So I thank 
the chairman and ranking member for their consideration on that.

The next amendment I would like to bring up talks about having some 
transparency with the $5.3 billion we send to the United Nations every 
year. This body, as well as the House, unanimously passed transparency 
and accountability for our own Government and our own agencies. We are 
going to see this next January where everything in this country where 
the taxpayers' money is spent is going to be online and available for 
taxpayers, peer-reviewed looks, watchdog groups, as well as the press 
to see how we are spending money.

What this amendment does is it ensures that the U.S. contribution to 
the United Nations is not being wasted to fraud, which we have seen 
multiple times at the United Nations--waste, abuse, corruption, which 
we have seen and which has been documented--by maximizing the public 
transparency of all U.N. spending or our contribution thereof. This 
amendment says that the Secretary of State certify publicly that the 
United Nations is publicly transparent about its spending this year, 
before any of the money we are going to send to the United Nations next 
year is sent. The basic transparency required by this amendment would 
include a posting on a publicly available Web site of copies of all 
contracts, grants, program reviews, audits, budgets, and progress 
reports relating to fiscal year 2007.

There are a lot of reasons the U.N. should be accountable and 
transparent, the first of which--and I won't go into a lot of details--
is the Oil for Food Program where $10 billion was mismanaged, stolen, 
and fraudulently used in a way that was totally unaccountable, to the 
detriment of the people of Iraq. As of this time, there have been eight 
guilty pleas, two guilty verdicts, two agreements of forfeiture 
judgments, and nine pending cases. There are also fugitives from the 
corruption of that.

The U.N. to this day refuses to fully and publicly release the Oil 
for Food Program's contracts and financial documents. Some people will 
say: Well, you can't force this on the U.N.

(Mrs. BOXER assumed the Chair.)