---
---

# IRAQ AND THE ECONOMY
## `a1247d1736e84ef74312791e74bacc7a`
`Mr. BRALEY of Iowa — 16 April 2008`

---


Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Well, as our good friend and colleague from 
Arkansas Marion Berry would say, That dog don't hunt. This is a classic 
example of what we've seen over and over and over again from 
procurement decisions that are being made that have an adverse effect 
on American taxpayers. And I think if you go back to the beginning when 
they set up the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, that it was 
set up with the intent of using Iraqi assets to rebuild the country and 
to shift the dependency from the government or from the United States 
back to the Iraqi people through the oil revenues that we're talking 
about.

And we've seen in committee hearings here photographs of Ford trucks 
full of pallets that had $250 million in cash per pallet that were part 
of a $2.1 billion one-day transfer of cash to the Iraqi government, the 
largest single transfer of cash in U.S. history. And that was part of a 
transfer of cash that led to $9 billion of missing money that was 
supposed to be part of the initial reconstruction of Iraq.

Then the idea was to use those Iraqi oil revenues to pick up the 
responsibility and complete the work of rebuilding Iraq. And instead, 
we know that one of the big challenges the Iraqi government has faced 
is coming to some agreement on the division of oil revenues, and that's 
been a major obstacle to rebuilding the country and bringing about 
national reconciliation. And who is paying the tab for that? U.S. 
taxpayers.

That is why the issue we're talking about is so important. Because 
when U.S. taxpayers are bearing the burden of this war, it has an 
enormous ripple effect throughout our economy because one of the things 
we know is that when we have these ever-growing trade deficits with 
countries like China, which is our principal creditor, it makes it very 
difficult to keep the economy in this country rolling along providing 
the types of goods and services at a reasonable rate; and that has an 
enormous impact throughout the economy. And I'm sure as we get further 
into this, we will have some real examples of the enormous impact on 
various sectors of the U.S. economy from the burden that we are all 
responsible for.

But I have to tell you, the idea that you mentioned about shifting 
the burden in H. Res. 111, I can tell you this is an enormously popular 
bipartisan idea. In fact, last weekend in my home State of Iowa, the 
Des Moines Register interviewed every member of the Iowa congressional 
delegation, Republicans, Democrats, Senators, Representatives, and 
everyone was unanimous in their sentiment that is exactly the one you 
expressed in your resolution.

It is time for the Iraqis to pick up the tab for their own well-being 
and let the American taxpayers focus on the enormous economic problems 
we're dealing with at home: The bailout of Bear Stearns, the subprime 
mortgage crisis, all of the things that you work on every day in the 
Financial Services Committee. And because of that unique role that you 
play here in Congress, I think you have some special insights that 
probably would be very enlightening to the people watching tonight and 
the people of this country about what you're dealing with on a daily 
basis that's being impacted by this ongoing financial commitment.