---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a12ac8771e7d4521be2fa429e2ba6250`
`Ms. PELOSI — 19 June 2008`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for yielding.

I want to join my colleague, Mr. Obey, the distinguished chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee, in acknowledging the great work of Rob 
Nabors and all of the staff involved in putting this bill together 
today.

I want to join him in acknowledging the leadership of the 
distinguished minority leader, our majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, the 
chairman, Mr. Rangel, for his important work on unemployment insurance, 
Mr. McDermott, who just spoke, for his important work getting the bill 
ready. Mr. Lewis, to you and to Mr. Cantor and all involved in all 
this. Mr. Murtha, to you as well, and Mr. Skelton, to you as well.

We were able to come to this compromise because we were ready. As Mr. 
McDermott said, earlier in the year we had a bill ready for 
unemployment insurance. It wasn't going to be signed by the President. 
We had to put it off until another time. Two weeks ago tomorrow, the 
unemployment rate in our country shot up by half a point from 
approximately 5 to 5.5 percent. It sent a very stern message to the 
Congress of the United States and to the President that we must act.

Following that, on the floor last week, on two occasions, we had a 
very strong bipartisan vote in favor of unemployment insurance. So when 
Mr. Rangel went to the table to talk about compromise, it was clear 
that we had to reflect the will of the American people, and he was 
ready, he was ready with the legislation. And I'm pleased that Mr. 
Boehner was ready to accept that.

When we started talking about the final versions of this bill in the 
past couple of weeks, little did we know that the skies would open and 
rain would fall and the Midwest of our country would be deluged, and 
there would be a need to make some adjustment in this bill for disaster 
assistance to the Midwest and to replenish the FEMA fund to make up for 
funds spent now. We were ready. And I don't think there was any 
compromise on that subject; we all agreed that that had to be done.

I am particularly pleased that in the legislation there is a signal 
sent that this Congress cares about investments in science, it cares 
about the future, not as much as I would like, but nonetheless, I thank 
you, Mr. Chairman, for having that included. And I thank my colleagues 
for accepting that.

I want to join in all the commendations, again, to those who helped 
bring this compromise to the floor. I am very pleased that it has the 
GI Bill, finally. It became clear that this is what we had to do, what 
we owed our young people to say thank you to them by sending them to 
college. Mr. Chet Edwards has been a champion on this issue. I will 
come back to that in a moment.

But, Mr. Speaker, I'm sorry that I cannot fully participate in all of 
the comradery that is accompanying this legislation that we bring to 
the floor because of the huge amount of money that is in this bill to 
fund the war in Iraq without any conditions, without any limitation on 
time spent there. I'm glad that we have something about no permanent 
bases, yes, but this is the first time that we will be sending a bill--
well, we sent it to the Senate with conditions and they struck it. We 
have no choice. This is not about a failure of this House of 
Representatives; it's about what we cannot get past the next body and 
onto the President's desk.

Mr. Speaker, about a week ago, I spoke at the opening of the 
groundbreaking for the Institute of Peace. I know that you have been 
involved in that over the years. And I said that day, on a warm June 
day like today, it was reminiscent of one 45 years ago when President 
John F. Kennedy delivered the commencement address at American 
University.

In the last summer of a life that ended far too soon, President 
Kennedy spoke of the need to seek peace even in the midst of the Cold 
War. He said, ''The United States, as the world knows, will never start 
a war,'' Kennedy told the crowd assembled. ''We shall be prepared if 
others wish it, we shall be alert to try to stop it, but we shall also 
do our part to build a world of peace where the weak are safe and the 
strong are just.'' That was President Kennedy's philosophy of his 
foreign policy.

Contrary to that policy, President Bush started a war based on a 
false


premise. He sent our troops into a situation that he didn't know what 
he was getting into. The philosopher Hannah Arendt once said, she 
observed that nations are driven by the endless flywheel of violence, 
believing that one last, one final violent gesture will bring peace. 
But each time they sow the seeds for more violence.

Five years later, we are still engaged in the war in Iraq, 2 years 
longer than we were in World War II, and that has come at a very great 
cost. The costs are clear, of course, and we all mourn 4,100 of our 
troops who have lost their lives in battle, tens of thousands of our 
troops injured, thousands of them permanently. I met with some of them 
with my colleagues, Mr. Dicks, Mr. Inslee and Mr. McDermott, at the 
Seattle VA Hospital last Friday. And before that, Mr. Murtha and I 
visited our troops in the hospital as well here in Washington, D.C.

Over Memorial Day, I visited our troops in Iraq with some of our 
colleagues. It was my sixth trip into the theater. And what they asked 
me is what they always ask: What's going to happen to us when we go 
home? And for a long time on those visits I didn't have an answer that 
I could be very, very pleased to tell them. But now, because of the 
leadership of Mr. Edwards, and others, we're able to say that when you 
come home, you will be met with the biggest increase in the Veterans 
Administration health budget in the 77-year history of the Veterans 
Administration, and that means in the history of our country, an even 
bigger investment this year.

And after tonight, in a bipartisan way, we can proudly say--and Mr. 
Young, who has done more than you? You have just been wonderful, and I 
salute you as well. We can proudly say to our troops, to our young 
student veterans, that when they come home, we will say thank you by 
sending them to college; $7 for every dollar spent on the GI Bill 
following World War II. We owe these troops nothing else.

Now let's go back to the cost of that war. We talked about those who 
lost their lives, we talked about those who are permanently injured. 
And it's such a sad story. The cost to our reputation in the world is 
enormous. The cost in dollars, the Heritage Foundation said $2.75 
trillion. The Heritage Foundation, that's their figure; nearly $3 
trillion projected to be the cost of this war.

And so it's hard to understand when we say to the President, we would 
like to insure 10 million children in America, and he says we can't 
afford it, so I vetoed the bill. And the Republicans stuck with him on 
that veto--not all, many voted in a bipartisan way. Forty days in Iraq, 
10 million children insured in America for 1 year. We can't afford it? 
$2.75 trillion, the cost of this war.

But what is worrisome--I know to Mr. Skelton, to Mr. Murtha, and I'm 
certain to Mr. Young, although he has not given me license to speak for 
him--is the cost of the military capability of our Nation, lives, 
limbs, reputation, dollars, opportunity costs at home. But this is 
about keeping the American people safe. That's what we take an oath of 
office to do, to provide for the common defense. And our ability to 
honor our oath of office to uphold the Constitution--in the preamble it 
says ''to provide for the common defense''--is greatly diminished 
because this war has diminished the capability of American military 
forces to protect our interests wherever they are threatened in the 
world.

So let us think and hope that this is the last time that there will 
ever be another dollar spent without constraints, without conditions, 
without direction. Why should we trust the same judgment that got us 
here in the first place in this war?

So while I'm pleased that we have some spirit of civility here 
tonight about coming to a conclusion on this bill to bring it to the 
floor, and I enthusiastically will vote for the domestic piece of this, 
I'm not urging anyone to do anything, I just want you to know why I 
would be voting ''no'' on the spending without constraints.

We owe our troops more than sending them into war on a false premise, 
without the equipment and training they need, without a plan for 
success, without a strategy to leave. This war has not made the region 
more stable, it has not made our country safer. It has undermined our 
capability to protect the American people. It should come to an end 
safely, honorably, responsibly, and soon.

Mr. OBEY, Mr. Speaker, I submit the following:


Explanatory Statement Submitted by Mr. Obey, Chairman of the House 

Committee on Appropriations, Regarding the Further Amendment of the 
 House of Representatives Relating to Supplemental Appropriations for 











 Fiscal Years 2008 and 2009




 Following is an explanation of the further amendment of the 


 House of Representatives (relating to supplemental 


 appropriations for fiscal years 2008 and 2009) to the Senate 


 amendment numbered 2 to the House amendment numbered 2 to the 


 Senate amendment to H.R. 2642, the Supplemental 


 Appropriations Act, 2008.



 In this statement, the provisions of the further House 


 amendment are generally referred to as ''the amended bill''.



 The further House amendment provides that, in lieu of the 


 matter proposed to be inserted by the Senate, language be 


 inserted providing supplemental appropriations for military 


 construction, international affairs, disaster assistance, and 


 other security-related and domestic needs, as well as 


 language providing for accountability in contracting, 


 improved veterans education benefits, temporary extended 


 unemployment compensation, and a moratorium on certain 


 Medicaid regulations. The amendment also strikes lines 1 


 through 3 on page 60 of the Senate engrossed amendment of 


 September 6, 2007.



 The text of the amendment is printed in the Rules Committee 


 report (H. Rpt. 110-720) to accompany House Resolution 1284.



 Unless otherwise noted, all appropriations in the amendment 


 are designated as emergency requirements and necessary to 


 meet emergency needs pursuant to section 204(a) of S. Con. 


 Res. 21 and section 301(b)(2) of S. Con. Res. 70, the 


 congressional budget resolutions for fiscal years 2008 and 


 2009.
