---
---

# None
## `a13167e90c9a1a0be76a640b550a16f4`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Meek. So now, all of a sudden the same program 
that they helped create is now all of a sudden socialism because the 
Democrats control the Congress. And I think it's an absolute shame, 
shameful, that we would have Republican Members of this Congress come 
out here for ideological reasons to try to score some political points 
with their base with the blatant disregard of providing health care for 
all these kids.

Now, you can argue all you want, but the bottom line, Mr. Murphy, is 
that there are millions of kids who will not get health care because 
the President all of a sudden found the courage. You know, we all went 
to school with people like this, they pick on the little kids. Well, 
the President has this big military budget. He won't shrink that. He's 
got all these tax cuts that the wealthiest people in our country are 
getting. He won't touch that. But he's going to be a big strong guy and 
come in and take it on the backs of these kids. Shameful, Mr. Speaker, 
shameful that he is willing to do this, and that the Republican 
Congress, the Republican Members of the House, a fringe group, enough 
to prevent a veto override, will help this President sustain this veto. 
I find it shameful that we can't take 41 days of spending in Iraq, Mr. 
Murphy, and help provide some health care for these kids.

And I say this because we all know that these kids need it. I was 
watching Chris Matthews, and Pat Buchanan was on. And Pat Buchanan 
said, I think these people need to pay for it themselves. Well, if they 
could pay for it themselves, we wouldn't be doing this. We would be 
doing something else.