---
---

# EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
## `a137afbe280946d9ce0ce6fd2d85a9f8`
`Mr. SKELTON — 9 September 2009`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, 8 years ago on September 11, 2001, this 
Chamber was empty, the Capitol was evacuated, the Pentagon was burning, 
the Twin Towers in New York lay crumpled, and almost 3,000 of our 
citizens were dead. We can never forget them, and we should never 
forget what we owe them.

Today we will once again mourn the families and those that are 
fallen, and we express our deepest sympathy to their friends and their 
loved ones. This is only right, but it's not enough. We owe it to the 
victims, to their loved ones, to the survivors, to ourselves to make 
sure that those who carried out this awful attack are brought to 
justice and to ensure that they can never again attack and kill our 
people here at home.

For too long the war in Afghanistan was the forgotten war. Only 
recently have we refocused our attention on the war on al Qaeda and the 
Taliban who sheltered them as they carried out their plot to murder 
thousands of Americans.

We can debate the best way to prosecute the fight against al Qaeda 
and the Taliban. For my part, the President has proposed a strategy for 
Afghanistan with which I agree. What we cannot do is walk away from the 
fight. We cannot allow the memory of this horrific event to be 
forgotten, and we cannot forget how important it is to bring those who 
caused it to justice.

Failing in Afghanistan brings clear and compelling dangers. Failing 
means the Taliban will once again control Afghanistan and permit their 
al Qaeda terrorist allies to operate from there. Failure means we let 
down those who died on 9/11. We can and we should consider how best to 
prosecute the war in Afghanistan. It's not a simple war, it's not an 
easy war. But for the first time, we have a real strategy. And for the 
first time, we are providing the resources needed for the fight. We 
have a new commander who is breathing new life into our effort, and now 
we must show that we have the resolve to give our men and women in 
uniform the time and resources they need to show progress in the fight 
against enemies who carried out this and supported the attacks of 9/11.

America was attacked on 9/11 by a ruthless, callous enemy. We cannot 
forget that. And we cannot walk away from the war in Afghanistan 
against them.