---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a13a6e6861b703a713c5384fc0e57db4`
`Mr. LARSON of Connecticut — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Thank you, Mr. Meeks, and also let me 
thank my colleagues across the aisle for the solemnity of the debate 
that has taken place over these last several days. I think it is so 
important to the constituents that we are sworn to serve, and they 
deserve to hear the voices that reside within the people's Chamber.

This debate, in so many ways, is an echo chamber for what Americans 
already know. They have found their voice and expressed it in several 
manners and several forms, most notably in last November's election, 
where they called for a new direction for this country, not the staying 
of the course that it is currently on.

It is long overdue then that the Congress find its voice as well. 
Past is prologue, and we must go back to June of 2002 when the 
President enunciated the Bush doctrine, the doctrine of preemption and 
unilateralism that has placed us in this situation that we have today 
in Iraq.

He was warned, most notably by people like Scowcroft, Eagleberger, 
Baker, and Colin Powell about the folly of this effort. It was not 
Kennedy or Berg or even Larson or other people that spoke out as 
eloquently as those former members of Bush the Elder's Cabinet.

I traveled with Jack Murtha in the buildup to the war, and we met 
with our ambassador in Saudi Arabia, Robert Jordan, who I said to him, 
Ambassador, you have a gathering storm here in Saudi Arabia, with all 
the tensions in the Middle East. And he said, Congressman, you are from 
New England. Gathering storm, he said? What we have here is the making 
of a perfect storm.



And if we unilaterally invade and attack this toothless tiger, Saddam 
Hussein, we will unwittingly accomplish what bin Laden failed to do: we 
will create a united Islamic jihad against the United States.

Professor Gram Ellison wrote that ''this occupation has diverted 
essential resources from the fight against al Qaeda, allowed the 
Taliban to regroup on Afghanistan, fostered neglect of the Iranian 
nuclear threat, undermined alliances critical to preventing terrorism, 
devastated America's standing with every country in Europe and 
destroyed it in the Muslim world.''

Instead of following the wisdom of Scowcroft and Eagleberger and 
Baker, Powell, this administration embraced Ahmed Chalabi with all the 
hubris and arrogance of staying the course.

And so we find our troops today in the midst of civil war, in the 
midst of sectarian, religious, and tribal conflicts that are more about 
settling old scores that seek revenge over the centuries than about 
creating a democracy. And it is into that caldron that we wish to send 
more troops, more troops that 87 percent of the Iraqi public says they 
want a time line for us to be out of there, and over 50 percent of them 
think that it is okay to kill Americans.

Our troops need leadership that is worthy of their sacrifice. It is 
important that this Congress on both sides of the aisle, as it has 
done, understands the difference between the war and the warriors.

I conduct hearings back in my district; I listen to what my 
constituents have to say. And, most earnestly, to those parents, those 
men and women who come to these hearings and talk about their children 
in harm's way: Carol Tripp of Bristol said it best, a woman with three 
of her sons and her


husband stationed in Iraq, who hasn't shared a holiday dinner with 
their entire family since 2001.

I define success by being able to look into their eyes and tell them 
that the best path forward is the safe, secure, and strategic 
redeployment of our troops so that our Army can regroup and restore 
itself and proceed after the people who took the towers down in 
systematic fashion to go after al Qaeda and continue to regroup.