# None
## `a144776c86d26c88de82f23c13d347b3`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR â€” 26 February 2008`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to discuss 
the state of our economy, the budget cuts proposed by this 
administration, and yes, the war in Iraq and the need to set our 
priorities straight in this country. Like my colleague from South 
Carolina, I wish to thank our troops. Like the Presiding Officer, I 
visited Iraq and saw firsthand the bravery of these troops everywhere I 
went. Of course, I was very focused on Minnesota troops. They would 
come up to me in cafeteria lines and airport tarmacs and never complain 
about a thing. They didn't complain about the heat or their equipment 
or their long tours of duties. Many of our Minnesota National Guard 
extended over and over and over again. They really only asked me to do 
one thing, and that was when I got home, that I call their moms and 
dads, their husbands and their wives, and tell them they were OK.

When I got home, I talked to their families. I think I called over 50 
moms and dads, husbands and wives. I heard a little bit different 
story. I heard stories of families waiting and waiting and waiting, 
with anxiety over jobs that might be lost or never gotten back. One of 
the moms I talked to when I went back in March--I left a message for 
her. A few months later, I called her again when her son had been 
killed. I met her.

I have to tell my colleagues, these troops, as my friend from South 
Carolina said, have done their duty. They deposed an evil dictator. 
They guaranteed free elections in Iraq. Now it is time for us to do our 
duty for them.

We all know there can be no purely military solution in Iraq. This 
has been agreed to by so many military commanders and experts and 
Members of this body on both sides that it is not really worth arguing 
about anymore. We all recognize that true stability in Iraq will only 
come through political and economic compromises between Iraq's main 
ethnic groups and that only the Iraqis themselves can reach these 
agreements. Given this, I believe our strategy should be focused on 
transitioning to Iraqi authority and bringing in other countries and 
that we cannot keep doing this alone.

I was listening to my friend from South Carolina speak so eloquently, 
and one of the things that struck me that he said was that this was 
priceless, and he meant this in the best of all ways. He said it was 
priceless. I just can't say this war has been priceless. After 4 years, 
5 years, over 3,600 American soldiers have been killed. Over 25,000 
have been wounded. We have been in this war now longer than World War 
II. Almost $450 billion--$450 billion has been spent. We cannot wait 
until next year to change our strategy.

The President is intent on leaving the current situation for the next 
administration to resolve. Unfortunately, our soldiers in the field 
don't have the luxury of simply running up the clock on this 
administration. We owe it to them to begin bringing our combat troops 
home. I think we all know we can't do this overnight. We know we are 
going to have troops remaining to guard our embassies and to train 
police and to act as special forces, but I do believe that if we want 
to push this Government to get its act together, the Iraqi Government, 
we have to send a clear message that we are not staying there 
indefinitely. So we owe it to our troops, but we also owe it to the 
people of this country. We can no longer continue to give the President 
the blank checks he keeps asking for. We must


ensure the safety and the well-being of our troops in the field, but 
funding must be conditioned on a plan for responsible redeployment of 
U.S. combat forces from Iraq.

Now, why is this so important to our own country and to our own 
future and to our own children? Well, as I said, the war in Iraq has 
already cost over $490 billion directly, and by some estimates it has 
cost the American people almost $1.5 trillion when factoring in all of 
the costs. For each month that passes, we spend another $12 billion on 
the war, and we cannot separate the President's spending in Iraq from 
the economic and the budgetary problems we face.

One of the things that has always really bothered me on behalf of the 
people whom I represent is that this administration never really 
adequately calculated the repercussions of this war. I think the troops 
in the field--and I will say one thing. Despite the clear disagreements 
on strategy for this war, there has been bipartisan agreement that our 
troops need to be treated with the kind of respect they deserve. When 
they signed up for war, there wasn't a waiting line. When they come 
home and need medical care and they need mental health care, they need 
to get their education benefits, they shouldn't be waiting. It is this 
Democratic Congress that took on this issue and looked at the facts. 
Why are all of these men and women coming up to me out in Minnesota and 
saying they couldn't get health care? Look at the facts. The Pentagon 
underestimated the number of troops coming home from Iraq and 
Afghanistan by four times the amount--four times more returning troops 
needed health care than they estimated. We put billions of dollars into 
that.

We are willing to rise to the occasion and say we are not going to 
make the same mistake we made after Vietnam. We are going to treat our 
troops with the respect they deserve when they come home. But again, 
when the administration made its plans for this war--a war I did not 
support from the beginning--when they made their plans, they did not 
anticipate the enormous costs.