# None
## `a146788c1a882b96e9a595c04b5deb9c`
`Mrs. BOXER — 10 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Madam President, I was interested to hear my friend from 
Oklahoma, the ranking member on my Environment and Public Works 
Committee, talk about how much the Republicans care about gas prices 
after they just tanked our effort to deal with them. It is 
extraordinary what we are seeing here, right before the eyes of the 
American people.

Last week they said ''no'' to global warming legislation. Global 
warming is real. The Senator from Oklahoma reminds me of the people who 
kept saying: No, the Earth is flat. No, cigarettes don't cause cancer. 
He is lining up with those people.

The vast majority of scientists tell us global warming is real. He 
bragged


about how he beat us last week. Let me take a look at that. He said it 
was a wonderful thing that happened on Friday, when the Senate didn't 
get 60 votes to continue the debate on global warming and address it. 
He said it was a wonderful thing. I want to say to the 89 percent of 
the American people, who believe global warming must be addressed, 
because it is a moral issue that is facing us, because we have to 
protect this planet for our grandkids, because we need to get off 
foreign oil, have alternatives to foreign gas--and yes, in my State it 
is well over $4--we have to address it. He is celebrating the fact that 
we fell short.

Let me tell you we fell short by only six votes. We fell short by six 
votes. We had 46 Democrats for dealing with global warming now, plus 8 
Republicans--54. We needed 60. He is celebrating.

We are going to be celebrating come November because we are going to 
have a President who is going to work with us on global warming 
legislation and we are going to have six more votes here in the Senate, 
I can predict. Because my friends on the other side of the aisle--with 
a few exceptions, very few--are fierce defenders of the status quo.

Let me repeat that. The leadership in the Republican Party and the 
vast majority of Republicans, save a handful, are fierce defenders of 
the status quo. They say no to global warming legislation which will 
get us off foreign oil, which will get us off big oil. They say no, 
today, to going after the speculators, going after big oil, making them 
disgorge some of that money so we can invest it in alternatives; going 
after OPEC and saying: If you are colluding, you are going to be held 
accountable.

They said: No, no, no. Yes, to the status quo; no to positive change 
for the American people.

They come down to the floor and they are happy about it. It is 
unbelievable to me.

The wonderful thing that did happen on Friday is we reached a high 
water mark. We reached 54 votes. The last vote on the global warming 
bill, it was 38.

The even more wonderful part is out of the people who were absent, 
who sent in letters who said they were with us, were the two 
Presidential candidates. So all that talk about celebrating the fact 
that we stopped global warming legislation is kind of a death rattle, 
in my opinion, for those people who do not believe they have to address 
this challenge of our generation.

I am looking at the young people here today, their beautiful faces. 
They deserve to have a good life in the future. I want to say to them 
today: You are here in an historic time because the window is closing 
for action. With global warming, if you don't act, you lose valuable 
time, because the carbon stays in the atmosphere for so long it becomes 
more difficult to get it out of the atmosphere.

Last week we came up six votes short even though we reached a high 
water mark on the bill. At the end of the day we now have a roadmap for 
change--46 Democrats voted yes to tackle global warming, 8 Republicans 
voted yes. What does that tell you about the two parties?

When I took the gavel in January after the Democrats took back this 
majority by only the slimmest of margins, I said I wanted to put global 
warming on the map because under the leadership of my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle we did nothing to address it. The President has 
basically--and we know this for sure--interfered with the scientists in 
his own administration and not allowed the facts to be told. So we had 
25 hearings.

The second thing I wanted to do is make it bipartisan. John Warner 
said, ''I am with you. I care about my grandkids. I care about national 
security.'' The Naval Academy did a very important study that this is 
going to be the No. 1 cause of wars in the future as we have desperate 
refugees running away from droughts and famine and flooding and all the 
rest, and rising sea levels. When John Warner came across, I knew I had 
accomplished that. He did it for me. He made it bipartisan.

Then we got the strong bill out of the committee, we improved it, we 
got it to the floor, and we knew it had a lot of work. We got a letter 
from 10 people who voted for it who said: Look, Senator, and Harry 
Reid, we need to work on it. We understand that is what we have to do 
when our next President says let's go, let's get a bill through. So I 
think it is appalling that my ranking member of the Environment 
Committee would come down here and celebrate the fact that we were not 
able to move forward on global warming legislation, and furthermore 
said it is not real. He brought that out again.

I do thank those who engaged in the debate, both pro and con. It was 
a landmark debate. I only regret that the Republicans filibustered and 
we had to take the bill off the floor because we could have gotten a 
very good bill. It was a very good bill to start with and we could have 
worked on it and made it even better.

But, come November, we will see whether I am right or wrong. I think 
I will be right. One of the reasons I am right, and I believe we will 
have Senators here who are going to be hospitable to global warming 
legislation, is because we also need Senators who are hospitable to 
doing something about gas prices.

This is an amazing chart. Since George Bush got into office--do we 
remember this? He and Dick Cheney were oil men. One of the reasons they 
urged for getting elected is: We know how to deal with the oil 
companies; leave it to us. We know how to deal with the Saudi Arabian 
princes; leave it to us. We will deal with it.

They dealt with it. There was a 250-percent increase in the price of 
gas--$3.94. This is old. It is now $4. This I used last week. It is 
already old; today it is $4. In my State it is about $4.40. You can't 
keep up with the increases in the price of gas. This is what we are 
facing.

So in the Senate today we said: All right, they said no to global 
warming legislation--which was a long-term answer to big oil.

What we would have done is we would have had a cap-and-trade system 
that would have put a price on carbon, gone between the free 
marketplace, and that would have led to trillions of dollars, I say to 
my friend, trillions of dollars in investments by the private sector, 
cellulosic fuel, automobiles that get 150 miles per gallon, electric 
cars, all the rest. That is the long-term solution pushing down demand. 
We all know that. Pushing down demand.

Now, the other side will say if you drill in a wildlife refuge it 
will solve your problems. No, it is false. Put aside that Dwight 
Eisenhower, a Republican President, set aside the Alaskan Wildlife 
Refuge and said this is a precious gift from God; set it aside. What 
are you going to do to God's creatures by drilling over there? Forget 
it.

Put it aside for the moment and talk about what you get. You get 6 
months' worth of oil. You cannot drill your way out of this. Someone 
said--I think it was Senator Menendez who made a great analogy. He 
said: Everybody says we are addicted to oil. Even our own President 
says we are addicted to oil. Let's say someone was addicted to drugs. 
Is the way to get them off drugs to give them 6 months' more worth of 
drugs? Does that help? No. No. No.

We need to figure out a way to get off of foreign oil, get away from 
big oil, because we know the developing nations are gobbling it up. And 
we also know we have done so little, so little to address the issue of 
energy efficiency, fuel technology. It is a sad thing. We have lost so 
much time.

Today at gas stations across the Nation, the American people are 
suffering. They are facing sticker shock. They are having to choose, 
choose between something they might buy at the store for dinner and 
filling up the tank. That is a fact. That is a fact.

I will never forget when Vice President Cheney first sat down for his 
closed-door meetings with oil executives and energy industry lobbyists, 
and we said: We want to know what you are talking about, Mr. Vice 
President. What is going on behind those closed doors?

And he said: Oh, I am working to make energy affordable.

You know what gas was? It was $1.50. That is when he sat down with 
his friends in oil companies. We cannot find out what they talked 
about, but I can tell you this: Whatever they talked about was good for 
them, was good for the oil companies, was good for big oil. Gas is 
$4.40 a gallon in many California locations. I have seen gas prices as 
high as $5 in my State. So we have secret meetings with Dick Cheney 
with


the energy people, and gas went up 250 percent.

Again, these are old numbers. It is even worse. Gas went up 82 cents 
since January--82 cents since January. Again, it is even more than that 
now. It is way more than that, close to 90 cents.

In every case, you see the Bush administration saying they are going 
to do something. They never did anything. A lot of talk, a lot of yack, 
a lot of visits with Saudi Arabia, a lot of kissing on the cheek with 
the princes, holding hands. We saw the picture. What happened? This. 
Straight up. Two oil men in the White House. Is it any wonder?

Many of us said at the time, other people said: It is terrific, two 
oil men at the White House. They will know how to deal with the oil 
companies. Well, they sure knew how to deal with the oil companies. The 
oil companies never had it so good. And my Republican friends right 
here, with few exceptions, have fallen all over themselves to give 
those very same companies huge tax breaks, even as they are making 
record profits.

Listen to this: Last year the oil companies pocketed $124 billion in 
profits, up from $29 billion in 2002. That means they have quadrupled 
their profits since 2002, four times. Let's think about it, America. 
What happened to your salary? Did your salary quadruple? I think we 
know the answer to that.

We know Americans are losing ground. The average family is losing 
ground, thousands of dollars in lost revenue. Their salaries are not 
keeping up with inflation. The price of gas is out of sight. It is hard 
for them to get health care. Health care costs are out of sight. Food 
prices are going up. Everything is going up--tuition.

But what do my friends on the other side say? They want to give oil 
companies these great big tax breaks. They did in 2004 and 2005. 
Believe it or not, they gave them tax breaks worth over $17 billion 
over the next decade. And these tax breaks are free and clear. We did 
not even say--they did not say in the legislation oil companies have to 
invest in renewables, improving infrastructure, increasing capacity. 
No. You know what they did with the money? They spent $185 billion on 
stock buybacks instead of investing in clean, alternative fuels or new 
refinery utilization.

And as my friend in the chair said today, they are spending more on 
public relations than the average family spends in a lifetime because 
they know, when the American people really understand this, what the 
American people will think. Have you seen those beautiful commercials 
by the oil companies? We really care. We are doing so much.

Do you think they are doing all of these wonderful things? No, most 
of the money is spent on buying back their stock.

Unchecked speculation. I have heard some experts say that about one-
third of the price of oil a barrel is due to speculation. We tried to 
pass a bill today that, first of all, said to the oil companies: That 
is the end of your break. You need to either invest your profits in the 
future, in other technologies, or give it back to us, and we will do it 
on behalf of the American people.

They said no. They will protect big oil until they have to pay the 
political price. Protect big oil, protect foreign oil. They protect 
foreign oil, OPEC. We said the Attorney General should be able to sue a 
foreign company or foreign country if they colluded on the price of 
oil. Oh, no, they could not do that to big oil either. They are in love 
with big oil over there. They are in love with foreign oil.


My people are saying: Enough is enough is enough is enough. It is no 
wonder that the American people want change, and they are going to get 
change. They are going to get it in November. They are going to bring 
it to us. They are going to bring us change.

The former oil men in the Bush administration have been uninterested 
in taking on the unchecked speculation. This vote reflects the 
administration. That is it. They all marched together.

Well, I think they are marching off a plank. The American people are 
smart and getting smarter every day. They know the pain they are 
feeling at the pump has a cost. They understand the speculation on 
futures. We address that. We address that in the legislation on which 
they voted no.

We said: You cannot take money and speculate on futures in an out-of-
town market, an out-of-country market. You have to have transparency. 
Oh, no, they do not want transparency. That would be bad for the oil 
companies.

If anyone ever says to you: There is no difference between Democrats 
and Republicans, look at the debate we had on global warming, look at 
the vote on global warming, and look at the vote we had today. There is 
an enormous difference. And it has to do with whose side you are on. In 
the case today, it was are you on the side of big oil and foreign oil 
or are you on the side of the American people? It is pretty clear.

You have to look at Iraq. We have been in Iraq more than 5 long 
years. Do you remember what President Bush said when he went in? He 
said Iraqi oil would pay for the reconstruction of Iraq. He did. And 
look at what we have spent on this war. We are going broke on this war. 
We are into it longer than we were in World War II.

We are looking at trillions of dollars at the end of the day in the 
actual cost of the war, the cost of the reconstruction, the cost of 
taking care of our beautiful, brave, courageous, and incomparable men 
and women who are coming home in desperate shape.

What happened to George Bush's promise? They stand up, we stand down. 
Well, I think they are standing up. Why are we not standing down? And 
why did the oil not work out? Why were we not able to pay for 
reconstruction from the price of the oil?

It is very simple: We have had a destabilization in the region 
because of the war, and that contributed to these high oil prices. What 
a disaster--a disaster, a disaster, a disaster.

We would have today, had we had the opportunity to move forward on 
our legislation, not only sent a signal which could have done 
something, we could have investigated these companies for the kinds of 
illegal actions I believe some of them are taking. We could have gone 
after companies and countries for collusion. We could have gone after 
these excess profits and said: Look, we want everyone to do well, but 
let's have some fairness. I will tell you, the American people are not 
going to stand for it.

So we have had a very interesting few days. And my friend, the 
ranking member from Oklahoma, says how he is so excited. Friday was his 
best day--his best day--his best day--when a majority of the Senate 
said, yes, let's take up global warming legislation, and he opposed it.

His days are numbered on this point. All we need is six more Senators 
who are different than the many on the other side, and we are going to 
get that. People want this. We know 89 percent of the people want us to 
address global warming.

When we do it in the right way, we will send a signal that America is 
ready to lead. America is ready to work with the world so that we get 
off of foreign oil. We are not dependent on countries we do not want to 
be dependent on; we are not dependent on big companies that can care 
less about our families. They do not care one whit about our families. 
The executives are making millions and millions and millions of dollars 
every year on salaries, on bonuses, on expense accounts.

Well, the average family in America is struggling. So I hope the 
American people are watching. Last week we had a monumental vote, the 
high water mark. But they stopped us. Today, we had a good vote also, 
but they stopped us. They stopped us from doing anything about gas 
prices, and their answer is drill in a wildlife reserve which, at most, 
gives us 6 months of oil, and, by the way, destroys a gift from God 
that a Republican President said is not an answer.

That is feeding the addiction. Are there places in America we could 
drill? Yes, there are. But what we need is a whole different long-term 
strategy. And that long-term strategy and fighting global warming will 
throw us off this dependance. That will make us a leader in the world. 
That will create green jobs, technologies we can export, and we will 
have an economic renaissance in the Nation.

We will be the leader the world again when it comes to the 
environment and the good-paying jobs. In the short


term, we need to go after the speculators like we wanted to do today. 
We need to go after companies and countries who are colluding. These 
are the things we need to do.

We were ready, willing, and able to do it today. In closing I will 
say this: Whose side are you on? That is a question that every one of 
us has to ask ourselves. It ought to be: I am on the side of the 
American people, of America's families, of America's middle class, who 
is getting squeezed.

It ought not be: I am on the side of big oil. And my Republican 
friends on the other side again, on the vote last week and this vote, 
have chosen sides. And the American people will decide who they want to 
have leading the country.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.