---
---

# AMERICAN JOBS AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT OF 2010
## `a1477c0146397671c4b808c5b9460628`
`Mr. DORGAN — 30 June 2010`

---


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I support the comments of and the 
legislation by the Senator from Louisiana. I think it makes a great 
deal of sense to strengthen small businesses. They are, after all, the 
job generators in this country. So I appreciated her comments. We don't 
always agree on every issue around here, but I am a strong supporter of 
her work as chairman of the Small Business Committee and of the 
legislation she has described.

Mr. President, I wanted to come to the Senate floor briefly today 
because we are talking about extending unemployment compensation, 
unemployment benefits, to people who are out of work, and we are having 
a very difficult time doing that. These benefits are for people who 
worked on payrolls. They actually paid a little of their money in taxes 
to support an unemployment fund so if they lost their jobs they would 
be able to get some unemployment help. But in order to do that, this 
has to be extended by the Senate, and it has become increasingly 
difficult to extend unemployment compensation to those who are out of 
work.

I find that kind of inexplicable because for the folks at the top of 
the economic ladder, there is no problem in their getting what they 
want out of this Chamber. I noticed in the last 24 hours or so that one 
of my colleagues objected to something that was in the financial reform 
bill. He said: Well, you are going to impose a fee on the biggest 
banks. He said: I won't accept that. He said: If you do that, I won't 
vote for the bill. The biggest banks in the country shouldn't have to 
pay this fee.

I was thinking to myself: Why not? They drove the country into the 
ditch. They are the ones involved in the cesspool of greed, many of 
them, trading things on things they will get from people who never had 
it and making money on both sides, which created an


unbelievable orgy of speculation that ran the country right into the 
ditch. There is nothing wrong, it seems to me, with their having to pay 
a fee here or there.

But one of our colleagues said: I won't support that. All of a 
sudden, the conference committee got back together and said: How can we 
fluff up your pillow, big guy? Can we give you an aspirin, put you to 
sleep?

If you are at the top of this economic ladder in this Chamber, you 
can do just fine because somebody will make you comfortable. But what 
about the people at the bottom? What about the person who came home 
from work after 18 years on the job and said: Honey, I lost my job 
today. And they can't find another job? What about that family and that 
person? What about extending unemployment help for that person?

Things never change. Here is what Will Rogers said many years ago. He 
said:




 The unemployed here ain't eating regular, but we will get 


 around to them as soon as everybody else gets fixed up OK.


Boy, if there was ever a description of the way things work these 
days, this is it. Old Will Rogers. And this description is as old as 
eight or nine decades, isn't it? The unemployed here ain't eating 
regular, but we don't have time yet. We will get to them after 
everybody else gets taken care of. And who gets taken care of first? 
The folks at the top of the economic ladder.

I wonder, I just wonder what would happen with a bill to extend 
unemployment benefits if the only Americans who were unemployed were 
investment bankers? Do you think that wouldn't have been passed in a 
nanosecond, just like that? But, no, the unemployed are people named 
Smith and Jones and Adams and Johnson. They are the ones somehow at the 
bottom of the economic ladder who don't seem to matter to some people.

My hope is this Congress will have the good sense to do the right 
thing. During tough times, we have something called a safety net--that 
is the unemployment compensation--that helps people when they are laid 
off, when they are out of work and are having trouble and can't find 
another job. It is our responsibility to extend that. That is what we 
should be doing.

As Will Rogers said: Everybody else gets help. In the last 24 hours, 
the folks at the top of the economic ladder got help--the biggest banks 
in the country. Why? Because somebody said they needed some comfort--a 
bedtime story, a fluffed pillow, an aspirin, some comfort. They got 
their comfort. But we are still waiting to see if the people who lost 
their jobs and who are at the bottom of the economic ladder will get 
the help they were promised. I hope so. We will have a vote on that and 
we will soon see.
















 Energy Policy


Mr. President, I wanted to mention that yesterday a group of us went 
down to meet with the President on the subject of energy, and following 
that meeting a number of my colleagues spoke to the press. I did not. 
But because there were stories today about the representation of that 
meeting with the President, I thought I would at least offer my notion 
of what that meeting meant and what the consequences of it will or 
should be.

The meeting with the President, calling a number of Republicans and 
Democrats--about 10 or 12 of us--down to the White House, was to talk 
about energy and to simply try to evaluate what is achievable, what 
should be done with respect to energy. We know two things are making 
this country vulnerable: No. 1, we are way too dependent on foreign 
oil. We use one-fourth of the oil that is pulled out of this planet 
every morning. Every day we use one-fourth in this little place called 
the United States. Yet over 60 percent of that which we use comes from 
other countries. That leaves us far too vulnerable to others, and, by 
the way, some of whom are in very troubled parts of the world. We are 
far too vulnerable to others for our energy supplies. That is a fact.

The second something that is happening to this planet is called 
climate change. We don't necessarily know exactly what that is, but the 
wide consensus of scientists tells us we need to be concerned about it 
and we need to be taking actions to deal with it.

I appreciate the President's leadership on these issues and saying we 
need to move. We need to do some things here. But the discussion was, 
What is achievable?

What is achievable, in my judgment, from listening and participating 
in that meeting, is what I have always believed was achievable. The 
only thing achievable is that which will get 60 votes to come from the 
calendar of the Senate to the floor because it takes 60 votes on a 
motion to proceed to consider anything. I believe the only thing that 
can get 60 votes, based on not only the meeting yesterday but other 
discussions I have had, would be to bring the bill passed by the Energy 
Committee, which was bipartisan, to the floor of the Senate. That does 
not exclude anything else. That does not exclude anybody from offering 
climate change amendments, comprehensive climate change amendments. But 
we will never get to the floor unless we get to the floor with 
something that can get 60 votes, and I am convinced the only thing that 
can achieve that is the bipartisan Energy bill out of the committee.


The Energy bill itself is a bill that does reduce carbon. It does all 
the things I think it should do. Yes, it says we are going to continue 
to use the fossil energy--coal, oil, natural gas--but we are going to 
use that in a different way. We are going to decarbonize and take great 
pains to protect the planet as we do. We are going to build some 
nuclear. We are going to maximize renewables--solar and wind energy. We 
are going to do the biofuels, including biodiesel, ethanol, and 
geothermal. All of these sources of energy are important to our 
country's future.

All of these areas--conservation, including retrofitting buildings; 
the first ever renewable electric standard; building an interstate 
highway of transmission capability; high-voltage transmission so you 
can collect energy where the wind blows and the Sun shines and put it 
on a wire and send it to where it is needed in the load centers--all of 
that was part of the bill that was passed out of the Energy Committee 1 
year ago this month. That is, in my judgment, what is achievable to get 
to the floor of the Senate, and then it is open for amendments. That 
does not exclude, by the way, any other amendments people wish to offer 
that can achieve the 60 votes, once it is on the floor, that can 
address climate change.

As I said before, there is something to climate change, as far as I 
am concerned. We would be fools not to recognize and fools not to 
address it. The question is not whether; it is when and how.

I said before that I would support capping carbon and I would support 
pricing carbon. I also said I will not support what is called cap and 
trade because I do not intend to give Wall Street a trillion-dollar 
carbon securities market to trade so they can tell us what the cost of 
our energy is going to be. But that aside, I really think it is 
important that we not end this year without doing an energy bill that 
advances this country's energy and national security.

Let me mention one additional item very quickly; that is, yesterday 
there was a hearing in the Armed Services Committee with respect to the 
nomination of General Petraeus to assume command in Afghanistan. I am 
not going to speak at length about this. I fully support General 
Petraeus and this nomination. I think the President has made an 
excellent choice. By the way, I don't think he had much choice but to 
replace General McChrystal, and replacing him with General Petraeus 
makes a great deal of sense to me.

I wish to say with respect to Afghanistan that I think it is long 
past the time for us to have a very significant discussion about 
Afghanistan. The President has indicated the potential withdrawal date 
beginning on July 1 of next year, 2011. But I think that even before 
that, we need to have a discussion in this country about what our role 
is in Afghanistan. What, in fact, is victory in Afghanistan? Are we 
fighting al-Qaida? Are we fighting terrorists in Afghanistan or are we 
fighting insurgents in Afghanistan? What about the Afghanistan 
Government and President Karzai? What is achievable?

Every day, we are sending young men and women to fight in a war, and 
many--I should not say ''many''--a number of them will lose their 
lives. We go on almost ''out of sight out of


mind,'' not thinking about it, not debating it nearly enough. What is 
it we are achieving? We have been at war for nearly 8 years, spending a 
great deal of money--lost treasure and lost lives. By the way, with 
respect to treasure, not a penny of it has been paid for.

I think it is time for us to have a good discussion in this country 
about what are we doing? How long will we do it? What is victory? What 
is achievable? Should we, in fact, be engaged in a long-term war 
against insurgents in that country? Where is al-Qaida? We know where it 
is in part: northern Pakistan. Where is al-Qaida? What is this--a war 
against terror or is it a war against insurgents?

My own view is that I think it is highly unlikely, no matter how long 
this country is in Afghanistan, that we will ever be successful in the 
rural tribal lands of Afghanistan. But my hope and my desire is to want 
the best for this country. I think the best will be achieved if we have 
a thoughtful, good, full, complete discussion as a nation about what 
our objectives are, how we achieve those objectives, and when, at last, 
at long, long last, we can bring troops home and be in a position where 
we are not saying America at this point is at war. We need to be 
addressing the terrorist threat across this planet, and that will take 
us a long while, but I think that is a very different circumstance than 
being engaged in the fight in Afghanistan as it currently exists.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.