---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `a159ab11fd8ce992933d5e1ea2adf97d`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Mr. Speaker, I hope today, as we take this vote, that 
people will understand really what is at stake here.

I have heard a lot of discussion today, and some Members are going to 
go back home and say, well, I voted for this bill and against the 
troops because I brought home some things for the people in my 
district.

But today this vote is not about bringing home bacon for the people 
in your district. It is about American security.

My family was in New York on 9/11, and my daughter-in-law and her 
mother were supposed to be at the World Trade Center on 9/11. So when I 
take this vote this afternoon or at noon, whenever we have this, let me 
tell you the reason why Randy Neugebauer is going to be voting ''no.'' 
Because I am looking forward, not at what we are doing today and what 
is going to, who is going to be able to take what projects home, but I 
am looking forward to the security of America. I am looking into the 
eyes of my grandsons Nathan and Noah and saying, Nathan and Noah, I 
didn't leave America safe and secure for you.

This is about security. 9/11 is a real event. America was attacked. 
We have been attacked before. We know this enemy is going to come back 
and attack us again.

This bill, this vote, is about keeping America safe. So when Members 
go home and brag about their vote on this, I hope that they go home and 
brag about the fact that they cast a vote that will ensure a safe and 
secure America because, you see, if you take all of these projects 
home, and there is no security in America, there is no America.

I urge my colleagues not to vote for this bill.

I rise today in strong support of our troops and their mission in 
Iraq.

Ten days ago, I returned from my third trip to Iraq. From the 
generals to the privates, the message I heard from our troops in Iraq 
was ''let us do our job so we can win.'' And that is precisely what we 
should be doing here today.

Today, we should be working to provide our military with the tools 
and resources needed to attain victory . . .

Today, we should be showing our troops that we are behind them 100 
percent . . . And today, we should be showing the world that America 
has the resolve to stand up to terrorist threats even when the going 
gets tough.

Instead, this ill-advised legislation does just the opposite. By 
putting restrictions on our military commanders and the President . . . 
and setting a firm timeline and final date for withdrawal, this bill 
undermines the war effort, sends the wrong message to our troops, and 
telegraphs our war strategy to the enemy.

Our Constitution is clear in that it places the responsibility for 
conducting the war in the hands of a single Commander-in-Chief, not 
Congress. Our Founding Fathers wisely understood that having 535 
politicians in Washington attempt to micromanage a war is a recipe for 
disaster.

I am further disappointed that the majority has jeopardized the 
success of the drought relief package for farmers and ranchers.

I strongly support drought relief and have been calling for federal 
assistance since last summer. However, as much as I know producers in 
my district support disaster assistance, I cannot in good conscience 
support this supplemental because of the flawed military strategy that 
the majority is pursuing in this bill.

