# JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE AND TERRORISM ACT
## `a15db163b15e2b1f77a8100838ae810c`
`Mr. ISSA â€” 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. ISSA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this piece of legislation. I was 
not aware of it in its earliest authorship. I became aware of it, in 
addition to the issue which I was aware of, only when it began to move 
toward our committee. As I looked at both the legislation and those 
affected, who had worked so valiantly for 17 years to try to bring 
justice to an unjust occurrence in the history of Iraq, I discovered 
that we had a large group of men and women who had been used as human 
shields, a relatively small group of people who had been tortured at 
Saddam's hands, Americans.

But what I also discovered was that these people had no other way to 
focus the injustice of what had happened to them than by seeking a 
remedy in the courts, and that had been denied them for so long. Now 
they have that remedy from the courts, and they're being denied the 
opportunity to avail themselves of it.

Mr. Speaker, if this were just about money, I wouldn't be standing 
here. This is not. This is about a much larger cause. Throughout our 
history, we have endeavored to compensate our men and women when we 
send them to war. We've endeavored to compensate them when they're 
prisoners of war, but we will never be able to compensate them for the 
torture that they've received at the hands of barbarians.

The very barbarian who ordered this misconduct, Saddam Hussein, has 
been executed by the new government of Iraq. The new government of Iraq 
every day is seeking to reenter the world of justice and civilized 
nations. They're doing so in a myriad of ways, including settling the 
wrongful acts of the Saddam regime. This is no different.

The amendments that I asked for, and on a bipartisan way were 
granted, in the Judiciary Committee sought to make it clear America 
wants no compensation from the new Iraq government unless it is 
consistent with other compensation for similar acts of the Saddam 
Hussein regime. As Mr. Scott has already said, the administration of 
Iraq is making those efforts today, and I know they will negotiate in 
good faith with the victims of torture if, in fact, they have standing 
to do so.

That's why we're working on a bipartisan basis to grant the President 
the ability, if there are not similar settlements, to withhold this 
capability until or unless there are. I don't want this to be about 
every past war, but it wouldn't be fair to ask for this if we hadn't 
previously seen Libya make settlements finally but only after the State 
Department had withdrawn their objections.

And to most people here on the House floor, World War II is but a 
memory or a piece of history they've read about. The men and women who 
were taken at Bataan and other places were tortured. Most of them died. 
Then, too, we felt that we shouldn't burden the new Japanese Government 
with the sins of the past government. I think that's a bad precedent.

I believe that the making whole of people for whom you have done more


than just conduct war is, in fact, the responsibility on an ongoing 
basis of a government if they have the ability and certainly if they 
grant similar compensation to people from other countries or, in the 
case of Japan, Libya and post-Saddam Iraq, if they grant money damages 
to companies who often lost nothing but money.

So, Mr. Speaker, I'm going to support this legislation 
wholeheartedly. I know my Republican colleagues will. I note that this 
is, in fact, a good message to the administration to facilitate the 
settlement rather than to stand aside on it.

Mr. Speaker, many members of our armed forces faced horrible abuse 
and torture at the hands of Iraq's former dictator, Saddam Hussein, 
during the first Gulf War. We owe those members of the armed forces not 
only our sympathy, but our deepest thanks for enduring immense pain and 
suffering for a larger cause that helped keep all of us safe here at 
home. We also owe those members of the armed forces justice. And that's 
why we're here today to pass H.R. 5167, the Justice for Victims of 
Torture and Terrorism Act.

In the closing hours before the most recent House recess, I was very 
pleased to see the House, and the Senate, send legislation to the 
President that statutorily approved an agreement that was reached 
between the State Department and Libya regarding the compensation of 
Americans injured by Libyan-sponsored terrorism. That legislation was 
passed by both bodies under unanimous consent. It not only approved the 
negotiated agreement, which provides for hundreds of millions of 
dollars in compensation, but it also protected the agreement from being 
undone by lawyers and judges who would have otherwise interfered with 
its implementation.

The agreement with Libya shows that State-to-State negotiations for 
the compensation of victims of terrorism can work. It is a far more 
effective means of compensating victims than lawsuits, as domestic 
court judgments are always difficult to enforce, and foreign entities 
have many ways of moving their funds offshore to avoid collection. 
Negotiations worked to provide fair compensation for the victims of 
Libya, and they can work to provide fair compensation to the victims of 
the torture and terrorism perpetrated by Saddam Hussein's former 
regime.

I was very pleased to have been able to craft a bill with Chairman 
Conyers that not only facilitates, but encourages, State-to-State 
negotiations with the new democracy in Iraq that is the surest means of 
providing ultimate compensation for deserving victims. An amendment I 
offered at committee with Chairman Conyers, and which is now part of 
this bill, provides that the negotiations process will be allowed to 
continue as long as ''the President has certified to the Congress . . . 
that . . . negotiations are ongoing with the Government of Iraq to 
settle the claims in the [covered] cases . . . and the President 
believes that those negotiations are being conducted in good faith and 
could lead to a satisfactory settlement of those claims . . .''

Under this provision, the President must, on a regular basis, provide 
Congress with a status report attesting to the continuing good faith 
negotiations between the parties, and to the prospect that those 
negotiations could lead to a satisfactory settlement. That provision is 
necessary to help balance several worthy goals.

One of those goals is the maintaining of a stable, free, and 
democratic Iraq that will help ensure horrors the likes of which were 
seen under Saddam Hussein will not be seen again. To that end, earlier 
in this Congress, Congress passed H.R. 4986, which authorized the 
President to waive lawsuits against the new democracy in Iraq if the 
President determined that the waiver is in the national security 
interest of the United States; that the waiver will promote the 
reconstruction of, the consolidation of democracy in, and the relations 
of the United States with, Iraq; and that Iraq continues to be a 
reliable ally of the United States and partner in combating acts of 
international terrorism. On the day the President signed that provision 
into law, he signed a waiver and issued a statement justifying the 
exercise of the waiver authority.

But H.R. 4986 also included a Sense of Congress that provides as 
follows:

''[T]he President, acting through the Secretary of State, should work 
with the Government of Iraq on a state-to-state basis to ensure 
compensation for any meritorious claims based on terrorist acts 
committed by the Saddam Hussein regime against individuals who were 
United States nationals or members of the United States Armed Forces at 
the time of those terrorist acts and whose claims cannot be addressed 
in courts in the United States due to the exercise of the waiver 
authority.''

It is now time to provide the statutory requirements necessary to 
implement that Sense of Congress. We do that here today by passing H.R. 
5167, which gives our policy of encouraging good faith negotiations to 
provide fair and tangible compensation to victims of torture the force 
of statutory law. I urge all my colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, I would reserve the balance of my time while again 
urging support for the bill.