---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `a160d201f261921d305359d19933d2d0`
`Mr. BIDEN — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, what I wish to do at this moment is address 
one of the arguments I have heard many of my colleagues make over the 
past 2 days of this debate. The argument I have heard when I was on the 
floor yesterday, and again I have heard it today, is that the joint 
resolution we are debating is an effort to micromanage the war by 
focusing the mission of U.S. Armed Forces on training Iraqis, denying 
terrorists a safe haven in Iraq, and force protection.

If you listen to my colleagues who oppose this, you hear them recount 
that as if somehow that is exceeding the power of the people to speak, 
through their Congress, as to what role American military forces are 
permitted to play. Many of my colleagues on the other side go on to 
argue we are somehow overstepping our constitutional boundaries in 
defining the purpose for which U.S. forces can be used in Iraq.

Well, that argument, I respectfully suggest, is dead wrong. Defining 
the overall mission of U.S. troops is entirely within the power of the 
Congress under the U.S. Constitution. Indeed, not doing so would be an 
abdication of our fundamental duty under the Constitution, which 
clearly manifests war power in the hands of the Congress.

Now let me give you a few illustrations, if I may. In 2002, when we 
voted to authorize the use of force against Iraq, we defined the 
purpose. We defined the purpose for which the President was permitted 
to use American forces against Iraq. It was to defend the national 
security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by 
Iraq, and, further, to enforce all relevant U.N. Security Council 
resolutions regarding Iraq.

During the course of the negotiations on that resolution, in which I 
was deeply involved, Congress made it clear, at least on this side--as 
one of the several people speaking for the Democrats at the time in the 
Senate--we specifically and clearly rejected the Bush administration's 
initial proposal for using force in Iraq. President Bush sought what I 
believe to be, and the majority of the Senate eventually did, an overly 
broad authority to use force: to restore international peace and 
security in the region.

I read that at the time as a grant of authority to the President that 
far exceeded what arguably was necessary at all in Iraq. The function 
of our military force was not to restore international peace and 
security in the region. We struck that and said: The use


of force is to defend the national security of the United States 
against a continuing threat from Iraq, not the region; not the region.

After the President's attempted overreach here, we narrowed the 
geographic scope of the authority the Congress, under the Constitution, 
was willing to grant the President, and we narrowed the purpose for 
which he was allowed to use force. We did two things. We not only said, 
Mr. President, this is not about the region. You can only use force, if 
necessary, dealing with Iraq being a threat to the United States.

I remind everybody what we were being told at the time. We were being 
told by the Vice President that Iraq had reconstituted its nuclear 
program. Simply not true. It was not true when he stated it. Our 
intelligence community not only said he did not reconstitute the 
nuclear program, it said he had no nuclear program. That is not what we 
were told.

So we gave him authority, I remind everyone, to negotiate at the 
United Nations, to keep the pressure of the world on Iraq, to bring 
back the U.N. people, to determine what nuclear program or weapons of 
mass destruction he had, to get the inspectors back in, and to 
negotiate to do that, because at the time the argument taking place in 
the world was, was the U.S. embargo, was the world embargo, were the 
U.N. inspectors causing pain for innocent Iraqis?

Do you remember how many times we heard the argument that the reason 
why there was not enough medicine, the reason why children were dying, 
the reason why they did not have enough food, was because of this awful 
thing the United States was leading, the embargo on Iraq, the Food for 
Oil Program?

So to put this in context so everybody remembers, there were a lot of 
us on the floor willing to give deference to the President, who we 
thought was responsible in the exercise of power at the time, because 
he appeared responsible immediately after 9/11; he proceeded correctly 
relative to al-Qaida and the Taliban. He did not go off willy-nilly and 
start bombing people. He built the case. He sent his envoys all over 
the world. He made a compelling case for the right for us to invade 
Afghanistan. He even went so far as to worry about whether the Arab 
street would rise up if we attacked Muslims in Afghanistan. He engaged 
in public diplomacy. He did a fine job.

That was the context in which we gave him this power. But even then, 
as much as he had done well relative to Afghanistan at the time, we 
quite frankly did not trust him or any President to have this broad 
reach of authority which he asked for, which was to maintain peace, 
international peace and security in the region.

So we cut back the authority we gave him to negotiate at the U.N. 
Remember what he tried to do. He came and made the argument: There has 
to be a demonstration that all of the Nation support him in that we 
must keep pressure on Saddam. All Democrats and Republicans support 
him. That was the argument made to us. He did not come up here and make 
the argument to the Foreign Relations Committee, the Armed Services 
Committee: We need to be able to attack. He argued we needed to be able 
to give him the moral authority to go to the United Nations and keep 
the pressure on, because the French were wavering, the Europeans were 
wavering, some Arab countries were wavering. And then as time went on, 
he built this argument about they reconstituted their nuclear weapons 
and the like. But even then we did not give him the authority he asked 
for.

Why am I dwelling on this? Well, we made a clear judgment as a Senate 
and as a House, as a Congress, that he did not have the geographic 
scope for the extended purpose he wanted. We said: Here is your writ, 
Mr. President. Here is the region you are allowed to, if need be, use 
force--in this constrained area called Iraq. Because you are telling 
us, Mr. President, it is a threat to the United States of America, not 
a threat to the region, it is a threat to the United States of America. 
So you have the authority to deal with that, if necessary.

Secondly, even within Iraq, you can only use the force to enforce all 
relevant U.N. Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq. If memory 
serves me, there were 16, including resolutions relating to weapons of 
mass destruction.

So that was the rationale. We severely limited the authority he 
wanted because we thought it was an overreach. Now we know there were 
no weapons of mass destruction. Now we know--I will speak and say what 
I believe--hopefully the Intelligence Committee will show--not only did 
we have bad intelligence, but the good intelligence we had was misused 
by the administration, in my opinion. We will find out whether that 
turns out to be true.

In 2002, when we offered the authorization to use force, we defined 
the purpose. So I ask those who argue that we are now overstepping our 
bounds with this resolution, did we overstep our bounds in 2002 when we 
authorized the use of force against Iraq, when we limited what the 
President wanted to do? If, in fact, we do not have the constitutional 
authority today to limit what the President wants to do, how did we 
have the authority to do it in 2002? As I said, what is the rationale 
for the continued authority under the 2002 resolution? There are no 
weapons of mass destruction. All the U.N. resolutions are in 
compliance. And nobody argues the Iraqi Government is a threat to the 
United States of America. Are they going to invade us?

To those who have a problem with the mission we defined in this joint 
resolution before the Senate, I also say, listen to Prime Minister Tony 
Blair in announcing last month the redeployment of British forces from 
Iraq. Last month the mission the British Government assigned to those 
Brits who will remain in Iraq is precisely what we prescribed in our 
resolution. The new mission of the British forces in Iraq is the 
following: to transfer responsibility to the Iraqis; to train and 
support Iraqi forces; to help secure the border and supply routes; and 
to conduct operations against extremist groups, i.e., Al-Qaida. It is 
not to fight in the Iraqi civil war. It is not to be in the lead role 
in security operations in Basra, where they had authority, or in 
Baghdad, where they did not. In short, with the exception of denying 
terrorists sanctuary and training of Iraqis, the British forces are 
moving from the driver's seat to the backseat. This resolution proposes 
that very transition for our forces in Iraq.

So I ask again, rhetorically, does the Vice President think Prime 
Minister Blair's announcement of a ''redeployment,'' as the Vice 
President said, ''validates the al-Qaida strategy''? That is what he is 
accusing the Congress of. That is what he accuses me and Carl Levin of 
when we came up with this idea, that is now a leadership amendment; we 
are validating al-Qaida's strategy.

Are the British validating al-Qaida's strategy? Is he saying Tony 
Blair is validating Osama bin Laden? It is ridiculous. It is a 
ridiculous argument. It flies in the face of the facts. It comes down 
to this: Do we want American troops fighting an Iraqi civil war? Is 
that what we want these troops for? Is that why we sent them? Do you 
think, when we voted back in 2002, if we knew there were no weapons of 
mass destruction, if Saddam were gone, if they were in compliance with 
other U.N. resolutions, but if there were a raging civil war, do you 
think we would have voted on the floor of this body to send 150,000, 
160,000, 170,000, 180,000 American troops to Iraq to help them settle 
their civil war? What do you think? I don't think so. We might have 
sent troops to Jordan. We might have done what we are trying now in 
Amman and the emirates. We might have beefed up Turkey. We might have 
accepted to go after al-Qaida sites. But I doubt very much we would 
vote now to get in the midst of a self-sustaining cycle of sectarian 
violence, which is what it is. If you want American troops fighting a 
civil war in Iraq, if you want that, then vote against this resolution, 
do not vote for it. Do not vote for it.

You say that is not fair; we are not engaged in fighting in a civil 
war. Has anybody asked themselves the rhetorical question: Why is it 
that Sadr, who has been responsible for killing a lot of Americans, and 
his Mahdi army, which has been responsible for killing a lot of 
Americans, why is it that the Shia-led Mahdi army, particularly in Sadr 
City, has taken off their uniforms, hidden their weapons, and as of 
yesterday--I have not checked today--there were rumors that Sadr is no 
longer in Iraq?


Maybe he is back now. We do not know for sure where he is. Why is it 
that they took down the blockade? Is it because all of a sudden they 
turned peace loving?

I respectfully suggest, because inadvertently the 17,500 troops we 
are surging into the middle of Baghdad, we are surging them into 20-
some neighborhoods that are Sunni.

They are bad guys, these former Saddamists, these former Baathists--
this insurgency--who were referred to until recently by the Secretary 
of Defense as ''a bunch of dead enders.'' I respectfully suggest the 
reason all of a sudden the Shia in Sadr City are lying low is because 
they are very happy the United States is doing their job for them, 
killing their enemy, killing the bad guys who are Sunnis. Does anybody 
think if we succeed in that mission that all of a sudden we are not 
going to see all those weapons come out of hiding in Sadr City? Does 
anybody think that all of a sudden it is going to be safe for Americans 
in that region? Does anybody think the uniforms aren't going to come 
back on and the roadblocks aren't going to go back up? These folks 
aren't dumb. It is not our purpose, but the effect is, we are engaged 
in this civil war.

The question is, What is the plan to responsibly end our 
participation in this war without leaving behind chaos, without having 
traded a dictator for chaos, without having left behind a cycle of 
self-sustaining sectarian violence that metastasizes in the 
fragmentation of Iraq and metastasizes in the region--Turkey, Iran, 
Syria, Saudi Arabia? What is the answer?

So far, I don't hear a plan. Notice, by the way, now the surge is 
really getting bumped up, as some of us predicted on this floor when he 
announced the surge and predicted in our committee, 17,000 people to 
22,500, whatever the actual number was initially. Now they are saying 
they are going to need 30,000 people for the surge. Why? Because it is 
like squeezing a water balloon. The bad guys have left this area in 
part, and they have now gone to the province directly outside of 
Baghdad.

General Keane is a very bright fellow, an honest guy, a former four-
star general, who testified before our committee. He came up with the 
original plan about surging. He said: In order for this to work, you 
are going to have to surge well beyond Baghdad. You are going to have 
to go into Anbar Province and beyond. He predicted what would happen.

They said: No, we are only talking about 22,500 troops.

What is the purpose of the surge? The purpose of the surge, we are 
told--in a humanitarian sense, it makes a lot of sense, except for the 
humanitarian interest of our troops--is to bring order to Baghdad, stop 
the killing and the chaos. Why? Because when that happens and they 
have--I think the phrase used is ''breathing room''--when they have 
that breathing room, what is going to happen? Then they can negotiate. 
Then they will sit down and negotiate an agreement among themselves. 
Has anybody asked the question, What will be the basis of that 
negotiation? What is the idea? What is the element? What is the 
political solution?

The President continues to insist on a well-intended but 
fundamentally flawed strategy. The flawed strategy is, it is possible 
to have a strong central democratic government. Before we went to war, 
I believed, and so stated, that there is not going to be a democracy 
there in any of our lifetimes, including the Presiding Officer, who is 
considerably younger than most of us. It is not going to happen. It is 
possible that we could leave behind a country secure within its 
borders, loosely federated, not a threat to its neighbor and not a 
haven for terror, but that is as good as it is going to get.

At least one and probably both of my colleagues in the Chamber were 
here during the Balkan crisis in Bosnia. What does history teach us and 
what does recent experience teach us? Wherever there is a cycle of 
self-sustaining genocide, self-sustaining sectarian violence, when in 
modern history has it ended other than any one of four ways:

One, a victor. They wipe out the other two sides or three sides or 
one side, and one of the ethnic groups prevails militarily on the 
battlefield.

Two, occupation by an outside force--the Ottoman Empire, the Persian 
Empire, the British Empire.

We can't afford the first to happen because that would have a 
devastating impact on the region because everybody knows the Sunni 
states will get more involved. If it goes the other way, the Shia 
states will be involved in Iran beyond what they are now. That is not a 
real option. We are not an occupying force. It is not in our DNA. We 
are not an empire.

The third option historically is a dictator, a strongman. Wouldn't 
that be the ultimate irony--us going to Iraq to take down Saddam and 
restoring a strong man, which, I respectfully suggest, we should 
consider might happen because eventually we are going to leave and the 
dysfunctional circumstances in Iraq are as likely to produce a strong 
military leader to take over as anything else, although there is no 
individual in sight right now. That is not an option available to us.

What is the fourth historical option? Federation, a federal system, a 
weak central government within the defined borders of a country that, 
in fact, gives the warring sectarian parties some control over the 
fabric of their daily lives, their local police force for their public 
safety, rules relating to marriage, education. That is the only other 
option which has ever worked. It doesn't work perfectly.

What does recent history tell us? Like many here, I was deeply 
involved in our Balkan policy. As my friend from Kansas may remember, 
I, to use the vernacular, beat President Clinton up and about the head 
to use force in the Balkans. I argued, after encountering Milosevic 2 
years before he acted in his office--when he asked me what I thought of 
him, I said: I think you are a damn war criminal, and I am going to 
spend my career seeing you tried as one. I came back and wrote report 
after report, after close to a dozen visits. I saw what was happening 
in Brcko, in Tuzla, in Sarajevo, in Srebenica, more sectarian violence 
in the Balkans from Vlad the Impaler to Milosevic than ever occurred in 
what is now called Iraq.

So how did we end it? We ended it after they killed several hundred 
thousand people, mostly women and children. We ended it after we 
gathered all the neighbors, including Russia, a pro-Serbian force, 
France, all the nations in the region. We gathered in a room. We 
brought in the parties who were warring, including Milosevic, Tudjman, 
Croats, and other leaders representing the Bosniaks. What did we do? We 
then called the Dayton Peace Accords. What did we do there? We gave 
much more autonomy to each of those groups than ever was envisioned by 
what I am proposing.

We set up a thing called the Republic of Serbia in Bosnia with its 
own President. We had a Bosnian President and we had a Croatian 
President. For over 10 years, as my friend from Oklahoma can attest, 
who knows more about force structure than most of us know, there have 
been over 20,000 on average NATO forces there. To the best of my 
knowledge, none has been killed in anger with a shot fired.

What is going on in Bosnia today? Was everyone who was ethnically 
cleansed able to come back to their neighborhoods? No. A lot have. Is 
there still injustice? Yes. Is genocide continuing? No. What are they 
doing now? They are debating amending their Constitution to become part 
of Europe so they can join the EU down the road. We don't have to go 
very far for an example.

Let me ask the rhetorical question again: Can anybody name me a time, 
without empire, dictator or expiring, that self-sustaining sectarian 
violence within the borders of a country has resulted in a central 
federal control that is democratic? With all due respect to the 
President, arguably his dream at the outset made sense. That is why I 
called 3 years ago for 60,000 to 100,000 additional American forces. 
That is why I called for the need for at least 5,000 to 6,000 
paramilitary police to be sent, because I believed--and I wrote at the 
time--if the genie ever gets out of the bottle, if we don't establish 
order quickly, there is no possibility of stopping a vicious civil war.

Senator Hagel and I got smuggled across the Turkish border before the 
war began, and went up to Arbil and met with the Brazani and Talabani 
clans to discuss with them whether


they would actually be with us if force was used. They had us each 
speak before the Kurdish Parliament, and they had already written a 
constitution that was the minimum they would, in fact, insist upon 
which allowed for significant Kurdish autonomy. They wanted a federal 
system.

A year ago January, my distinguished colleague from South Carolina 
and I went to Iraq for what was my sixth time. I have been there since. 
I don't know how many times it was. We went around and proudly put our 
fingers in the ink well, demonstrating that this was a free election. 
We came back and spoke to the President. We were debriefed by the 
President and his war cabinet. The President said it was a great 
democratic effort. I presumed to suggest it wasn't a democratic effort, 
it was a free election. It was a sectarian election. It turns out 92 
percent of the vote cast was a sectarian vote. Kurds voted for Kurds. 
Shia voted for Shia. Sunni voted for Sunni. That is not democracy. 
Elections do not a democracy make. They are a necessary and ultimate 
condition to democracy. Democracy is about giving up things, about 
compromise.


I will never forget what Senator Graham, who has a great facility for 
words, said as I was trying to explain to the President about the 
militias--not that he did not know there were militias. After we got 
finished, the President turned to Senator Graham and Senator Graham 
said, with a bit of humor: Mr. President, it is kind of like when the 
recount was taking place in Florida, if the Republicans had their own 
army and the Democrats had their own army. That is the better analogy.

The genie was out of the bottle, and the genie came roaring out of 
the bottle when that shrine in the Shia area was devastated and ripped 
off the Earth.

Let me conclude by saying, it comes down to a simple proposition: Why 
do we want our troops in Iraq? Is it to fight a civil war or is it to 
provide a circumstance whereby we do the only thing that can help our 
interest, to prevent al-Qaida from occupying territory, to train the 
Iraqi forces, and to protect our troops. To do that we need a lot fewer 
troops.

Do we want to end this war responsibly? If we do, I respectfully 
suggest we vote for this resolution. If you prefer the President's 
plan, which offers no end in sight, I respectfully suggest you should 
vote against it. But, ultimately, there are a lot of proposals put 
forward, including the President's, and you have to ask yourself the 
rhetorical question, I believe: After it is implemented, then what? 
Then what?

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.