# PAYING TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT RON PORTILLO
## `a1682202bf526a3e4d6380a8fab3e1e2`
`Mr. PORTER — 8 April 2008`

---


Mr. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor SGT Ron Portillo for 
his leadership and dedication to the Henderson community and for his 
service with the Nevada Army National Guard.

SGT Ron Portillo joined the United States Marines immediately after 
high school where he volunteered for an extremely demanding 
reconnaissance unit. He completed 3 years with the Marines. After a 
short break from the Marines, Ron joined the United States Army, where 
he was selected for the Special Forces and served in the Persian Gulf 
War, working with small teams on high-risk missions.

Following the Gulf War, Ron moved his wife and six children from Fort 
Bragg, NC to Henderson, NV where he became a successful small business 
owner. After a few years, his oldest son decided to join the military, 
and after talking to recruiters, Ron himself decided to re-enlist. 
Three months later, he was sent to Iraq as an active duty Special 
Forces soldier. After a month into his deployment, Ron was reassigned 
to a Special Forces team in Fallujah. In March 2007, Ron suffered 
serious injuries when his vehicle struck an IED while en route to 
provide support to Marines that were pinned down in a firefight.

While recovering at a hospital in Germany, Ron befriended a therapy 
dog, who visited him daily and assisted him with the healing process. 
Ron was then transferred to the Brookes Army Medical Center in San 
Antonio, TX, and was subsequently released in June 2007. Following his 
release Ron spent countless hours trying to find ways to partner 
therapy dogs with wounded warriors. Ron has since dedicated his efforts 
to developing a Web site dedicated to providing information on service-
dog programs for those wounded in combat.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor the service and dedication of SGT 
Ron Portillo for his service in the Armed Forces, and his leadership 
throughout the Henderson community. He is a remarkable individual, and 
I applaud his efforts for serving our Nation and fellow comrades 
throughout the Armed Forces.
