---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `a16e45872449d0f0efde142bf15eeaaf`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator Leahy for his amendment 
and his interest in dealing with a difficulty that has impacted real 
life. Contractors should be held to account, and there is difficulty in 
gathering the evidence necessary in a prompt way in a time of conflict 
to effectively carry out prosecutions--I can see as a former Federal 
prosecutor--within the time of the statute of limitations. There is 
only one concern I have about it, and I will address that in a moment.

But, fundamentally, the Senator is correct. We have discussed this a 
good bit in the Judiciary Committee, where Senator Leahy is chairman. 
We did the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act that I sponsored 
and led the first one of those. We do have to be careful because it can 
have unintended consequences.

The trial of a marine in California for an act in Iraq that he was 
acquitted for just a few days ago resulted from the bill that we 
passed. I don't think any of us at the time thought that we were 
subjecting military persons to a civilian trial when we were dealing, 
we thought at the time, with defense contractors. We need to be careful 
as we deal with the issue. I know Senator Leahy agrees with that. For 
the most part, I understand and support what he is attempting to do.

The statute of limitations is an important principle of law. It is 
something as a Federal prosecutor, as attorney general of Alabama, I 
had to deal with on many occasions. My colleagues probably know that an 
individual who commits armed bank robbery, if he is not prosecuted 
within 5 years, cannot be prosecuted. If a person commits arson, they 
can't be prosecuted. It is not from the time of discovery of the 
offense, it is from the commission of the offense because we are 
talking about criminal law. We have a great heritage of understanding 
the difficulties faced when we put somebody in jail based on old 
evidence that is somewhat difficult to deal with.


With regard to civil actions, we have a number of statutes of 
limitations that commence on discovery of the wrong, but for the most 
part, except for murder, certain crimes, I think for almost all crimes 
dealing with death and maybe one with child sexual abuse, there is a 
limited statute of limitations.

The statute of limitations on most crimes in the Federal court, even 
serious ones, is 5 years. I do believe during the debate that we 
extended the statute on S&L fraud to 8 years. The truth is, these 
savings and loans would go bankrupt 4 or 5 years after the crime was 
committed. Then it takes 2 or 3 years to investigate it. By then the 
statute had run, and you have, red-handed, defrauding the people, and 
you couldn't prosecute the case. I understand the difficulties we are 
dealing with here.