---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
## `a1771f2df178c4b5fcb3527529047f21`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I rise to speak in support of the 
amendment to strike section 1315 of the supplemental appropriations 
bill now before the Senate. The motion to strike was proposed earlier 
today by the Senator from Mississippi, Mr. Cochran. I am honored to be 
a cosponsor of it. I wish to explain to my colleagues why I am 
cosponsoring it.

This is a bill that is quite necessary to the funding of our military 
effort in Iraq and more broadly. The bill has kind of grown like Topsy 
and has a lot of other stuff in it. Maybe I am reflecting on the fact 
that I am going to see my grandchildren soon. One of my favorite Dr. 
Seuss books is about Thidwick the moose. Thidwick is a glorious moose 
with large antlers. Various creatures in the forest begin to occupy, 
ultimately quite unjustifiably, Thidwick's antlers until they fall off. 
There are parts of this supplemental appropriations bill that in my 
opinion, respectfully, do not belong there. Most significant of those 
is section 1315, which our motion would strike.

Section 1315 would order a withdrawal of American troops in Iraq to 
begin 120 days after passage, regardless of conditions on the ground, 
regardless of the recommendations of General Petraeus, regardless of 
the opinions of our partners in Iraq and throughout


the region, regardless of whether security is improving or 
deteriorating, the most significant of all. The withdrawal would be 
ordered by this section of the bill regardless of whether security was 
improving or deteriorating on the ground. It is the wrong measure at 
the wrong time. Ultimately, it will be a lot of sound and fury that 
signifies nothing but, more importantly, that accomplishes nothing and 
may do harm.

Why do I say it will accomplish nothing? Because everyone in this 
Chamber knows that the President of the United States could not have 
been more clear: If section 1315 is in this bill and is sent to his 
desk, he will veto it. In my opinion, he should veto it. Everyone in 
this Chamber knows there are not the votes in either House of Congress 
to override that veto. So that all that would have been accomplished is 
a delay in getting essential support to our troops in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, support they need and on which they are counting. That is 
unacceptable.

Obviously, Iraq and what has happened there, what is happening now is 
on our minds. We should discuss it. There are ways in which we can 
appropriately legislate with regard to Iraq. In fact, in this bill 
before us, there is a section on benchmarks which establishes for 
ourselves and for the Iraqi Government some benchmarks, some goals that 
we have in mind for what they primarily, on their own, should be 
achieving as they move to secure Baghdad and the rest of the country 
and to take control of their own destiny, an Iraqi Government governing 
the Iraqi people, which was the aim of our overthrow of Saddam Hussein.

The benchmarks are in there, inspired by the good work done by 
Senator Nelson of Nebraska, Senator Warner of Virginia. Senator McCain 
and I, earlier in the debate on Iraq a couple of months ago, were 
prepared to introduce an amendment to have such benchmarks. So there 
was constructive work that could be done. The benchmarks in this bill 
are in the form of a sense of Congress. They are a message. But they 
are not tied to a deadline. The measure that passed the House last week 
actually has some benchmarks that are tied to triggers that would begin 
withdrawal from Iraq.

President Eisenhower, speaking as a general, once said, now famously 
because it has been quoted often in these debates about Iraq, and I 
paraphrase: Anyone who sets a deadline, who argues for a deadline to be 
set in war doesn't understand war.

I believe what General Eisenhower was saying is that war is a dynamic 
process, a terrible process, a deadly process, one we try, through the 
exercise of all our diplomatic strength, to avoid. But when you are in 
a war, you have to give some deference not just to the generals you 
authorized to be in command but to the reality on the ground. War is 
ever changing. I believe Eisenhower must have intended, when he said 
deadlines should not be set in war, that there are two occasions which 
would justify a withdrawal. One is when the mission is accomplished. 
When the purpose for which a nation entered a war is accomplished, then 
one withdraws in victory. The second occasion when one would withdraw, 
based on what is happening on the ground, not some arbitrary deadline 
set far from the battlefield, would be if those in charge conclude that 
it is impossible to achieve the mission, to achieve the purpose for 
which the military action, the war, was commenced. Then a retreat 
occurs, a retreat which is a retreat in defeat.

As difficult as it has gone in Iraq and as many mistakes as have been 
made, as many setbacks as have occurred, as much as these mistakes and 
setbacks have stirred feelings of anger and frustration among the 
American people, which are totally understandable, justified, we have 
not reached the point in Iraq, in my considered judgment, where it is 
ready for a retreat because we have lost all hope of achieving our 
purposes there, which are to create a self-governing, self-sustaining 
Iraqi Government that will be our ally, particularly in the war against 
terrorism, as opposed to our enemy, and would create a model, a path, 
an alternative path to a better future in the Arab world, the Islamic 
world, than the death, hatred, and suicidal ambitions of al-Qaida and 
the other Islamic extremists, such as those who attacked us on 
September 11.

We are in a long and difficult war, and the price paid by our heroic 
soldiers and their families has been heavy. I understand the feelings 
of anger and frustration among the American people. But what is not 
understandable, with all respect, is for Congress now to let the 
passions of this moment, in Washington, obscure what is happening at 
this moment in Baghdad and in Anbar. Our actions should be driven by 
the real-war conditions in Iraq, not by the mindset here in Washington.

So I ask my colleagues to keep their minds open as we begin this very 
important and, critical debate. Our national security, in my opinion, 
is on the line in the outcome of this debate. The lives of our troops 
in Iraq and Afghanistan are on the line, quite literally, in the 
outcome of this debate.

I ask my colleagues to keep their minds open and to make a judgment 
as to whether this section--ordering a withdrawal from Iraq within 120 
days, regardless of what happens on the ground; to be essentially 
completed by March of next year when most American troops would be 
withdrawn, regardless of what is happening on the ground in Iraq--to 
keep their minds open as to whether this is the right time for such a 
measure, whether it is the right measure, and whether it has any chance 
to do anything but to send a mixed message from this Congress, 
particularly to those who are fighting for us.

I ask my colleagues to look from here, for a moment, at what is 
actually happening on the ground in Baghdad and in Anbar Province, to 
the west, under the new security strategy with the new troops GEN David 
Petraeus is implementing.

Here is what I hear people saying--this is preliminary, this is 
early, but it is encouraging--sectarian fighting between Sunni and Shia 
is down significantly in districts in Baghdad where American and Iraqi 
forces have entered. That means the number of people killed in 
sectarian conflict, violent acts, death squads in Baghdad is down 
significantly in those districts where Iraqi and American forces have 
entered and established a presence.

As security improves, many Iraqi families that fled from their homes 
are returning to Baghdad. Moqtada al-Sadr, the head of the Mahdi 
militia, who has been so anti-American, has disappeared and many of his 
top lieutenants have been arrested.

The Government of Prime Minister Maliki, the Government in Iraq, has 
shown the kind of strength and decisiveness that is an obvious and 
necessary precondition for progress there.

I ask my colleagues to consider the testimony given to the Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, which I am privileged to 
chair, last Wednesday by Stuart Bowen, Jr., the Special Inspector 
General for Iraqi Reconstruction. Anybody who has followed Mr. Bowen's 
work knows this is a straight shooter. He is not in there to protect 
anybody. He is not in there to spin. He has told it as he sees it. He 
has been extremely critical of so much of what has happened in Iraq, 
particularly, obviously, within the jurisdiction the law gives him as 
Inspector General, which is to see how our money has been spent. He has 
documented waste in ways that are truly infuriating.

So when Stuart Bowen says something encouraging about what he sees in 
Iraq, that matters to me, and I believe it should matter to others. 
Last Wednesday, before the committee, Mr. Bowen said the week before he 
had returned from his 15th visit to Iraq. He said:




 It's been about twenty months--


Almost 2 years--



 since I have returned from Iraq with a sense of cautious 


 optimism. I have that now.


That is significant. Why on Earth--with independent testimony from 
Iraq that there are preliminary, encouraging signs of the effect of the 
new troops, the new plan, the new leader--why on Earth would we at this 
time order a withdrawal of those troops to begin within 120 days 
regardless?

Why, in the face of these encouraging developments, would this 
Chamber demand that the essence of the plan that has brought about 
these encouraging developments should end? Why, just several weeks 
after confirming GEN David Petraeus to lead our effort in Iraq, would 
this Chamber block him from carrying out the strategy he


shaped, is now implementing, and appears to be working?

In my opinion, the deadline for withdrawal from Iraq that is in this 
bill now is a deadline for defeat, where victory and success are still 
possible. There are no guarantees, of course, in war. That is why we 
adjust our judgments according to what is happening on the ground. So 
there are no guarantees that the encouraging first results of the 
implementation of the Petraeus plan will continue and go to full 
success--no guarantees.

But I can tell you this: If we adopt an arbitrary order to begin to 
withdraw our troops, regardless of what is happening on the ground in 
Iraq in the war, it will guarantee failure. That failure will have 
profound consequences for Iraq, which I believe will break up into not 
just full-fledged civil war but the kind of ethnic slaughter that drew 
us a decade ago into Bosnia to stop. And we will have withdrawn and be 
expected to stand by and let it happen.

Of course, ultimately it will lead to what will be claimed as a 
victory for the forces of Islamic extremism, our enemies in this war we 
are fighting. It will, in my opinion, ultimately embolden them to 
strike us here at home again.

So I appeal to my colleagues, as this debate on this amendment to 
strike begins, let's have a good debate. That is our nature. That is 
the essence of our democracy and of this Senate in which we are 
privileged to serve. But I ask my colleagues, in the end, to step back 
and think carefully about what this section 1315 would bring about, and 
instead of undermining General Petraeus, or at best sending a mixed 
message to him and his troops, let's give him and his troops the 
unified support and time they need to succeed for us.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.

I withdraw the suggestion of an absence of a quorum, seeing my friend 
and colleague from Oklahoma now on the floor.