---
---

# EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
## `a18384001e672ed96198fc7bd4bcd621`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 12 April 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I say to Senator Thune, I agree, and 
will recall for our colleagues that--I believe it was postelection--
General Schoomaker, the Chief of Staff of the Army,


pleaded with us not to allow what happened last year to happen this 
year. He was referring to delaying passing the supplemental because it 
causes all kinds of problems.

A few weeks ago, he testified again, and he was passionate about 
this. It is his soldiers, predominantly, Army soldiers in Iraq. He 
pleaded with us not to delay this supplemental. He said you have to 
take money from all kinds of accounts, and time and effort the 
leadership in the Department of Defense needs to be spending helping 
the soldiers being successful has to be redirected to bringing money 
together in ways that are not easy to fund the effort. He described it 
as trying to walk through a marsh waste deep in water--those were his 
words--in the muck.

We are creating a political muck that makes it very difficult and 
adds additional burdens to our Defense Department when they have so 
many important things to do. We should not do that.

I thank the Senator for his eloquent remarks and his leadership on 
the Armed Services Committee and for his commitment to our soldiers and 
commitment to the United States of America and the good foreign policy 
we have had, we seek to accomplish.

Our foreign policy is a foreign policy designed to improve the Middle 
East. It is designed to improve the lives of the people in Iraq. It is 
not an imperialistic attempt to gain wealth or power at their expense. 
We want them to be successful. In the end, it will be successful for 
us. It will make us more safe. It will make the world more safe and can 
begin the end of some of the radicalism we are seeing.

I thank the Presiding Officer and yield the floor.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.