---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `a196119311f0119505e9d23d20516af4`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I rise in strong opposition to this resolution. As we are all aware, 
U.S. forces at this very moment are engaged in battle against heavily 
armed enemy forces in a strategically important region of Afghanistan. 
Our brave men and women are making steady progress against a deadly 
foe, and are doing so at great risk to their lives.

This offensive is part of a new strategy in Afghanistan focused on 
the immediate goals of disrupting, dismantling, and defeating al Qaeda, 
denying al Qaeda a safe haven, and reversing the momentum of the 
Taliban. This offensive is already producing dramatic success, 
including the capture of senior Taliban leaders, the routing of their 
forces, and the stabilization of key areas.

A winning strategy should be supported, not undermined. We must not 
give Taliban leaders and fighters a shield against U.S. forces that 
they otherwise cannot stop. No enemy was ever vanquished, no victory 
was ever secured by running away. Those who wish to destroy us would 
surely follow us, convinced that we had been beaten and eager to attack 
us wherever we go, as they would be confident that we can, in fact, be 
beaten again.

Mr. Speaker, let us dispel any myths or illusions about the 
consequences of a forced withdrawal. As General Petraeus has warned, 
''I was in Kandahar. It was in Kandahar that the 9/11 attacks were 
planned. It was in the training camps in eastern Afghanistan where the 
initial preparation of the attackers was carried out before they went 
to Hamburg and flight schools in the U.S. It is important to recall the 
seriousness of the mission and why it is that we are in Afghanistan in 
the first place and why we are still there after years and years of 
hard work and sacrifice that have passed.''

One of the principal reasons that we have been spared a repeat of 
those attacks is that U.S. forces quickly toppled the Taliban regime 
that was protecting the terrorists and drove it and its al Qaeda allies 
out of their safety zone and into the remote mountains. Years of 
constant U.S. military pressure have forced them to turn their 
attention from planning more attacks against our homeland to fighting 
for their own survival.

To leave Afghanistan now would pave the way for the reestablishment 
of a vast and secure base from which al Qaeda and other deadly enemies 
could strike Americans around the world. Having withdrawn and abandoned 
our hard-won positions, to our allies and the people of Afghanistan, 
U.S. credibility would be significantly and perhaps irrevocably 
damaged. This, in turn, could leave the U.S. alone and more vulnerable 
than ever to the threats of radical Islamic extremists.

Our retreat would be seen around the world by friends and opponents 
alike as a surrender, as a sign that America no longer has the will to 
defend herself. We might attempt to fool ourselves into believing that 
it was merely a temporary setback, that we have suffered no long-term 
blow, but no one else would be fooled. It would be proof to every group 
that wishes to attack and destroy us that we can be fought and we can 
be beaten, that eventually America will just give up, regardless of the 
consequences.

We should support our troops by supporting their efforts to disrupt 
and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and the Taliban.

As many of you know, my daughter-in-law Lindsay served in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. I also have two committee staffers, one in the Army 
Reserves and one in the Marine Reserves, who are on their way now to 
Afghanistan. This is not their first time in battle. Both of these 
gentlemen have served bravely in Iraq, but the prospect of entering 
combat never becomes routine. They, like my stepson Douglas, who served 
as a Marine fighter pilot in Iraq, have recounted to me how the debates 
in Congress to mandate a withdrawal of our forces in Iraq demoralizes 
U.S. troops.

The request of my staffers to me as they embark on their mission to 
Afghanistan is to provide them with all of the tools and all of the 
support that they need to defeat the enemy and to win. They ask that we 
strengthen our commitment, our resolve, to the mission in Afghanistan 
and Pakistan. Our enemies are redoubling their efforts. We must also.

In June of last year, Osama bin Laden noted that U.S. efforts had 
been, and I quote, ''transferred to Afghanistan and Pakistan. Thus, 
jihad must be directed at that region.''

Bin Laden later said in September, ''Not much longer, and the war in 
Afghanistan will be over. Afterwards, not even a trace of the Americans 
will be found there. Much rather, they will retreat far away behind the 
Atlantic. Then only we and you will be left.''

We must do everything possible to deny bin Laden and al Qaeda such a 
victory.

Mr. Speaker, the Afghan people are also listening to today's debate. 
For us to succeed in Afghanistan, we need their support. But the Afghan 
people will not be giving that support if they believe that we will 
abandon them.

As Admiral Michael Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
has said, ''When I am in Afghanistan, I get the same question asked as 
when I am in Pakistan, which is, are you going to leave us again? 
Because they remember very well that we have in the past. And so there 
is a trust here. There is uncertainty through Afghanistan's eyes as to 
whether or not we will stay.''

In cooperating with us, in trusting us, they know that they are 
risking their lives and those of their families. Our troops are 
listening as well.

This debate today reminds me of the many times that I have come down 
to the floor to speak against a forced withdrawal from Iraq and the 
need to support our mission there.

Mr. Speaker, it is an illusion to believe that we can protect 
ourselves from our enemies by picking and choosing easy battles and 
turning away from those that require patience and sacrifice. This 
Congress cannot, must not, turn away from its responsibility to defend 
our country and our citizens simply because the task seems too 
difficult. The men and women in uniform who willingly risk their lives 
to defend our country do not believe that.



Mr. Speaker, as with all of my fellow Members and citizens, I hope 
for a


world one day without war. But in the world we live in, some wars are 
forced upon us. And we have no choice but to fight and to win them if 
we are to survive.

I urge my colleagues to resoundingly defeat this resolution.

I reserve the balance of my time.