---
---

# None
## `a19c2d2c5eb68a946881af49d30715cf`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Let me first of all thank Mr. Meek and Mr. 
Ryan for yielding to me and allowing me just to join what I think has 
been an enormously instructive discussion.

The point that I want to leave on is, and I love what your display is 
saying, the budget would not raise taxes, but what I do want to just 
acknowledge, all that you have said, is because we are choosing people 
over special interests, because I leave you with this large brown bar 
that shows you that if the taxes that the President wants to keep in 
his budget, and the Republican budget, were to go forward, all the work 
that we are trying to do, whether it is the emergency supplemental and 
SCHIP and Pell Grants and more jobs being created, go down the tube, 
with the $17,500 tax relief to those making over $1 million. This is 
what put us in this enormous deficit.

Of course, the Iraq war with no oversight and control, $12 billion 
lost in Iraq somewhere, contracts not accounted for, but I am glad that 
we have got one in emergency supplemental that will get us out of Iraq 
and will help people in this country. We have got a budget that will 
not focus on special interests, but we will focus on veterans and 
children and health care.

Mr. Meek, you know, you were saying about that, hours-long vote, that 
was Medicare. As you well know, we are still paying for that Medicare 
prescription drug benefit now.

Let me thank both of you. I am proud to be part of the fix-it 
Congress after we have been walking through the muck, if you will, of a 
broken Congress.