# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `a1a80a12614e7e2d572d93199b7070ac`
`Mr. COCHRAN â€” 26 March 2007`

---


Mr. COCHRAN. Madam President, this is an amendment to the committee 
substitute which is now at the desk. The amendment will strike part of 
section 1315 of the bill titled ''Revision of United States Policy on 
Iraq.'' The majority of section 1315 of this act is a restatement of 
S.J. Res. 9, the United States Policy in Iraq Resolution of 2007.

Two weeks ago, the Senate voted against adopting S.J. Res. 9 by a 
vote of 50 to 48. Section 1315 calls for a prompt transition of the 
mission in Iraq to a limited mission; a phased redeployment of U.S. 
forces from Iraq within 120 days of enactment of this act; a goal of 
redeployment of all U.S. combat forces from Iraq by March 31, 2008, 
except for a limited number essential for protecting U.S. and coalition 
personnel and infrastructure, training, and equipping Iraqi forces, and 
conducting targeted counterterrorism operations.

Section 1315 also calls for a classified campaign plan for Iraq, 
including benchmarks and projected redeployment dates of U.S. forces 
from Iraq. Finally, it also includes an expression of the sense of 
Congress concerning benchmarks for the Government of Iraq, along with a 
reporting requirement by the commander, multinational forces, Iraq, 
which is currently General Petraeus, to detail the progress being made 
by the Iraqi Government on the benchmarks contained in this section.

This amendment does not remove the sense-of-the-Congress provision 
that is important to a number of Senators. I think all Senators share 
an earnest desire that the Iraqi Government move aggressively to 
undertake the measures necessary to ensure a stable and


free Iraq. The language to be removed by my amendment is essentially a 
restatement of S.J. Res. 9, which, as I said, on March 15 Senators 
defeated by a vote of 50 to 48.

Before announcing his new plan in Iraq, the President sought input 
from his top military and civilian advisers, along with Members of 
Congress, foreign leaders, and other military and foreign policy 
experts. He acknowledged there was no easy solution to the situation in 
Iraq and the Middle East, and he determined a temporary deployment of 
additional U.S. troops in Iraq to support Iraqi security forces would 
provide a new window of opportunity for Iraqi political and economic 
initiatives to take hold and reduce sectarian violence. This plan 
provides the best hope to bring stability to the country and to hasten 
the day when our troops will come home.

Earlier this year the National Intelligence Estimate entitled 
''Prospects for Iraq's Stability: A Challenging Road Ahead,'' was 
delivered to the Congress. The National Intelligence Estimate 
indicated--and I am quoting now from an unclassified version:




 Coalition capabilities, including force levels, resources, 


 and operations, remain an essential stabilizing element in 


 Iraq. If coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the 


 term of this Estimate--


Which is 12 to 18 months--



 we judge that this almost certainly would lead to a 


 significant increase in the scale and scope of sectarian 


 conflict in Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the Iraqi 


 government, and have adverse consequences for national 


 reconciliation.



 If such a rapid withdrawal were to take place, we judge 


 that the Iraqi security forces would be unlikely to survive 


 as a nonsectarian national institution; neighboring 


 countries--invited by Iraqi factions or unilaterally--might 


 intervene openly in the conflict; massive civilian casualties 


 and forced population displacement would be probable; Al-


 Qaida in Iraq would attempt to use parts of the country--


 particularly al Anbar province--to plan increased attacks in 


 and outside of Iraq; and spiraling violence and political 


 disarray in Iraq, along with Kurdish moves to control Kirkuk 


 and strengthen autonomy, could prompt Turkey to launch a 


 military incursion.


It is clear to me that it is in our national interests to support the 
President's new strategy, to help provide an opportunity for political 
and economic solutions in Iraq, and for more effective diplomatic 
efforts in the Middle East region. Of course, we know there are no 
guarantees of success, but according to the National Intelligence 
Estimate and the perspective of some of our most experienced foreign 
policy experts, maintaining the current course or withdrawal without 
additional stability in Iraq will be harmful to our national interests 
and to the entire region.

We need to do what we can to help stabilize this situation and bring 
our troops home. As a beginning point, for this strategy to work, we 
should show a commitment to success. I support the new initiative and 
urge the Senate to give it a chance to work. This does not mean we 
should not monitor the situation or that the plan should not be 
adjusted as new developments occur, but we need to let the forces move 
forward to brighten the prospects of stabilizing Iraq and bringing our 
troops home.

As Commander in Chief, the President needs our support. I support his 
efforts and the efforts of our troops. The Senate should provide the 
resources necessary to accomplish this mission, and these funds are 
included in this bill. Troop levels and missions need to be left to 
General Petraeus and his commanders who ought to have the flexibility 
to react to the situation on the ground in determining how to deploy 
troops as needed. Congress should not be tying the hands of our 
commanders or limiting their flexibility to respond to the threats on 
the battlefield.

The inclusion of unnecessarily restrictive language will ensure a 
Presidential veto, we are advised. In testimony before the 
Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, we were told that the funding 
provided by this bill is needed by the end of April. We need to speed 
this funding to our troops, rather than slow it down by returning to a 
debate already settled by the Senate by a recorded vote.

Madam President, I urge the support of my amendment.