---
---

# THE RULE OF LAW
## `a1ae345d51a6629a6232979cb1a71c3d`
`Mr. CARTER — 15 March 2010`

---


Mr. CARTER. Let me state that many Members of both sides of the aisle 
have joined in cosponsoring this bill. I think when we get through some 
of this other business that is taking forever around here we might get 
down to something like this. I agree with you. This was supposed to be 
an oversight Congress, and I think in many ways, there is a valid 
attempt to try to be an oversight Congress.

Nothing is more important for oversight than an issue like this, and 
that is, just what happened and how it happened. And you say, Well, 
okay, people were killed. It has got bigger ramifications than that. 
That is what is so hard to understand. This was a man wearing the same 
uniform of the people he shot.

I want to share a story, and I have shared it before on the floor of 
the House. The day after all this took


place, I was at Fort Hood. I was out at Darnall Hospital where there 
were wounded out there who had been transported both there and all over 
our district. Our community, from all the way down into Williamson 
County, Bell County, and Coryell County, the whole surrounding area 
just united behind the medical community, behind this terrible act and 
gave the very best medical care available anywhere for these people.

I was talking to a nurse, and she said when she was deployed to 
Afghanistan, she worked in a hospital with Australians. And she got an 
email from an Australian nurse the morning I visited Fort Hood, which 
was the day after the shooting, and in that email the lady said, you 
know, Soldiers in the Australian army are starting to question and 
asking this question of mental health professionals in our army already 
today: If the Americans can't trust the people in their uniform, can we 
trust the people in our uniform?

Now, remember, if you're in the military and you're a soldier, we 
like to say we depend on each other in this place. But when they say 
they depend on each other, they mean they put their life in the hands 
of the man behind them and the man on either side of them and the man 
in front of them, and they in turn have those people's lives in their 
hands. The military functions by knowing that each can do their job and 
trusting the other one to do it.

And so there is something that strikes in the psyche of a soldier 
when a fellow soldier publicly executes 13 people and ultimately 
results in the death of an unborn child, 14 deaths, wearing the same 
uniform as the people who were shot, and so it strikes to the soul of a 
soldier. We are doing our very best and I would say doing a good job of 
overcoming that. These are awfully, awfully talented young men and 
women in the army, but it's still there. It's still creating distrust, 
driving a wedge in our military, and, arguably, it's as effective a 
strike as you can have if you cause folks to distrust. So this has big 
scope. In truth of fact, what will we think if somebody we trusted to 
have our backs started shooting people in this place? We would wonder 
who we could trust.