---
---

# UNITES STATES POLICY IN IRAQ RESOLUTION OF 2007--S. J. RES. 9
## `a1c89038cc045a1f3810fa80c17fff52`
`Mr. INHOFE — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. First of all, let me thank the Senator from South 
Carolina, who has been steadfast all the way through this, and who has 
made such great contributions. In addition to what he said, I think it 
is worth observing that this is working.

In this morning's Washington Post, there is an article about the 
successes that are taking place. The top U.S. military spokesman in 
Baghdad said the number of sectarian killings has dropped since the 
operation began in mid-February.

Then on the other side, GEN Qassim al-Mousawi, who is the Iraqi 
military spokesman, also offered an upbeat assessment of the Baghdad 
security plan and how well it is working now. So I think, frankly, this 
is sooner than I thought we would be getting some positive results.

Let me also make one observation before going on to the next 
speakers. That is, after receiving rather late the resolution by 
Senator Murray, 107, in reading it, unless I misread it, it appears to 
me she is outlining some things that are pretty consistent with what is 
in the Gregg resolution. So I do not know--with the three resolutions 
we have--the order. That is going to be determined, but right now we 
are not sure of it.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from West 
Virginia, Mr. Byrd, be recognized for 20 minutes, followed by Senator 
Ensign for 7 minutes, followed by Senator Tester for 10 minutes, 
followed by Senator Kyl for 7 minutes, then any intervening Democrat, 
to be followed by Republican Senators Brownback, Warner, and Vitter for 
7 minutes each.