---
---

# IRAQ
## `a1e493a9c59bf4ebba13306c772c04eb`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 12 July 2007`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, first, what a remarkable ally the junior 
Senator from Rhode Island has been these few months he has been in the 
Senate. For his eloquence and help on many


issues--particularly this issue--I thank him. I greatly enjoyed 
listening to his remarks.

It has been 52 months since military operations began in Iraq. We 
have now been engaged in the Iraq war longer than we were in World War 
II. Approximately 3,600 Americans have died and 25,000 have been 
wounded. More than 4 million Iraqis have fled their homes, and tens of 
thousands, at a minimum, have been killed. With President Bush's surge 
well underway, violence in Iraq has exploded to unprecedented levels 
and American troop fatalities are up 70 percent. In short, from all 
sides, the situation in Iraq is an unmitigated disaster.

As if that weren't bad enough, our national security continues to 
suffer as the administration's single-minded focus on Iraq prevents us 
from adequately confronting threats of extremism and terrorism around 
the globe. Indeed, violence and instability continue to fester 
elsewhere at a great cost to our national security.

Last November, when the American people cast their ballots, they 
expressed their opposition to this war loudly and clearly. As the 
situation continues to deteriorate, they have raised their voices still 
louder. I know my colleagues hear their voices, as more and more of 
them step forward to call for a long overdue change of course.

At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, those voices continue to 
fall on deaf ears. Time and again, the President has made it clear that 
nothing--not the wishes of the American people, not the advice of 
military foreign policy experts, not the concerns of members of both 
parties--will discourage him from pursuing a misguided war that has no 
end in sight.

Congress cannot wait for this President to change course in Iraq 
because you and I know he has no intention of doing so. He has made it 
clear that he will continue to pursue massive military engagement 
despite the wishes of the American people, despite the fact that our 
military is stretched to the breaking point, and despite the fact that 
our presence in Iraq has been, according to our own State Department, 
''used as a rallying cry for radicalization and extremist activity in 
neighboring countries.''

So it is up to us in Congress to listen to the American people, to 
save American lives, and to ensure our Nation's security by redeploying 
our troops from Iraq. We have the power and we have the responsibility 
to act, and to act now. That is why I will support the amendment 
offered by Senators Levin and Jack Reed. By passing binding deadlines 
for both beginning and ending redeployment, the Senate can take a 
strong step toward bringing our involvement in this war to a close.

I especially applaud Senators Hagel, Smith, and Snowe for putting 
principle ahead of party by cosponsoring this amendment. I hope their 
example inspires still more Senators to realize that it is not enough 
to just criticize the war or just call on the President to change 
course and that we don't need to--in fact, we cannot afford to--wait 
for more reports and more time before taking decisive action.

The Levin-Reed amendment doesn't go as far as I would like. I am 
concerned that the exception in the amendment, particularly for 
''providing logistical support'' to Iraqi troops, would give the 
administration too much wiggle room to ''repackage'' its military 
mission instead of redeploying our brave servicemembers. Nonetheless, I 
am pleased to see so many colleagues--on both sides of the aisle--
recognizing, at last, that the President's course in Iraq has failed, 
that Congress needs to act, and that we can and must safely redeploy 
our troops.

Other amendments that have been proposed fall short because they 
don't require the troops to be redeployed. It is not enough to pass 
something that sounds good but doesn't move us toward ending the war. 
Weak, feel-good amendments may give people political comfort, but that 
won't last long. We can fool ourselves, but we can't fool the American 
people.

Mr. President, it is increasingly clear that the war in Iraq has 
become the defining aspect of our engagement in this part of the world 
and that it, coupled with this administration's inconsistent efforts to 
promote democracy and the rule of law, has unfortunately alienated and 
angered those whose support and cooperation we need if we are to 
prevail against al-Qaida and its allies.

Our role in the war in Iraq has generated a level of political 
turbulence throughout the region and beyond. It has given way to a new 
variety of al-Qaida-style militants. These militants are gaining 
prominence in many countries that have traditionally been our allies. 
The longer we remain in Iraq, the longer these new strains of extremism 
will threaten the security of the region and, in turn, threaten our 
Nation. As long as the President's policies continue, Iraq will 
continue to be what the declassified National Intelligence Estimate 
calls a ''cause celebre'' for a new generation of terrorists.

Al-Qaida and its affiliates are not a one-country franchise. Yet this 
administration continues to pretend otherwise, such as calling Iraq the 
central front in the war on terror. Al-Qaida's networks have not 
relinquished their global fight to focus exclusively on Iraq. By 
deploying our troops from Iraq, we can focus on developing a 
comprehensive global strategy to combat them around the globe.

As I said, the administration's policies in Iraq are an unmitigated 
disaster. But there is a way to mitigate that disaster, to lessen the 
burdens it is imposing on our troops, our national security, our 
taxpayers, and our country. And that is to redeploy our troops from 
Iraq.

There is no reason to delay this decision until September. We know 
now what we will know then, and we know it isn't pretty. We have 
already read in the Pentagon's first quarterly surge report that 
violence has increased throughout much of the country in recent months, 
and we know there is no military solution to Iraq's problems. The only 
question is how long we are prepared to wait and how many Americans we 
are willing to have killed before we act.

As my colleagues know, the majority leader and I have introduced 
legislation that would safely redeploy our troops by setting a date, 
after which our funding for the war would be ended. That is what 
Congress did in 1993 with respect to our military mission in Somalia. I 
continue to believe we must be prepared to take that step again to 
finally put an end to the war in Iraq.

However, if the Levin-Reed amendment wins the support of a majority 
of the Senate, I believe that will be an important step forward, and I 
will likely not insist on a vote on the Feingold-Reid amendment at that 
time. If our efforts to end the war don't succeed, however, I will 
offer Feingold-Reid as an amendment to the Department of Defense 
appropriations bill when it is considered by the Senate. Of course, I 
hope that will not be necessary, but it will depend on whether enough 
of my colleagues are prepared to back up their words with action, to 
listen to the American people, and to say enough is enough.

This war doesn't make sense. It is hurting our country, and it is 
time to end it.

I yield the floor.