---
---

# CHANGE OF VOTE
## `a1ef95004f1ee7192c82367ca04f17fe`
`Mr. REID — 20 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I, too, appreciate the work of the junior 
Senator from Michigan on this legislation. She is truly a great Senator 
and does so much to help her State and our great country.

I don't seek any attention. I get some on occasion, but I don't seek 
it. But, today, I want everyone to understand. On this amendment, I 
want this amendment to be known as the Feingold-Reid amendment. I 
proudly add my name, as I have from the very beginning, to this 
amendment. This is the future. We must proceed, and we will, at some 
time with this legislation.

Yesterday, the Senate voted, once again, on legislation with real 
teeth that would protect our troops and prevent the President from 
irresponsibly overburdening these troops. It was a good amendment. It 
simply said: If you are in country for 15 months in a war in Iraq or 
Afghanistan, then come home and spend at least 15 months. The old rule 
used to be you would be home twice that long, three times that long, 
but now, no, we have our troops going back on fourth tours of duty 
within a couple of years. This has led to all kinds of problems in our 
States.

Look at the people who have been killed and injured during their 
second tour of duty or their third tour of duty. I can't get out of my 
mind, and I never will, Anthony Schober from Las Vegas--no, he was from 
northern Nevada--I am sorry. He knew he wasn't going to come back from 
his fourth tour of duty. He told everybody. He told his family. He 
said: I have been too lucky. I have had explosions next to me. I have 
survived them all. I have seen my buddies killed. I am not going to 
come back. And he didn't. He was killed. That is what the Webb 
amendment was all about.

The vote yesterday wasn't a vote of symbolism; it was a binding 
national policy. Yet, again, the Republican minority filibustered the 
Webb amendment. The reason I say ''filibustered the Webb amendment'' is 
because a majority in the House and the Senate support a change in 
direction of the war in Iraq. A majority in the House and a majority in 
the Senate have voted time and time again to change direction, to bring 
our troops home.

The rules in the Senate are such as they are, and I live by them, and 
I love this institution. The fact is, the Republicans have stopped us 
from enacting policies supported by a majority in the Senate and in the 
House and, by far, the American people by filibustering the Webb 
amendment, the amendment about which I just spoke.

We don't have to take my word for this. Headlines from newspapers 
from around the country--from the Wall Street Journal: ''Republicans 
Block Troop Measure.'' From the Associated Press: ''GOP Opposes Bill 
Regulating Combat Tours.'' From Reuters: ''Senate Republicans Block 
Iraq Bill.'' Headline after headline all across this country--''Senate 
Republicans Block Iraq Bill.''

I understand the Senate is a deliberative body that was created to 
prevent haste and promote consensus. But what we are seeing here on 
this issue, the issue of the war in Iraq, is a far cry from 
deliberation. It is obstructionism, strictly outright obstructionism. 
That is what we saw yesterday, and except for a courageous few, that is 
what we continue to see from the Republican Senate. They represent a 
small minority of the American people.

Countless Republicans have said the right thing. Countless Senators 
who are Republicans say the right things when they go home. They say: 
We must support our troops, we must protect our national security, and 
we must change course in Iraq. But here, these same Republican 
Senators, when they come back to Washington, have consistently voted 
the wrong way. They have voted to put their arms around the Bush war 
and to make it also their war. Back home, they assert their 
independence, but in Washington, they walk in lockstep with the 
President and continue to support his failed war.

General Petraeus, whom we have talked about all morning, has said the 
war cannot be won militarily. That is what he said. Can we work 
together? Of course we can. We have proven that. Not on this, not on 
the Iraq war, but we have worked together this year on bipartisan 
issues. We have made progress. We hope to have next week the SCHIP 
health care for children. We have done stem cell research on a 
bipartisan basis. We passed an energy bill with 62 votes; student 
financial aid--the largest probably since the GI bill of rights; 
minimum wage; mental health parity. We have done a lot of good things 
working together. The issue dealing with Iraq has been one side against 
the other.

I very much appreciate the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer 
has worked his heart out trying to come up with something that would 
change the course of the war in Iraq, and I admire and appreciate his 
having done this. He is continuing to do it. As we speak, he has people 
working to try to come up with something, a bipartisan consensus that 
would change the course of the war in Iraq.

I have reached out to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
time and time again. With the exception of about five or six courageous 
Senate Republicans, these efforts have been rebuffed. That is their 
right. I understand that. There is nothing the Democratic majority can 
do to force the Republican colleagues to vote the responsible way. When 
I talk about the Democratic majority, remember, it is a slim majority--
51 to 49. With Senator Johnson ill until a week or so ago, it was 50 to 
49. But so long as young Americans continue to fight and die and be 
wounded in another nation's civil war with no end in sight, we are 
going to keep fighting to responsibly bring them home, rebuild our 
military, and return our focus to fighting the real war on terror 
against Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network.


By the way, we hear today he has another video coming. I don't know 
if he will be gray-bearded this time or black-bearded, but he has 
another video coming, and it is on its way within a matter of a few 
days.

The President and his Republican supporters here in the Senate say we 
should just continue the current policy; things are going OK, so 
couldn't we just let things keep going on as they are, and hopefully--I 
guess they think things will turn out OK. But tell that to the 20,000 
Iraqis who flee their country every month, left homeless and hopeless. 
Tell that to the families of innocent civilians, 1.2 million of them 
who have been killed in this war. Tell that to the 2 million Iraqi 
refugees who are in Jordan and Syria and anyplace they can find. Tell 
that to the families of 3,800 dead American troops, that things are 
going OK. Tell the families of the countless thousands who have been 
grievously wounded in this war that it is OK, we just need a little 
more patience and a little more time. Tell our troops who have served 
us so bravely, so bravely without proper equipment on occasion or rest, 
that now is not the time to change course of the war.

Today, we have another chance to forge a responsible and binding path 
out of Iraq. The amendment before us is the best path for the United 
States and for the people of Iraq. Should we care about the people of 
Iraq? Of course we should. The worst foreign policy blunder in the 
history of this country was the invasion of Iraq. Am I glad we are rid 
of Saddam Hussein? Of course I am. What we have done to that country I 
have outlined in some detail here this afternoon. This amendment 
changes our fundamental mission away from policing the civil war, 
reduces our large combat footprint, and focuses on those missions which 
are in the national security interests of our country. It uses 
Congress's powers, its constitutional powers to limit funding after 
June 1 of next year--that is well into the sixth year of the war--to 
counterterrorism, force protection, and targeted training of Iraqi 
forces.



This amendment recognizes we have interests in Iraq, but it does not 
facilitate the open-ended role of U.S. forces in a civil war. I urge my 
colleagues to support this responsible legislation. It is one more 
chance for the Senate to chart a new way forward in Iraq.

President John Kennedy:




 A man does what he must--in spite of personal consequences, 


 in spite of obstacles and dangers and pressures--and that is 


 the basis of all morality.


If we send this amendment to the President, those who voted for it 
can return home, look their constituents in the eyes, and tell them 
they had the courage to finally do what is right for our troops and for 
our country.

Let me close by saying this: As my good friend knows, the comanager 
of this bill, we came to the Congress on the same day of the same year 
25 years ago. I respect the senior Senator from Arizona because he 
doesn't hide what he stands for. I admire him. He stands for what he 
thinks is the right thing to do. I disagree with him, but what I am 
criticizing is not my friend from Arizona. I am reaching out to my 
friends across the aisle who say one thing at home, issue press 
releases one way, and then come here and vote another way.

So it is time we do the right thing. I believe it is the right thing. 
Look what has happened to our country since this invasion took place. 
We are mired in civil war in Israel with Palestinians fighting each 
other, we have a near civil war in Lebanon, and we have this terrible 
situation in Iraq. We have Iran thumbing their nose at us, and our 
standing in the world community has gone down, down, down.