# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a1f04c46ca2a1e5694196e1c2be53275`
`Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California — 13 February 2007`

---


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support 
of this resolution that supports our troops, but oppose the President's 
escalation plan. My opposition to this war has been clear and 
consistent. The night before I voted against the Iraq war resolution in 
October 2002, I stated on this floor that Congress should not grant the 
President power to pursue a war in Iraq for three reasons.

First, Iraq was not an imminent threat to the safety and security of 
America, something we now know to be true. There are no weapons of mass 
destruction in Iraq.

Secondly, we were acting without real international support. And we 
now know that our unilateral action proved to be disastrous to our 
standing in the world community.

Finally, I questioned whether the President had an exit strategy. 
Now, 4/1/2/ years later, it is clear that President Bush did not have 
and still does not have an exit strategy for our troops.

Even though I voted against the invasion, I never dreamt that the 
President's policies and course of action would be as disastrous as 
they have been for Iraq, for the gulf region and for America.

Americans went to the polls in November to send a clear message to 
Congress and to the administration. They


are against this war and they want a successful exit plan. Americans 
see that we are spending 8 to $10 billion a month to fight this war, 
while in our own country we have 47 million Americans without health 
care insurance and our national debt is almost $9 trillion.

Mr. Speaker, my Democratic colleagues and I hear the American people 
loud and clear. They want oversight of this war. They want to know the 
hard facts of the situation on the ground in Iraq, instead of the rosy 
picture the Bush administration tries to paint. They want 
investigations of and an end to the shady contracting in Iraq that has 
given away billions of American dollars without so much as a receipt. 
They want assurances that our troops will be protected.

Mr. Speaker, even though it was a mistake of titanic proportions to 
initiate this war, now that Iraq has been destabilized, what are we to 
do? The answer cannot be more of the same, because what we are doing is 
failing to have a positive impact. Our troops have performed the 
difficult missions given to them in Iraq with courage.

Congress and the American people will continue to support them and 
provide them with every resource they need. 320 soldiers from my home 
State of California have died in this war. We can never repay our debt 
to their faithful service and the sacrifices made by their families.

The failure in Iraq is not a failure of our fighting men and women. 
It is a failure of command, a failure of political leadership. We must 
provide our troops and their families with a new exit strategy instead 
of a new deployment.

The civil war in Iraq is not the product of ad hoc, spur-of-the-
moment individual violence. No. It is organized and it is a strategy of 
various political and sectarian factions in Iraq. Putting our troops in 
the middle of these warring factions will not end the violence. It will 
only put our troops in the middle of it. That notion is borne out by 
the fact that more than 60 percent of the Iraqi public believes that it 
is a good thing to attack and kill Americans stationed in Iraq.

Proponents of the President's escalation plan act as if the United 
States has but two options: one, increase the American troops at great 
cost, both in human lives and financial; or, two, do nothing. But those 
are not the only choices. We must step up our diplomatic efforts in the 
region as recommended by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group.

Americans should call upon neighboring states in the Middle East to 
take strong measures to avoid a spread of the conflict beyond Iraq. As 
Iraq disintegrates into sectarian violence, her neighbors must insist 
that the factions within Iraq halt their civil war.

We need to remind the countries in the region that stability in Iraq 
is vital to their interests. If they want to avoid having this war 
spill out across the Middle East, they must step up their diplomatic 
efforts. With the help of the entire region, we can push the Iraqis to 
help themselves.

Iraqi security forces must be trained in a faster pace so they can be 
responsible for their own country. There is no guarantee of success in 
Iraq, nor is there a clear definition of what success might look like; 
but we do have a moral obligation to make our best efforts to diffuse 
the chaos the war has created. The solution must be a political and a 
diplomatic one.

Unfortunately, the President refuses to pursue the diplomatic options 
endorsed by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and his own military 
advisors. As we saw today with the welcome news that diplomatic efforts 
have led to the de-escalation of tensions in North Korea and an 
agreement to abandon their nuclear weapons ambition, a conflict is not 
always the right answer to world challenges.

Even General Abizaid, the outgoing top commander of the U.S. forces 
in Iraq, does not believe an escalation will increase our chances of 
American success. The American public has long been ahead of Congress 
in their opposition to this war.

I am here today to tell the American people that they are being 
heard. I stand with the majority of Americans who say they have had 
enough. In the coming weeks and days, Congress will give the 
President's plan the scrutiny the American people expect and our troops 
deserve. It is time to bring this war to an end and time to support 
this resolution