# None
## `a1f26d6f0283a84d5dd99a8eb9f44a7c`
`Mr. COURTNEY — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, it is with great sadness that I rise 
today to honor Sergeant Steven J. DeLuzio, of Glastonbury, Connecticut. 
Steven was killed on August 22, 2010 when insurgents attacked his unit 
in Paktika, Afghanistan. I had the honor of attending the funeral 
service for Steven in which hundreds of friends, relatives and others 
took time to honor his life, his service, and his sacrifice.

 For those who knew Steven, they talk of a man who was passionate 
about life, about service and about sports. Steven played four years of 
varsity ice hockey and was an avid Yankees fan in part just because his 
father loved the Red Sox. Our thoughts are with Steven's father Mark 
and his mother Diane. My heart goes out to his brother Scott, his 
fiance Leeza Gutt, and the scores of friends and family members who had 
the privilege of knowing Steven DeLuzio.

 Steven graduated from Glastonbury High School in 2003 and joined the 
Vermont National Guard after being motivated by the attacks of 
September 11th. He was deployed to Iraq in 2006 and was awarded the 
Iraq Campaign Medal and Combat Infantryman Badge. After returning home, 
Steven was again deployed to Afghanistan in March 2010.

 Sergeant Steven DeLuzio led a life that serves as an example to all. 
I ask all of my colleagues to join with me, and the people of 
Connecticut, in honoring Sergeant Steven J. DeLuzio for his sacrifice. 
Our thoughts and our prayers are with the DeLuzio family in their time 
of need.
