---
---

# RECOGNIZING AND HONORING MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS
## `a1fe17d3de3aab8673a273d76e017ed7`
`Mr. SKELTON — 25 May 2010`

---


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, May is Military Appreciation Month; and to honor our men 
and women and uniform and our veterans, I, along with my good friend 
and ranking member from California (Mr. McKeon), have introduced H. 
Res. 1385.

Mr. Speaker, I grew up around veterans of the First World War. My 
father served in the Navy onboard the U.S.S. Missouri in that conflict; 
and he, like so many young men who returned from that war, became the 
civic and political leaders of their day.

Tom Brokaw wrote a best-selling book entitled, ''The Greatest 
Generation,'' the saga of those who fought the two-front Second World 
War. These veterans changed the complexion of our country in every walk 
of life. Their experiences in war, sometimes on the battlefield, 
instilled in them tremendous confidence and a sense of duty and, like 
the generation of war veterans before them, the World War I veterans, 
returned to hometowns across America, large and small, to become 
leaders in their communities.

In 1950, President Harry S. Truman ordered U.S. military intervention 
on the Korean peninsula. In many respects, our participation in the 
Korean conflict has served as a model for the way our military operates 
today. Korea was the first multilateral United Nations operation, and 
it has become the longest standing peacekeeping operation in modern 
times. While we are inclined to remember the leaders who ultimately 
brought us victory in the Korean War--Truman, MacArthur, Acheson, 
Walker, and Ridgeway--it's really the men and women who served so 
bravely to whom we pay tribute.

The need to contain the spread of communism brought U.S. 
servicemembers to a small country in Southeast Asia called Vietnam. It 
was 1964 when Congress passed the Gulf of Tonkin resolution and 1973 
before the last U.S. combat troops left Vietnam. Much is owed to the 
men and women who served in that conflict, and it must be remembered 
that those who fought and died in service to the United States in 
Southeast Asia are owed the appreciation of a grateful Nation, even 
though so many did not receive the welcome home that they deserved.

The Persian Gulf War was a tremendous display of U.S. military 
technology, but what must not be forgotten is that the swift end to 
combat operations was the result of a sound strategy and the ability of 
U.S. service personnel to carry out that strategy.

And of course today our men and women in uniform are engaged in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. I predict those returning from these conflicts will be 
another great generation. Rising from the sands of the Middle East, 
these veterans, who have toiled and fought there to bring peace and 
civilization back to those two beleaguered countries, are truly 
America's future.

In addition to large-scale conflicts, U.S. military forces have been 
involved in far more small-scale contingency operations. In each 
instance, in numbers both large and small, the men and women of the 
United States' armed services have answered the Nation's call.

So let us remember the importance of those who wore the uniform and 
those who wear it today. They have served this Nation, and now we must 
do right by them in Congress, in our communities, and in our everyday 
lives. Today, we honor their courage and their sacrifice, and to all of 
them we say thank you.





















 House of Representatives,

















 Committee on Veterans' Affairs,



















 Washington, DC, May 21, 2010.


 Hon. Ike Skelton,


 Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, Rayburn Building, 




 House of Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Chairman Skelton: On May 20, 2010, H. Res. 1385, 


 recognizing and honoring the courage and sacrifice of members 


 of the Armed Forces and veterans was introduced in the House 


 of Representatives. This measure was sequentially referred to 


 the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.



 The Committee on Veterans' Affairs recognizes the 


 importance of H. Res. 1385 and the need to move this 


 resolution expeditiously in order to honor the courage and 


 sacrifice of members of the Armed Forces and veterans. 


 Therefore, while we have valid jurisdictional claims to this 


 resolution, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs will waive 


 further consideration of H. Res. 1385. The Committee does so 


 with the understanding that by waiving further consideration 


 of this resolution it does not waive any future 


 jurisdictional claims over similar measures.



 I would appreciate the inclusion of this letter and a copy 


 of your response in the Congressional Record during 


 consideration of H. Res. 1385 on the House floor.





 Sincerely,



























 Bob Filner,


 Chairman.