# DISCONTINUING BUSINESS AS USUAL
## `a2092843e19bb40eaaeee975538980b5`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 12 December 2007`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we should be frank as to where we are 
today. The situation is not good. Yes, we do have too much partisanship 
in this body, and we need to move beyond it. But I wish to ask a couple 
of questions. I think we might as well talk about it directly and 
honestly: Has this Congress performed well this year? I say we have 
not. We passed only one appropriations bill, and it is almost 
Christmas. They all should have been passed before the end of the 
fiscal year, September 30. Only one has been passed. No wonder the 
polling data shows Congress has the lowest respect of the public in our 
history. I know that in this last election, my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle campaigned strenuously: Elect us and we will do 
better. Elect us and we will balance the budget and we will be fiscally 
responsible; the Republicans aren't fiscally responsible. We will do 
things in a better way, and we will run the Senate in a better way. For 
the majority, I have to say it is incontrovertible that that has not 
occurred. In fact, we are about to vote--perhaps, because who knows 
what may happen in the last hours--but the momentum is in place and the 
goal is to bring forward an omnibus bill that has all but one 
appropriations bill in it, no telling what other legislation in it. It 
is going to be hundreds, perhaps 1,000-plus pages. It is going to be 
dropped here. It is going to make this Agriculture bill look like a 
dime novel. They are going to say: Vote for it. It is going to be over 
budget and it is going to try to put constraints on our military 
commanders in Iraq, telling them how to deploy our troops. It is not 
going to be accepted by the President. It is not going to be accepted 
by the American people.

So we are in a big deal. We are heading to a real collision course, 
and my colleagues on the other side are trying to blame people on this 
side for it. I don't think that is legitimate; I really don't.

Senator Cornyn has shown at great length how little has been done 
this last month. We have only had 10 votes. Is that right, Senator 
Cornyn? In the last 31 days, 10 votes. Why is that? Is this hard to do? 
It is not hard to have votes. You can have 10 votes a day. We have had 
days where we have had 40 votes or more a day. We are not having votes 
because the majority party, led by the majority leader, Senator Reid, 
doesn't want to vote. Senator Reid is a good friend and a person I like 
and respect, but he has a group of people there and they don't want to 
vote, because votes define you. You can talk all kinds of platitudes, 
but when a vote comes up, are you going to vote for money for our 
soldiers or not? Are you going to vote to tell General Petraeus how to 
deploy his troops or not? Are you going to vote to fund Defense? Are 
you going to vote to crack down on illegal immigration or not? So they 
don't want to vote. That puts them on record.

They are trying to move all of this pork, all this funding, all of 
those appropriations bills in one colossal package, and they want to 
have the absolute minimum number of votes to avoid being on record on 
important issues--issues that Americans care about; issues that are 
important to America.

But I will tell my colleagues the big deal. The big deal in this--and 
we might as well be honest about it--what are we going to do about our 
troops who are right there on the eve of Christmas serving us in harm's 
way?

Let me read an e-mail given to me by a father-in-law of a soldier in 
Iraq. It was sent in October. You know, we have had a tremendous 
reduction in violence in the last several months. Things have gone 
better than I would have thought possible in June. I believe General 
Petraeus's strategy is working in a way that I didn't think would be so 
positive. There is a long way to go, though, and this e-mail indicates 
that it is still tough.

He talks about his staff sergeant, a man of the highest character, 
who was killed by a sniper:




 The loss affected us all significantly. He was a ranger and 


 a jump master that constantly led his men from the front. 


 The men performed heroically and magnificently. After he 


 was hit, myself and our medic were attending to him within 


 seconds. We were receiving fire from multiple locations 


 and the boys were hitting them back hard. We did get the 


 sniper and he is no longer a threat to




 any of our forces. Still, more are out there, 


 unfortunately. Four days later we had another one of our 


 leaders hit by an IED.


He goes on to say this:




 I have been reading in the newspapers and trying to figure 


 out why some political powers are openly encouraging the 


 enemy to embolden themselves and display the disdain to 


 attack us daily. If all these presidential candidates would 


 admit to the public what they already know, this would be 


 easier. They voted for us to be here. They authorized the 


 President to use force.


And so forth.

I want to say our men and women are there. They are serving us. We 
have seen tremendous progress, and we don't need to tell General 
Petraeus, who is doing a fabulous job, how to deploy his troops. The 
President cannot and will not accept that. We need to fund them. 
General Petraeus promised that in March he would be back before this 
Congress and hopefully, he implied, to announce further reductions in 
our troops. Let's do this. Let's don't have this gimmick in which all 
the appropriations bills are put into one, the supplemental for our 
troops is put into it, and try to put the President in a position where 
he is forced to veto legislation that ought not to be. We ought to take 
care of our soldiers first, get that done, and we can fight over these 
other matters at some time.

I know other people are here who wish to speak. I will offer this 
unanimous consent request for S. 2400.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed 
Services be discharged from further consideration of S. 2400, the 
Wounded Warrior Bonus Equity Act, and that the Senate proceed to its 
immediate consideration. I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read 
the third time and passed and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the 
table.