---
---

# SUPPORTING DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT WEEK
## `a20ac053856527f5385126facc4b9247`
`Mr. FILNER — 30 November 2010`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I have had the honor, privilege of chairing the Veterans' Affairs 
Committee for the last 4 years. The voters of this Nation have changed 
the party in charge, and so I think this will probably be my last day 
on the floor as the chairman. I just want to thank the veterans of this 
Nation from around the country and around the world. I have met with 
them. They have changed me as a person. I have learned incredible 
amounts from them. I have learned how much we have to do to fulfill our 
commitment to our Nation's veterans.

I think we have done a lot in this committee for the last 4 years. 
Some of our staff is here, and I want to thank them because they have 
made it all possible. In fact, Mr. Speaker, we have a fellow from the 
Military Fellows Program who worked with us for a year that the Speaker 
set up for us to bring in the military folks from different services 
and from different occupations to both help us and to help them with a 
year on Capitol Hill. One of those is completing his year just about 
now, Ricco Player. We want to thank you, Ricco, for all of your work. 
As a marine, he is going to be deployed to Afghanistan after Christmas, 
so we wish him the best but we want to thank him for the work. He has 
taught us a lot, and hope that you will bring back some of our 
knowledge to your fellow marines.



In the last 4 years, Mr. Speaker, we have added almost $25 billion to 
the health care needs of our veterans. That is over a 65 percent 
increase. That is unprecedented in the history of VA to have such an 
increase, and we needed to do that. We have literally hundreds of 
thousands of new veterans, many with brain injury, many with PTSD, 
post-traumatic stress disorder. We have veterans from Vietnam War who 
are aging, and even earlier wars, obviously. So we have tremendous 
need, and we put in billions of dollars into especially mental health 
care of our Nation's veterans.

We wrote a GI bill for the 21st century which matched the GI bill 
really from 1944, the original GI bill.



I don't know about you, Mr. Speaker, but I'm here because of the GI 
Bill. My dad came back from the war. He got some education, and we were 
able to buy a house. We were middle class for the first time in our 
lives because of the GI Bill, like 8 million other families who took 
advantage of that.

So we have brought those benefits in line to what it really costs to 
go to college. As you have seen today, we have worked on homeless 
veterans, and we have worked on women veterans. We have tried to 
improve access for rural veterans. We have done quite a bit.

I am looking forward to working with our counterparts in the new 
Congress to continue the progress that we have made for veterans. We 
intend to cooperate fully. Mr. Roe has been very good to work with.

I am not sure who the chairman will be from your side, but we have 
established, I think, good working relationships with nearly every 
member of your committee.

So, as we conclude this bill, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank again the 
staff of our committee. I want to thank the staffs on both sides of the 
aisle for their work and for doing so much for veterans during the last 
4 years.

I would urge passage of the Kind bill, H. Res. 1644.

I yield back the balance of my time.