---
---

# HEALTH CARE REFORM
## `a22c7008c0e8f9f855d909df05837878`
`Mr. KING of Iowa — 23 September 2009`

---


Mr. KING of Iowa. As I listen to the descriptions that have been 
delivered here in ways by the three of us tonight, it takes me back to 
a memory that I believe 1984 was the year, if I remember correctly, 
that Jeane Kirkpatrick stepped down as the Ambassador to the United 
Nations. It wasn't a very big article. It was a little thing, about 
page 3 or 4, and it was in the Des Moines Register. I read that, and it 
stuck with me all that time.

I should go back and get it verbatim, but I am very close. She said 
we are in the middle of the cold war. If you remember, it was the 
height of the cold war at that time and Reagan's first term.

She said, what is going on in this cold war, this great clash of the 
two titan superpowers, is the equivalent of playing chess and monopoly 
on the same board. The only question is--remember the arms race? The 
only question is will the United States of America bankrupt the Soviet 
Union before they checkmate us militarily? Do we bankrupt the Soviet 
Union economically before the Soviet Union checkmates us militarily?

We know what happened as it unfolded. On November 9, 1989, 20 years 
coming up here in a month and a half will be the celebration of 20 
years of the Berlin Wall come crashing down. That wasn't just the 
symbol of the Iron Curtain, that was the Iron Curtain. The Soviet 
Union's economy couldn't sustain this.

Well, Putin has said that's the greatest disaster of his time. Now we 
have watched him out on this chessboard seeking to checkmate the free 
world. It's very early in Putin's game, however, while he understands 
the monopoly game a little better, having actually built some wealth at 
least temporarily with the high energy prices that he has. We have 
watched Putin maneuver around the globe.

I would point out that the Russians went in and essentially made an 
offer in Kyrgyzstan that they couldn't refuse. They are in Kyrgyzstan. 
They cancelled the lease that we had on our airstrips that were there, 
which shut off our ability to be able to freight military supplies into 
Afghanistan. The Russians did that.

Then they had the temerity to turn to us and say, oh, never fear. We 
will be happy to haul that freight in for you for a price, and you can 
always trust us to do that in a reliable fashion. With a straight face, 
go in and interfere in our relations with Kyrgyzstan and make them a 
better offer than we are making, then turn around and say now that we 
have this under control, we will make sure that we will freight this 
equipment in, and you can trust your military operations are going to 
continue. That's one piece of the chessboard.

Another piece of the chessboard that Putin is playing is a little 
over a year ago he went in and invaded Georgia. He shut down the oil 
that went through Georgia. If I remember right, it's 1.2 billion 
barrels of oil a day that goes through Georgia on a pipeline. There is 
a train that hauls crude oil through Georgia. They have got natural gas 
pipelines that go through Georgia. The nation of Georgia is, if you are 
a chess player, it is the square on the chessboard that if you will 
notice, in a highly contested game, it almost invariably comes down to 
where you have a whole series of pieces that are focused on one square.

Someone will put some pressure on a square on the board, and the 
other--the opponent will have to put a competing piece to cover that, 
and then you back it up with another, another, another. That square 
becomes the whole game that is going to be fought out in that single 
square.

Georgia is the square. It's the square that energy has to go through 
from the energy that's on the east side of the Caspian Sea to get 
through Georgia to get over to the Black Sea where it can go on out and 
then into the shipping lanes in the rest of the world and go on around 
Europe and everywhere else. Natural gas and lots of it, oil, and a good 
supply of it, and Putin went in and controlled it. Now he has backed 
off a little bit, but he has said he can do whatever he wants to shut 
that oil off.


What do we hear from the Germans, for example? They say, well, of 
course a nuclear powered Iran is preferable to a military strike to 
take it out, as if that was an unquestionable fact. In reality, they 
haven't done the calculation what Mr. Franks calls nuclear jihad.

Additionally, the Russians shut off the fuel going through, the gas 
going through to Germany a year ago. It was a year ago January that 
happened. The Germans said, well, don't worry about that, that's only 
about 30 percent of our overall gas supply so it really doesn't put 
that much of a crimp in us. And, by the way, we have created some 
alternatives. We are going to build another pipeline that comes through 
in the north. From where? Russia, to make themselves more dependent on 
it.

As I watch Putin make these moves around the world and bring the 
resources into Iran that Mr. Franks has talked about, and we are naive 
enough, myopically naive enough to accept or even consider that there 
is a rational argument that somehow the President capitulated on 
missiles in Eastern Europe and he got a quid pro quo of some kind for 
it. I would pose this question beyond rhetorical: Is there anything in 
either one of your gentlemen's imagination that would be worth pulling 
the missiles out of Eastern Europe and capitulating and betraying the 
Poles and the Czechs and the rest of the region when they say that we 
have sold them out and stabbed them in the back, sold them out to the 
Russians and stabbed them in the back? How could a President get a 
trade, a quid pro quo? What could it possibly be?

I had one of the defenders of the White House say to me, well, it 
would be because surely the President got something for it. Maybe he 
got a promise that Putin would help negotiate with Iran to slow down 
their nuclear development capability.

Really. It's been expanded.