---
---

# WALTER REED MEDICAL CENTER
## `a2479507214111b223cb1c315fe1cf32`
`Ms. NORTON — 7 March 2007`

---


Ms. NORTON. I thank the gentleman for those observations, indeed. 
Your notion that they have got to change and they have got to change 
now is where we ought to be focused. You spoke about the heart-
wrenching testimony, by the way, testimonies under oath. Just like the 
brass was under oath, so was the wife. She left her home, gave up her 
job to come be with her husband, has been there for months, lost in the 
Never Never Land of, is he going to go out on disability? Will he be 
returned to his company? The man had been in the National Guard for 16 
years, for goodness sake.

If you are not going to tell him one way or the other what he is 
going to do, you're disrupting his life, you're disrupting his entire 
family's life, and time after time, that was the story we heard.

I want the gentleman to know, we had all the brass before us as well. 
You have never seen so much brass, the Secretary of the Army. We had 
the former commander at Walter Reed, Kevin Kiley, who has been now 
kicked upstairs. He is the U.S. Army surgeon general. It actually was 
on his watch that most of these problems emerged. We had the major 
general, George Weightman, who was recently fired. He had only been 
there 6 months, so he was the fall guy it looks like. We had the Vice 
Chief of Staff of the Army. They all came. And, by the way, when they 
heard the testimony you just spoke of, they harbored their apologies to 
the families sitting in back of them. That's the least they could have 
done.

I do want you to know, I say to my good friend, that when it came 
time for me to ask questions, I focused on something I happened to know 
well, that Walter Reed in the middle of a war was put on the base 
realignment closing list. Think about this: Walter Reed is on the list 
of military installations to be closed in the middle of the war on 
terrorism and the Iraq war. We tried to keep that from happening.

Something very important has happened as a result of the testimony. I 
asked the generals, on second thought, don't you think it would have 
been best to postpone any notion that Walter Reed would be closed, 
because that sends a signal to staff, clinical staff, staff of all 
kinds, that if you value your careers, this is not the place to come?



And yet this is where you need the best personnel in the world. And 
to the man, each said, that should be rethought. And I want to say this 
evening to my good colleague and friend that I will be introducing 
tomorrow a quite unusual bill to repeal the decision to close Walter 
Reed in order to stabilize staff there, as a first step to say to 
Walter Reed: We hear you. At least we are not going to send the message 
to your best personnel, leave this place as soon as you can.