# LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
## `a24f74a5eb42dd87b5ac5750321df140`
`Mr. HOYER — 10 April 2008`

---


Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

First, let me say that last week, and I would reiterate the comment, 
I don't think I spoke to when the committee would move on it. What I 
did say was that hopefully the supplemental would be on the floor 
either the last week in April or the first week in May. I don't think 
that I referenced the committee consideration of that. I still believe 
that is the case.

With respect to your second question as to what might be on the 
supplemental, obviously it has not been marked up in committee. There 
are discussions, as have been reported in the public press, with 
respect to either language that might be appended to that by the 
committee or by the House itself. I would not want to preclude that 
effort.

I want to say that it is my understanding that the President has made 
a comment today again that what I sent you and the dollar I sent you, 
not a penny more will I sign.

I will tell my friend, I don't think that is particularly useful. It 
continues to say from the President of the United States to the 
Congress of the United States, which is, after all, the policymaking 
body of this country under the Constitution, ''What I propose you take, 
or we'll leave it. We'll not do anything other.''

I would hope to have discussions on this. As you know, the economy is 
in crisis. It is very nice to give money to Iraq. As you know, I 
support funding our troops. Having said that, we have people in crisis 
in housing, we have people in crisis in jobs, we have people in crisis 
without health care, and we have people in crisis with their 
educational expenses. We have a lot of people in this country who are 
in trouble.

We think that they need to know that the Congress of the United 
States is responding to their issues as well as to the issues that the 
President brings up with respect to Iraq.

So I don't want to commit us to simply doing exactly what the 
President asks, or apparently thinks he can tell us to do. We don't 
think that is the process.

