# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a267ed7ec100f790d4061d9e4c51a688`
`Ms. WATERS — 1 July 2010`

---


Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker and Members, I rise in support of the rule. A 
lot of people have put in a lot of work to organize this supplemental 
in ways that many of us would have the opportunity to support.

I am focused on several aspects, but I am particularly focused on the 
amendment that will be brought before us by Barbara Lee. Barbara Lee 
has an amendment that basically would strip the funding that is 
dedicated to the war in Afghanistan and redirect those funds so that we 
can safely withdraw from an Army that has less and less support of the 
American people.

And while I will not get into details about my support for that 
amendment at this time--I will be speaking on it later--I wish to 
congratulate the leadership and our Rules Committee members for the 
hard work that they have put in in organizing the rule on the 
supplemental. It has not been easy. There are a lot of concerns. There 
are a lot of demands. We have a lot of needs that need to be addressed.

So while we are wrestling with addressing the needs of our domestic 
community and our domestic concerns, we still have to be concerned 
about the direction that the war is taking and what that means for the 
future of this country. While we are bogged down in a serious deficit, 
the moneys that we are spending on this war must be reconsidered in 
ways that will eventually wind this war down and give us an opportunity 
to focus on our domestic needs.



So I would ask my colleagues to support the rule on this 
supplemental.