# PROCEDURAL TACTICS
## `a26b5ffe7ae8f2a748d71cb55be5bdef`
`Mr. INHOFE â€” 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, the Senator from Nevada expressed my 
feelings in a much more articulate way than I ever could, and one of 
the last things he said is: Mistakes have been made in this war. I 
would suggest mistakes have been made in every war. Winston Churchill 
once said:




 Never, never, never believe any war will be smooth and 


 easy. Always remember, however sure you are that you could 


 easily win, that there would not be a war if the other man 


 did not think he also had a chance to win.


This statement was made many years ago, but it is relevant today. 
Today, we face an enemy who is determined, adaptive, and willing to go 
to any means of terror and violence to win. He cannot be negotiated 
with, and he will not be satisfied until the entire world is brought 
under his dreadful ideology.

We have seen this kind before. We saw it with Stalin, with Pol Pot, 
and with Hitler, but never before has an enemy metastasized this way. 
There is no centralized headquarters we can bomb, no one leader we can 
eliminate. We will continue to strike terrorism where it appears and 
track down its leaders but know this will not end the conflict. Victory 
will come the way it always has. We will destroy the enemy's belief he 
can win.

Any resolution against the President's plan does two things: It tells 
the enemy, No. 1, that they have been successful; and, No. 2, it gives 
them patience to wait us out. They are a very patient people. We have 
already done ourselves damage by bringing the issue to the public eye. 
Do you believe they do not watch our news; that they are not scouring 
our media for any hope or any chink in our resolve? Don't be so naive. 
Their very survival depends on it. This is the only way they can hope 
to win. If we cannot destroy their will, we will destroy them.

This sounds brutal and not very reconciling, but I intend it that 
way. There is a clear choice and no other option. If we do not fight 
them in Iraq, we will be fighting them in Philadelphia, in Pittsburgh, 
in Kansas City, in Los Angeles, and in Seattle. We will be playing 
defensive until, once again, just as occurred after 9/11, our resolve 
hardens and we summon up the courage to destroy the enemy. And we must 
because the alternative is what happened to Rome: Factions of internal 
strife kept the great power tied up for so long that it lost its 
strength, its will, and its resolve. The period following was known as 
the Dark Ages, and this is indeed what al-Qaida seeks.

Our country represents the light of freedom and democracy. Yet I fear 
we have begun a terrible introspective and downward cycle. Our resolve 
lasts for a few months, maybe a year, but all it takes is enough time 
and then we break. Our enemy knows this. We can look to our mission in 
Somalia in 1933, at our reaction to the bombings in Lebanon at the 
Khobar Towers and in Vietnam. I am not saying we necessarily should 
have stayed in Vietnam, but I am saying we must recognize that while 
this introspection guarantees our freedom, it is also our greatest 
weakness.

There have been no major terrorist attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11. 
There have been attempts, and we know we have thwarted over 10 
operations. However, we also know these were relatively underdeveloped 
and small in scale. I wish to ask a dark question: Why has al-Qaida not 
struck again? Because they cannot? We have stepped up our security, but 
they have shown their destructive creativity in the past. Because they 
are focused on Iraq and Afghanistan? Perhaps. But I would suggest 
another option. What if they have chosen not to. What if they have 
realized the strategy of restraint, pricking us just enough to launch 
ourselves at them, and then they fade back. We expend ourselves 
attacking new enemies, building countries, and undermining each other. 
Politics and personal reputations create an impetus of their own.

We should debate. That is exactly what the Senate body is intended to 
do. But do not undermine. The new commander in Iraq, General Petraeus, 
has stated that a resolution of disapproval would hurt his efforts. 
This is the new guy. Let us keep in mind that we voted unanimously to 
confirm General Petraeus to take over that very difficult job. When 
asked by Senator Lieberman about the effect a resolution of disapproval 
would have on our troops and our enemies, General Petraeus stated that:




 This is a test of will at the end of the day. A commander 


 in such an endeavor would obviously like the enemy to feel 


 there is no hope.


That is what General Petraeus said. He went on to say he does need 
more troops and he believes the new plan can work.

I recognize there have been mistakes made in Iraq, as we have talked 
about. The President has also recognized this.


Everyone has recognized this, and the President has taken full 
responsibility for it. Yet we still find ourselves in a difficult 
situation, with hard decisions to be made about the best way ahead. 
These decisions affect many lives, both our soldiers in harm's way and 
the American people they are pledged to protect. I think we all agree 
it would be disastrous to leave Iraq precipitously. If we do, we know 
we can expect increased levels of violence, the spread of extremist 
ideology, and Iraq itself collapsing into anarchy.

A personal friend of mine, who actually was a commander at Fort Sill 
in Oklahoma, General Maples, stated that:




 Continued Coalition presence is the primary counter to a 


 breakdown in central authority. Such a breakdown would have 


 grave consequences for the people of Iraq, stability in the 


 region, and the U.S. strategic interest.



 John Negroponte and the CIA Director, General Hayden agree 


 with that, as does General Petraeus. So it is not too late to 


 avoid this. I don't think it is time to start cutting our 


 losses and just hope it goes away. We have heard the 


 President ask for our support.


Let me share, on a personal note, that I have had the occasion to be 
in Iraq more than any other Member of either the House or the Senate, 
some 12 times now, and the first thing I do is talk to the troops. The 
troops come up to me, and the first question they ask is: Why is it the 
media doesn't like us? Why is it they are constantly undermining our 
efforts here? Why is it the American people don't understand or 
appreciate what we are doing? I say, yes, the American people do, but a 
lot of the politicians don't act that way.

I have been very much concerned about this, and I believe any 
resolution, and we are talking about five or six resolutions now, any 
resolution that is a resolution of retreat would be a resolution of 
surrender.

I think it is ludicrous for any Member to say I support the troops 
but I don't support their mission. You try to explain that to them. I 
talked to the troops in Fallujah. In all this discussion about, do we 
need to be training the Iraqis to be fighting their own war--sure we 
do. That is what we have been doing. We have been doing that since we 
arrived on the scene in Iraq, and they are very proud and they are 
taking the frontal positions right now. The Iraqis are doing a good 
job. Their training has been good. Their equipment is not good, but it 
is getting better, it is improving.

I stood there at the last election in Fallujah when our marines were 
there and I talked, through an interpreter, to the Iraqi security 
forces, and they said they are very proud. We are going to be in a 
position--please stay with us until we can hold our own here, and that 
won't be too long. I know that is true. I know they have come up with 
the numbers, now, that would be equal to about 10 divisions. I believe 
this can happen.

This is very serious. Politics has crept into this thing. But any 
support of a resolution of surrender not only is undermining our troops 
and saying to our troops: We don't support you, but also saying to the 
loved ones of those who paid the ultimate sacrifice that they have died 
in vain. We can't let that happen.

I yield the floor.