---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `a2731b1a0d85aa72962346343e7c7299`
`Mr. WARNER — 26 April 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise to express my strong opposition to 
this measure before the Senate, and I will cast my vote against it.

This measure places undue constraints on the utilization of our brave 
military, together with our allies working with us and, indeed, 
constraints on the utilization of the Iraqi military, which likewise 
has followed through with a brave performance with our forces.

This is a very complex situation on the battlefield, and in the 
government, with respect to Iraq. Last fall, with other Senators, I 
returned from my eighth visit to Iraq and I said the complexity of the 
battlefield has forced the sovereign nation of Iraq to ''drift 
sideways.'' Regrettably, it continues, in my judgment, to drift. Our 
forces, and indeed our allies in that country, have fought bravely and 
are following through on their mission to try and bring about a greater 
degree of security in Baghdad.

While I expressed some concerns about the ''surge'' operation when it 
was announced on January 10, it is an ongoing operation now. We are 
losing life and limb daily, and we must allow our troops to be properly 
funded to carry out their missions.

Now, we heard yesterday from General Petraeus, and in my judgment, he 
gave a very factual, pragmatic, professional military opinion, showing 
objectivity. He is to be commended and our forces bravely fighting 
under his command should likewise be commended as well.

I want to bring to the attention of my colleagues a comment made by 
our distinguished Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates, during his 
trip. He said, ''our commitment to Iraq is long-term, but it is not a 
commitment to have our young men and women patrolling Iraqi streets 
open-endedly.'' In no way does he question the long-term need for our 
Nation to show its resolve and commitment to give security to this 
region of the world. But he clearly says it is not open-ended.

We cannot ask our forces, nor the Iraqi forces, to risk life and limb 
during their missions, unless the Iraqi legislature and the government 
of Iraq begins to give an equal or greater measure of commitment to 
perform their responsibility to achieve political solutions. A military 
solution, we all acknowledge, will not alone achieve a strong, 
survivable, sovereign Iraq. A political solution and a framework of 
legal reconciliation is essential.

And we must, at this point in time, bring to light a serious 
potential problem, which I have been told, that the Iraqi legislature 
might possibly take a 2-month recess during July and August. That is 
not acceptable. An action of that consequence would severely hinder 
those of us, myself and others, who are looking at the greater issue 
beyond Iraq as to the impact on this region if the combined efforts of 
our country and other nations fail.

We are seeing some progress as it relates to the international group 
of nations coming together, the border nations are scheduled to meet a 
second time. It is through only political reconciliation measures and 
bold leadership by the Prime Minister and each and every Member of the 
Iraqi Legislature, that this conflict can bring forth a stable, 
sovereign government, that is fully functioning, and is capable of 
providing for its own security. In so doing, Iraq will then be able to 
play an integral role in the security of this region.

Further, we must again, and again, signal to Prime Minister Maliki 
and to each of the Members of the Iraqi Legislature that they must do 
their job in a timely manner because every day Iraqi and American lives 
are being lost in their heroic effort to provide the security for the 
Iraqi government to function.

Finally, while I will vote against this report, I pledge to work with 
other Senators on how to rewrite the next bill, following the veto 
process, for these funds are essential for our troops and as we draft 
the next bill, we must we must assure the world of our resolve and 
commitment to the region.

I yield the floor so that others may speak.