---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `a279d1153af2b24cb3d6218ae1b1281b`
`Mr. BOND — 10 November 2009`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, tomorrow our Nation will honor the thousands 
of men and women who have answered the call to support and defend the 
Constitution of the United States of America against all enemies. Today 
I rise to pay tribute to these veterans and their commitment to the 
cause of freedom. These brave men and women are ones throughout ages 
who have made the contribution, who made the efforts, and some made the 
ultimate sacrifice to keep our country free. We owe them no less than 
our heartfelt thanks.

In Kansas City, MO, we are very proud to have a facility called the 
Liberty Memorial which was set up many years ago as the only memorial 
to World War I veterans. That facility continues today to be a very 
proud part of the Kansas City heritage. We want to make sure that as we 
look back and honor the veterans of World War I, we recognize that this 
was the first, the best, and the most outstanding memorial to the 
veterans of World War I. I ask my colleagues to work with us as we 
appropriately recognize and elevate the Liberty Memorial to the status 
it deserves in honoring the men and women who served in that very 
difficult First World War.

But also as we mark this Veterans Day, the massacre of 13 of our 
servicemembers at Fort Hood Texas is in all of our hearts.

It is unthinkable that the brave men and women in our military, who 
already sacrifice so much when they go forward on the battlefield to 
fend off attacks, now find the attacks can come at home. But in the 
midst of this horrific tragedy, our Nation has also witnessed the 
courage, the heroism, and the quick thinking we have come to expect 
from our military personnel and law enforcement.

There are many questions that need to be answered, and as vice 
chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and also as the father of 
a marine and as an American, I want answers about how this could have 
happened and whether we could have prevented it. What do we learn from 
this? How do we take steps to make sure it doesn't happen again? I want 
to find out the who, what, when, where, if anything, our intelligence 
community knew and whether such information was shared with the 
appropriate action agencies.

Whatever those answers turn out to be, we must ensure that our Nation 
remains vigilant against the threat of terrorism both from within and 
outside of the United States; that our law enforcement and intelligence 
agencies and our military have the tools and resources they need to 
defend and protect us here at home and abroad; and that their vigilance 
is never hampered by unreasonable restrictions on the use of those 
tools that end up aiding only the terrorists. In doing so, we will not 
only honor the memory of those men and women who died on this horrible 
day, in this unprovoked attack, but help save future men and women from 
such a fate.

It is fitting that we honor our veterans and pause to recognize the 
hardships and sacrifices they have endured throughout wars, conflicts, 
and many difficult times. We remember especially those men and women 
who gave their lives so that others--whether comrades, families, total 
strangers, or the rest of us--could live in freedom. We owe these 
heroes and their families our eternal gratitude and respect.

As a Senator from Missouri, I offer my very special thanks to the men 
and women in uniform and the men and women who have served in uniform 
from our State. In Missouri, the history of service is long and proud. 
My great State is home to Whiteman Air Force Base, Fort Leonard Wood, 
and many smaller Guard installations and bases. I am particularly proud 
of the work being done by the Missouri National Guard's Agricultural 
Development Team, currently in Afghanistan, where they are helping sow 
the seeds of peace and providing the security needed to ensure those 
seeds can grow.

We owe these heroes in Missouri and across the Nation a debt too 
large ever to repay. At the same time, we recognize the many 
accomplishments and victories of our military forces. Since the 
September 11 attacks on our country, we have witnessed their bravery 
and determination as they fought al-Qaida and other terrorists head-on. 
Even when naysayers here in Washington were predicting certain defeat 
in Iraq, these men and women soldiered on and turned the tide toward 
victory.

Turning to the battle we fight today, the battle in Afghanistan has 
been described by President Obama and many in this body as a war of 
necessity. The President has rightly said that we cannot retreat, we 
cannot fail, we cannot


be deterred from our efforts to counter the forces of evil in 
Afghanistan. But the voices who advocated cutting and running from 
Iraq, who predicted certain defeat, have been peddling the same 
pessimism with respect to Afghanistan.

Seven months ago, I was very encouraged when President Obama outlined 
a strategy--a full-blown strategy--for achieving success in 
Afghanistan. I strongly supported this strategy, and particularly the 
appointment of GEN Stanley McChrystal to lead our troops on the ground. 
Yet here we are, on the eve of Veterans Day, and the latest indications 
from the President are troubling. Instead of a firm commitment to his 
own strategy, there is indecision. Instead of trusting the judgment of 
his own hand-selected commander on the ground, there are endless war 
councils and sessions with commanders who are not on the ground. 
Instead of one strategy, there are now five. Instead of certainty, 
there is only one possibility; that is, that a decision may be made by 
November 19. That is no way to run a war, at least not if we want to 
win the war. Dithering and wavering are not viewed with favor in any 
situation. When the lives of our men and women are on the line and the 
threat from al-Qaida and the Taliban grows stronger every day--as 
General McChrystal said, they are growing stronger--these delays are 
simply unacceptable. Yet the delays continue, threatening to undo the 
hard work by our military and intelligence professionals on the 
battlefields of Afghanistan.

I have heard some congratulate the President for ''taking his time'' 
on such an important decision. As a father of a marine who served two 
tours of duty in Iraq, I agree that whenever we send Americans into 
battle to risk and possibly lose their lives, the decision must not be 
a hasty one. But it must not be unnecessarily delayed either. On the 
eve of Veterans Day, the gravity of this decision is even more moving.

As I said earlier, the President has been advised by General 
McChrystal that every day we wait, the Taliban is gaining momentum. Our 
allies are wondering where we are going to come down. Our troops are 
wondering if they are going to be supported. The people of Afghanistan, 
who are and must be the target, are wondering if they are ever going to 
see the troops they need. That is why I applauded the President for 
making the firm decision on his war strategy in March of this year, 
months after campaigning on what he called a war ''fundamental'' to the 
defense of our people, months after he was sworn in as our Commander in 
Chief.

As I said earlier, I also applauded President Obama for wisely 
choosing General McChrystal to implement his strategy for success in 
Afghanistan. The President was right to wait until hearing from his 
commander on the ground on what resources were needed before moving 
forward--an assessment that was delivered in July. Now we are hearing 
there are four other strategies, and what I want to know is: Who are 
the other four generals with responsibility for the troops on the 
ground, with responsibilities for their success, who are coming up with 
different strategies? We should learn one thing: When you are fighting 
a war, you need to listen to the commander whom you have selected and 
who is carrying out your strategy as you announced it. But now, as 
November goes by, months later, we are simply witnessing dangerous 
delay. Unfortunately, those in Washington whispering ''delay, delay, 
delay'' to the President are really whispering ''defeat.''

I urge the President to ignore the pundits peddling pessimism in 
Washington. Instead, as we honor our veterans for their sacrifices 
today and in the past, I urge the President to honor our brave troops 
currently on the battlefield. Mr. President, honor the commander in 
chief you chose by giving him the resources needed to succeed in 
Afghanistan. Mr. President, please honor our warfighters in Afghanistan 
by recommitting to your own strategy, ending this indecision in 
Afghanistan, and giving our troops the support they need to succeed. 
That would be the most fitting tribute to our veterans of past, 
present, and future wars. I hope this opportunity will not pass.

Mr. President, I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.