---
---

# None
## `a287ae5263688d79d3074eb163eef47d`
`Mr. BYRD — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, yesterday the Senate voted on an amendment 
offered by Senator Cornyn, amendment No. 2100, that states, in part, 
that it is the Sense of the Senate that the ''Senate should not pass 
legislation that will undermine our military's ability to prevent a 
failed state in Iraq.'' I opposed that amendment, but my vote should 
not be viewed as a lack of concern for the consequences of a failed 
Iraqi state.

I agree that it is not in the interest of the United States for Iraq 
and the rest of the Middle East to devolve into total chaos, and no one 
in this body argues differently. However, I opposed the amendment 
because it suggests that the United States Senate will be bound to a 
policy of supporting an endless U.S. military involvement in Iraq. By 
implying that it is our military's responsibility to prevent a failed 
state in Iraq, the Cornyn amendment suggests that it is up to our 
service men and women, now and into the future, to undo the missteps of 
an ill-conceived adventure directed by a reckless President.

The amendment fails to define what exactly a ''failed state'' is, nor 
how the U.S. military should go about preventing one. Some may not have 
noticed, but Iraq is perilously close to a reasonable definition of 
''failed state'' already. In the third annual ''failed state'' index, 
analysts for Foreign Policy magazine and the not-for-profit Fund for 
Peace said Iraq is now the second most unstable country in the world. 
Its standing deteriorated from last year's fourth place on a list of 
the 10 nations most vulnerable to violent internal conflict and 
worsening conditions.

Mr. President, I feel that we should be relentless in our efforts to 
bring Osama bin Laden to justice and to vanquish the al-Qaida terror 
network. This amendment, however, does not say anything new, and it 
does not imply a change in U.S. policy. What it does, however, is 
suggest that if the failing situation in Iraq does not improve, if the 
Iraqi government does not step up, if the sectarian violence that has 
persisted for over a millennia does not abate, the U.S. Senate should 
not take action that would allow us to modify the mission or withdraw 
forces--ever. That, Mr. President, is an extremely unwise and imprudent 
statement and an even more unwise policy.