# None
## `a287ecaf5d9ba25d020f0649ab9ae7b7`
`Mr. DOMENICI — 29 February 2008`

---


Mr. DOMENICI. I thank the Chair.

Mr. President, yesterday I spoke about the work we have done, and the 
challenges we still face, with regard to energy policy. I return to the 
floor today to complete my remarks.

I concluded yesterday by putting a pricetag on our dependence on 
imported oil. Experts estimate that foreign oil will cost us $400 
billion just this year. This expense will impact our economy in a 
number of ways, including our trade balance. In December 2007, imported 
crude oil accounted for 61 percent of the national trade deficit, or an 
all-time high of $36 billion. The trade deficit, propelled by high oil 
prices, has factored into the decline of the dollar.

Yesterday, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke testified that the cost of 
energy is being passed through and reflected in the increase in prices 
of core consumer goods and services. Other experts believe that 
increasing energy prices and lower economic growth could lead to a 
return of ''stagflation.''

Our dependence on foreign oil also has a negative impact on job 
creation in America. The National Defense


Council Foundation concluded that imported oil deprives the U.S. 
economy of more than 2.2 million jobs per year. Choosing to import oil 
to meet our energy needs exports more than our money--it also exports 
jobs. Choosing to produce energy here at home would keep those jobs 
within our borders, and help countless Americans earn a good living.

The National Defense Council Foundation also identified several more 
''hidden costs'' of oil imports, including oil-related defense 
expenditures, lost economic activity, reduced domestic investment, lost 
Government revenues, and the cost of periodic supply disruptions. 
Together, these total $825 billion per year, nearly four times the 
amount that America spent directly on acquisition of foreign oil in 
2005.

The money we export for oil flows directly into the economies of 
foreign nations around the world. Oil-producing nations spend these 
revenues on national defense, education, health care, social programs, 
infrastructure, financial instruments, and to bolster their own energy 
security. As these nations use American dollars to pay for investments 
in their own futures, we are forced to spend money we do not have, and 
forgo our own priorities.

The fact that many of the major oil-exporting nations are 
undemocratic only makes matters worse. We import much of our oil from 
Canada and Mexico. Unfortunately, beyond North America, most of our oil 
comes from countries such as Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Nigeria, Iraq, 
and Algeria. Worldwide, the top oil exporting nations also include 
Russia and Iran.

Many regimes in oil-rich nations are unstable and unfriendly. Anti-
Americanism is prevalent throughout the Middle East. The same Saudi 
lands that are used to produce 10 million barrels of oil per day also 
provide a staging ground for the advancement of radical Islam. While 
the State Department has listed Iran as a sponsor of terrorism since 
1984, oil revenues allow that regime to weather heightened sanctions.

Our reliance on foreign oil continues at our own peril. We pay huge 
sums for oil, but even this premium cannot guarantee the availability 
of supplies. A recent study identified 24 significant oil supply 
disruptions between 1950 and 2003. These lasted an average of 6 months, 
and reduced the world's supply of oil by up to 12 percent. Recent 
events around the world reveal that our supply of oil is still 
incredibly vulnerable to disruption.

In Nigeria, conflict over oil wealth reduced that nation's daily 
output by 25 percent last year. Dozens of workers have been kidnapped 
there, nearly leading Shell to suspend all of its operations in the 
Niger Delta region. In Iraq, more than 460 attacks on oil pipelines, 
facilities, and personnel have occurred in the past 4 years.

Not all supply disruptions will be caused by natural events or 
manmade strife, because much of the world's oil is controlled by 
irrational, often unpredictable leaders. Venezuelan President Hugo 
Chavez recently threatened to stop sending his country's oil to America 
because of a British court ruling. The simple truth is this: in a world 
without spare production capacity, every major production loss, no 
matter where it occurs, can boost oil prices--and even short-term 
increases heighten the long-term costs to our Nation.

Many foreign leaders are using oil as a diplomatic weapon, and 
establishing diplomatic ties with growing energy consumers. Such 
relationships legitimize the regimes in power and allow them to secure 
regional influence. We have seen the Putin regime use its vast 
resources as leverage throughout Eastern Europe. But perhaps the best 
example of this type of petro-influence can be seen in Venezuela. The 
Chavez regime peddled influence by distributing nearly $5 million in 
financial assistance per day last year to nations throughout Latin 
America. Venezuela also used revenue from its oil sales to subsidize 
bus tickets for Londoners and home heating oil for Americans.

Nearly all of us, and nearly all of our constituents, can agree that 
America's dependence on foreign oil must end. Before I discuss some 
solutions to the problems I have outlined, I will provide historical 
context for them.

Attempting to bolster America's energy security is not new to 
Washington. In 1973, my first year in Congress, President Nixon gave a 
major address on energy. He proposed a very aggressive initiative, 
called 'Project Independence', stating:




 Let us set as our national goal, in the spirit of Apollo 


 with the determination of the Manhattan Project, that by the 


 end of this decade we will have developed the potential to 


 meet our own energy needs without depending on any foreign 


 energy sources.


At the time of that speech, net imports accounted for approximately 
28 percent of U.S. crude oil demand. Thirty-five years later, imports 
account for more than 60 percent. Imports have grown because the gap 
between domestic supply and demand has been allowed to widen--
consumption has steadily increased over the years, while production 
dwindled.

In 2005, the United States consumed 21 million barrels of crude oil 
per day, but that same year, domestic production hit a 50-year low. The 
result established a record for oil imports--13.7 million barrels per 
day--but not a ceiling on them. According to the EIA, oil usage will 
rise 30 percent by 2030, even as alternative sources of energy account 
for a much greater percentage of our energy supply.

These estimates show that, while our goals have been admirable and 
ambitious, we are heading in the wrong direction. As consumption rises, 
and domestic production falls, oil imports continue to increase and our 
hand is weakened diplomatically, militarily, and economically. As we 
debate catch phrases like ''energy independence,'' ''energy security,'' 
and ''energy freedom''--we miss the point. And that is, we must 
immediately adopt policies to reverse the course we have been on since 
before 1973, and the course that our best experts estimate will 
continue beyond 2030.

Part of the problem is created by the talking points originating in 
Washington. Although the goal of ''Project Independence'' was never 
met, the same rhetoric is still used to define the challenges we face. 
Invoking the Apollo missions and the Manhattan Project ignores the hard 
truth that an effective long-term energy policy will not be a race to 
the finish line. As President Nixon asserted, we will need the spirit 
and determination of past endeavors. We will need our brightest minds 
and best science. But this time, we do not seek a one-time goal--to 
land the first man on the Moon, or to develop the first atom bomb. 
Instead, we seek a fundamental shift in how our Nation powers its 
economy. The widening delta between domestic production and consumption 
will continue to swell unless we change course.

Throughout this debate, we must be straight about these challenges. 
We must be honest with the American people and honest with ourselves. 
Given our growing energy needs, and our reliance on foreign oil, we 
should not promise energy independence within a term of office. In the 
absence of scientific breakthroughs, the strengthening of our energy 
security that we seek will take substantial time and effort to achieve. 
But we can begin to move in that direction today.

There are no easy solutions or quick fixes to our energy challenges. 
As we debate these issues, we should not propose to overhaul the 
traditional energy industries without also addressing the likely 
impacts that such actions will have. And we should not seek to 
transition away from traditional sources of energy until new 
technologies are affordable, available, and acceptable to the public.

Those of us in Congress share a common goal--to reduce our dependence 
on foreign oil--but there are deep divisions over how to achieve it. As 
a result, the Congressional Record is filled with legislation that 
undermines our ability to move toward this goal. These measures were 
drafted with good intentions. However, good intentions are not enough, 
especially when they are not matched with the wisdom and experience 
necessary to achieve these goals we seek. This Congress is in danger of 
failing in this regard.

Last year, Congress passed an omnibus appropriations bill in the 
place of several individual bills. As time dwindled, attention was 
diverted away from damaging provisions that were inserted in that bill 
and passed with little notice and no debate. Among these provisions was 
a moratorium on oil shale regulations, which could delay the 
commercialization of one of America's


most promising resources. Our Nation holds 62 percent of the world's 
oil shale deposits. This equals nearly five times the proven 
conventional oil reserves of Saudi Arabia. Just imagine the 
possibilities if we unleash American ingenuity to access these 
resources.

Another provision in that bill imposed new fees for domestic oil and 
gas permits, which will increase the cost of business and ultimately 
heighten the cost of energy for American consumers. As we have seen our 
domestic production level off over the past several years, it is 
irresponsible to adopt policies that accelerate this trend. Yesterday, 
the House Democrats chose the unwise path of raising taxes on our 
domestic energy producers by $18 billion. Additionally, some in the 
majority seek to make it more difficult for our military to purchase 
unconventional fuels from our allies in Canada. On top of that, some in 
the majority still seek to undo lease agreements that American 
companies have to produce energy in the Gulf of Mexico. This makes no 
sense.

These backward policies prevent us from building on the success of 
recent energy bills. Legislative efforts to open a small section of the 
Arctic Coastal Plain have now been thwarted for over 25 years. Much of 
our Outer Continental Shelf also remains closed for energy leasing. 
Combined, these areas contain more than 100 billion barrels of oil and 
450 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.

Using old fears about energy production, and ignoring new concerns 
about energy prices, policymakers are locking up our energy potential. 
It is clear that this approach has failed, and that we need to find a 
new way to reach smart consensus on energy policy.

For too long, the debate on energy has been dominated by extreme 
ideologies. Discourse has deviated into an ''either/or'' approach, 
where participants are accused of being beholden to either ''big oil'' 
or ''environmental extremism.'' In an almost equally divided Senate, 
and at a time when party control is split between the legislative and 
executive branches, there is no better time to bridge this divide.

We must take action on an aggressive agenda of both new and old 
energy ideas. Some of these proposals have been labeled as Republican 
ideas, and others have been labeled as Democratic ideas. We must 
recognize that reasonable policies to reduce our dependence on foreign 
oil are American ideas, not partisan agendas. We must affirm that these 
policies are worth pursuing, because additional steps can and should be 
taken to reduce the amount of energy this nation imports.

A strong energy policy will rely upon three types of initiatives: 
those that increase the responsible production of domestic energy; 
those that accelerate the research, development, and deployment of 
renewable and alternative sources of energy; and those that 
significantly enhance our Nation's ability to conserve energy. There is 
broad agreement that two of these three areas are critical to America's 
energy security. I see them outlined in the measures introduced in 
Congress, and they are built upon in the energy proposals of those 
running for President.

 In modern politics, most people would be satisfied with two out of 
three. But when we miss a critical piece of the puzzle--the one that 
matters most in the near-term, and would have the greatest immediate 
impact--then we can safely say, as I do now, that our efforts will fall 
short of the goal.

 I speak, of course, of the continuing disagreements over domestic 
production. We must, without delay, produce more energy at home. 
American energy, produced by our workers, must be used to power our 
homes, businesses, and vehicles.

 Increasing domestic production will not be a stand-alone solution. 
But with proven reserves of more than 21 billion barrels of oil, and 
undiscovered reserves of more than 100 billion barrels, it is simply 
unacceptable that America fail to meet a greater share of our own needs 
with domestic energy resources.

 The good news is that we have the resources, the technology, and the 
support of most Americans. The bad news is that so far we have been 
unable to muster the political will--we cannot even build consensus to 
inventory these areas and gain an accurate assessment of our Nation's 
energy reserves. To have a fair and informed debate, we must know the 
extent of our resources. And then we must tap them with the ingenuity, 
skill, and technology at our disposal.

 We must listen to the people of Alaska and open the Arctic Coastal 
Plain to responsible leasing for the exploration and production of oil 
and natural gas. ANWR is an emotional subject for many folks, so let's 
stick to the facts. First, to the critics who say that oil from ANWR 
will take 10 years to come on-line--you are probably right. But to use 
this as an argument against development is like refusing to save for 
your retirement because you are not retiring next year. It will take 
time and patience to develop the resources of Alaska's North Slope. 
From experience, we know that starting this process a decade ago would 
have ensured greater domestic oil production when we needed it most.

 In 1995, Congress did pass legislation to open a small portion of 
the Coastal Plain to oil and gas leasing. But President Clinton vetoed 
the legislation, and more than a decade later, an estimated 10.4 
billion barrels of oil continue to sit under our own soil. The week of 
that veto, the average price of crude oil was $19 per barrel. This 
week, the price has risen to about $102 per barrel. I would say that 
conditions have changed enough to warrant a fresh debate on this topic.

 Congress must also open more of the Outer Continental Shelf, as we 
did in the Gulf of Mexico in 2006. Last year, an amendment that would 
have allowed leasing off the coast of Virginia was defeated on a near 
party-line vote. That vote was a step in the wrong direction. Offshore 
America holds tremendous energy potential, and it is essential that the 
American energy industry have greater access to explore and produce in 
this area.

 Continuing to restrict the OCS will sacrifice billions of dollars 
that could be used to develop our Nation's future energy supplies. 
Opening it would augment our supply of traditional fuels--and dollars 
that now go overseas to acquire oil could remain within our own economy 
and could be used to develop alternative sources of energy. The 
conventional fuels of the 20th century can be used to pioneer those of 
the 21st century, but we must first find the courage to put ourselves 
on such a forward-looking and pragmatic path.

 Equally important to increased domestic production will be measures 
to expedite the on-shore permitting process. A good example of why is 
Alaska's natural gas pipeline. Permitting and activities related to 
permitting that project may add more than 5 years to its timeline. This 
is just one example, but it is representative of an increasingly 
burdensome process. Permitting must be streamlined, not only to prevent 
energy producers from investing abroad, but also for the sake of 
growing our energy production.

 As I have indicated, our Nation has a great quantity of oil locked 
up off of our coasts, beneath our permafrost, and within our shale. 
These areas can provide a stable supply of energy as we transition to 
alternative fuels. But oil is not the only resource that can be 
developed at home and depended upon to meet our energy needs. We are 
also fortunate to have vast reserves of coal: some 270 billion 
recoverable tons, which would last for 240 years at the current rate of 
consumption. That coal can be turned into fuels that help meet our 
transportation, manufacturing, and electric power needs.

 Because of the emissions that result when coal is converted to 
energy, we will need cleaner methods to ensure the protection of our 
environment. To me, this is an opportunity. Our Nation has a proud 
heritage of innovation, and there is no reason to believe this strong 
record will not continue in the future. As our most abundant and 
affordable fossil resource, we cannot simply cross coal off the list. 
Any serious effort to strengthen our energy security must include coal.

 One of our best prospects is to advance the development of coal-to-
liquid fuels. As an alternative to oil, coal-to-liquid fuels have many 
merits: it will reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxide, 
particulate matter, and other pollutants when compared to conventional 
fuels. Coal-to-liquid fuels have been commercially demonstrated in 
other countries, can be moved through existing pipelines, and can be


used in existing vehicles. Commercialization of this resource will 
create investment in rural communities, thousands of good-paying jobs, 
and cheaper energy for American consumers. Despite this potential, two 
amendments to advance this type of fuel were defeated on party-line 
votes in the most recent energy debate.

 Future generations of automobiles will be powered by the advanced 
battery. The Government must redouble its efforts to ensure the 
research, development, and deployment of these technologies. Reliable 
and rechargeable batteries will be critical to the success of hybrid 
vehicles, which hold tremendous promise for reducing the amount of oil 
consumed in the transportation sector.

 The policies I speak of are just a few of the options available to 
us. We should also increase the number of flex-fuel vehicles on the 
road, and the number of stations that offer blended fuels. We should 
offer incentives to existing refineries, and encourage the expedited 
construction of new ones, to reduce the amount of gasoline we import. 
We continue to lament that while our refinery capacity has improved at 
existing sites, we have not built a new refinery in 30 years. We must 
rethink our policies to match the modern challenge we face. Again, 
these are just a sampling of the policy options available to the 
Congress as we seek to chart a more responsible path forward.

 As a member of the Senate Energy Committee for nearly 30 years, and 
its chair or ranking member for much of the past decade, I obviously 
have strong views on the energy policies that will best serve our 
Nation. But I also recognize that we must work together to find common 
ground. We did this in the past on energy policy, and we can do it 
again.

 The costs of our dependence on foreign oil are enormous and 
increasing. The consequences of removing money from our economy, and 
sending it to often-volatile oil-producing nations, are becoming clear. 
Few positives will ever be drawn from this arrangement.

 When we import oil, we export our jobs and we export our wealth. We 
strengthen regimes that are intent on undermining our interests, 
opposed to the spread of democracy, and unwilling to extend some of the 
most basic freedoms to their own people. When we import oil, we 
threaten our national security and our economic strength. As we look 
ahead, we must remember that for today and the foreseeable future, we 
need oil. We should put our American energy resources to use.

 This is my final year in the U.S. Senate. It is a privilege and an 
honor to serve the people of New Mexico and this country. But it is not 
just the end of my time in the Senate that approaches; the time to 
reduce our growing dependence on foreign oil is also upon us.

 It is my sincere hope that we will use this year and the future to 
work together on policies that will move us toward our energy security 
goals. This will require us to set aside our differences and make 
difficult decisions. It will require us to come to the table with open 
minds and positive intentions. In an era defined by its bitter 
partisanship, this will not be easy. But given the stakes--our national 
security, our economic strength, and our standing in the world--that is 
exactly what we must do.