---
---

# STOP EXCESSIVE ENERGY SPECULATION ACT OF 2008--MOTION TO PROCEED--
## `a28f6c0dede6a0323e9c27d50478cc6a`
`Mrs. MURRAY — 22 July 2008`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, we have had a very important debate today 
about energy which I spoke about earlier today. I come to the Senate 
floor this afternoon to talk about another issue that is also 
important; that is, to raise awareness about one of the most 
heartbreaking and alarming consequences of the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

In the 5 years since we invaded Iraq, we have seen a disturbing 
increase in the number of young men and women who are returning home, 
struggling with the psychological impact of the war and then, sadly, 
take their own lives. About 1,000 war veterans who are being treated by 
the VA attempt suicide each month. It is a problem that is affecting 
many communities across the country.

Earlier this month, we lost a young man in my home State of 
Washington, just hours after he went to the VA in Spokane to ask for 
care. He was, in fact, the sixth veteran in that community to take his 
own life this year. Currently, the Spokane VA is investigating all of 
those cases. I have spoken to Secretary Peake, and he has assured me 
his team is on the ground taking a hard look to see what went wrong and 
what they can learn from that case. But while I appreciate the work 
Secretary Peake and the Spokane VA are doing, the fact is this is a 
serious problem across the country.

Every suicide is a tragedy. Those young men and women are someone's 
son or daughter, someone's best friend, possibly someone's spouse or 
even a parent. Our hearts go out to all of those families and their 
friends. These deaths are an urgent reminder that we have to keep our 
eye on the ball. We owe it to all of our servicemembers and veterans to 
demand that the VA and the Department of Defense make it a national 
priority to bring those numbers down.

I acknowledge that the VA is taking steps to reach out to our 
veterans and their families to let them know that help is available. 
This week, in fact, the VA is rolling out a public service campaign in 
Washington, DC. It is part of a 3-month-long pilot program, and the VA 
is going to be running a series of ads on TV, on buses and trains, and 
on the subway. Those ads are going to highlight the VA's 24-hour 
suicide prevention hotline. The number for that is 1-800-273-TALK. It 
will help assure our veterans it is OK to ask for help. I truly applaud 
the VA for that effort because it is a good step. We have to absolutely 
get the word out to veterans and their families. If this helps prevent 
one tragedy, then it is more than worth it.

I applaud the VA. I hope the Defense Department will also publicize 
that number among its Active-Duty troops so when they leave the 
service, they will already be aware of it. But this is only a step. An 
ad campaign is only as good as the resources that are there when our 
servicemembers call and ask for help.

If we truly are going to make a difference, we need a much bigger 
effort. We have to do more to reach out. We have to do more to break 
down the barriers to those seeking mental health care. We need to back 
up those efforts with enough resources and money to ensure that when a 
veteran goes into the hospital asking for help, the VA offers the best 
care possible.

While I applaud the idea of publicizing the suicide prevention 
hotline, I believe the military and the VA must reach out long before 
our young men and women pick up that phone and call for help. That is 
going to take creativity and leadership.

The VA and the Defense Department can't keep doing things the way 
they have always done them because the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are 
not like any we have fought before. Our All-Volunteer Force has been on 
the ground in these two countries for longer than we fought in World 
War II. Troops get very little downtime. Many of them are serving their 
third or fourth and sometimes fifth deployments. This is a stress that 
is taking a toll on everyone.

For many of them, it gets worse when they come home to the pressures 
of everyday life or financial strains or family problems. That is 
especially true for members of the National Guard and Reserves because, 
unlike Active-Duty troops who return from battle to go to a military 
base where there is a support network, many of our Guard and Reserve 
members go home right away to family pressures and to civilian jobs 
they need to start right away.

The military and the VA have to update their resources and outreach 
efforts to match the challenges our troops face when they return. That 
safety net has to be in place before they ever leave the military. That 
means we must have creative programs that help our servicemembers 
transition from that battlefield back to the home front. It means 
providing family and financial counseling to any servicemember who 
needs it, and it means developing a way for the military or the VA to 
follow up with our servicemembers, especially those who have already 
asked for help with psychological needs. We have to also encourage our 
servicemembers and veterans to seek care when they need it by breaking 
down the barriers that prevent them from asking for help.

The VA and the Defense Department have to take strong steps to change 
the military culture so that servicemembers no longer fear that seeking 
care will be viewed as some sign of weakness or one that could hurt 
their career. Even more important, servicemembers and veterans must be 
convinced if they ask for help, doctors and staff will take them 
seriously and provide the care they need.

I personally have heard too many tragic stories about veterans who 
have gone to the VA in distress, only to face a doctor who 
underestimated their symptoms and sent them home to an end in tragedy. 
When someone with a history of depression or PTSD or other 
psychological wounds walks into one of our VAs and says they are 
suicidal, it should set off alarm bells for everyone. We can't convince 
veterans or servicemembers to get care if they think they will be met 
with lectures and closed doors. That is simply unacceptable. At the 
very least, we have to ensure that staff at military and VA medical 
centers have the training to recognize and treat someone who is in real 
distress.

Finally, we have to provide the resources to back up all of these 
efforts, starting with making sure that the suicide prevention hotline 
is staffed with enough trained professionals to provide real help to 
someone in need. I hope that will be the case. Unfortunately, this 
administration has failed for 8 long years to make good on its promises 
and provide the resources for our veterans to carry them out. Time and


time again it has taken leaks and scandals to get the administration to 
own up to major problems at the VA--from inadequate budgets to rising 
suicide rates about which I am talking today. Its response to rising 
costs has been to underfund research and cut off services for some of 
our veterans. We have to do better than that. Servicemembers and 
veterans need more than an 800 number to call. They need psychiatrists 
and psychologists who understand the horrors of war and the stresses 
our troops feel.

We also have to make sure we have the facilities and systems set up 
to accommodate the troops who will be entering the VA system in the 
next decade. We have to fast-track research into the signature injuries 
of this war, such as traumatic brain injury or post-traumatic stress 
disorder, so we understand how to diagnose and treat those conditions. 
We need to speed up efforts that will enable the DOD and VA to share 
records so that fewer servicemembers slip through the cracks as they 
transition from Active Duty to veteran status. Now is the time to 
invest in research and infrastructure. We cannot afford to wait.

Many of us are familiar with the story of Joseph Dwyer, a young Army 
medic, made famous in a photo taken during the first week of the U.S. 
invasion of Iraq. In that photo, we have seen Joseph running toward 
safety with an injured Iraqi child in his arms. It is an epic image of 
bravery and compassion.

When he came home, Joseph struggled to fit back into civilian life. 
He suffered from PTSD and, tragically, earlier this year, he died of 
what police are treating as an accidental drug overdose. That photo of 
Joseph Dwyer captured the incredible work our troops are doing every 
single day. But, sadly, Joseph's story is also now an example of what 
far too many veterans face when they come home. The photo of Joseph was 
taken during the first week of this war. Now, more than 5 years later, 
we ought to have the resources in place to treat the psychological 
wounds of war as well as we do the physical ones. But we don't.

I ask my colleagues to put themselves in the shoes of a parent or 
spouse who has lost a child, a husband or a wife, or someone they know 
to suicide. I want them to think of all the questions they might be 
asking. We might not be able to provide all the answers, but we should 
at least be able to say we are doing everything we can to address the 
problem.

We know there are many dedicated, hard-working VA employees who spend 
countless hours providing our vets with the best treatment possible. We 
also have to recognize the system is still unprepared today for the 
influx of veterans coming home. As I have told my colleagues before, a 
recent RAND study shows that one in four veterans is struggling with 
PTSD. It is the duty of the VA and of a grateful nation to be prepared 
to care for their unique wounds. In order to do that, we need strong 
leadership and attention to detail in Washington, DC, in Spokane, WA, 
and everywhere in between.

At the end of day, this is not about bureaucracy. It is not about 
protecting turf. It is about saving lives. I am glad the administration 
plans to increase its outreach. It is a pilot program. It is only a 
small step. We have to make this a national priority to address this 
tragedy.

The administration has to back up its efforts by reaching out to our 
servicemembers, veterans, and their families. We have to break down the 
barriers that prevent our servicemembers and veterans from seeking and 
getting mental health care, and we have to provide adequate resources.

No matter how anyone feels about this war, our troops are heroes. 
They have done everything we have asked of them--and more. It is time 
our commitment measured up to theirs.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.