# FATHER ROBERT DRINAN
## `a298a4f4942452149a95e7128c7873aa`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 29 January 2007`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, Father Robert Drinan, a former Member of 
this House and a champion for the cause of peace and justice, died 
yesterday.

Father Drinan was a hero and a friend. He recognized early the folly 
of the Vietnam War, and he fought to end it. He was a critic of the 
current and senseless war in Iraq. He was outspoken and not faint on 
issues of human rights here at home and around the world. He was a 
friend to the poor, a courageous advocate for civil rights and civil 
liberties, and a well-respected legal scholar. He was also a Jesuit 
priest who was proud of his vocation and dedicated to the teachings of 
the Church.

We developed a strong friendship over the years. I certainly sought 
his advice and counsel on many, many issues; and he never hesitated to 
provide it. He called regularly, sent me articles and speeches, and 
always urged me to stand strong for what is right.

Mr. Speaker, our country, and indeed the world, is better off because 
of Bob Drinan. My condolences go out to his family and friends. He was 
a remarkable man and a true inspiration and he will be missed.



Mr. Speaker, I ask to insert in the Record a copy of an article which 
appeared in today's Boston Globe honoring Father Drinan.











[From boston.com, Jan. 29, 2007]











 Congressman-Priest Drinan Dies















(By Mark Feeney)




 The Rev. Robert F. Drinan, who left Boston College's 


 administration to become the first Roman Catholic priest 


 elected to Congress and who in 1973 filed the initial 


 impeachment resolution against President Richard M. Nixon, 


 died yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, 


 D.C. He was 86.



 The cause of death was pneumonia and congestive heart 


 failure, said a spokeswoman for Georgetown University, where 


 Father Drinan taught legal ethics and other subjects to more 


 than 6,000 students during the past 26 years.



 ''Father Drinan was a forever gentle, resilient, tenacious 


 advocate for social justice and fundamental decency,'' said 


 Senator John F. Kerry, who was Father Drinan's campaign 


 manager in 1970. ''He lived out in public life the whole 


 cloth of Catholic teachings. In the most divisive days of 


 Vietnam when things were coming apart, this incredible man 


 and most unlikely of candidates showed America how a man of 


 faith could be a man of peace .''



 A five-term member of the House of Representatives, Father 


 Drinan was one of its most liberal members. His strong anti-


 administration stands earned him a place on the Nixon 


 ''enemies list.'' His upset victory over U.S. Representative 


 Philip J. Philbin, a 14-term incumbent who was vice chairman 


 of the House Armed Services Committee, in the 1970 Democratic 


 primary in Massachusetts Third Congressional District was a 


 high-water mark in the New Politics, which brought the 


 antiwar movement to the ballot box.



 Father Drinan's election was also a landmark in U.S. 


 church-state relations.



 A Catholic priest, the Rev. Gabriel Richard, had served in 


 Congress in 1822 as a nonvoting delegate from Michigan 


 Territory, but he had been appointed. And many Protestant 


 clerics had served as U.S. representatives. Yet the sight of 


 Father Drinan in the halls of Congress in his Roman collar 


 was startling. Some even questioned the propriety of his 


 wearing a cleric's collar and black suit on the floor of the 


 House. Father Drinan had a standard response. ''It's the only 


 suit I own,'' he'd quip.



 Before entering politics, the Jesuit priest had long served 


 as dean at Boston College Law School.



 Supporters saw his entering Congress as a logical union of 


 his legal and spiritual vocations. ''Our father, who art in 


 Congress'' became a popular, if unofficial, campaign slogan.



 Yet many of Father Drinan's most vehement detractors were 


 Catholics who opposed him politically because they saw his 


 electoral career as detracting from his priestly calling. He 


 further angered some Catholics with his show of independence 


 from the church, supporting federal funding of abortions and 


 opposing constitutional amendments that would have banned 


 abortion and allowed prayer in public schools.



 In 1980, Pope John Paul II ordered Father Drinan to either 


 forgo reelection or leave the priesthood. With ''regret and 


 pain,'' Father Drinan announced he would not seek reelection.



 ''It is just unthinkable,'' he said of the idea of 


 renouncing the priesthood to stay in office. ''I am proud and 


 honored to be a priest and a Jesuit. As a person of faith, I 


 must believe that there is work for me to do which somehow 


 will be more important than the work I am required to 


 leave.''



 Father Drinan's unexpected announcement set off a scramble 


 among prospective successors. The winner was U.S. 


 Representative Barney Frank, then a state representative from 


 Beacon Hill.



 In announcing that he would not run again, Father Drinan 


 described himself as ''a moral architect.'' It was an apt 


 description of his political career. His election in 1970 was 


 as much crusade as campaign, charged with a moral fervor that 


 would characterize his entire political career. Father 


 Drinan's critics called him 'the mad monk.'' In the context 


 of those highly charged times, it could as easily be 


 considered praise.



 ''He envisions political power as a moral power,'' Ralph 


 Nader, the consumer advocate, once said. More advocate than 


 legislator, Father Drinan was an outsider on Capitol Hill. 


 (''You have collegiality much more in the church than you do 


 in Congress,'' he said in a 1974 Globe interview.) A wag 


 likened his membership on the House Internal Security 


 Committee, the successor to the House Committee on Un-


 American Activities, ''which Father Drinan wanted to 


 dissolve, to ''an atheist belonging to the World Council of 


 Churches.''



 As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, Father Drinan 


 gained a national profile in the summer of 1974 when the 


 committee's hearings considering Nixon's impeachment were 


 televised. The hearings would have taken place a year 


 earlier, had Father Drinan had his way. On July 31, 1973, he 


 introduced the first resolution to impeach the president--


 though not for any high crimes and misdemeanors relating to 


 the Watergate scandal, but rather over the administration's 


 secret bombing campaign in Cambodia.



 Father Drinan prided himself on having filed that 


 resolution. But its timing dismayed the House Democratic 


 leadership, which thought it premature and counterproductive.



 ''Morally, Drinan had a good case,'' then-House Speaker 


 Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. noted in his memoirs. ''But 


 politically, he damn near blew it. For if Drinan's resolution 


 had come up for a vote at the time he filed it, it would have 


 been overwhelmingly defeated--by something like 400 to 20. 


 After that, with most of the members already on record as 


 having voted once against impeachment, it would have been 


 extremely difficult to get them to change their minds later 


 on.''



 In 1975, Father Drinan filed an impeachment resolution 


 against U.S. ambassador to Iran Richard Helms for his 


 activities as director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 


 That same year, Father Drinan was chief plaintiff in a suit 


 filed by 21 Democratic congressmen to block U.S. military 


 involvement in Cambodia. It was later dismissed.



 Robert Frederick Drinan was born in Boston, the son of 


 James John Drinan and Ann Mary (Flanagan) Drinan. Father 


 Drinan grew up in Hyde Park. He played clarinet with the 


 Boston Civic Symphony and participated on the debating team 


 at Boston College. He entered the Society of Jesus in 1942, 


 after earning his bachelor's degree at Boston College.



 Father Drinan did his seminary work at Weston College in 


 Cambridge. (Daniel Berrigan, who would later become a noted 


 peace activist, was a classmate.) He received a master's from 


 Boston College in 1947 and two law degrees from Georgetown 


 University Law Center, the first in 1949 and a master's in 


 law in 1951. Ordained in 1953, he received a doctorate in 


 theology at Rome's Gregorian University.



 In 1955, he returned to Boston College as associate dean 


 and professor at its law school. He became dean a year later, 


 a position he held until 1969. Father Drinan served as Boston 


 College's vice president and provost from 1969 to 1970. 


 During his deanship, the law school went from being ''a 


 moribund institution,'' as a federal judge once described it, 


 to ranking among the nation's more highly regarded law 


 schools.



 Father Drinan found himself increasingly involved in public 


 issues. He served as chairman of the advisory committee for 


 Massachusetts of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. As part 


 of an ecumenical group, he went to South Vietnam in 1969 to 


 assess the state of religious and political freedom there.



 Asked in a 1970 Globe interview why he was running for 


 Congress, Father Drinan answered with a series of questions. 


 ''Why? Why not? Jesuit priests always have been avant-garde. 


 Right?''



 His candidacy drew nationwide attention. The conservative 


 columnist William F. Buckley Jr. called Father Drinan ''the 


 greatest threat to orderly thought since Eleanor Roosevelt 


 left this vale of tears.'' He won a three-way race in 


 November by 3,000 votes.



 Also elected to Congress in 1970 were such vehemently anti 


 war Democrats as Ron Dellums of California and Bella Abzug of 


 New York. Yet Father Drinan drew particular attention. In 


 January 1974, George H.W. Bush, who was then Republican Party 


 chairman, said there wasn't another congressman whose defeat 


 he more strongly hoped for than Father Drinan's. He promised 


 a major GOP drive to unseat him. None materialized.



 Last night, several of Father Drinan's colleagues said his 


 character and conscience made him a strong voice on Capitol 


 Hill. In a statement, Senator Edward Kennedy cited Father 


 Drinan's principled commitment to, among other causes, ending 


 the war in Vietnam. ''He was a profile in courage in every 


 sense of the word, and the nation has lost one of the finest 


 persons ever to serve in Congress,'' Kennedy said.



 ''When I arrived in Congress, Father Drinan was already 


 serving as the conscience of the House of Representatives 


 with every vote he cast,'' U.S. Representative Edward Markey 


 of Malden said. '' He was a man of faith who never stopped 


 searching for truth, and he was a committed educator who 


 stayed true to his faith.''



 After leaving Congress, Father Drinan returned to academe, 


 teaching international human rights, legal ethics, and 


 constitutional law at Georgetown University Law Center. He 


 published ''Can God and Caesar Coexist? Balancing Religious 


 Freedom and International Law'' (2005).



 In addition to keeping a heavy schedule of speeches and 


 writing, Father Drinan served on the board of Common Cause, 


 the citizens lobbying group, and spent two terms as president 


 of the liberal organization Americans for Democratic Action. 


 While in Congress, he had been a founder of the National 


 Interreligious Task Force for Soviet Jewry. (Father Drinan 


 was a strong supporter of Soviet Jews seeking emigration.) He 


 also served on the board of Bread for the World, an 


 organization dedicated to feeding the hungry. In a 1992 Globe 


 interview, Father Drinan called ending world hunger his 


 ''number one passion.''



 In that interview, Father Drinan was asked what he felt 


 about the Vatican's forcing him to choose between the clergy 


 and Congress. ''History will have to judge whether or not 


 that was a wise decision,'' he said.



 He leaves a sister-in-law, Helen, of Newton Highlands, and 


 three nieces.



 Funeral arrangements had not been made last night.



