---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `a2a034d4c4d9ecd88f272674e094e8af`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you very much, Mr. Ross. As always, it is 
indeed a pleasure to be with you on this occasion.

I want to talk about two areas, the debt, and, of course the big 
elephant in the room which all of America is concerned about, the 
situation in Iraq and Iraq accountability.

I happen to serve on the Financial Services Committee and on the 
Foreign Affairs Committee, so in terms of foreign policy and in terms 
of our finances, those are the two major critical cross-sections we are 
in at this point.

Concerning the debt, it is very important that we point out, Mr. 
Ross, that the fastest growing area in our budget is the interest that 
we are paying on this debt, which is more than what we are spending 
combined for education, the environment and for veterans affairs.

As we segue that into our international situation, when you look at 
the debt that we have gotten into as a result of the carelessness and 
the ineffective, inefficient foreign policy as it relates to our debt; 
for example, under this President and under this previous Republican-
controlled Congress, this country has borrowed more money from foreign 
governments than all of the preceding past Presidents have done since 
1789, since the foundation of this country. It has placed us in a very 
perilous position. And we are fighting this war in Iraq and Afghanistan 
on borrowed money that our children will have to pay back and the 
children of our soldiers will have to pay back.

Mr. Ross, what is on the minds of the American people is 
accountability in Iraq. It is very important that we mention two major 
bills that we are moving in that direction. First is our own troop 
readiness and Iraqi accountability bill that passed this House, the 
basic framework of which after the President vetoed the first go around 
is now in the bill we passed last week, and it is in the conference 
report that we hope we will be sending back. It is important that the 
American people understand what the Democrats have put forward in this 
measure.

Our other bill is the Accountability Act, in terms of financial 
accountability, that we in the Blue Dog Coalition of Democrats have put 
forward to bring some fiscal responsibility and soundness and 
transparency to the moneys that we are spending in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. We know about the Halliburtons, we know about all the war 
profiteering. We hear about that in the news accounts.

It is our bill that we are pushing forward that will give some 
transparency and accountability. Two important facts that I think the 
American people need to know about that bill is that, one, it will 
require that the Inspector General from both the Defense Department 
over at the Pentagon, will have to come before this Congress quarterly 
to explain and to account for the moneys that are spent on that basis, 
as well as the Inspector General from the rebuilding program in Iraq, 
where so much loss of funds, unaccountability, outright stealing and 
theft is going on of the taxpayers' money. So we are bringing 
accountability to that.

But we also have got to do more, and that is what is contained in the 
conference report that we are sending to the President. Not only do we 
have benchmarks, but there must be accountability to the Iraqi people. 
They have this opportunity and they must step up to the plate to assume 
their end of the bargain. There is a government in place, and the 
benchmarks we have put in, there is no better way to do that.

Now, Mr. Ross, I think much has been said about Congress and the role 
that we have to play in foreign policy. Unfortunately, this President 
has said time and time again that he is in control of foreign policy; 
that he is the Commander in Chief, and that the Congress is just here 
to do pretty much as he wants us to do. And for 5 years, for the first 
5 years, that happened, where this Congress just rolled over and gave 
the President everything that he wants.

When we had that change in November and the people went to the polls 
to put Democrats in charge, they wanted to see a change in direction, 
and the Democrats are giving the change in direction in the bills that 
we have sent forward to the President.

You talk about fiscal accountability. Yes, indeed, we have that in 
there. We have put more money in this budget for our troops, $4 billion 
more, than the President has asked for. But it is so important also 
that we have accountability when the money gets over, to make sure that 
the Iraqi people understand, we don't have an endless supply of money 
to go down over into Iraq, and most certainly we do not have an endless 
supply of the precious blood and the lives of our soldiers to 
continually be going down the pike in the Iraqi situation. The American 
people are saying this situation has to end. We must get our men and 
women in uniform out of the middle of the crosshairs of what is a civil 
war.

Madam Speaker, we realize that we are in this because of mistakes. 
More importantly, Mr. Ross, when you talk about accountability, it is 
important that we realize now that not only have mistakes been made, 
but we got into Iraq based on not just bad intelligence, but warped 
intelligence, and we got in there on deceit and lies. All of that is 
there now.

It is very important for us if we want to effectively be able to 
determine how to get out of Iraq, we must be honest about how we got 
into Iraq. So it is very important that we do that.

The American patience is running out on those two measures of Iraqi 
accountability, in terms of the money we are spending, in terms of the 
benchmarks we have put into this effort, and for the transparency that 
we put in our bill. We, as Democrats, are being very responsive.

We do have security in that region. We are not going to abandon our 
troops, but we are going to get them out of the crosshairs of this 
civil war and get into a position of containment. That is the direction 
that we have to go in as we formulate a new, much more effective 
foreign policy in the Middle East.