---
---

# UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST--H.R. 1
## `a2af41633f7a25de9eb99cdb6df68e76`
`Mr. REID — 26 June 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, despite the fact that we are fast 
approaching the 6-year anniversary since the terrible terrorist attacks 
of September 11, it is painfully clear we have much work left


to do to protect this Nation from these awful attacks. Osama bin Laden 
and his No. 2 still remain at large, and al-Qaida has grown in strength 
and is determined to attack globally. The administration's failed Iraq 
policy has catalyzed a whole new generation of extremists who can be 
expected to carry out attacks against the U.S. and our friends around 
the world. Objective analyses, including the final report of the 9/11 
Commission, conclude that this Nation has failed to take the steps 
necessary to protect America from terrorist attacks.

We need only go back to look at the report card the Bush 
administration received in implementing the 9/11 Commission Report: Ds 
and Fs. The threats the 9/11 Commission talked about and are 
encompassed in this bill are real and growing. When Democrats took 
control of the Congress at the start of this year, we said we would 
finally and fully implement the unanimous recommendations of the 
bipartisan 9/11 Commission. It is something we fought for when we were 
in the minority, and it was one of the first bills we passed at the 
start of this session of Congress.

The House passed its version early this year, January 9, by a vote of 
299 to 128--broad bipartisan support. We passed our bill on March 13. 
It, too, had bipartisan support, passing 60 to 38.

As my colleagues know, Democrats and Republicans who serve on the 
House and Senate committees with jurisdiction over this bill have 
worked tirelessly to resolve the differences in these two bills. I have 
had numerous conversations with Chairman Lieberman. This preconference 
process has carried on for months, on a bipartisan basis, with full 
transparency and good-faith efforts to produce a final bill. Progress 
has been made.

The American people, though, don't expect progress. They expect 
results, and that is what we need. We need to finish the work on this 
bill yesterday--as soon as possible. That is why I believe we need to 
take the next procedural step to finish these negotiations, to appoint 
conferees. That is what we normally would do.

When this bill is finally signed into law, it will make America more 
secure. It will improve the morale, training, and efficiency of the TSA 
screening workforce, allowing them to work more effectively to protect 
air travelers. It will improve the screening of all maritime cargo--all 
maritime cargo--so Americans can be assured we are doing all we can to 
prevent the smuggling of weapons--even a nuclear weapon--through 
America's ports. It will improve the congressional oversight of 
intelligence to be sure we are building the best capabilities possible 
to stop terrorist attacks. It will improve communication sharing and 
communications interoperability among first responders so they can work 
swiftly to protect us from terrorist attacks. It will ensure that 
transportation and mass transit infrastructures are hardened against 
terrorist attacks.

We need to work together to protect the American people from 
terrorism, and we need to do so immediately. We asked numerous times in 
the last Congress to be able to finish the 9/11 bill, and we were 
denied that ability. I would hope that this unanimous consent request 
allowing us to go to conference would be granted.

I am told the minority is going to object to this request that we go 
to conference. That is too bad. Although Senate Republicans have thrown 
procedural hurdles in front of virtually everything we have tried to do 
in the Senate this year, I was hoping they would reconsider their 
obstruction when it comes to getting through legislation that makes 
America more secure. There have been issues raised, but couldn't we 
handle these in conference?

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs Committee be discharged from further consideration 
of H.R. 1, and that the Senate then proceed to its immediate 
consideration; that all after the enacting clause be stricken and the 
text of S. 4, as passed by the Senate on March 13, 2007, be inserted in 
lieu thereof; that the bill be read a third time, passed, and the 
motion to reconsider be laid upon the table; that the Senate insist on 
its amendment, request a conference with the House on the disagreeing 
votes of the two Houses, and the Chair be authorized to appoint 
conferees on the part of the Senate, with the above occurring without 
intervening action or debate.