---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a2b5d38aef500a08a1fc7dbc3206b0ee`
`Mr. LANTOS — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend for yielding.

I must begin by reacting to the two distinguished Republican speakers 
who preceded me. The distinguished Republican leader recited movingly 
and accurately terrorist outrages across the globe. Those terrorist 
outrages make the passage of our resolution all the more urgent and all 
the more imperative. We are not fighting terrorism in Iraq. We are 
attempting to referee a religiously based civil war which saps our 
strength and destroys our fabric as a society.

As to the distinguished Republican whip, may I say this resolution 
does not make tactical decisions. It reverses a mistaken course. The 
administration is recommending an acceleration of the wrong course. Our 
resolution reverses that course.

Mr. Speaker, it is too late to go back and make right all that has 
gone wrong in Iraq, and clearly carrying on with more of the same will 
do no good. But the administration has yet to learn that you cannot 
unscramble an omelet. Instead, it is trying to add to the mix another 
21,500 men and women who deserve better than that.

In pursuing its policies in Iraq, the administration cannot 
unscramble and undo its many mistakes: buying into rogue and flawed 
intelligence; disbanding the Iraqi Army; conducting mindless and 
extreme de-Baathification; permitting the early looting and destruction 
and violence; allowing the growth of a government based on hate-filled 
sectarianism; allowing waste, fraud and abuse in the use of U.S. 
taxpayer funds; and on and on ad nauseam and ad infinitum.

While we all hope that the goal of a quiet and stable Iraq will be 
achieved under General Petraeus, I am deeply skeptical. It will be 
incredibly difficult, if not impossible. The place is just too much of 
a mess.

Our continued heavy presence in Iraq has not forced Iraqi leaders to 
take the requisite actions on power-sharing, resource-sharing, and 
national reconciliation. In fact, it has done the exact opposite. They 
have made minimal and cosmetic efforts in the knowledge that we will 
fill the gaps.

In the meantime, there are so many other fronts, globally and here at 
home, on which we might have made much more progress if we had not been 
fixated these last 4 years on Iraq. Domestic and foreign problems have 
festered while we invested blood and treasure in Iraq. As our Iraq 
problems have mounted, our commitment and ability to resolve other 
pressing issues have vanished.

Last November, the American people sent a loud and unmistakable 
message. With the announcement of an escalation of the war in Iraq, it 
is obvious that the administration did not get it. So we are trying one 
more time.

The resolution before the House is the second chance for this 
administration to hear a strong and clear message on Iraq, one it 
ignores at its peril and at ours as a country.

The majority of Congress wants de-escalation. The majority of the 
American people want de-escalation. Many Republicans throughout the 
Nation, and even our Republican colleagues in this Congress, want de-
escalation. Poll numbers show that the Iraqi people want the United 
States to gradually withdraw, and Prime Minister al-


Maliki has indicated in virtually every way that he can that he, too, 
opposes the surge.

But the administration wants escalation. So it is going its own way, 
nearly alone.

There is a clear-cut policy difference here, Mr. Speaker. It is 
reflected simply and unambiguously in our resolution. Those of our 
colleagues who oppose escalation should vote for the resolution. Those 
of our colleagues who stand with the administration in supporting 
escalation should oppose it.

Along with 52 hearings on Iraq in the House and the Senate over the 
past 5 weeks, this resolution represents the first phase in a long 
overdue process of congressional oversight of the war in Iraq. It is 
not the last phase. Congress will be dealing with the Iraq issue for 
months to come, in fact, for as long as it takes to end this nightmare. 
But this simple resolution will establish the first marker. Those who 
want to draw down the U.S. presence will be on one side of that marker. 
Those who want to take further steps into the quagmire will be on the 
other.

Mr. Speaker, we are throwing our soldiers into the midst of a civil 
war, particularly those whom we are sending to Baghdad. It is utterly 
unrealistic and grossly unfair to expect soldiers straight out of Iowa, 
Alabama, or California to be able to differentiate between Iraqi Sunnis 
and Iraqi Shias, much less to be able to tell at a glance which of 
these groups are with us and which are against us. But that is exactly 
what we are asking them to do, and we are asking them to do it in an 
urban terrorist setting and to do it without any linguistic or cultural 
background.

The first sentence of the recent National Intelligence Estimate tells 
us everything we need to know on this issue: ''Iraqi society's growing 
polarization, the persistent weakness of the Iraqi security forces and 
the Iraqi state in general, and all sides' ready recourse to violence 
are collectively driving an increase in communal and insurgent violence 
and political extremism.''

Every day we read another article illustrating the impossibility of 
the situation into which we have inserted our brave men and women. One 
day, we read how the Iraqi Army is infested with militia members. 
Another day, we read that countless members of al-Sadr's violently 
anti-American Mahdi Army have actually been trained by U.S. soldiers 
unaware of the trainees' true affiliation. On yet another day, we read 
that U.S. soldiers cannot even tell their Iraqi counterparts the object 
of their joint military missions for fear that the mission will be 
compromised.

This weekend, we read an interview with a U.S. soldier who 
acknowledged that he had no idea whatsoever whether an arrest he 
witnessed by Iraqi security forces was justified or merely another 
instance of sectarian revenge.

Mr. Speaker, Iraq is a hall of mirrors, and the administration has 
utterly lost its way. More troops will not help. The United States 
wants Iraq to be a state based on the rule of law, but too many Iraqis 
prefer score-settling, chaos, and civil war. We cannot create a stable 
Iraq when the Iraqis themselves do not seem to want it.

Let us not leave our finest young men and women literally stranded in 
an Iraqi maze. Let us make this resolution the first step on their 
journey home. We must begin a reduction in force at the fastest 
responsible rate possible, consistent with the safety of our troops.

And then it will be time to rebuild our battered military and, just 
as importantly, rebuild the battered reputation of the United States.

For the sake of our troops and our national interests, I strongly 
support this resolution and urge all of my colleagues to do likewise.

