---
---

# URGING A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL
## `a2c158eca5f239fcdf8b31dde2944af3`
`Mr. PETERS — 20 March 2010`

---


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this 
time.

I rise today in support of House Resolution 1119 calling for a moment 
of silence in support of our troops and designation of March 26, 2010, 
as the National Support Our Troops Day.

As a Nation, we celebrate and honor our veterans and patriots, yet we 
don't have an official day celebrating our servicemen and -women who 
are currently protecting our country at home and overseas.

As the son of a World War II veteran and as a former officer in the 
U.S. Navy Reserve, I have the utmost respect for the sacrifices made by 
our active duty soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines.

Recently, I had the honor of visiting our troops in Afghanistan where 
I was able to observe first hand the dedication with which they are 
serving our Nation. I was truly humbled by the sacrifices they are 
making each and every day.

This resolution honors those troops, and I am proud to have 
introduced it, continuing a bipartisan tradition in the 9th 
Congressional District in Michigan. One of my constituents, Alexandra 
McGregor, contacted my predecessor, Congressman Joe Knollenberg, with 
her idea of a day to honor our heroes currently fighting on the front 
lines. Alexandra was a student at Waterford Kettering High School in 
Waterford, Michigan. She, along with her fellow students, as well as 
the faculty of Waterford Kettering High School, have observed a moment 
of silence for the last several years on March 26 in support of our 
troops.



Alexandra brought this idea to her Congressman and asked him to pass 
a resolution calling for March 26 to be recognized as a day for all 
Americans to observe a moment of silence in recognition of our troops. 
And during the 110th Congress, the body passed such a resolution.

Today, I am honored to keep this tradition alive by bringing this 
resolution before the House for consideration. I would like to thank 
the leaders of the Interact Club at Kettering High School, Melina Lopez 
and Connor Newton, for coordinating the event and for bringing this 
tradition to my attention. I would also like to thank Chairman Skelton 
for his support of the resolution, as well as Zach Steacy and Joe 
Hicken of the House Armed Services Committee staff for their work in 
bringing House Resolution 1119 to the floor today.

Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues for supporting this 
resolution.