# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2206, U.S.  TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `a2c6a032370e65eae7bd419f757cceee`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 24 May 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 438 provides for 
consideration of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2206, making emergency 
supplemental appropriations and additional supplemental appropriations 
for agricultural and other emergency assistance for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes.

Mr. Speaker, when my fellow Members of Congress and I speak and 
debate and cast our votes on this floor, we seek to reconcile our 
ideals with what is possible to achieve. We seek to do what is right in 
principle and necessary at any particular point in time, and pray that 
the two are one and the same.



That struggle has formed the foundation of the fight Democrats have 
waged since January, and it is the basis of what we are doing today.

This war was not challenged by the last Congress. It was supported by 
the last Congress. It was defended by the last Congress. Year after 
year, the Republican-led House kept this war alive.



But the public rightly lost faith in the war and those who would 
support it unquestionably. We all know what the result was.

The first opportunity the new majority had to change course in Iraq 
came with the first version of this bill. That legislation conditioned 
any future support for the conflict upon proof that our efforts were 
bearing some fruit. What is more, it would have ended the war by August 
2008 at the very latest. Democrats, and some Republicans, united, and 
that bill was passed by the House.

Democrats in the Senate agreed, and the conference report that was 
sent to the President was even stronger. The same benchmarks were in 
place, but the war was to end 6 months sooner, by March of next year.

Our position was clear and unequivocal. For the first time since 
2003, a majority of the United States Congress supported a new 
direction in Iraq, and it was a direction which would lead to an end to 
the war. The President vetoed that bill.

Our Constitution requires two-thirds of the Congress to overcome a 
veto. Two-thirds of the public stood squarely with the Democrats in 
this Chamber, and a handful of Republicans, who voted to overcome it. 
But what we needed was significant support from the other side of the 
aisle, and we did not get it.

Since then the President's made it clear that he will veto any 
legislation which even mentions the word ''timeline,'' and so he left 
my fellow Democrats and me with a choice. Some would have us ignore his 
words and simply send him a new copy of our original bill. I certainly 
relate to those feelings.

But as appealing as this may seem, I do not believe that it would be 
right. The President and his allies in Congress have put our soldiers 
in harm's way, and Mr. Bush is willing to keep them there no matter how 
much they suffer.

If this Congress delayed funding by continuing to back a bill we 
cannot pass at this time, we would not force the President to end the 
war. All indications are that he would leave our soldiers in Iraq, and 
without adequate funding, they would have to do even more with even 
less.

The Democratic Party is the party that supports our soldiers. We're 
the party that fights for them to have proper equipment, training and 
rest. We're the party that demands that they be given a sensible 
strategy for victory before going into battle. We're the party that 
demands that they receive proper medical care once they return.

We understand the mistaken judgment and obstinacy of the White House, 
and so we will not prevent any funding from coming forth from this 
Congress, an outcome which would permit the President to further add to 
the struggles that our troops endure every day.

Ultimately, of course, supporting the troops means ending the war 
entirely, and the legislation we bring to the floor today goes as far 
as is possible at this moment to achieving that goal.

Mr. Speaker, I ask everyone listening to look at the victories that 
have been won here. The President previously said he would block any 
bill which contained benchmarks for the war, but now the only 
legislation the House will deliver to him contains no fewer than 18 
benchmarks linking economic aid to improvements in the Iraqi situation.

Furthermore, the President and members of the Republican minority 
derided what they called ''unrelated spending'' during our first debate 
on this bill. They did so even though Democrats were seeking only to 
fill the gaps left by last year's failure to give us a budget.

But today we will pass a minimum wage increase. We will increase 
funding for military health care and for veterans' health care, and 
critically needed funding for agriculture disaster aid, children's 
health care, and recovery from Hurricane Katrina.

What is critical for all of our citizens to understand is that what 
is missing from this bill, a timeline to end the war, has been neither 
forgotten nor conceded by the Democrats in the Congress.

To the contrary, our path forward is clear. We will fight every day 
until the world's greatest deliberative body lives up to its billing 
and actually represents the will of the people its serves.

As I said before, at least two-thirds of the American people oppose 
the President's approach to Iraq and want this war brought to a close. 
It's time that two-thirds of this Congress wants the same. And we all 
know where the remaining votes have to come from.

Some days in Iraq are worse than others, but all days there are 
bloody. Four American soldiers died on Monday. Six more died on 
Tuesday. Three lost their lives yesterday. Three hundred twenty-one 
civilians have been anonymously murdered in Baghdad just this month, an 
average of 13 a day.

We must not be afraid to speak what is a simple truth. Every day that 
the Republican minority in this Congress stands by and empowers the 
President to perpetuate this war, they are saying the day's deaths in 
Iraq are acceptable. They're saying that those lives lost are part of a 
price they're willing to let others pay, other mothers, other fathers, 
other sisters, other brothers and other children, not theirs.

But they are alone. Official Pentagon assessments now speak of Iraq's 
''civil war,'' meaning the Pentagon itself has broken now from the 
White House. The generals on the ground are admitting that our whole 
approach to Iraq must change. That dialogue, even with insurgent groups 
the President swore he would never talk to, must replace the open-ended 
warfare, which means the surge has failed.

And, of course, the overwhelming majority of the American people are 
not willing to accept the sacrifices asked of our soldiers and Iraqi 
civilians not because of a lack of will, but because of an abundance of 
reason. They correctly see the war as it is being fought today has 
never and will never yield the intended results, that our soldiers have 
been given a mission that has failed them and the people of Iraq time 
and time again.

The Democrats in both Chambers of this Congress stand with them. A 
handful of principled Republicans stand with us as well, but not yet 
enough.

The American people will continue to demand that their voices be 
heard. They will continue to demand their Representatives no longer 
willfully ignore their wishes, and my fellow Democrats and I will 
continue to demand the same.

Together we will struggle until our collective ideals becomes one 
with what is possible to achieve and until this representative Congress 
actually represents its constituents and forces the President to do the 
same.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.