---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `a2c7e27564bd54e94a1ec19571d62629`
`Mr. PETERS — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. PETERS. Madam Chair, I rise today in support of the budget 
resolution. Like the President, I came to Washington this year at a 
time when we are both inheriting record budget deficits, and battling 
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. I am a strong 
believer in fiscal discipline, and I understand that the current budget 
deficits are unsustainable. However, I also know that it is next to 
impossible to bring our nation out of a deep recession and balance our 
budget at the same time. This budget is a blueprint for generating 
economic expansion. As our economy begins to grow again, deficits will 
be reduced over time.

This budget makes a great deal of progress on deficit spending, 
cutting the record budget deficit inherited from the last 
administration in half over the next five years. The budget also 
reaffirms the commitment of this Congress to the PAYGO rules, which 
require that new spending and tax cuts be offset by cuts in spending or 
new revenue so new measures do not increase our deficit and our 
national debt. The budget also ends the use of accounting tricks to 
hide costs of certain spending. For example, for the first time the 
budget includes both a full-year estimate for the cost of the wars in 
Iraq and Afghanistan for the budget year as well as estimates for 
future costs.

The quickest way to restore balanced budgets is to increase growth, 
and at a time when our economy is simply not functioning this plan has 
the investments and incentives to make that growth happen. This budget 
includes substantial middle class tax cuts, and makes critical 
investments in education, health care reform, and energy independence 
that are necessary to revive the economy and ensure that our nation 
leads the globe in next generation technologies.

In Michigan and Oakland County, this means investments in programs 
like MEP, which helps small manufacturers retool and retrain as they 
implement the next generation of manufacturing practices and green 
technologies. It also means investments in new advanced vehicle 
technologies, which will help ensure that the next generation of green 
vehicles are designed and built in Michigan, not overseas.

Madam Chair, I was elected to office along with President Obama 
because voters were demanding change. This budget delivers on the 
promises we made to voters last fall, by restoring fiscal discipline, 
delivering middle class tax cuts, making critical investments in our 
future, and laying the groundwork for future reforms. I urge my 
colleagues to join me in supporting this blueprint for job creation and 
robust economic growth in America.