---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a2cc1c0da4545244a69d9beb1ceb6778`
`Mr. McKEON — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. McKEON. I thank the gentlelady for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H. Con. Res. 63 and in 
support of a just cause that is facing a critical turning point. The 
outcome hangs in the balance, and, Mr. Speaker, we should not kid 
ourselves into believing that victory is foreordained.

Churchill once said that there would not be war if both sides did not 
believe that they could win it. The enemy we face in Iraq and in the 
broader war against the radical Islamists is driven by an apocalyptic 
vision of God, and because such apocalyptic visions are rooted in faith 
and not facts, they are very hard to dispel. We, therefore, face an 
opponent who is neither open to reason nor to compromise, nor will he 
necessarily be defeated by calculations of military strategy and 
prudence.

We face the paradox of a perilous time. At the opening of the 21st 
century, we are opposed by an adversary who preaches the savagery and 
barbarism of the 12th century. We face in Iraq an enemy that will allow 
us absolutely no quarter, and, Mr. Speaker, I am bound to say that I 
think we in this chamber, and, indeed, even in the country at large, 
have been slow to grasp that fact.

However, the difficulty of the fight should not dissuade us from 
waging it if the cause is just, and the cause is just.

Mr. Speaker, I have had the sad duty to attend the funerals of 
several of the servicemen killed in Iraq who come from my district. 
There are those who say that we should not withdraw from Iraq because 
to do so would mean that they died in vain. That is not correct. 
Nothing that we have done or will do will ever subtract one ounce from 
the valor and nobility of those who have died in the service of their 
country.

As Lincoln said in the Gettysburg Address, ''We cannot dedicate, we 
cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living 
and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor 
power to add or detract.''

However, we should pause to note that our service men and women are 
fighting and sometimes dying because they know the terrible price that 
will be paid if our adversaries prevail. They have seen, as I have seen 
when I traveled to Iraq, what a world our enemies would have us live 
in. It is a world filled by a grotesque and distorted vision of God. It 
is a world of slavery and submission, where the Almighty is not a 
benevolent and loving creator of his children, but rather is a pagan 
idol that demands blood sacrifice and glories in the murder of the 
innocent.

You need look no further than the carnage in Baghdad, or Kabul, or 
Mogadishu, or never let us forget the Twin Towers, to see the truth in 
that axiom. That is what our enemy, for all his talk of God, seeks to 
do, and we are all that stands between our adversary and the 
realization of this nihilistic vision.

Mr. Speaker, there are those in this House who are far better versed 
than I in the strategy and military calculations that are the essence 
of this conflict. There are those who say that we mistakenly entered 
the war in Iraq on the basis of flawed intelligence. This, I think, 
underestimates the nature of our adversary.

Given the expansiveness of our enemy's nightmare vision, I think it 
is safe to say there would have been a war in Iraq no matter what we 
did. That, of course, will be for historians to decide. But this much I 
do know: We stand for hope. We fight for peace in a world that is free. 
We sacrifice now so that the little children that I met when I was in 
Iraq might live in a better world tomorrow, and because they will have 
a better world, we Americans will live in a safer one. To quote 
DeGaulle, ''Behind this terrible cloud of our blood and tears here is 
the sun of our grandeur shining out once again.''

Mr. Speaker, I do have one concern. I think that we in this Congress 
have allowed too wide a gap to develop between the society we help to 
govern and the war we have been compelled to wage. We have to correct 
this, because we will not win this war in Iraq or beyond unless we as a 
Nation come to grips with what we face and begin to act accordingly.

We must never forget, to quote Lincoln again, ''Public sentiment is 
everything. With public sentiment, nothing can fail; without it, 
nothing can succeed.'' Right now I look around me and I see a Congress 
and a country distracted, and nothing could be deadlier to our security 
and our hopes for a better future.

To some extent, this is understandable. America is and has every 
right to be tired of conflict. In 1917, for the first time we went 
''over there'' to make the world safe for democracy. In 1941, in 
Churchill's evocative phrase, the new world stepped forth, yet again, 
to the rescue and liberation of the old.



Then after 1945, we stayed on to wage the long twilight struggle that 
came to be called the Cold War.

Then, in 1989, a miracle. We stopped holding our breaths. The Berlin 
Wall came down and the Soviet Union disappeared. The hair trigger 
nightmare of the nuclear world seemed to recede. We came off of the 
figurative tip-toes on which we had been standing for nearly 50 years. 
We had grown so accustomed to it that when the Cold War ended, we 
scarcely realized just how nerve wracking, and what a strain, it had 
all been.

Now here we are again. More war, more sacrifice, more death. It is 
not a pleasant picture but it offers this. It offers hope. It offers an 
alternative to yet another in a long line of obscene and perverted 
visions that seem to be forever conjured in the minds of men.

Mr. Speaker, I have dared to say today something that very few of us 
seem to be willing to say. We could lose this war.

There is nothing in the stars that says we must prevail. In history, 
freedom is the exception, not the rule. So I say to my colleagues, we 
must press on in Iraq. We must fight wisely, but we must not falter.

Churchill once said in the midst of another terrible war, ''Give us 
the tools and we will finish the job.'' Mr. Speaker, it is the duty of 
this House and of this Congress and of this Nation to give our men and 
women the tools they need to see this conflict through to the end. We 
must send them the reinforcements they need to win this war--and that 
is why, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to defeat this misguided 
resolution.

Most of all we must stand together. That way, when our children and 
grandchildren look back at this moment in history, they will say that 
at the threatened nightfall the blood of their fathers ran strong.