# OPERATION IRAQI HEALING
## `a2e3c786e2580670012f138078b9d3ce`
`Mr. WILSON of South Carolina â€” 30 April 2008`

---


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I wish to recognize the 
non-governmental organization Severus Worldwide and the work they are 
doing on behalf of the health and well-being of the Iraqi people 
through their project, ''Operation Iraqi Healing.''

Prior to the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime, Iraqi citizens suffered 
from a humanitarian crisis perpetrated by a totalitarian dictatorship 
focused on preserving power rather than providing for the citizenry. 
Following the liberation of Iraq, remnants of that broken system and 
the emergence of destabilizing violence created a scenario where the 
Iraqi people are in dire need of medical supplies and medical 
facilities to support a healthy nation.

While the American military and our coalition partners have worked 
hard to help build an infrastructure in the face of ongoing violence, 
our efforts have been impeded by an enemy that targets Iraqi 
infrastructure and an Iraqi medical community that has not been fully 
engaged. Thankfully, private organizations are stepping up and 
providing invaluable assistance.

Severus Worldwide's ''Operation Iraqi Healing'' brings together Iraqi 
physicians and medical personnel along with civil affairs officers from 
both the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps to provide the necessary 
funding and infrastructure to build, staff, and equip hospitals and 
clinics to serve the people of Iraq. This type of comprehensive 
strategy is needed, and I am grateful for Severus Worldwide's 
tremendous efforts on behalf of the Iraqi people.

The time to act is now. The success that can be achieved by 
strengthening the healthcare system of Iraq is two-fold. The people of 
Iraq will have the tools and resources to treat the sick and wounded. 
But, just as important, the stability that a strong and growing 
infrastructure can bring to this nation will be invaluable in helping 
the young democracy of Iraq flourish. The men and women of Severus 
Worldwide and the numerous other private and public organizations that 
have continued to contribute to a stable Iraq should be commended for 
their compassion.
