---
---

# ALASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD DEPLOYMENT
## `a2f9b47d87d2f736dcc84502ffb5d308`
`Mr. STEVENS — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, today, I ask the Senate to salute the men 
and women of the 3rd Battalion, 297th Infantry Regiment of the Alaska 
Army National Guard.

This unit just returned from the Middle East for demobilization. 
Within days, the Alaska Army Guard members will start their return 
journey back to Alaska.

Today, they will be honored at a ''welcome home'' ceremony at Camp 
Shelby in Mississippi. I had hoped to be with them today, but due to 
the votes in the Senate and the committee assignments, I have remained 
here in Washington, DC.



The 3rd Battalion served with distinction in both Kuwait and Iraq 
over the past year. When this unit was mobilized in 2006, it 
represented the largest mobilization of the Alaska National Guard since 
World War II. These Guard members represent 81 communities in our 
State, including many Alaska Native villages.

Before their deployment last October, Senator Murkowski and I met 
with this battalion in Camp Shelby. It was an exciting day as members 
of the units successfully completed their predeployment training. I was 
impressed with their high morale and dedication to our country.

Most of the members of the Alaskan Guard left behind families and 
jobs in Alaska to be part of this mission. Their departure caused 
hardship for their families and communities, especially in their small 
villages. But they were steadfast in their commitment to the mission 
and to our country.

The dedication of the 3rd Battalion reminds us that in our Nation's 
darkest moments--when freedom has been on the line--our citizen 
soldiers have answered the call to serve. Their duties and traditions 
are deeply rooted in our country's history. During the Civil War and 
World War II, it was our citizen soldier who tipped the balance and 
ensured our victory.

Members of the 3rd Battalion have carried forward this proud 
tradition. Their dedication to serve reflects the bravery and courage 
of those who came before them. Many of them are descendants of those 
who served with COL Muktuk Marston and other Eskimo Scouts in the 
Tundra Army during World War II. During that war in which I served, 
their predecessors defended our freedom in Alaska and around the world. 
I remember well the heroism of the National Guardsmen I served with in 
World War II. They, too, and these people now, have earned also the 
honor of being called the ''Greatest Generation.''

There are few of us left who lived through the dark history of World 
War II, but as I reflect on their service, I appreciate their bravery, 
commitment, and dedication. The men and women in uniform today are 
truly our newest ''Greatest Generation.'' We are comrades in the 
deepest sense of the word, and we should salute their service.

As citizen soldiers, they are a force not only on the battlefield but 
also a force in their communities. They are the link between the 
standing military units they serve and the people they protect. They 
also answer the call in national disasters.

In recent months, their mission was critical to the overall success 
of our operations in the Middle East and Iraq, and all Alaskans, 
especially those in their communities, are proud of their service.

On a day when we honor the 3rd Battalion, I believe we should also 
take a moment to reflect on those we have lost. Tragically, two Alaska 
Army Guard soldiers were killed and two were gravely injured in a 
training accident near Camp Shelby last year. We still mourn their 
deaths and send our deepest condolences to their families and friends.

We should ask God to bless them and God to bless the brave men and 
women, such as the Army National Guard, who volunteer to defend our 
great country. The thoughts and prayers of Alaskans, and I think of a 
grateful Nation, are with all of them.

I yield the floor.
