# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a30025585d70f0844b18e1bcc37ab8f4`
`Mr. BROWNBACK — 21 September 2007`

---


Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for that, for this 
amendment, and for his insight and prophetic view of what is really 
taking place. Senator Biden has mentioned for over a year that the 
likely outcome in Iraq is going to be a federalism model where you have 
most of your power in the states--the Kurdish north, the Sunni west, 
the Shia south, and Baghdad as the federal city.

I think we have had, hopefully now, enough debate about the military 
situation in Iraq. It is an important one, but we have not had much, if 
any, discussion about the political situation in Iraq. Last week, all 
the focus was on General Petraeus, and there was another individual who 
testified, Ambassador Crocker. General Petraeus talked about the 
military situation, and Ambassador Crocker talked about the political 
situation.

Regarding the military situation, I think we have seen incredible 
progress by the dedicated men and women in uniform, but we have seen 
little to no political progress. This discussion is about a ''political 
surge.'' We have had the military surge. It is moving forward and 
getting things done and stabilizing. All it can do is provide space for 
a political solution. It cannot put forward a solution that will last. 
You have to have that politically. So what we are going to talk about 
with this resolution is a political surge. Those are not my words; they 
are Thomas Friedman's. I think it is apt and its timing is right. I 
urge my colleagues to look at this resolution and support what this 
is--that we need a political surge, and we need to recognize the 
demographics on the ground.

This resolution simply calls for the following things: A conference 
where Iraqis reach a political settlement based on federalism; in 
effect, an agreement on new and already constitutionally recognized 
federal regions. This doesn't require a change in the Iraqi 
Constitution. It is already there. They allow the Kurdish north as a 
state. This would be allowing other states within Iraq.

No. 2, it calls on the international community to respect the results 
of that conference and to support federalism in Iraq, which is a 
concept we are very familiar with in the United States. I think that is 
really the key for it to work in Iraq.

No. 3, it calls on the Iraqi Government to resolve the issue of 
distributing oil revenues, which is crucial to any federal solution in 
Iraq. It is the oil that will keep the whole place together.

I show my colleagues a map that I think is kind of interesting. It is 
a map of Iraq under the Ottoman Empire. It is prior to the World War I 
divisions in Iraq. I think we ought to study history to keep from 
repeating past mistakes. I think we are repeating history now because 
we have not studied it sufficiently. So here is a map from 1914. This 
is fascinating. You have the north Ottoman, which were called vilayets. 
This is in the State of Mosul, the Kurdish north. You had the vilayet 
of Baghdad, the Sunni area in Iraq. You had the vilayet of Basra, the 
Shia State. Baghdad was the federal city--a very effective city at that 
particular time.

As much as a third of the population there was Jewish at that point 
in time. Those were the governing bodies within this region. The 
Ottoman Empire was concerned about whether the Basra region and the 
Shia there would stay with them or go with the Persians at that time. 
It is a similar discussion we are hearing today.

My reason for saying this is, if you can put it in a certain term, 
this is natural in Iraq. Instead of us trying to force together a 
country under Shia domination--and under the current setup all you are 
ever going to get is a Shia government, but it is going to be a weak 
one because the Kurds are not going to agree with a strong Shia 
government, nor are the Sunnis. All you can ever get is a weak Shia 
government that has a lot of question marks in it from the Sunnis. They 
don't trust the Shia, and the Shia don't trust the Sunnis. The Sunnis 
think they ought to run the whole country, as they have for the past 
century. They think the Sunnis are going to come back.

I was in Iraq in January. I went to the north, and I was in Baghdad. 
The Kurds are prospering, stable, growing, and investment is taking 
place. I will show you a map later of people moving from Baghdad to the 
northern portion because it is stable. I was meeting with the Sunni and 
Shia leaders in Baghdad. The Shia said: We could get this solved if it 
wasn't for the Sunni. The Sunni leaders would say: We could get this 
solved if it wasn't for the Shia. The Shia leaders were saying: We 
could get this solved if it wasn't for the Sunnis.

I submit to this body that we have a flawed political design that we 
are pushing currently in Baghdad. That is why we have not seen the 
political progress that we need to see taking place. We have done the 
military surge, which has been successful. Now we need a political 
surge. We need to send in a Jim Baker or a Condoleezza Rice to get 
these people in a room to cut the deal to get different states, where 
you have the power mostly residing in the states. Right now, in the 
Kurdish north, they run their own military, their own police, and they 
are stable. So you allow that and you even encourage that to take 
place. It is in the Iraqi


Constitution to allow that. That is how the Kurds got their region in 
the first place. That is a political design that can lead to political 
stability on the ground so that we can pull our troops back.

This amendment says nothing about the troops. We have debated that a 
long time--the military side. This is all about the political side 
where we have failed to see the progress. But it does say, if we can 
get that political solution, we should push it forward. I submit that 
on the military side, if we can get some political stability in Iraq, 
we can start to pull our troops back from patrolling.

Ultimately, I think you are going to see long-term U.S. military 
bases in the north, probably in the west, and around Baghdad. But they 
can be bases where we can operate without our people being killed every 
day. As everybody in this body knows, we are still in South Korea 60 
years after that conflict. We are still in Bosnia 15 years after that 
conflict. We can stay--and we usually do stay--in a place a long period 
of time to provide stability, as long as our people are not getting 
killed. Here is the design where you can stay for a long period of 
time--because I believe we will need to stay for a long time--without 
our men and women being killed. It reflects a demographic reality on 
the ground and the historic reality on the ground. It also recognizes 
that Iraq needs to have a strong state, weak federal form of government 
to reflect the different groups. Iraq, in many respects, is less a 
country than it is three groups held together by exterior forces. The 
Turks don't want the Kurds to be a separate country in the north. The 
Kurds already voted 90 percent that they want to have a separate 
country, but they are not pushing it today because they know they 
cannot do it at this point. So they are willing to stay within this 
situation.

The Sunnis believe they should run Iraq, but they are less than 20 
percent of the population. That is not going to happen. The Shia lack a 
comfort that they can control the country, but they are certainly 
dominant in a particular region.

I wish to show an ancient map of this very same situation to give an 
another flavor and context. Of course, under the Ottomans, it was 
called Mesopotamia during that period of time. Again, here is a three-
state solution that the Ottoman Empire put in place as a way of 
managing these different groups who do not agree with one another, who 
do not get along.

One can say: Wait a minute, there is a lot of intermarrying, there 
are a lot of Sunni-Shia relations that are taking place and have taken 
place over the years of being together as one country. You are trying 
to go back rather than go forward.

I wish to show a map of the former Yugoslavia right after Tito left 
and before some of the civil wars started in Yugoslavia because I think 
it is instructive. Here is a map of the ethnic composition before the 
war in 1991. It is an ethnic map that shows where the Croats, the 
Bosnians, and the Serbs were in this area in 1991. The reason I point 
this out is, I was in this country in 1991. I was there the week after 
the Slovenians voted to secede from the rest of Yugoslavia. I was in a 
conference with groups from all over the country. I couldn't tell the 
difference between the various ethnic groups.

When I would look, I couldn't tell if this person was a Croat or a 
Serb or a Macedonian, this, that. I couldn't tell the difference. It 
made no sense to me. These guys had been in a country together for 
decades. Why wouldn't they stay together? They knew the differences. 
They knew what happened. They knew the history. They had intermarried 
to where they had different ethnic groups who were married into the 
same families and spread, splotched all over the country. There were 
concentrations in different places, but over a period of, I think, 70 
years, under a hard dictatorial rule, under Tito, with a tough military 
and a tough intelligence apparatus, if someone got out of control, they 
were dead or in jail--similar to Saddam Hussein in Iraq, who ran 
roughshod and people intermingled.

Then we started to see political leadership come forward and say: We 
Serbs have been mistreated by this group and you know what they did to 
us a century ago and you know what they did to us in this war and you 
know what they did to us 500 years ago, and we shouldn't be treated 
that way. We had a leader come up that hit this visceral inside note 
and started a bunch of wars, to where they sorted themselves out.

This is what happens after you get a group of leaders standing up and 
saying they shouldn't treat the Croats this way, they shouldn't treat 
the Serbs this way. We can see the purity of the map--Bosnians, Serbs, 
Croats--and by 1995--this is the Dayton peace accords--you can see what 
takes place after that. That leader touched that visceral note about 
this is who we are and they shouldn't treat us that way and there were 
a bunch of people killed in the process as well.

Finally, there was enough fighting and we got a political surge in 
the Dayton accords and made the leaders come together. We drew a line, 
Bosnia-Herzegovina, in the Dayton peace agreement. We still have troops 
in this area enforcing this accord, but they are not fighting and 
killing each other. There are still problems that take place. But this 
was a two-state solution in one country, with the United States pushing 
a political surge to take place and the United States still having 
troops there to make sure people do not get out of line.

I went to Sarajevo when it started to stabilize. The place was still 
shellshocked about what had taken place. People were still saying: We 
used to live in peace; what happened here? What happened was somebody 
pushed the ethnic button and it worked, and it works in too many places 
in the world, and it works in Iraq, unfortunately.

I wish to show a chart of what happened in Baghdad on ethnic splits 
and the movements taking place in Baghdad. This is a military chart. It 
is too busy of a chart, and there are some who dispute some of the 
movements. I am willing to grant them that there may be others with a 
slightly different factual variation.

Basically, the Tigris River is in the middle. We see the Sunnis 
moving and purifying west of the Tigris River and the Shia moving and 
purifying east of the Tigris River. These diagonal lines show 
communities that are going more Shia and the diagonal lines in the 
opposite direction are communities going more Sunni, and we see small 
ethnic groups, small Christian populations who are either going into 
smaller, tighter communities or going north into the Kurdish region of 
the country.

This is happening now. This is what is happening now. We have heard 
about the death squads, threats, and families forced to move taking 
place in Baghdad. When a number of leaders push the ethnic sectarian 
button, it hits this inside visceral note. It is a strange concept to 
us as Americans. They come from everywhere, and we say: Can't you guys 
get along? Believe me, this is a reality in the world, and it is a big 
reality in Iraq, particularly in a place that is more three groups than 
it is one country.

I wish to give a caveat. The New York Times on Monday questioned the 
purity of this information, saying there are some Shia moving into 
Sunni areas and there are some Sunni moving into Shia areas, and I am 
willing to give that taking place. These are the megatrends that are 
happening, and I don't think there is any question about it.

There has been a lot of death, killing with this taking place. It is 
the same with Bosnia-Herzegovina. What I am saying is rather than 
having a whole bunch of people get killed from this point forward, why 
don't we recognize the demographic realities on the ground and put this 
in a series of states where the ethnic group is running it and stop the 
killing or certainly reduce it substantially. That is what this 
amendment calls for.

I wish to show my colleagues some of the maps of current Iraq, to 
give an idea. I have shown the Ottoman Empire maps. This is modern 
Iraq, as far as the populations are going. We have the Sunni Kurds in 
the north. Again, this is the most stable, growing area. When I was 
there, there were cranes and building and investment taking place. It 
is moving forward. We have the Sunni area in the west and the Shia area 
in the south. There are areas of Sunni Arab and Shia Arab. There is a 
mix of Shia-Sunni with Baghdad in the


center. Again, we have three blocs who have pretty much split up. This 
is modern Iraq.


This is not a perfect solution by any means. As an American, I look 
at it as a subpar solution altogether because I think they would be 
much better off if they could get along and form one country and 
operate it as one country without having to give decentralization so 
much of the power.

The problem is it does not reflect the realities on the ground. The 
problem is, too--think about Ambassador Crocker's testimony, think 
about the GAO report on political progress and the benchmarks that the 
Congress set. Think about those because militarily--I think 
''militarily'' we have done a great job and that is where all the focus 
is. But politically we are not getting it done because we are trying to 
put a square peg in a round hole. It doesn't work. We can push a long 
time on it and we can get some artificial setting to take place and we 
can enforce it with our military power, but as soon as we pull back, 
then we are going to have the same problems taking place in the region. 
This amendment recognizes we should put a round peg in a round hole, 
and it is something we can do.

There was a gentleman who said something to me years ago that stuck 
with me: If you see a straight-line border in the Middle East or 
Africa, you ought to raise a question as to whether it reflects 
demographic reality.

In the past, when different groups went into a region, whether the 
Ottomans, the British, the French, or others, they were trying to 
balance interests. They were trying to balance Hutus versus Tutsis. 
They were trying to balance previously the Armenians and Azerbaijanis. 
So they were always trying to get a balance of power because they 
didn't have enough troops to maintain the country, but if it kept these 
guys off center and not after each other, they could maintain the 
country.

When you pull the colonial power off or when you pull the dictator 
off who is ruthlessness, who is willing to use military and to use his 
intelligence operation to kill people, when you pull that off, what are 
you left with? You are left with these same groups, and they still 
don't like each other. That is why we have to look at it this way.

Look at Sudan today. I can give another example: The north Arab 
Muslims with a radicalized government started by Osama bin Laden. The 
south is Black, primarily Christian--long conflict, 20 years of civil 
war, millions killed. Finally, the Bush administration, to their 
credit, was able to negotiate a Sudan peace agreement, and the southern 
Sudanese will vote whether to secede. I believe they will in large 
numbers. It will pass big, and there will be a second Sudan.

We now have a second genocide in Darfur. I have been to many of these 
places. I have worked with many of these people. The west is Black 
Muslim. The capital is Arab Muslim. They don't get along. One is a 
group of herders and another is a group of farmers--farmers and 
ranchers not getting along. I think we are going to see ultimately that 
Darfur will break away.

Sudan is the biggest country in Africa landmasswise, but when the 
Brits put it together, they put several groups together who don't agree 
with each other and don't get along and the Government favors one. They 
favor the herders in Darfur; the jingaweit, the Arab Muslims. They are 
trying to drive the farmers off the land, and they are in their second 
genocide, with 400,000 people killed, because somebody, again, hit the 
ethnic-sectarian button, and it is very effective. One can motivate a 
lot of people by hitting that button.

Why do we have to kill all the people to get to a political solution? 
Why do so many people have to die? It is past time--the military 
discussion has been a good discussion, but it is time for us to look at 
the political situation in Iraq and get on a model that can actually 
produce long-term stability so we can pull our military back into 
bases. We are going to need to be there for a long period of time. This 
resolution does nothing on the military side, but I think we are going 
to need to be there for some period of time. We need to be in the north 
to assure the Turks that the Kurds are not going to try to separate 
into a separate country, and I think we need to be there to protect the 
Kurds from Iran, and somewhat from the Turks, and the Sunnis will ask 
us for a long-term military presence in the west to protect them from 
the Shia. I think the Saudis are going to push for that to take place.

Again, Iraq is a lot more three groups held together by exterior 
forces than it is a country. But that is the reality. The Shia area has 
to sort out who is going to be the leaders in that country, and they 
are fighting amongst themselves. It may be more than three states. It 
may be a couple of Shia states will evolve. We shouldn't stop that from 
taking place if that is the natural reality.

We can fight against these things in nature or we can recognize them 
and try to build political systems around them. This resolution urges 
us to build the political solutions around them.

Again, the political surge, led by Jim Baker, of stature, or 
Condoleezza Rice--cut the deal, get us into a political solution that 
can produce the benchmarks we want so we can pull our troops back and 
stop getting killed.

I urge my colleagues to look at this amendment. I urge my colleagues 
to look at the history of what we are dealing with. There are many 
papers that have been written on this issue. O'Hanlon is one of the 
lead authors on it who got back recently. This is something that can 
work, can make progress and move us forward.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.