---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES TECHNICAL SERGEANT RYAN A. BALMER
## `a30d2689f2eb06377f943f882dbb88d8`
`Mr. BAYH — 11 June 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart and deep 
sense of gratitude to honor the life of a brave airman from Mishawaka. 
Ryan Balmer, 33 years old, was killed on June 5 while deployed near 
Kirkuk, Iraq, when an improvised explosive device struck his vehicle. 
With an optimistic future before him, Ryan risked everything to fight 
for the values Americans hold close to our hearts, in a land halfway 
around the world.

Ryan has served in the Air Force since enlisting shortly after 
graduating Mishawaka High School in 1993. He was extremely proud of his 
military service and was nearing the end of his 6-month tour in Iraq 
when he was killed by the improvised explosive device. In addition to 
his military service, Ryan, the youngest of nine children, was the 
devoted husband of Danielle Balmer and the father of two sons and one 
daughter.

Ryan was killed while serving his country in Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
He was assigned to Detachment 113, 1st Field Investigations Region, 
stationed at Hill Air Force Base, UT. A good high school friend of 
Ryan's, Dave Falkenau, told local media that, ''[Ryan] would go out of 
his way for anyone; I wouldn't be surprised if he died trying to save 
someone else from dying.''

Today, I join Ryan's family and friends in mourning his death. While


we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of Ryan, a memory that will burn brightly 
during these continuing days of conflict and grief.

Ryan was known for his dedication to his family and his love of 
country. Today and always, Ryan will be remembered by family members, 
friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true American hero, and we honor the 
sacrifice he made while dutifully serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring Ryan's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of Ryan's actions will live on far longer than any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of Ryan A. Balmer in the official 
record of the Senate for his service to this country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace. When I think 
about this just cause in which we are engaged and the unfortunate pain 
that comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope that families like 
Ryan's can find comfort in the words of the prophet Isaiah who said, 
''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away 
tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Ryan.
