---
---

# THE NATIONAL DEBT AND THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `a31ba0cc581b4519187a82caff725835`
`Mr. ARCURI — 4 September 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. I thank my friend from Arkansas for yielding, and I would 
like to thank you for what you do for the Blue Dog Caucus.

You know, the thing that first attracted me to the Blue Dog Caucus 
was the fact that they believe so strongly in fiscal responsibility in 
the pay-as-you-go idea, and the fact that we have to tighten our belt, 
we have to make some very difficult decisions. It's not easy when there 
are things that we need for our district and things that we know we 
need here domestically, and yet we can't spend more than we have. And 
it's no different than we would in our own home. You don't buy things 
that we can't afford. We can't enact legislation, we can't create 
bureaucracies that we can't pay for. And that's why I'm so proud to be 
a member of the Blue Dog Caucus.

I did just return from Iraq just a few days ago. And I couldn't help, 
while I was there, noticing immediately the amount of money that we 
have spent in Iraq. You know, when you look at the fact that you ride 
along and you see that we have literally created, built whole cities in 
the middle of the desert, in the middle of this expansive environment 
we have actually created cities and the amount of money, the amount of 
cement, the amount of wood that we've used to build these bases and the 
amount of material that we have there. I can remember that in one of 
the bases we pulled up to one area, it was huge, and there was nothing 
but electric transformers in a huge field; and those were transformers 
that they were using to put new electric and bring new power to 
different places in Iraq. And then we drove a little further and there 
was another area with nothing but Humvees and another area with nothing 
but bulldozers. And you can't help but realize just how much money and 
how much time and expense we're expending to rebuild Iraq.

And during the course of our conversation while we were there, we 
were talking about some of the things to one of the members of the 
military, one of the things that they needed there. And I couldn't help 
but think back in my district in upstate New York, back in Utica, there 
are things that we need that we don't have. We need improvements to our 
airport that we don't have. We need improvements to our roads. And much 
like your district in Arkansas, we have been waiting for a connection 
between Utica and the city of Binghamton, a Route 12 extension. We've 
been waiting for years and years, since before I was born, for that; 
and still we talk about it. And yet we spend billions of dollars. You 
quoted the figure $16 million an hour we are spending in Iraq. We 
continue to spend it, and we've been doing it for years and years.

And while we continue to spend that money, we continue to spend 
resources that are critical to us while countries like China are 
continuing to invest


their money in their own economy, in creating jobs within their 
country. We need to be spending our money to create jobs in our 
country.

And, you know, while I was in Iraq, the one thing that I was struck 
by probably more than anything else is the incredible job that our 
troops are doing. Anybody that you talk to that's been to Iraq, the 
first thing they talk about is the incredible job that our troops are 
doing. And I couldn't help but think that any just cause anywhere in 
the world that we ask our troops to perform and complete, I have utter 
confidence that they can do it. Our military is just an incredible 
organization. They do what is asked of them and much, much more. And 
they have done the same in Iraq. And I think that it's time that we 
give them more direction in terms of a mission and that we start to 
give the Iraqi people a little more ability to stand on their own. I 
think when we start to bring our troops home, when we start to allow 
them to stand up and handle their own affairs, they will do it, and 
they will do it in a good way and in a fine way and we will be there to 
help them.


But, you know, there was a book written about 2,500 years ago by the 
Chinese general Sun Tzu, and it was called ''The Art of War.'' And in 
that he writes an interesting paragraph and he says that in any 
extended confrontation, regardless of how wise a nation's counselors 
are, no country can win in a prolonged war.

This war has been prolonged far too long. It is time, I believe, for 
us to focus upon what is important here domestically, that we stop 
focusing on spending so much money in Iraq and we begin to focus again 
on the things that are happening here in this country. So I believe 
that it's time that we allow the country of Iraq to stand up for 
itself, and that we begin to bring our troops home.

I thank you, and I yield back.