---
---

# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `a31c5c2685311865601caad99dc8f64f`
`Mr. LEVIN — 11 July 2008`

---


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I am deeply concerned by the apparent lack 
of a clear and consistent U.S. policy on the entering into of oil deals 
in Iraq in the absence of Iraqi national hydrocarbon legislation. 
Unfortunately, that hydrocarbon legislation, which would ensure 
equitable distribution of oil revenues among the Iraqi people, and 
enable increased oil production and long-term foreign investment, 
remains stalled in the Iraqi Assembly. Continued failure by the Iraqi 
Government to pass national hydrocarbon legislation, a political 
benchmark which was set by the Iraqis for themselves, risks fracturing 
the country and jeopardizing hard-fought gains.

Last September, Hunt Oil Company, an American firm, was the first 
company to sign a production-sharing contract with the Kurdistan 
Regional Government, or KRG. The KRG has now apparently signed 
approximately two dozen such contracts with international oil 
companies, all of which have been condemned by the Iraqi national 
Government. Iraq's Oil Minister has called these deals ''illegal'' and 
the State Department's May 2008 report on Iraq indicates that progress 
on national hydrocarbon legislation has been ''complicated by the KRG's 
pursuit of oil contracts'' and is now ''at a standstill.''

Administration officials have stated publicly and in letters to me 
that U.S. policy strongly discourages oil production-sharing contracts 
between private companies and regional governments in Iraq, including 
the KRG. However, representatives from Hunt Oil Company have indicated 
that they specifically asked about U.S. policy regarding such deals in 
meetings with State Department employees prior to Hunt Oil signing 
their production-sharing contract with the KRG and were told ''there 
was no policy, neither for nor against.'' I am concerned that if a 
policy discouraging contracts with regional governments was in place 
prior to the signing of Hunt Oil's contract with the KRG, that it was 
not adequately understood or communicated by State Department employees 
in their interactions with Hunt Oil and other international oil 
companies seeking to do business in Iraq.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a letter I wrote to the 
President's National Security Advisor, Stephen Hadley, and his response 
to me on this issue be printed in the Record.