# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT BASIC PAY FOR MEMBERS OF ARMED  FORCES SHOULD BE INCREASED
## `a320938d7676c4e3e2d6b4de5e8bf7f8`
`Mr. LOEBSACK — 6 November 2007`

---


Mr. LOEBSACK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to echo the vital message 
of this resolution.

Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal 
Year 2008 Defense Authorization bill with overwhelming bipartisan 
support. Included in that bill is a 3.5 percent pay raise for the men 
and women who wear our country's uniform.

While we will never be able to fully repay the debt we owe to our 
troops and their families for their service and sacrifice on behalf of 
our Nation, this pay raise is the very least that we can do in 
recognition of their commitment to our country.

Today our servicemembers and our military families are answering 
their call to duty with dedication and honor, despite lengthy 
deployments and little time at home. I recently returned from visiting 
our troops in Iraq--including the Iowa National Guard 833rd Engineer 
Battalion based in my District. What I heard overwhelmingly from our 
servicemembers is that they take pride in serving their country but are 
concerned about the hardship placed on their families at home. The 
833rd was redeployed to Iraq after only 14 months at home. These 
citizen soldiers have paid a high price in their civilian and family 
lives in order to serve their country. The pay raise provided by the 
Defense Authorization bill is well deserved and a token of the 
appreciation of a grateful Nation.

Unfortunately the Administration has deemed the .5 percent added by 
Congress to its request for a 3 percent raise to be ''unnecessary.'' I, 
and many others in this Congress, say it is necessary. I am a cosponsor 
of this resolution because I strongly believe we have a responsibility 
to provide for our servicemembers both on the battlefield and 
throughout their lives.

This resolution also highlights the importance of a provision in the 
Defense Authorization bill that provides the families of fallen 
soldiers with a $40 per month special survivor indemnity allowance in 
relief of the ''Military Families Tax.'' The Administration also 
opposes this provision. Its opposition is once again misplaced. This 
tax is unfairly placed on more than 60,000 survivors of those who have 
paid the ultimate sacrifice for our country.

I am proud that as a Freshman Member of the House Armed Services 
Committee, I helped shape a Defense Authorization bill that recognizes 
the dedication and honor of our troops. I urge my colleagues to support 
this resolution and to send a strong message that the United States 
Congress recognizes the sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform 
and is committed to providing lifelong support to our servicemembers 
and our military families.

Madam Speaker, at this time I have no further requests for time, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.