# IRAQ
## `a32712e58b874a23cab7eb6962446447`
`Mr. CORNYN — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I appreciate the comments we have heard 
this morning from the distinguished Senator from Nevada and the 
distinguished Senator from Louisiana, and I couldn't agree more with 
the comments they have made. I would like to add some, perhaps, even 
more eloquent words--and rest assured they are not mine--to this debate 
because I think it helps us understand in a way that we might not 
otherwise understand what is at stake and what the people who are most 
directly impacted believe is at stake in the war on terror, 
particularly the conflict in Iraq.

I first want to quote the words of Roy Velez. Roy is from Lubbock, 
TX, and has lost two sons--one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. 
Recently, Roy Velez said:




 It is not about President Bush. It is not about being a 


 Democrat or a Republican. It is about standing behind a 


 country that we love so much. I know it has cost us a lot in 


 lives, including my two sons, and it has taken a toll on 


 America. But we can't walk away from this war until we're 


 finished.


I don't know anyone who has earned the right to speak so directly to 
what is at stake, the sacrifices that have been made, and the 
consequences of our leaving Iraq before it is stabilized and able to 
govern and defend itself.

Then there is also the story of 2LT Mark J. Daily. Lieutenant Daily 
was 23 years old from Irvine, CA. He was with the 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 1st Cavalry Division out of Fort Bliss, TX. Lieutenant Daily was 
killed on January 15 when an improvised explosive device exploded and 
ripped through his vehicle, taking his life and those of three fellow 
soldiers. Mark had been, as so many of our military have done, keeping 
in touch with his family via e-mail, and he maintained a blog on the 
popular My Space Web site. In that blog, Mark specifically explained 
why he joined, and this is what he wrote:




 Why I joined: This question has been asked of me so many 


 times in so many different contexts that I thought it would 


 be best if I wrote my reasons for joining the Army on my page 


 for all to see. First, the more accurate question is why I 


 volunteered to go to Iraq. After all, I joined the Army a 


 week after we declared war on Saddam's government with the 


 intention of going to Iraq. Now, after years of training and 


 preparation, I am finally here. Much has changed in the last 


 three years. The criminal Baath regime has been replaced by 


 an insurgency fueled by Iraq's neighbors who hope to 


 partition Iraq for their own ends. This is coupled with the 


 ever-present transnational militant Islamist movement which 


 has seized upon Iraq as the greatest way to kill Americans, 


 along with anyone else who happens to be standing near. What 


 was once a paralyzed state of fear is now the staging area 


 for one of the largest transformations of power and ideology 


 the Middle East has experienced since the collapse of the 


 Ottoman Empire.


I would say in closing that we can't claim to support the troops and 
not support their mission. If we don't support the mission, we should 
not pass nonbinding resolutions. We should do everything within our 
power to stop it. I do believe that we should support that mission. I 
do believe we should support our troops. That is why I believe we 
should send them the message that, yes, we believe you can succeed, and 
it is important to our national security that you do.

I yield the floor.