# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `a341571f3680f8344e30e0ccd94e0498`
`Mr. NELSON of Nebraska â€” 5 February 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Nebraska. Mr. President, I state again for my 
colleagues that this debate is not about support for the troops or 
support for their extraordinary work on the ground in Iraq. Our troops, 
the best fighting force in the history of the world, have performed 
admirably, honorably, and successfully under extreme and dangerous 
conditions in Iraq. We are not here today to besmirch their efforts, 
their work, or their sacrifice. To indicate otherwise is disingenuous 
and out of line.

This is not the time or the place for political attacks. The 
President even made an offer to Congress before a nationally televised 
audience on January 10 that, ''if Members have improvements that can be 
made, we will make them.''

This is a debate about a serious topic: What is the way forward in 
Iraq? How can we achieve a political solution without the additional 
loss of American lives?

One of my colleagues has said over and over, ''this comes down to if 
you support an escalation or not'' and ''the American people deserve 
this debate.'' For me, the question is, Will the Senate lead? Will the 
Senate express its opposition to the surge? I know many do not think 
passing a nonbinding resolution is leading, and I know others say the 
resolution goes too far. I say that, on an issue of this magnitude, an 
issue this important, it is critical for the Senate to speak with the 
strongest voice possible. Generating a revised resolution with broader 
appeal was putting our best foot forward in securing the strongest 
bipartisan vote possible.

I am proud to have worked with my colleague, Senator Warner, the most 
recent past chairman of the Armed Services Committee, and our 
colleague, Senator Collins of Maine, in this cause. They have shown 
tremendous leadership on this issue, as have Senator Levin, Senator 
Biden, and Senator Hagel. But it seems that even when it comes to the 
lives of our troops, partisanship prevails. Here we are, after weeks of 
negotiations, after weeks of public proclamations, after weeks of 
consideration, about to witness the minority choose politics over 
progress--and this is after we revised our original resolution to 
address some of the concerns that were raised by both Democrats and 
Republicans.

It is important that we point out that this is not simply about being 
opposed to a surge. It is about opposition to a surge to do what? To go 
into Baghdad? To go into the midst of sectarian violence, civil war, 
criminality? There is no opposition to continuing to support troops in 
Al-Anbar and even an increase in the troops to fight the bad guys in 
that location. But that is altogether different from going into Baghdad 
where our troops will be expected to be on the point and in harm's way 
in the midst of sectarian violence that is unparalleled across our 
great world today. But in strong support of Iraq, we must, in fact, do 
what we can to support Iraq but without putting our troops in the midst 
of that caldron.

The Baker-Hamilton report made things very clear. We have established 
benchmarks as well--that we should empower the Iraqi Government to be 
able to do what it can to quell its own violence. We cannot win their 
civil war. We cannot stop the violence in Baghdad. Only a political 
solution achieved by the Iraqis will be able to do that.

If we are to do our duty, if we are to exhibit leadership, let us 
begin by allowing a full debate on the resolutions we have pending. 
Let's talk about the President's plan to deploy American troops to the 
crossroads of civil war in Iraq. Let's talk about holding the Iraqi 
Government accountable for its responsibilities.

I am prepared to defend the resolutions I have offered with Senators 
Warner, Collins, and Levin. I am prepared to vote on the McCain 
resolution. And I am prepared for the debate because its time has come.

I ask my colleagues, if not now, when? If not now, do we wait for 
more troops to die before we oppose the President's plan? If not now, 
do we wait for more violence, more unrest, more danger for our troops 
before we act? Some have said the President deserves one last chance to 
succeed. How do we ask our troops to do again what has failed in the 
past? We have had other surges that have not succeeded for a variety of 
reasons, not the least of which is the Iraqis have not shown up. So 
what is different this time?

I hope we do not look at this as our last hurrah.

I yield the floor.

