---
---

# JAMAL RASHARD ADDISON POST OFFICE BUILDING
## `a34834b80f8aec42865bf62d60d43cb3`
`Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia — 12 February 2008`

---


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
4203, my bill to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 3035 Stone Mountain Street in Lithonia, Georgia, as 
the ''Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison Post Office Building.''

The war in Iraq continues, and no matter what our differing opinions 
are on it, it is imperative that we honor those who have fallen serving 
our country. Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison was one of the first to 
meet an untimely end, and it is my privilege to stand here today to 
honor him.

Jamaal was born on October 7, 1980, to Patricia M. Roberts and Kevin 
B. Addison. He was the first Georgia soldier to lose his life in the 
Iraq war. He is survived by his parents and his 6-year-old son, Jamaal 
RaShard Addison, the 2nd. Jamaal was a lifelong resident of the Fourth 
District of Georgia, which is where I represent, and he was raised in 
the City of Lithonia for most of his life from 1981 to 1998.

He attended Henderson Mill Elementary School, Henderson Middle 
School, and Lakeside High School. Motivated by the opportunity to train 
as a computer technician and to help provide for his family, Jamaal 
joined the ROTC at Lakeside High School in Decatur, Georgia, in 2000.

After enlisting in the United States Army, Jamaal completed his basic 
training at Fort Benning and also at Fort Gordon in Georgia before 
serving a year in Korea. As a member of the 507th Maintenance Company, 
Jamaal was part of the initial invasion of Iraq. He was killed just 
days after he arrived there on March 23, 2003, when his convoy took a 
wrong turn and was ambushed near Nasiriyah. He was just 23 years old.



Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison was the first Georgia soldier to 
pay the ultimate price in the Iraq war. Out of this tragedy, however, 
has come some good in the form of the Jamaal Addison Motivational 
Foundation, Inc., founded by Jamaal's mother, Patricia Roberts.

The foundation works with young people to offer opportunities for 
positive growth and to expose youth to the wide options available to 
them to lead successful lives. It offers youth an 8-week program 
designed to motivate, teach, and inspire them to develop into citizens 
of stature to give back to the community.

I've had the pleasure of working with Mrs. Roberts and have seen 
firsthand the tremendous impact that this foundation has had upon our 
community. Jamaal's father, Kevin Addison, is a career postal worker; 
and so renaming this post office is a particularly fitting tribute to a 
fine young man who was an excellent father as well.

Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison paid the ultimate price by giving 
his life in service to his country. He was the first of too many 
Georgians to perish in Iraq. This year marks the fifth anniversary of 
his untimely passing, and I am very pleased to be able to offer this 
bill in his memory.

America's fallen soldiers are heroes who deserve our enduring 
support. I ask my colleagues and all Americans to recognize those who 
have fallen and those who are currently serving by supporting this 
legislation.