---
---

# None
## `a34d5a1ee7b04b09ab3e891a647bd06b`
`Mr. CASEY — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today to express my concerns, shared 
by so many of my constituents in Pennsylvania and across the country, 
about the war in Iraq and how our efforts there have exacted a direct 
cost on the fight against al-Qaida and its affiliates in Afghanistan.

The bills introduced today by Senator Feingold and Majority Leader 
Reid have prompted an important debate about our national security. I 
believe it is our duty, as elected officials, to level with the 
American people on the war in Iraq, both on the reality of the 
situation on the ground and in the context of our Nation's broader 
strategic priorities. We must speak truth to the anxiety of the 
American people on what we are doing to make this country more secure.

Our Nation recently marked the 1-year anniversary of the President's 
decision to initiate a troop escalation into Iraq. We are quickly 
coming up on the fifth anniversary of the invasion of Iraq. As the 
President said in January of 2007, when announcing the goals of his 
troop escalation, ''Iraqis will gain confidence in their leaders and 
the government will have the breathing space it needs to make progress 
in other critical areas.'' Judged by those standards enunciated by the 
President himself, the surge has not worked. While we all welcome the 
reduction in violence, that metric was never the be-all and end-all in 
determining whether the surge worked.

Monday of this week, the Pentagon said it expected 140,000 U.S. 
troops would remain in Iraq this July, 8,000 more troops than when the 
President's troop buildup began in January of 2007.

These extended troop deployments have imposed a significant toll on a 
U.S. military already stretched dangerously thin by this war. We have 
provided Iraqis with some ''breathing space'' and violence in many 
parts of Iraq is, indeed, down. That fact is attributable to the fine 
men and women of our armed services and to their skills as the finest 
fighting force in history. Yet Iraq is still not a secure Nation 
because progress on the essential tasks of political reconciliation has 
not been achieved by the Iraqis. General Petraeus has been very clear 
on this point: The war in Iraq can only be won politically, not 
militarily.

Although the Bush administration immediately praised the three reform 
measures recently passed by the Iraqi Parliament, the package served 
only to postpone critical discussions on the future of the country and 
underscore the fractured State of the Iraqi Government. The Parliament 
approved a 2008 budget, passed a provincial powers law defining a 
division of responsibility between the central government in Baghdad 
and regional authorities, and issued an amnesty bill that may free 
thousands of prisoners from the disaffected Sunni community. But the 
potential details and implementation of these laws, especially on the 
amnesty bill, remain a critical question mark. What the Iraqi 
leadership failed to achieve and the decisions of Parliament chose to 
kick down the road, so to speak, is perhaps more notable than the 
short-term successes. The government has yet to tackle the most 
divisive issue in Iraq, and that is this: who controls the country's 
oil and how to distribute the proceeds. To take the most egregious 
example, the Kurdistan regional government in the north passed its own 
oil law last August, signing dozens of contracts with international oil 
firms, which the central government in Baghdad deems illegal. The 
Iraqis have devised a de facto approach for splitting oil proceeds in 
the short term, but that arrangement is vulnerable to breakdown at any 
time.


Legislative accomplishments by the Iraqi Parliament are welcome but 
can be very deceiving. So long as the very parliamentarians who passed 
these recent bills cannot leave the Green Zone without fear of 
assassination attempts or suicide bombings, Iraq remains an unsecured 
nation.

Just as Iraqi progress on internal reconciliation is sorely lacking, 
I am also distressed by our short-term strategy of pacifying local 
actors in Iraq to improve security while ignoring the underlying 
political and sectarian fault line in Iraq. In short, this approach is 
not sustainable and is undermining--undermining--our overarching 
objective of national reconciliation.

At the same time we speak of bridging the sectarian divides, the U.S. 
''awakening strategy'' in western and central Iraq is arming Sunni 
tribal leaders and integrating former insurgents into the rough 
equivalent of militias--all in a process separate from and parallel to 
the national armed forces of Iraq.



As an article in Time magazine recently noted, a number of these 
''concerned local citizens'' militias, organized and supported by the 
U.S. military, are now turning on each other in a contest for influence 
and territory. The Shia-led central government views these armed 
militias as undermining its central authority and has balked at 
integrating large numbers of Sunnis into the national Iraqi security 
forces. So at this point we must ask ourselves whether the U.S. 
Government, in service of a worthy but short-term objective of 
suppressing violence in Iraq, is only paving the road for a large-scale 
future conflict by arming sectarian groups separate from the national 
army and police. That is an important question we must consider.

Let me say, Mr. President, sometimes short and telling anecdotes tell 
a story. We have read recently that the Iranian President, Mr. 
Ahmadinejad, will make a visit to Baghdad next week for talks with 
Prime Minister al-Maliki and other officials. This visit has already 
been announced, with details of his itinerary available to the press 
and the public. By sharp contrast, when President Bush, Secretary Rice 
and/or Secretary Gates visit Iraq, they travel to Baghdad unannounced 
and rarely leave the fortified walls of the Green Zone.

Another example. When Senator Durbin and I visited Iraq last August, 
we flew from the airport to the Green Zone in low-flying, fast-moving 
helicopters practicing evasive maneuvers. Here is a question we should 
ask ourselves: Why can the Iranian President drive in an open manner 
into Baghdad while U.S. leaders must sneak into the country under the 
cloak of darkness? Five years into our occupation of Iraq, what does 
this say about our role in Iraq and the security of that nation?

As Iraq continues to dominate the attention and resources of our 
Government, it clouds and confuses our long-term U.S. strategic 
priorities. I remain troubled, as so many others here remain troubled, 
that a ''Declaration of Principles'' signed on November 26, 2007, by 
President Bush and Prime Minister al-Maliki commits our Nation to 
''providing security assurances and commitments to the Republic of Iraq 
to deter future aggression against Iraq that violates its sovereignty 
and integrity of its territories, waters, or airspace.'' That is what 
the Declaration of Principles says in part.

Although Secretary Rice assured me during a recent Senate Foreign 
Relations hearing that no such commitments will be extended to Iraq, I 
remain deeply skeptical. In concert with my colleagues, I will continue 
to exercise vigorous oversight to ensure that President Bush does not 
lock the United States into a binding and long-term security commitment 
to Iraq.

It is time to refocus our energies and our efforts on the ''forgotten 
war'' in Afghanistan. Our focus on Iraq has distracted from and 
undermined the central front in the war on terrorism.

ADM Mike Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently 
testified before Congress, and he said:




 In Afghanistan, we do what we can. In Iraq, we do what we 


 must.


With all due respect to Admiral Mullen, he has it wrong. We should do 
what we must in both places.

We know that 6 years ago America was fighting and winning the war in 
Afghanistan, and al-Qaida and the Taliban were on the run. But instead 
of staying and accomplishing our mission in Afghanistan by hunting down 
those who planned the 9/11 attacks, this administration diverted our 
attention to Iraq. Today, the Taliban has returned with a vengeance and 
controls more territory than at any time since its ouster in 2001. 
Afghanistan is on the brink of becoming yet again a failed state and 
thus a safe haven for al-Qaida to launch deadly attacks, including 
against the American homeland.

Three recent bipartisan reports on Afghanistan concluded that the 
situation on the ground is dire. One report, coauthored by retired 
general Jim Jones and Ambassador Thomas Pickering, puts it bluntly, and 
I quote in part:




 The progress achieved after 6 years of international 


 engagement is under serious threat from resurgent violence, 


 weakening international resolve, mounting regional 


 challenges, and a growing lack of confidence on the part of 


 the Afghan people about the future direction of their 


 country. The United States and the international community 


 have tried to win the struggle in Afghanistan with too few 


 military forces and insufficient economic aid, and without a 


 clear and consistent comprehensive strategy.


That is the Jones and Pickering report from which I am quoting.

When Secretary of Defense Gates is forced to go public with 
criticisms of the refusal of our NATO allies to deploy more forces in 
Afghanistan and his skepticism of their ability to conduct 
counterinsurgency operations, we must admit that the situation on the 
ground is getting worse in Afghanistan, not better. Military officials 
expect the coming year to be even more deadly, as the Taliban becomes 
more deadly and deploys greater numbers of suicide bombers and roadside 
explosives. U.S. forces remain largely isolated in Afghanistan, with 
key NATO allies refusing to provide ground support and imposing onerous 
restrictions on where and how they can fight. The end result is that 
the very future of NATO, the most successful alliance in modern 
history, is now in grave danger.


In a welcome display of straight-talk, Secretary Gates admitted that 
the very reason large segments of the European public do not support 
NATO operations in Afghanistan is due to their antipathy toward U.S. 
policy in Iraq. Secretary Gates recently asserted in Munich:




 Many of them, I think, have a problem with our involvement 


 in Iraq and project that to Afghanistan, and do not 


 understand the very different--for them--the very different 


 kind of threat.


That is what Secretary Gates said recently.

Mr. President, let me conclude with this thought: The war in Iraq has 
indeed strained our military, limiting the number of combat divisions 
we can provide in Afghanistan. It has undermined our global leadership, 
depriving us of the moral authority to demand more of our allies, and 
it has diverted the attention of our senior military and civilian 
leadership, allowing the Taliban to mount a comeback under our very 
eyes. We are losing a war we cannot afford to lose in a futile and 
misguided effort to force success in another conflict that can only be 
won politically, not militarily. Our priorities are tragically 
mistaken, and our Nation is paying a severe cost.

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a 
quorum.