---
---

# ENHANCING SMALL BUSINESS RESEARCH AND INNOVATION ACT OF 2009
## `a35ad5e1e79f99b0118b576311aa6c1b`
`Ms. VELAZQUEZ — 8 July 2009`

---


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, the manager's amendment makes technical 
and conforming changes to the underlying legislation. It also 
incorporates several important amendments offered by Members.

I would like to thank these Members for their contributions: Mr. 
Barrow, Mr. Boren, Mr. Boswell, Ms. Sutton, Mr. Cardoza, Mr. Childers, 
Mrs. Dahlkemper, Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mr. Kratovil, Ms. Markey, Mr. 
McNerney, Ms. McCollum and Mr. Perlmutter.

Because of their contributions, we have a stronger bill before us 
today. The provisions that are included in the manager's amendment will 
foster what we are doing to help veteran small businesses. As a new 
generation of veterans returns home from the current conflicts in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, many of them will be seeking opportunities through 
entrepreneurship. Veterans are often well suited to be small business 
owners.

The manager's amendment will also enhance our outreach to women- and 
minority-owned businesses. Diversity has always been our Nation's 
greatest strength. By expanding the diversity of the firms that compete 
for SBIR grants, we will strengthen the overall SBIR program. The same 
can be said about the provisions in the manager's amendment that will 
encourage greater participation by rural businesses. Drawing these 
companies into the program will mean more ideas and better ideas.

In addition to encouraging greater diversity among participating 
firms, the manager's amendment targets SBIR and STTR groups toward a 
number of pressing problems where innovation and research are badly 
needed. For instance, language in the amendment clarifies that the 
programs shall make renewable energy a priority. Small businesses are 
already leading the way in constructing a green economy, and this 
provision will build on that success.

Lastly, the manager's amendment improves oversight. The 111th 
Congress has made oversight one of our top priorities to ensure that 
taxpayers' dollars are spent wisely and well.

This amendment continues that effort. SBIR and STTR are two of our 
Nation's most successful programs. It is our goal to ensure they 
continue functioning smoothly and effectively.

Mr. Chairman, I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this 
amendment.

I reserve the balance of my time.