---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `a3621bf58d0e132650081187e337b9c0`
`Mrs. BOXER — 21 May 2009`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the 
2009 Supplemental Appropriations Act. My vote today does not indicate a 
blank check for the administration. But it is indicative of a strong 
desire on my part to begin to change to a new approach in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

We all know about the challenges President Obama inherited from 8 
long years of the Bush administration. He was left with an economy and 
recession, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, diminished U.S. standing 
around the globe, a country more dependent on foreign oil, and a 
resurgent al-Qaida.



Today, we have a new administration with clear priorities and 
realistic foreign policy objectives. We must give President Obama and 
his administration the resources and flexibility they need to move U.S. 
foreign policy in a new direction. If we were to walk away from this 
change in policy that is reflected in this supplemental, I think the 
message we are sending is for the status quo. The status quo does not 
deserve a vote.

Again, I repeat, my vote is not a blank check. I am voting for this 
bill not because I want the United States to remain bogged down in two 
wars, but because I want to give this administration--the Obama 
administration--the resources it needs to successfully end these wars, 
starting with the war in Iraq. Furthermore, I don't support an open-
ended commitment of American troops to Afghanistan; and if we do not 
see measurable progress, we must reconsider our engagement and strategy 
there.

In particular, we must do more to sharply reduce the numbers of 
heartbreaking civilian casualties. As ADM Mike Mullen, Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently said:




 We cannot succeed in Afghanistan, or anywhere else . . . by 


 killing Afghan civilians. . . .


In a reference to a U.S. airstrike in the Farah Province, Admiral 
Mullen said:




 We can't keep going through incidents like this and expect 


 the strategy to work.


I could not agree more. President Obama promised the American people 
a new way forward in Iraq and a new way forward in Afghanistan. The 
passage of this bill will allow him to put the pieces in place to keep 
his promises by finishing the mission in Afghanistan, which was 
shortchanged because of the Iraq war. I want to talk about that for a 
minute.

I voted, after 9/11, to go after al-Qaida, to go after the Taliban, 
to go after Osama bin Laden. The administration, instead of doing that, 
turned around and went into Iraq under the false premise that Iraq had 
something to do with 9/11. We still have former Vice President Cheney 
out there trying to convince the people that was the right thing to do. 
That was the wrong thing to do. There have been so many needless deaths 
in Iraq. We left Afghanistan, and the Taliban returned in force; and 
the people there are under the yoke of the Taliban in many parts of 
that country. What a tragedy, because of a mistaken policy. What a 
terrible legacy, because of a mistaken policy. Yet the debate rages on. 
So I am going to engage in that debate.

I believe we need to tackle this mission in Afghanistan, which was 
shortchanged. I believe we must increase the role of the State 
Department and our civilian agencies in working toward peace. I know my 
colleague in the chair, Senator Kaufman, has been very eloquent on this 
point--a new way to allow the Afghan people to, in essence, take back 
their country. We need to train Afghan security forces so we can 
ultimately change the nature of our mission there and bring our troops 
home. That is the goal.

I have heard my Republican friends say they don't know what the goal 
is in Afghanistan. That is OK. I don't think there is any problem 
explaining what it is. We want to go after al-Qaida. We want to 
decrease the influence of the Taliban and defeat them, if we have to. 
Hopefully, we can, in fact, work with some of them. I am not convinced 
of that, but it may be possible. We need to give the Afghan security 
forces the ability to defend their own people.

There is a lot more we have to do over there to protect the most 
vulnerable Afghans, and that means the women and the children of 
Afghanistan. I will talk more about that because this supplemental 
takes a huge step forward in protecting the women and children there.

It seems to me we have to give President Obama an opportunity to 
bring about the change he promised. If I see that change is not coming, 
I am not going to be there. But today, I believe we should give him 
that chance.

To think that we actually had Osama bin Laden cornered at one time, 
but the obsession with Saddam Hussein drove us away in those Bush years 
from that mission and brought us into a situation where we have lost so 
many of our young men and women, many of them--30,000--were injured, 
some with horrific injuries, and many more are suffering from post-
traumatic stress and brain injury.

President Bush took his eye off Afghanistan, and so did Vice 
President Cheney. Frankly, sadly, we come to this day. I understand why 
some colleagues might just say: I don't want to hear about it. I don't 
want to spend any more money on it. Just forget it.

I don't think that is the way to go. I think President Obama said 
very clearly that he is going to bring change. I think this is the day. 
We either stand for change or for the status quo. That is my belief.

In the Bush years we never really had enough resources to fight al-
Qaida in Afghanistan because we were waging an open-ended war in Iraq. 
Remember, there were no benchmarks for progress. It was day after day, 
death after death after death. Frankly, because the Iraq war fueled 
recruitment by al-Qaida, our Nation's security has been compromised. 
Our standing in the world has suffered. Again, most heartbreaking, 
American servicemembers and their families have paid the price.

In my view, there are four provisions in the supplemental that will 
help to correct our course.

First, the bill provides funding to get our troops home from Iraq. 
These provisions are essential for President Obama to meet his date of 
August 31, 2010, to remove combat brigades from Iraq and remove all of 
our troops by the end of 2011.

For those of us who want to bring the troops home, the funding to do 
that is in this supplemental. So, clearly, when we vote for this, we 
vote to begin that process. The responsibility for security must be 
turned over to the Iraqis--and quickly. U.S. forces cannot continue to 
shoulder the burden there anymore. The people there have to decide if 
they want to live together or die together. They have to look at these 
ethnic divisions and make their own decisions. We will help. We will 
always help. But it is their decision.

So the first part of the bill is funding to begin bringing the troops 
home from Iraq.

Second, this bill seeks to turn things around in Afghanistan by 
providing a significant investment in diplomacy and development, 
including, very importantly to me and to a lot of my colleagues, for 
the Afghan women. A military solution alone will not solve the problems 
in Afghanistan. We need a strategy that helps the Government provide 
for its people and invest in the civil society and those programs that 
are crucial to the long-term security and prosperity of that country.

Development is very important to the people of Afghanistan. I am very 
proud that this bill takes critical steps to support Afghan women and 
girls. Today, more than 7 years after the international community 
helped free Afghan women from the prison of life under the Taliban, the 
situation for women in Afghanistan remains dire.

I want to say to Senator Leahy and his staff: Thank you. Thank you 
for listening. Thank you for working with us. Thank you for working 
with the women-led nongovernmental organizations.

Without Senator Leahy and his staff, we would not have this language 
in the bill. I wanted to make that point.

More than 80 percent of the women in Afghanistan are illiterate. More 
than one in six die in childbirth. These are the voices that have been 
forgotten. We cannot return to the days when Afghan women had to be 
draped in burqas against their will. If you have never tried on a 
burqa--and I am sure most people haven't--let me tell you what it feels 
like, because I did. You disappear. You become nothing. Remember when 
women were murdered in cold blood by the Taliban in soccer stadiums? 
Those days must be over.

It seems to me that walking away from this supplemental at this time 
says we are walking away from those women. We need to help them. We 
need to do everything we can to give them a chance because to not do so 
would be tragic.

This bill specifically appropriates $100 million for programs that 
directly address the needs of Afghan women and girls. In addition to 
Senator Leahy and his staff, I thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey and her 
staff. In the House bill, they also put in quite a few resources for 
the women-led NGOs. In our bill, we do even more to directly address 
the


needs of women and girls, including funding for the Afghan Human Rights 
Commission and Afghan Ministry of Women's Affairs.

I wrote a bill called the Afghan Women Empowerment Act. Specifically, 
the supplemental appropriates $30 million for Afghan women-led 
nongovernmental organizations, which is a key component of that bill. 
The international community cannot stay in Afghanistan indefinitely. We 
know that. So this funding will help empower those organizations that 
will provide for the needs of the Afghan community long after the 
international community has left.

The supplemental includes $10 million to train and support Afghan 
women investigators, police officers, prosecutors, and judges with 
responsibility for investigating, prosecuting, and punishing crimes of 
violence against women and girls.

This is particularly important in a country where women have been so 
marginalized. No female victim of violence will ever come forward if 
she believes there is no system in place or resources to help her. What 
happens if she comes forward is that she becomes a target. I don't know 
how you feel about it--I think I can guess--when any of us sees little 
girls being attacked with acid when they are going to school. There is 
something deeply wrong if America turns away from that. We cannot, it 
seems to me, in good conscience not give this one more chance, which is 
what this supplemental is doing because it is taking a major step to 
give the Afghan people the chance to stand up for their women, 
children, and families.

Third, this bill recognizes the importance of Pakistan, a 
dysfunctional, nuclear-armed nation that has some of the most notorious 
al-Qaida terrorists within its borders. Pakistan is one of the greatest 
threats to international security that we face today. This danger is 
such a concern that Bruce Riedel, a Brookings Institution scholar who 
served as the coauthor of the President's review of our Afghanistan-
Pakistan strategy, said that the country--this is Pakistan--''has more 
terrorists per square mile than any other place on Earth, and it has a 
nuclear weapons program that has grown faster than anyplace else on 
Earth.'' It seems to me to walk away from that threat is the wrong 
course. This bill provides funds for nonmilitary aid and 
counterinsurgency training to enable the Pakistani Government to defeat 
the growing extremist threat within its borders.

Fourth, this bill provides funding to help our servicemembers and 
their families deal with the wounds of war and to improve their quality 
of life. It provides funding to increase the number of soldiers and 
marines to help ease some of the burdens on servicemembers and families 
who have served three, four, and five deployments to combat zones. How 
can we walk away from giving those soldiers relief at this point when 
they have served three, four, and five times? We see some of the 
fallout on the mental health of our soldiers. We have seen some tragic 
things happen, including a soldier who actually turned on his own 
colleagues and killed them. We cannot have servicemembers under this 
amount of stress from three, four, five, or six deployments. Some of 
them can handle it. Not all of them can handle it. This bill will 
increase the number of soldiers and marines, so we can help ease the 
burden of those who have given and given.

This bill includes funding to keep our servicemembers safer, 
including funding for mine-resistant vehicles in Afghanistan to combat 
the dangers of roadside bombs. It helps ease the childcare needs of our 
military families by funding the construction of 25 child development 
centers to serve 5,000 children. It provides $230 million to complete 
construction of the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, and 
it provides funds for the construction of nine warrior support 
facilities across the United States. Our soldiers need help. They 
cannot be expected to travel across the country to get medical care, 
either for physical wounds or mental wounds. We need to make sure we do 
this.

Finally, this bill provides funding for domestic programs that will 
safeguard our security. It includes $1.5 billion to prepare and respond 
to a global disease pandemic, such as the H1N1 influenza virus we are 
combating today. A lot of people say: Maybe you are overreacting. We 
just don't know because in other flu epidemics, we think we have 
conquered it, and then it comes back in a more virulent form. We need 
to vaccinate our citizenry. This is expensive and a must-do. I am very 
pleased it is in this bill. Just this week, two lives were lost in New 
York City to the virus. One victim was only an infant, and the other 
was an assistant principal of a school. Yes, we lose people to the flu 
every year. We know that. But we want to make sure we are not facing 
something for which we are unprepared. Better to be prepared, and this 
bill gives us the funds to prepare.

There is significant investment in shoring up our southwest border 
and also combating drug traffickers who operate there. We keep seeing 
horrific violence along the border. It is deplorable. The drug cartels 
must be stopped and the perpetrators brought to justice. That is also 
in this bill. This is an emergency spending bill.

It also includes $250 million for emergency firefighting activities. 
California has suffered devastating wildfires over the last few fire 
seasons. I know all of you have watched in horror at the recent 
wildfire in Santa Barbara. We know we are facing terrible challenges. 
We are facing warmer temperatures. We are facing more drought 
conditions. The funding will help ensure resources are on hand when 
they are needed.

I have to say that this bill should be a must-pass. I have to also 
reiterate that my vote indicates my support for a change in our foreign 
policy, a change in Iraq to bring this war to an end, a change to 
finally do what we have to do in Afghanistan so we do not walk out and 
walk away as we did before. The Taliban allowed al-Qaida to thrive, and 
we have to work in Afghanistan so that the people turn away from the 
Taliban toward something else that is positive. And we can provide 
that.

Strong diplomacy is in this bill. A change in policy is in this bill. 
It is our best opportunity to achieve these objectives. If it does not 
work, I will be the first one to stand up here and say so because, 
frankly, I believe too many of our brave soldiers have been put in 
harm's way.

I think this is the last use of a supplemental appropriation, 
according to the administration, to fund military operations in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. I welcome that. It says that our President is going to 
hold true to his commitment to an open and transparent government that 
is held accountable to the people. We are going to have these policies 
funded through the regular budget process. I understand why we need 
this now. To bring about the change in Iraq and Afghanistan, we cannot 
do it on the cheap. We have to do it right. I think President Obama's 
quote--and I am not quoting him exactly--was that we have to get out of 
there very carefully even though we did not get in there very 
carefully. That is what we are doing. We are getting out of Iraq 
carefully. We are doing it right. We are funding the way to do it 
right. We are helping our soldiers. And we are changing course in 
Afghanistan, first of all, by paying attention to it, going after al-
Qaida, trying to make sure the Taliban is not an option people choose 
there, and being very strong in our help toward the women of 
Afghanistan.

I will be voting yes for all those reasons and watching closely.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that for the next hour, this 
bill be open to debate only.