---
---

# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `a36a3660569f5955e954ccbe00e03e1c`
`Mr. BISHOP of Georgia — 2 April 2009`

---


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Chair, I want to say a few words in 
support of the Fiscal Year 2010 House Budget Resolution. This important 
legislation builds on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to 
create jobs and strengthen the American economy for the long-term. It 
also restores honesty and transparency to the congressional budget 
process and puts our nation on a clear path to recovery.

I want to especially commend House Budget Committee Chairman John 
Spratt, Office of Management and Budget Director Peter Orszag, and the 
leadership of the Blue Dog Coalition for their outstanding work in 
crafting this budget. As a Blue Dog, I am pleased that the budget 
incorporates many of the Coalition's principles--namely, commitments to 
statutory Pay-As-You-Go budget discipline, deficit neutral health care 
reform, eliminating $50 billion in waste and abuse in government 
spending, and cutting the deficit in half by Fiscal Year 2013.

Concerning the deficit, it is important to recall that America's 
fiscal house was in order when the Bush Administration took office 
eight years ago. There was a projected ten-year budget surplus of $5.6 
trillion. The nation would have had the resources then to pay down the 
national debt, protect Social Security for future generations, and 
accommodate tax relief for hardworking American families.

In a few short years, the surplus disappeared and the national debt 
mushroomed. Rather than a $5.6 trillion surplus, Congress is now 
confronting a record $1 trillion deficit in 2009 alone. In fact, the 
nation is facing deficits in 2009 and 2010 that would be greater as a 
share of the economy than in any year since World War II.

According to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, the current 
recession ''is compounding the underlying long-term fiscal pressures 
resulting from rapidly rising health care costs, the aging of the 
population, past tax cuts, and war costs. If we continue current 
policies . . . the nation is on a path to amass $10 trillion in 
cumulative deficits over the next decade, during which time the deficit 
will not fall below 5 percent of GDP.'' Both as a member of the Blue 
Dog Coalition and, more importantly, as an American citizen, it was 
troubling to see that our nation's commitment to fiscal discipline was 
being so recklessly squandered during these eight years.

This budget resolution finally puts America's budget house in order. 
In addition to ensuring budget discipline, it makes vital investments 
in a number of areas. The House Budget Resolution strengthens education 
by providing additional funding for new initiatives in early childhood 
education and raising the Pell Grant award. It includes provisions to 
reduce health care costs while improving access to quality medical 
care.

The House Budget Resolution also supports veterans by increasing 
Veterans' Affairs funding by 11%. Finally, it increases our investments 
in renewable energy and energy efficiency by 18% in 2010 to promote 
clean energy technologies, industries, and jobs.

The House budget makes many of these investments at a lower level of 
nondefense discretionary funding than President Obama's original 
request. I also am pleased that it includes tax relief for middle-
income taxpayers and small businesses, as well as an accurate 
accounting of the costs of our military operations in Iraq and 
Afghanistan.

This budget is good for Georgia and good for America. I am pleased to 
support it and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of its adoption.