# UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `a38191e8bd8d0f15c2953ea30356a313`
`Ms. PELOSI â€” 22 July 2010`

---


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank 
him for bringing this important legislation to the floor today. And 
indeed, there is some good news in it, but there is some not-so-good 
news in it as well.

I listened very attentively to the previous speaker talk about why 
these unemployment benefits had to be paid for, and I was struck by the 
inconsistency in his remarks and that of the Republicans in the United 
States Senate and in the House of Representatives. It's important to 
note that while they demand that these benefits be paid for--$34 
billion in unemployment benefits going to those who have played by the 
rules, worked hard, who are unemployed through no fault of their own, 
$34 billion, which injected into the economy will indeed create jobs--
while they have said that $700 billion of tax cuts for the wealthiest 
people in America shouldn't be paid for. ''Inconsistent'' is the 
politest word I can use to describe that.

Thirty-four billion dollars for those who have lost their jobs 
through no fault of their own.

Last week the Economic Policy Institute released a report making it 
clear that not only do unemployment benefits protect those who have 
lost their jobs through no fault of their own, but would lead to more 
jobs, higher wages, and a stronger economy for all Americans.

And why is that so? That is so because these benefits are given to 
people who need them. The money will be spent immediately on 
necessities injecting demand into the economy, creating jobs. In fact, 
the Economic Policy Institute figured that would be 1.4 million jobs 
relating to the unemployment benefits that are out there now.

The Congressional Budget Office which is independent and nonpartisan 
has confirmed that extending unemployment benefits is the most 
efficient way for the government to generate economic growth.



Now, I know why the gentleman may want to change the subject to other 
things. He mentions Katrina. We all supported Katrina. Did anybody talk 
about paying for that emergency? No. It was an emergency. We have a 
compact with the American people in the time of a natural disaster--
even though that disaster was exacerbated by cronyism in the Bush 
administration.

But let's not go there. Let's just stay on this subject. And the 
subject at hand is when this bill was introduced today, this 
resolution, I'm sure you all heard that it was an amendment to an 
amendment. Well, the Senate amendment that we are voting on, the 
amendment that they put in took out the jobs initiatives. And those 
initiatives were paid for. Build America Bonds. That was part of the 
original bill, to build the infrastructure of America, the highways and 
infrastructure of America in a new green way creating new green jobs 
and new green technologies. And the Build America jobs that went beyond 
those investments; FMAP to stabilize our State economies.

Thirty States have written their budgets already on the basis of this 
funding being in the legislation and paid for--not increasing the 
deficit. We passed it in December. The Senate only now is sending it 
back to us because the Republicans have objected to that, and the 
amendment to the amendment eliminates that stability for States.



Summer jobs, well, it's too late for summer jobs, so youth jobs. In 
December, we passed the bill for summer jobs for America's youth. The 
amendment to the amendment takes out those youths. And they were paid 
for, because on the one hand they say everything has to be paid for. 
Well, when it's paid for, then are they just plain opposed to summer 
jobs for youths? Are they opposed to Build America Bonds to grow our 
economy and meet the needs of our country infrastructurewise?

The Housing Trust Fund, very, very important initiative.

Concurrent receipt: I don't think there's any doubt that every person 
in this Congress supports our veterans. One issue that is a high 
priority for America's veterans when we meet with them on a regular 
basis is the issue of concurrent receipt. You may not be familiar with 
that term, but it's a disability tax on our veterans, and with so many 
veterans returning home with disabilities from Iraq and Afghanistan 
this is very, very important. It was in the bill. It was paid for. 
Again, money given to people who need it for necessities who would 
spend it, inject demand into the economy and create jobs. So the 
amendment to the amendment that the Senate Republicans would finally 
let pass in the Senate removed concurrent receipt, paid for, for our 
veterans.

The list goes on and on, a list of paid-for initiatives that benefit 
our veterans, grow our economy, create jobs, help our workers, help our 
young people, stabilize our States, all paid for. The Republican 
Senators said ''no,'' and they held up this particular amendment to the 
amendment for over 6 weeks because they said it had to be paid for.

At the very same time, they were saying we must pay for $34 billion 
for benefits for the unemployed but we don't have to pay for the $700 
billion for the wealthiest people in America to have tax cuts. Those 
same tax cuts, during the 8 years of the Bush administration, did not 
create jobs; they increased the deficit. And the Republicans have said 
they want to go back to the exact agenda of the Bush administration. 
They look with increased fondness on the Bush administration.

Well, let me say this here today. The good news about this is finally 
our unemployed will get their benefits. It will be retroactive. It's 
really sad that it has to come to this. Nonpaid-for tax cuts for the 
rich; paid-for benefits for our workers.

But it's important to note, contrary to what you might hear from some 
in this Chamber, that in the first 8 months of the Obama 
administration, more jobs were created--well, by the time we finish 
August, more jobs will have been created than in the 8 years of the 
Bush administration. While they increased the deficit by trillions of 
dollars, while we lost jobs, where they took us to a brink of financial 
crisis of our financial industry, where they took us deep into 
recession, where they took us deep into deficit, they want to return to 
the exact same agenda.

We are not going back and our step forward into the future, one step 
into the future is being taken today when we say to American workers, 
You have played by the rules. You have worked hard. You have lost your 
job through no fault of your own. You have these benefits, but we must 
do more to create jobs, to create more jobs.

I urge our colleagues today to understand how important this is, the 
distinction between those who support our workers. Respect the contract 
that we have with them so that when the economy ebbs and flows and the 
cycle of employment and unemployment is not in their favor, that we 
will be there for them. And being there for them is not just about 
them. It's also about the entire economy, the entire economy. The 
economy cannot flourish and be entrepreneurial unless it knows that 
there's a safety net in case the economy comes down.

The Republicans are saying ''no'' to that. They've said ''no'' over 
and over again, and they're saying ''no'' today unless it is paid for, 
again, while they still say, We want tax cuts for the wealthiest, $700 
billion worth, 20 times more than this bill for unemployment insurance.

But don't forget what they took out of the bill and don't forget that 
that includes concurrent receipt for our veterans.

I urge our colleagues to proudly vote for this legislation.

I commend my colleague Mr. Levin for his hard work on this and other 
legislation, and I know, because it's absolutely essential, that at 
some point we will get a jobs bill that will come back from the Senate. 
We agree that it should be paid for. We've sent it over to them paid 
for, and that they will recognize that we need to create jobs, good-
paying jobs that take us into the future and, most of all, that we're 
not going back to the failed economic policies of the Bush 
administration.

I urge a strong ''aye'' vote on both sides of the aisle.