---
---

# IRAQ
## `a3837ad477fce8d13da0535bf0921bf4`
`Mr. VITTER — 7 February 2007`

---


Mr. VITTER. Thank you, Madam President.

Madam President, clearly, without doubt, without question, the war in 
Iraq is the leading concern of the American people, as well it should 
be. It is a very difficult situation, and a situation that will define 
our future and our security for years to come. Because it is the 
dominant, the leading concern of the American people, without any close 
second, I think it is imperative we have a debate and votes on this 
crucial question.

I would urge the majority leader to come back to the floor and engage 
in this debate and move forward with this discussion and accept the 
very reasonable compromise of the minority leader in narrowing down all 
of the universe of ideas and resolutions to simply two.

I will freely admit that is not my first preference in terms of this 
debate. I had always heard before coming here 2 years ago that the 
Senate was about open debate, unlimited debate, the ability to get your 
ideas and your amendments and your resolutions to the floor with very 
few limits. So I thought, particularly in the context of this very 
serious situation in Iraq, we needed an open debate, we needed more 
ideas, not fewer, we needed every significant vote that should be 
taken.

So that was my preference: unlimited debate. But the majority leader 
rejected that, only would allow very limited votes, very limited 
debate. At the end of the day--again, it was not my first choice, but 
at the end of the day, the minority leader said: OK, you want two 
votes--only two votes--OK. Let's focus on two proposals. Let's have 
just two votes. But our choice for our one proposal will be the Gregg 
amendment because we feel so strongly about supporting our troops in 
the field. And then the majority leader said no, I can't accept that. I 
need to choose your proposal. I need to choose what you want to put up 
for a vote.


That is not the tradition of the Senate. And, more importantly, that 
is not treating this very serious issue, the dominant concern among all 
Americans, bar none, properly. We need to debate this issue now. We 
need to vote on this issue now. Again, I urge the majority leader to 
come back to the floor and engage in this debate this week--now--
because the country is concerned now about Iraq. The country has 
questions, understandably, now about the President's plan. And our 
troops in the field have questions and uncertainty now about whether we 
will be standing shoulder to shoulder with them no matter what policy 
is adopted.

Again, I think the minority leader's proposal yesterday bent over 
backwards--compromise and compromise and compromise--to reach an 
ability to have this debate we must have on the floor of the Senate. We 
wanted far more than two proposals debated. We wanted far more than two 
votes. But we accepted the majority leader's number. We accepted the 
majority leader's parameters of just two proposals, just two votes. But 
surely the minority gets to choose one of those two proposals to 
discuss, particularly given that this Gregg proposal has broad 
bipartisan support.

So let's have this Iraq debate that we must have. Let's have key 
votes that we must have. And let's do it now. I urge the majority 
leader, again, not to give up, not to reject this very reasonable 
compromise, bending over backwards by the minority leader to agree to 
his number of two. Let's take that up. Let's have this debate. Let's 
have crucial votes. The American people deserve that, given the very 
tough situation in Iraq. And our men and women in uniform sure as heck 
deserve that. They sure as heck deserve to hear from us: OK, we know 
some of you are for the President's surge plan; we know some of you are 
against it. But what about supporting whatever troops are put in the 
field? They sure as heck deserve an answer to that question. And they 
certainly deserve that reassurance.

Let's have that fair debate, and let's have it now.

Madam President, I yield the floor.