# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a38e8ec1a4873281101ab1ca82ebc664`
`Mr. NUNES — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this 
intellectually dishonest resolution. I do so in order to challenge the 
majority party to put their legislating where their mouths have been. 
The endless criticism to the war in Iraq is clouded by political 
opportunism and has done little or nothing to improve our chances of 
victory.

We need an honest debate. We need answers from those who support this 
resolution. What is next? What is your plan? It should come as no 
surprise that the resolution we are debating today says very little. 
There are less than 100 words. And while the rhetoric has been flying 
during the debate, it seems to me that the new Democratic majority is 
hoping to avoid debate in which they might have to defend their plan in 
Iraq.

What we have here is nothing more than a political exercise, a 
nonbinding resolution, words with no meaning. Make no mistake, their 
opposition to the President's plan is political. There is no 
constructive criticism here. Read their resolution.

Iraq is the battleground, Madam Speaker, a key battleground against 
extremism, terrorism and the expansionist goals of our enemies.



If we fail, Iraq will be a hotbed of radical Islamic activity, a 
pivotal safe haven, a base from which to plan and fund attacks against 
us.

Madam Speaker, how is the danger associated with defeat in Iraq not 
clear? I ask my colleagues, what evidence do you need? Have you 
listened to the words of our enemies? Must we have more casualties in 
American cities before you accept the nature of this global threat? How 
quickly we forget, Madam Speaker.

I urge my colleagues to listen carefully to the words of Osama bin 
Laden. Last year, bin Laden said, ''Iraq is the focal point of the war 
on terror. The most important and serious issue today for the whole 
world is this Third World War. It is raging in Iraq. The world's 
millstone and pillar is in Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.'' 
Another one, ''Jihad against America will continue. Jihad against 
America will continue economically and militarily. By the grace of 
Allah, America is in retreat. But more attacks are required.''

Madam Speaker, Osama bin Laden, as well as other Islamic extremists 
around the world, view the conflict in Iraq as the central battleground 
in their ideological struggle.

Make no mistake, we are at war, and it is about time that some of our 
members of our government figured it out.

Someday soon, the Representatives who are supporting this resolution 
will have to explain to the voters what they have done to make us safer 
at home and abroad. Since this resolution does nothing more than 
embolden our enemies, demoralize our troops, and send mixed messages to 
our allies, they will have a difficult task before them.

Today, unfortunately, we won't hear much about the Democrat plan for 
Iraq. We will, instead, hear a lot about failure and defeat. We might 
even hear a conspiracy theory or two. And, of course, we will hear a 
lot of political posturing.

But Madam Speaker, the American people deserve to know the truth. 
What happens next, Madam Speaker, to those who believe the President is 
wrong, to those who believe we rushed to war, to those who can't get 
beyond our national intelligence failures and, instead, persist on 
conspiracy theories? Tell us, what is next? What is your plan to 
protect the American people?

Madam Speaker, I demand answers from the authors of this resolution. 
The American people have a right to know. Is your plan to simply stand 
aside and allow an ideology of hate to consume the Middle East?

I implore my colleagues, if you won't heed the warnings of our 
military and intelligence organizations, listen to al Qaeda's own 
words. They are speaking directly to you.

This is from Deputy leader al-Zawahiri recently. ''I wish to talk to 
the Democrats in America. You aren't the ones who won the midterm 
elections, nor are the Republicans the ones who lost; rather, the 
Mujahadin are the ones who won and the American forces and their allies 
lost.''

I ask my colleagues, how can you offer this resolution, knowing the 
enemy we face? Do you really have nothing to offer the American people 
but this? Is this resolution the best effort of the new Democrat 
majority in response to our challenge in Iraq?

Madam Speaker, we should have an honest debate about Iraq. And my 
friends who are convinced that the war is wrong need to be accountable 
for failing to say what is right.

In closing, I want to say how proud I am of the men and women who are 
fighting for our freedom and security all over the world. They don't 
deserve what we are doing to them today. This resolution is a sham. It 
is nothing more than political grandstanding, and it is feeding the 
propaganda machine of our enemy.

I have been to Iraq. I have seen the efforts of our soldiers 
firsthand. They want to win. They have seen the face of the enemy and I 
can assure you they are committed to winning. If you are committed to 
winning, vote ''no'' on this resolution