---
---

# TRIBUTE TO THE LATE STAFF SERGEANT JOSHUA R. HAGER
## `a3963367d3d9a0a393667aa45d94f00f`
`Mr. SALAZAR — 1 March 2007`

---


Mr. SALAZAR. Madam Speaker, I ask for unanimous consent to address 
the House for one minute and to revise and extend my remarks.

I stand here today to pay tribute and recognize the loss of SSG 
Joshua R. Hager. Staff Sergeant Hager was killed in action while 
serving his country in Iraq.

Every day, the men and women of the United States Armed Forces face 
danger in the hope to bring peace and prosperity to those in need. We 
must not forget the individual stories of these soldiers who are 
serving our country with courage and honor.

Joshua Hager was from Bloomfield, Colorado and he is survived by his 
wife and child who reside in Pueblo, Colorado.

Staff Sergeant Hager was one of three Fort Carson soldiers who died 
on Friday, February 23. Hager, PVT Travis Buford of Galveston, Texas, 
and PVT Rowan Walter of Winnetka, California, died Friday of injuries 
suffered a day earlier when an improvised explosive device detonated 
near their vehicle.

All three brave men were assigned to the 1st Battalion, 9th Infantry 
Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division, based at Fort 
Carson, which has now lost 189 soldiers since the war in Iraq began.

Joshua Hager was 29 years old.

My heart goes out to Joshua's wife and child as well as all of his 
family and friends. Their courage in this time of hardship humbles us 
all.

We will not forget his sacrifice, and that of the soldiers who rode 
alongside Joshua.

I submit this recognition to the United States House of 
Representatives in honor of their sacrifice, so that Joshua Hager may 
live on in memory.

