# WAR IS UGLY BUT TYRANNY IS UGLIER
## `a39cfe893a1b672fd92e369b36ebb448`
`Mr. WAMP — 6 June 2007`

---


Mr. WAMP. I thank the gentleman.

We all desire a better course in Iraq. We all desire changes, not 
just General Petraeus' leadership and the increase in security forces 
from our country necessary to prevail in Iraq, but even more regional 
cooperation, and some of the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group so 
that people in this country will truly recognize, especially in the 
Congress, that this is not our President's war. This is our country's 
war. This is our country's fight.

Now a very prominent person from my State wrote a book called ''The 
Inconvenient Truth.'' He wrote it about the environment, but I have to 
say tonight on the floor of the House that a bigger inconvenient truth 
than the one he wrote about is the inconvenient truth that is lost 
around here a lot, that over half of the Democratic Members of the 
United States Senate and almost half of the United States House of 
Representatives voted to remove Saddam Hussein by force. Now, many 
people are running from that commitment and decision, but it is an 
inconvenient truth that they said it needed to be done and they 
committed us to doing it. And we went as a nation and there was not 
that much criticism as there is now, but it is convenient to blame or 
cast aspersions or to say that intelligence went wrong instead of 
accepting the responsibility that we removed a genocidal mass murderer 
from the world stage in an important time in the history of the Middle 
East and an important time in the history of the world.

I have two pages, and I am not going to go through these quotes like 
I did the time line, but two pages of quotes from the most prominent 
leaders in the Democratic Party in this country saying why Saddam 
Hussein had to be removed by force.

The quotes I will go through tonight, though, are from the terrorists 
themselves because I think they must be quoted so we understand what 
they are doing.

Zawahiri, al Qaeda's top leader in the region now, we don't know 
where Osama bin Laden is, but Zawahiri said, ''The jihad movement is 
growing and rising. It reached its peak with the two blessed raids on 
New York and Washington. And now it is waging a great heroic battle in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, and even the crusaders' own homes.''

Al Manar said, ''Let the entire world hear me. Our hostility to the 
Great Satan, America, is absolute. Regardless of how the world has 
changed after September 11, death to America will remain our 
reverberating and powerful slogan: Death to America.''

Zarqawi said, ''They are aware that if this Islamic giant wakes up, 
it will not be satisfied with less than the gates of Rome, Washington, 
Paris, and London.''

Bin Laden's top lieutenant said, ''The fire has not and will not be 
put out, and our swords, which have been colored with your blood, are 
thirsty for more of your rotting heads.''

The leader of Hezbollah said, ''We have discovered how to hit the 
Jews where they are most vulnerable. The Jews love life; so that is 
what we shall take from them. We are going to win because they love 
life and we love death.''

Zawahiri said, ''Knights under the prophet's banner, al Qaeda's most 
important short-term strategic goal is to seize control of the state, 
or part of a state, somewhere in the Muslim world.'' He wrote, 
''Confronting the enemies of Islam and launching jihad against them 
require a Muslim authority established on Muslim land. Without 
achieving this, our actions will mean nothing.''

Osama bin Laden said, ''The whole world is watching this war and the 
two adversaries. It is either victory and glory or misery and 
humiliation.''

Osama bin Laden has said, ''The most important and serious issue 
today for the world is this Third World War.'' That's what he said. 
''It is raging in the land of the two rivers, Iraq. The world's 
millstone and pillar is in Baghdad, the capital of the caliphate.''

These are the words of jihad.

Before yielding to the gentlewoman from North Carolina, I would like 
to encourage people to open a book called ''America Alone'' by Mark 
Steyn. The gentlewoman has just finished the book. It is on our reading 
list as we are trying to educate Members of the House on the threats. 
We all know you can't believe everything you read. But if you do your 
homework and you follow people who do their research, reading is the 
best way to understand this threat.

Let me say first, I am for pluralism. Every religious view is 
welcomed in this country, period. We are tolerant. It is a tenet of our 
foundation, religious pluralism is the American way. We do not believe 
in theocracy. It doesn't come with freedom, not our way. But let me say 
tonight, and this may not be popular in some quarters, that is not the 
Muslim way today. It is not.

The Islamists, the radicals, are insulated within Islam and they are 
not being challenged by the rest of Islam. And they call for a global 
sharia. That is Islamic rule. There were challenges all around the 
world right now about whether Islamic law, their law, a theocratic 
system, trumps the laws of any country, including this country. And if 
you don't think this is infiltrating most of the countries around the 
world, you are not paying any attention. This threat is growing and 
rising.

All you have to do is study the demographics that are articulated in 
this book and you realize that countries like our and Japan and Russia, 
they are actually declining in population. Our country is barely 
growing. The most rapid growth in the world is among the Muslim 
countries. Sheer demographics overtake us if the radicals continue to 
be insulated within Islam and not challenged because the numbers are 
exponential in terms of how many people are now willing to kill 
themselves for a cause. I could spend the rest of the night going 
through the latest statistics which ought to shock every American, that 
26 or 30 percent, depending on two different questions, of Muslims in 
this country, many of whom are citizens, believe it is acceptable, this 
is scientific polling 2 weeks ago, it is acceptable to blow yourself up 
for a cause. That's a problem. I have to tell you, that is not 
acceptable in this country.

It is not acceptable that jihadism is fashionable or a way of life. 
How many people in the Muslim world now think that 9/11 was justified. 
I have to tell you, America is not perfect, we have made mistakes; but 
anybody in the world who apologizes for our country is wrong.

And these apologists who somehow blame us for what happened are 
wrong. Many others are here to speak. I yield to the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx).