---
---

# ENERGY
## `a3b68c02d41e06006960f82197dcdad8`
`Mr. BENNETT — 12 June 2007`

---


Mr. BENNETT. I listened with interest to the Senator from Texas. I 
wish to discuss basically the same thing, perhaps putting a slightly 
different twist on it. People look at the economics of energy and make 
this point. They say it costs something like a dollar a barrel to lift 
the oil in Saudi Arabia. That is the elevating price, a dollar, a 
dollar and a half, whatever. It doesn't sound like very much when oil 
is selling for something like $60 a barrel.

They look at the difference between the lifting cost and what we are 
paying, and then they look at the difference between the cost for a 
barrel of oil and the cost of a gallon of gasoline and they say: 
Somebody is making an awful lot of money here, and there has to be 
something wrong. There has to be someone hiding in the weeds who is 
profiteering off us. If we can find that ''someone'' and stop him from 
doing the profiteering, then everything would be fine, we would have 
plenty of oil, we would have lower prices at the pump, everything would 
be fine. There is a conspiracy going on. There is somebody somewhere 
who needs to be discovered, exposed, and attacked, and then everything 
will be fine.

Well, unfortunately, the real world does not operate like that. In 
the real world, there are reasons, valid reasons, for prices to be 
where they are and for the situation to be as it is. The fundamental 
fact, with respect to retail prices, that people forget, if indeed they 
even know, is this: The retail price is not set on the basis of what it 
costs to put a gallon of gas into the pump that you go to when you fill 
up your tank; the retail price is set by


what it would cost to replace the gallon of gas once it is gone out of 
the tank and into your gas tank.

That means whoever is setting the price is concerned with 
uncertainties that are there in the marketplace that will determine the 
future replacement cost. If there is a geopolitical uncertainty, Iran, 
Iraq, unrest in Saudi Arabia, instability in Venezuela, whatever it 
might be, the marketplace will say: We have to have the uncertainty 
return, we have to have a premium on what it would cost to protect us 
against the uncertainty because it may well be that supply is suddenly 
disrupted around the world, and if we are going to have an additional 
gallon of gas in that service station tank in the future, we are going 
to have to pay for that uncertainty there, so we will charge an 
uncertainty premium now.

This is the working of the marketplace. As I have said often, and 
expect to say again, we cannot repeal the law of supply and demand. We 
think we can. In Congress we keep passing laws that say we are going to 
set prices here and there. But whenever we try, all we do is produce 
one of two results. When we try to repeal the law of supply and demand, 
when we try to interfere with market forces, we either create a 
shortage or a surplus.

When we set the price artificially too high in the market, we create 
a surplus, as everybody wants to get in on the very good price, people 
want to sell for the highest price. We did that in Congress with 
respect to silver. We wanted to have silver mined in the United States. 
So the United States said: We are going to pay so much for silver. It 
was above the price the market would pay. We opened up silver mines, 
the Government ended up with a huge surplus of silver piling up in 
warehouses because we set the price higher than the market would put 
it.

When we set the price too low, as we have done with gasoline, with 
oil windfall profits, set the price too low, then we get a shortage; 
nobody wants to produce for that low price. So we can tell ourselves 
how wonderful we are. We can say we have the power to set prices by 
legislation, but if we set them in the wrong places, if we go away from 
where the market is, the market either gives you a surplus of things we 
don't need or we create a shortage.

We saw the impact of the shortage during the Carter administration. 
We all remember the long lines, where we were lined up to get gasoline. 
There was a shortage. It was artificially created. When Ronald Reagan 
became President, he said: No, we are going to let the market work. The 
shortages all went away. The lines went away. Interestingly enough, the 
prices actually came down in many areas of energy as the market then 
responded to the reality of demand.

Our problem now is we do not have sufficient supply to bring the 
prices down. One of the reasons, as the Senator from Texas made clear, 
one of the reasons is we do not have the refinery capacity we need. It 
is all very well and good to pump oil out of the ground, but the oil 
you purchase out of the ground cannot be put into your car. The oil 
pumped out of the ground has to be refined into gasoline. If it is not, 
it sits there accumulating until the refinery capacity can be brought 
on line.


We know that very well in Utah. We have a tremendous amount of 
production going on in eastern Utah now. As oil is available, it can 
come out of the ground. At the worldwide prices for oil now, even 
though it might be more expensive than $1.50, with oil selling at $60 a 
barrel, $70 a barrel on the international market, there is money to be 
made. There is oil to be produced in eastern Utah, but it is sitting 
there. It is not ending up in anybody's gas tank. It is not helping 
bring down the price at the pump. What is the matter? We don't have the 
refinery capacity to refine that particular kind of oil. There are 
refineries in Salt Lake City. They are operating at 90 percent capacity 
plus. They are refining oil that comes from Canada, because that 
particular kind of oil is easier to refine than the oil coming out of 
eastern Utah. If we could build a refinery in eastern Utah--and the 
economics are there to justify it--we could bring down the price of 
gasoline at the pump, because all of that oil would be turned into 
gasoline.

So why aren't we building new refineries? The regulations that come 
from the Federal Government are restricting refineries. People who own 
refineries are doing everything they can to expand them. The refinery 
capacity is up fairly dramatically, but the number of new refineries 
has not gone up dramatically. We are pushing to have the limit our 
ability to refine oil in the refineries we now have.

We are still told the real reason prices are up is because there is a 
conspiracy. There is price gouging going on. Last week the Washington 
Post commented on this issue about conspiracy and the people who are 
deliberately driving up the price of gasoline. If I may quote from the 
Washington Post editorial entitled ''Myths About That $3.18 Per 
Gallon'':




 Multiple investigations by the Federal Trade Commission 


 since 2000 have come up, well, dry. Conspiracy theorists say 


 this lack of evidence is proof that the regulators are in bed 


 with the oil companies. But last year, California's Energy 


 Commission undertook its own investigation of a May 2006 


 price increase--and found no smoking gun indicating market 


 manipulation. Today's high prices are the result of a 


 collision among consumers' increasing demand for gas, the 


 shortage of oil-refining capacity and 50 states with 


 different regulations that make it hard to trade gas across 


 state lines.


That is the reality. It is a collision of increasing demand for gas, 
static oil refining capacity, and different State regulations. We 
should be dealing with that reality. Why aren't we? Back to the 
editorial:




 So why protect consumers from this vaporous phantom? 


 Politics. More than 80 percent of Americans believe that high 


 gas prices are the result of oil company shenanigans rather 


 than market forces, according to the Opinion Research Corp. 


 So passing legislation against gouging is a bit of theater 


 that allows the political class to avoid the hard work of 


 getting Americans to use less gas.


We engage in political theater all the time around here--that is our 
business--but occasionally, I would hope we would recognize reality, we 
would understand the price of gasoline is set by market forces that 
look at what it will cost to replace that gasoline.

I will make a last point. There would be more certainty about what it 
would cost to replace that gasoline if President Clinton had not vetoed 
legislation opening ANWR, making that oil available to us for our 
domestic supply. One of the things that was said at the time was, that 
is so far away in the future, that is 10 years away.

Well, it has been more than 10 years since he vetoed that bill. If he 
had not, we would now have the supply coming down from Alaska, saying 
we can mitigate the geopolitical uncertainties of oil in foreign 
countries by having this supply of millions of barrels available in the 
United States. The manufacturers of gasoline, refiners of gasoline, 
would say: We have a stable source of supply here within the United 
States. We need not charge as high an uncertainty premium as we might 
otherwise do.

There is no question it would have a significant impact on lowering 
gas prices, if only we had done it. The Congress did it. The President 
vetoed it. Now the leadership of Congress continues to oppose ANWR. One 
of the arguments is: That is more than 10 years away.

We did it more than 10 years ago. We need to do it now for the 
advantage of people 10 years ahead.

This is not to denigrate the good things in the Energy bill before 
us. This is not to say conservation is not important. This is not to 
say alternative sources of energy are not important. But this is to say 
we need to look at the whole picture and recognize we cannot conserve 
our way into a solution. Just because conservation is a good idea 
doesn't mean increasing the source of supply is a bad one.

I yield the floor.