# DEMOCRATIC BLUE DOG COALITION
## `a3bbfd9cc39434f2a806381693b5e45f`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia — 22 May 2007`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Thank you, Mr. Ross. It is a pleasure, as 
always, to be on the floor with you and my fellow Blue Dogs.

I want to talk about two issues here that relate. One, of course, is 
the debt, the deficit that we have; the lack of accountability, 
financial accountability. But I would like to talk about it from the 
standpoint of what is really on the minds of the American people today, 
and that is the situation that faces us in Iraq and what we desperately 
need to do.

We need to do two things: One is be honest with the American people; 
and, two, be honest with the money that the American people send up 
here for us to apportion. Nowhere is that more significant than with 
military affairs.

As I stand here, Mr. Ross, I am trying to think of the best 
illustration I can come up with that would kind of paint a picture for 
where we are. I think if we look back in history, a certain event took 
place around 1952 when we were in a similar position of debating this 
issue of who has control of military affairs or how do we deal with the 
issues in time of war. Is it the executive branch, or is it the 
Congress, and what is the role therein?

This debate is heated on those two things today. The President says 
Congress has no role in this. Congress says we definitely do. And we 
are right that we do.



It was borne out in a case in 1952 when there was a decision made by 
the Supreme Court when this issue came up on who had the right to 
determine whether the steel mills would be seized during a time of war, 
during the Korean War.

And it got so hot and heavy in that debate it went to the courts. Is 
it the Congress or is it the President? Well, the Supreme Court ruled 
on that which brings us to a point here today. But in the concurrence 
that was written by Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson, he said some 
very important, significant and prophetic words.

He said that this is a case that clearly fits within the realm of 
Congress's responsibility in a time of war. And in his concurrence he 
said that when the executive branch operates in tandem with the 
congressional branch, with congressional authority, he said that is a 
time of maximum power for the President. He said, but when the 
President acts counter to the express constitutional authority of the 
Congress,


he said, we enter into what he referred to then as a zone of twilight, 
or in essence a twilight zone which, quite ironically, is where Rod 
Sterling got the name for his television program ''The Twilight Zone.''

That is where we find ourselves here, in the twilight zone.

He went on to say, when we enter this twilight zone, the Presidency 
in at its lowest ebb when it does not recognize the authority of the 
Congress.

Our authority rests with the purse. Our authority rests with making 
sure that we raise and support the military. Our authority rests with 
legislation. And when you wrap those two things together, that is what 
is the embodiment of what we have captured in our resolution for 
financial responsibility and accountability in a time of war to make 
sure that the money is accounted for; to make sure when our troops are 
going into war, that they have the money for the armor.

That is exactly why when they were sent into war by this President 
and this administration without the body armor, we had to amend the 
appropriations bill with over $200 million to get it in there, led by 
Democrats, led by Blue Dog Democrats, if you recall, to get the money 
in the budget for that.

The reason that happened is, up until January, this President has had 
the luxury of a rollover Congress that did exactly what he wanted them 
to do without even a whimper or a bang. They just rolled over, gave the 
President everything that he wanted, and we did not do the 
constitutional function of oversight, of making sure that there is 
financial accountability and responsibility in the actions that we are 
giving.

That is why it is important what we do today. Now this is 
incorporated into our presentation, into each of the bills that we have 
put forward. The status is now that these efforts are being worked 
between the House and the Senate. But I think it is very important for 
the public to also know that in this bill we have the accountability 
features in. But we also have the responsibility where we are not going 
to cut off any funds as long as our troops are in danger on the 
battlefield.

It is our hope, however, that we will be responsive to the American 
people and bring this matter to a close in terms of the loss of life of 
our soldiers that are caught in the cross hairs of a civil war.

Now, the Middle East is a region of vital interest, and there is 
absolutely no way we will ever be able to completely disappear from the 
Middle East, nor is that our intent. Nor is it the intent of the 
American people.

The point is our nose has been poked into a civil war, a civil war 
that has been festering for thousands of years between the Sunnis and 
the Shiites. That is their civil war. It is not right to have our 
soldiers in the middle of that. That needs to be brought back and we 
need to enter into a more reasonable support of containment and 
redeployment of our troops, and in a manner that pays attention to the 
wear and tear on our military.

Mr. Ross, it is shameful when we have to say that so many of our 
troops are over there for the third or fourth time. That is not right. 
The American people are against that. It is my hope that we will bring 
financial accountability and responsibility to this matter. The 
American people, who are very much engaged with us on this Iraq 
situation, are looking to Democrats; and quite honestly, they are 
looking to Blue Dog Democrats. They are looking to people who have 
fiscal responsibility and also understand that we know we are in a 
dangerous world.

The most important thing we need for our advancement right now is to 
make sure we have a strong defense and we have got that, but we also 
want our policies to be responsive to the American people. That is what 
the Democrats are putting forward as we move forward on our way out of 
this terrible civil war that our Nation finds itself in. We are going 
to do exactly that.

Mr. Ross, it is a pleasure to be here, and I am sure the American 
people fully support our efforts and understand exactly what we are 
talking about when we say it is time to bring financial accountability 
and transparency to our efforts here on Capitol Hill, and nowhere is 
that more important than dealing with our military affairs and the men 
and women serving in harm's way overseas.