---
---

# THE ECONOMY
## `a3c5ed9fec6d102047a169456ff02c04`
`Mr. HODES — 2 April 2008`

---


Mr. HODES. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

I'm glad to be here tonight. I will soon be joined by a number of my 
colleagues in the historic class of 2006, the Majority Makers. And we 
are here tonight to talk about the economy.

There certainly is a lot to talk about. We've come back recently from 
2 weeks at home in our districts where we've all made observations and 
talked to our constituents, talked to the people we represent. We've 
gotten out and visited people in their homes. We've been out shopping, 
we've been to the malls, we've been all over and hearing the way the 
sorry state of the economy is having an effect on middle-class families 
and working-class families, and things are not right.

Hard times are here, and unfortunately, those hard times may be with 
us for a while. Some have been seeing this coming, and I would like to 
say that certainly my Democratic colleagues, including people I serve 
with on the Financial Services Committee, have been seeing this coming 
for quite a while. We have been working on it, talking about it, 
passing legislation to deal with these issues.

Others have come a little bit late to the table and are just 
beginning to see that middle-class families in this country are facing 
rising costs, difficult times. We've had a feed-the-rich policy and a 
squeeze-the-middle class, and it's time that we did something about it.

I recall that about a year ago, maybe a little more than a year ago, 
when I had just joined the Financial Services Committee, I had the 
opportunity to talk to the Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben Bernanke. He 
came before our committee and testified about the state of the economy. 
Now this was before we'd seen the mortgage crisis and the credit crunch 
and the bailout for Bear Stearns and all of the other things that are 
now making headlines in what are fairly arcane policy matters but now 
take up the front pages of our newspapers.

And we asked Mr. Bernanke about the state of the economy and what he 
saw then, and it was very interesting. At the time, he was reporting 
that corporate profits were in good shape, that corporate productivity 
was in good shape. In other words, that corporate productivity was on 
the rise. Corporate profits seemed to be okay. It meant that people who 
were working were working a lot harder and helping the corporations 
earn profits, and their productivity was good.

But we saw troubling signs. Back then, we saw that real wages in 
income for middle-class families were stagnant or had been slipping 
backwards in real dollar terms. We saw that we had had a record trade 
deficit, $758 billion. We've seen tax cuts for 7 years under this 
administration which mostly benefited the very wealthy. In fact, last 
year, the 500 top wage earners in this country


earned about $18.8 billion and paid about 17 percent of their income in 
wages. That's not what they were supposed to pay, apparently, according 
to the tax rates, but that's what they've ended up paying. They're 
doing pretty well.

So while middle-class families were experiencing slippage in their 
real wages and income going backwards and facing ever-increasing costs, 
we had gasoline prices rising, home heating oil was about to start 
zooming up that winter, costs for education were going up. We asked Mr. 
Bernanke whether or not the increase in corporate profits and the 
higher rates of corporate productivity necessarily were the best 
indicators of the health of the economy. Because we also pointed out at 
the time there was a troubling issue on the horizon, and the issue was 
that there had been many loans made to people over the past few years, 
let's call them subprime loans, which meant loans that were given to 
people with rates that started out being very good but then kind of 
rose precipitously and that we saw a problem with these subprime 
mortgages which may not have been given with the right kinds of 
appraisals which had been given to people who couldn't pay them back, 
whose incomes weren't sufficient to own homes, whose assets weren't 
sufficient, for whom there were no requirements to put money down like 
there used to be in the old days.

We took all of this in, and many of us had just come to Congress. We 
asked Mr. Bernanke whether or not that was a true measure of the health 
of our economy. And I do have to report that Mr. Bernanke is an expert 
economist and a very smart man who runs the Federal Reserve. He's the 
chairman, and his job, along with the other members of the Federal 
Reserve board, is to help control the money supply, among other things, 
in this country. It's like turning on the spigot for money that flows 
into the economy and helps make more credit available and deals with 
interest rates, and they deal with whether or not to cut interest rates 
or raise interest rates which then affect consumers who want to borrow 
money for mortgages on their houses or second equity lines, as many 
people have, also, on their houses or credit cards or to buy a car. So 
that credit and the flow of money, in large part, is controlled by the 
Federal Reserve.

His answer was he thought things were in pretty good shape.

Well, unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, today, the chickens have come home 
to roost on 8 years of this administration's fiscal policies. I just 
pulled this off of the AOL service before I came down here to speak 
about these matters, and today, for the first time, Federal Reserve 
Chairman Ben Bernanke acknowledged that the U.S. could reel into a 
recession from the powerful punches of housing, credit, and financial 
crises. Yet, he didn't have much to say at this time about what the 
Federal Reserve is going to do next.

I have to tell you, after a couple of weeks at home, Mr. Bernanke 
doesn't have to tell us that we are in a financial crisis. There are 
neighborhoods in some of the cities in New Hampshire where you go on a 
street and we are seeing four and five houses foreclosed. We are seeing 
the ''bank owned'' signs. And what that means is there is nothing worse 
to a family than losing a home. And what happens when a family loses 
its home is not only are they in peril, are they in distress, but whole 
neighborhoods are in distress. Because when homes are foreclosed in a 
neighborhood, it puts pressure on the housing prices in the 
neighborhood, it puts pressure on the other financial indicators in the 
whole community. So there is a huge ripple effect from what has turned 
into a housing problem.


At home in New Hampshire we are seeing it. In fact, by the end of 
2009, Mr. Speaker, we anticipate seeing more than 4,900 foreclosures in 
the small State of New Hampshire alone. That's a huge rise. In some 
places we are seeing a hundred percent foreclosures. We've seen mill 
closings up north. We are seeing the job market beginning to soften in 
New Hampshire and around the country. Things are getting tough.

Rising costs, credit problems, home mortgage foreclosure crises, the 
war in Iraq goes on at the rate of $12 billion a month. Nobody has to 
tell the middle-class families of this country who have been squeezed 
by 8 years of this administration's policies that we are having hard 
times.

So tonight we are going to talk about what those hard times are, how 
we got there, and what we are doing in Congress, what my colleagues are 
doing, what we are trying to do here, especially on the Democratic 
side, to deal with these crises, and how we got here; and we are going 
to hear about what is going on in some of the other parts of the 
country as well.

I'm joined tonight by my other colleagues, as I said, from the 
Majority Makers, the class of 2006, Mr. Speaker, of which you are a 
part, which we are very proud of.

And I would like to introduce now and turn it over to my 
distinguished colleague from the State of Florida, the Sunshine State, 
where things are, frankly, much warmer than they are back home for me 
in New Hampshire where there is still snow on the ground and people are 
still digging out from a record snowfall.

So I will turn it over now to my distinguished colleague from Florida 
(Mr. Klein).