# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a3e13d2b07f1454c04ddda0b12de9162`
`Ms. ESHOO — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding to me, 
the distinguished chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.

Madam Speaker, it has been a long and painful 4-year journey for the 
people of our country since this administration acted preemptively and 
unilaterally to invade and occupy Iraq, policies which I believe then 
and I still believe today would not and could not stand because they 
simply are not in our national character.

We were told Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. None 
were found.

We were told there was yellow cake. It was a falsehood.

We were told that there were trailers containing the evidence of 
deadly chemicals.

We were told the mission was accomplished.

We endured national and international shame when the horrific 
pictures depicting Abu Ghraib appeared.

We learned that our troops were not sufficiently equipped.

We mourned with our constituents as the death toll of American troops 
mounted and continued to mount. Just think, 137 casualties in November 
of 2004, then the deadliest month overall. Today, over 3,000 precious 
U.S. lives have been lost, with thousands maimed and injured and God 
knows how many innocent Iraqi lives lost.

We witnessed the world community's total support on 9/11, and we have 
witnessed the diminishment of America's credibility around the world 
because of the Iraq war.

We have heard the President and the Vice President talk about victory 
and insurgency in its last throes.

We have learned of manipulated intelligence and endured a no-
oversight Congress.

Preemptive war, unilateralism, invasion, occupation, no post-war 
plan, an insurgency born of our blunders, and arrogance instead of 
reality.

Meanwhile, military experts, Generals Abizaid, Odom, Powell, and 
distinguished civilian leaders have called for change, a new strategy, 
and the urgency of diplomatic and political engagement, all to no 
avail.

One of the central findings of the recent NIE, the National 
Intelligence Estimate, highlighted the lack of effective Iraqi 
leadership as a main component driving sectarian and communal violence.

The bipartisan Iraq Study Group, appointed by the President, reported 
the utter urgency of action by the administration.

Retired General William Odom, former director of the National 
Security Agency under President Reagan and member of the National 
Security Council under President Carter, wrote an op-ed in the 
Washington Post on February 11.

I would ask that it be made part of the Record








 [From the Washington Post, Feb. 11, 2007]













Victory Is Not an Option




The Mission Can't Be Accomplished--It's Time for a New Strategy














(By William E. Odom)




 The new National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq starkly 


 delineates the gulf that separates President Bush's illusions 


 from the realities of the war. Victory, as the president sees 


 it, requires a stable liberal democracy in Iraq that is pro-


 American. The NIE describes a war that has no chance of 


 producing that result. In this critical respect, the NIE, the 


 consensus judgment of all the U.S. intelligence agencies, is 


 a declaration of defeat.



 Its gloomy implications--hedged, as intelligence agencies 


 prefer, in rubbery language that cannot soften its impact--


 put the intelligence community and the American public on the 


 same page. The public awakened to the reality of failure in 


 Iraq last year and turned the Republicans out of control of 


 Congress to wake it up. But a majority of its members are 


 still asleep, or only half-awake to their new writ to end the 


 war soon.



 Perhaps this is not surprising. Americans do not warm to 


 defeat or failure, and our politicians are famously reluctant 


 to admit their own responsibility for anything resembling 


 those un-American outcomes. So they beat around the bush, 


 wringing hands and debating ''nonbinding resolutions'' that 


 oppose the president's plan to increase the number of U.S. 


 troops in Iraq.



 For the moment, the collision of the public's clarity of 


 mind, the president's relentless pursuit of defeat and 


 Congress's anxiety has paralyzed us. We may be doomed to two 


 more years of chasing the mirage of democracy in Iraq and 


 possibly widening the war to Iran. But this is not 


 inevitable. A Congress, or a president, prepared to quit the 


 game of ''who gets the blame'' could begin to




 alter American strategy in ways that will vastly improve the 


 prospects of a more stable Middle East.



 No task is more important to the well-being of the United 


 States. We face great peril in that troubled region, and 


 improving our prospects will be difficult. First of all, it 


 will require, from Congress at least, public acknowledgment 


 that the president's policy is based on illusions, not 


 realities. There never has been any right way to invade and 


 transform Iraq. Most Americans need no further convincing, 


 but two truths ought to put the matter beyond question:



 First, the assumption that the United States could create a 


 liberal, constitutional democracy in Iraq defies just about 


 everything known by professional students of the topic. Of 


 the more than 40 democracies created since World War II, 


 fewer than 10 can be considered truly ''constitutional''--


 meaning that their domestic order is protected by a broadly 


 accepted rule of law, and has survived for at least a 


 generation. None is a country with Arabic and Muslim 


 political cultures. None has deep sectarian and ethnic 


 fissures like those in Iraq.



 Strangely, American political scientists whose business it 


 is to know these things have been irresponsibly quiet. In the 


 lead-up to the March 2003 invasion, neoconservative agitators 


 shouted insults at anyone who dared to mention the many 


 findings of academic research on how democracies evolve. They 


 also ignored our own struggles over two centuries to create 


 the democracy Americans enjoy today. Somehow Iraqis are now 


 expected to create a constitutional order in a country with 


 no conditions favoring it.



 This is not to say that Arabs cannot become liberal 


 democrats. When they immigrate to the United States, many do 


 so quickly. But it is to say that Arab countries, as well as 


 a large majority of all countries, find creating a stable 


 constitutional democracy beyond their capacities.



 Second, to expect any Iraqi leader who can hold his country 


 together to be pro-American, or to share American goals, is 


 to abandon common sense. It took the United States more than 


 a century to get over its hostility toward British 


 occupation. (In 1914, a majority of the public favored 


 supporting Germany against Britain.) Every month of the U.S. 


 occupation, polls have recorded Iraqis' rising animosity 


 toward the United States. Even supporters of an American 


 military presence say that it is acceptable temporarily and 


 only to prevent either of the warring sides in Iraq from 


 winning. Today the Iraqi government survives only because its 


 senior members and their families live within the heavily 


 guarded Green Zone, which houses the U.S. Embassy and 


 military command.



 As Congress awakens to these realities--and a few members 


 have bravely pointed them out--will it act on them? Not 


 necessarily. Too many lawmakers have fallen for the myths 


 that are invoked to try to sell the president's new war aims. 


 Let us consider the most pernicious of them.



 (1) We must continue the war to prevent the terrible 


 aftermath that will occur if our forces are withdrawn soon. 


 Reflect on the double-think of this formulation. We are now 


 fighting to prevent what our invasion made inevitable! 


 Undoubtedly we will leave a mess--the mess we created, which 


 has become worse each year we have remained. Lawmakers 


 gravely proclaim their opposition to the war, but in the next 


 breath express fear that quitting it will leave a blood bath, 


 a civil war, a terrorist haven, a ''failed state,'' or some 


 other horror. But this ''aftermath'' is already upon us; a 


 prolonged U.S. occupation cannot prevent what already exists.



 (2) We must continue the war to prevent Iran's influence 


 from growing in Iraq. This is another absurd notion. One of 


 the president's initial war aims, the creation of a democracy 


 in Iraq, ensured increased Iranian influence, both in Iraq 


 and the region. Electoral democracy, predictably, would put 


 Shiite groups in power--groups supported by Iran since Saddam 


 Hussein repressed them in 1991. Why are so many members of 


 Congress swallowing the claim that prolonging the war is now 


 supposed to prevent precisely what starting the war 


 inexorably and predictably caused? Fear that Congress will 


 confront this contradiction helps explain the administration 


 and neocon drumbeat we now hear for expanding the war to 


 Iran.



 Here we see shades of the Nixon-Kissinger strategy in 


 Vietnam: widen the war into Cambodia and Laos. Only this 


 time, the adverse consequences would be far greater. Iran's 


 ability to hurt U.S. forces in Iraq are not trivial. And the 


 anti-American backlash in the region would be larger, and 


 have more lasting consequences.



 (3) We must prevent the emergence of a new haven for al-


 Qaeda in Iraq. But it was the U.S. invasion that opened 


 Iraq's doors to al-Qaeda. The longer U.S. forces have 


 remained there, the stronger al-Qaeda has become. Yet its 


 strength within the Kurdish and Shiite areas is trivial. 


 After a U.S. withdrawal, it will probably play a continuing 


 role in helping the Sunni groups against the Shiites and the 


 Kurds. Whether such foreign elements could remain or thrive 


 in Iraq after the resolution of civil war is open to 


 question. Meanwhile, continuing the war will not push al-


 Qaeda outside Iraq. On the contrary, the American presence is 


 the glue that holds al-Qaeda there now.



 (4) We must continue to fight in order to ''support the 


 troops. ''This argument effectively paralyzes almost all 


 members of Congress. Lawmakers proclaim in grave tones a 


 litany of problems in Iraq sufficient to justify a rapid 


 pullout. Then they reject that logical conclusion, insisting 


 we cannot do so because we must support the troops. Has 


 anybody asked the troops?



 During their first tours, most may well have favored 


 ''staying the course''--whatever that meant to them--but now 


 in their second, third and fourth tours, many are changing 


 their minds. We see evidence of that in the many news stories 


 about unhappy troops being sent back to Iraq. Veterans groups 


 are beginning to make public the case for bringing them home. 


 Soldiers and officers in Iraq are speaking out critically to 


 reporters on the ground.



 But the strangest aspect of this rationale for continuing 


 the war is the implication that the troops are somehow 


 responsible for deciding to continue the president's course. 


 That political and moral responsibility belongs to the 


 president, not the troops. Did not President Harry S. Truman 


 make it clear that ''the buck stops'' in the Oval Office? If 


 the president keeps dodging it, where does it stop? With 


 Congress?



 Embracing the four myths gives Congress excuses not to 


 exercise its power of the purse to end the war and open the 


 way for a strategy that might actually bear fruit.



 The first and most critical step is to recognize that 


 fighting on now simply prolongs our losses and blocks the way 


 to a new strategy. Getting out of Iraq is the pre-condition 


 for creating new strategic options. Withdrawal will take away 


 the conditions that allow our enemies in the region to enjoy 


 our pain. It will awaken those European states reluctant to 


 collaborate with us in Iraq and the region.



 Second, we must recognize that the United States alone 


 cannot stabilize the Middle East.



 Third, we must acknowledge that most of our policies are 


 actually destabilizing the region. Spreading democracy, using 


 sticks to try to prevent nuclear proliferation, threatening 


 ''regime change,'' using the hysterical rhetoric of the 


 ''global war on terrorism''--all undermine the stability we 


 so desperately need in the Middle East.



 Fourth, we must redefine our purpose. It must be a stable 


 region, not primarily a democratic Iraq. We must redirect our 


 military operations so they enhance rather than undermine 


 stability. We can write off the war as a ''tactical draw'' 


 and make ''regional stability'' our measure of ''victory.'' 


 That single step would dramatically realign the opposing 


 forces in the region, where most states want stability. Even 


 many in the angry mobs of young Arabs shouting profanities 


 against the United States want predictable order, albeit on 


 better social and economic terms than they now have.



 Realigning our diplomacy and military capabilities to 


 achieve order will hugely reduce the numbers of our enemies 


 and gain us new and important allies. This cannot happen, 


 however, until our forces are moving out of Iraq. Why should 


 Iran negotiate to relieve our pain as long as we are 


 increasing its influence in Iraq and beyond? Withdrawal will 


 awaken most leaders in the region to their own need for U.S.-


 led diplomacy to stabilize their neighborhood.



 If Bush truly wanted to rescue something of his historical 


 legacy, he would seize the initiative to implement this kind 


 of strategy. He would eventually be held up as a leader 


 capable of reversing direction by turning an imminent, tragic 


 defeat into strategic recovery.



 If he stays on his present course, he will leave Congress 


 the opportunity to earn the credit for such a turnaround. It 


 is already too late to wait for some presidential candidate 


 for 2008 to retrieve the situation. If Congress cannot act, 


 it, too, will live in infamy.


He identified the shortcomings of the administration's Iraq policy 
and presented some of the clearest and most prescient thinking on the 
issue to date.

He places in stark relief what many of our colleagues refuse to 
accept, that the preemptive, unilateral course set by the President is 
not a strategy for success in Iraq.

He says: ''The first and most critical step is to recognize that 
fighting on now simply prolongs our losses and blocks the way to a new 
strategy. Getting out of Iraq is the precondition for creating new 
strategic options. Withdrawal will take away the conditions that allow 
our enemies in the region to enjoy our pain.

''Second,'' he says, ''we must recognize that the United States alone 
cannot stabilize the Middle East.

''Third, we must acknowledge that most of our policies are actually 
destabilizing the region. Spreading democracy, using sticks to try to 
prevent nuclear proliferation, threatening 'regime change,' using the 
hysterical rhetoric of the 'global war on terrorism' all undermine the 
stability we so desperately need in the Middle East.

''Fourth, we must redefine our purpose. It must be a stable region, 
not primarily a democratic Iraq. We must redirect our military 
operations so they enhance rather than undermine stability.''

So many experts, so many respected leaders, so many voices of 
patriots, and their critical analysis ignored.



Madam Speaker, in the preamble to our Constitution, three magnificent 
words lead the document: ''We, the people.'' The people of our Nation 
made the clearest and most important solemn judgment on Iraq in last 
November's election. They said, in overwhelming numbers, to change the 
direction of this war, to de-escalate, not escalate.

That is exactly what this debate is about. We pay tribute to and 
support our troops who honor our country with their service. We say, as 
the American people have said, enough is enough. I urge my colleagues 
to vote for this resolution.

