---
---

# AMERICAN HOUSING RESCUE AND FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008--
## `a3e67ee010a61f4bb1e28273c81724ad`
`Mrs. BOXER — 24 June 2008`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, this debate over gas prices and the long-
term and short-term solutions is going to go on for a while. I look 
forward to addressing them, both in my committees of jurisdiction and 
on the floor.










 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act


Mr. President, we are about to get a Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Act bill that is going to come to the Senate probably 
tomorrow. I know that a lot of my colleagues worked very hard and very 
long to try to get a compromise on this bill. I have to say that there 
is a portion of this bill that I believe is egregious and will prevent 
me from voting for this bill. It is because I believe one of the most 
basic tenets of our freedom is justice. Looking at justice, we have to 
see what lies at the heart of justice. And what lies at the heart of 
justice is the search for the truth. If you block the truth from coming 
out, if you don't allow a search for the truth, you don't find justice. 
I worry very much about that.

Throughout our history, whenever the U.S. Government has violated the 
trust of the American people, we have worked to regain that trust by 
seeking the truth and allowing for a full examination of the abuses of 
Government power. We can see that in the history of America. Sometimes 
these egregious acts take many years to uncover. I am thinking of the 
Tuskegee experiments. Of course, we have to go back to the days of 
slavery. Go back to the Jim Crow laws. Go back to the era of the 
Vietnam war and the tenure of J. Edgar Hoover, who headed the FBI. We 
knew in that particular case that the CIA and the FBI, under J. Edgar 
Hoover--he headed the FBI--he engaged in spying on the political 
activities of American citizens. He was spying on famous, important 
people, such as Martin Luther King. He was spying on people at the 
highest levels of Government. He was also spying on the American 
people. Pictures were taken at rallies where people were trying to 
argue for an end to the Vietnam war.

In 1975, the Church Committee, which would later become the Senate 
Committee on Intelligence, looked into allegations of covert and 
illegal spying by the Federal Government on Americans. What did the 
committee find? The committee found that, indeed, there had been spying 
on Americans by the FBI and the CIA.

Here is what is interesting. What did the Congress do when they found 
out, in horror, that the Government was spying on the people? They 
passed the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in 1978. It set up a 
new court with authority to approve electronic surveillance but only on 
a case-by-case basis. Since that time, we have updated FISA to reflect 
the changes in the threat we face in America and to reflect the new 
technologies.

Suddenly, in late 2005, we learned that the U.S. Government--our 
Government, the Bush administration--had violated the trust of the 
American people again when the New York Times published a story 
exposing a warrantless surveillance program authorized by President 
Bush shortly after 9/11. Since that time, Congress and the American 
people have been grappling with the disclosure and working, with no 
help from this administration, to find out what happened. We cannot 
find out exactly what happened, who was spied upon. Was I spied upon? 
Were you spied upon? How many people were spied upon? What information 
was gained?

In putting together the FISA bill, I do believe House and Senate 
members tried hard to find a balance and figure out a way to get to the 
truth, but I feel they have fallen short because what we will have 
before us when this bill comes before us is not only a bill that will 
deny the court the ability to make a judicial determination as to the 
legality of the spying program, but it will effectively guarantee 
immunity for the telecommunications companies that cooperated with the 
administration and violated the privacy of their customers.

You have to know that we had laws in place that specifically said to 
telephone companies: You cannot invade the privacy of your customers. 
What apparently happened was the Government went to them and said: We 
are asking you to disregard the law.

I understand the predicament of the companies, although there was one 
company that refused to cooperate. One company refused to cooperate. 
They said: No, we are not going to do it. But all the others 
cooperated. And now we have a situation where we know the telephone 
companies responded to the Government and said: OK, we will disregard 
that law on your say-so.


I would support granting the telecom companies indemnification--in 
other words, having the Government step in and be the party that has to 
pay the price--but this immunity provision that is in the bill blocks 
us from finding the truth. Remember what I said when I started: The 
essence of justice is to get to the truth, and we are not going to be 
able to get to the truth. We are not going to know exactly how this 
program ran. We don't know enough. The Bush administration, in my view, 
trampled on the Constitution, and we are not doing anything in this 
bill to provide accountability. Frankly, if we just left out this 
provision and passed the rest of the bill, we would let the courts do 
their job. Fine. But, no, no, we have to add this provision and 
essentially set up kind of a new law now to deal with this spying 
operation.

I don't think we can hold up the Constitution when it suits us and 
set it aside when it hinders us. That is not what the Constitution is.

The supporters of this compromise will say: Wait a minute, Senator 
Boxer, we have a provision in there that says the telecom companies 
have to prove they were asked by the Government to do this activity. We 
know they were asked by them. That is why I don't want to punish the 
telecom companies.

Mr. President, I tell you what I do want to do: find out the truth. 
That, the truth, I want to find out. I have to believe that if we don't 
change Title II of this bill, we are perpetuating a coverup. I use that 
word advisedly because I don't think we will ever get to the truth of 
what happened here.

I support giving our country every tool necessary to track down the 
terrorists. I voted to go to war against bin Laden, and I am disgusted 
that he is still out there taunting us, all these days, all these 
years, despite George Bush. Dead or alive, we will get him. Where is 
he? I want to go after al-Qaida. I want to go after bin Laden. I think 
we do have to provide all the tools that are necessary, but we also 
must uphold the Constitution and the rights of our citizens.

This granting of immunity will block the courts from moving forward 
and learning whose privacy was violated. I want to be able to look in 
the eyes of my constituents in California, 38 million people, and say: 
I know you were in that group of people, and I feel terrible, and we 
are going to make it right for you; or, I know you were not involved in 
being caught up in this net.

These are extraordinary and difficult times. Our sons and daughters 
were sent to Iraq to fight for our freedoms. We have to listen to what 
former Justice Marshall says:




 History teaches us that grave threats to liberty often come 


 in times of urgency, when constitutional rights seem too 


 extravagant to endure.


Our Constitution is not an extravagance. It is the centerpiece, the 
very essence of a democracy. It is what our sons and daughters are 
fighting for abroad. How could we say on the one hand to our soldiers: 
Go fight for our freedoms, go fight for the freedoms in our 
Constitution, while at home we are covering up the erosion of those 
freedoms?

The bill was improved upon, and I am glad Title I improved the way we 
go about protecting the rights of our citizens and balances it with the 
need to get this information. I am very pleased with that. But it seems 
to me, if you believe in the truth, then I don't see how you grant this 
type of immunity.

Again, I would substitute the Government, I would indemnify these 
companies. I am not interested in hurting them. But I want to get to 
the truth. We have a really good way to do that, which is to strip this 
part from the bill. We will have our rights protected then. We will 
have the tools we need to fight terrorism. We must do better than this.

So unless there is some miracle that happens overnight and we see 
some changes, I will be forced to oppose this bill. I am hoping we will 
have an opportunity to vote on a substitute that will


keep the rest of the bill intact but eliminate this egregious provision 
which really is very troubling. Anyone who lived through the days of J. 
Edgar Hoover and the kind of spying that went on, who understands FISA 
was passed to protect Americans has to be alarmed.

I yield the floor.