---
---

# TERRORIST ATTACKS ON AMERICA
## `a3f4bd0629d1a34fc09c3c17b982bcd4`
`Mr. GOHMERT — 13 January 2010`

---


Mr. GOHMERT. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

It is an interesting time we live in. We have heard in the past year 
that Gitmo is the main recruiting tool, the best recruiting tool for al 
Qaeda, for Islamic jihadists who want to destroy America. And so I 
thought it was important that we look at that a little more in depth, 
rather than just having a cursory action, because for those of us who 
have been to Gitmo, I have been twice, I know that no one has ever been 
waterboarded at the Guantanamo Bay facility. The Khalid Sheikh Mohammed 
waterboarding occurred in the Middle East. And there are those that are 
worried about waterboarding continuing.

The fact is, when that was leaked and such a big deal made out of it 
and the fact that when the U.S. has done it, been involved, there have 
been a doctor there, there was no way they were going to allow harm to 
come to the individual being waterboarded, the word was out. And so 
Islamic extremists, jihadists that want to kill America, that want to 
wipe us off the face of the map, want to destroy Israel, they knew and 
could tell their extremists you don't have to worry if you are ever 
waterboarded, because they will have a doctor there, they are not going 
to let anything happen to you. So obviously, it will never work as a 
procedure again. But as we have found out, there are a lot of Americans 
that are alive today because that procedure was used.

So if Gitmo had never been used as a location where waterboarding or 
torture of any kind occurred, then why is it so bad? Well, it is 
because a lot of people don't know what they are talking about. Having 
visited many prisons as a judge, chief justice, and even as a 
Congressman having visited prisons, I know from visiting Guantanamo Bay 
facility, the detention facility there, that the people are not 
mistreated. They get good food. And in fact, most of the detainees 
there have gained weight, not lost weight. They get excellent medical 
facilities. They get treatment when they need it. The interrogation 
often, if there is any at all, occurs in a big lounge chair there.

In fact, the biggest problem there at Guantanamo Bay for those who 
work there is having feces and urine thrown on them. The detainees 
figure out really brilliant ways to go about throwing


feces and urine on the guards. Now, at most prisons if you do that you 
are put in isolation, where there is no way you could do something like 
that again. Not at Guantanamo Bay.

As I was told by a commander there, because there are so many 
frequent visits by those who want to make sure no one is being done 
wrong there, they don't want anyone ever to be found in isolation no 
matter how much feces or urine they are throwing. So the thing that is 
normally done is taking away some of their movie watching time. Yes, 
they watch movies there. Nothing that violates their religion. They are 
given Korans that American hands have never touched. They are given 
food that is not inconsistent with their religious beliefs. It is 
really rather amazing.

And then all of the money that was spent to build a courtroom 
facility there, and areas where the detainees could consult with their 
attorneys in private so that it was clear to anyone in that facility, 
in that detention area that there is no way to have bugs in this place, 
and so you could truly have private consultation, but it is so isolated 
an area you didn't have to worry about anybody coming in there. And the 
security measures were such there that it was an amazing facility for 
the trial of alleged terrorists.

Now, we have Americans who are saying but it is just wrong to hold 
somebody without trying them. Those people are completely ignorant. 
They are not mean. They are just ignorant of the laws of war that have 
gone throughout time. Because never in the history of mankind has there 
been a time when a group declared war on another group or country and 
then were captured while they were in the process of bringing war 
against those individuals that they were given full civilian treatment 
in court. Certainly there has never been any American prisoners that 
were treated like that.

In fact, if you read of the torture to Americans during World War II, 
some in the Pacific, some in Europe, but just phenomenal the treatment 
that has been accorded Americans. If you look at what has happened 
before Guantanamo Bay was ever opened to Americans at the hands of 
jihadists, extremists, then you find out that Gitmo didn't cause those 
problems. They didn't cause a rallying cry for people to join some 
extremist jihadist group. It was a matter of their religious beliefs.

And if you look at the pleading that was filed by Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammed, who has now been ordered by our President, our Attorney 
General to be brought to New York for trial instead of being tried 
under the constitutional military commission down in Guantanamo, you 
see what he has to say. In fact, if you go back to his last--and this 
was declassified so that everyone in the country and the world could 
know what he had to say.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is a very smart man. He is intent on doing 
everything he can to help destroy America, destroy our freedoms, 
destroy our way of life. But if you look at page six of his pleading, 
toward the end, he says, ''We have news for you. The news is you will 
be greatly defeated in Afghanistan and Iraq, and that America will fall 
politically, militarily, and economically. Your end is very near, and 
your fall will be just as the fall of the towers on the blessed 9/11 
day. We will raise from the ruins, God willing,'' Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammed says. ''We will leave this imprisonment with our noses raised 
high in dignity, as the lion emerges from his den.'' And he says, ''We 
ask God to accept our contributions to the great attack on America, and 
to place our 19 martyred brethren among the highest peaks in 
paradise.''

Other comments he had to say in his pleading, and as I understand it 
he did his own interpretation, and he would make statements and then 
support them with what he believed was support from the Koran itself, 
he says, ''God stated in his book, verse 190, Al-Baqara, and fight in 
the way of Allah those who fight you, but Allah likes not the 
transgressors.'' But then he goes on in the very next page and talks 
about then fight--and he quotes, he says, ''From God's book, verse 
nine, Al-Tawbah, then fight and slay the pagans wherever you find them, 
and seize them, and besiege them and lie in wait for them in each and 
every ambush.''



He says himself, ''In God's book, he ordered us to fight you wherever 
we find you, even if you were inside the holiest of all holy cities, 
the Mosque in Mecca, and the holy city of Mecca, and even during sacred 
months.'' So we've been told we could never fight a battle with 
extremist jihadists during Ramadan because that might violate their 
religious beliefs. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed states his belief that it's 
fine for them to blow us up in their sacred months, that's just fine.

He goes on in another place, he says, ''We do not possess your 
military might, nor your nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, we fight you 
with the Almighty God. So, if our acts of jihad and our fighting with 
you caused fear and terror, then many thanks to God, because it is him 
that has thrown fear into your hearts, which resulted in your 
infidelity, paganism, and your statement that God had a son and your 
trinity beliefs.''

So obviously anyone who is a Christian, who believes that there is a 
Father, Son and Holy Ghost as part of the Holy Trinity, as was cited in 
the Treaty of Paris 1783--an original copy of that is over in our State 
Department on display. And you can see that the bold big letters that 
start the Treaty of Paris in which England had to recognize the United 
States--there was a treaty after the surrender at Yorktown, but this 
was the official treaty that England officially signed onto. They knew 
this was so important that they had to have it done in the name that 
was so important that no one in England would dare try to violate that 
oath. So in big, bold letters it says, ''In the name of the undivided 
and most Holy Trinity.''

So Khalid Sheikh Mohammed makes clear that anybody that would sign 
onto something like that clearly is an infidel and needs to be killed.

Then he quotes, God stated in his book, verse 151, Al-Umran, ''Soon 
shall we cast terror into the hearts of the unbelievers, for that they 
joined companies with Allah, for which he has sent no authority''--in 
other words, saying that Allah or God had a son--''their place will be 
the fire; and evil is the home of the wrongdoers.''

Again, this is the pleading that was declassified by the court so we 
could know what Khalid Sheikh Mohammed wrote. And he wrote it 
apparently, but on behalf of himself and the other prisoners who are 
now going to be transferred to New York City in an unprecedented move 
to get him right in the middle where he can cause more trouble.

By the way, they were planning on pleading guilty. They were pleading 
guilty. There was not going to be much of a trial because they were 
going to plead guilty, take credit for what they've done, as he has 
done in this pleading. But now that our President and the Attorney 
General have said, hey, let's bring them to New York, let's give them a 
platform to spew their anger and hatred and disgust for the United 
States and let's give them a platform--they didn't say this verbally, 
but it's clearly what is happening and will happen--this will give them 
a platform to recruit for the terrorists.

I know the President didn't intend to do that, I know that our 
Attorney General didn't intend to do it, but they're just ignorant of 
history and therefore they don't realize--and we'll forgive them, they 
know not what they do. But we need to look at these things that have 
been said.

If you look at the bottom of page 5, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed says, 
''America is the number one, and the largest country in the world, 
spreading military might and terrorism.'' He says, America is the 
principal and greatest supplier to the occupying terrorist State of 
Israel, and so God has ordered us to spend for jihad and this cause. 
And he says this is evident in many Koranic verses.

There is one thing he says, though. He says, ''God has stated in his 
book, verse 14, Al-Hashir: They fight not against you even together, 
except in fortified townships, or from behind walls, their enmity among 
themselves is very great, you would think that they were united, but 
their hearts are divided. That is because they are a people who 
understand not.''

And so as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is saying, this is a great 
recruiting tool because of their ignorance. They don't


know who they're fighting. They're not united. Obviously they're people 
that don't realize we're at war with them, and so they want to be 
buddies. And others realize we're at war with them and they want to 
stop us. But because of that division, the ignorance of those who don't 
really understand the war--not of the vast majority of Islam, but for 
this small, perhaps 1 percent of Islam, these extremist groups, they're 
saying they're going to be able to defeat us because we're divided 
because so many are ignorant and don't understand that they are in such 
a war with us.

I see I have a colleague, Mr. Thompson; I would like to yield him 
such time as he may need.