# None
## `a4065c8e28f1886d9f0e1406f36dadfc`
`Mr. KLINE of Minnesota â€” 18 June 2007`

---


Mr. KLINE of Minnesota. I thank the gentleman very much for his 
insight and certainly his passion on this issue. I, too, want to thank 
all of the men and women in uniform. And certainly we are here tonight 
talking some about the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Peter 
Pace, who will be retiring this fall, but we are also here to talk 
about the other leaders and the values that are at their core.

Minnesota is like other States in the Union. We have members of our 
National Guard who have deployed, and deployed again in some cases. We 
have 2,600 members of the Minnesota National Guard serving in Iraq now 
as members of the Red Bulls, and we are so proud of them and looking 
forward to them coming back this summer. The sooner the better.

That is an issue that has been mentioned by Members on both sides of 
the aisle that there have been mistakes made, and there certainly have. 
One of the early mistakes was not building up the size of the active 
forces and relying so heavily on these men and women in the reserve 
component, the reserves that the gentleman from Tennessee mentioned, 
and the members of the National Guard from all over having to go, 
having to leave their civilian jobs and leave their families and go and 
serve, and they do so willingly and bravely and well. And then they 
come back and have to resume their civilian lives, and we have to do a 
better job of reintegrating them in this body. We need to not let up.

But I want to thank you, Mr. Wamp, for coming down here and helping 
us understand what it is that we are fighting. You put it so well.

I know the gentleman remembers way back when the 9/11 Commission came 
out, and in that report they said we are fighting Islamist extremists. 
They didn't say we were just fighting al Qaeda. Certainly we are 
fighting al Qaeda. And it seems so long ago now,


and as you pointed out, it is even clearer now that this enemy that we 
are fighting is very, very determined. It is the jihadists in that 
moment that are at the core of this, and they are not going to quit.



America's a great country, greatest in the world with great people. 
But we're an impatient people, and it's difficult; no, it is impossible 
for us to understand what's in the minds of people who are not only 
willing but apparently eager to strap bombs to children and blow them 
up and kill innocent, innocent men, women, and children in the name of 
their cause and reestablishing that sharia law and that caliphate and 
then moving on to the world.

And so like you, I am just grateful for the men and women in uniform 
and for all they have done and for their leaders. And before we wrap up 
here this evening, I want to mention briefly some of the other leaders 
that we don't sometimes talk so much about, but they are part of this 
fight, and they're an integral part.

We just got a new commander of Central Command, Admiral William 
Fallon, a new leader, will bring new ideas and a new face. We've been 
ably led in the past, but it's important sometimes that we get a change 
of face and a new idea, get a new team sometimes. And Admiral Fallon is 
bringing some new insights into this fight.

He was a naval aviator, a graduate of Villanova University in 1967, 
came through the Naval ROTC program, as I did. I have a lot of good 
things to say about the service academies. I think they do a terrific 
job, but there is no question that we get fine officers, men and women, 
who come through our other commissioning programs like the Naval ROTC 
program.

Admiral Fallon served as an aviator in Vietnam, has had a very 
distinguished career. He is going on now to take overall command of 
everything in Central Command which, of course, includes all of Iraq 
and the surrounding countries, and we're glad to have him.

General David Petraeus has been mentioned this evening, a really fine 
officer, graduate of the West Point Military Academy, has a Ph.D., very 
distinguished career. I've had the pleasure of sitting and talking with 
General Petraeus on two previous trips to Iraq. He was the commander of 
the 101st Airborne Division and Operation Iraqi Freedom One, and when I 
went over there, my first trip to Iraq, he was the commanding general 
up in Mosul. I had a chance to go and talk to him, and I was impressed 
then with his intelligence and his determination and his leadership.

What a fine job the 101st did, not only in winning the initial combat 
but in starting to establish some local government and progress amongst 
the people of Mosul. And I thought at the time, what a fine officer, 
and all my colleagues who traveled over there, Republicans and 
Democrats, came back with glowing reports of General David Petraeus.

It was later my son became a member of the 101st under a different 
commander and has gone to Iraq and served for a year and come back and 
served well, and General Petraeus left that division in good shape.

General Petraeus went back to Iraq and served as the man in charge of 
training the Iraqi security forces, and so he was able to see firsthand 
what the difficulties were and what we needed to do there. And then he 
went on to become probably the Nation's foremost authority in 
unconventional warfare, ideally suited to his job. And so when the 
President nominated him to be the senior American commander in Iraq, he 
was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate.

And under him is Lieutenant General Raymond Odierno, another fine 
officer with previous service in Iraq and a graduate of the United 
States Military Academy. All of these officers, too many awards and 
decorations to name.

My point this evening is that we are ably led by fine men who hew to 
an ethic of, as General Douglas MacArthur said, ''Duty, Honor, 
Country,'' but the core values seen at the Naval Academy and the United 
States Marine Corps of honor, courage, commitment, all of these men 
exemplify those core values, and they provide firm, steady, well-
informed leadership to the men and women who serve us so well in all 
the corners of the world. And they're doing a good job.

I just want to share with you a couple of quotes that I've got here 
about things that are going on in Iraq. Goodness knows we see plenty of 
bad news, and there is certainly some to share. And every time there's 
an explosion and our soldiers are killed or wounded, it pains us 
deeply. And when civilians are killed, it's a tragedy. But we're 
fighting against an enemy that is fierce and determined, as my 
colleague Mr. Wamp from Tennessee outlined so well.

This is a tough enemy and we need tough soldiers to fight them, and 
all of us recognize that you cannot win this only militarily, that you 
need economics and you need politics and you need diplomacy. And I 
would say that these leaders that we've talked about tonight, Admiral 
Fallon, General Petraeus, General Odierno and certainly the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Peter Pace, understand that very 
well. But they're attending to the first order of business first. They 
want to make sure that our men and women are well-led. They're fighting 
to win. We in this body, my colleagues, need to make sure that we're 
giving them every chance to win.

And I just notice some quotes that have just been in the news in the 
last couple of days. U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker says, ''It is 
noteworthy that violence is down in the two areas where the surge is 
focused, Anbar and Baghdad.''

And our friend from the other side of the Capitol, Senator Joe 
Lieberman says, ''Our troops have succeeded in improving security 
conditions in precisely those parts of Iraq where the surge has 
focused.''

We can't win it all in a day. It's going to be a long fight. The men 
and women serving and fighting understand this. We need to understand 
this and make sure that we are, in fact, being true to ourselves and 
true to them.

I want to share just a brief story about the fine leadership that we 
have, not just these men that we've talked about tonight, but the fine 
young men and women who are stepping up to lead our Armed Forces today.

One of the great things we get to do as Members of Congress is 
nominate these fine young students to go forward to the academy. We're 
always thrilled when one is selected to go, and the joy that they have 
and the pride that their families feel is certainly moving.

In my first year here as a Member of this body, my niece graduated 
from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Vicky and I went up for 
several days of ceremonies and to share with my sister and brother-in-
law and nieces their joy and pride in my niece's accomplishment.

She, by the way, now Captain Stroecker, is serving in the United 
States Army. She served a year over in Kuwait. She served in Germany, 
and she's the kind of officer that makes us proud.

But while we were there at West Point, we were surrounded by these 
young cadets, some of them just getting ready to be commissioned. And 
we were there when the second lieutenants' bars were pinned on, but I 
remember sitting with Vicky in the audience and witnessing a ceremony 
that I found to be very moving. It was a very impressive thing to 
watch.

This is a ceremony where the graduating class turns over command, 
turns over command to the brigade, to the rising seniors, the juniors 
rising to be seniors, and you see the long gray line march out in that 
ceremony. Movies are made about the long gray line, stories written, 
and it's moving to watch it, and they march out, and they pass command 
from one class to the next.


And I remember thinking as that ceremony was going on and looking at 
those fine, fine young men and women, I remember thinking, no wonder, 
no wonder that the United States has the finest Armed Forces in the 
world and no wonder that we're the best we've ever been, with all 
apologies to the Greatest Generation, my father's generation, an Army 
World War II veteran, but today's Army and today's Marine Corps and 
Navy and Air Force and Coast Guard are the best they have ever been, 
all volunteer, all eager, all determined. They understand that enemy 
that my colleague, the gentleman from Tennessee, was describing. They 
know that what they're doing is


important, that without their success we are in great danger.

But as you look at those fine young men and women and when you are 
there, when they move on to become second lieutenants, you just can't 
help but notice that that's the reason why our men and women in uniform 
today are led by very, very fine leaders.

Well, I see that we're nearing the end of the time for this Special 
Order. I'm sure there is more to be said about the fine men and women 
who are leading our military, and that's what we were about this 
evening, to talk a little bit about the conflict we're involved in, the 
importance of that leadership and the people who are leading and 
certainly to talk about General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff.

Pete, I think it was my colleague, Robin Hayes, who said, we love 
you, and we thank you, and we wish you all the best. And I know that 
sometimes you thought about these words, I certainly have over the 
years, President Ronald Reagan said way back in 1985; he said, some 
people spend an entire lifetime wondering if they made a difference in 
the world, but the Marines don't have that problem. And Pete Pace has 
never had that problem. He has been a great leader. He is a great 
leader. We're looking forward to his leadership in the closing months 
of his tour as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. We thank him 
for everything that he has done, that he is doing and that he is going 
to do.
