# BULLETPROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP GRANT ACT OF 2008
## `a40f21ca87de60cd9213af1f0cc591c9`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 27 September 2008`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam Speaker, as a proud cosponsor of this 
bill I urge its approval by the House.

The bill will extend through fiscal year 2012 the highly successful 
grant program for armor vests for law enforcement officers.

The program was originally established in 1998 through enactment of 
legislation sponsored by Colorado's Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell. 
Since then, over 11,900 jurisdictions have participated in the program, 
with $173 million in Federal funds committed to support the purchase of 
an estimated 450,000 vests.

For example, in fiscal year 2007, 60 separate jurisdictions in 
Colorado received more than $352,000 to assist with the purchase of 
1,883 vests.

And while of course the most vests were purchased by the largest law 
enforcement


agencies--570 by the city and county of Denver, 344 by the State of 
Colorado, 131 by Adams County and 45 by EI Paso County--the program 
also assisted many smaller agencies as well, including those in 
Hinsdale County, Moffat County, Federal Heights, Glenwood Springs, and 
Durango.

Police officers from across our State have told me the program has 
been a great success, improving the safety and security of American law 
enforcement officers and better enabling them to do their job. And 
while President Bush's budgets have repeatedly neglected to request the 
full funding authorized for the program, Congress has stepped up and 
recognized its importance and appropriated the funds needed to keep it 
strong.

Bulletproof vests are expensive but essential. No officer should be 
without one and they should be basic equipment made available to 
officers when we ask them to perform dangerous jobs. If we can afford 
to pay for training and equipment for Iraqi police--and we indeed are 
paying for that--I think we can afford to help pay for bulletproof 
vests for the officers who protect Americans here at home.

So, Madam Speaker, I urge approval of this bill, to renew and extend 
the authorization for this very important program.
