---
---

# EARMARK DECLARATION
## `a40f90f99e6735cc9fd6703a29b8d493`
`Mr. SULLIVAN — 23 May 2008`

---


Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam Speaker, consistent with House Republican 
Leadership earmark standards, I am submitting the following earmark 
disclosures for publication in the Congressional Record:

Bill Number: H.R. 5658--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: GWACS Defense, Inc.

Address of Requesting Entity: 4500 South 129th East Avenue, Tulsa, OK 
74163.

Description of Request: Provide an authorization earmark of 
$8,500,000 for the Ground Warfare Acoustical Combat System of Netted 
Sensors. The entire project cost to complete is $19,200,000, with 
anticipated funding of $5,000,000 being raised privately by GWACS 
Defense, Inc. over the next two years. This request is consistent with 
the intended and authorized purpose of the Department of Defense, 
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy account. The funding 
will be used by the Marine Corps Warfighting Lab to accelerate 
completion and purchase of a new small arms fire detection and location 
technology for force protection in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Bill Number: H.R. 5658--National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009.

Account: Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy.

Legal Name of Requesting Entity: Westwood Corporation.

Address of Requesting Entity: 12402 E. 60th Street, Tulsa, OK 74146.

Description of Request: Provide an authorization earmark of 
$1,500,000 for Power Conversion Equipment for High Density Power 
Generation Packages. The $1,500,000 project will be funded as follows: 
Design: $180,000; Purchased Parts, Fabrication and Assembly:


$720,000; Functional Testing: $120,000; Onsite Testing Support; 
$480,000. This request is consistent with the intended and authorized 
purpose of the Department of Defense, Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy account. The funding will be used to allow the 
electrical output of a new design generator with advanced shipboard 
architectures. Given that this request will be providing support to a 
federal agency, matching funds for this request is not required.
