---
---

# DARFUR ACCOUNTABILITY AND DIVESTMENT ACT
## `a420850dfb51bd6a14b69c6f7e5054d1`
`Mr. PAUL — 30 July 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 180 is premised on the assumption that. 
divestment, sanctions, and other punitive measures are effective in 
influencing repressive regimes, when in fact nothing could be further 
from the truth. Proponents of such methods fail to remember that where 
goods cannot cross borders, troops will. Sanctions against Cuba, Iraq, 
and numerous other countries failed to topple their governments. Rather 
than weakening dictators, these sanctions strengthened their hold on 
power and led to more suffering on the part of the Cuban and Iraqi 
people. To the extent that divestment effected change in South Africa, 
it was brought about by private individuals working through the market 
to influence others.

No one denies that the humanitarian situation in Darfur is dire, but 
the United States Government has no business entangling itself in this 
situation, nor in forcing divestment on unwilling parties. Any further 
divestment action should be undertaken through voluntary means and not 
by government fiat.

H.R. 180 is an interventionist piece of legislation which will extend 
the power of the Federal Government over American businesses, force 
this country into yet another foreign policy debacle, and do nothing to 
alleviate the suffering of the residents of Darfur. By allowing State 
and local governments to label pension and retirement funds as State 
assets, the Federal Government is giving the go-ahead for State and 
local governments to play politics with the savings upon which millions 
of Americans depend for security in their old age. The safe harbor 
provision opens another dangerous loophole, allowing fund managers to 
escape responsibility for any potential financial mismanagement, and it 
sets a dangerous precedent. Would the Congress offer the same safe 
harbor provision to fund managers who wish to divest from firms 
offering fatty foods, growing tobacco, or doing business in Europe?

This bill would fail in its aim of influencing the Government of the 
Sudan, and would likely result in the exact opposite of its intended 
effects. The regime in Khartoum would see no loss of oil revenues, and 
the civil conflict will eventually flare up again. The unintended 
consequences of this bill on American workers, investors, and companies 
need to be considered as well. Forcing American workers to divest from 
companies which may only be tangentially related to supporting the 
Sudanese government could have serious economic repercussions which 
need to be taken into account.