# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a42223e31b99d5b9269bc8d694c869b1`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 15 February 2007`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 63.

I rise today to acknowledge and honor the service and sacrifice made 
by military and civilian personnel who have served and who are serving 
today in Iraq, Afghanistan, on the Horn of Africa, and elsewhere around 
the world in defense of the national security of the United States. 
These individuals, and their families who support them from home, are 
to be commended for their dedication to our country.

I represent the island of Guam. Sons and daughters of Guam, and those 
from our neighboring islands in the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, Micronesia, Palau, and the Marshalls, serve proudly in 
the United States Armed Forces. These individuals serve at a critical 
point in our country's history and we are grateful for their dedication 
to their mission and their commitment to ensuring our freedom.

I have been able to visit on eight occasions with our servicemembers 
deployed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Horn of Africa to see first hand 
their living conditions, learn about their missions, and gain a better 
understanding of the challenges that confront them. All of us on Guam 
are immensely proud of our men and women from Guam who serve our 
Nation. I have heard their stories and have been humbled by their 
struggles, their heartbreaking loss, and their inspiring instances of 
achievement. I have come away from each of these visits with profound 
gratitude for their sacrifices and their professionalism.

Serving in defense of the United States does not come without 
heartache and sacrifice. Eighteen servicemembers from Guam and our 
neighboring islands in the Pacific, Saipan, Pohnpei, and Palau, are 
among the more than 3,000 reported by the Department of Defense to have 
made the ultimate sacrifice in the Global War on Terror. Our island 
communities united to mourn the passing of each one of our sons and 
daughters, as we mourn the loss of all servicemembers. We will continue 
to provide support to grieving families who suffer the burden of these 
losses. Every American owes a debt of gratitude--albeit an un-payable 
one--to our fallen and injured servicemembers and their families.

The year 2007 also will be witness to more tours of duty in Iraq, 
Afghanistan and the Horn of Africa for our active duty, Guard and 
Reserve servicemen and women. For some it will be their second, third, 
and fourth tours of duty in those theaters of operations. This is a lot 
to ask even of the world's finest fighting men and women. They serve 
proudly and their morale remains high and their fighting spirits remain 
strong. God bless their families and friends who remain behind 
supportive and proud of their loved ones.

We owe our servicemembers and their families our best efforts toward 
helping our Armed Forces achieve an expeditious and honorable 
completion to Operation Iraqi Freedom. This should be a primary goal 
for all of us. But the situation in Iraq will not yield a solution 
easily. Nevertheless, the President, in consultation with this 
Congress, must endeavor to find one. And it is for this reason that I 
introduced H.R. 744, the Iraq Policy Revitalization and Congressional 
Oversight Enhancement Act. H.R. 744 also would aim to revitalize U.S.-
Iraq policy; would require the President to provide to Congress a plan 
that addresses the whole of the challenge in Iraq; would improve 
congressional oversight of Operation Iraqi Freedom and events in Iraq; 
would seek to increase the commitment made by the international 
community to the stability and security of Iraq; and would ultimately, 
help bring our troops home in an honorable, expeditious manner without 
sacrificing their mission.

The Iraq Study Group, co-chaired by former Secretary of State James 
Baker and former Congressman Lee Hamilton, concluded that many of the 
challenges in Iraq are of an international nature, and they become more 
so--not less so--as each day passes. As a result, it is becoming 
increasingly important to view United States policy toward Iraq as a 
part of and not isolated from United States policy toward the region as 
a whole. It also is becoming increasingly important for countries in 
the region and the international community to become more fully engaged 
in the effort to stabilize Iraq. The Iraq Study Group recommended that 
we support efforts to promote a multilateral agreement between the 
United States, Coalition countries, regional states, and multilateral 
organizations. A multilateral agreement will help bring renewed focus 
to and enhanced international cooperation toward resolving Iraq's 
problems. A multilateral agreement will help reaffirm the existence of 
a united front against elements that seek to destabilize Iraq, and thus 
bring added pressure to bear on those actors. Lastly, a multilateral 
agreement would provide for the formation of a forum in which current 
and future regional security, political, and economic issues regarding 
Iraq's continued development can be discussed and addressed. The 
establishment and maintenance of conciliatory relations between Iraq, 
its neighbors, regional states and the international community is 
essential to stabilizing Iraq internally.

As the debate today on H. Con. Res. 63 continues, I take this 
opportunity to call attention to H.R. 744 and the various other 
legislative proposals that have been brought forth by members of this 
body to help us bring Operation Iraqi Freedom to a conclusion. In the 
weeks ahead I hope that this body will seriously consider these 
measures. It is very difficult to consider the merits of the 
President's decision to deploy additional troops to Iraq at this time 
without having received from the Administration a comprehensive plan 
that clearly communicates to the Congress and the American people 
exactly what is necessary to complete the mission of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom.