---
---

# ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY  DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007
## `a42732df3e1ee61e2f0f7c988658c98b`
`Mrs. MILLER of Michigan — 2 August 2007`

---


Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I don't think you can find a 
single Member in this House who does not want the war in Iraq to end. 
We pray every day, every day that the war ends. And we are all so very 
proud of the brave men and women who serve us in the Armed Forces. We 
all want them to come home to their families safe and secure.

But unfortunately, the terrorists don't really care what we want. 
Like it or not, the terrorists' war against us is going to continue 
through the end of this administration and into the next. Whatever you 
think of George W. Bush, after his time is up, this war will not end.

I can understand the consternation that some have for the way the 
Bush administration has prosecuted this war. I can understand the 
desire of some who want to tie his hands. But for the life of me, I 
cannot understand why we would want to tie the hands of the next 
administration, of the next President, as he, or she, takes on the 
mantle of responsibility to lead our Armed Forces as Commander in 
Chief.

In fact, I just heard the other day one of the major Democrat 
Presidential contenders, Senator Obama, who said that as President he 
might order an invasion into Pakistan. This, of course, would be a 
major escalation of the war. How would this legislation affect his 
ability to do that? What impact would it have on our troops, because 
this legislation only refers to Iraq deployments.

Could some troops who just returned from Iraq, could they immediately 
be deployed to Pakistan by ''President Obama''. I believe it would 
allow that, regardless of their need for dwell time.

All of us need to think through everything we are doing and how our 
actions affect our troops and their families. Military families should 
not be given false hope of decreased deployments and longer dwell 
times, because any President forced to take on the tremendous 
responsibility of leading our Armed Forces in this war will just 
utilize the waiver provisions in this bill and make it meaningless.

You would think any President would just give their Secretary of 
Defense a blanket waiver. So really, what is the point of this 
legislation?

Mr. Speaker, in September, General Petraeus will be coming to 
Congress with his unvarnished assessment in his report on progress in 
Iraq. Recent reports fortunately have been more positive about the 
progress being made by our military; although, I will note that the 
lack of progress by the Iraqi Government on the political front remains 
a huge problem. The fact that the Iraqi Parliament is taking a recess 
is cause for great consternation.



But let us all pray that real progress is happening which will allow 
our troops to come home, and complete their mission and come home soon. 
I would ask my colleagues to wait to hear the assessment from General 
Petraeus and then make a judgment on how to move forward in Iraq. I 
don't believe this legislation is fair to our troops.

And I also want to make a point that I have very high regard and 
respect for my colleague, the gentlewoman from California, who brings 
this to the floor today. I do not question her motives for a moment on 
this, but I do urge my colleagues to defeat this legislation.