---
---

# None
## `a42e416bd10f0a7842419153ce414268`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont — 23 May 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the Veterans' 
Affairs Committee, the openness of that committee, to let anyone with a 
good idea to help veterans to come in and have an opportunity to do 
that. Mr. Filner, Mr. Michaud, and, of course, Mr. Buyer and Mr. 
Miller, thank you.

Rural Americans have always served the Nation's armed services, 
National Guard and Reserves in very great numbers. In fact, though only 
19 percent of the Nation lives in rural America, 44 percent of the 
current U.S. military recruits come from rural areas, and nearly one-
third of those who died in Iraq are from small towns and communities 
across the Nation, Vermont very much among them.

And unfortunately, access to health care for many of our veterans in 
rural areas is limited by mileage, distance and just the difficulty of 
transportation. Especially true, the provision of mental health care in 
rural settings has historically been a challenge for all health care 
systems and providers, including the VA. And therefore, what we 
recognize in this legislation is that we need to help the VA develop 
innovative solutions to address the need for mental health services in 
remote areas, TBI being the big injury that's been discussed by my 
colleagues.

This legislation takes a significant step towards improving the 
mental health services available to geographically isolated veterans. 
It creates a pilot program where at least two mobile vet centers will 
provide readjustment counseling and mental health services to veterans 
in at least five Veterans Integrated Service Networks that have the 
highest concentration of rural veterans.



One of these covers New England and my home State of Vermont. These 
mobile vet centers will also provide information and outreach 
concerning veterans benefits and, when practicable, assistance with 
claims for benefits.

Rural individuals and their families have strong bonds and ties to 
their communities. These mobile vet centers will allow veterans to stay 
in their communities and prevent endless hours of car rides for the 
care they receive.

I urge support and passage of this legislation and thank the 
committee for its indulgence.