---
---

# COLONEL THOMAS C. CHAPMAN
## `a42f68c89e9cf838e1c4929a39fd5223`
`Mr. CARDOZA — 27 July 2010`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Colonel Thomas C. 
Chapman as he is completing his post as the 29th District Commander of 
the Sacramento District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

Col. Chapman was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Army 
Corps of Engineers in 1984. His initial assignments were at Fort Knox, 
KY, with the 552nd Engineer Battalion, 194th Armor Brigade and 19th 
Engineer Battalion as Platoon Leader, Company Executive Officer and 
Battalion Assistant S3. Follow-on assignments included Battalion S4 and 
Company Commander with the 326th Engineer Battalion, 101st Airborne 
Division (Air Assault) at Fort Campbell and during Operations Desert 
Shield and Desert Storm. He was also Project Manager in the Chicago 
District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Staff Engineer for the 2nd 
Infantry Division at Camp Red Cloud, Korea; and Brigade Operations and 
Executive Officer at Ford Leonard Wood. Col. Chapman also served as 
Assistant Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army Maneuver Support Center and 
Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army Engineer School.

Col. Chapman commanded the Philadelphia District of the U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers from July 2002 to July 2004. Before coming to the 
Sacramento District in 2007, he also was Assistant Corps Engineer for 
the NATO Rapid Deployment Corps in Italy, which included serving as 
Chief Engineer for NATO's International Security Assistance Force in 
Afghanistan.

Col. Chapman holds a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering 
from the United States Military Academy and a master of science degree 
in civil engineering from the Illinois Institute of Technology. He is a 
graduate of the U.S. Army Ranger, Airborne and Air Assault courses, the 
Engineer Officer Basic and Advanced courses, the U.S. Army Command and 
General Staff College, and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces 
where he earned a master of science degree in national resource 
strategy. He is a registered professional engineer in Virginia.

Through my professional work with Col. Chapman, I found him to be a 
consummate public servant dedicated to mission of the Corps and to 
seeing progress on several flood control projects of utmost importance 
to my congressional district. I am honored to recognize his service and 
call him my friend. I wish him continued success and happiness in his 
future.

Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring Colonel 
Thomas C. Chapman for his efforts and dedication to the Sacramento 
District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
