---
---

# HONORING ALPHA COMPANY 641
## `a44f38bc8a254bb233a48d8b8da8bee9`
`Mr. SMITH — 20 May 2008`

---


Mr. SMITH. Mr. President, Alpha Company, 641 Aviation Regiment is an 
Army National Guard company that operates C-23 Sherpa cargo airplanes. 
Headquartered in Portland, OR, the company has detachments in Oklahoma, 
Washington, and South Dakota. Commanded by MAJ David Doran, the company 
consists of 44 soldiers and 10 C-23 airplanes. The Oregon soldiers that 
are part of the company hail from all around the State of Oregon: 
Portland, Salem, Pendleton, McMinnville, La Pine, Hermiston, and 
Dallas. The company deployed to Iraq from October 2007 to May 2008.

The story of Alpha Company, 641 Aviation Regiment is as complex as 
the 44 personalities that comprise the company. It is a mixture of 
experienced combat veterans on their second or third tour and young and 
eager soldiers experiencing their first deployment. The youngest is 21; 
the oldest is 54. There are married fathers and unmarried bachelors. 
There are full-time guardsmen and traditional National Guard, who split 
time as electricians, students, civilian aviators, and aspiring 
attorneys. Identifying with ''Ducks,'' ''Beavers,'' ''Huskies,'' and 
''Sooners,'' the dynamics of this hodgepodge is sometimes surprising, 
generally humorous, and always fascinating.

From Oregon to Oklahoma and Washington to South Dakota, the soldiers 
in this company have interacted with individuals from all across the 
country, with equal parts of Midwest know-how and Northwest can-do. As 
a result, those from Oregon have learned the right way to eat grits, 
and those from Oklahoma have learned 20 different words to describe 
''coffee.'' Each person in this company has brought a unique 
perspective and fresh batch of life experiences to share with the 
group. Everyday, a new story begins with ''back when I was a kid . . 
.'' or ''on my last deployment . . .'' This company brought together a 
cross section of America, fresh with an unflinching sense of duty, 
deep-seated pride in their job, and an unquenchable drive to get that 
job done.

Alpha Company operates the C-23 Sherpa, which is the least understood 
and most underestimated aircraft in the Army inventory. With its boxy 
dimensions, it has assumed the moniker ''BOX CAR.'' As unsightly and 
unusual as it may be, pound for pound and passenger for passenger, this 
rat-nosed aircraft has moved more parts and people around Iraq than 
most other military airframes. The crews who fly the Sherpa will tell 
you that what it lacks in looks, it makes up for in dependability. The 
Sherpa is the unsung, unappreciated, and unassuming aircraft that gets 
it done, around the clock. Whether it is a box of widgets or 14 
soldiers going out on R&R leave, this aircraft and its crews make it 
happen.

In October 2007, Alpha Company mustered and deployed to Balad Air 
Base in


Iraq. The unit quickly assumed the mission and took over all Army 
fixed-wing cargo operations under Multi-National Forces-Iraq. This 
expansive support covered Mosul, Kirkuk, and Basra, in addition to a 
dozen smaller air bases throughout the country. From passengers to 
blood to ammunition, Alpha Company flew six aircraft per day to get as 
much moved as possible. This amounted to two aircraft above and beyond 
the mission requirement. Alpha Company implemented the first fully 
standardized night vision goggle flight program, greatly increasing 
aircrew survivability by operating in hours of darkness. This also 
enhanced the performance capabilities of the C-23 by operating in 
generally cooler temperatures.

The company's support of Other Coalition Forces-Iraq, OCF-I; Special 
Operations, was instrumental in the timely transportation of sensitive 
cargo and detained personnel. The company increased existing support by 
100 percent and developed mission support into Baghdad. This mission 
had not existed prior to Alpha Company's arrival. It filled a crucial 
gap in aviation support for OCF-I and was pivotal to ongoing combat 
operations. LTG Stanley McChrystal, head of special operations in Iraq, 
cited the unit for their dependable and outstanding service to OCF-I.

In April 2008, the unit surged to increase its operational tempo by 
100 percent to support combat operations in and around Basra. During 
the 2 weeks at the height of the operation, Alpha Company flew 377 
hours, more hours than ever recorded by a C-23 company in a 2-week 
period. By the end of April, the company was preparing to redeploy back 
to home-stations, families, and loved ones. For their meritorious 
performance of duty and courage over the dangerous skies of Iraq, the 
company earned 4 Bronze Star Medals, 7 Meritorious Service Medals and 
38 Air Medals. During their 6 months in Iraq, the company flew over 
4,000 flight hours, moved over 9,000,000 pounds of cargo and over 
20,000 passengers, more than any other C-23 company in a 6-month period 
since the start of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Alpha Company's accomplishments are extraordinary and truly 
reflective of the distinguished service and dedication of America's 
citizen soldier. The State of Oregon is profoundly proud and deeply 
grateful for their sacrifice and commitment. It is with great pride 
that I honor their service today and enter their accomplishment into 
the Record.
