# None
## `a46264513047e316cdab00b03edc39dc`
`Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania — 22 April 2008`

---


Mr. PATRICK J. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to 
rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 322, celebrating the 60th 
anniversary of the State of Israel.

Last summer, I was fortunate enough to visit Israel for the first 
time. For me as a practicing Catholic, it was a humbling experience to 
walk the same streets that Jesus walked over 2,000 years ago. Israel is 
a Jewish state, but Jerusalem is at the center of three world religions 
and when I was there, I felt like I was among friends.

I know first hand how badly America needs allies and friends in the 
Middle East. Having served in Iraq, I understand how important the 
Israeli-American relationship is. They are our most important ally and 
one of our great friends. They are our partners in peace and in war. 
And while we do not shrink from the fight against terrorism, we also 
recognize that this global battle is one that cannot be won without 
diplomacy.

The 60th anniversary of Israel's founding is a landmark moment. In 
her brief history, great soldiers, noble statesmen and women and 
inspiring leaders have made history by refusing to back down in the 
face of great adversity.

As we celebrate this historic day, we must also take time to remember 
those that have fallen in her defense. Brave men like my fellow 
paratrooper and fellow Pennsylvanian Michael Levin. Michael's story 
serves as an inspiration to me as he embodied and personified the 
values that America and Israel hold in common: Loyalty, honor and 
sacrifice. He left the comforts of America to serve in the Israeli 
Defense Force--and he died protecting the country and the people he 
loved. Americans and Israelis alike will always remember his courage 
and keep his memory in our hearts.

Today is also a day where we must pray for those Israeli soldiers 
being held captive by Israel's enemies. As a former soldier myself, my 
thoughts and prayers are with Gilad Shalit, Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad 
Regev and their families. We pray for their safety and hope for their 
swift return.

Mr. Speaker, this significant moment is a time where we should also 
pray for peace and understanding around the world--but especially in 
the Middle East. We pray that in the near future, Israel and her 
neighbors will live side-by-side in peace and that no more lives will 
be lost in this needless cycle of violence and hate.

I am proud to stand with my colleagues in Congress and all of the 
families in my district as we pledge to always support efforts to 
maintain Israel's identity as a Jewish state with secure borders. We 
also commit ourselves to work diligently towards the creation of a 
viable and independent Palestinian state, living in peace alongside of 
Israel.

Mr. Speaker, Israel is truly one of our greatest allies and most 
trusted friends. She stands as a beacon of democratic values in a 
region of the world where those values are largely absent. Today, we 
celebrate the friendship that exists between our two Nations and look 
forward to strengthening and expanding our bond in the future.