# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 6275, ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX  RELIEF ACT OF 2008
## `a469ce9b9b06064334b474e8b0c5d71b`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont â€” 25 June 2008`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, my friend from Texas characterizes a bill that will 
provide tax relief to 25 million Americans as a tax increase, and it is 
just flat out wrong. There are 25 million Americans. These are folks 
who earn between $40,000, $50,000, $60,000 a year, who, if we do not 
pass this legislation, will find themselves essentially being the 
target of legislation that was intended in 1969 to have millionaires 
pay their fair share.

We are talking about soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who 
get a job as a police officer or as a carpenter. We are talking about 
some our school teachers all across the country. We are talking about 
sanitation workers who are struggling hard on $40,000 or $50,000 a 
year, oftentimes with two people in that family who are working, 
raising three or four kids. We are saying in this legislation that we 
are going to protect you, because we know you need to have that money 
to pay your bills.

We also have to level with the American people. This is going to be 
$61 billion in tax relief for those incredibly hard-working Americans 
who are getting clobbered by these $4-plus gas prices. They can't fill 
up their tank. They have got cars or SUVs or trucks that they have to 
drive, and they don't have the money to get something that is a little 
bit more fuel efficient. A lot of them have long commutes. This 
legislation is going to give them the opportunity to keep a little bit 
more money in their pocket so they can make it from one end of the week 
to the other and can pay their bills.

Now, the question is for this Congress, do we pay for it, or do we 
put it on the credit card? As to what my friend from Texas is 
characterizing as a tax increase, let me go through it, because I think 
Americans have a commitment to fairness, and I think Americans know a 
very commonsense proposition, and that is we have all got to bear the 
burden. We all have to pay our share of the load.

There are two very glaring situations in the Tax Code, and attention 
should be paid to them, and it is overdue. One is this hedge fund 
exemption, where folks who make an awful lot of money pay at a capital 
gains rate. What is unfair about it? If you are a financial advisor, if 
you or I ask someone to help us figure how to invest our money, we pay 
them a fee, and of whatever earnings they get, they pay a regular tax 
rate just like any other American. Whatever that rate is--15, 20, 35 
percent--that is what they pay.

If you are a hedge fund executive and you make billions, because of 
this provision in the Tax Code, which I am calling a loophole, they get 
to pay at a 15 percent rate. That is costing the treasury billions of 
dollars, and it is also a glaring unfairness, because you literally 
have a situation where the hedge fund manager who is doing the same 
work as another financial advisor down the street pays one rate, 15 
percent, while the other person doing the same work, working just as 
hard but who is perhaps making less money, pays 35 percent.

You also have this bizarre situation where the person making this 
immense amount of money pays a much lower tax rate than the secretary, 
than the back office help in that very same firm. I think most 
Americans see a basic fairness, and let's have the income tax rate 
apply to earned income. That is what this provision does.

The second question is on the oil company exemption, and I am using 
the word ''loophole.'' What is a ''loophole''? I think, commonly, you 
know it when you see it. What a ''loophole'' is in this case is giving 
taxpayer benefit to very successful companies that do very well in what 
they do--explore for oil, sell it. We are taking money from the 
taxpayers of America to give it to major American and foreign oil 
companies. These are mature industries that are making hundreds of 
billions of dollars, and they don't need taxpayer help.

So this legislation provides 25 million Americans with tax relief, 
and it is the folks who need it. It asks other Americans, the hedge 
fund executives, to pay at the income tax rate, and it has oil 
companies foregoing what has been an incredibly good deal--tax credits 
that they get at the expense of the American taxpayer.

I urge a ''yes'' vote on the previous question and on the rule.