---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `a46fc55f2f5330df4a3f238d87599ecb`
`Mr. ROSS — 13 March 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. Let me just say there are those in this Congress that do 
not support sending $12 million an hour to


Iraq, then you are unpatriotic. I differ with that. I strongly differ 
with it. No one needs to question my patriotism, no one needs to 
question my support for our men and women in uniform.

If you ask me, giving them more of the same is not showing support 
for our men and women in uniform. They need a new direction. They need 
a new direction in Iraq, one that will allow them to do their job and 
come back home to their families. The President proposing a surge of 
some 21,000 troops is not a new direction, it is more of the same.

At the same time, Madam Speaker, let me tell you that the other thing 
that the American people want is they want responsibility. They want 
responsibility by the Iraqi government. They want them to buy into 
this.

The other thing the American people want is accountability within our 
own government, which is clearly why we are advocating the passage of 
the Iraqi War Accountability Act, H.R. 97. Why is it needed? Because 
auditors in one region found that contract managers could not account 
for $97 million disbursed from the development fund for Iraq. Under its 
no-bid contract to rebuild Iraq's oil infrastructure contract, 
Halliburton overcharged by over 600 percent for the delivery of fuel 
from Kuwait.

An audit of programs designed to train guards designed to protect 
Iraq's oil and electrical infrastructure concluded that U.S. agencies 
could not provide reasonable assurance that $147 million expended under 
these programs was used for its intended purpose.

In one case, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 
found that a company which was awarded a security management contract 
worth hundreds of millions of dollars could provide no assurance that 
it was providing the best possible safety for government and 
reconstruction personnel as required by the contract, and could not 
even show that its employees authorized to carry weapons were trained 
to use those weapons.

Finally, Halliburton tripled the cost of hand towels at taxpayer 
expense by insisting on having its own embroidered logo on each towel. 
You can't make this stuff up. Halliburton employees dumped 50,000 
pounds of nails in the desert because they ordered the wrong size all 
at taxpayers' expense. This is not supporting our troops.

We want to fund our troops. We want to support our troops, and the 
way to do that is by requiring more accountability by this 
administration and the Pentagon. Quite frankly, for the last 6 years, 
Congress has not fulfilled its constitutionally given duty of providing 
oversight. It has been a rubber stamp for whatever this administration 
wants.

Those days are over, the new Congress has arrived, and we are going 
to begin to provide that oversight and accountability and demand 
responsibility, not only from this administration, but from the Iraqis 
through the passage of H.R. 97.