---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS  ACT, 2008
## `a4713a39eed8c5ef46f868ddaaa3898a`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 8 November 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 806 provides for consideration of 
the conference report for H.R. 3222, the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2008.

Mr. Speaker, this is one of the important parts that I hope will 
answer some questions here. The rule is the standard conference report 
rule which waives all points of order against the conference report and 
against its consideration and provides that the conference report shall 
be considered as read.

However, I want to point out that although the rule waives all points 
of order, the conference report does not violate either House 
Resolution 491 or clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI which require earmarks to 
be disclosed in the conference report and requiring conference reports 
to be in compliance with the PAYGO rule.

Mr. Speaker, this morning I visited the family of a critically 
injured soldier at Bethesda Naval Medical Center, and I was reminded 
once again of a sign that stood outside a VA hospital in my former 
district, a sign that read, ''The price of liberty is visible here.''

This Monday, we will pay tribute to our brave men and women in 
uniform and remember that they truly are our country's greatest heroes. 
We must, therefore, do all we can to make certain that they receive the 
care and benefits that they have earned and the respect and recognition 
they deserve, not just today, but every single day.

I am proud to bring to the floor the 2008 Department of Defense 
Appropriations legislation and a continuing resolution, the product of 
many months of hard work.

In that spirit, Mr. Speaker, this legislation is a smart and 
compassionate way to strengthen America's security and provide what is 
necessary for our troops.

We do so by investing in the safety and protection of our service men 
and women both at home and abroad, while providing them with the tools 
that are necessary to defend our country. This bill also invests in 
quality health care for military personnel and works to expand our 
Armed Forces to meet ever-changing threats to our national security.

The bill also determines how we as a Nation will spend our 
considerable resources, both at home and abroad, in order to best 
protect our fellow Americans, our shared values, and our common 
interests.

This agreement between the House and Senate prioritizes the 
preparation and safety of our Nation's men and women in uniform and, 
thus, honors our commitment to our military. It is a definitive 
statement that we will properly equip our troops before they deploy, 
provide them with support as they serve in harm's way, and ensure their 
dignified treatment upon their return.

To accomplish that goal, this bill provides $459 billion for the 
Department of Defense, a $39.7 billion or a 9.5 percent increase from 
2007. The money allows us to invest in equipment, in training, and 
cutting-edge weaponry. Most importantly, however, it restores balance 
to our ground forces that are badly overstretched by 5 years of war and 
multiple extended deployments.

Make no mistake, our commitment to our fighting men and women does 
not end on the battlefield. It is our responsibility to ensure that 
each one is properly covered upon their return home. And I am proud to 
say that this bill does exactly that, by adding $70 million to fund 
programs authorized under the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors 
Act and providing $23.5 billion for defense health programs, which I 
must stress, is nearly $1 billion more than the President's request. 
And it is long overdue. Far too many veterans are left without the 
treatment that they need or have to wait far too long.

The dual wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have placed an unimaginable 
strain on our military that will take many years to repair. To help 
remedy this problem, the conference report helps grow the military, 
including 7,000 new members of the Army, 5,000 new marines, and 1,300 
new Army Guard to begin to help repair this strain.

It also fully funds a 3.5 percent pay increase for all 
servicemembers, and


while that is not nearly enough when low-level Blackwater contractors 
make as much money as four-star generals, it is a step forward.

Mr. Speaker, earlier this week, six U.S. soldiers were killed in 
three separate attacks across Iraq. Those tragic losses brought the 
number of U.S. soldiers killed to more than 850 this year, making 2007 
the deadliest year of the war in Iraq. Let me repeat that. This year, 
the fifth year of combat in Iraq, is deadlier than any of the years 
that preceded it.

I would be remiss if I did not mention a New York Times article on a 
secret Pentagon study that found, and I hope everybody absorbs this, a 
secret study found that 80 percent of the marines who died of upper-
body wounds in Iraq could have survived if they had been deployed with 
better body armor.

I was so deeply troubled by reports like these that I asked the 
Department of Defense's inspector general to investigate the Pentagon's 
procurement of both vehicle and body armor. The first report issued in 
July was heartbreaking in its tales of a manufacturer that was unable 
to produce the number of MRAP vehicles that it had committed to in its 
contract with DOD; ultimately, without doubt, costing some soldiers 
their very lives.

As we await the second report from the Pentagon on body armor 
procurement practices, the former CEO of one of those body armor 
manufacturers, David Brooks, was indicted on multiple counts of fraud 
by the United States Attorneys in eastern New York. He is accused of 
having enriched himself to the tune of over $180 million at the expense 
of the safety of our Armed Forces. I await the report from the 
inspector general on how that contract was given. It is unconscionable.

I am relieved to say in light of these findings, the conference 
report fittingly directs $11.6 billion to the procurement of MRAP 
vehicles and increases funding for the body armor and other protective 
equipment which I hope will be closely monitored by this Congress which 
is trying so hard to keep up with some oversight that has been missing 
for over 6 years.

The conference report today also provides all of those deploying, 
deployed, and returning with the resources that they, their families, 
and our veterans need to sustain them through a time of war. But all of 
the body armor in the world, all of the MRAPs, cannot stop the violence 
in Iraq and prevent the casualties and deaths of our young men and 
women facing combat in Iraq.

It is my fervent hope and desire that we can bring our troops home 
before next year becomes the deadliest year in this tragic war.

As we face troubles abroad, Mr. Speaker, we here at home are 
constantly reminded of the toll that the war in Iraq is taking on our 
national security. The dire shortage of National Guard equipment was 
underscored these past few weeks as America watched with horror the 
wildfires devastating Southern California.

The San Francisco Chronicle reported in May that only half of 
California's National Guard equipment was available because much of it, 
almost a billion dollars' worth, had been left in Iraq.

In my home State of New York, the National Guard is operating with 40 
percent of its equipment and only 35 percent of its trucks and 
authorized vehicles. Simply put, we cannot afford to continue 
shortchanging our domestic priorities.

To help put our priorities and Nation back in order, Mr. Speaker, 
today we will provide $500 million to respond to the California 
wildfires, along with allocating $2.9 billion to FEMA for continued 
disaster relief efforts and $3 billion for the ''Road Home'' program to 
assist people who are still searching for homes damaged by Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita.

Additionally, we add $980 million for the National Guard and Reserve 
to replenish their equipment which has become so strained due to our 
conflicts abroad.

Mr. Speaker, let us honor the service of our troops, their families, 
and America's veterans by passing this conference report and fulfilling 
our commitment to those who sacrifice so much.

I hope my colleagues will use the upcoming Veterans Day to reflect on 
what kind of an America they wish to create for future generations. And 
it is my hope that we in Congress take the question very seriously in 
the coming months and years ahead.

I have faith in this body, just as I have faith in this Nation, that 
we will possess the wisdom to do what is right and the courage to right 
what is wrong. The future of our national security depends on it.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.