# IRAQ AND RELATED ISSUES
## `a472fba1720996f45ac13a326181789f`
`Mr. BOND — 30 January 2007`

---


Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about Iraq and Iraq-
related issues. I had the opportunity this past weekend and the 
previous weekend to spend a good deal of time with the Missouri 
National Guard men and women in Missouri who do a great job in 
providing civil response to tremendous problems, whether it is floods 
or tornadoes or, in some instances, an ice storm that was devastating. 
Many of them have been to Iraq and Afghanistan and are going back, and 
they are proud of what they do. They know they are doing the job the 
military was assigned to do, and they are proud of it and we should 
support them.

Mr. President, it is noteworthy that I mention again my colleague and 
National Guard Caucus Cochair Senator Pat Leahy and I will reintroduce 
the National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act 
later today.

This comprehensive legislation recognizes the paramount contributions 
that our citizen soldiers and airmen have made not only in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, but all over the globe and particularly here at home.

The bill provides four central planks: the elevation of the Guard 
chief to the rank of general, a seat for the chief of the Guard Bureau 
on the Joint Chiefs of Staff; mandates that the Deputy NorthCom 
position be for an eligible National Guard officer; and it allows for 
the National Guard Bureau to identify and validate equipment 
requirements, particularly those unique to the Guard's homeland 
missions.

When we went after the terrorists in Afghanistan, the Guard was 
there. When we needed to establish order and stability in Iraq, the 
Guard was there. When Hurricanes Katrina and Rita devastated the Gulf 
Coast, the Guard was there. When a natural or man-made disaster 
strikes, the Governors call on the Guard, and the Guard is there. The 
next time America needs military forces overseas, the Guard will be 
there.

Unfortunately, when the Pentagon makes key decisions that impact the 
Guard, the Guard is still not there.

The need to empower the National Guard is not only still there but 
grows each day. We need to give the Guard more bureaucratic muscle, so 
that the force will not be continually pushed around in policy and 
budget debates within the Pentagon.

Time and time again, the National Guard has had to rely on the 
Congress, not its total force partners in the active duty, to provide 
and equip fully the resources it needs to fulfill its missions.

Our legislation will end this nonsense. We will put the National 
Guard on an equal footing with other decision makers responsible for 
national security and the transformation of the military forces.

As GEN Steve Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau put it, they 
need to be ''in the huddle'' at the Pentagon if they are to be in the 
game. This will ensure that the next time the 430,000 National Guard 
citizen-soldiers and airmen of the Guard are discussed at the senior 
levels of the Pentagon, the Guard will be there.

Additionally, I remind my colleagues that the Fiscal Year 2007 
Military Construction and Quality of Life Appropriations bill was not 
passed into law. As a result, approximately $17 billion in new 
construction and BRAC projects authorized by the Congress in 2007 
cannot proceed.

The military service chiefs have urged the Congress to pass this 
legislation

The projects funded by the Fiscal Year 2007 MILCON bill are necessary 
to sustain readiness and quality of life for U.S. service personnel. I 
also ask that letter from the Navy and Army Secretaries and Service 
Chiefs that raise concern about the risk by operating under a 
continuing resolution be printed in the Record.

I ask unanimous consent that letters in support of this legislation 
be printed in the Record.