---
---

# COMMENDING THE MEMBERS OF THE NEVADA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AND AIR  NATIONAL GUARD
## `a4731149424b26744e940e73dc0a92a7`
`Mr. ELLSWORTH — 30 July 2008`

---


Mr. ELLSWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I consume.

I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 358 which commends 
the members of the Nevada Reserve components for their service to the 
State of Nevada and the United States of America.

More than 1,600 brave members of Nevada's Army and Army Air National 
Guard have been deployed as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom and 
Operation Enduring Freedom since May of 2003. In addition, more than 
1,500 Nevada residents have been mobilized as members of the Army 
Reserve, Navy Reserve, Air Force Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, and 
Coast Guard Reserve. The courageous servicemen and women of Nevada come 
closest to embodying the motto of their great State, ''All for our 
country.''

These heroes risk their lives and make tremendous personal sacrifices 
to protect our Nation and our freedom. Many have served extended tours 
of duty in active combat zones or provided invaluable support to our 
forces abroad. Beyond their military role, these men and women assume a 
myriad of responsibilities on behalf of our communities. From fighting 
wildfires to civic support, from drug enforcement, to search and 
rescue, it is their dedication and professionalism which we honor 
today.

Take the members of 1st Battalion, 221st Cavalry, operating out of 
Las Vegas, who added a distinguished new chapter to their unit's rich 
history--dating back to the early days of the Nevada Territory--with 
their service in Iraq from May 2006 to July 2007. Or consider the 
invaluable support of the men and women of the 321st Signal Company, 
based in Reno, who operated and maintained crucial digital 
communications equipment during their deployment to Kuwait and Iraq 
from December of 2003 to March of 2005. We honor them.

Consider the 777th Engineer Company, deployed to Kuwait from May of 
2003 to 2004, and the 1864th Transportation Company, deployed to Kuwait 
from July 2004 to November 2005. We pay tribute to D Company, 113th 
Aviation, who brought their experience of desert conditions in the 
Sierra Nevada to their trials in Afghanistan from January of 2005 to 
June of 2006, and to Detachment 45, Operational Support Airlift, 
deployed to Kuwait from February to October 2005.

We thank the members of the 593rd Transportation Company out of 
Stead, Nevada, who braved IEDs and ambushes in Iraq from July 2006 to 
October 2007. They were joined in Iraq by the men and women of the 
140th Military Police Detachment, based in Henderson, Nevada, who 
deployed from February to April, 2008. Much needed support was provided 
by the 152nd Airlift Wing and 152nd Intelligence Squadron, deployed to 
Iraq from September of 2005 to 2006, and again from February 2007 to 
March 2008. And, finally, the members of the 232nd Operations Squadron, 
based in Las Vegas, Nevada, who are currently deployed as part of 
ongoing operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.

These brave men and women have answered the call of their country, 
their State, and their community with honor, bravery, and great skill. 
Their sacrifices, through extended and repeated deployments far from 
families and loved ones, deserve our highest respect and our deepest 
gratitude.

I therefore trust you shall join me in support of this resolution, a 
small token of our heartfelt thanks.

I reserve the balance of my time.