---
---

# SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a4765b1b2674918177eb7ee74994d646`
`Mr. PENCE — 15 May 2008`

---


Mr. PENCE. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, unlike the previous speaker from Illinois, whom I 
greatly respect, I support the war in Iraq. I have supported it from 
the beginning. I support providing the resources to our soldiers who 
are in the fight in Iraq and Afghanistan. I pray for some 3,000 Indiana 
soldiers who are on the ground in Operation Iraqi Freedom every day. 
But though I support providing our soldiers with the resources they 
need to get the job done and come home safe, I cannot support this war 
supplemental bill.

Mr. Speaker, I believe the American people need to know what is going 
on here. I mean, this is a backroom deal for $250 billion that includes 
$72 billion in domestic spending that has nothing whatsoever to do with 
our soldiers and the war on terror. It also will increase taxes on 
working families by $51 billion. Higher taxes and higher domestic 
spending put on the backs of our soldiers is indecent, Mr. Speaker.



When my colleague from Illinois speaks about decency, it is indecent 
to come to this floor and play politics with our troops during a time 
of war. This Congress should bring a clean supplemental bill to this 
floor that provides our soldiers with the resources they need to get 
the job done and come home safe, not billions of dollars in domestic 
spending and higher taxes.

I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this legislation to reject 
playing politics with our troops in the field.