---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `a47cc63a3c6776fe0ee27d94060c2042`
`Mr. WARNER — 27 March 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I thank my long-term friend, the 
distinguished Senator from Mississippi. We came to the Senate together 
some 29 years ago. I commend him for the leadership he has provided 
throughout his many years and, particularly, on this coming vote, which 
is most important--not just to the Senate but to the whole Congress and 
to the people of the United States and to the world. I strongly support 
the amendment of the Senator from Mississippi, Mr. Cochran.

Some many weeks ago, shortly after January 10, when the President 
announced his new strategy for a surge, I was among those few voices on 
this side that expressed concern about that initiative. I believed that 
this Nation had invested so heavily in Iraq, in life, in limb, and an 
extraordinary amount of money, much of that having been spent on the 
training of the Iraqi security forces, and that the time had come for 
those security forces to bear the brunt of the battle. Our group, 
having drawn up a resolution, endeavored to try to get it debated, but 
the record shows that opportunity, and the opportunity to vote on it, 
was not given. But that is history.

At this time, however, I believe the operations of our troops under 
the new strategy are well underway. We have many men and women of our 
Armed Forces in harm's way, and we must be very cautious as to the 
message we send at this time.

Mr. President, I say most respectfully that with this current draft 
we are trying to strike out the language that, if allowed to stand, 
would send a sound all over the world. It would be the bugle of 
retreat; it would be echoed and repeated from every minaret throughout 
Iraq: The coalition forces have decided to take the first step 
backward.

We cannot send that message at this time. I will be among those who 
will constantly challenge any aspect of the policies of this 
administration which I believe are not in the best interest. I have two 
amendments that, hopefully, will be considered in the context of the 
pending bill. One calls for an independent investigation--independent 
of the Department of Defense and all entities of the Federal 
Government--of the Iraqi security forces, principally the army and, to 
some extent, the police, to determine what the status is of those 
forces today.

What has been the result of the billions of dollars we have expended 
over 2/1/2/ years to train and equip them? Are they now, or in the 
immediate future, able to carry the burden of this fight to enable the 
people and the Government of Iraq to have greater security and 
eventually achieve the goals and the full reins of a democracy?

The other amendment I have calls for a table of benchmarks and a 
reporting sequence from our administration as to whether the Iraqis are 
or are not meeting those benchmarks because any option laid down is 
dependent on the capability of the Iraqi security forces. Early reports 
in the engagements thus far indicate that, in some measures, they have 
met the commitments they made to have sent battalions, to have engaged 
with such limited aggression that has been brought against them in the 
course of this surge and against the coalition forces. Nevertheless, it 
is the American forces that are primarily in the lead, primarily in the 
support role and carrying the greater burden of this battle.

So at this time I do not think it is wise to sound that bugle, that 
sound of retreat. Think of the consequences if that nation implodes and 
fractures and the Government and all of the gains that we have gotten 
thus far are lost. Think of the consequences on, for example, the 
potential for other energy sources to be developed in that region--
energy that is vital to the world, energy that must flow from that 
region through the Straits of Hormuz that could be jeopardized if there 
is a convulsion among the border states and the spreading of the 
anarchy that could simply flow from this most distressed land of 
uncertainty we call Iraq, this situation that is so fragile at this 
time.

So I urge my colleagues, with no disrespect to those who put this in 
the bill, to support the Cochran amendment.

Mr. President, while I have the floor, I simply ask unanimous consent 
to send a modification to the desk for an amendment filed, No. 698.