---
---

# None
## `a47ce3a2a1ff81960bddd571dc7d5673`
`Mr. LATHAM — 23 July 2007`

---


Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Indiana for 
recognition and for the kind words. I appreciate that very much. The 
gentlewoman from Texas, thank you for your support. And I want to thank 
Chairman Conyers and Ranking Member Smith for working together to bring 
this very important resolution to the floor quickly after it was 
introduced.

I also want to thank Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton 
and Ranking Member Hunter for their valuable input on this resolution 
and important work on this issue.

Many servicemembers who are single parents rely upon grandparents or 
other caretakers to care for their children while they are deployed. If 
the servicemember is tragically killed in action, these caretakers are 
left without access to the death gratuity payment to help raise the 
servicemember's children.

I am grateful that the House and Senate Armed Services Committees 
have addressed this issue, including in the 2008 defense authorization 
bill provisions allowing servicemembers to begin designating caretakers 
as recipients of all or part of the death gratuity as we go forward. 
However, it is important that we also consider those families that have 
already been affected by the situation, which is the purpose of this 
resolution today.

There have been as many as 143 recent cases where minor children were 
the recipients of the death gratuity which they cannot access until 
reaching the age of 18. In some of these cases, such as the one 
involving the Jaenke family from Iowa Falls, Iowa, in my district, the 
fallen servicemember left specific written instructions that part of 
the death gratuity be used to care for her daughter. Naval Petty 
Officer 2nd Class Jamie Jaenke, who was tragically killed by a roadside 
bomb in Iraq last summer, was survived by her 9-year-old daughter 
Kayla, who is being cared for by her grandparents. Kayla's family has 
experienced countless financial hardships as a result of not having 
access to the death benefits for the purposes that Jamie intended.

While the situation may not affect a large number of families, the 
bottom line is I believe the wishes of our servicemembers with respect 
to their death benefits should be honored.

Our Nation will be forever grateful for Jamie's dedication and 
service and the sacrifice she has made for our Nation. It is a 
fundamental duty of Congress to ensure that the children of fallen 
servicemembers, like Kayla, are cared for. We owe this to our 
servicemembers who have made the ultimate sacrifice. Mr. Speaker, I 
urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I urge the Senate to 
act in a


quick manner to resolve this unfortunate situation.

