# None
## `a482590b3a55244434b8389ad5a533d7`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 1 May 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I appreciate that, and I think you are exactly 
right. There was a misrepresentation of the facts of the legislation 
that was put forth to the White House. I think it's important for us, 
for us to go over in a snapshot of what the supplemental bill did that 
the President just vetoed.

What this bill did was increase by $1.7 billion the amount of money 
that was going to defense health care for the troops. What it did was 
it increased veterans spending by $1.7 billion above what the President 
wanted. We tried to make law the benchmarks that the President set up 
for progress in Iraq on January 10, his benchmarks, and he vetoed that.

Now, the President is vetoing his own statements, if that is not 
confusing enough. The key component of this piece of legislation is the 
piece that says that our troops can't leave here and go to Iraq if they 
don't have the proper body armor, if they don't have the proper 
equipment, if they don't have Humvees that are up armored, and if they 
don't have the amount of rest that they need. That is what the 
President just vetoed.

I think this is a pretty sad day in American history when you have 
the President of the United States trying to win a PR battle and using 
the troops as hostage. Those are not my words, those are the words of 
General Paul Eaton, who just said, after the statement, this is what he 
is saying on the President's veto, ''This administration and the 
previously Republican controlled legislature have been the most caustic 
agents against America's Armed Forces in memory. Less than a year ago, 
the Republicans imposed great hardship on the Army and the Marine Corps 
by their failure to pass the necessary funding language. This time, the 
President of the United States is holding our Soldiers hostage to his 
ego. More than ever apparent, only the Army and the Marine Corps are at 
war--alone--without their President's support.''

Terrorism around the globe is up 25 percent. Stop doing what you are 
doing to make terrorism increase by 25 percent. Enough of the scare 
tactics that if we don't fight them there, they are going to come here 
and get us. The same scare tactics that they have been trying to employ 
for the past 5 years, this is the same group of people who told us, as 
was stated earlier, that the oil money would be used for 
reconstruction, it would only cost $50 billion, and now we are upwards 
of some $500 and some billion after the 2008 budget, going to be 
greeted as liberators. All of the statements that have been made in the 
past 5 years have been wrong, colossal mistakes.

The same people that said the mission was accomplished are the same 
people that are now telling us we don't want any timetables, we don't 
want any deadlines, we don't want any goals for when we maybe should 
possibly, at some point, get out of Iraq and redeploy out. We don't 
want any of that. They expect, after all these mistakes, all of these 
blunders, that somehow we are going to trust them.

I am sorry, but you know what? Between now and when the President 
decides it's time to get out, how many more soldiers are we going to 
lose? How many more kids are we going to go up and see at Walter Reed 
who have brain injuries and post-traumatic stress?

That's the difference between today and a year from now. That's the 
difference between a deadline and an open-ended war, kids getting 
killed and innocent Iraqis getting killed. You know, I think that this 
is the height of arrogance that this veto showed by the President.