---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a4a074703c2f5d1b7bc5fbd77e603379`
`Mr. McCOTTER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, he was conscientious, committed to peace and momentarily 
praised. His laurels burned in the bombings. His valorous and vain 
efforts had but hastened upon his people.

Yet, in eulogizing this ''English worthy,'' Sir Winston Churchill, an 
ardent opponent of the deceased's policy of appeasement, unexpectedly 
struck a conciliatory chord toward the late Neville Chamberlain:

''It is not given to human beings, happily for them, for otherwise 
life would be intolerable, to foresee or to predict to any large extent 
the unfolding course of events. In one phase, men seem to have been 
right, in another they seem to have been wrong. Then again, a few years 
later when the perspective of time is lengthened, all stands in a 
different setting. There is a new proportion. There is another scale of 
values. History, with its flickering lamp, stumbles along the trail of 
the past, trying to reconstruct its scenes, to revive its echoes, and 
kindle with pale gleams the passion of former days. What is the worth 
of all this? The only guide to a man is his conscience; the only shield 
to his memory is the rectitude and sincerity of his actions. It is very 
imprudent to walk through life without this shield, because we are so 
often mocked by the failure of our hopes and the upsetting our 
calculations; but with this shield, however the fates may play, we 
march always in the ranks of honor.''

Mr. Speaker, while not serving in this Chamber during the debates on 
the resolution authorizing the President of the United States to use 
martial force to remove Iraq's Baathist regime for numerous just 
causes, including its refusal to honor its Gulf War cease-fire and 
United Nations' resolutions, during my time as a temporary custodian of 
my constituents' office, I have striven to ensure our Nation's victory 
in the battles for Iraq, Afghanistan, and in the overarching war on 
terror. In doing so for 3 years, I have four times traveled to Iraq and 
once to Afghanistan to meet with our troops; visited wounded citizen 
soldiers, eulogized our fallen, and consoled their grieving families. 
As a witness to their courage, sacrifice and suffering, I have been 
morally compelled to support every appropriation for our military and 
civilian personnel in harm's way, oppose every policy injurious to our 
country's common cause of victory; advance my own ideas on how to 
secure our victory, including the introduction of bipartisan, though 
ultimately unaccepted, legislation to establish concerted congressional 
oversight over the course of this conflict; and refused to condone a 
resolution by my Republican peers which failed to meet its duty; and, 
immediately afterwards, introduced a resolution of my own in order to 
fulfill my duty to our soldiers, my constituents, and our country.

As a staunch supporter of our Nation's mission in Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and throughout the world, I did so in the belief that it is morally 
imperative for every sovereign American citizen and their congressional 
servants to ensure our valiant troops victoriously come home to their 
loved ones' arms. Were I to do otherwise and lapse in my moral duty, I 
would not only be violating our troops and my constituents' trust, I 
would be violating the dictates of my conscience.

It is equally true, of course, how within this House other Members' 
dictates of conscience have led them to a decidedly different, though 
equally constant course of action. To these Members and their fellow 
citizens who have done so to date, I share the sentiments Sir Winston 
held for Neville Chamberlain: You are ''An American Worthy,'' who 
''however the fates may play, will ''march always in the ranks of 
honor.'' Yet, because the resolution thrust before us is a craven 
exposition of political expediency in a time of national crisis, today 
many may stray from the ranks of honor.

This resolution is ''nonbinding,'' which means the resolution has no 
force of law to compel future legislative acts in compliance with its 
dictates. In sum, then, this resolution legally changes nothing. 
Americans' money will still unabatedly facilitate our troops' continued 
deployment into harm's way, despite the United States Congress 
collectively condemning the President's announced troop reinforcement 
plan. This impotent resolution is injurious in the eyes of its 
opponents because it will undermine the morale


of our troops, their families, and our fellow citizens even as it 
heartens and emboldens our enemies; and this impotent resolution is 
injurious because it will not stop what many of its supporters purport 
will be a loss of life in a lost cause. By neither stopping the war nor 
speeding our victory and by calculatedly doing nothing in this time of 
national crisis, this resolution is immoral.

This immorality is manifest in how the resolution guilefully attempts 
to insinuate the United States Congress can simultaneously support our 
troops and oppose their mission. During a time of war, if an act is not 
i our national interest, such as the President's plan is deemed to be 
in this resolution, the act is injurious to the national interest. At 
best, the act will expend resources, most tragically claim lives 
without furthering the cause of victory. Better than anyone, our troops 
understand this. Therefore, this Congress does not support our troops 
when it proclaims they are risking their lives in a doomed mission 
injurious to America.


Yet, if Congress persists in this insanity, the Members must meet 
their responsibility to enumerate the reasons they disapprove of the 
President's plan and, in point of fact, the mission upon which our 
troops have already embarked. But this resolution does not provide any 
rationale for its conclusion. Thus, rather than deserving our 
collective concurrence, this resolution deserves our universal 
condemnation.

To this, some supporters will object and allege two defenses for this 
resolution's fatal omission. Do not these supporters' floor remarks 
provide the rationales sufficient to sustain this resolution? No. If 
floor remarks alone are sufficient to sustain the resolution's 
conclusions, then floor remarks alone would be sufficient to derogate 
the President's plan and, ergo, vitiate any necessity for a written 
resolution. Conversely, if it is imperative for the plan's detractors 
to express their opposition in a written resolution, it is also 
imperative to express their reasons in writing. Alas, such logic pales 
before some Members' impulsive muse of the moment.

Let us, then, move to some of the resolution's supporters' second, 
far more distressing defense: ''A vote of disapproval on the 
President's plan will set the stage for additional Iraq legislation 
which will be coming to the House floor.'' As no one who participated 
in the crafting of this covert legislative agenda has deigned to inform 
the American people as to its aims, one wonders if it will cut off 
funding for our troops in harm's way or cut off critical reconstruction 
funding in the supplemental appropriations bill, thus toppling an 
unheralded but essential pillar of the President's new victory strategy 
and proving the perspicacity of the present resolution. While we wonder 
and worry, according to newspaper reports there is a strategy to make 
this rumored legislative plan palatable to the public. This strategy's 
tactics, which its instigators are more than happy to relate to the 
media, are reputed to include a coordinated multimillion-dollar TV 
campaign by leftist special-interest pressure groups. No doubt 
somewhere beyond this ephemeral stream of time there lurks a jealous 
Clement Vallandigham. But, in fairness, let us disdain a priori 
speculation, and instead examine a previous resolution to glean the 
potentialities of the present resolution's supporters' secret 
legislative plan. The following passages are excerpted from a previous 
resolution which, albeit more forthrightly, also opposes the Commander 
in Chief's decisions:

''Resolved, That this convention does explicitly declare, as the 
sense of the American people, that after 4 years of failure . . . by 
the experiment of war, during which, under the pretense of a military 
necessity of war-power higher than the Constitution, the Constitution 
itself has been disregarded in every part, and public liberty and 
private right alike trodden down, and the material prosperity of the 
country essentially impaired, justice, humanity, liberty, and the 
public welfare demand that immediate efforts be made for cessation of 
hostilities . . . to the end that, at the earliest practicable moment, 
peace be restored.''

This previous resolution too expresses its support for our troops in 
harm's way:

''Resolved, That the sympathy of the Democratic Party is heartily and 
earnestly extended to the soldiery of our Army and sailors of our Navy 
who are and have been in the field and on the sea under the flag of our 
country, and in the events of its attaining power, they will receive 
all the care, protection, and regard that brave soldiers and sailors of 
the Republic have so nobly earned.''

This previous resolution is the Democratic Party platform of 1864.

If the past is prologue, let us be firm in a fair request: If the 
resolution's supporters possess a victory strategy, or otherwise, for 
Iraq, these public servants must immediately reveal it to the sovereign 
citizens of the United States. If these stealth strategists refuse, 
they will incur the American people's inference this legislative plan 
assumes and will hasten our Nation's defeat in Iraq. How else could one 
explain these individuals' already having a legislative plan and an 
accompanying media plan premised upon our troop reinforcement failure, 
and doing so regardless of potential American victories on the ground 
or the advice of our military commanders? Perhaps while they demur from 
revealing it, these anonymous commander in chiefs will dubiously coin 
their legislative plan an ''exit strategy.''



It is an irrelevant distinction. Right now the enemy is actively 
seeking to murder more American and Iraqi soldiers and civilians. So 
right now and for the immediate future, an exit from Iraq is a defeat 
in Iraq. Whatever one pretends to the contrary, one will never convince 
our enemies otherwise.

Yes, it is all too human to wish the world were different; all too 
human to rationalize away one's misguided actions. Being composed of 
frail, fallible human beings, even great assemblies such as this have 
succumbed to the temptation. We must not.

Writing well before Churchill's magnanimous eulogy of Chamberlain 
and, to the contrary, warning the British people's representatives how 
history was pitiless, George Dangerfield coldly assessed his national 
leaders' mismanagement of state affairs during the pre-Great War years 
of 1910 to 1914: ''Along that row of distinguished and original faces 
there would pass from time to time, as lightly as a shadow upon the 
waters, an alarming, an alien spirit, a spirit dangerous and 
indefinite, the Spirit of Whimsy . . . In the hush of crisis, in the 
tumult of abuse, or when the stuffy air of the Commons seemed almost to 
glitter with the shining, salt ripples of sarcasm, there it played, 
airy, remote, and irresponsible.''

Is an inchoate angst over history's final verdict the reason some 
supporters of this resolution have taken to this floor, though not in 
this resolution itself, and verbally professed three key defenses of 
their decision? One defense is they were misled into supporting an 
Iraqi regime change because of the false claim it did or might possess 
weapons of mass destruction. Mercifully, let us stipulate these elected 
officials performed their due diligence on the matter and, especially 
for our Democratic colleagues so situated, they did not overly trust 
the some many of them had accused of stealing a Presidential election.

Again, there were numerous justifiable reasons for authorizing the 
President of the United States to militarily execute a regime change in 
Iraq. As those reasons are written in that resolution, I will not dwell 
upon them, for they do not constitute the crux of the matter, which is 
this: the war aim of regime change was a success. It is the post-war 
failure of Iraqi reconstruction breeding our present perils.

Thus even if a Member of Congress can be excused for authorizing 
force on the basis of being ''misled,'' the Member of Congress cannot 
be excused for failing to demand adequate post-war reconstruction 
planning, nor for a 3-year failure to demand constructive changes to an 
inadequate post-war reconstruction plan.

Dovetailing with this defense, some of the resolution's supporters 
now claim their initial ardor for the regime change was a mistake 
because this administration has botched Iraqi reconstruction beyond 
salvaging and the fledgling democracy is now in a state of civil war. 
This argument has the


merit of being partially correct, for despite the hard-learned lessons 
of our Nation's former successes in doing so, this administration 
utterly failed to comprehend and implement the fundamental principles 
of reconstructing a defeated, belligerent nation. Importantly, this 
does not preclude reconstructing Iraq now.

While rife with sectarian violence, much of it instigated and 
perpetuated from external elements, Iraq is not in a civil war. 
Relative calm exists in most of the beleaguered nation's provinces, and 
if one dares to look, there are the agonizingly slow but significant 
signs of incremental progress in the establishment of order. This 
progression will be expedited by the administration's new plan, which 
finally incorporates the two fundamental principles of Iraqi or any 
reconstruction plan, one, a liberal democratic society evolves upward 
from its traditional roots of order, not from a centralized 
bureaucratic government downward; and, two, a nation's transformational 
evolution into a liberal democracy must contemporaneously provide 
transactional benefits to its citizens. These fundamental principles 
will be implemented through critical initiatives, such as provincial 
reconstruction teams, an accord on oil revenue allocations, and a 
national reconciliation process, amongst others.

But to earn the support of terrorized Iraqis, security must first be 
established so they may commence securing the blessings of liberty. 
This is why the troop reinforcement is required and why the twin 
pillars of troop reinforcement and grass-roots reconstruction can 
achieve a joint American and Iraqi victory over the enemies of liberty.

The ineluctable fact of our victory is it must be won with the help 
of Iraqis, which is disconcerting to many of this resolution's 
supporters who believe the Iraqis are unwilling to fight for their 
freedom and are incapable of perpetuating once it is secured. This 
argument often intersects with the charge our mission in Iraq has been 
untenably shifted from effectuating a regime change to erecting a model 
democracy; and for the above reasons, they think this is impossible. 
This deplorable argument is antithetical to the self-evident truths 
written into our own Declaration of Independence, though, sadly, it is 
not without precedent. Once more, let us reference another resolution, 
this one opposing a military mission creeping toward a decidedly 
different goal:

''Resolved: that the emancipation proclamation of the President of 
the United States is as unwarranted in military as in civil law; a 
gigantic usurpation, at once converting the war, professedly commenced 
by the administration for the vindication of the authority of the 
Constitution, into a crusade for the sudden, unconditional and violent 
liberation of 3 million Negro slaves; a result which would not only be 
a total subversion of the Federal Union, but a revolution in the social 
organization of the Southern States, the immediate and remote, the 
present and far-reaching consequences of which to both races cannot be 
contemplated without the most dismal foreboding of horror and dismay. 
The proclamation invites servile insurrection as an element in this 
emancipation crusade, a means of warfare, th inhumanity and diabolism 
of which are without example in civilized warfare, and which we 
denounce, and which the civilized world will denounce as an 
uneffaceable disgrace to the American people.''


So much for the prognostications of the ''Peace Democrat'' controlled 
Illinois legislature's 1863 resolution. Thankfully, by the grace of God 
and the sanguine sacrifice of the American people, it was this Illinois 
legislature, not our African American brothers and sisters and our 
Nation's great emancipator, who are to be denounced by the civilized 
world for all eternity.

What of our legislative body? Now resurrects the specter of our own 
judgment, which hovers above and shadows us as we seek to ensure we are 
not forever weighed in the balance and found wonting. It is as it 
should be, as it must be, for notwithstanding its nonbinding nature, 
even after this resolution's disposition, our duty demands we make 
moral decisions affecting our Nation's victory or defeat, and our 
fellow citizens' lives or deaths. Is this not why, even while bearing 
malice towards none of them, in defending his own war plan, our own 
maligned President warned his opponents history is a harsh mistress:

''Is it doubted, then, that the plan I propose, if adopted, would 
shorten the war and thus lessen its expenditure of money and of blood? 
Is it doubted that it would restore the national authority and national 
prosperity and perpetuate both indefinitely? Is it doubted that we 
here, Congress and Executive, can secure its adoption? Will not the 
good people respond to a united and earnest appeal from us? Can we, can 
they, by any other means, so certainly or so speedily, assure these 
vital objects? We can succeed only by concert. It is not 'Can any of us 
imagine better?' but 'Can we all do better?' Objection whatsoever is 
possible. Still the question recurs 'Can we do better?' The dogmas of 
the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is 
piled high with difficulty and we must rise to the occasion. As our 
case is new, so we must think anew, act anew. We must disenthrall 
ourselves and then we shall save our country.

''Fellow citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress and 
this administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No 
personal significance or insignificance can spare one or another of us. 
The fiery trial through which we pass will light us down, in honor or 
dishonor, to the latest generation. We say we are for the Union. The 
world will not forget that we say this. We know how to save the Union. 
The world knows we do know how to save it. We, even we here, hold the 
power and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave, we 
assure freedom to the free, honorable alike in what we give and what we 
preserve. We shall nobly save, or meanly lose, the last best hope of 
Earth. Other means may succeed; this could not fail. The way is plain, 
peaceful, generous, just, a way which, if followed, the world will 
forever applaud, and God must forever bless.''

My friends, history harkens your honorable hearts to reconsider 
supporting this immoral resolution. If one believes all human beings 
are equally God's children, whether they be free or yearning to breathe 
free, one cannot, after a cruel sip of hope, condemn 20 million of 
God's equally beloved children to a saturnalia of slaughter. If one 
supports our troops, one cannot deride their cause as injurious to our 
country. If one seeks our victory in the war on terror, one cannot 
advocate a retreat and defeat in the face of our enemy.

My friends, through the fog of war, our fiery trial illumes and 
creeps ever nearer along the trail. Rather than curse the darkness and 
dread the echoes of history's verdict, let us acquit ourselves with 
lasting honor by leading our searching Nation through these trying, 
transformational times and into a transcendent, triumphal tomorrow. Let 
us earn the esteem of the latest and later generations of all free 
people by reaffirming our revolutionary Republic cherishes the self-
evident truth that all human beings yearn to breathe free. Let us, in 
our Nation's finest traditions and truest character, remove the Iraqi 
people's bonds of oppression and replace them with bonds of brotherhood 
amongst our free, sovereign, and secure peoples.

Let us, in the face of terror, march always in the ranks of honor and 
courageously and selflessly secure the Iraqi people's blessings of 
liberty and, in so doing, secure our own blessings of liberty for 
unnamed generations of American children.

Mr. Speaker, fully cognizant of my moral duty to our troops, my 
constituents, my country, and my Creator, I cannot in good conscience 
support this resolution, which is injurious to the cause of our 
Nation's victory and in consequence is patiently immoral. Therefore, I 
urge this resolution's rejection and pray God graces, guards, and 
guides the steps of all who bear the burden of our decisions made on 
behalf of the majestic American people.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.