# None
## `a4a2d1f64ba04eea484f33633ac71955`
`Mr. McCAIN — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to oppose the pending amendment by 
the Senator from Wisconsin, my friend. I strongly support the amendment 
that will be offered by the Republican leader that would deliver vital 
funding for our troops in Iraq.

The underlying House-passed bill is not only irresponsive to the 
facts on the ground in Iraq, it is simply irresponsible. It fails to 
provide any funding for our troops fighting in Iraq and actually 
contains an explicit prohibition against the use of funds for Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. The authors have compiled a bill of some 1,400 pages and 
an even larger joint explanatory statement chock-full of unnecessary 
spending, but they include not a dime for our troops in Iraq. They 
include not a dime for our troops in Iraq.

I would like our friends and colleagues and others to consider that 
the bill on the floor today contains $1.6 million for animal vaccines 
in Greenport, NY, but not a penny for our soldiers in Iraq; $477,000 
for Barley Health Food Benefits but nothing for the troops in Iraq; 
$846,000 for the Father's Day Rally Committee of Philadelphia but not a 
dime for our sons and daughters who are fighting.

We are willing to spend $244,000 for bee research in Weslaco, TX, but 
not a dollar for our fighting men and women in Baghdad, Kirkuk, and 
Anbar. It is a sad day--it is a sad day, indeed--when in the middle of 
a war this country must win, the Congress provides more funds for bee 
research than for the brave Americans risking their lives on our 
behalf.

For Congress to fail to provide the funds needed by our soldiers in 
the field is inexcusable under any circumstances, but it is especially 
disappointing right now at the very moment when General David Petraeus 
and his troops are achieving the kind of progress in Iraq that many 
dismissed as impossible a few months ago, including suspending 
disbelief in order to believe the surge was working. One has to suspend 
disbelief to believe it is not.

The bill's proponents seek, I suppose, a precipitous withdrawal of 
U.S. combat forces from Iraq regardless of conditions on the ground or 
the views of our commanders in the field. If that sounds familiar, it 
should. It should sound familiar, my friends. The majority has thus far 
engaged in no less than 40 legislative attempts to achieve this 
misguided outcome.

The choice today is simple: Do we build upon the clear successes of 
our current strategy and give General Petraeus and the troops under his 
command the support they require to complete their mission or do we 
ignore the realities and legislate a premature end to our efforts in 
Iraq, accepting thereby all the terrible consequences that will ensue?

In case my colleagues missed it, a couple nights ago, there was a 
piece on the evening news of one of the major networks that pointed out 
that for the first time in a long time there was 24 hours in Baghdad 
without a single incident of violence. How you can ignore these facts 
on the ground is something I do not--will not--comprehend.

I had the privilege, along with my colleagues, Senator Lieberman of 
Connecticut and Senator Graham of South Carolina, of spending 
Thanksgiving with our troops in Iraq. On that trip, I saw and heard 
firsthand about the remarkable transformation these brave men and women 
in uniform have brought about this year. After nearly 4 years of 
mismanaged war, our military, in cooperation with the Iraqi security 
forces, has made significant gains under the new American 
counterinsurgency strategy, the so-called surge. Overall violence in 
Iraq has fallen to its lowest level since the first year of the 
invasion. LTG Ray Odierno, the second in command in Iraq, said this 
week this improvement is due to the increase in American troops and 
better trained Iraqi forces--due to the increase in American troops and 
better trained Iraqi forces.


Now, you can believe LTG Ray Odierno or you can believe those on the 
other side of the aisle who want to bring to a halt the success we have 
achieved.

Improvised explosive device blasts, the foremost source of U.S. 
combat deaths, now occur at a rate lower than at any point since 
September 2004. This week, MG Joseph Fil, the commander for Baghdad, 
stated that attacks in Baghdad have fallen nearly 80 percent since 
November 2006, murders in Baghdad Province are down by some 90 percent 
over the same period, and vehicle-


borne bombs have dropped by 70 percent.

So as Ronald Reagan used to say: Facts are stubborn things. Facts are 
stubborn things. These are the facts--not rhetoric but facts.

Major General Fil added that, today, there is no longer any part of 
Baghdad under al-Qaida control, though the terrorist group is ''still 
lurking in the shadows.'' I agree. They are on the run, but they are 
not defeated. They are on the run, but they are not defeated.

Last week, the violence in Anbar Province was the lowest ever 
recorded. The British handed control of southern Basra to the Iraqi 
Government. And in Diyala, one of most dangerous regions in Iraq, al-
Qaida militants tried to retake several villages around the town of 
Khalis, only to see U.S.-backed local volunteers drive the terrorists 
away. That is the success of a classic counterinsurgency strategy. Tens 
of thousands of volunteers have joined ''awakening councils'' that aim 
to combat al-Qaida, and al-Qaida's No. 2, Ayman al-Zawahiri, has begun 
warning of ''traitors'' among the insurgents in Iraq.

As a result of the hard-won gains our troops have secured, General 
Petraeus has been able to initiate a drawdown of U.S. forces, a 
drawdown tied not to an artificial timetable but based on security 
gains in-country. This drawdown, beginning with the removal without 
replacement of some 5,000 American troops, has commenced following a 
dramatic drop in American casualty rates and enhanced security 
throughout the country.

Al-Qaida's leadership knows which side is winning in Iraq. It may not 
be known in some parts of America and in this body, but al-Qaida knows. 
Al-Qaida knows who is winning in Iraq. Our soldiers know they have 
seized the momentum in this fight. Does the majority party understand 
we are succeeding under the new strategy? The proponents of this bill 
cannot continue forever to deny or disparage the reality of progress in 
Iraq or reject its connection to our new counterinsurgency strategy.

As General Odierno explained, with the new counterinsurgency 
operations, ''we have been able to eliminate key safe havens, liberate 
portions of the population and hamper the enemy's ability to conduct 
coordinated attacks.'' General Odierno went on to add: ''We have 
experienced a consistent and steady trend of increased security. . . . 
and I believe continued aggressive operations by both Iraqi and 
coalition forces are the most effective way to extend our gains and 
continue to protect the citizens of Iraq.'' Given these realities, some 
proponents of precipitous withdrawal from Iraq have shifted their 
focus. While conceding, finally, that there have been dramatic security 
gains, they have begun seizing on the lackluster performance of the 
Iraqi Government to insist that we should abandon the successful 
strategy and withdraw U.S. forces. This would be a terrible mistake. Of 
course, there is no question that Iraq's national leaders must do more 
to promote reconciliation and improve governance and that the reduction 
in violence has created a window for political and economic progress 
that Iraqi leaders must seize, but let's not close that window. The 
likelihood that they make this progress would be vastly decreased--not 
increased--by a precipitous U.S. withdrawal. Whatever the failings of 
the imperfect democracy in Baghdad, they do not justify--either in 
terms of national interests or simple morality--abandoning it to the 
al-Qaida terrorists and Iranian-backed militias trying to destroy it.


None of this is to argue that Iraq has become completely safe or that 
violence has come down to an acceptable level or that victory lies just 
around the corner. On the contrary, the road ahead remains as it always 
has been: long and hard. Violence is still at an unacceptable level in 
some parts of the country. Unemployment remains high in many areas. The 
Maliki government remains unwilling to function as it must. No one can 
guarantee success or be certain about its progress or its prospects. We 
can, however, be certain about the prospects for defeat if we fail to 
fund our troops.

Make no mistake; despite the progress I have outlined, there is no 
cause for complacency. Just as we have managed to turn failure into 
success in 2007, we can likewise turn success back into failure in 
2008, if we are not careful. As Major General Fil recently put it, 
progress toward securing the city remains fragile and there is 
''absolutely a risk of going too quickly'' in drawing down troops. ''An 
immediate pullout too quickly would be a real serious threat to the 
stability here in Baghdad,'' he said. Al-Qaida is off balance, but they 
will come back swinging at us if we give them the chance.

Imagine for a moment if 1 of those 40 attempts to force a withdrawal 
from Iraq had been successful earlier this year. Rather than hearing 
from our commanders and troops in the field about the enormous 
progress, the decline in violence, the Iraqis seeking to return home, 
the decrease in al-Qaida influence, we would hear instead a very 
different story--a darker one--with terrible implications for the 
people of Iraq, the wider Middle East, and the security of the United 
States of America.

Some of my colleagues would like to believe that should the bill we 
are currently considering become law, without funding our troops in 
Iraq, it would mark the end of this long effort. They are wrong. Should 
the Congress force a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, it would mark a 
new beginning, the start of a new, more dangerous effort to contain the 
forces unleashed by our disengagement. If we leave, we will be back. If 
we leave, we will be back in Iraq and elsewhere in many more desperate 
fights to protect our security and at an even greater cost in American 
lives and treasure. Now is not the time for us to lose our resolve.

That is why the Senate must adopt the McConnell amendment. The 
funding contained in this amendment is not as some have characterized 
it: ''The President's money.'' It is money for the troops. It is money 
for the brave Americans who are in harm's way as we speak. This funding 
is to provide them with the equipment and proper training they require 
to fulfill their mission; funding to protect our men and women from 
roadside bombs and other attacks; funding to enable them to bring this 
war to a successful and honorable end. If the funding is not included, 
the President will very rightly veto this omnibus measure.

I say to my friends on the other side of the aisle that I understand 
the frustration many feel after nearly 4 years of mismanaged war. I 
share their frustration and sorrow. But we must remember to whom we owe 
our allegiance--not to short-term political gain but to the security of 
America, to those brave men and women who risk all to ensure it, and to 
the ideals upon which our Nation was founded. That responsibility is 
our dearest privilege, and to be judged by history to have discharged 
it honorably will in the end matter so much more to all of us than any 
fleeting glory of popular acclaim, electoral advantage, or office. Let 
us not sacrifice the remarkable gains our service men and women have 
made by engaging in a game of political brinkmanship. There is far, far 
too much at stake.

I urge my colleagues to support the McConnell amendment and to reject 
this amendment. I urge my colleagues to fund our troops and to support 
them so that when they do return to us, they return with the honor and 
success their valiant efforts have earned. They and the American people 
whom they are entrusted to protect deserve nothing less.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.