# A TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT EMANUEL PICKETT
## `a4c111af0243b68738ce8ca66688692a`
`Mr. McINTYRE — 23 April 2008`

---


Mr. McINTYRE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Staff 
Sergeant Emanuel Pickett of Wallace, North Carolina, who lost his life 
while defending our Nation on April 6 during a mortar attack in 
Baghdad. In addition to his service in the North Carolina National 
Guard, Emanuel served as a captain with the Wallace, North Carolina, 
Police Department. He shall be remembered by all those whose lives he 
touched as the finest example of bravery, honor, and public service.

Emanuel lived in Wallace his entire life, and throughout his 34 
years, worked selflessly to make a positive difference in his 
community. Besides working as a captain with the Wallace Police 
Department, he also worked as a reserve deputy for the Duplin County 
Sheriff's office, where he led undercover drug investigations in 
several surrounding counties. Emanuel's giving spirit found many 
outlets. He also started a crime watch in his own neighborhood, helped 
to found a program to mentor kids without fathers, and coached youth 
basketball.

Emanuel will be missed by his family and friends. He was the son of 
Harry and Merlese Pickett, the youngest of six children. He was the 
loving father of three children--two daughters, ages 17 and 10, and a 
14-year-old son. Over his lifetime, Emanuel earned countless friends. 
Because of his thirteen years of service with the police department and 
his stint of more than 20 years employed at a local butcher shop, 
Emanuel owned one of the most recognizable faces in his community. He 
was so admired within his community, in fact, that his family has 
received condolences from thousands of people, including some that 
Emanuel helped send to prison.

Emanuel Pickett was serving his second tour of duty in Iraq when his 
life was taken. His courage will continue to be an inspiration to us 
all. His life is a strong representation of what can be accomplished 
through devotion to a community and its people. May God bless his 
family, and may we always remember the life of Staff Sergeant Emanuel 
Pickett.
