# PERSONAL EXPLANATION
## `a4c33e62dcbb7e49b285821cdfbfc2b7`
`Mr. HUNTER — 16 May 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, I have enormous respect for my great friend 
from New Jersey, who has shared and fought on common ground with this 
Member for many years on items of interest and national defense that we 
shared support of.

In this case, I must oppose this amendment strongly for this reason. 
The nation that he's talking about, Iran, borders obviously one of our 
important warfighting theaters, that is, Iraq. We have seen evidence, 
it has been reported by our warfighting commanders that Iran has 
participated in moving instruments of death; that is, extremely 
effective IEDs that have been used against American troops and will 
prospectively be used against American troops, into Iraq from Iran.

The idea that we are saying that in this piece of the budget we 
cannot plan for interdiction of those items, of those weapons that are 
moving across the border, that we can't plan, for example, for Special 
Forces operations that we might need to implement or to move into 
action, to preempt this movement of deadly devices across the border, 
that we can't plan to extract hostages if they should be taken by 
Iranian militia or Iranian members of the armed forces is just not 
practical and it's not reasonable.

You have an Iranian military and intelligence body which has decided 
to become involved in the war in Iraq. They have moved across the 
border, and they have moved effective weapons across the border that 
are being used against American troops. I think it is not wise for us 
to advertise to our adversaries and to the world that we are 
establishing a policy that we will not even use money to contemplate or 
to plan for a reaction against us. I think we have to let them know 
that we have license, as Americans, to take any actions that might be 
necessary to protect American troops.

I would object very strongly to this amendment.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.