# IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST
## `a4dc5bfe7270f4c11ea6cccf7d362cfa`
`Mr. McCOTTER â€” 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. McCOTTER. I thank the gentleman from Iowa. I just want to touch 
on some points regarding strategic basis of the surge and some of the 
goals, some of what we've heard today. Your indulgence. Just touch upon 
some of the general themes that our Nation faces in the war for 
freedom.

Mistakes in the past in Iraq have been rectified under the Petraeus 
plan. As I have said and many here have said on our side of the aisle, 
in the early days of the problems of reconstruction, we believed that 
you could not impose democracy from above in a top-down approach, but 
you could unleash liberty so that it could rise up, much as the 
American Revolution did, to take its own shape as the Iraqi people were 
emancipated from the shackles of Saddam's oppression.

What General Petraeus is doing, in conjunction with Ambassador 
Crocker, is they are going into the towns, they're going into the 
tribes, they are going into the bedrock of the population of Iraq, and 
with the surge, providing the security to protect these individuals in 
these towns from the collective and systematic terror of the enemy, so 
that average Iraqis can make the local political shift to liberty and 
away from the insurgency. This is being done not simply through the 
utilization of military force. In fact, the success on the ground in 
the local levels and in the provinces and in our cooperation with the 
tribes is built upon and hastened by this political shift among the 
population.

In any counterinsurgency operation, the critical element is to 
separate the population from the insurgency. This can be reasoned, if 
we look back at some of the statements of the grand guerilla warrior, 
Chairman Mao. When asked about how his guerilla operations and 
insurgencies against the nationalist Chinese would work, he said, our 
people will be as the fishes amongst the water of the people. What you 
have to do is separate the fish from the water. This is why the 
critical testimony I believe we heard today was that every single 
Iraqi, everyone in Anbar Province and elsewhere where we are seeing 
progress is being given the ability to make the free, conscious 
decision to reach for their liberty. They are not being terrorized 
because of the valor of our troops and the plan and the reconstruction 
efforts that are flowing into these areas that show they have a 
transactional benefit in this transformational change. And this is 
hastening the local political shift which I believe undergirds our 
chances for victory in Iraq. This is also what undergirds the good news 
that we had today, at least the welcome news that, because of the local 
shift amongst the population and the improved security that is 
concomitant to it, General Petraeus has proposed a reduction of 4,000 
troops by the end of the year and a reduction of 40,000 troops by July.

Even if our Nation is so divided that we cannot unite in the cause of 
victory in Iraq, at least let us unite with the welcome news that 4,000 
now and 40,000 of our fellow Americans citizens are going to be 
returning from harm's way to their loved ones.



To have individuals derive this as a token gesture is to accuse 
General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker of what the accusers themselves 
are doing, which is to play politics with the lives of our troops. We 
have seen, despite all evidence, despite what the military's assessment 
has been, repeated calls for the immediate withdrawal of the United 
States forces from Iraq. This would be irresponsible not only to our 
troops in the field but to the people of the region, especially the 
Iraqis themselves, who would be slaughtered.

When one decides to engage in a strategic withdrawal in the face of 
enemy, military experts generally concur that this is one of the most 
dangerous maneuvers forces in the field can attempt because your 
numbers are getting smaller as the enemy is becoming emboldened and 
encroaching ever closer to you. The wholesale withdrawal on a date 
certain, which is an arbitrary dictate from politicians in Washington, 
for those who believe that this is a proper course of action, I ask 
them to check into how the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan went, and 
they might reach another decision.

Further, to call this a token gesture not only belittles the 
sacrifices that our troops have made to reduce the security problems in 
these areas and to help get this local political shift, it also 
diminishes and belittles in a callous way the true joy these troops' 
families are going to feel when their loved ones come back.

To me that is something that is not a token. That is something that 
relieves the painful anxiety of every waking minute these families 
spend wondering if their loved one will come home. I highly doubt that 
the military mothers in my district or throughout America are ever 
going to consider any troop coming home from accomplishing their 
mission as being a token gesture.

Be that as it may, it is also critical that we understand, in this 
period of time, that ours is the latest generation duty bound to defend 
freedom in its hour of maximum danger. Thus we must ever remember, 
through this crucible of liberty, our course is tough but our cause is 
just.

The enemy is the sire of tyranny; we are the children of liberty. By 
heinously invading our Nation on September 11, 2001, and killing 3,000 
innocent American souls, the enemy announced we cannot co-exist. In 
consequence, it is clear a world condensed by an Internet cannot endure 
half slave and half free. Yes, many times in the life of our free 
Republic, we have been called upon to face danger and to defeat it, and 
we have always done this and secured it by advancing a simple elemental 
truth that has served us well: to ensure our own liberty, we must 
ensure liberty to the enslaved.

Thus in this trying time, it is imperative that we demonstrate that 
our devotion to liberty transcends their obsession with death. And 
united amongst ourselves and other free people, with prudence, we can, 
we must, and we will, for the sake of our children and the generations 
of Americans yet unnamed, we will win and we will walk our path, and we 
will widen the cause of human freedom.

I thank you for allowing me the chance to address you.