---
---

# IRAQ
## `a4e43ecba12047cb489d4fdcb0e25580`
`Mr. ALLARD — 16 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I rise today reflecting on the most 
pressing issues on the minds of the American public--that of the 
current situation in Iraq. We have been in Iraq for nearly 4/1/2/ 
years, and frustration is certainly understandable. I wish nothing more 
than to see the United States reach a point where our soldiers and 
sailors and airmen and marines are able to leave and the Iraqi people 
can stand on their own. Our military has done an exceptional job. That 
point cannot be debated. But as so many have said, victory and ultimate 
success in Iraq cannot be completed solely through military strength.

I wish also to specifically point out the leadership of the ranking 
member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator John McCain, on 
this issue. Having just returned from Iraq, his pointed remarks on our 
united efforts in Iraq and the importance of our mission are much 
needed.

Senator McCain understands, as I do, that the terrorist threat in 
Iraq will not stop, nor will our safety improve at home if our forces 
leave. In their own words, these dangerous ideologues continue to make 
bold and alarming threats worldwide, but even more importantly, they 
are backing up their words with action. They will continue to strike 
our allies in the gulf and they will continue to strike our friends in 
Europe, and I believe they will not hesitate to strike America again, 
as they did on September 11.

That said, I am extremely disappointed that more progress has not 
been made on the political and domestic security from within Iraq. The 
fact remains, Iraq is simply not ready to take over their own country 
today, and if the United States were to leave, the consequences would 
be nothing short of catastrophic. Al-Qaida is training, operating, and 
carrying out their missions in Iraq right now. As evidenced in Britain 
2 weeks ago, they are clearly still a threat and are still determined 
to accomplish their goals of destroying western culture. That much has 
not changed.



On July 12 the President issued a report as required by the fiscal 
year 2007 Supplemental Appropriations bill assessing the progress of 
the sovereign government of Iraq's performance in achieving the 
benchmarks detailed in the bill. As we know, this report told us that 8 
of the 18 benchmarks detailed in that bill received satisfactory marks. 
While we are certainly disappointed that more benchmarks were not 
achieved, it is important to highlight the success that is being made, 
and how the Iraqi government is performing, as their success will 
ultimately allow us to responsibly reduce our troop levels.

Specifically, the government of Iraq has made progress in forming a 
Constitutional Review Committee to review the constitution. This is 
important, just like in our Nation's history; we needed to create a 
constitution that provided a standard for which to base our laws. 
Though many contentious issues continue to exist, I am pleased that 
significant progress is being made. If Iraq cannot form their 
constitution, then it will be very difficult or impossible to move 
forward onto other matters.

Also, the Iraqis have satisfied the requirements set forth to enact 
and implement legislation forming semi-autonomous regions. This law is 
set to come into effect in 18 months, but thus far this potentially 
very contentious issue has not received much attention. This is 
important as it further organizes and equips Iraq to take on the 
responsibilities of a democratic government and this benchmark furthers 
the necessary groundwork needed to build a responsible and legitimate 
government.

Iraq has made progress to ensure the rights of minor political 
parties within the legislature and maintain that their rights are 
protected. Clearly this is important in obtaining legitimacy, 
particularly given the historical and present conflicts between the 
Sunnis, Shia, and Kurds.

On the security front, the Iraqis, with coalition support, have 
successfully reached benchmarks establishing joint security stations 
across Baghdad that provide a continuous security presence. These 
stations are necessary as they can effectively combine American 
technology and capabilities with the Iraqi presence on the ground in 
order to counter insurgent threats where they begin. By mid-June, 32 
joint security stations have reached initial operational capability and 
36 combat outposts have reached initial or full capacity.

Also, the goal of providing three trained and ready Iraqi brigades in 
support of Baghdad operations has been achieved and this complements 
the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Certainly this is a major 
priority as the development of a functional and effective Iraqi 
fighting and security force is absolutely essential for the Iraqis to 
further take the reins of their government, and I am pleased that these 
goals are being accomplished thus far.

At the beginning of this year, the President changed the focus of 
this effort. Decisions were made for a new direction. ADM William 
Fallon was placed in charge as CENTCOM commander and the Senate 
unanimously confirmed GEN David Petraeus as the new commander of our 
forces in Iraq. The much talked about, and much criticized, surge of 
28,000 additional troops has only been underway for just about 3 weeks 
now.

Operation Phantom Thunder began on June 15 and already Iraq, and 
particularly Baghdad, is a much different place than it was only 6 
months ago. U.S. forces have begun working closely with Iraqis to bring 
down sectarian violence of al-Qaida in country. So far the new 
counterinsurgency has decreased Shiite death squad activity and many 
militia leaders have been disposed of. Execution levels are at the 
lowest point in a year, and al-Qaida hotspots in the city are shrinking 
and becoming isolated from one another and supply lines are being cut 
around the city.

For the first time in years the U.S. is operating freely in eastern 
Baghdad as we are surrounding the villages and small towns around 
Baghdad routing out insurgent bases. Already, total car bombings and 
suicide attacks are down in May and June, and by the end of June, 
American troops controlled about 42 percent of the city's 
neighborhoods, up from 19 percent in April.

Initial military success certainly does not mean that operations are 
complete, nor is political victory guaranteed. The fact remains that 
this body unanimously confirmed GEN Petraeus with the knowledge that he 
planned to initiate this surge that would ideally route out al-Qaida 
and ultimately clear the path for internal change within Iraq. Again, 
the surge began on June 15 and we owe it to our troops who are placing 
their lives on the line not to pull the plug on them while they remain 
in harm's way.

Our best and brightest military minds have worked to construct this 
new strategy and we need to see it through. I would like to see our 
troops come home today, but the harsh reality remains that this is not 
a valid option, will not make us safer, and is not in our national 
interest. If we leave, it is naive to think al-Qaida and our enemies 
will just go away and we will no longer be threatened.

Additionally, I have heard many of my colleagues discuss on the floor 
some of their new strategies in Iraq, strategies that I believe would 
weaken us at home and abroad. What I find curious is that they keep 
referring to finding a bipartisan resolution in Iraq, when only months 
ago this body overwhelmingly approved 2 new military commanders in the 
region and a new diplomatic leader in Ambassador Crocker. We also 
approved, in a bipartisan manner, the new way forward in Iraq that 
President Bush eloquently defended this morning. In that vote, this 
body committed that we would allow the surge to go forward and would 
give GEN Petraeus the time to enact the strategy. I cannot in good 
conscience cut short a plan barely 3 months old.

As we all know, in September a complete review of Iraq policy, 
including a detailed assessment of the surge will be presented. I look 
forward to that assessment. I look forward to making the appropriate 
decisions based on that report. It would be disingenuous to simply 
discontinue the plans that our military leaders have planned and are 
putting into place simply for political gains.

Remarkably, the Senate is in a similar situation that we were only 
months ago when many in this body wanted to reject the strategy GEN 
Petraeus proposed in Iraq, even before he has been given the full 
opportunity to perform his mission. Well, we are at it again. For what 
reason did my colleagues agree to the new strategy in Iraq but are not 
willing to support our own self-imposed guidelines? I don't know the 
answer to that, but I do know that I will not. I will continue to vote 
against any legislation that sets arbitrary deadlines and thresholds in 
Iraq--and plead with my colleagues to do the same.

Let's not stand here this week and prejudge what will come out of the 
September 15 report, but more importantly, let's not prejudge the 
talents of our men and women in Iraq. Let's give our military and 
diplomatic teams the time they deserve, and which we had promised them.

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.