---
---

# None
## `a4f46d902fdde75b8ea3f52b1d506ae5`
`Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas — 17 December 2010`

---


Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on Monday, I was extremely 
saddened to hear about the death of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke. He 
was a great leader and a dedicated representative of peace and 
democracy throughout the world. I extend my deepest condolences to 
Ambassador Holbrooke's family, his wife Kati Marton, his brother, 
Andrew, and his children, David, Anthony, Christopher and Elizabeth.

Ambassador Holbrooke has had a tremendous career with the United 
States State Department, which began with a response to President 
Kennedy's call to service for government work in the early 1960s. 
Ambassador Holbrooke was undoubtedly a public servant ever since his 
graduation from Brown University in 1962, when he joined the Foreign 
Service and was sent to Vietnam. At the young age of 24, Richard 
Holbrooke, an expert on Vietnam issues, was appointed to a team of 
Vietnam experts, the Phoenix Program, under President Lyndon B. 
Johnson. Ambassador Holbrooke has always been a champion of peace and 
democracy, and this began at a young age with a profound dedication to 
the United States' international diplomacy efforts.

Since beginning his career in foreign policy at such a young age, 
Ambassador Holbrooke was always at the forefront of international 
political issues, whether it was as a public servant at the 1968 Paris 
Peace Talks, Director of the Peace Corps in Morocco, or as a the editor 
of Foreign Policy magazine. Ambassador Holbrooke will always be an 
archetype of United States diplomacy, and his resume only serves to 
demonstrate how he has been consequential to diplomacy in some of our 
generation's most tumultuous events.

Ambassador Holbrooke never relented in his efforts to expand his 
efforts to pursue U.S. interests of diplomacy and democracy 
internationally. In 1977, under President Carter, Richard Holbrooke was 
Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs. As the 
youngest person to have been appointed to that position, Ambassador 
Holbrooke oversaw the normalization of relations with China in 1978, 
and the warming of the cold war during his tenure. His diplomatic 
achievements do not culminate with the establishment of diplomatic 
relations with China--instead they continued, and arguably exceeded 
anyone's expectations.

When President Clinton took office in 1993, Mr. Holbrooke returned to 
work for the United States Government with the State Department. His 
first appointment was as the U.S. Ambassador to Germany, where he 
participated in the founding of the American Academy in Berlin as a 
cultural exchange center.

In 1994, he returned to Washington after being appointed by President 
Clinton to be the Assistant Secretary of State for European and 
Canadian Affairs, where he was the lead negotiator in the Balkan Wars. 
He was strategic in establishing a lasting peace at the Dayton talks 
that undoubtedly saved thousands of lives. The 1995 Dayton peace 
accords ended the war in Bosnia--but it required an agreement by the 
three warring factions, the Serbs, the Croats, and the Bosnian Muslims. 
Holbrooke's role in this is lasting; he ended the 3-year war, and 
helped develop the framework for dividing Bosnia into two entities, one 
of the Bosnian Serbs and another of the Croatians and Muslims. 
Ambassador Holbrooke is a hero of U.S. diplomacy, and undoubtedly had 
tremendous importance in facilitating peace, in whatever form, in 
Bosnia.

After playing a key role in the Dayton Peace Talks, President Bill 
Clinton named Mr. Holbrooke as the representative of the United 
States to the United Nations. Holbrooke's time as the United Nations 
Ambassador was highlighted in his addressing the problems of global 
HIV/AIDS. He advocated to United Nation peacekeepers that it was their 
responsibility to help prevent HIV/AIDS and invited Vice President Al 
Gore to speak before the Security Council to highlight the growing 
epidemic. Ambassador Holbrooke warned that the medical section of the 
peacekeeping department has been under-staffed and suggested that all 
peacekeepers include the cost of AIDS tests in the budget of future 
missions. Mr. Holbrooke has been a strong advocate for HIV/AIDS issues 
having worked with the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS and the 
Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) during his time as United Nations 
Ambassador to the United States. During his tenure, Ambassador 
Holbrooke invited members of the CBC to visit the U.N. Ambassador 
Holbrooke demonstrated his drive to securing international health and 
peace, in his lifetime of dedication to diplomatic efforts.


His work never ceased, and it continued with President Obama. Under 
the Obama administration, Ambassador Holbrooke was appointed Special 
Envoy to Pakistan and to Afghanistan--a region that contains the United 
States' greatest national security concerns. Just as his responsibility 
unfolded in the Balkans, his responsibility in Pakistan and Afghanistan 
posed a major challenge that would not have an easy solution. As we all 
know, the problems in Afghanistan and Pakistan are multidimensional and 
are problems that could not be solved overnight. Ambassador Holbrooke 
knew this, yet he commendably took on the role, and worked courageously 
and diplomatically in a densely complicated region.

Ambassador Holbrooke was the intermediary between Afghanistan, 
Pakistan and the United States. Ambassador Holbrooke was fighting, 
diplomatically, to stabilize the often unpredictable and always 
fluctuating region. The fight continues to be multifaceted, and 
Ambassador Holbrooke dealt with fragile economies, containing 
corruption within governments and elections, destabilizing the Taliban 
resurgency, a rampant narcotics trade, the presence of Al Qaeda, and 
maintaining peace and security, all while promoting United States 
diplomatic efforts. Representing the United States, Ambassador 
Holbrooke worked to promote economic development in Pakistan through 
the Kerry Lugar Berman Bill, and worked with the Afghani government and 
administration to reduce U.S. combat troops and to forge a lasting 
peace in the region.

He is an example to us all, his life was foreign policy, his 
dedication was to the United States, and his motivation was diplomacy. 
Ambassador Holbrooke will always be regarded as a true American 
diplomat, one who strived for international peace throughout his entire 
career, of nearly 50 years, as a public servant.

We lost a great American peacemaker this week. Ambassador Richard 
Holbrooke gave his life to the cause of peace. His work over the years 
speaks for itself, but most importantly, the call that he accepted on 
behalf of Americans to serve in Afghanistan and Pakistan will resonate 
for decades. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke was my friend and will never 
be forgotten.