---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `a4f5ebb2230c3f4bc2fb0a5aa86151a0`
`Mrs. CLINTON — 7 February 2007`

---


Mrs. CLINTON. Madam President, we are all well aware in this Chamber 
that our country finds itself in a deepening crisis in Iraq, and we 
find ourselves at a moment of decision in the Senate. Nearly 4 years 
ago, our President rushed us into war in Iraq, a war now longer than 
American involvement in World War II, which next month will actually 
exceed the length of our own Civil War. For 4 years, Members on both 
sides of the aisle have watched with shock and dismay as our President 
has made mistake after misjudgment after miscalculation. Even before 
the invasion ended, the administration rejected the voluminous plans 
drawn up by the State Department to deal with the chaotic aftermath. 
The successful examples of the U.S. experience in Bosnia and Kosovo 
during the 1990s were summarily rejected. State Department and other 
American officials with experience in nation-building were blackballed 
in favor of inexperienced ideologues who were selected on the basis of 
political litmus tests, including answering questions about whether 
they were for or against Roe v. Wade and whether they had voted for 
George W. Bush.

Despite the urgent warnings of Army Chief of Staff Rick Shinseki and 
other senior military commanders, the necessary number of troops to 
ensure security and stability was not sent at the start of the 
conflict. Our men and women in uniform were ordered into harm's way 
without the necessary body armor or armored vehicles, a mortal error I 
have tried to correct time and again since I first learned of it. The 
strategic blunders now fill an entire library shelf of books, and they 
are certainly too numerous for me to list in the time allotted here.

Through these 4 years, there has also been another abdication of 
responsibility. That was the failure of this Congress to engage in its 
Constitutional obligation of oversight and accountability. While our 
troops have stood valiantly on the frontlines, the Congress has stood 
on the sidelines. Defending a partisan position trumped U.S. national 
security interests and the welfare of our troops in the field. Many 
Members attempted to raise the debate, and we were unable to do so 
because of the majority's refusal to hold the administration 
accountable.

In the election last year, the American people decided the status quo 
was no longer acceptable. So we have a new Congress, and it is past 
time we in this Chamber do our duty to balance the President and 
provide a check against his failed policy in Iraq. As there is a 
majority in our country against the President's failed policy in Iraq, 
there is a bipartisan majority in this Senate against it, as well. The 
resolution before the Senate reflects that bipartisan consensus as it 
also reflects the sentiments of the overwhelming majority of Americans.

But a partisan minority seeking to shield the administration's 
continuing failure in Iraq seeks to thwart the bipartisan majority and 
the will of the American people. This is not a debate about 
abstractions. I have seen the consequences of our involvement in Iraq, 
as have many of my fellow Senators. Three weeks ago, I visited Iraq to 
express gratitude to our soldiers, to meet with Iraqi leaders and U.S. 
commanders and our troops on the ground.

What I saw and what I did not see underscored my concerns. I saw 
American service men and women performing their duty admirably, but I 
did not see a strategy that, under the current circumstances, has much 
chance of success. The collective analysis of our intelligence 
community in the latest National Intelligence Estimate is that the term 
''civil war'' does not adequately capture the complexity of the 
conflict in Iraq. The bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Commission said the 
situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating. Yet the President's 
response to the bipartisan commission and the latest National 
Intelligence Estimate does not match the urgency that is described. The 
so-called surge is not a new strategy but a tactic that has been tried 
and failed.

The absence of leadership on the part of the President leaves 
Congress no choice but to demonstrate the leadership that the American 
people and the reality on the ground demand. The previous two 
Congresses abdicated their duty. We must not. Every single day our feet 
sink deeper into the sands. Every day the crisis worsens. To hide from 
this debate with our troops in such danger is wrong, plain and simple.



The crisis in Iraq has fostered a crisis of democracy at home. The 
American people expect a debate. Our troops are owed a debate. Our 
Constitution commands we debate. But a partisan minority acting at the 
behest of the administration is standing in the way. This amounts to a 
gag rule on our democracy, contrary to the national security interests 
of the United States.

Even though America voted for a new direction in Iraq, even though 
the majority of Senators opposes escalation in Iraq, we cannot get the 
Republicans to allow us to take a symbolic vote to condemn the 
escalation, much less a real vote to stop it. This resolution deserves 
a debate. It deserves a vote. It deserves passage.

There are those in the Senate who invoke our grave troops, suggesting 
that a debate on the most important issue facing our country and facing 
our troops would somehow undermine the mission and weaken our Nation. 
It is a pernicious, shameful argument and it is dead wrong. Our 
democracy is stronger than that and the American people and our troops 
deserve better than that.

Our troops understand we are debating this war. We are debating it 
not just in this Senate, we are debating it in kitchen table 
conversations, around water coolers, and standing in line at 
supermarkets. We are debating this war everywhere Americans gather. 
Indeed, our troops are debating this war.

The American people understand it is the policy that undermines our 
national security interests, not a vote disapproving the policy.

This debate and this resolution have merit and purpose and it will, 
if permitted to go forward, begin the process of changing the policy; 
otherwise, why would the administration and my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle fight so hard to prevent us from having a debate and 
a vote? Because they understand this will be the first step to restore 
our strength and renew our leadership around the world, to begin 
redeploying our troops out of Iraq and start on the long road of 
undoing the damage brought by the President to America's leadership 
around the world.

If you believe the escalation is the right strategy, cast your vote 
for it. If you believe, as the majority in this Chamber believes, that 
escalation is not the right strategy, then cast your vote against it. 
But standing on the sidelines is no way to stand up for the troops.


Now, there are many--both in the Chamber and outside--who wish to go 
further than this resolution and look for ways to bind the actions of 
the President and to require him to change course. I understand and 
agree with the frustration that has afflicted many Members in dealing 
with the President's policy. However, if we can get a bipartisan vote 
against escalation, it will be the first time the Senate has exercised 
its constitutional responsibility to be a check and balance on the 
President. The first step for the Senate will be a giant leap toward 
accountability and toward the right end to this war.

There is a big difference between calling for the end of this war and 
doing the difficult, painstaking work of building the political will 
within the Congress to take action. We, in the Senate, entrusted by our 
constituents to cast tough votes, should not have the luxury of 
standing outside the arena and lobbing criticism from within.

Once we pass this resolution, we should go further. Rather than an 
escalation of U.S. troops, which will not contribute to fundamentally 
changing the conditions on the ground, we should put pressure on the 
Iraqi Government in a way that they will understand there are 
consequences to their empty promises and their continued inaction.

Last week, the National Intelligence Counsel released the 
unclassified key judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate on 
Iraq. That presents the consensus views of the U.S. intelligence 
community. It underscores the need for a political solution. The NIE 
states that in the coming 12 to 18 months, the overall security 
situation will continue to deteriorate at rates comparable to the 
latter part of 2006. And it goes on further to say that even if 
violence is diminished, given the current winner-takes-all attitude and 
sectarian animosities infecting the political scene, Iraqi leaders will 
be hard-pressed to achieve sustained political reconciliation in the 
timeframe of the estimate, namely, a year to a year and a half. Even if 
the intelligence experts argue the escalation results in greater 
security, their best judgment is that the bloodshed and violence will 
continue to spiral out of control.

So what should we do? Many believe, and we have been arguing for this 
and voting for this for more than a year and a half, that we have to 
chart a new course that emphasizes greater Iraqi responsibility. I 
still believe that is the path we should be taking. Instead, the 
President has chosen a very narrow course that relies heavily on 
American military force.

I will be introducing legislation that I think offers a better 
alternative. First, my legislation will cap the number of troops in 
Iraq as of January 1st and will require the administration to seek 
congressional authorization for any additional troops. The President 
has finally said, this is not an open-ended commitment in Iraq, but he 
is providing the Iraqis with an open-ended presence of American troops.

Second, as a means to increase our leverage with the Iraqi Government 
and to clearly send a message that there are consequences to their 
inaction, I would impose conditions for continued funding of the Iraqi 
security forces and the private contractors working for the Iraqis.

My legislation would require certification that the security forces 
were free of sectarian and militia influence and were actually assuming 
greater responsibility for Iraqi security, along with other conditions. 
We must not let U.S. funds, taxpayer funds, be used to train members of 
sectarian militias who are responsible for so much of the violence in 
Iraq. Unfortunately, it appears our funds to Iraqi security forces may 
be going to the people we are trying to restrain.

A news report last week in an article entitled ''Mahdi Army Gains 
Strength through Unwitting Aid of U.S.'' reports that:




 . . . the U.S. military drive to train and equip Iraq's 


 security forces has unwittingly strengthened Muslin cleric 


 Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army militia, which has been battling 


 to take over much of the capital city as American forces are 


 trying to secure it.


According to this new report, U.S. Army commanders and enlisted men 
who are patrolling East Baghdad, said al-Sadr's militias had heavily 
infiltrated the Iraqi police and Army units that they've trained and 
armed. Said one soldier:




 They'll wave at us during the day and shoot at us during 


 the night.


We need to inform the Iraqi Government, in no uncertain terms, that 
there are consequences, that we will take funds away from their 
troops--not from our troops, many of whom still lack armored vehicles 
and counterinsurgency measure devices and communications equipment. And 
we will not fund the Iraqis if our troops are going to enter into 
sectarian battles where some of the participants have received American 
training and support.


Third, I would hold the administration accountable for their empty 
promises as well. My bill requires the Bush administration to certify 
that Iraq has disarmed the militias, has ensured that a law has finally 
been passed for the equitable sharing of oil revenues; that the Iraqi 
Government, under American influence and even pressure, has made the 
constitutional changes necessary to ensure rights for minority 
communities; that the debaathification process has been reversed to 
allow teachers, professionals, and others who joined the Baath Party as 
a means to get a job to serve in the new Iraqi Government.

I would also require the administration to engage in a regional 
diplomatic initiative, including all of Iraq's neighbors, to address 
Iraq's future and to understand and convey clearly that the United 
States expects Iraq's neighbors to be partners in the stability and 
security of the new Iraqi state.

If these conditions are not met or are not on their way to being met 
within 6 months, a new congressional authorization requirement would be 
triggered.

Finally, I would prohibit any spending to increase troop levels 
unless and until the Secretary of Defense certifies that our American 
troops will have the proper training and equipment for


whatever mission they are ordered to fulfill.

Yesterday, I read the classified report outlining the findings by the 
Department of Defense inspector general about the problems that have 
been faced by our troops getting the equipment they desperately need in 
combat areas such as Iraq.

The inspector general did not have the full cooperation of the 
Department of Defense. It is heartbreaking that the inspector general 
could conclude that the U.S. military still has failed to equip our 
soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, especially for the kind of warfare 
they are confronting, with IEDs and insurgents who are attacking them 
in asymmetric, unconventional warfare.

This report comes on the heels of an article in the Washington Post 
last week titled ''Equipment for Added Troops Is Lacking: New Iraq 
Forces Must Make Do, Officials Say.'' The Washington Post story raised 
serious questions about the adequacy of the supply of up-armored HMMWVs 
and trucks.

One of our generals is quoted as saying he does not have the 
equipment our forces need, and they will have to go into battle with 
what they have.

On my way back from Iraq and Afghanistan, I stopped at Landstuhl 
Hospital in Germany to visit with some of our wounded soldiers. I met 
with one young man who was lying in his bed with injuries he had 
suffered from one of the shape charges, these new more advanced, more 
sophisticated command-controlled IEDs, the improvised explosive 
devices. He told me that the armored, fully equipped HMMWV had saved 
his life and that of the lives of his buddies who were with him. But he 
also told me that not everybody he served with had that kind of 
protection because there were not enough of those armored vehicles to 
go around.

I do not believe the Congress can shirk its responsibility. It is 
past time we live up to our constitutional responsibility. If I had 
been President in October of 2002, I would have never asked for 
authority to divert our attention from Afghanistan to Iraq, and I 
certainly would never have started this war. But we are where we are, 
and this Congress must deliver a strategy to help us end this war in 
the right way and begin returning our troops home.

So on this most important issue of our time, I call on my colleagues 
not to hide from this debate but to welcome it, to welcome the 
opportunity to set forth whatever one's opinions might be because this 
debate is about more than our policy in Iraq. It is about the role and 
responsibility of this august institution. Great debates in our past 
have not only moved public opinion but furthered the progress of our 
country.

This debate is not merely about whether the President should escalate 
troops into Iraq, whether he has failed to grasp the complexity of the 
situation we confront in Iraq, and to take every diplomatic, political, 
economic, and military strategy available to him, but it is about our 
democracy itself.

We should consider this resolution, and I hope we will. Our duty is 
rooted in the faith entrusted to us by our constituents and enshrined 
in our Constitution. When we think about the patriotism and bravery, 
the humor and resolve, the optimism and strength of our soldiers, 
marines, airmen, and sailors, our Active Duty, our Guard, and Reserve, 
I think it humbles us all. But it comes out of this great democratic 
tradition that we are all blessed to be a part of.

I hope we have the opportunity in the next days to do our duty just 
as the men and women who are serving us have done and are doing theirs.

A week ago, I was privileged to go to San Antonio for the opening of 
a remarkable center called the Center for the Intrepid. It is a new 
state-of-the-art facility devoted to the rehabilitation and recovery of 
our wounded heroes. It was funded by contributions from more than 
600,000 Americans. It was not built by our Government. It was built by 
our citizens.

It is not only going to be a place of great hope and healing for the 
brave men and women who have given their full measure, but it will also 
stand as a symbol of our democracy, of our values, of people coming 
together across our country--a unique partnership that you find nowhere 
else in the world except here.

As I sat on the stage during the ceremonies for the opening of this 
new rehabilitation center, I watched the hundreds of young men and 
women who had been injured march in, and in some cases wheeled in, to 
take their place in the audience. I believe they are owed this debate. 
And certainly all those who are currently serving, and the thousands 
who are on their way to carry out this escalation strategy, deserve it 
even more.

So I hope we will have a chance to express the will of our 
constituents, our deeply held opinions, and participate in a debate 
that is historic and necessary. That is the least we can do.