---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `a4f902a23a660237e98614fa8f09c42b`
`Mr. OBEY — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 6 minutes. Let me start by 
saying what is not in this bill. There is no money in this bill for 
agriculture, there is no money for western wildfires, there is no money 
for western schools. All of that will be in the next bill, which will 
be considered separately.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is our response to the President's request for 
$100 billion in additional funding for the civil war in Iraq, after he 
vetoed the Congress's first attempt to deal with that problem.



What the bill does is to provide roughly $40 billion in funds that 
are needed for the troops. We provide $30.5 billion for operations in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. We provide additional funding for training of 
Afghan and Iraqi soldiers.

We provide $3.5 billion for defense health, a number of these items 
we are providing the President has not asked for. We are providing, for 
instance, for the full $3.1 billion for base realignment. That is money 
which he asked for last year, but not in this bill.

We are also asking for $1.8 billion for veterans health care, which 
he did not ask for. We are asking for $2.2 billion for homeland 
security to strengthen our ports, our border and our cargo security.

We are providing $660 million to defend this country against the flu 
pandemic, which could kill many more Americans than have died in Iraq 
if we get hit with that flu. This is money the administration itself 
asked for 2 years ago.

We are also, in addition to that, asking to finish a number of jobs 
left over from the last Congress. We are asking to finish the 
construction, the job of cleaning up the mess after Hurricane Katrina.

We are also trying to restore 40 percent of the cut that the previous 
Congress, last year, made in the Low-Income Heating Assistance Program 
in light of the higher energy prices that are rising every day. And we 
are providing, roughly $400 million in order to keep some of America's 
poorest kids from losing their access to health care.

In addition to that, we are fencing the remaining funds that the 
President has asked for, for Iraq, and we are fencing that money, just 
as we did in 1984 when the MX missile issue was in dispute. And that 
money is being held until the President issues three reports.

By July 13, he needs to issue a report defining the progress Iraq is 
making in meeting the benchmarks which the President himself laid out 
several months ago.

And we also ask him to submit a second report outlining whether or 
not any of those benchmarks have actually been achieved.

And then, in addition to that, we are requiring a monthly report on 
the combat-ready status of Iraqi military units.

When the Congress receives those reports, it will then have about a 
week and a half before it has to consider, under expedited procedures 
provided in this bill, it would have to consider, essentially, two 
questions.

The pending question before the House would be whether or not the 
remaining funds should be released so that the President, essentially, 
gets all of his money with no strings.

The second proposition to be voted on is whether or not that money 
should instead be used to simply reposition our troops out of a combat 
role in Iraq.

We make certain exceptions, the same exceptions that we had in the 
bill the last time it was before the House. And I would simply say, Mr. 
Speaker, that I think we guarantee that the administration has a fair, 
clean shot at getting the result it wants; and I think those in this 
Chamber who want a different result and want to see a new policy in 
Iraq, will get a clean shot at their preference.

What we are, in essence, doing is giving the President about 60 more 
days to make his case before those votes occur. I think that is 
eminently fair to him, and I think it is eminently fair to those of us 
in the Congress who disagree with his position.

We are trying to find a way to reach a final decision on these 
matters, even though many of us in this body very strongly disagree 
with the President's package. With this package, we will have 
compromised, now, on three very major items. We will have compromised 
on the initial Murtha principles with respect to military unit 
readiness by providing a waiver for the President.

We have also compromised with respect to the time line, because we 
have kept in our national bill that he vetoed, we retained the initial 
date by which troop repositioning was supposed to begin. But the final 
close-out date was left very much an open-ended affair. That was a huge 
concession to the White House.

And now, in a third concession, we are offering a way for the 
President to get the rest of his money. All he has to do is issue these 
three reports and then go to the Congress and try to persuade the 
Congress that his case is better than those who have a different view. 
That is a straight, fair way to deal with the problem.

And I would urge a ''yes'' vote.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.