---
---

# None
## `a502866ded61631bf290573e3d8bce4d`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 9 April 2008`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I don't know if you've had an opportunity to see 
the documentary, and I haven't seen the documentary, but I've seen Phil 
Donahue talking about the documentary that he did, it's called ''Body 
of War.'' And it's basically these soldiers who have come back and the 
injuries that they're dealing with, the folks that we see going up to 
Walter Reed. And talk about an eye-opening experience when you first go 
to Walter Reed and you see these 21, 22-year-old kids without legs, 
without arms, severe brain damage, brain trauma, you know, all of the 
gruesomeness. But I think Donahue does a good job by bringing this to 
life and doing a documentary, Eddie Vetter does some of the music on 
it, so it's really a compelling case. But it goes to the point that 
we're all talking, you know, we're all talking numbers, 4,013, and 
29,628 injured. I mean, these are numbers, but these are families that 
have been ripped apart, that will never be the same.

If we have an opportunity and enough facts to stop this thing, 
because it's not in the best interest of, obviously, a lot of these 
families, but this country, and you look at the human cost, as Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz has said, is tremendous. The financial aspect of this 
is detrimental to the future of this country. The readiness of our own 
troops, the lack of readiness, to be able to address some of these 
problems. And this is not something that you have to believe the 
Democrats or believe a politician on, this is retired Major General 
Punaro, Commission on the National Guard and Reserve, ''we think there 
is an appalling gap in readiness for homeland defense because it will 
be the Guard and Reserve that have to respond for these things.'' Army 
Vice Chief of Staff Richard Cody said the Army, ''no longer has fully 
combat ready brigades on standby should a threat or conflict occur.'' 
We're not making this up. In this country, we need to be prepared to 
responsibly, prudently, and practically disengage ourselves.

Empower the Iraqis. We've trained them for years. You know, I hate to 
always fall back on this example, but it's like when you're getting 
ready for a football season or a basketball season or a baseball 
season, you go through spring training and then the game is on a 
certain day and the coaches are coaching you, at some point you've 
taught the team all you can teach them, you've practiced as much as you 
can, and you're not fully ready for the game, but you've got to go 
play. And the coaches can't go on the field for you. And that's the 
situation we're in.

The Iraqis are never going to be perfectly prepared, Ms. Wasserman 
Schultz. It's never going to be perfect. There's never going to be a 
perfect time where all these people are trained to the tee and we're 
going to be able to say, now they're ready. Because you always make 
mistakes, you're never trained enough, you're never prepared enough, 
especially when you're dealing with all the cultural issues that we're 
dealing with.

So what we're arguing is that they're never going to be perfectly 
ready. And I think there would have been a better chance the other day 
of these thousand soldiers sticking with the mission that they had and 
staying there, but they knew the Americans were there, and so it became 
convenient to say, I'm out of here, the Americans will take over.
