---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `a50322b49dd164b83f78190e22f5ab03`
`Ms. KILPATRICK — 22 March 2007`

---


Ms. KILPATRICK. I first want to commend Speaker Pelosi for her 
leadership and tenacity, for doing the right thing for America; to 
Chairman Obey and Chairman Murtha for working together to bring this 
bill to the floor.

In my 30 years of public service, this is probably one of the most 
difficult votes I will make, but it is the right vote. I will vote 
''yes'' to support the supplemental.

This war has lasted longer than World War I and World War II. More 
than 3,200 young men and women have lost their lives, over 30,000 
amputees and the like, mental health services that we don't yet know we 
will have to endure from this ill-advised war.

It is a good supplemental. Is it perfect? No. But it does begin to 
change course, to change course that this Nation needs that we begin to 
invest in America, to take care of our children, to bring our soldiers 
home. I wish we could bring them home tomorrow, but there is a process, 
and this bill begins that process by using the President's own 
benchmarks that the Iraqis would rise up and take care of their own 
country, their own people. This is a civil war; we ought not be in it.

I ask you to vote ''yes'' on the supplemental.

The Americans who live in the 13th Congressional District of Michigan 
want our women and men in our military home now. As a Member of 
Congress who has opposed the war from the very beginning, so do I. In 
my three decades of public service to the citizens of Michigan and all 
Americans, this is one of the most difficult votes I have had to cast 
as an elected official.

As you know, I voted against the resolution authorizing the use of 
force in Iraq. I did not support the pretext nor the context for our 
involvement in Iraq. I felt then, and I feel now, that we did not 
exhaust all of our diplomatic,


political or military options. Regrettably, I have been proven correct.

In January of this year, we will have been involved in Iraq longer 
than we have been involved in World War I and longer than we were 
involved in World War II. We will have lost over 3,200 lives, over 
25,000 women and men wounded and maimed, and over $500 billion dollars 
in a conflict that, as of today, is only getting worse and worse day by 
day. I want our women and men fighting in Iraq home now.

Three decades of public service teaches you that Americans do not do 
revolutions, Americans do evolutions. As steadfast, as earnest, as 
honest as I, and the vast majority of my constituents, want our troops 
home immediately, I support this bill and will support this bill 
enthusiastically. Why? This bill does three things--first, it finally 
establishes and demands that the President of the United States be held 
accountable for our troops in Iraq and how our tax dollars are being 
spent. Second, it has a deadline for our troops to come home. Third, it 
provides some emergency support for some of the programs decimated by 
the permanent tax cuts for the rich and by the fiscal demands of the 
war.

As my colleagues who have been to battle in Iraq and who have borne 
the burden of war and its concomitant issues, I am not merely anti-war; 
I am anti-failure. This bill will get our women and men home, and it 
will require that Iraqis bear the responsibility for ultimately 
managing the country that is theirs.

Under this bill, the President will have to send troops to war under 
the same rules, regulations and guidelines established by the Pentagon. 
Rules that say that troops need adequate rest between tours of duty. 
Rules that say that no soldier or Marine will be sent without adequate 
training, equipment, or supplies. Rules that allow infantry commanders 
to have the final say in the welfare and safety of their troops. If the 
President chooses not to follow these long-established rules, he is to 
let Congress and the American people know why not following these rules 
is a national emergency.

Under this bill, accountability is demanded from contractors who are 
in Iraq. It cuts all of their contracts by ten percent, to allow 
Congress to see if taxpayer dollars are being spent on what these 
contractors say they are. For four years, there has been no 
accountability, no oversight, no responsibility in how the $500 billion 
that has been spent in Iraq--currently, we are spending an estimated 
eight billion dollars per month in Iraq--and finally, this bill 
establishes that accountability. As a Member of the august 
Appropriations Committee, this is not only my privilege, but my 
responsibility, to all of the taxpayers of America.

Under this bill, by July 1, 2007, the President must certify that 
Iraq is making meaningful and substantial progress in meeting political 
and military benchmarks, including a militia disarmament program and a 
plan that equitably shares oil revenues among all Iraqis. If the 
President does not provide this certification then U.S. forces must 
begin an immediate redeployment to be completed no later than December 
2007, or 180 days.

This bill does not ignore the fact that it is everyday Americans who 
have also paid a price for this war. Senior citizens who could go 
without heat in the winter or air conditioning in the summer. Children 
who could go without health care. And it has been 191 days since 
Katrina landed, and over half of the houses, hospitals and businesses 
have still not been rebuilt. As much of an emergency as Iraq is, these 
are equally important emergencies.

I requested that the Committee add $1 billion in funding for the Low 
Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP); along with the 
Chairman, I was able to get $400 million. I requested that the 
Committee add $1 billion in funding to rebuild houses in the Gulf 
region; the Committee was able to commit $2.9 billion to Katrina 
relief. The bill also ensures the long term health of our warriors at 
home and abroad. It adds funds for those veterans who are disabled by 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder; it provides for the hiring of more 
staffers at the Veterans Administration to speed up medical claims; it 
ensures that those veterans who have severe brain injuries have the 
therapy and care that they need; and it makes sure that Walter Reed 
Hospital remains open and that Walter Reed, as well as other VA 
hospitals, receives the funds they need to take care of our warriors.

Thirty years as a legislator will teach you that no bill is perfect, 
and that compromise and negotiation is the hallmark of this country. If 
this bill fails, the President is further empowered to do what he has 
been doing for the past 4 years--a process of failed promises, 
fratricide among warring factions in Iraq, and fomenting doom. 
Compromising your tactics is not compromising your principles. My 
principle is to bring all of our troops home as soon as possible; end 
this war; and rebuild America's reputation as the standard for human 
rights, freedom and dignity.

It seems ludicrous to this Member of Congress that our President has 
threatened to veto legislation that contains his own benchmarks for 
success in Iraq, ensures our troops have the training they need, and 
supports our veterans. For months, conservative and Republican 
commentators and elected officials asked ''what is the Democratic plan 
for Iraq''? Ladies and gentlemen, this is that plan. While Democrats 
have offered a plan to support our troops and change direction in Iraq, 
Republicans are preparing to oppose legislation that funds protection 
and equipment for our troops and supports our veterans. Instead of 
working to change direction in Iraq, opponents to this bill are turning 
their backs on our troops and our veterans, and backing the stay-the-
course strategy in Iraq.

I am a warrior for peace. I am a supporter of our women and men who 
serve our military throughout the world. I will vote for this bill 
because it provides emergency help to our Nation's senior citizens and 
children, who have borne a different burden from this war; it brings 
our troops home; and it demands, for the first time in four years, 
accountability, credibility, and responsibility from our President.