---
---

# HONORING SEVEN AMERICANS KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN ON DECEMBER 30, 2009
## `a507b0ade23484157bf6bb137f621607`
`Mr. MANZULLO — 20 January 2010`

---


Mr. MANZULLO. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1009. One 
of those individuals honored today in this resolution spent her 
formative years in the northern Illinois Congressional district that I 
am proud to represent. Miss Elizabeth C. Hanson of Rockford, Illinois 
deployed to Afghanistan as part of America's war against terrorist 
extremists. On December 30, 2009, Elizabeth, along with six colleagues 
from the Central Intelligence Agency and a Jordanian liaison officer, 
was killed when a suicide bomber attacked the base where they were 
stationed.

Elizabeth Hanson was born in February 1979 and graduated from Keith 
Country Day School in 1997. She attended Colby College during the time 
of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Elizabeth joined the CIA 
as a specialist tasked with collecting information on terrorists, and 
she was part of a team dedicated to defeating America's worst enemies.

Elizabeth Hanson served her country with passion, dedication, and 
conviction. Elizabeth will be sorely missed by her family, friends, and 
all who had the privilege of knowing her. I am enclosing for the Record 
a copy of a recent local newspaper editorial that honored her service.







 [From the RRStar.com Editorial, Jan. 17, 2010]






 Brave, Remarkable Woman Went From Keith to the CIA




 In the weeks since CIA employee Elizabeth Hanson died in a 


 suicide bombing in Afghanistan, her college placement adviser 


 at Keith Country Day School has reflected on what the loss 


 meant.



 Sally Hoff's words should shed new light on the heroism 


 that Hanson exhibited in the dark corners of Afghanistan.



 Hanson, 30, was among seven CIA employees who died Dec. 30 


 when a double agent detonated an explosive device at a remote 


 base near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border.



 Hoff worked closely with Hanson for two years at Keith, a 


 private college preparatory school, before Hanson graduated 


 in 1997.



 At first, the former counselor's deep sadness was paired 


 with shock that Hanson worked for the CIA. Then it seemed to 


 fit.



 She recalled Hanson's courage, energy and resolve--traits 


 unusual for most teenagers.



 ''Although she was involved in many activities and had a 


 lot of friends, I was aware of a strong sense of independence 


 and self-reliance in her,'' Hoff wrote in an e-mail to the 


 Editorial Board.



 ''As we moved through the college selection process, she 


 was clearly the captain of her destiny; she made her own 


 decisions without seeking much input from family and friends.



 ''There's a marked amount of bravery in that for a 17-year-


 old,'' Hoff wrote.



 Hanson went on to attend Colby College in Maine, a highly 


 selective liberal arts school where she majored in economics. 


 She graduated in 2001. A professor at Colby told The 


 Associated Press that Hanson didn't study economics as a path 


 to a lucrative job in the financial world. Her concern wasn't 


 so much the raw data, Michael Donihue said, but the behaviors 


 behind it.



 ''There are some who come into economics because they're 


 interested in making money,'' he said. ''Others want to look 


 at the world in a different way.''



 At Keith, Hanson was known as Bitsy. She was a vivacious, 


 generous, friendly young woman who seemed to enjoy 


 challenging herself in academics and extracurriculars, 


 according to Hoff.



 ''I feel honored to have known this remarkable young 


 woman!'' Hoff wrote.



 This community is honored that Hanson gave her life trying 


 to unlock the secrets of al-Qaida and its terrorist network. 


 Our condolences to her family and friends. May the pride that 


 her hometown feels in her sacrifice be some comfort.
