---
---

# LESSONS FROM 1787
## `a50d68998b9dc1acb3c6d53f5e3b9f71`
`Mr. ENSIGN — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. President, I rise today to address some of the 
critical issues this body faces at this point in history, and to 
reflect on why these challenges are surmountable if we focus on working 
together to forge ahead.

These are clearly not easy times. We are engaged in a global battle 
for the future of freedom. We are up against radical Islamic extremists 
who will do anything they can to annihilate those who do not live and 
believe their way.

At home, we face some daunting questions when it comes to expanding 
opportunity for all Americans. So do we follow a proven path of tax 
relief? Can we change the way we educate our children to prepare them 
for global competition in the 21st century? How do we provide quality 
health care that is accessible and affordable for all of our families? 
How do we secure our borders and strengthen legal immigration? Can we 
come together to make difficult decisions about the future of 
entitlements before they bankrupt this country?

Today, we face the task of funding the global war against Islamic 
extremists, providing our troops with the resources they need and 
prioritizing funding so we do not incur unnecessary debt.

Yes, these are tough questions, with serious consequences. But more 
than two centuries ago, a group of patriots convened to write our 
Constitution, and they provided the framework for the Government in 
which we have the honor to serve today.

They faced questions we take for granted centuries later but which 
could only have been resolved by incredible vision and the grace of 
God.

As Delegate James Wilson stated:



 . . . we are providing a Constitution for future generations 


 and not merely for the circumstances of the moment.


How votes would be apportioned in the Congress was one of the first 
and most difficult questions this convention tackled. The smaller 
States wanted an equal vote, and the larger States, obviously, 
preferred a proportional vote. Some argued that the vote in the lower 
House should be based on taxes paid. There were threats of breaking up 
States to make them smaller and more manageable to govern. Decisions 
had to be made regarding the terms of Members of Congress. How would 
they be paid? What powers would be granted to the Government?

Remember, this was a country that had fought its way out from under 
the control of a powerful monarchy. The Framers of the Constitution 
were incredibly aware of that fact.

The Great Compromise was the measure that gave every State two 
Senators. But would foreigners be permitted to serve in the Congress? 
Where would the seat of Government be? Would officers of the Government 
be required to swear an oath to support the Constitution? Who would 
ratify the Constitution--the States or the people?

To think today about the number of decisions and compromises that 
were made over the course of a summer is humbling. The North Carolina 
delegates wrote to their Governor:




 A very large Field presents to our view without a single 


 Straight or eligible Road that has been trodden by the feet 


 of Nations.


Yet great thought, debate, and deliberation went into every single 
decision. Issues were often revisited time and again before a consensus 
was painstakingly reached.

The Constitution was by no means thrown together quickly or 
haphazardly. Once decisions were ultimately made about the branches of 
Government and their powers, a document needed to be artfully drafted 
to steer the United States in 1787 as well as for generations to come. 
The product was nothing short of miraculous. Yet the Constitution was 
still not a done deal.

The Constitution and its revolutionary ideas had many supporters, but 
it also faced fierce opposition. It was described as ''a most 
ridiculous piece of business'' by some. Those who stood against the 
Constitution honed in on people's fears. After all, this was a 
completely experimental government with no proven model to follow. As 
delegate Davie of North Carolina declared: ''It is much easier to alarm 
people than to inform them.''

Fortunately for this Nation the constitutionalists prevailed. To 
study the transformation of a blank slate of hopes and aspirations to a 
functioning Constitution that would guide a democracy for more than 200 
years is awesome. There are several valuable lessons that I wish to 
share with my colleagues.

It is difficult to pass legislation today with a closely divided 
Senate. It was painfully difficult to make decisions about forming a 
new government and then determine and agree on what should be included 
in our Constitution. To make progress even more frustrating, a subject 
already voted on could be reconsidered again the next day and voted on 
again.

But these men did not let the process interfere with their progress. 
Their experience and their reasonableness


shined during the most difficult days. They understood if they were 
serious about creating this Constitution, they would have to work 
together and consider and respect each other's differences.

In the end, the Constitution was the work of those for it and those 
against it. They came to many compromises in order to make the final 
product that all could live with. John Adams described the Constitution 
as:




 If not the greatest exertion of human understanding, the 


 greatest single effort of national deliberation that the 


 world has ever seen.


Although I serve as chairman of the National Republican Senatorial 
Committee, I have always prided myself on reaching across the aisle to 
work for the common good. For example, my home State of Nevada has 
greatly benefited from the work Senator Reid and I have done together 
on several public lands bills. He brings certain people to the table 
who trust him; I bring others to the table who trust me. We encourage a 
dialogue that has resulted in crucial legislation for our State. I 
imagine this is the kind of give and take that made the Constitution 
possible.

Another important lesson from the Constitutional Convention was the 
understanding of the implications that our leaders' words have around 
the world. There were people who were completely opposed to the 
Constitution, but they knew how damaging their opinions could be, 
especially if those opinions were made overseas.

Benjamin Franklin stated:




 The opinions I have had of its errors, I sacrificed to the 


 public good. I have never whispered a syllable of them 


 abroad. Within these walls they were born and here they shall 


 die.


I think this is a critical flaw that is too often made in this body 
today. Our words have consequences. Today, it is much more difficult to 
contain what we say. Technology ensures that our enemies have access to 
the same television shows, Internet sites, and newspapers that our 
citizens have today. It is naive to think that a debate on the floor 
about retreating from Iraq has no impact on those plotting against us. 
It absolutely feeds into their strategy and their hope for our failure 
and our demise. We should all remember Benjamin Franklin's approach of 
working to contain our opinions that may be harmful to our Nation.

Finally, there comes a time after a contentious issue when we must 
come together and move forward. Abraham White, a fierce opponent to the 
Constitution, gave his word that he would work to convince his 
constituents to submit to the new law of the land and to live in peace 
under it.

Mr. President, 220 years ago, the States were in the midst of 
deciding whether they would ratify the Constitution. It was the 
pinnacle of a turbulent summer that left many of our delegates amazed 
at what they had actually achieved. George Washington called it 
''little short of a miracle.'' The entire effort, from the first days 
of the convention to the parades that celebrated the United States and 
its Constitution, was in fact a miracle. Benjamin Rush, a Philadelphia 
physician who signed the Declaration of Independence, described the 
unparalleled emotion that was shared by all during the Philadelphia 
celebration of the Fourth of July--even greater than at any wartime 
victory. His description included the words: ''We have become a 
Nation.''

It is overwhelming to think about the work that was done hundreds of 
years ago so that we could continue to live and uphold the tenets of an 
enduring Constitution today. What a remarkable tribute to the delegates 
of the Convention and to the leaders whose vision led to the 
ratification of our Constitution.

I hope we can keep in mind the many hurdles overcome in 1787 by the 
Constitutional Convention and the men who were gathered there and come 
together in drafting a real supplemental that will fund our troops, 
give our military leaders the tools they need, and show the Nation we 
are united and that we are committed together in this global war 
against radical Islamic extremists. We have a tremendous legacy on 
which to continue building. Let's commit to doing that.

I yield the floor.
