---
---

# MICHAEL A. MARZANO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC
## `a51ef7c294440b138703141a7f10335b`
`Mr. FILNER — 15 September 2008`

---


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is to name the VA Outpatient Clinic in 
Hermitage, Pennsylvania, after U.S. Marine Corps Sergeant Michael A. 
Marzano. It was brought to us by Congressman English and Congressman 
Altmire from Pennsylvania.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1594, a bill to name the VA 
Outpatient Clinic in Hermitage, Pennsylvania, after U.S. Marine Corps 
Sergeant Michael A. Marzano.

A native of Greenville, Pennsylvania, Sgt. Marzano courageously 
overcame a wrestling injury to his knee during his senior year of high 
school to realize his long held aspirations of becoming a United States 
Marine, four years after initially being denied entry for this reason. 
What tenacity!

In fact when called up in 1999, having won several amateur titles, he 
was training as a boxer in preparation for competing in the 2000 
Olympics. But he sacrificed it all for his country to serve as Marine.

I think we can all agree that it takes a special kind of courage to 
volunteer one's self to serve in harm's way for the good of our Nation. 
Well, Sgt. Marzano volunteered twice to serve as a member of our 
military armed forces. For his last tour, Sgt. Marzano enlisted with a 
Marine Reserve unit with the specific intention of serving in Iraq.

Duing his tour of duty in Iraq, Sgt. Marzano served in Iraq with 
Ohio's 3rd Battalion, 25th Regiment of the 4th Marine Division, and was 
a leader among his fellow Marines.

According to one of the many veterans' organizations supporting the 
dedication of this VA clinic in his honor, ''he performed his duty with 
honor and heroism and was a shining example to his men, to the U.S. 
Marine Corps and to everyone who served and continues to serve our 
great country.''

On May 8th of 2005, Sgt. Marzano was part of a Quick Reaction Force 
serving in the city of Haditha in Al-Anbar province, Iraq. Sgt. Marzano 
and the members of his team were tasked with protecting the rest of the 
force as they battled several insurgents who had overrun a local 
hospital. The local hospital contained many workers and patients who 
were held captive as insurgents used them as human shields.

Sgt. Marzano and his small group heroically kept the insurgents at 
bay providing the platoon the time they needed to engage the enemy and 
turn them back. Tragically, a suicide bomber driving in a vehicle borne 
with an improvised explosive device detonated in the area where Sgt. 
Marzano's quick reaction force was operating, killing Michael and three 
of his fellow service members.

Because of the valiant actions and sacrifice of Sgt. Marzano, Lance 
Corporal Lance Graham, Sergeant Aaron Cepeda, and Petty Officer 3rd 
Class Jeffrey Wiener, the Marines were able to secure the area under 
siege and free the Iraqis trapped inside the hospital which had been 
set on fire by the explosion of the IED.

No doubt, Sgt. Marzano is a true hero. His good nature, leadership-
by-example and love-


of-country demeanor, as well as many other fine attributes, are missed 
by many who knew him both inside and outside of the Marine Corps he so 
dearly loved.

Sgt. Marzano's family has carried on his spirit of service by 
becoming actively involved in programs to benefit the men and women of 
our Nation's Armed Services, including the Packages From Home 
organization which sends care and comfort packages to American troops 
deployed around the globe. His mother, Margy Marzano, is known as one 
of its best volunteers. There is also a scholarship fund established in 
the name of Sgt. Marzano to assist high school athletes in the Mercer 
County area go to college.

Dedication of this VA outpatient clinic as the 'Michael A. Marzano 
Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic' would be a fitting 
tribute to the brave service of Sgt. Marzano. In making the ultimate 
sacrifice for our country, Sgt. Marzano's remarkable heroism was 
displayed on behalf of our country, and we must never forget his 
legacy.

I thank my colleagues, Congressman English and Congressman Altmire 
for introducing this important legislation.

I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Altmire).