# RESOLUTION OF DISAPPROVAL OF EPA RULE--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `a51e4067d74e640a26e8a993993c9a27`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 10 June 2010`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, my esteemed colleague from New York, I 
first thank our Chair, the Senator from California, who does a great 
job on all of these issues. I thank the Senator from Rhode Island for 
his, as usual, excellent and prescient words.

I join my colleagues in strong opposition to S.J. Res. 26. This is a 
joint resolution disapproving of the rules submitted by EPA which finds 
that greenhouse gases threaten the public health and our environment. 
This resolution, if enacted, would turn back the clock on years of 
scientific research that tells us greenhouse gases are damaging to our 
environment and our public health.

This resolution could not be coming at a more meaningful moment in 
our Nation's history. As we speak, thousands and thousands of barrels 
of oil continue to pour into the gulf, disrupting lives, posing 
enormous risk to our shorelines, and costing our economy billions of 
dollars. Now is certainly not the time to tie the Federal Government's 
hands when it comes to weaning our Nation off unclean fuels. Now would 
be the last time to allow business as usual for the oil companies who 
always, as the BP incident shows, prioritize profits over clean energy 
production and safety and pollution reduction.

The most enthusiastic supporters of this resolution we are debating 
today are BP, its fellow oil companies, and their lobbyists in 
Washington. Why should we let BP and their lobbyists take the driver's 
seat? Why should we allow them to tell us how to achieve energy 
independence, how to keep American people safe from greenhouse gases? 
They are certainly not good about telling us how to keep safe from 
oilspills.

We are witnessing firsthand what happens when industry is allowed to 
do what is best for industry. There are 37 million reasons why we 
cannot let this resolution pass today: 37 million barrels today have 
bled into the gulf on the industry's watch.

I urge my colleagues to put aside their ideological positions on 
government regulation and instead work together to rewrite energy 
policy in this country. We need to focus all of our efforts on a 
comprehensive solution to a complicated problem and pass legislation to 
jump-start clean energy, cap greenhouse gases, and improve our energy 
security. It is critical that we join together in a national commitment 
to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.

We have come too far to reverse the tide on investment in American 
technology to reduce pollution and to produce cleaner energy. And we 
still have miles to go.

Even my colleagues who argue about the science of global warming 
agree that energy independence is also a national security issue. We 
send $1 billion a day overseas to buy foreign oil in large part from 
unstable and dangerous companies such as Iran, and unfriendly countries 
such as Venezuela. Our brave men and women fighting in Iraq and 
Afghanistan suffer significant casualties during the transportation of 
fuel and fuel-related supplies which are prime targets for our enemies.

Because we have failed to break this dangerous cycle of dependence, 
we are more reliant on foreign oil today than in the days after 9/11. 
We certainly can do better. This resolution is a step back.

We also all agree that America should have the cleanest air and the 
cleanest water of any place on Earth. We all know a cleaner America is 
a stronger America. Placing a cap on carbon emissions is the simplest 
way to achieve this collective goal while creating more U.S. jobs and 
reducing our dependence on foreign oil. And, it works.

Two decades ago, President Bush implemented an air pollution cap as a 
way to address the problem of airborne sulfur dioxide, known as acid 
rain, greatly affecting my State. The Bush plan worked. Today it is 
considered one of the most effective environmental initiatives in U.S. 
history. Lakes in upstate New York, in the Adirondacks and elsewhere, 
that once were dead are now coming alive.

We are at a crossroads right now, and the decisions we make will have 
great impacts on our economy, our air quality, and our Nation's energy 
security. We can choose to deny the science and continue to pollute the 
air, fall behind in the energy race, and let big oil run roughshod over 
our economy and environment or we can say no.

Or we can learn the lessons from our past, carefully weigh the facts 
and forge a new clean energy future to put America back on the road to 
prosperity.

We need to put ideology aside and pass comprehensive energy reform 
this year. Majority Leader Reid has indicated that we will make an 
energy bill a top priority this summer. I look forward to working with 
my colleagues to do just that.

Once again, I want to voice my opposition to S.J. Res. 26 and urge my 
colleagues to vote against this attempt to undermine America's nearly 
40-year effort to cut dangerous pollution, protect our air quality, and 
spur innovation.