---
---

# LIEUTENANT COLONEL JUANITA WARMAN
## `a520795c5a6cfa00d1873c46ed874eda`
`Mr. RUPPERSBERGER — 17 November 2009`

---


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise before you today to honor 
the life of Lieutenant Colonel Juanita Warman who died honorably 
serving her country.

Since 2008, LTC Warman has volunteered with the Maryland National 
Guard's reintegration program, a program designed to help soldiers 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with a variety of issues. She 
served a year overseas at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, 
the Army facility where those injured in Afghanistan and Iraq are 
treated before being sent stateside for further medical care. She 
regularly volunteered for round-trip flights to Iraq to care for 
soldiers being sent to Landstuhl. Warman was preparing for deployment 
to Iraq at the time of her death.

A graduate of the University of Pittsburgh, Warman was a certified 
psychiatric nurse practitioner whose military career spanned more than 
two decades in active duty and Army reserves. Prior to her exceptional 
work with the Maryland National Guard, LTC Warman had a civilian 
practice at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. She was an expert 
in post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. Warman 
also worked at a Veterans Administration facility in Perryville, 
Maryland.

I commend LTC Warman for her extraordinary commitment to both our 
country and her fellow service members. She touched the lives of many 
due to her outstanding sense of volunteerism, unwavering bravery, and 
dedication to making a difference.

Madam Speaker, I ask that you join with me today to honor the life of 
Lieutenant Colonel Juanita Warman. The distinguished service Lieutenant 
Colonel Warman has shown to our country will forever reverberate in our 
memories. It gives me great pride to honor one of our nation's fallen 
heroes.
