# HUBBARD ACT
## `a527d9ac86ba7f88c3e69d4e2b6c9b00`
`Mr. NUNES — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Before I share with you the reason I wrote this legislation, I think 
it's important to remind everyone why sole survivors are afforded 
unique status in our military.

Prior to 1942, it was not uncommon for family members to serve 
together in the military, even in the same unit. However, a World War 
II tragedy during the naval battle at Guadalcanal would cause the War 
Department to rethink its policy. That tragedy involved the death of 
all five Sullivan brothers, who were serving together aboard the USS 
Juneau when it was sunk in 1942.

The death of the Sullivans prompted changes intended to protect 
families from the heartache of losing an entire generation to war. One 
key reform is the policy requiring sole survivors to be removed from 
combat. It is this rule, known as the Sole Survivor Policy, that Tom 
Hanks dramatized in his movie Saving Private Ryan. Since 9/11, there 
have been 51 sole survivors identified by the Department of Defense. 
Each of them has a unique story of service and sacrifice.

The events that shaped why we are here today began in November 2004 
when a roadside bomb in Iraq killed Marine Lance Corporal Jared 
Hubbard. It is hard for anyone, myself included, to understand the 
anguish of losing a son or a daughter to war. The Hubbards bore their 
grief with amazing strength, and with the help of family and friends, 
they buried their son. Jared's patriotism and sacrifice inspired 
everyone who knew him, and although his loss is very real, his presence 
was not lost. Both of his brothers, Nathan and Jason, soon joined the 
Army. When asked why they chose to serve, both men responded that they 
wanted to honor their brother and wanted to continue his service to our 
Nation.

Late last year, Jason and Nathan were returning from a night scouting 
mission in separate Blackhawk helicopters when Nathan's helicopter 
crashed. Jason's Blackhawk landed with orders to secure the crash site. 
However, there were no survivors. Nathan had been killed in the crash.

Nathan's death resulted in Jason Hubbard's designation as a sole 
survivor. He was removed from combat duty, and was assigned to the 
solemn duty of accompanying his brother's body home for a second 
funeral in 3 years. Unfortunately, the tragedy does not end here.

When Jason voluntarily separated from the Army under the Sole 
Survivor Policy, he was asked to pay back his enlistment bonus.



He was denied transitional health care, and was told that he could 
not receive GI Bill benefits, the reason: ''He did not fulfill the 
commitment outlined in his contract.'' This response was clearly not 
what Jason expected. And I don't think there is anyone in this Nation 
who would argue that the Hubbards had failed in their commitment to our 
Nation.



Jason lost two brothers to war. He served honorably in the United 
States Army and discharged as a sole survivor only after being removed 
from combat under the Army's own rules. The challenges he faced were 
unjust. When Army Secretary Pete Geren learned of Jason's situation, he 
intervened to the extent he was able. However, we discovered statutory 
constraints that limited what the Secretary of the Army could do. The 
legislation before us today resolves those statutory issues, and for 
the first time recognizes sole survivors through an act of Congress.

The Hubbard Act will provide benefits already offered to other 
soldiers who honorably separate from military service. This means that 
sole survivors will not be forced to repay their enlistment bonus, they 
will be able to participate in the current and new GI Bill educational 
program, they will receive separation pay, and they will continue to be 
afforded transitional health care coverage.

As I conclude, I would like to thank my friends, Mr. Costa and Mr. 
Cardoza; both were instrumental in building support for this 
legislation. Furthermore, I would like to thank Senator Feinstein and 
Senator Chambliss for championing the Hubbard Act in the Senate, and of 
course Chairman Rangel and Ranking Member McCrery and, of course, Mr. 
Kind for their willingness to provide the offset for this bill. Their 
support, and the support of the 311 cosponsors, is very much 
appreciated.

With that, Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.