---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `a52efd60a733e3cd6bdf6920218f8180`
`Mr. FORTENBERRY — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. FORTENBERRY. I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for her 
leadership on Foreign Affairs and for the time.

Madam Speaker, the situation in Afghanistan is complex, and it has 
been difficult. And it has serious ramifications for regional and 
global stability. Congress understood this in the aftermath of 
September 11 and authorized the use of force in Afghanistan. The 
situation is no less serious today.

We would all like to see our troops come home as quickly as possible, 
leaving Afghanistan a stronger and better place. And we all deeply care 
about our troops, particularly those who are now wounded, who have 
fought so valiantly.

But, Madam Speaker, decisions regarding the disposition of our forces 
in Afghanistan should be made in concert with our commanders in the 
field who take seriously their responsibility for our troops and the 
success of that mission. I have confidence that General McChrystal, 
after a thorough and painstaking calculus, has provided a clear plan to 
increase stability in Afghanistan and allow our troops to withdraw as 
quickly and as responsibly as possible. Moreover, now is not the time 
to leave fledgling civil society programs more vulnerable to 
intimidation and attack.

So, Madam Speaker, I respectfully submit that we cannot afford to 
risk compromising the future of that region at this most difficult 
time, and I urge my colleagues to vote ''no'' on this resolution.