# UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST
## `a53a01060f63e9a027d636215540738c`
`Mrs. MURRAY â€” 6 February 2007`

---


Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, war is the most serious and the most 
consequential issue we can debate here in the Senate. American lives, 
American security, and America's future are all on the line when our 
country decides questions of war and peace. For years, we have been 
denied a real opportunity to fully debate this war in Iraq, a war that 
has now claimed more than 3,000 American lives with no end in sight.

Last November, the voters sent us a message. They want a new 
direction. What do we hear from the President? More of the same. In 
fact, his plan is to escalate the war by putting up to 48,000 more 
Americans in the middle of a deadly civil war. They are two completely 
different approaches. On one side, we have the American people, the 
Iraq Study Group, generals who have spoken out, and a bipartisan 
majority of Congress. On the other side, we have the President and his 
supporters. In a democracy, we resolve these issues through debate. We 
in the Senate are ready for that debate. We are ready to move in a new 
direction, and it starts by putting this Senate on record as opposing 
the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq.

I have been looking forward to finally having this debate in the 
Senate, but apparently some of the Republicans have a very different 
strategy. They don't want to have a real debate. They don't want to 
consider the resolutions that have been offered. In fact, I think the 
discussion we just witnessed right now showed that to us.

Last night, by voting against a motion to proceed to this debate, 
they said they didn't want to talk about this. Now, I am not here today 
to question their motives, but I do want to point out the consequences. 
Every day they block a debate, they send a message that Congress 
supports escalation. Every day they block a debate, they deny our 
citizens a voice in a war that has cost us dearly in dollars and in 
lives. And every day they block a debate, they are blocking the will of 
the American public.

I am on the Senate floor today because I know this debate is long 
overdue, and I am not going to let anyone silence me, the troops for 
whom I speak, or the constituents I represent. Ever since the start of 
combat operations in March of 2003, I have been very frustrated that we 
have been denied a chance to hold hearings, a chance to ask critical 
questions, a chance to demand answers, to hold those in charge 
accountable, and to give the American people a voice in a war that is 
costing us terribly. We are going to have that debate whether some in 
this Senate like it or not.


Four years ago, I came to the Senate to discuss the original 
resolution to give the President the authority to wage war in Iraq. At 
that time, I asked a series of questions, including: What is


the mission? What will it require? Who is with us in this fight? What 
happens after our troops go in? How will it impact the Middle East? How 
will it affect the broader war on terror? And are we being honest with 
the American people about the costs of that war?

After exploring those questions back almost 4 years ago, I announced 
on October 9 of 2002 that I could not support sending our men and women 
into harm's way on an ill-defined solo mission with so many critical 
questions unanswered.

Now, here we are today, 4 years later, $379 billion and more than 
3,000 American lives taken. Now the President wants to send more 
Americans into the middle of a civil war against the wishes of the 
majority of the public and Congress?

As I look at the President's proposed escalation, I am left with the 
exact same conclusion I met with 4 years ago. I cannot support sending 
more of our men and women into harm's way on an ill-defined solo 
mission with so many critical questions unanswered. Today, President 
Bush wants to send Americans into battle without a clear mission, 
without equipment, without an endgame and without explaining the cost.

When he tried it 4 years ago, I stood up and spoke out and I voted 
no. Again today, President Bush wants to send more Americans into 
battle without a clear mission, without equipment, without an endgame 
and without explaining the costs. Once again, I say: Not on my watch. 
We need a new direction, not more Americans in the middle of a civil 
war. I will vote for a bipartisan resolution to send a clear message 
that we oppose the surge. It is the first step in demanding a new 
direction in Iraq.

No debate on Iraq can begin without first recognizing our men and 
women in uniform who risk their lives and all too often give up their 
lives to keep all of us safe. Whenever our country calls, they answer, 
no matter the cost to them or their families. They are our best. They 
are our brightest, they are our bravest, and I hope to give them a 
voice in this debate.

While most Americans today are going about as normal, our troops and 
their families are quietly making tremendous sacrifices. The burdens of 
this war have not been shared equally, and we owe so much to those who 
shoulder those heavy burdens.

I had a chance to visit servicemembers from my home State on the 
ground in Kuwait and in Baghdad. Every one of them makes us proud. I 
have sat down with servicemembers and their families at Camp Murray, at 
McChord Air Force Base, at Fairchild Air Force Base. I have talked with 
returning servicemembers in every corner of my State. I have worked to 
help give them the health care and the benefits and the transition and 
support they deserve.

My home State of Washington has made tremendous sacrifices to help us 
fight and win the war on terror. To date, more than 59,000 
servicemembers with the Washington State connection have served in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Currently, 
there are nearly 10,000 people with the Washington State connection who 
are serving in OEF and OIF. According to the Department of Defense, as 
of January 20, for OEF and OIF, 702 servicemembers whose home of record 
is Washington State have been injured. That is 702 injured from my 
State. In addition, 66 servicemembers whose home of record is my home 
State of Washington have paid the ultimate sacrifice. The number is 
even higher when you include those who have a connection to Washington 
State.

Each one of those brave Americans is someone whose mother or father, 
sister or brother, daughter or son, their families are never going to 
be the same. Their communities will never be the same. I offer my 
prayers for those who have sacrificed for our country. We owe them a 
debt that can never fully be repaid.

After nearly 4 years of losses and misrepresentations and 
miscalculations, the American people have said they want a new 
direction in Iraq. Generals have spoken out calling for a new 
direction. The bipartisan Iraq Study Group called for a new direction. 
Yet President Bush has ignored everyone and is now pushing to send even 
more of our American troops into the middle of a civil war. He is 
wrong. And a bipartisan resolution is the first step we can take in 
helping to forge a new direction.

But now what we have is Republicans who are denying the Senate a 
chance to vote for that new direction. In fact, they are preventing the 
Senate from even debating the merits of that direction. They may have 
stopped us from moving forward last night, but they cannot stop this 
debate forever. The American people would not allow it.

If the Republicans stop their obstruction and start allowing the 
Senate to debate this misguided surge proposal, there are plenty of 
questions we have to ask. What would be the impact of a surge? How 
would it affect our men and women in uniform? Will it put more of them 
into the crossfire and cause more deaths and injuries? My home State is 
home to Fort Lewis and two of the Army Stryker Brigades. How is the 
surge going to affect them? Will some members see their current 
deployment extended? Will others see their deployment date moved up? 
Will all of them have the equipment they need when they are there? 
Those are the first questions we have to ask.


How will the surge affect our ability to care for our returning 
veterans? We are having trouble meeting their needs today; how will we 
do the job in an escalated war?

I have heard several Members on the other side demand ideas from 
Democrats, and my first response is simple: To discuss ideas, shouldn't 
we discuss, first, the President's ideas? He is, after all, the 
Commander in Chief. That is the point of the resolutions, to foster a 
debate on the President's plan for the future of Iraq. But the Senate 
Republicans would not allow that. The Republicans' obstruction and the 
President's decision so far have left us with very few options.

I am looking at every resolution and every proposal. I am looking 
forward to having hearings and getting the facts and moving forward in 
a bipartisan way.

Personally, I believe the way forward should include three steps. 
First of all, we should strategically redeploy our troops. Second, we 
should work with Iraq's neighbors and other countries in the area to 
build a regional framework. And third, we need the Iraqis to take 
ownership of their own country and their own future. We can send troops 
for decades and never have a peaceful, stable Iraq until the Iraqi 
people are willing to work together for a purpose that is larger than 
their own tribe or their own sect or their own self.

We need to refocus our efforts on the war on terror, on fighting al-
Qaida, and on addressing the other challenges that threaten our 
security. I am very concerned by the reports we hear about Afghanistan, 
that it is sliding backward and becoming more unstable. Those are some 
of the steps I would take to improve our security. That is the debate 
we ought to be having.

Before I conclude, let me address two concerns. First, some people 
have suggested that if you question the President's policies, you are 
somehow hurting our troops. As the Vice President would say, hogwash. 
Supporting our troops means giving them a clear mission, making sure 
they have the equipment and support they need and making sure we have a 
clear endgame. If any of those critical ingredients are missing, it is 
our duty to question the policy until we provide our troops with what 
they need. Sending more Americans into the middle of a civil war 
without a clear mission, without equipment, without support, without an 
endgame, is endangering our troops, not supporting them.

I don't shrink from war. I voted for the war in Afghanistan. My 
father served in World War II and he was injured in combat. I know war 
is sometimes necessary. But I also know that if we don't answer the 
critical questions, our troops pay the price. For too long, partisans 
have claimed to be speaking for our troops but have blocked the 
discussions that could truly protect them. I say, no more.

Finally, some people say that a nonbinding resolution is not enough. 
And I agree. That is why this is a first step. We can't take the other 
steps until this Congress goes on record, in a bipartisan voice, 
telling the President the surge is wrong. Once we have done that, the 
ball is in the President's court. But today, Senate Republicans


are preventing us from getting there. If he still will not change 
course, we will look at the other tools before us.

Senators have discussed a wide series of steps that we could take. I 
will review all of them. We are also holding hearings to find out what 
options we can take. This is the first step. If the President doesn't 
hear us, we will take the next step. And the next step. And the one 
after that.

I understand that many Americans are frustrated that our troops are 
in the middle of a civil war. I am frustrated. too. I wish we had been 
allowed to start this process, these hearings, these debates and votes 
a long time ago. But we are moving aggressively forward now. Democrats 
have been in charge now for 5 weeks. And already, finally, we are 
having more debates, more hearings, more progress, than we have had in 
the past 3 years. But I can promise you, this is only a beginning.

We can't have these debates if the Republicans are blocking us in an 
open discussion of the war. The Republicans need to stop denying a real 
debate in the Senate, so that together we can move our country in a new 
direction. I believe for us to have an impact, Congress has to speak 
out in a clear, bipartisan voice. We could vote on hundreds of 
resolutions that make us feel better, but that would not help us change 
direction. It is a strong, bipartisan message from Congress to the 
executive branch and to the country that has the power to make 
progress.

I am willing to take the time and do this right and to build the 
support we need so that at the end of the day we can have a real 
impact. I strongly oppose the surge. I believe escalation is the wrong 
direction. I will vote to put the Senate on record opposing the surge 
if the Republicans will end their filibuster. I will continue to fight 
for new direction in Iraq.

For too long, the voices of our troops and our citizens have been 
blocked. Today, Senate Republicans are trying to continue that 
obstruction. I say, no longer. The debate must begin because our 
country will be better for it.

I yield the floor.