# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `a5405110c48c642b1df8293f9847bbd5`
`Mr. KENNEDY â€” 28 March 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer this amendment with my 
colleague Mr. Sestak.

This amendment, Mr. Chairman, would amend the definition of medical 
care under the legislation to include mental health care. Under this 
definition, we measure the quality of health care in our military 
hospitals in order to determine that we ensure that our military 
personnel receive the best possible quality health care in the military 
that they ought to be entitled to. In doing so we ought to make sure 
that mental health care is part of that quality review process. And as 
we know full well, in the wake of this war, too many of our veterans 
coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan have been suffering tremendously 
from wounds that may not be visible from the outside but are wounds 
nonetheless that are equally harmful. They are psychological wounds, 
Mr. Chairman. They are mental health wounds, and they are wounds, 
nonetheless, that need to be treated.



That is why we need to have the best quality mental health care that 
our military can offer, and that is why we want to make sure that when 
it comes to measuring quality health care in this legislation that 
mental health care is also measured as a quality indicator to ensure 
that our military personnel receive the best quality health care that 
they can receive.

On behalf of Mr. Sestak and myself, I move this amendment.