# CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a544f8a51f9da67a42ab6e199bc040ae`
`Mr. PAUL â€” 29 March 2007`

---


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Chairman, the FY 2008 budget is a monument to 
irresponsibility and profligacy. It shows that Congress remains 
oblivious to the economic troubles facing the Nation, and that 
political expediency trumps all common sense in Washington. To the 
extent that proponents and supporters of these unsustainable budget 
increases continue to win reelection, it also shows that many Americans 
unfortunately continue to believe government can provide them with a 
free lunch.

To summarize, Congress proposes spending roughly $3 trillion in 2008. 
When I first came to Congress in 1976, the Federal Government spent 
only about $300 billion. So spending has increased tenfold in 30 years, 
and tripled just since 1990.

About one-third of this $3 trillion is so-called discretionary 
spending; the remaining two-thirds is deemed ''mandatory'' entitlement 
spending, which means mostly Social Security and Medicare. I am sure 
many American voters would be shocked to know their elected 
representatives essentially have no say over two-thirds of the Federal 
budget, but that is indeed the case.

The most disturbing problem with the budget is the utter lack of 
concern for the coming entitlement meltdown. The official national debt 
figure, now approaching $9 trillion, reflects only what the Federal 
Government owes in current debts on money already borrowed. It does not 
reflect what the Federal Government has promised to pay millions of 
Americans in entitlement benefits down the road. Those future 
obligations put our real debt figure at roughly 50 trillion dollars--a 
staggering sum that is about as large as the total household net worth 
of the entire United States. Your share of this 50 trillion amounts to 
about $175,000.

For those who thought a Democratic Congress would end the war in 
Iraq, think again: their new budget proposes supplemental funds 
totaling about $150 billion in 2008 and $50 billion in 2009 for Iraq. 
This is in addition to the ordinary Department of Defense budget of 
more than $500 billion, which the Democrats propose increasing each 
year just like the Republicans.

The substitute Republican budget is not much better: while it does 
call for freezing some discretionary spending next year, it increases 
military spending to make up the difference. The bottom line is that 
both the Democratic and Republican budget proposals call for more total 
spending in 2008 than 2007.

My message to my colleagues is simple: If you claim to support 
smaller government, don't introduce budgets that increase spending over 
the previous year. Can any fiscal conservative in Congress honestly 
believe that overall federal spending cannot be cut 25 percent? We 
could cut spending by two-thirds and still have a Federal Government as 
large as it was in 1990.

Congressional budgets essentially are meaningless documents, with no 
force of law beyond the coming fiscal year. Thus budget projections are 
nothing more than political posturing, designed to justify deficit 
spending in the near term by promising fiscal restraint in the future. 
But the time for thrift never seems to arrive: there is always some new 
domestic or foreign emergency that requires more spending than 
projected.

Nobody in Washington will look back 5 years from now and exclaim, 
''Gee whiz, back in 2007 we promised to balance the budget by 2012, so 
I guess we better stick to that pledge and stop spending so much this 
year.'' The only certainty when it comes to Federal budgets is that 
Congress will spend every penny budgeted and more during the fiscal 
year in question. All projections about revenues, tax rates, and 
spending in the future are nothing more than empty promises. Congress 
will pay no attention whatsoever to the 2008 budget in coming years.

We should not let the debate over numbers distract us from the 
fundamental yet unspoken issues inherent in any budget proposal: What 
is the proper role for government in our society? Are the programs, 
agencies, and departments funded in the budget proposal constitutional? 
Are they effective? Could they operate with a smaller budget? Would the 
public even notice if certain items were eliminated altogether? These 
are the kinds of questions the American people should ask, even if 
Congress lacks the courage to apply any principles whatsoever to the 
budget process.