# THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY
## `a54708f327ed35870cbd78895da6be77`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 23 January 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You're right. You're right.

I was talking earlier before you walked in on cloture. I believe it's 
called cloture in the Senate, and it's an old French word for closure. 
You hear it all the time, but you don't necessarily know the meaning of 
it. It sounds like it was something as it relates to clothes, but 
that's what it means in English pretty much.

And I think that when we look at this issue and the fact that we 
always get to the point where even when we get our act together here in 
the House, it's either one or two Chambers. It's either the House or 
the Senate.

Let's look at the SCHIP override. The Senate has a veto-proof vote in 
the Senate: 68 Senators voting in the affirmative for SCHIP.

In the House, we fall short. I think here in the House that we may 
very well have the kind of bipartisanship we need to get this economic 
stimulus package passed. But in the Senate, I'm concerned. I'm very 
concerned because you have 51 Democrats and you are going to need 9 
Republican Senators, and I'm hoping, just hoping, that we are able to 
get the nine for it to be true bipartisanship. So that means the 
Republican leader is just as important as the Democratic leader, and we 
are trying to move this process through.

And I think that we need to pay very close attention, and also pay 
attention to what is being said in the Senate, what's being said here 
in the House because this piece of legislation is too important. I 
don't think that Democrats can hang their hat and say, ''We passed the 
legislation to stimulate the economy.'' I don't think the Republicans 
can say it without saying Democrats, vice versa. So I think that is 
important that we pay attention. And I keep saying that because I know 
that in this building, and we are talking about the 500-plus Members of 
Congress and all of our great ideas that we may have, coming to the 
table with an amendment or making a procedural move through any one of 
the said committees could very well derail this spirit that we have.

We have a war that's going on in Iraq. As of today, we have 3,929 
individuals that have lost their lives in Iraq, and we have had a 
number of them wounded in action, 15,996. And we have those families 
that are living in this economy.