---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a54ca9c6b77df9b258bff24022e0eee5`
`Mr. OBEY — 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Madam Chairman, I will make the same observation as I made 
last night. What we have going on here, in my judgment, is Operation 
Diversion. You have a bunch of people in this House who are perfectly 
comfortable with the fact that the tax policies that they have voted 
for will deliver $57 billion in tax cuts this year to people who make 
over a million dollars a year. That is five times as much money as the 
increase that we have in this bill above the President's request.

And you have people who have voted for the war in Iraq, which has 
spent $600 billion in a case of mistaken identity as they mistook the 
stocky guy with the mustache, Saddam Hussein, for the tall guy with the 
beard, Osama bin Laden, and that mistake has cost us $600 billion when 
you take into account the President's newest request. That is 60 times 
as much as the addition we have above the President's budget for these 
programs.

They voted for all of that, and now they want to scramble away from 
the deficits and the debt that that has produced. And they try to 
divert the attention of the public and say, oh, the real cause of our 
fiscal mess is the fact that these crazy Democrats are trying to put 
more money into education and more money into health care and more 
money into job training.

Well, I plead fully guilty. We are trying to do that because yes, we 
do believe that these are investments. We think that kids are better 
off if you put more money into education than if you take it away. And 
we think society is better off economically and morally if we do more 
to help people who need health care than less.

Now this amendment would cut the following amounts from the bill: It 
would cut $128 million from this bill for No Child Left Behind.

It would cut $74 million from Title I.

It would cut $56 million from IDEA. Republicans and Democrats alike 
have spent the last 2 days trying to increase funds for IDEA; now they 
want to cut it back by $56 million.

They want to cut from this bill $78 million for Pell Grants, despite 
the fact that college costs have exploded.

They want to cut $148 million from this bill for the National 
Institutes of Health.

They want to cut $48 million from this bill for the Social Security 
Administration.

They want to cut $69 million from this bill out of programs that we 
have here to try to discourage women from having abortions. Now if they 
want to vote for that, be my guest. We don't happen to think, and I 
think there are significant numbers of our friends on the minority side 
of the aisle who don't happen to think that is a good idea.

We do have to make choices, and the basic choices here are do we want 
to defend the 2 percent increase in these programs above the 
President's level, because that is what it is, it is a 2 percent 
difference. And if you don't believe my definition, then take a look at 
CQ and National Journal because that is the way they define it.

Do you want to put 2 percent more into the health and education of 
the country, into the training of our workforce, or do you instead want 
to use it for additional money in Iraq and additional money for tax 
cuts for the most wealthy people in this country, most of whom would 
gladly see a reduction in their take if we could improve the quality of 
our workforce and the quality of our education and the quality of our 
law enforcement?

I plead fully guilty to agreeing with them, and I would ask for a 
''no'' vote on the amendment.