# REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS
## `a55587767d528fe65482a704eacaf808`
`Mr. GINGREY — 10 September 2007`

---


Mr. GINGREY. I hope not, I say to the gentleman from Missouri. I 
think if you look at their funding trail though you would find that 
they haven't contributed probably too much support in any way, shape, 
or form to Republican Members.

But hears what they say about General Petraeus: ''General Petraeus is 
a military man constantly at war with the facts. In 2004, just before 
the election, he said there was 'tangible progress' in Iraq and that 
'Iraqi leaders are stepping forward.'

''And last week Petraeus, the architect of the escalation of troops 
in Iraq, said 'We say we have achieved progress, and we are obviously 
going to do everything we can to build on that progress.' ''

Then their final paragraph, I skipped the middle one, they say: 
''Most importantly, General Petraeus will not admit what everyone 
knows: Iraq is mired in an unwinnable religious civil war. We may hear 
of a plan to withdraw a few thousand American troops.

''But we won't hear what Americans are desperate to hear: a timetable 
for withdrawing all our troops, General Petraeus has actually said, 
will need to stay in Iraq for as long as 10 years.''

Finally, they say, MoveOn.org, today, before Congress and before the 
American people, General Petraeus is likely to become General Betray 
Us.

In conclusion, as the majority leader said a few minutes ago, before 
we walked out on the steps, to commemorate and honor the American 
people on the sixth anniversary of that tragedy of 9/11, we did that in 
a bipartisan way. This is not a political argument that we bring to the 
floor tonight, and this business, if we are winning in Iraq, the 
Democrats lose. If we are losing in Iraq, the Democrats win. If we are 
winning in Iraq, the Republicans win. This is not about who wins 
politically. This is for the American people.

We are going to win. We are going to let victory have a chance. We 
are not just simply blindly staying the course.

In regard to this surge, this is exactly what the Iraq Study Group, 
Lee Hamilton and former Secretary James Baker, recommended to the 
Congress; and this is what the President has done.

I commend him for it. I think we are making progress; but there is, 
indeed, as the gentleman from Missouri said, light at the end of the 
tunnel, a bright light. We need to give victory a chance.
