# None
## `a55a3f4ef8b943b8ee0b9d6ea33294e3`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. If the Chair would let me know when I have 1 minute.

Mr. President, maybe we could take a moment and look at those words 
that are written in stone right above the Vice President's chair there: 
e pluribus unum, meaning one out of many. One out of many. That is the 
desire, that is the hope, that is the dream of this country: one out of 
many.

Many come from different traditions, backgrounds, and experience, but 
we all are one country with one history and one destiny--not with the 
Bond amendment, not with the Bond amendment.

The lines written at the Statue of Liberty are:




 Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning 


 to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. 


 Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me. I lift my 


 lamp beside the golden door!


That is right, as long as those individuals are working and who will 
never become citizens, who will never have that right to become a part 
of the American dream, and once you stop working, out of the country 
you go. Better gather up all of your belongings, because you are going 
to be out of status, and out of status means you can be subject to 
deportation.

You can imagine what that individual is going to say to their 
employer when the employer says: Sure, you have worked 40 hours. You 
work 50 hours, 60 hours, and bring your wife in and make sure she works 
overtime this week as well; otherwise, you are out of status. You are 
out of here.

That is what the Bond amendment would do to Americans. One America 
that has rights and privileges, and to a second group in America they 
say: Once we wring out of you the last bit of sweat that you can give 
to some employer, you are finished, you are out of status, you are 
deportable.

That isn't what this country is about. Maybe we don't like the fact 
that people are not satisfied with the regime we have given or 
recommended in this legislation that says: You go to the back of the 
line. You came here because you wanted to work, because you wanted to 
provide for your family; you came here, and you are at church on the 
weekends; and you came here and your son or daughter is serving in Iraq 
or Afghanistan. But we say: OK, you go to the end of the line, pay a 
fee, learn English, and you have to demonstrate that you are working 
and you are going to become a good American. That isn't good enough for 
some.

Well, Mr. President, this creates the two Americas, which I think all 
of us understand is not what this Nation is about. That is the result 
of the Bond amendment, and I think it would be a major step backward. 
We can imagine the resentment and hostility that will seethe and grow 
with generations that come with their families when they see them 
exploited. Talk about a danger and social dynamite in our society, this 
amendment will breed that. We don't need that or want it, Mr. 
President. We should not have it. I hope the amendment is not accepted.

I reserve the remainder of my time.