---
---

# FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a56ae4aef9827250b81c724830360238`
`Mr. SERRANO — 28 June 2007`

---


Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I truly do apologize if the gentlewoman thought that 
the word ''cast'' was improper. I will speak to our Hollywood friends 
and ask them if it's improper to have a cast of individuals. It could 
be a cast of bad characters, or a cast of good characters. I am sure it 
is a cast of very dedicated folks who have a point to make and are 
trying to make it.



As far as whether or not we live away from our districts, any time 
that anyone on that side wants to compare backgrounds to how I grew up 
and how I got here and why I thank the good Lord that I am here every 
day, we can debate which public housing any member of the Republican 
Party grew up in, as I did, where they were born and how they grew up. 
So I take great pride in the fact that I managed to keep in touch, 
because it is very hard to lose your roots once you get to a certain 
place.

Now, the other thing we hear all the time is that whenever we say 
that we are wasting money in Iraq, that somehow is an insult on the 
troops. The greatest support we can give our troops is to bring them 
home tomorrow morning. That is the true support.

I want to see folks, 2, 3, 4, 5 years from now, when we have to pick 
up the tab and, rightfully so, deal with the wounded who come back from 
Iraq, if we are going to be standing here also trying to cut budgets 
the way we are now. But I suspect that it will be the same way that it 
happened after the Gulf War, where the folks who were all hot and 
bothered about sending folks off to war then didn't want to put any 
money into the Veterans' Administration or for services for our troops.

So using a phrase that my chairman would use, Mr. Obey, don't lecture 
me, don't lecture any of us, on who cares for the troops. We all care 
for the troops. I would never question whether you care for the troops. 
It is just that we differ. You think that you care for the troops by 
keeping them there for as long as they have to be there, which may be 
10 more years. I care for the troops by bringing them home tomorrow 
morning.

Lastly, it was my city that saw the largest part of the terrorist 
attack on September 11. The gentlewoman said we are in Iraq because we 
were attacked.

No. We are in Afghanistan, which I voted for us going there, because 
we


were attacked. We are in Iraq because we were lied to and half the 
Congress believed it. And now no one, not even the administration, 
admits in any way, shape or form that Saddam Hussein or anything that 
happened in Iraq had anything to do with September 11th.

The American people know that. They may think that we have to stay 
there a little longer. They may have whatever opinion they have. But 
the American people know that there is no relationship between Iraq and 
September 11th, and that is a fact. So we can continue to talk about 
how we have to keep spending this money. Not true.

This cut is a devastating cut to this bill. This bill is a 
responsible bill. This bill did what you claim you wanted to do. It 
came in below the President's request. I haven't heard one person get 
up and say, ''My God, the President wanted more than Serrano. Serrano 
gave less than the President wanted, so he did pretty good, because 
boy, that President is a big spender.''

No. He continues to be the fiscal conservative, and somehow we are 
the big spenders.

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.