---
---

# STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
## `a571b4c9ca4b6fba87473c5932c5ff27`
`Mr. KERRY — 31 January 2007`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, today Senator Smith and I are introducing 
the Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007. This legislation will 
help those who are valiantly serving their country and the families 
that they leave behind.

The best definition of patriotism is keeping faith with those who 
wear the uniform of our country. That means giving our troops the 
resources they need to keep them safe while they are protecting us. And 
it means supporting our troops at home as well as abroad.

Currently, there are over 132,000 military personnel serving in Iraq 
and more are on the way. There are approximately 22,100 U.S. 
servicemembers in Afghanistan. Many of these men and women are 
reservists and have been called to activity duty, frequently for 
multiple tours. Often they own, or are employed, by a small business 
and their activation results in hardship for the business.

Small businesses with less than 100 employees employ about 18 percent 
of all reservists who hold civilian jobs. Most large businesses have 
the resources to provide supplemental income to reservist employees 
called up and to replace them with temporary employees. I applaud the 
businesses that have been able to pay supplemental income to their 
reservists, but it is not easy for small businesses to do the same.

Earlier today, the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee held 
a hearing on veterans' small business issues. A majority of our 
veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are Reserve and National 
Guard members--35 percent of whom are either self-employed or own or 
are employed by a small business.

We heard some disturbing statistics about the impact and unintended 
consequences the callup of reservists is having on small businesses. 
According to a January 2007 survey conducted by Workforce Management, 
54 percent of the businesses surveyed responded that they would not 
hire a citizen soldier if they knew that they could be called up for an 
indeterminate amount of time. I am concerned that long callups have 
made it hard for small businesses to be supportive of civilian 
soldiers.

The Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007 provides a tax credit 
to small businesses with fewer than 100 employees and the self-employed 
to help with the cost of paying the salary of their reservist employees 
when they are called to active duty. This legislation also provides an 
additional tax credit to help offset the cost of hiring temporary 
employees to fill vacancies left by the servicemembers.

Many reservists who own their own business return from duty to find 
that their business is floundering. These tax credits will help 
reservists who own their own businesses to hire temporary employees for 
the duration of their tour as well as to assist small businesses deal 
with the impact of having an essential employee called up for active 
duty.

In addition to helping small businesses, the Active Duty Military Tax 
Relief of 2007 addresses concerns related to differential military pay, 
income tax withholding, and retirement plan participation. These 
provisions will make it easier for employers who would like to pay 
their employees supplemental income, above their military pay, and make 
pension contributions. Our legislation would make differential military 
pay subject to Federal income tax withholding. In addition, with 
respect to the retirement plan rules, the bill provides that a person 
receiving differential military pay would be treated as an employee of 
the employer making the payment and allows the differential military 
pay to be treated as compensation.

This bill also attempts to mitigate the financial strains placed on 
our military families while the family member is deployed. To help ease 
some of this burden, the Active Duty Military Tax Relief Act of 2007 
would increase the standard deduction for active duty military 
personnel by $1,000 for 2007 and 2008. In addition, this legislation 
would make permanent the existing provision which allows taxpayers to 
include combat pay as earned income for purposes of the earned income 
tax credit (EITC). Without this provision some military families would 
no longer be eligible to receive the EITC because combat pay is 
currently not taxable.

Last Congress, Senator Smith and I introduced the Fallen Heroes 
Family Savings Act, which we have incorporated into the Active Duty 
Military Tax Relief Act. This provision provides tax relief for the 
death gratuity payment that is given to families that have lost a loved 
one in combat. This payment is currently $100,000.

Our current tax laws do not allow the recipients of this payment to 
use it to make contributions to tax-preferred saving accounts that help 
with saving for retirement, health care, or the costs of education. Our 
legislation would allow military death gratuities to be contributed to 
certain tax-preferred accounts. These contributions would be treated as 
qualified rollovers. The contribution limits of these accounts will not 
be applied to these contributions.

Our service men and women need to know that we are honoring their 
valor by taking care of those they leave behind. Helping ease the tax 
burden on the death gratuity will enable military families to save more 
for retirement, education, and health care by allowing them to put the 
payment in an account in which the earnings will accumulate tax-free.

These changes to our tax laws will help our military families with 
some of their financial burdens. It cannot repay the sacrifices they 
have made for us, but it is a small way we can support our troops and 
their families at home as well as abroad.

The National Military Family Association, the Reserve Officers 
Association, and The Military Coalition (a consortium of veterans and 
military organizations representing more than 5.5 million members plus 
their families and survivors) support this legislation.

I ask unanimous consent that the text of this legislation be printed 
in the Record.