---
---

# THE ECONOMY AND OUR FREEDOM
## `a590c01651be762b8fb2b29d5d557508`
`Mr. AKIN — 3 March 2009`

---


Mr. AKIN. Madam Speaker, I'm just delighted to be able to join you 
here this evening and join my fellow colleagues in talking about some 
really, really exciting and important topics. The first we're going to 
talk about this evening is the economy and a little bit of the 
background on what's going on, where we've come from, where we should 
be going in the future. The second topic is going to be the topic of 
freedom.

One of the things that I have a chance to do is speaking to many 
audiences is to ask them, what is it that makes America such a special 
place? Why is it that we love our country so much? And our country is 
so unique in so many different ways. What is the secret to that unique 
nature of America? And the word that always comes out is the word 
''freedom.'' It's right near the front of the tongue for most 
Americans. We're going to be talking a bit about the subject of freedom 
tonight.

But before we do, we do need to take a look at the economy, what's 
going on there, and what's happened in the past and use that as 
somewhat of a guide as to where we should be going in the future.

The economy, of course, works on numbers. And numbers, you can't 
cheat with them too much. People try to, but the bottom line is, 
somebody ends up having to pay.

And so what we have here, going on in Washington, DC in the last 
number of weeks has really been incredible. We've charted absolutely 
new territory, I think irresponsibly. And we have heard for the last 6 
years about the tremendous cost of the war in Iraq, how we're wasting 
money there every single day. And yet, if you add up the entire cost of 
the war in Iraq, which we now concede is largely won, you take those 6 
years of costs, add them to the cost of what we spent in Afghanistan, 
add those together now, and it's not as much as what we spent in the 
first five weeks here in this Chamber in this supposedly stimulus bill. 
Many people are calling it a ''porkulous'' bill.

And so how is it that the economy got to the point that it would 
cause people to go into debt so tremendously, spend so much money?

Well, the story really goes back a number of years. It goes back to 
the Carter administration and really the creation of Freddie Mac and 
Fannie Mae. What happened was there were areas where it was very 
difficult for Americans to get home loans, and there were places where 
banks didn't really want to loan to people for fear that they wouldn't 
be paid back. And so the Federal Government created Freddie and Fannie, 
and those organizations are neither private nor public. They're 
somewhere halfway in between. And so Freddie and Fannie were given 
authority to help underwrite people's home loans and, actually other 
kinds of loans as well, but primarily for home loans.

Well, as time went along, various Presidents started demanding that 
Freddie and Fannie make more and more loans to people who would be 
considered subprime, or that's a way of saying not as good a risk. And 
so by the time that we had President Clinton, toward the end of his 
tenure as President, he required an increase in the percentage of loans 
that Freddie and Fannie were going to make to people who were 
considered to be not very good risk kinds of loans. And so, what 
happened was, you have Freddie and Fannie now underwriting more and 
more loans, and you started to get a snowballing kind of effect.

At that time, in 1999, the New York Times, in its editorial page 
reported, I believe it was September, that several people mentioned 
that this is not safe, that we are starting to create the environment 
for another savings and loan disaster in America. This is 1999, people 
were warning that this policy was not a good one.

Was it a free enterprise policy?

People say the reason the economy is bad, it shows the weakness of 
free enterprise. No, it doesn't. What's created the problem with our 
economy has nothing to do with free enterprise. It's socialistic 
programs of government jumping in and telling banks and economists that 
you have to take loans which we think there's a very good chance people 
will not pay back.

Well, as the 1999 article in the New York Times indicated, this was a 
risky thing. As we move forward, we have Greenspan then reducing the 
interest rate, the economy getting stronger and stronger, the housing 
market just going up and up and up, increasing at a tremendous rate. In 
fact, if you looked at its rate of increase historically, you would 
have to start to worry that it might have been a bubble building.

Well, by 2003 we have President Bush. And President Bush has come to 
the Congress. He says, hey, this is reported in a September 11, 2003, 
article, again in the New York Times, saying, I need authority to 
regulate Freddie and Fannie. We have got big trouble with Freddie and 
Fannie. They are making all of these loans and if the real estate 
market comes down some there is going to be the dickens to pay. You 
have got to allow me to get Freddie and Fannie regulated.

And in the President's request, the Congress, in those days, run by 
the Republicans, passed a bill to regulate Freddie and Fannie. They 
sent the bill to the Senate, where it was killed, according to this 
article, by the Democrats in the Senate.

Now, you have, in that very article that's quoted here, the New York 
Times, September 11, 2003, this is the Congressman now who is in charge 
of fixing the problem that was created, basically, another savings and 
loan type of problem. These two entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
are not facing any kind of financial crisis, said Representative Barney 
Frank of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services 
Committee. The more people exaggerate these problems, the more pressure 
there is on these companies, the less we will see in terms of 
affordable housing.

Now, in looking out the back window, looking through history, we see,


Barney Frank was totally wrong. Freddie and Fannie are the heart of 
what has fallen apart and created a world economic crisis. The crisis 
is created by defaulting mortgages, and as that mortgage crisis has 
spread and continues to spread in the next couple of years, this is 
what's been driving the bad economy.

So there's an irony here that the person from the House that's in 
charge of fixing the problem is the one who created the problem. Maybe 
there's some humor in there somewhere, I suppose.

So I think we need to correct the rhetoric of various people that say 
that this is a failure of free enterprise. It's not. It's a failure of 
a big government program that was poorly managed, and it's like trying 
to make a dollar out of 15 cents.



You can't give people mortgages when they're not going to pay the 
mortgages.

Of course, it was more than just the Democrats. I'm not blaming this 
entirely on the Democrats. It was the start of a failure of Congress. 
Beyond the failure of Congress, you also had other culpable parties. 
You had some of the people who were rating, some of the rating 
agencies--Moody's and Standard and Poor's--and they were rating these 
mortgage securities that would have been chopped up and sold all over 
the world. They were rating them AAA. Now, how they could do that with 
a straight face, I don't know, but they fed again on the Wall Street 
tremendous level of speculation. So that's how we got where we are.

Now the question is: Now that we've gotten ourselves a first-rate 
recession going, what are the things that should be done to try to fix 
the recession?

There are two basic schools of thought on this subject. One of them 
is known as Keynesianism. It was made popular around the days of FDR. 
Also, it was something that was very much supported by Henry 
Morgenthau, who we're going to talk about in just a minute.

I do see my very good friend, Congresswoman Foxx, from North 
Carolina, a lady who has won all kinds of accolades in the last year or 
two. We think of her a little bit as the toughest grandmother in the 
entire U.S. Congress, and if there's anybody who is pretty long in what 
we in Missouri respect, which is commonsense, Congresswoman Foxx is 
certainly long in that.

I would yield the floor to you, gentlelady.