---
---

# MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2007
## `a59482bd0cc99918f4fba2a5a5ffc6d1`
`Mr. SANDERS — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, the Federal budget is more than a long 
list of numbers which, in this case, adds up to about $2.9 trillion. 
The Federal budget, similar to any family budget or any company budget, 
is a statement of values and priorities. In fact, the Federal budget, 
in many ways, is a statement of what our country is all about.

We would all find it irresponsible and strange if a family we knew 
spent all of its money on an expensive vacation but forgot to put aside 
money for the mortgage or the rent and suddenly the family and their 
kids found themselves out on the street. We would say: My goodness, 
that is irresponsible. The family was spending money where they 
shouldn't have been and not spending it where they should.

Preparing the Federal budget and analyzing the Federal budget is 
exactly the same process. It is about spending the money of the people 
of the United States of America. It is about deciding where we should 
spend it and where we should not spend it. It is looking at the 
American people as a family. It is about taking a hard look at the 
needs of our people and prioritizing the budget in an intelligent and a 
rational way.

Let me take a quick glance at the economic reality facing the middle 
class, the working families of our country, tens and tens of millions 
of Americans and their kids.

Since President Bush has been in office, more than 5 million 
Americans have slipped into poverty, including over 1 million children. 
Not only does the United States of America have the highest rate of 
poverty of any major country on Earth, we also shamefully have the 
highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world, with 
almost 18 percent of our children living in poverty. Today, 37 million 
Americans live in poverty and 13 million are children.

Last year, in the richest Nation in the history of the world, 35 
million of our fellow Americans struggled to put food on the table. The 
Agriculture Department recently reported that the number of the 
poorest, hungriest Americans keep rising. In America today, hunger is a 
growing problem.

We have a crisis in our Nation in terms of affordable housing. 
Millions of working families in my State of Vermont and all over this 
country are paying 50 to 60 percent of their limited incomes for 
housing. And there are, as we well know, other families who are either 
living in their cars or living out on the streets--in some cases, with 
their children--in America.

Last year, there were 1.2 million home foreclosures in this country, 
an increase of 42 percent since 2005.

The cost of energy has rapidly risen since President Bush has been in 
office. Oil prices have more than doubled and gasoline prices have gone 
up by 70 percent since January of 2001. This increase in energy prices, 
in gas prices, is putting a huge strain on people from all over this 
country, including workers from rural States such as Vermont, who have 
to travel long distances to get to their jobs.

As is well known, many middle-class families in our country today are 
finding it increasingly difficult to afford the escalating costs of a 
college education with average tuition and other costs increasing 
rapidly with the result that many families are now saying: We can't 
send our kids to college, while other young people are graduating 
college deeply in debt.

In America today, millions of our workers are working longer hours 
for lower wages, and median income for working-age families has 
declined for 5 years in a row. Today, incredible as it may sound, the 
personal savings rate is below zero, which has not happened since the 
Great Depression. In other words, all over this country working people 
and people in the middle class are purchasing groceries, they are 
purchasing gas at the pump, they are purchasing other basic necessities 
through their credit cards and, in the process, are going deeper and 
deeper into debt.

Over the last 6 years, we have lost in this country 3 million 
manufacturing jobs, often good-paying manufacturing jobs, including 
10,000 in my small State of Vermont. Many of the new jobs that are 
available to those displaced workers, if they are lucky enough to find 
new jobs, will pay wages and benefits substantially lower than the jobs 
they have lost.

It is no secret that in America today our health care system is 
disintegrating. There is little dispute about that. Health care costs 
are soaring. Today, we have 46.6 million Americans with zero health 
insurance, an increase of 6.8 million since President Bush has been in 
office.

Today, 3 million fewer American workers have pension coverage than 
when President Bush took office and


half of private-sector American workers have no pension coverage 
whatsoever.

Throughout our country, American workers who now work the longest 
hours of any people in the industrialized world--husbands working long 
hours, wives working long hours, people being stressed out by having to 
work so hard to earn the living they need to pay for their basic 
needs--are finding it harder and harder to come up with jobs, to get 
jobs which provide them a decent amount of vacation time. The 2-week 
vacation is something many workers no longer can have in this country.

While the middle class is shrinking and while poverty is increasing 
in our country, there is another reality taking place. That is that the 
wealthiest 1 percent, the people at the very top of the economic 
ladder, have not had it so good since the 1920s. The middle class is 
shrinking, poverty is increasing, and the people on the top are doing 
phenomenally well.

According to Forbes magazine, the selective net worth of the 
wealthiest 400 Americans increased by $120 billion last year to $1.25 
trillion; 400 families, $1.25 trillion in worth. The 400 wealthiest 
Americans are worth an unbelievable amount of money and their wealth is 
soaring.

Sadly, however, the United States today has the most unfair 
distribution of wealth and income of any major country and the gap 
between the very wealthy and everyone else is growing wider. This was a 
country formed around egalitarian principles--we are all in it 
together. When one goes up, others go up. Yet what we are seeing today 
in an almost unprecedented way is the people on the top making out like 
bandits, earning huge increases in their incomes, in their wealth, 
while the middle class shrinks and poverty is increasing.

Today the wealthiest 13,000 families in our country own nearly as 
much income as do the bottom 20 million families. That is 13,000 
compared to 20 million. And the wealthiest 1 percent own more wealth 
than the bottom 90 percent.

I have given a brief sketch of the economy in terms of how it impacts 
the middle class and working families of our country. Let me, within 
that context of what is happening to tens of millions of Americans, 
take a look at the President's budget.

At a time of a major health care crisis, with more and more Americans 
uninsured or underinsured, the President's budget would cut Medicare 
and Medicaid by $280 billion over the next decade, lowering the quality 
of health care for approximately 43 million senior citizens and people 
with disabilities who depend on Medicare and more than 50 million 
Americans who rely on Medicaid.


At a time when our childcare and early childhood education system are 
totally inadequate to meet the needs of working parents, the Bush 
budget reduces the number of children receiving childcare assistance by 
300,000. Childcare in crisis. The President's response: Deny childcare 
to 300,000 children.

In addition, the President's budget provides a $100 million cut for 
the Head Start program at a time when only about one-half of the 
children eligible for this important and excellent program actually 
participate in it due to a lack of funding. Huge numbers of kids cannot 
get into Head Start. The President's response: Cut Head Start funding.

While hunger in this country, as I mentioned earlier, is shamefully 
increasing, the President's budget denies food stamps to 280,000 
families and eliminates nutrition assistance to over 400,000 senior 
citizens, mothers, and newborn children.

We are in a war in Iraq. We are in a war in Afghanistan. The number 
of our veterans is increasing. Twenty-two thousand have been wounded, 
many seriously. Many will come back to this country with post-traumatic 
stress disorder. Yet the President has significantly cut funding for 
the VA over a period of years, and some years ago made hundreds of 
thousands of veterans ineligible to get VA health care.

In this great country, with so many people struggling desperately to 
keep their heads above water, we should not be cutting back on health 
care. We should not be cutting back on nutritional benefits. We should 
not be cutting back on Head Start, affordable housing, the needs of our 
veterans, and educational opportunities for middle-class families. That 
is what we should not be doing.

This is especially true when the President's budget provides $739 
billion in tax breaks over the next decade to households with incomes 
exceeding $1 million per year. The average tax break for this group of 
millionaires will total $162,000 by the year 2012.

Let me be very blunt. In my view it is wrong, in my view it is 
immoral to give huge tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires--the 
people who need them the least--while cutting back on the needs of the 
middle-class and working families of our country. That is wrong.

Is this budget, the President's budget, a reflection of the values of 
the people of our country? I do not believe that. I do not believe 
ordinary Americans think it is right and appropriate to give tax breaks 
to billionaires and then provide inadequately for our veterans, for our 
children, and for our seniors. That is not, in my view, what America is 
about.

We are told over and over again we do not have the money to reduce 
childhood poverty in this country. We are told we do not have the funds 
to wipe out the disgrace of hunger in America. We are told we do not 
have enough money to make sure the young people who graduate from high 
school in this country, who are excited about going to college, will be 
able to do so without coming out deeply in debt.

We do not have the money to help those families. Yet--yet--while we 
turn our backs on the middle-class and working families of our country, 
it appears we have plenty of money for the millionaires and 
billionaires of this country. We have tens of billions, in fact, to 
shower on those who need it the least, yet we have nothing, and we are 
cutting back on the programs, for those who need it most.

Included in the President's budget, amazingly, is the complete repeal 
of the estate tax which would take effect at the end of 2010. As you 
know, the complete repeal of this tax would benefit only the top two-
tenths of 1 percent of the American people. Let me repeat that. The 
complete repeal of the estate tax would benefit solely the upper two-
tenths of 1 percent of the American population.

These are families, of course, who already are millionaires and 
billionaires, and these are families who in the current economy have 
been doing exceedingly well. In other words, 99.8 percent of Americans 
would not benefit by one nickel from the complete repeal of the estate 
tax, as proposed by the President.

According to the President's budget, this repeal of the estate tax 
would reduce receipts for the Treasury by more than $91 billion over 
the next 5 years and more than $442 billion over the next decade. But 
the long-term damage to our fiscal solvency is even worse.

According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, repealing 
the estate tax would cost over $1 trillion from 2012 to 2021--over $1 
trillion. In other words, if the President's plan to permanently repeal 
the estate tax succeeds, the children and family members of the very 
few most privileged families in America will reap a massive tax break. 
Instead of closing the gap between the rich and the poor, instead of 
addressing the huge national debt and deficit problems we have, we make 
both situations worse by fully repealing the estate tax.


I have brought with me a few charts to demonstrate who are the 
winners and losers in the President's budget. Obviously, fortunes go up 
and down, and we do not know what anyone is going to be worth tomorrow, 
let alone in the coming years. And the estimates I am giving to you and 
the charts I am using are based on two reports.

The first is an April 2006 report by United for a Fair Economy and 
Public Citizen, entitled ''Spending Millions to Save Billions,'' 
reflecting the financial position of the wealthiest 400 Americans in 
this country as compiled by Forbes magazine from the year 2005.

The second is a May 30, 2006 report from the House Government Reform 
Committee, entitled ''Estimated Tax Savings of Oil Company CEOs.''

Of course, no one can predict what the numbers will be in the years 
to


come. But these are the best figures available to us at this time.

Let me go to the first chart. The granddaddy of all of the winners 
under the Bush budget is none other than the heirs to the Wal-Mart 
fortune. If the estate tax was completely repealed, the entire Walton 
family would receive an estimated tax break of $32.7 billion--that is 
with a ''B''--$32.7 billion in tax relief for one family which today 
happens to be one of the wealthiest families in this country already.

Meanwhile, in contrast, the President's budget proposes to cut 
Medicaid by $28 billion over the next decade, driving up the cost of 
health care for tens of millions of Americans. In other words, while 
one of the wealthiest families in this country gets a tax break of over 
$30 billion, tens of millions of Americans--children, seniors--will 
suffer. Now, that may make sense to someone, that may appear to be fair 
to someone, but it sure does not make sense to me. In other words, if 
the President's proposed budget passes, millions of Americans will 
lose, including some of the most vulnerable people in our country, 
while one very wealthy family wins.

A second major beneficiary of the President's tax cuts is the heirs 
of the Mars candy bar fortune. Now, I like Snickers as much as anybody. 
And I do not want to be seen here as attacking Snickers, one of the 
basic food groups of American society. But the family that owns Mars is 
slated to receive an estimated $11.7 billion tax break if the estate 
tax is fully repealed.

Mr. President, $11.7 billion for the Mars family. They are winners. 
Yet, who are the losers? As I mentioned earlier, all over this country 
there are waiting lines for veterans to get into VA hospitals. We are 
not keeping our promises to the veterans. Veterans lose while one 
family wins big time. I think that is wrong.

Another major winner in the President's budget is the Cox family. 
They are the heirs to the Cox cable fortune. They will gain $9.7 
billion if the estate tax is repealed. Meanwhile, while the Cox family 
would receive almost $10 billion in tax breaks, the President wants to 
cut funding for education by $1.5 billion.

The President keeps talking about No Child Left Behind while his 
budget continues to leave, in fact, millions of children behind. In 
Vermont and all over this country, school districts are struggling with 
grossly inadequate funding for special education, which the President 
also wants to cut. We do not have the money to fund special education 
to improve public education in America. We do not have that money. But 
we do have $9.7 billion for one family, the Mars family.

Another major beneficiary of the President's budget is the Nordstrom 
family, owners of the upscale department store chain. By repealing the 
estate tax, the Nordstrom family stands to receive an estimated $826 
million tax break, according to the April 2006 report from United for a 
Fair Economy. Tax breaks of over $800 million for an enormously wealthy 
family, and yet we see a $630 million cut in the President's budget for 
the Community Services Block Grant Program.

As you know, the Community Services Block Grant Program provides the 
infrastructure necessary to deliver services to 15 million of the 
lowest income people in our country. These are people who are hungry. 
When they are hungry, they go to the community action program. When 
they are homeless, they go to the community action program. When they 
do not have any money to buy food, they go to the community action 
program. We are going to cut back on that program, but we do have $826 
million in tax breaks for the Nordstrom family.

Another major beneficiary of the Bush budget is the family of Ernest 
Gallo, who would receive a $468 million tax break--$468 million. 
Meanwhile, the President proposes to cut $420 million from the Low-
Income Home Energy Assistance Program, the LIHEAP program.

According to the latest available data, 5.4 million senior citizens 
on fixed incomes and low-income families with kids receive help paying 
their heating bills through this program each and every year. In the 
State of Vermont, trust me, it gets very cold, and we have a lot of 
people in Vermont and throughout this country who are dependent upon 
the LIHEAP program. But, as a nation, the President suggests: No, no, 
we have to cut $420 million from LIHEAP, which impacts the lives of 
low-income senior citizens. But--guess what--we do have $468 million 
available as a tax break for the Gallo family.

The former CEO of ExxonMobil does very well from the President's tax 
breaks. As some will remember, while the cost of gas at the pumps was 
soaring, while the profits of ExxonMobil were soaring, the company 
decided, in its wisdom and generosity, to provide a $400 million 
retirement package for their departing CEO, Mr. Lee Raymond. Now the 
President wants to reward Mr. Raymond by providing his estate with an 
estimated $164 million tax break. On the other hand, there is a program 
called the Commodities Supplemental Food Program which provides a 
package of high-quality, nutritious food to some 480,000 seniors, 
mothers, and children. The President wants to eliminate this program. 
He is saying to the 4,000 seniors in Vermont who benefit from this 
program, the almost half a million seniors, mothers, and kids who 
benefit from this package of food once a month: We in America don't 
have enough money to provide for you who are hungry, for you who are 
old. We can't do it. But if you are the former CEO of ExxonMobil, if 
you have a $400 million bonus at the end of your career, guess what. 
Your family will get a $164 million tax break.

As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, it appears to me that the 
choice we as a Congress are facing and that the American people are 
facing is pretty clear. Do we continue to shower huge tax breaks on 
millionaires and billionaires, people who are already doing 
phenomenally well, while we cut back on the needs of the middle-class 
working families and the most vulnerable people in this country? It all 
comes down to the phrase ''which side are we on.'' Are we on the side 
of those people who make huge campaign contributions to Congress and 
the White House, or are we on the side of tens of millions of working 
families, struggling hard to keep their heads above water?

That is the choice we face. As a member of the Budget Committee, I 
think the answer is pretty obvious. I will not be voting to provide a 
tax break to the heirs of the Wal-Mart fortune. Rather, I will be 
fighting to substantially increase financial aid for low- and middle-
class families so that every American, regardless of income, can 
receive a college education. I will not support another tax cut for the 
former CEO of ExxonMobil and his family. Instead, I will be voting to 
give support to working families all over this country who are 
desperately seeking quality and affordable childcare.

If, as a nation, we are serious about addressing the long neglected 
needs of the middle-class and working people and creating a fairer and 
more egalitarian society, we have to invest in education, health care, 
housing, and our infrastructure. We have to deal with the crisis of 
global warming and sustainable energy, as well as many other areas. We 
also have to reduce our national debt. Given that reality, Congress 
must develop the courage to stand up to the big money interests, to the 
wealthiest families. We must roll back the tax breaks given to the 
wealthiest 1 percent, and we must demand that fortunate people rejoin 
American society and understand that like everybody else in this 
country, they are part of America and not a special breed. If we are to 
keep faith with our children, our seniors, our veterans, and with those 
people who have no health insurance, we can do no less. I look forward 
to working with my colleagues to make sure we do just that.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.