---
---

# None
## `a59ac6b51ac5dae151aa8c694cc2b808`
`Ms. SCHAKOWSKY — 6 November 2007`

---


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to the 852 men 
and women of the Armed Forces who have sacrificed their lives in Iraq 
this year. Tragically, this brings the total number of American troops 
killed in Iraq to 3,855.

The sobering news that 2007 has been the deadliest for U.S. soldiers 
in Iraq so far is another reminder of the grave human costs of the 
President's misguided war strategy. The President's promises that his 
surge would reduce violence ring hollow, despite the increase in number 
of troops and the hard work of our men and women on the ground who are 
fighting in the midst of a civil war. Every month in 2007 has seen more 
U.S. casualties than the same month in 2006. And with two months left 
before the New Year, U.S. casualties may far exceed previous years.

This grim milestone shared the headlines with another important 
headline this morning: According to an ABC News poll, fifty-nine 
percent of Americans do not think the United States is making 
significant progress restoring civil order in Iraq. A record six in ten 
want the level of U.S. forces in Iraq reduced.

Congress must listen to the American people, who want the war in Iraq 
brought to an end. I strongly urge all of my colleagues to vote against 
any additional funding for this war until it is tied to a firm date for 
the withdrawal of U.S. troops.

As we continue to debate the best way out of the war in Iraq, I hope 
that we remember the sacrifices Americans have made in blood and 
treasure. We must not let this war, and the tragic loss of life, 
continue.
