---
---

# SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
## `a59e52339d05688bba35c28aea616339`
`Mr. DURBIN — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my sincere 
appreciation for the more than 2.9 million nurses in our country. In 
recognition of National Nurses Week, May 6 through 12, I am pleased to 
introduce a resolution with Senators Mikulski and Snowe to commemorate 
this week and the valuable role of nurses nationwide.

Our resolution honors the contributions that nurses make day--after 
day--on the front lines of patient care. We do not thank nurses as 
often as we should. Nurses are an invaluable resource not only to our 
health care system but also to medical research--in health systems and 
outcomes, in nursing education, and in clinical settings. They serve 
our Nation admirably in our communities and in our military, including 
the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Nurses do so much for our country, yet one of the biggest challenges 
facing our health care system today is a shortage of nurses. According 
to an April 2006 report by the American Hospital Association, we need 
approximately 118,000 registered nurses to fill vacant positions 
nationwide. By 2020, there will be a shortfall of more than 1 million 
nurses.

The problem is not a lack of interest by capable people willing to be 
trained. The issue is a lack of faculty to educate future nurses. Last 
year, nursing colleges across the Nation denied admission to more than 
40,000 qualified


applicants from entry-level and graduate nursing education programs, 
including almost 2,000 in my State of Illinois alone. Over 71 percent 
of the schools surveyed cited the lack of faculty as the primary reason 
that qualified students were turned away. Nursing schools need the 
resources to teach and train a new generation of nurses and nurse 
educators.

This is why I introduced the Nurse Education, Expansion, and 
Development, or NEED, Act. This act would provide schools of nursing 
with grants to hire and retain new faculty, purchase educational 
equipment, enhance clinical laboratories, and repair and expand 
infrastructure--some of the very problems that keep nursing schools 
from enrolling additional students today.

The Illinois Nurses Association's theme for National Nurses Week this 
year is Working Together to Make a Difference, and when it comes to the 
nursing shortage, we all should adopt this theme. Strengthening nursing 
schools, increasing the number of graduates, and driving up the quality 
of care with an adequate supply of nurses depends on all of us working 
together.

Nurses care for us and our loved ones when we are at our most 
vulnerable. The difference they make in our lives, their dedication, 
and their enormous contributions are an important part of our country's 
strength.

This week--and always--we honor their efforts and thank them for all 
their work in keeping our Nation healthy and strong.
