---
---

# None
## `a5d3d26f90f953560d4ca7d71e529bbc`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to address the House. 
And I hope the Members of the House had a great 4th of July break as we 
celebrate another birthday of this great country. And the great thing 
about it is you're allowed to say what you want to say


and feel what you want to feel and express yourself in any way that you 
would like to.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to 
the floor to share with not only the Members of Congress, but also with 
the American people, the importance of good policymaking, and also 
making sure that we're factual in what we say and what we do here.

It was quite interesting. I was sitting here reading my notes from 
the information that we pulled together to come to the floor. We're 
going to talk about Iraq tonight, but I'm going to talk a little bit 
about SCHIP because we spent a lot of time and many hours on this floor 
fixing what the Republican Congress left for dead, really. We had to 
come in, the Democratic majority, with the leadership of Speaker
Nancy 
Pelosi, and save the SCHIP program in many States.

A number of Republican Governors wrote that were in a crisis mode of 
their program being shut down in the State of Florida, health care for 
children. In Washington, many people talk about SCHIP. I'm so glad to 
have the chairman here of the subcommittee that deals with this 
particular issue. And it goes to show you, here on the Democratic side 
we have great responsibility when it comes down to fixing and cleaning 
up the mess that was left from the 109th Congress and the Republican-
controlled Congress and special interests got what they wanted.

I think it's also important to note that a supermajority of 
Republicans voted against the continuing resolution to be able to save 
the SCHIP program in many States to provide health care for children. 
And now we're going through the policy move that we have to take to be 
able to make sure that SCHIP is here for every child and to make sure 
that they have the kind of health care that they deserve.

So I'm so glad Mr. Pallone from the Garden State is here because he 
is the chairman that's dealing with this very issue. I'm a member of 
the Ways and Means Committee that is also going to be having a 
discussion on this issue. And I can tell you, as we start to move forth 
and uncovering and unearthing some of the injustices that have taken 
place in the past, and we have Governors on our side, we have children 
advocates on our side, we have those that believe in true health care 
on our side in saying that this is not a last-day-at-school kind of 
syndrome that we see the President and others going through. And I 
think something is about to happen that is really great and is going to 
secure and make sure the children have the kind of health care they 
deserve.

Mr. Pallone, I would be more than happy to yield to you at this time 
because I know without notes that you can talk about this because you 
and your staff have been working on this issue and members of your 
committee have been working on this issue.