# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `a5d428f740d3f015d4cf45cadb44c693`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 26 July 2007`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, Arkansas lost another great young 
patriot last week when Sergeant John R. Massey of Judsonia, AR, died 
from combat wounds after an improvised explosive device detonated near 
his vehicle in Baghdad. Sergeant Massey was a member of the Arkansas 
National Guard's C Battery, 2nd Battalion, 142nd Fires Brigade based in 
Ozark, AR.

Sergeant Massey was remembered by friends and family as a good father 
who enjoyed playing with his kids, spending time with his family, and 
riding his Harley-Davidson motorcycle. Major General William D. Wofford 
also shared stories about Sergeant Massey's dedication to serve. 
According to the Arkansas Democrat Gazette, Wofford had been told by 
Sergeant Massey's father that he had always wanted to be in the 
military and that ''this is the way John would have wanted to go out--
as a soldier.'' A fellow soldier noted, ''All you needed to tell him 
was when and where, and it would be done.'' In fact, Wofford recalled 
once asking Massey if he would like to give up his spot manning a .50 
caliber machine gun in the turrets of his armored patrol vehicle. 
According to Wofford, Sergeant Massey said, ''You can order me out of 
the turret . . . That's the only way I'm leaving.'' When it was all 
said and done, Major General Wofford said that ''Sergeant. Massey 
stayed in the turret until the very end.''

Sergeant Massey was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star and Purple 
Heart, as well as the Arkansas Distinguished Service Medal. He is 
survived by his wife Amanda ''Mandy'' Massey; two daugthers, Monica and 
Emily; son Joseph; mother Deborah Massey; and father Ray Massey; as 
well as other relatives and friends.













 specialist robert d. varga


Mr. President, I also rise to recognize SPC Robert D. Varga of Monroe 
City, MO, who died on July 15, 2007, from noncombat related injuries in 
Baghdad. Rob and his wife, Ellie Madder Stone, called Little Rock, AR, 
home and were married last year on September 5, 2006.

According to Specialist Varga's mother, Cecilia Varga, he was in the 
Army to serve his country and further his education. He came from a 
military family: his father served in Vietnam, grandfather served in 
World War II, and two brothers-in-law served in Iraq. Specialist Varga 
joined the Army in 2003 and was originally deployed as a cook with the 
Headquarters and Headquarters Detachment, 759th Military Police 
Battalion. After his first deployment, he switched duties and trained 
with the military police. He was then assigned to the 984th Military 
Police Company in October 2005.

He received many military honors, including the Combat Action Badge, 
Army Commendation Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, 
Global War on Terror Service Medal, Army Service Medal, Army Service 
Ribbon, and National Defense Service Medal.

Family members remembered him for his outgoing personality and his 
love of cooking and drawing. He is survived by his wife Ellie; his 
father and mother, Frank and Cecilia Varga; sisters Pamela Poelker, 
Carey Noland, and Amanda Reimann; paternal grandmother, Marge Varga; 
maternal grandparents, Glen and Charlotte Little, as well as numerous 
nephews and nieces.
