# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a5d8c8cd81156688f944e9e3a47f26de`
`Ms. KLOBUCHAR — 18 December 2009`

---


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to voice my 
support for the Department of Defense appropriations bill we are 
currently considering and my disappointment that some of my colleagues 
have chosen to hold up this important legislation for reasons 
completely unrelated to anything to do with this bill.

We have been debating health care in this Senate for months, and in 
the coming days we will continue to debate health care. There are many 
honest disagreements about the best ways to reform our Nation's health 
care system. They deserve discussion.

I will say, hearing my colleague from Maine speak, that I am 
concerned about Medicare as well. I am concerned because Medicare is 
going in the red in 2017 if we don't do anything about it. I


look at my mom, who is 82 years old, who wants to make sure she stays 
on Medicare. I look at friends who are in their fifties and who want to 
make sure they get Medicare when they are 65. We need to make sure we 
put in place those cost reforms that are going to give us the high-
quality kind of care we have in Minnesota.

But what I want to talk about today is the Defense appropriations 
bill. Whatever disagreements we may have on health care, they have 
absolutely nothing to do with the Defense spending bill. Funding for 
our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world, as well as for 
defense health and other critical programs should not be dragged into 
this debate. We should be able to separate the two issues and pass this 
Defense bill swiftly and overwhelmingly.

Senator Inouye and several of my other colleagues have already 
discussed the importance of this bill's funding provisions to our 
ongoing operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and to our Nation's overall 
defense. I would like to spend a few minutes on the importance of this 
bill to my home State of Minnesota and where the Acting President pro 
tempore also resides.

There are currently over 1,300 members of the Minnesota National 
Guard deployed in Iraq. These deploying members are with the 34th 
Infantry Division, the famous Red Bulls--the longest serving unit in 
Iraq. They assumed command of all U.S. forces in Iraq's southern 
quadrant in May of this year, taking over from the New York-based 10th 
Mountain Division. This means these Minnesota National Guard soldiers 
have command responsibilities for 9 of Iraq's 18 provinces. For the 
last 7 months, they have overseen the continuing transfer of security 
responsibility to Iraqi forces, which will ultimately enable the 
responsible withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq. In order for these 
Minnesota National Guard soldiers to successfully complete their 
mission and return home to their families early next year, as 
scheduled, we need to provide them the funding included in this bill.

I know all of my colleagues share my belief that we have a 
responsibility to the brave men and women we send overseas to provide 
them with the resources they need to carry out their mission. And there 
is simply no reason for delay.

In addition to providing our troops with what they need when they are 
overseas, we also have the responsibility to take care of them when 
they return home.

As the Chair knows, in Minnesota, we are proud to have created the 
Beyond the Yellow Ribbon reintegration program. This groundbreaking 
initiative, pioneered by the Minnesota National Guard, helps soldiers 
make the transition from their life as a soldier to civilian life 
through counseling and other services.

Due to its overwhelming success in Minnesota, this program now serves 
as a model for the national Yellow Ribbon program that I have worked 
with my colleagues to authorize and fund in recent Defense bills. The 
bill on the floor right now includes funding that will continue the 
Minnesota Yellow Ribbon program, as well as funding for similar 
reintegration programs in States across the Nation.

These are soldiers who don't have a base to come home to. They come 
home to small towns all over the country. The idea here is to bring 
them in to meet with their commanders again, to see if they have a job, 
to see if they have the right health care, to see if they have their 
education benefits set. That is the idea with Beyond the Yellow Ribbon.

When the 1,300 Minnesota National Guard soldiers return home early 
next year, they and their families need the funding in place in this 
bill in order to resume civilian life. Any delay makes it harder for 
commanders to have the necessary resources in place.

When our brave soldiers signed up to fight for us, there wasn't a 
waiting line. When they come home to the United States of America, 
there shouldn't be a waiting line. When they need health care, when 
they need their education or they need a job, there shouldn't be a 
waiting line. When they signed up to fight, there wasn't a delay, and 
there shouldn't be a delay in Washington, DC, when it comes to funding 
for our troops.

I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to support this 
bill and get this voted on as soon as possible--in fact, immediately.

I yield the floor.