# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a5e0a55eea01757ae090b5f16e5b7713`
`Mr. HINCHEY â€” 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. HINCHEY. Madam Chairman, this has been a very interesting debate, 
and one of the aspects of it with which I find myself in agreement is 
the assertion by my friend on the other side of the aisle that there is 
a display of differences of opinion and attitudes with regard to the 
way in which we handle our fiscal responsibilities here, and there is 
no question about that.

If you look at the last 6 years, while the Republican Party has 
controlled every aspect of this government, they managed to succeed to 
almost double the national debt. They now have us in a situation where 
we owe almost $9 trillion, $8.9 trillion.

They continue to spend, as a result of their initiatives, now, about 
$11 billion a month on Iraq, the illegal invasion of Iraq which they 
perpetrated and are interested in carrying out.

What we're trying to do here in this particular bill, and in the 
context of our budget responsibilities, is to focus attention on the 
needs of the American people, what we as a Congress ought to be doing 
in the context of our responsibilities, serving the American people, 
doing what's right for them, improving the possibility, the prospects 
of education, making it easier for our children to get the best 
possible education that they can get, making it easier for people to 
get the health care that they need, making it easier for people to deal 
with housing situations and circumstances so that people have proper 
housing.

In other words, our objectives and our priorities are to improve the 
quality of life of the American people, while your obvious priorities 
and objectives are to decrease the quality of life of the American 
people, which is consistent with your objective in the context of this 
particular amendment.

You want to reduce the amount of money that is available for 
education, reduce the amount of money that's available for health care, 
reduce the amount of money that's available for housing and other 
things that are essential to the American public, while you keep 
wasting more and more money in Iraq.













announcement by the chairman
