---
---

# DWELL TIME
## `a5e3de50342cdd9919e76b8df6e65130`
`Mr. DURBIN — 19 September 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, my friend and colleague from Texas, 
Senator Cornyn, has offered this amendment before. I so stated on the 
floor before, and I will state again, I respect GEN David Petraeus. I 
voted to confirm him as the commanding general of our forces in Iraq. 
He has served our country with distinction. It has been my good fortune 
to spend time with him in Iraq on two different occasions. Both times I 
have felt he was forthcoming and answered questions and demonstrated 
time and again that he was willing to wear our country's uniform and 
risk his life. I think the language chosen in this ad by this 
organization was wrong and unfortunate.


Having said that, I am troubled by the conclusion of my colleague 
from Texas that the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth could attack Senator 
John Kerry for his valor and courage fighting for America in Vietnam 
and that for some reason we shouldn't repudiate that attack; that it is 
OK because it happened, as my colleague said, during a political 
campaign. If this is about the honor and integrity of our Armed Forces, 
past and present, whether it takes place during a political campaign or 
at half time at a football game should make no difference. If the 
Senator from Texas believes we should stand on a regular basis and 
condemn those who would attack the honor and integrity of warriors who 
have served this country with valor in past wars and present wars, then 
he should be consistent. It is totally inconsistent for him to pick one 
organization and to ignore the obvious: There are others who have done 
the same thing.

Swift Boat Veterans for Truth is a classic example of an organization 
that distorted the truth about Senator John Kerry and others who served 
our country during the Vietnam war. The fact that they did it during a 
Presidential campaign should have absolutely nothing to do with it, if 
this is a matter of principle. However, if it is not a matter of 
principle and something else, then you would pick and choose those 
organizations you want to condemn or repudiate. Unfortunately, the 
Senator from Texas has picked one organization. He doesn't want to talk 
about the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. He certainly doesn't want to 
repudiate them. I think they should be repudiated. What they did cast a 
shadow on the


combat decorations given to others during the course of that war.

What Senator John Kerry did was to volunteer to serve our country, 
put his life on the line, face combat, stand up and fight for his 
fellow sailors on that swift boat, and then come back to the criticism, 
the chief criticism of a group known as the Swift Boat Veterans for 
Truth.

Now, if the Senator from Texas is going to be filled with rage over 
those who would cast any disparaging remarks about our military, he 
should be consistent. He should amend his amendment--and I will seek to 
do it for him, incidentally--to add the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth 
as a group that should be repudiated. If we are going to get into this 
business of following the headlines, responding to advertisements and 
repudiating organizations, let's at least be consistent.