---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `a5e6ad0eb2dec0fa6ec5c8097d75b4ae`
`Mr. ALEXANDER â€” 21 March 2007`

---


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I congratulate the Senator from New 
Mexico. He has been working at this a long time. He helped originate 
the report by the National Academy of Sciences to which he referred, 
''Rising Above the Gathering Storm.'' He has also performed a service 
to the Senate and the country by doing some of the hard, less 
glamourous work, because he has worked his way through the budget 
process and, in his words, we are making sure with this amendment that 
we have room in the budget to appropriate funds to support what I 
believe is the single most important legislation before the Congress 
this year; that is the America COMPETES Act which has been introduced 
by the Democratic leader, Senator Reid, and by the Republican leader, 
Senator McConnell.

At one stage in its development over the last 2 years it had 70 
Senators, an equal number of both parties, supporting it and has been 
vetted and worked on by at least a half dozen of our committees. I 
thank Senator Bingaman for his long-time leadership on this effort, 
especially for making sure there is room in the budget for it.

On this side of the aisle, we talk a lot about progrowth policies and 
progrowth investments. We usually mean tax cuts when we talk about 
that. I learned a long time ago that while low taxes and balanced 
budgets are one important part of a progrowth strategy, they are not 
the only important part.

When I was Governor of my State, the Senator from New Hampshire was 
Governor of his State. That is a low-tax State. It was nearly as low a 
tax State as Tennessee when we were both Governors. That was important. 
But we also found out in Tennessee that if we wanted an auto industry, 
we had to have good four-lane highways. If we wanted to grow new jobs, 
we wanted to have a good banking. That was part of a progrowth 
strategy.


But more than anything else, the most important part of a progrowth 
strategy in my State was schools, colleges, and universities. We 
learned that better schools, colleges, and universities meant better 
jobs.

So this legislation we are talking about is about America's 
brainpower advantage. It is the reason why we produce a third of all 
the money for


about 5 percent of all the people in the world. It is because of the 
big ideas that have come out of our country. From the automobile, to 
the electric light bulb, to Google--they have been created here. The 
jobs are here and the standard of living is higher here.

But the rest of the world has figured that out. They have the same 
brains we do, and suddenly China is recruiting the most distinguished 
Chinese professors from great American universities to come back to 
China to build up China. You heard what Senator Bingaman said about 
what is happening in India.

We are talking about a little money for progrowth investments here. 
We would make room for $1 billion the President requested--that the 
President requested--to restore funding for basic scientific research 
in math and science education so we can keep our brainpower advantage. 
This is the real way to keep our good jobs from going to China and 
India and other countries in the world.

It is important to keep that $1 billion over the next year in 
perspective. That is half what we spend in the war in Iraq in a week. 
We spent $237 billion on debt last year, $378 billion on Medicare, $545 
billion on Social Security, at least $70 billion on hurricanes. We are 
going to be asked to pass a $100 billion supplemental request for the 
war in Iraq.

We will not have enough money to pay all these important bills unless 
we keep enough money in the budget for the investments that keep our 
brainpower advantage so we can keep our jobs. That is where we get all 
that money.

The Bingaman-Alexander amendment would help make room for the $1 
billion requested by the President to fund basic research in math and 
science education.

Specifically, one, it would restore $398 million for the National 
Science Foundation, bringing the total to $6.429 billion, as requested 
by the President.

Two, it restores $610 million for the Department of Energy's Office 
of Science, bringing the total to $4.481 billion, which meets the 
President's request, and then adds $70 million extra for three programs 
that are part of the Reid-McConnell America COMPETES Act: Discovery 
institutes, PACE Graduate Fellows, and Distinguished Scientists.

It adds $11 million for the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, as authorized for next year by the Reid-McConnell 
legislation.

The majority leader and the minority leader, in the midst of some 
contentious discussions in the Senate--which we have regularly--are 
rising above that and putting this piece of legislation into play. I 
know of no other piece of legislation that has that kind of bipartisan 
support that is that important to the future of our country. It is 
based on work Senator Bingaman, Senator Domenici, Senator Mikulski, 
Senator Ensign, Senator Lieberman, Senator Hutchison, and many others 
have been a part of. Senator Frist and Senator Reid put the bill in, in 
the first place, toward the end of last year.

It began because Senator Bingaman and I and others walked down the 
street to the National Academy of Sciences and said: Please tell us 
exactly what we ought to do, in priority order, to keep our brainpower 
advantage. Give us 10 specific things to do. They gave us 20, in 
priority order. That was put together with other important work done by 
the Council on Competitiveness. Then here we are today with the 
''Rising Above the Gathering Storm'' report and with the Council on 
Competitiveness' report.

The bill, the America COMPETES Act, to which this amendment relates, 
authorizes $16 billion in new spending over 4 years. But this is a 
significant savings over the original legislation, the one that was 
sponsored by 70 Senators and reported by the committees. We took out $3 
billion from the bills passed by Energy and Commerce. We avoided a 
number of duplicative undergraduate scholarship programs. We wanted 
progrowth investment, but we wanted to do it wisely and prudently.

I wish to conclude my remarks with some of the provisions of the 
America COMPETES Act. I know the Senator from South Carolina is waiting 
to speak, and others will be speaking, too, so I will conclude my 
remarks quickly. But it includes such matters as doubling funding for 
the National Science Foundation. It will set the Department of Energy's 
Office of Science on track to double in funding over 10 years. It will 
strengthen the skills of thousands of math and science teachers, and 
others.

As I said, provisions of the America COMPETES Act include double 
funding for the National Science Foundation, or NSF, from $5.6 billion 
in fiscal year 2006 to $11.2 billion in fiscal year 2011; setting the 
Department of Energy's Office of Science on track to double in funding 
over 10 years, increasing from $3.6 billion in fiscal year 2006 to over 
$5.2 billion in fiscal year 2011.

Another provision is to strengthen the skills of thousands of math 
and science teachers by establishing training and education programs at 
summer institutes hosted at the National Laboratories and by increasing 
support for the Teacher Institutes for the 21st Century program at NSF.

Another provision is to expand the Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship 
Program at NSF to recruit and train individuals to become math and 
science teachers in high-need schools.

Another provision is to assist States in establishing or expanding 
statewide specialty schools in math and science that students from 
across the State would be eligible to attend--as they do now in North 
Carolina and other States.

Another provision is to expand Advanced Placement, AP, and 
International Baccalaureate, IB, programs by increasing the number of 
teachers prepared to teach these math, science, and foreign language 
courses in high schools. This would allow thousands of new students to 
take these outstanding college preparatory classes.

Another provision is to provide grants to universities to establish 
programs modeled on the successful UTeach program at the University of 
Texas--where students getting a bachelor's degree in math or science 
can concurrently earn teaching credentials and become the new 
generation of math and science teachers.

Another provision is to create partnerships between National 
Laboratories and local high-need high schools to establish centers of 
excellence in math and science education.

The challenge America faces today is really about brainpower and 
jobs.

We Americans--who constitute just 5 percent of the world's 
population--produced about 30 percent of the world's wealth last year. 
Yet we worry that America may be losing its brainpower advantage. We 
see what is happening in China and India and other countries, too, such 
as Finland, Singapore, and Ireland. We face a new ''flat'' world where 
more and more countries can compete with us, and we must rise to the 
challenge. That is why we must fund this progrowth investment in our 
economy and create the best new jobs here instead of shipping them 
overseas. That is why I hope all my colleagues will join in supporting 
this amendment.

One more point. We asked our National Academies what to do to keep 
our brainpower advantage. We worked 2 years through various committees 
and many changes to bring our legislation to this point. We still have 
some way to go, although a parallel path is being pursued in a 
bipartisan way in the House.

I believe we will get there, and get there soon, with this kind of 
leadership. But we should realize President Hu of China walked over to 
the National Academy of Sciences in China last July, and they do things 
in a little different way. He announced to his joint academy meeting in 
the Great Hall of the People exactly what China's innovation effort 
would be over the next 10 years, how they are going to increase their 
percentage investment in the gross domestic product, how they are going 
to improve their universities and elementary and secondary schools, and 
exactly what they would do to recruit distinguished Chinese leaders to 
come back, because they know their brainpower advantage, to the extent 
they can develop and improve on it, is the most important aspect of 
creating good jobs and a higher standard of living here.

So this legislation is a step in that direction for us. We have much 
more to do. We have the research and development tax credit to make 
permanent. We have provisions in the immigration legislation which have 
passed once,


which I hope pass again, to in-source brainpower, to give a preference 
to people with high skills in science, technology, engineering, and 
math. Let them stay here, create jobs here instead of in other 
countries. We are going to continue to work on that.

But Senator Bingaman has, by his leadership and persistence, come up 
with an amendment, which I join him in cosponsoring, which will make 
room for funding. We need to properly support the America COMPETES Act 
that Senator Reid and Senator McConnell have cosponsored, along with 40 
of us right now. Hopefully, we will be keeping that brainpower 
advantage and, therefore, keeping our good jobs.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.