---
---

# None
## `a60155d3d47483956c7aaf91fb2ad572`
`Mr. HATCH — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, yesterday one of our colleagues came before 
this body and stated for all who cared to listen that he was weary, 
weary of this war.

I, too, am weary, but weariness does not lead me to embrace the 
policy of surrender or succumb to the nihilistic business that is 
defeatism.

History is replete with examples of leaders who fell victim to the 
temptation of defeatism. Shall the Senate similarly repeat this folly?

No, sir.

In this country, commitment and dedication to noble pursuits have 
defined our great Nation. We must not give way to weariness now.

The Senate is where great ideas and thoughts are to be put forth and 
considered, ideas and thoughts that are designed to lead to a better 
life for the American people and secure a safer world where the 
inalienable rights of all are respected.

But I, too, am weary, weary of the policies of appeasement that have 
become the guiding principles of some in the majority party. Have they 
learned nothing? Has history not taught us, through the pain and 
suffering of millions, that the philosophy of appeasement only provides 
a slight respite from the forces of evil before they unleash 
incalculable pain and suffering on the innocent?

What happens if we adopt the troop withdrawal legislation before us? 
Do they really think al-Qaida is just going to leave us alone? Make no 
mistake, the majority of the forces that oppose us in Iraq are 
affiliated with al-Qaida.

Do the supporters of this bill think al-Qaida will conclude: ''Well, 
we have won in Iraq, now let's leave the Americans to live in peace?'' 
Does anybody really believe that?

That is the question the American people have to ask themselves. What 
will happen if we pick an arbitrary time to leave Iraq based on a 
policy of appeasement rather than accomplishments of our new 
counterinsurgency strategy?

I have been to Iraq twice. The first time, I admit to being a little 
discouraged. The second time was a year later. During this second 
visit, we actually flew into Al Anbar really before it was completely 
as open as it is today. We walked the streets of Ramadi. We high-fived 
with the kids who were on the street. The difference between my two 
visits was striking. It was a complete change and that change is 
because of our current military leadership.

Again, the question the American people have to ask themselves: What 
will happen if we pick an arbitrary time to leave Iraq based on a 
policy of appeasement rather than the accomplishments of our new 
counterinsurgency strategy?

Simply put, what happens the day after?

Will not al-Qaida use Iraq, with the world's third largest oil 
reserves, as a bank to fund their worldwide activities? Will they not 
use Iraq as a base to launch attacks against all those who disagree 
with their radical policies?

What are the answers offered to these questions by the proponents of 
this legislation? From what I can discern from the Members who have 
taken to the floor to defend it, the answer is simple: nothing. They 
simply do not have a plan for the day after.

What of the nearly 4,000 servicemembers who volunteered to fight for 
their country and who have now paid the ultimate sacrifice? Does their 
memorial in history read: Thank you for your service, but some Members 
of Congress grew weary, and therefore your sacrifice and the sacrifices 
of your family were in vain.

I know what those sacrifices are like. Our family lost my only living 
brother in World War II on the Ploesti oil raid. That was the raid that 
attempted to knock out Hitler's oil reserves and it was one of the most 
important operations of World War II.

My brother's loss was hard on our family. But we were proud of my 
brother. We were proud that he was willing to sacrifice his life for 
us, just as we are proud of our young men and women who are fighting in 
Iraq and Afghanistan today.

What is General Petraeus's conclusion, if we begin a precipitous 
withdrawal? Almost everybody has praised General Petraeus. You just 
have to. My gosh, the man has completely transformed the situation in 
Iraq. He has been right in his approach toward these problems over 
there. He wrote the Army's manual on fighting insurgencies.

As recently as February 15, General Petraeus stated what we all know 
to be true if we were to begin a precipitous withdrawal:




 You would see a resurgence of ethno-sectarian violence. You 


 would see al Qaeda regain its safe havens and sanctuaries. 


 There's no telling what would happen with displaced persons.


In other words, if we leave, the chaos that could result might make 
the wholesale slaughter that occurred after the fall of Indochina look 
minuscule by comparison. I wonder what fanciful legislative fix our 
colleagues will offer then.

So what is the alternative? Do opponents of this bill offer only 
empty rhetoric?

No, we support the comprehensive counterinsurgency strategy devised 
and implemented by General Petraeus. It is a strategy that is producing 
remarkable results, results that point to only one conclusion. In 
little over a year, the coalition has regained the initiative.

For example, General Petraeus stated in his December 30 briefing that 
overall attacks have decreased by 60 percent. Civilian deaths are also 
down by 60 percent. The ethno-sectarian component of those fatalities 
has decreased by 80 percent.

Those findings are supported by other commanders in Iraq, including 
MG Joseph Fil, the commanding officer of the 1st Cavalry Division and 
the officer who until December was responsible for our operations in 
Baghdad. He stated in an interview late last year with the New York 
Times that coalition forces have dramatically reduced, if not 
eliminated, al-Qaida's presence in every neighborhood in Baghdad. The 
general also pointed out that murders in Baghdad are down 80 percent.


In addition, during a recent briefing, LTG Raymond T. Odierno, who 
just returned from Iraq and has been nominated to become the Army's new 
Vice Chief of Staff, stated that terrorist operations in Baghdad have 
decreased by 59 percent. In the past year, suicide attacks in Baghdad 
have been reduced 66 percent, from 12 to 4 a month. The number of 
improvised explosive device attacks in Baghdad has also declined by 45 
percent.

Baghdad is not the only area where we have seen success. During my 
trip to Iraq last year, I was able to witness the dramatic changes that 
have occurred in Al Anbar, where al-Qaida has been thrown out of vast 
areas of that province, including its major cities,


Ramadi and Fallujah, areas that were once deemed refuges for al-Qaida's 
vile perversion of a dignified and peaceful religion.

The success of Baghdad and Al Anbar is also being repeated throughout 
Iraq. In the north, Operation Iron Harvest has been launched.

This operation has already achieved some important successes. For 
example, during the month of December, the coalition and Iraqi security 
forces have killed or captured over 20 al-Qaida emirs in the north. 
This included the capture of Haider al-Afri, who was the main security 
emir in Mosul and was responsible for organizing the flow of foreign 
fighters into the Mosul area. His replacement did not fare much better; 
he was captured on February 18.

The number of attacks in Diyala has also decreased. No doubt that the 
recent killing of the al-Qaida emir of Diyala helped this trend.

In addition, in the past two weeks, the coalition killed Abu Karrar, 
who was a senior al-Qaida intelligence operative and an individual who 
has the infamous distinction of organizing murders to be carried out by 
female suicide bombers.

Which leads me to the inevitable question: What do you think these 
senior al-Qaida leaders would be doing with their time if we left Iraq? 
I wonder if they ever will grow weary as some in this body have?

How are all these successes possible? The answer is our generals over 
there, led by General Petraeus. His strategy is based upon the classic 
counterinsurgency tactic of providing security to the local population, 
thereby enabling the Government to provide services to its people, 
which in turn creates in the population a vested interest in the 
success of Government institutions.

One of the ways this is accomplished is through the use of joint 
security stations. Under this tactic, a portion of a city such as a 
neighborhood is cordoned off, then searched for insurgents. Previously, 
once this was accomplished, our forces would return to large forward-
operating bases, usually on the periphery of the city. The result was 
easy to predict. The insurgents would return once the sweep had 
concluded.

Under General Petraeus's strategy, our forces remain in the 
neighborhoods and build joint security stations. These joint security 
stations then become home to a company-sized unit of American 
servicemembers as well as Iraqi Army and police units. These facilities 
not only help secure the surrounding areas but simultaneously enable 
our forces to train and evaluate Iraqi forces. Much like the local 
police officer in a major urban area, our forces use the joint security 
stations to learn about the locale to which they are assigned and can 
quickly adapt to meet the unique security needs of the individual 
community.

The success of these joint security stations can be seen in their 
creation throughout Iraq, with over 50 of them in Baghdad alone. 
However, under this legislation, our forces will no longer be able to 
conduct operations from joint security stations. In fact, they would be 
banished to bases isolated from the Iraqi people and unable to 
accompany Iraqi forces on missions. Under this bill, the few remaining 
forces would only be able to conduct limited operations against al-
Qaida. The security provided to the Iraqi people, which is the 
foundation of our recent success, would be entirely lost.

So let's review the policy advocated by this bill. No. 1, it 
guarantees defeat. No. 2, it provides al-Qaida with another base of 
operations, and, unlike Afghanistan, Iraq's oil wealth will provide 
substantial financial resources to purchase whatever the terrorists 
choose. In the past, it has been publicly reported that al-Qaida has 
actively sought the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction.

Neville Chamberlain would be proud.

So yes, I, like others, am weary, but I am weary of appeasement. I am 
weary of such defeatist legislation being debated on the floor of the 
Senate. This is a Chamber for great ideas and concepts that will ensure 
the betterment of the American public and lead to the freedom of 
oppressed people all over the world. This legislation falls far short 
of that August standard.

Just think about it, here we have this country, Iraq, with three 
different factions who are working together, who are making headway, 
who have enormous oil wealth that could be used for their people, who 
are tired of al-Qaida, who have been throwing them out of the various 
provinces, who are cooperating with the United States of America, and 
who are starting to cooperate with each other, who sit between two of 
the most roguish nations in the world, Iran and Syria. All of this 
success happening, and we have people who want to pull us out 
prematurely. I don't understand it personally.

I respect the sincerity of the sponsors and of those who will vote 
for this. I think that if we are going to be weary, let's be weary of 
the way to handle things.

