---
---

# None
## `a60b1f5f34da93e44ebc41e761bc99f5`
`Mr. REID — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I am satisfied that we got cloture on the 
motion to proceed to this important legislation, and I appreciate the 
bipartisan vote in this regard. Usually, however, when we get cloture 
on a motion to proceed, it means Senators are prepared to actually 
begin consideration of that legislation. However, I have asked consent 
that we do just that. My minority colleagues have objected.

The only conclusion a reasonable person could have is that they are 
resorting to a new variation of the old theme. Remember, in 1 year--
last year--the Republican minority broke all rules in filibusters. In 1 
year, we had to file cloture 68 different times. So it is obvious this 
is only an effort to stall, as they have done for the entire time we 
have been in the majority.

Now, we are happy to legislate regarding Iraq, but it is obvious to 
me what the game plan is. They want us to slow the Senate down from 
getting things done. It is interesting to note that when the 30 hours 
is up, we will automatically go to cloture on the piece of legislation 
that calls for a reporting requirement on the global war on terror. 
From the statements made by the distinguished Republican leader, they 
don't like that. So it would seem to me it is very clear that they are 
going to do everything they can to stop us from getting to the housing 
legislation, which the American people badly need. I think it is 
important that we do the housing legislation and that we do consumer 
product safety. Of course, we are going to do the budget resolution. It 
is obvious the Republican minority is in their usual stalling tactic.

Now, we have a few people who can speak, too, during these 30 hours, 
but what we should be doing is legislating on this most important 
legislation. Remember, the Iraq war is within a matter of days going to 
be starting the sixth year--the sixth year of this war. It has been 
reported that in less than a year, this war will cost the American 
taxpayer $1 trillion. Remember, Lindsey was fired because he said it 
would cost $100 billion. He was fired. Well, he was a little off.

We know that in a matter of a few days we are going to have a 
milestone, a tragic milestone. There will be 4,000 dead Americans. Our 
troops have fought valiantly. We all acknowledge that. But as I 
indicated in my statement earlier today, they want to come home. 
Wherever you go, that is what they tell you. The parents tell you that. 
The troops tell you that. A Capitol policeman came home. He has been 
over there for almost a year. I talked to him yesterday: When are you 
going back?

He said: In 2 weeks.

How has it been, Jim?

He said: It has been pretty tough.

He is a different person than he was, having been through what he has 
been through.

So if the Republicans want to talk about Iraq, we are happy to talk 
about Iraq and about how this money we have borrowed and continue to 
borrow--$1 trillion--is preventing us--I met with the Governors 
yesterday, the Democratic Governors. They know what they are not doing 
in their States because they have no money, whether it is 
infrastructure, the deterioration of roads, bridges, and dams or 
whether it is health care. They can't take care of some of the basic 
needs of the people from their States, and they know it is because of 
this war.

The President doesn't like to borrow money, except for this war. 
There is a carte blanche: Borrow as much as you need. This war is 
costing us now about a half a billion dollars a day--a day. So isn't it 
good that the American people are hearing us talk about this?

As I indicated in an earlier statement I made a few minutes ago, 
let's not start boasting about the surge. During the surge, we have 
lost about 1,000 American troops--1,000 American troops. We are glad 
the violence is down, but that is all a matter of degree. The Shia 
religious holiday they are trying to finish, in 2 days, more than 60 
killed, more than 100 wounded, and this is Sunni on Shia, and you can 
bet whatever you have to bet, the Shias will be back to inflict equal 
damage against the Sunnis, and the Sunnis, to whom we have paid huge 
amounts of money, have not even declared loyalty to the Baghdad 
Government.

So we are happy to talk about Iraq. It is obvious the Republicans are 
doing everything they can to stop us from going forward on legislation, 
something dealing with the economy, of course. What would have been the 
right thing to do, if they were sincere about moving forward, a motion 
to proceed. I want everyone who is within the sound of my voice to 
understand that motions to proceed are routine. No one made us go 
forward on motions to proceed, until this Republican minority showed 
up, and then on virtually everything, they are doing the slow walk on 
everything--everything. If they


were legitimate and genuine about what they want to do, we would be on 
this piece of legislation that has been introduced and we would be 
talking about the merits of it. But, no, that can't start.

Understand that at the end of 30 hours, automatically we have a vote 
on the next cloture that has been filed because everything we do around 
here, we have to file cloture on a motion to proceed because of the big 
stalls taking place. So we are ready to talk as long as people want to 
talk on this issue. We have Democratic Senators who want to talk about 
this because they know what this war has done to what is taking place 
in our States, as indicated by the Governors whom I met with yesterday.