# RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF NATIVE AMERICAN VETERANS
## `a612a69c7b39f00aa94004b9c11ed57a`
`Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN — 5 November 2007`

---


Ms. HERSETH SANDLIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 
744, which recognizes the contributions of Native American veterans and 
calls upon the president to issue a day in honor of their service.

As an original cosponsor of H.R. 744, I would like to thank 
Representative Wilson for introducing this important resolution to 
honor the service of our nation's Native American Veterans. I also 
would like to recognize Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner 
and Ranking Member Steve Buyer for their strong leadership and 
unwavering dedication to Native American veterans and for working to 
quickly move this resolution to the House floor.

For more than 200 years Native Americans have served in the 
military--at a higher rate than any other ethnic group. Now, in Iraq 
and Afghanistan, a new generation of Native Americans serve their 
country. These young men and women, such as Private First Class Sheldon 
Hawk Eagle, from Eagle Butte, South Dakota and Corporal Brett Lundstrom 
from Pine Ridge, South Dakota, who were both killed while serving in 
Iraq, join a long line of Native Americans that have answered the call 
to duty on behalf of their country. Their service to our nation must 
never be forgotten.

To honor the sacrifice of countless Native American veterans, like 
Private First Class Hawk Eagle and Corporal Lundstrom, I encourage my 
colleagues to support final passage of this resolution.