---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION DEFICITS AND DEBT BACKGROUND
## `a618d23f7dad77888c4abdf678eba9da`
`Mr. ELLSWORTH — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. ELLSWORTH. Madam Speaker, it is an honor for me to join you and 
the members of the Blue Dog Coalition in their mission to bring fiscal 
responsibility back to this House.

As my friend from Oklahoma said, I am a new member. I have been up 
here approximately 5 months now, so it is easy for me to remember what 
the people of the Eighth District of Indiana said, their marching 
orders when they sent me here and elected me to the people's House. 
They told me to stay honest. They told me, don't let Washington change 
you. They said, in fact, you need to go and change the way Washington 
works. And they said ''spend my money wisely.''

They have probably seen Mr. Ross on TV and saw the poster that showed 
that every person in this country, their portion of the national debt 
was $29,000, and it recently had to be added to. Over $29,000. Every 
man, woman, child, living person in this country, owes $29,000 of that 
debt. That is too much. Why are we strapping our children and 
grandchildren with that kind of debt?

The people in Indiana are pretty smart. Nobody likes taxes, but they 
realize that taxes are a necessary, I might go as far and say, evil, if 
they want the services that the government provides. So they don't mind 
paying those taxes if they know that their Congress people are spending 
those taxes wisely.

So when they hear about ''bridges to nowhere'' and fish museums and 
teapot museums in North Carolina, or maybe more serious than that, 
things like $38 million worth of weapons in Iraq and Afghanistan that 
have gone on the missing-in-action list, weapons that probably have 
fallen into our enemy's hands, or $9 billion in $100 bills on pallets 
that is gone. It is missing, and our great country, with all of our 
accounting, cannot account for $9 billion in cash that has gone over 
there on skids.

That is not what the people of Indiana expect of this Congress. It is 
not what they expect of me, and I don't think they will tolerate it.

That is why when I came to Congress, when I heard about the Blue Dog 
Coalition, the Blue Dog Caucus, that it was a pretty easy group to 
join. When I checked on them, and I assume they checked on me, we had 
those same values and ideals. We were fiscally conservative. We want to 
spend the people's money wisely. We weren't going to waste it. We 
actually worked to balance the budget, that we wouldn't spend money we 
didn't have.

I have a credit card. Probably most people in the audience here, 
Madam Speaker, you may have a credit card, I am sure. But I don't run 
up those totals to the amounts that our country has run up, into 
foreign countries. My wife and I work hard. We charge things, and then 
we pay off that card. That is what the people expect us to do here.

So it is going to take tough decisions. It is going to take the tough 
calls. But we have got that. A group of 43 have that internal fortitude 
to put those tough decisions on the front. The people understand that. 
They will let us do that, that we will make wise decisions with their 
money.

So I stand here tonight, not only in the Armed Services Committee, 
but in every committee, whether it is Agriculture, Small Business, 
Armed Services, no matter what the committee is, this Congress, the 
people's House, has a responsibility to spend their money wisely. I 
pledge to do that, I know the Blue Dogs pledge to do that, and I think 
the other 434 Members of Congress need to do that, too.

With that, I yield back to the gentleman from Arkansas.