---
---

# FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
## `a626b93f0e6bfd4d61849ec2b155f206`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 8 February 2008`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I would like to take a moment to try 
to clarify an issue that has caused a lot of concern for years now. It 
has now come to a conclusion, and I am glad it has. I am glad to learn 
waterboarding has not been used but three times by our country and has 
not been used in almost 5 years. From the reports and statements made 
by Members of Congress and extreme groups around the world, one would 
think we have had a systematic effort to waterboard people and 
otherwise torture and abuse them. Only one prisoner has died since they 
have been in U.S. custody since the beginning of the war on terror. We 
treat them very well. I have been to Guantanamo Bay on more than one 
occasion. I have seen how interviews are conducted. So have large 
numbers of our body.

As I indicated in earlier remarks, we wish the world were safer than 
it is. Unfortunately, it is not as safe as we would like. Those of us 
sitting comfortably at home forget the real threats out there. We tend 
to forget there are determined groups who want


to attack the United States as they did on 9/11 and kill our people. 
This is an unpleasant task. When confronted on the battlefield, in 
Iraq, in Afghanistan, we shoot them and we kill them and we drop bombs 
on them and we kill them because these are life-and-death matters that 
Congress has authorized. I wish that were not necessary. I know it is a 
failure of us in some form or fashion. But as a practical person, we 
know no other alternative than to defend ourselves. We are required to 
do that.

I was reading an article from the Mr. R. Emmett Tyrrell, Jr., in the 
Washington Times today. He talks about what Admiral McConnell, the 
Director of National Intelligence, said a few days ago in 
hearings. Director McConnell said:




 The number of terrorist attacks and deaths were greater 


 than in the past six years combined.


He was talking about the battle for Pakistan and its survival.

The article states:




 Another [statement] from Mr. McConnell . . . is that al 


 Qaeda plans more attacks against the United States and was 


 working on a plan for attacking the White House as recently 


 as 2006. Homegrown al Qaeda cells here have been primitive, 


 but Mr. McConnell registered his concern that new, more 


 sophisticated cells might threaten us domestically in the 


 years ahead.


And that is a fair summary, I think, of Admiral McConnell's comments.

Since we have now openly talked about the waterboarding question, and 
Members of Congress and the public have now gotten the information, I 
think we need to make sure we know exactly how those three occurrences 
developed.

The first thing we know is it worked. I hate to say, it worked. No. 
2, the Agency--only the CIA used water-
boarding; never the U.S. military, never the Department of Defense; not 
in Iraq, not in Afghanistan--it was never utilized by our military, but 
the Central Intelligence Agency on three occasions since September 11.

As the article says, they utilized it only on those:




 [T]error leaders who have posed the utmost threat to our 


 [national] security, Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, [who was the] 


 mastermind of [the] attack on our warship the USS Cole in a 


 neutral port.


We had hearings in the Armed Services Committee, of which I am a 
member, about that dastardly attack. And I remember about a year after 
the Cole was attacked--where we had 18 American sailors killed by this 
vicious attack; and it could have been a lot more--the Navy 
commissioned a ship down at Norfolk, VA; and as we walked out of the 
ceremony, a young sailor hollered out--and it still makes my hair stand 
up--''Remember the Cole.''

Well, we got the perpetrator, and justice was done.




 Abu Zubaydah, [who was] the brains behind the thwarted 


 millennium attacks--


That we were able to block--



 and Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who directed September 11. . . .


The attacks on September 11. KSM, that is his name now for the 
professionals, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.

So I believe the Attorney General of the United States, after 
researching this matter carefully, and after our intelligence agencies 
gave it thoughtful review, concluded we do not need to have 
waterboarding now, that these three instances were justified.

Attorney General Mukasey, a former Federal judge--approved 
overwhelmingly by the Senate--was asked to make an opinion on 
waterboarding. He said he believed those actions were justified under 
those circumstances, and he would not say we would never ever do it 
again in the future. He said circumstances would determine how you 
handle those kinds of situations.

Let me note, again, for a lot of people, these are not honest and 
legitimate soldiers of a nation state. The people who are subjected to 
this procedure are persons who are unlawful combatants. They are 
persons who do not fight according to the rules of war, and they do not 
wear uniforms. They deliberately attack civilian personnel. They do it 
through subterfuge and violence, and their goals are outside all rules 
of warfare. Until some recent cases, they were clearly considered not 
to be provided any protections under the Geneva Conventions.

So I will say, Madam President, we hate to talk about these things. 
We wish we did not face the kind of threats from the diabolical 
terrorists that we do. We wish we did not have to go to war and shoot 
and kill many of them. But we, as a nation--the Congress; both 
parties--have authorized that activity. We fund that activity. Our 
soldiers are out there putting their lives on the line at this very 
moment to execute that policy, placing themselves in harm's way.

I am glad the Attorney General has reviewed it carefully. I am glad 
he is able to say waterboarding was utilized only three times, that it 
had not been used in 5 years. But I am glad he also said he would not 
say it would never be done again. This would be unwise advice to the 
enemy we face.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.