---
---

# None
## `a62ba4f5ad8dd83112f9163c9230b606`
`Mr. HINCHEY — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. HINCHEY. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker.

I think all of us know by now that the military occupation in Iraq, 
which is referred to as a war but is really a military occupation, is 
an increasing disaster. We all know that now more than 4,000 military 
personnel have lost their lives, tens of thousands have been injured. 
We ought to be taking decisive action to put an end to that illegal, 
disastrous military occupation.

This bill is presented as a means of attempting to do so. But it is a 
false presentation. It does nothing to that effect. This bill, if it is 
passed and signed into law, would simply require a plan to be developed 
within 60 days after that signing and then another 90 days an 
additional plan, another 90 days an additional plan. So what we are 
likely to see, unless this Congress is able to take more decisive, more 
progressive, more positive action, is four, five, maybe even six plans 
coming out of this administration and no responsible action taken with 
regard to the disastrous circumstances that occur on the basis of this 
illegal military occupation.

This legislation does nothing productive to deal with this very 
difficult, dangerous, and disastrous situation. The circumstances for 
the security of this country have worsened as a result of this illegal 
invasion and the subsequent military occupation, and that worsening 
continues.

One of the other things in this legislation is also, frankly, very 
interesting. Congress finds, it says, the following: that the President 
has the ability to use the Armed Forces as the President determined 
necessary and appropriate in order to defend the national security of 
the United States against the continuing threat posed by the Government 
of Iraq at that time, at the time that that resolution was passed back 
in October of 2002, which a number of us voted against.

What this suggests is that that was the proper thing to do at that 
time. It was not the proper thing to do in October of 2002. It would 
have been much more proper if this Congress realized at that time what 
I believe most of us realize now: that the alleged justification for 
the illicit, illegal invasion of Iraq, the idea that there was a 
connection between Iraq and the attack of September 11, that Iraq had 
so-called weapons of mass destruction, that there was an alleged 
nuclear weapons


development program in Iraq, and that there was some connection between 
Iraq and al Qaeda, all of which was false. Now, many did not realize 
that at that time and subsequently they voted for it. Many of us did 
realize it and voted against it.

We should not have anything asserting in any legislation that comes 
before this House anything that suggests that what was presented at 
that time to justify that resolution authorizing this administration to 
engage in this illegal invasion and the subsequent disastrous 
occupation of that sovereign country was true when it was all 
falsified, intentionally and purposefully falsified.

So I could appreciate what some people may think they are doing here, 
and I certainly have a great deal of respect and affection for the 
Members who are the sponsors of this legislation. But I tell you, you 
look at this and you will say to yourself if this legislation passes, 
what it will authorize is a continuing falsified plan, much of which 
can be classified, coming from this administration, plan after plan, 
and the remaining military forces will be in that country until 
sometime after January of 2009.

This doesn't do what we are supposed to do. We shouldn't be passing 
it.