---
---

# None
## `a62f6c11fd67d1f81004988f67f211ee`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida — 20 March 2007`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think it is important, as we start to look at 
this, I cannot help but reflect on the fact that as of 10 a.m. today, 
and that is today, that we have lost 3,222 men and women in Iraq. I 
mean, that is not a small number when we look at the sacrifices that 
have been made. Also, we are looking at another 13,415 wounded that 
have returned to duty, and 10,722 wounded that cannot return to duty. 
Then we have folks that are whining about having some accountability in 
what we now call 5 years later emergency supplemental funding.

I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, for the Members to understand 
because we want to come to the floor, we do not want a Member going 
back to their district saying they did not understand what was in the 
bill because we know it is on the other side of the aisle.

Mr. Ryan pointed that out we have some folks that are just going to 
vote on principle; I am going to vote against this because it was not 
my idea. I am going to vote against it because I am a Republican. Well, 
guess what? The American people voted last November for leadership, not 
saying that I am going to send a Democrat or Republican. We had 
Republicans that were tenured in this House, served 10-, 15-year terms 
unelected because they were following partisan politics. It is very, 
very important that we look at the bipartisanship in this.

I will yield because I was about to make a point on the readiness 
issue.