---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a631842395b91d8ce80bda1ba633eb79`
`Mr. KENNEDY — 27 September 2007`

---


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, The Interfaith Alliance, a nonpartisan 
advocacy organization representing 75 different religions, said hate 
crimes are an assault upon ''the belief that lies at the core of our 
diverse faith traditions--that every human being is endowed with 
dignity and worth.''

This is what The Interfaith Alliance said:




 Hate crimes are an assault upon the belief that lies at the 


 core of our diverse faith traditions--that every human being 


 is endowed with dignity and worth.


Dignity and worth.

The simple fact is, hate crimes are different and more destructive 
than other crimes. As my friend, Senator Hatch, stated during our 
debate in 2000:




 Crimes of animus are more likely to provoke retaliatory 


 crimes; they inflict deep, lasting and distinct injuries--


 some of which never heal--on victims and their family 


 members; they incite community unrest and, ultimately, they 


 are downright un-American.


The Federal Government has a responsibility to send a clear and 
unambiguous message that hate-motivated violence in any form, from any 
source, will not be tolerated. Hate crime perpetrators use violence to 
dehumanize and diminish their victims. This legislation fights back by 
reinforcing this country's founding ideals of liberty and justice 
for all.


In Iraq and Afghanistan, our soldiers are fighting for freedom and 
liberty. They are on the front lines fighting against hate. We are 
united in our effort to root out the cells of hatred around the world. 
We should not turn a blind eye to acts of hatred and terrorism at home. 
We owe it to our troops to uphold those same principles at home. We 
should not shrink now from our role as a beacon of liberty to the rest 
of the world. When the Senate approves this amendment, we will send a 
message about freedom and equality that will resonate around the world.

If America is to live up to its founding ideals of liberty and 
justice for all, combating hate crimes must be a national priority. Now 
is the time for


Congress to speak with one voice, insisting that all Americans will be 
guaranteed the equal protection of the laws. We must pay more than 
lipservice to this core principle of our democracy, and we must give 
those words practical meaning in our modern society. No American should 
feel they are second-class citizens because Congress refuses to protect 
them against hate crimes.

Far too many times, hate crimes have shocked the conscience of the 
country. Tolerance in America still faces a serious challenge, and we 
must have the courage to act. As the Reverend Sockman said:




 The test of courage comes when we are in the minority. The 


 test of tolerance comes when we are in the majority.


Most of us in this Chamber have lived our lives in the majority, and 
it is time for us to recognize the courage of those who have lived 
their lives in the minority and stand up for tolerance. When bigotry 
exists in America, each of us is diminished. Injustice inflicted on any 
among us is injustice against us all.

As Leviticus commands us:




 You may not stand idly by when your neighbor's blood is 


 being shed.


For too long, the Federal Government has been forced to fight this 
injustice with one hand tied behind its back. We know some crimes are 
motivated by a desire to harm whole communities. It is time those 
crimes were punished in a manner that is equal to their 
destructiveness.

The President has threatened to veto this legislation if it comes to 
his desk, but I urge my fellow Senators to display the same kind of 
courage that came from David Ritcheson, the victim of a brutal hate 
crime that scarred him both physically and mentally. Rather than living 
in fear, David bravely came before the House Judiciary Committee and 
courageously--courageously--described the horrific attack against him 
the year before.

We should fight to protect the rights of our fellow citizens such as 
David and not let a veto threat stop us from doing the right thing. 
With both the Senate and the House moving forward on this legislation, 
I hope the President will hear our call and that he, too, will support 
this much-needed measure.

Nobel Prize laureate Elie Wiesel said:




 Indifference is always the friend of the enemy--


 Indifference is always the friend of the enemy--for it 


 benefits the aggressor, never the victim, whose pain is 


 magnified when he or she is forgotten.


Today, we can take a strong stand against indifference and 
intolerance.

Dr. King reminded us all that ''our lives begin to end the day we 
become silent against the things that matter.'' Today, this body has a 
chance to break the silence. It has the chance to speak with one voice 
in support of the value of every individual in our society. Join me and 
my colleagues in breaking the silence. Make the fight to end violence 
driven by bigotry the high national priority that it should be. Now is 
the time because, as Reverend Martin Luther King reminded us:




 The time is always right to do what is right.


Now is the time for Congress to speak with one voice and insist that 
all Americans will be guaranteed the equal protections of the law. I 
urge all my colleagues to support this amendment.