---
---

# None
## `a63933c06d78cc881ea8228787827751`
`Mrs. BOXER — 31 July 2007`

---


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise today to support the 
reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program--an 
essential effort to ensure the health of our Nation's children.

For the past 10 years, the Children's Health Insurance Program has 
helped provide health care for millions of children from working 
families that do not qualify for Medicaid but can't afford private 
insurance. These are the children of working families whose companies 
do not offer health insurance to their employees.

As the cost of health insurance rises and an increasing number of 
employers are unable or unwilling to provide health insurance to their 
employees and their families, the number of families who do not have 
health insurance has continued to rise.

While the number of the uninsured continues to rise, the percentage 
of low-income children without health insurance has dropped more than 
one-third since the creation of the Children's Health Insurance 
Program.

Currently the Children's Health Insurance Program provides coverage 
for 6.6 million children nationwide. This reauthorization would provide 
health care coverage for an additional 3.2 million children who are 
uninsured today. In California, an estimated 250,000 children will be 
added.

The Children's Health Insurance Program has always enjoyed the 
bipartisan support of our Congress, our Governors, and our President--
which is why I am shocked by the inadequacy of this administration's 
plan to insure the children of our Nation's working families.

The President is spending $10 billion each month in Iraq but has 
threatened to veto a bill that will provide 10 million children with 
access to health care. Under the President's proposal, he is willing to 
fund the Children's Health Insurance Program with an increase of $1 
billion a year--the cost of 3 days in Iraq.

Under the administration's proposal, we end up counting how many 
children will lose health insurance instead of how many we can enroll. 
In the first year, the President's plan would eliminate health care 
insurance for 200,000 children in California alone--and the number of 
uninsured children would continue to climb.

This shortfall in funding would result in 800,000 children who are 
currently enrolled to lose their coverage. I ask the President, what 
does he propose these children do when they are sick?

If we fail to renew this program or if the President vetoes this bill 
as he has threatened to do, it is the children who will pay the price.

There is not a man or woman in this Chamber who wouldn't do 
everything within their power to ensure the health of their own 
children--we should do no less for the children of our Nation.

The Members of this Congress have overwhelmingly expressed a 
commitment to children's health. Earlier this year, we passed a budget 
resolution which set aside $50 billion for the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, reaffirming our commitment to the continued success 
of this program.

We can still do more and we will, but this bill is a step forward in 
the right direction.

I would like to thank Senators Baucus and Rockefeller, Senators 
Grassley and Hatch and the members of the Finance Committee who worked 
so tirelessly to bring this legislation forward in a bipartisan way, 
and keep the focus of this bill where it should be--on the children.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.

