# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENTS TO H.R. 4899,  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a646161d261b98847c9a2c43dc3d0ff7`
`Mr. McGOVERN — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I actually agree with the gentlelady in my disappointment that the 
President has decided to submit a supplemental bill to fund this war in 
Afghanistan. But I think it is not--it is a little bit, well, unfair 
for her to criticize President Obama when President Bush


did this routinely. And we have spent over $1 trillion, $1 trillion on 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. And the vast majority of that money 
is not paid for. It's all borrowed. We're not paying for it. Our kids 
will pay for it and our grandkids and our great grandkids.

And, you know, so I find it also a little bit puzzling that we're 
having this, we had this debate earlier today over the extension of 
unemployment benefits for the millions of people who are unemployed in 
this country due to this terrible economy. And my friends on the other 
side of the aisle said, well, we can't afford it. We can't afford to 
pay for it so we're going to deny these citizens who have fallen on 
hard times the ability to get unemployment compensation.

Yet, when it comes to funneling money to the corrupt Karzai regime, 
we're a bottomless pit. So I think all of us, Republicans and 
Democrats, need to come together and figure out how to get this right.

And I hope that the gentlelady will join with me and my colleague, 
Dave Obey, in supporting our amendment asking for the President to 
develop a plan consistent with his statement that we will begin the 
withdrawal of our forces in July of 2011.

Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
Garamendi).