# IKE SKELTON NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `a6491633187233e679f0cd522044ec65`
`Mr. McKEON â€” 17 December 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise to speak with a heavy heart for a couple of 
reasons. One is the process that has brought us to this point. And the 
other is that this will be the last defense bill for my good friend and 
partner on the committee, Ike Skelton, our chairman.

He has been a force on the committee and within the defense community 
for decades. The way he has conducted business on the committee sets an 
example for all members of the committee and for this Congress to 
follow.

Considering Ike's legacy, the actions of the Democratic leaders in 
the Senate and the House are all the more frustrating to me. They have 
made it completely clear that they place a higher priority on repealing 
the Pentagon's Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy than on the National 
Defense Authorization Act.

The procedure that is set up in the House for passing legislation is, 
for the House to pass a bill, it goes through committee, goes through 
hearings. Finally it is passed by the committee, passed on the floor. 
And then a similar process should be followed in the Senate. And then 
once those two bills have been passed, we have conferees appointed. The 
conferees get together and negotiate the differences in the bills, and 
final bills are brought back to the floor.

To this date, we have not had a Senate bill passed on the floor. So 
this brings us to this point without a Senate bill and giving 
individual Senators the opportunity to have a line-item veto on the 
House bill after we pass it here and send it back over.

Many of the provisions that we have passed in our bill went through a 
semi-conference, and some of the provisions which were championed by 
the House, including a higher pay raise for our troops than the 
statutorily mandated pay raise of 1.4 percent, a provision which would 
have exempted critical force protection and medevac personnel from any 
troop cap in Afghanistan, and several provisions regarding the Nation's 
nuclear and missile defense policies, those found themselves on the 
cutting room floor of the conference. Most of those provisions have 
significant support in the House of Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, the American people have spoken. And in the process that 
we had, the election, they are demanding a process that is better than 
the one that got us to this point. They want a legislative process that 
works to provide our troops with the resources they need, not a process 
that is held up for months and then rushed through in the waning 
minutes of a lame duck session.

The process in the Senate, coupled with the Democratic leadership's 
goal of advancing legislation to repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell ahead of 
the annual defense authorization bill, has politicized the National 
Defense Authorization Act, and it's indicative of a flawed process with 
misguided priorities. In a time of war, Mr. Speaker, this is 
unconscionable.

One thing I can promise to the American people and to our military: 
They will no longer be used as a political football. We will return to 
regular order in the next Congress, and I think that is something that 
we can all look forward to with pleasure.

Now, back to my good friend, the chairman on the committee. I want to 
commend him for years of service to this Nation, to this Congress, to 
the people that he has represented. We all owe him a debt of gratitude, 
and I have appreciated working with him, especially in these last 2 
years, as I had the opportunity to serve as the ranking member 
alongside him. We will all miss him. Ike, we owe you much and 
appreciate your service.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.