# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a656e3f658ad1739b76abc8c258e5b9b`
`Mr. ARCURI — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. ARCURI. Madam Speaker, Americans are outraged with the present 
course in Iraq. Here we are more than 4 years later with 3,100 of our 
brave men and women killed, fighting a war that has cost our Nation 
$370 billion.

It has become overwhelmingly clear that the current strategy to 
secure the peace of Iraq is failing. And yet the administration 
contends that sending more combat troops into Iraq is somehow a silver 
bullet that is going to quell the ongoing violence. I couldn't disagree 
more.

The resolution before us today establishes two overwhelmingly clear 
and concise principles that are supported by a large majority of 
Americans, and I am confident will garner a great deal of support for 
many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

First and foremost, we support our brave service men and women. They 
have done everything that has been asked of them, bravely and 
honorably; and for that, we in Congress and the people all over America 
will be forever grateful.

Second, and simply, we oppose sending additional troops into Iraq.

Madam Speaker, during this debate some of my colleagues have used the 
term ''victory'' in their remarks. Victory. But no one, not one of my 
colleagues in this Chamber, nor anyone in this administration, has yet 
to clearly define what victory in Iraq really means.

At one point we were told victory meant getting rid of weapons of 
mass destruction. Then, of course, we learned there were no weapons of 
mass destruction. When that didn't work, we


were told victory meant toppling a dictator, and that we would be 
greeted as heroes. We toppled the dictator, but of course we were never 
greeted as heroes. And yet, still no victory.

The administration then told us establishing elections would 
constitute victory. There have been several elections in Iraq, yet 
still no victory. And all the while, the casualties have continued to 
rise.

Earlier this week, I had an opportunity, for the first time, to visit 
with wounded soldiers recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical Hospital. 
Seeing firsthand the devastating injuries that some of our brave 
soldiers have endured has troubled me in a way that I have not known 
before. As an American who loves his country very much, and as a father 
of two teenagers, it became crystal clear to me right then and there 
what exactly victory in Iraq means. I think victory in Iraq means 
bringing as many of our troops home alive as possible, the way I would 
want to see my two children brought home, if they were in Iraq. That is 
what victory is about, is bringing as many Americans home alive as we 
possibly can.

Madam Speaker, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle had the 
better part of 3 years to use their position in the majority to change 
the course in Iraq. They did nothing. No resolutions; few, if any 
hearings; and no accountability. How many more American lives are worth 
risking to continue an ill-conceived and poorly planned strategy that 
is clearly not working?

The American people answered that question last November. They have 
had enough, enough political rhetoric, enough stay the course, and most 
importantly, enough of the loss of life.

Some of my colleagues are trying to mischaracterize this resolution. 
They say this resolution somehow demonstrates a failure to support our 
troops. That is ridiculous.

Let me be clear, perfectly clear. Everyone in this Chamber, 
Republicans and Democrats alike, support our brave men and women 
serving in the Armed Forces. Simply because we believe the best way to 
support our troops is to bring them home does not mean that we don't 
stand behind them. In fact, I think it means a greater commitment of 
support to them.

Madam Speaker, I was not elected to blindly follow along. I was not 
elected to accept the status quo, and I was not elected to be a rubber 
stamp. I was, however, elected to stand up when necessary and say no, I 
disagree. And that is exactly what we are doing here today, we are 
standing and saying we disagree.

The American people have run out of hope. They are tired of the 
failed policies of this administration. It is time for a new approach. 
It is time for a new strategy, and it is time for a new direction