---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `a65c7231928a9c969b80a6837134c3d9`
`Mr. SHULER — 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. SHULER. Mr. Speaker, earlier this week, we entered the fifth year 
of the war in Iraq. Throughout that this Congress has provided the 
President with all the resources needed to wage this war. However, this 
body failed to provide any of the oversight he needed. Today, this 
Congress will correct that lack of oversight, while still providing our 
troops the funding they need and our military leaders the flexibility 
they require.

Today we say an open-ended commitment to this war is no longer 
acceptable. We say that we will no longer grant the President a blank 
check.

The war in Iraq has already lasted longer than World War I, World War 
II, and the Civil War. Continuing this war in the same manner with no 
accountability from the Administration or requirements on the Iraqi 
government is unacceptable.

Today, we stand up for our men and women in uniform; we honor our 
veterans, and we begin a new course to securing Iraq by passing H.R. 
1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq 
Accountability Act.

Passing this emergency funding guarantees our troops will have the 
equipment and resources they need. This bill demands that our troops 
are fully mission capable and meet the readiness standards set by the 
Department of Defense before we send them to war. And this bill demands 
the Iraqis get off the sidelines and begin fighting for their country.

The people of Western North Carolina sent me to Congress to ask the 
tough questions and demand accountability on this war. I have attended 
briefings at the White House and the Pentagon where I have been able to 
ask those questions. I have spoken to generals and troops on the 
ground, veterans and the families of those fighting. I have listened to 
my constituents, and I have prayed. I am confident that supporting this 
bill is the proper course of action. Soldiers support this bill. 
Generals support this bill. Veterans support this bill. The families of 
those fighting support this bill. A vote against this bill is a vote 
against our troops.

I am confident that this bill is a step in the right direction 
towards promoting a just and stable Iraq, and in bringing our nation 
closer to the day when all of our troops can return home to the warm 
welcome of a grateful Nation. May God bless our troops and their 
families, and may God bless the United States of America.