---
---

# None
## `a666831ef3cb2da33d1cc35fb291a4e2`
`Mr. CAPUANO — 26 June 2009`

---


Mr. CAPUANO. Madam Speaker, my friend, Senator Richard T. Moore was 
honored recently at the commencement of the New England College of 
Optometry. I wanted to share his remarks, as his address justly paid 
tribute to the school, its faculty, and graduates for their commitment 
to public service.













A Vision for Health Care




 President Chen, Chairman Manfredi, Vice Chairman Ferrucci 


 (my friend and personal Optometrist), Members of the Board of 


 Trustees, parents, alumni, friends, and most especially, my 


 fellow graduates of the Class of 2009 . . . I'm honored to 


 share in your celebration today and to receive a degree from 


 this prestigious institution with its well-deserved 


 reputation for improving access to care, enhancing the 


 quality of life by preventing blindness, and developing 


 innovative, economically viable models of eye care.



 Visus per mentem, vision through the mind, has long been 


 the motto of this great College. It is a phrase that reflects 


 a sincere commitment to learn the skills and knowledge 


 necessary to serve others, as well as a deeply felt belief 


 that you can help people to see the world with more clarity 


 and purpose--to give in a way, the gift of sight--or at least 


 improved vision. Hopefully, your clinical experience working 


 at the New England Eye Institute and in community health 


 centers and school or elderly vision clinics, has kindled in 


 you to a desire to devote some portion of your time, treasure 


 and talent to bring quality eye care to the underserved of 


 our society.



 Few, if any of you, in the Class of 2009 could have 


 attended New England College of Optometry for four or more 


 years without deriving from your studies, from your 


 outstanding instructors and most of all from your own inner 


 hearts some sense of inspiration and idealism as well as an 


 appreciation of your social responsibility as a newly-minted 


 health care professional.










Continue the Legacy of Community Service




 Graduates of New England College of Optometry who preceded 


 you have blazed a trail of community service through vision 


 research and care that is almost legendary! They left an 


 inspiring legacy upon which you and your classmates can now 


 build. With your OD degree in hand, challenge yourselves to 


 follow in the footsteps of exemplary alumni such as Charlie 


 Mullen OD ''69 (who addressed you a few moments ago) and 


 Kenneth Myers OD ''74, who firmly established vision care as 


 a focus of the U.S. Veterans Administration. Their pioneering 


 work is, today, helping wounded veterans of the wars in Iraq 


 and Afghanistan to see beyond the trauma of war and return to 


 productive lives in our communities.



 Then, there's Edward Goodnig OD ''76. He brought his 


 knowledge and skills to underserved regions expanding primary 


 care opportunities for Alaska's Native American settlements 


 and schools. You may also know of Frank Thorn OD ''79, 


 today's Commencement Marshal and an expert on the causes and 


 development of Myopia, who has shared his professional 


 knowledge and restless energy from this campus on the banks 


 of the Charles River to remote villages in the Amazon Rain 


 Forest and--in Marco Polo fashion--from Europe to China. 


 Their exciting and fulfilling careers, chronicled in the 


 College's 2008 Annual Report, offer a glimpse of the 


 potential that awaits you as today's graduates.



 Such stories of successful graduates can teach, they can 


 offer hope, they can provide inspiration. But they cannot 


 supply the courage to follow your own path. For that each of 


 you must look into your own hearts. Accept your degrees today 


 with the same pride, enthusiasm, and commitment that launched 


 those pioneers of Optometry into rewarding lives of caring 


 service.










 Continue to Learn and Share Knowledge




 Never be too busy to keep from learning how to better serve 


 your patients. That includes sharing your real world 


 knowledge of your patients and the condition of their eyes 


 with those involved in academic research here at New England 


 College of Optometry and elsewhere. It also means staying 


 informed about the rapidly changing science of your 


 profession. Each of you, my fellow graduates, as our newest 


 health care professionals, have a responsibility to continue 


 your education by maintaining competency in vision care and 


 in the technology necessary to deliver the best quality of 


 care to all who seek better vision.



 Whether your career takes you to remote regions of America 


 or the world, or takes you back to wherever you may call 


 ''home,'' remember one of the basic concepts that you learned 


 here in the Back Bay, that eye care professionals are an 


 integral part of the team of primary care providers, and 


 deserve to be treated with the same degree of 


 professional respect as any other health care 


 professional! In this era of health care reform, each of 


 you will play an essential role in not only diagnosing and 


 treating conditions of the eye, but you will also serve as 


 part of the team of professional caregivers who assist and 


 support each other for the benefit of every patient.










Massachusetts as a Model for the Nation




 For the past four years, as each of you have been immersed 


 in becoming competent, dedicated vision care professionals in 


 the classrooms at 424 Beacon Street, I've been learning the 


 lessons of health care reform about a mile away in the State 


 House meeting rooms at 24 Beacon Street. The grades are now 


 in, and the results are clearly informing the growing 


 national debate on health care. Massachusetts is leading the 


 way in health care reform! We are:



 First in the nation in health care access.



 First in electronic health records and e-prescribing.



 In the forefront of patient safety, quality improvement, 


 and cost containment.



 Leading the way in prescription drug ethics.



 In just three years, 432,000 Massachusetts residents, who 


 were previously un-insured, have gained access to health care 


 and the many stories of lives saved or improved are truly 


 heart-warming.









 Optometry's Contribution to Health Reform




 One of the challenges facing Massachusetts and the Nation 


 in fully realizing the health improvement and cost savings 


 benefits of health care reform is the need to expand patient 


 access to primary care. It is just as important--and less 


 expensive--to keep people healthy, as well as to treat those 


 who are ill. We have made great progress in expanding access 


 to health insurance for the people of Massachusetts, but 


 there is still an unmet need for easy access to primary care 


 providers. I believe that optometrists, such as each of you, 


 are ready--even anxious--to help to fill some of that void.



 To address this challenge, those who pay for health care 


 need to embrace new payment models that support wellness as 


 well as coordinating care for those who suffer from illness, 


 injury or less than good health. Any such wellness effort 


 needs to include regular screening--such as vision 


 screening--and be coordinated with health information 


 technology such as through a centralized vision care 


 registry.



 Major stakeholders in health care reform obviously include 


 the physician community. The Massachusetts Medical Society, 


 the oldest, continuously operating state medical society in 


 the United States, is the primary voice of physicians in the 


 development of public policy. However, it sometimes seems to 


 me that the society's policy positions have evolved far more 


 slowly than the progress of science itself.



 An old baseball player once said, ''I don't question the 


 integrity of an umpire, just his eyesight.'' Similarly, I 


 don't question the integrity of our state medical society, 


 just their vision! As fewer medical doctors enter the field 


 of primary care, the medical profession needs to embrace 


 other health professionals who, with appropriate training 


 such as that provided by the New England College of 


 Optometry, can do much to provide safe, cost-effective care 


 for patients needing attention.



 It's high time for all Massachusetts physicians to rise 


 above the tradition-bound guild-mentality that confounds 


 health care progress, and respect the education and 


 experience of all health professions in treating the whole 


 person. It's time for Massachusetts to embrace treatment 


 regimens for optometrists that are already fully accepted in 


 49 other states, if we are to offer quality care that is 


 convenient and affordable for patients. You, the Class of 


 2009, must make your voices heard as that debate unfolds!



 It was Robert Kennedy who once challenged an earlier 


 graduating class at another college--''to decide, as Goethe 


 put it, whether you will be a hammer--or an anvil. The 


 question is whether you are to be a hammer--whether you are 


 to give to the world in which you were reared and educated, 


 the broadest possible benefits of that education.'' So I 


 challenge you to get involved in writing the health care 


 policy of your generation--be a hammer!











A Vision for Health Care in America




 You are graduating at a most exciting time in health care! 


 As you begin your professional careers in vision care, health 


 reform is about to take center stage in the national arena. 


 National health reform is likely to include minimum standards 


 for benefits, an individual insurance mandate, a guaranteed 


 issue requirement for health insurance, a prohibition on 


 excluding coverage of pre-existing conditions, the creation 


 of an insurance exchange where people can sign up for 


 coverage--all factors that are included in the Massachusetts 


 health reform effort.





 If we view health reform through the lens of the ongoing 


 Massachusetts experiment, there are some fundamental 


 principles to anchor the national effort.



 1. Each of us has an individual responsibility to take care 


 of our health--including screenings and check-ups, as well as 


 maintaining health insurance to help pay for our care and 


 that of our families.



 2. Each of us has a collective responsibility, as citizens 


 of a caring society, to support public policies that 


 guarantee access to safe, high quality, affordable and 


 patient-centered health care for everyone in society.



 3. Each of us, in the field of health care, has a 


 professional responsibility to strive for the highest level 


 of competency, to ensure that we, and our colleagues in the 


 patient care team, deliver the right care at the right time 


 and in the right place.



 These principles can serve as a shining beacon for health 


 reform in the nation, much as this Commonwealth led the 


 nation in propagating the principles of democratic 


 government, social progress, and educational excellence 


 throughout its proud history.



 Massachusetts'' first Governor, John Winthrop, wrote in 


 1630 about the social experiment being launched in this New 


 World. He called upon his Puritan brethren and all their 


 descendants to share their resources and gifts with others, 


 ''rejoice together, mourn together, labor and suffer together 


 so that--''the world will say of succeeding plantations, may 


 the Lord make it like that of New England . . . we shall be 


 as a city upon a hill. The eyes of all people are upon us.'' 


 Sharing our gifts with others is the cornerstone of health 


 care reform in Massachusetts and, I hope, it will be your 


 personal cornerstone in your health care careers as well.



 Truly, the eyes of all people in America are focused on the 


 Massachusetts health reform experience as a framework for 


 bringing expanded access to quality care to all Americans. 


 But that's not all we're contributing to health care. This 


 morning, Massachusetts is sending forth from this city upon a 


 hill, a new class of highly skilled, and energized health 


 care professionals with their degree in optometry in hand!



 While past experience may teach us to be skeptical of the 


 promises of any politician, to those of you who will dedicate 


 your health care careers to the betterment of your state and 


 all her people--I can promise a lifetime of challenge and 


 opportunity, sometimes exciting and rewarding, sometimes slow 


 and difficult, but always, always worthwhile.



 And let me add one final bit of parting wisdom: No one ever 


 injured his or her eyesight by looking on the bright side of 


 things! The economy will improve! You'll earn a good living! 


 And those of us in government can't wait to share in your 


 success every April 15th!
