---
---

# None
## `a672821ad63698c9bece2b381dbd9364`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 31 October 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, if I can intervene here, I mean, you 
look at the money that we're borrowing and then we're giving tax cuts. 
So it's not that we have the money laying around here and say, boy, 
we've got a lot of money laying around here, why don't we just give the 
wealthiest people in our country the money back. We're actually going 
out to China and OPEC countries and borrowing the money to give tax 
cuts, and then we borrow the money from OPEC countries to fund the war 
to get oil from the Middle East.


This is the most convoluted scenario that you almost think you've got 
to read a Tom Clancy novel to drum it up. And then when you look at the 
priorities that aren't getting funded here that we're now trying to 
fund, and on the House floor today we had the minority leader, we had 
the minority whip, we had all the leadership of the Republican Party 
tell us how somehow funding education, lowering tuition costs, reducing 
the amount of student debt that our students are going to have to 
incur, funding community health clinics is somehow not an important 
priority, that somehow if we put all these bills together with the 
defense bill and the veterans bill and education bill and health bill, 
that somehow those aren't all American priorities, that somehow when 
these vets get back, that because all these bills are somehow put 
together in a process that's going to speed this whole thing up, that 
somehow when those vets get back, they don't need health care, their 
kids don't need health care. Somehow when the vets get back that they 
don't need education, they don't need increased Pell Grants to send 
their kids to school.

Am I missing something here? Like these vets are out fighting for our 
freedom here, just for a defense bill, or just for a vets bill, that 
they're somehow not fighting for some of these basic, fundamental 
American values that we have. And look what's going on back at the 
ranch when our friends are playing around with the budget, not wanting 
to pass legislation, passing tax cuts for the top 1 percent, look at 
the hole we've gotten into.

Now, this is something that is very important to me, and I remember a 
few weeks ago I was at my brother's house who has two young kids, 
Dominic and Nicky. One's 1 and one's 2. And my sister-in-law said it's 
scary about these toys. I remember her saying that.

Here's from 2001, and it goes up as the years come, the amount of 
imported toys coming from China. Okay. Over here, the yellow line that 
drops off, that is the number of Consumer Product Safety Commission 
employees going down. So we only have 400. As the number of imports 
from China and toys come into our country goes up, the Bush 
administration has reduced the number of Consumer Product Safety 
employees to actually monitor these toys. Same thing's going on with 
food.

So when you look at these mixed priorities, you know, sometimes we 
think, well, the war's going on in a far-off place or it doesn't affect 
me. If you've got kids and you've got toys, this irresponsible behavior 
that we saw in Katrina, we saw with the government contracts in Iraq, 
comes right into your household because of a lack of investment into 
the United States.