---
---

# None
## `a69120f17aa1ab3151a1b48e8a114ba4`
`Mr. DOGGETT — 8 June 2009`

---


Mr. DOGGETT. Thank you very much, Chairman Filner, and thank you 
Ranking Member Boozman, for the leadership that each of you provides 
for those who have served our country.

The return of a soldier or sailor to civilian life is a tradition as 
old as the Republic itself. Just outside this House Chamber in the 
great rotunda of the Capitol is a portrait of General George Washington 
resigning his command in the Continental Army at the close of the 
Revolution.

In his farewell orders to his troops in November of 1783, he praised 
the brave men, retiring victorious from the field of war to the field 
of agriculture. He urged his soldiers to participate in ''all the 
blessings which have been obtained,'' and asked rhetorically, ''In


such a Republic, who will exclude them from the rights of Citizens and 
the fruits of their labor?''

Washington reminded this Congress of its duty to support these new 
veterans, he said, ''so that the officers and soldiers may expect 
considerable assistance in recommencing the civil occupations.''

Well, today, more than 34,000 of America's troops have been wounded 
as a result of their brave service in Iraq and in Afghanistan. Of these 
men and women, about 8,000 have suffered traumatic brain injuries and 
another 1,200 have undergone amputation of a limb.

Battlefield injuries like this don't end on the battlefield, and as 
General Washington long ago confirmed, neither should our commitment to 
these wounded warriors. When it comes to recovery, the road back to 
civilian life can be long, and it can be difficult. Complications arise 
from amputations. They can force a veteran to return repeatedly to the 
Veterans Administration for medical care; or what begins as a migraine 
may turn out to be a traumatic brain injury requiring a battery of 
time-consuming tests.

Even those veterans that live near a veterans facility find it 
difficult balancing their medical requirements with other demands on 
their time; and, of course, many veterans live far away and must travel 
a long distance, like a veteran in Luling, Texas, who must drive back 
and forth to the VA hospital in Temple in what may take 4 or 5 hours.

But this is not the only long road that some veterans confront. This 
legislation is the result of problems that some Texas veterans brought 
to my attention. They said wounded veterans should not be fired after 
they exhaust their sick and vacation leave to receive care for injuries 
that a VA doctor says they need that they incurred while defending our 
country.

I agree. And they said there ought to be a law supporting our 
veterans, and I felt confident when the Veterans' Affairs Committee and 
this Congress heard their plea, they would answer, as they have today.

You see, Madam Speaker, some employers have policies limiting the 
amount of time that an employee can be out on sick leave. An employee 
that exceeds that limit may be terminated; and as the law is written 
today, this means an employer can legally terminate a veteran with a 
service-related disability for receiving the care that he or she so 
desperately needs.

I stand here today to say that is not good enough. Our veterans 
should not have to choose between their lives and their livelihoods. No 
veteran should have to stand in front of their employer after suffering 
an injury while serving the Red, White and Blue and be told, you have a 
pink slip. I am sorry, you can't have a job. But the fact is that this 
has happened, and it has happened to some simple Texas veterans.

In 1994, when the Congress passed and President Clinton signed the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act to clarify 
and strengthen the Veterans Reemployment Rights Statute, its first 
purpose was to encourage non-career service in the uniformed services 
by eliminating or minimizing the disadvantages to civilian careers and 
employment which can result from such service.

Now that we are 15 years down the road, it is time to take decisive 
action to develop policies that evolve with the changing needs of our 
troops. That is what the Wounded Veteran Job Security Act that we 
consider today that I authored seeks to accomplish. It amends existing 
law to establish a right of veterans who receive treatment for illness, 
injuries and disabilities incurred or aggravated by uniform service to 
the United States to be retained by their employers.

I appreciate the support of the American Legion, the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, the Fleet Reserve Association, and the Disabled American 
Veterans, important organizations representing our veterans who have 
endorsed this legislation.

This legislation requires employers to retain a person who is absent 
from work because they are receiving medical treatment for a service-
related injury or disability. It grants the servicemembers the same 
seniority and other rights and benefits that they had prior to 
receiving treatment, and it seeks to ensure that these servicemembers 
receive the same rights and benefits as other employers who are on 
furlough or leave of absence.

Our service men and women selflessly put aside their civilian lives 
to step into uniform and serve the cause of freedom and stand up for 
all of us. Today, it is our responsibility to stand up for them.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation to ensure no 
American veteran ever has to choose between getting well and getting 
paid.

I thank the leadership on the committee.