---
---

# CONTINUING EXTENSION ACT OF 2010
## `a6927322f869d3ba938dea5a400079d9`
`Mr. ENSIGN — 15 April 2010`

---


Mr. ENSIGN. I have a couple of other observations and comments to 
make. I expressed this to General McChrystal and Ambassador Eikenberry 
when we had one of our briefings regarding the various aspects of the 
international coalition including USAID, the State Department, the 
military, all the members that make up what are called PRTs, provincial 
reconstruction teams. In that meeting, I asked the question about how 
much money we were spending now. It was very clearly a concern, when we 
were talking about the economy of Afghanistan and whether it would be 
able to support this large army and large police force we are putting 
into place. So I asked the question: How much money are we spending 
now, how much money is going to be needed in the future, and for how 
long is that money going to be needed?

President Obama has talked about us starting to withdraw troops about 
the middle of 2011. As we are to start drawing down some troops there 
around July 2011, it became obvious to me that we are going to have a 
commitment there for some time, and I think it is important for us to 
be honest with the American people, first of all, about how much it is 
going to cost. I think a conservative estimate, for many years to come, 
is that we are going to be talking about spending at least $10 billion 
a year--around $6 billion to support their army and their police force 
and another $4 billion as far as helping build their economy.

The Afghan economy can eventually take over if their natural 
resources come to be what the U.S. Geological Service says some of 
their minerals are worth; what they think the oil and gas reserves 
potentially are. China is coming in to build probably the largest 
copper mine in the world there, but it is going to take years to 
develop these resources. So that is one of the things I came back with. 
We need to be a little more open with the American people that we are 
going to be there for a while and it is going to cost us quite a bit of 
money. We should be able to say to our constituents back home: Here is 
how much we are going to be spending and here is why it is in our vital 
national interest.

The other thing we haven't taken a lot of time to talk about is 
Pakistan. First of all, we have some great leaders over there, as well 
as Ambassador Patterson and Vice Admiral LeFever. They are the military 
leaders over there, and their teams are impressive as well.

As Senator Brown mentioned, we visited a refugee camp, and we also 
visited a base that we built over there for Pakistanis to train. The 
Pakistanis who train there are called the frontier scouts and they work 
in the tribal areas to help fight the Taliban. It is in our interest to 
be able to do that.

I was very encouraged by what I saw in Pakistan, by the new leaders 
there giving up some of their power voluntarily, the new President, and 
seeing Pakistan as much more of an ally to the United States in the 
future. In general, I thought that part of our trip to Pakistan was 
very much worthwhile.

I would conclude my remarks with that, and turn it over to the 
Senator from Massachusetts.