---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a6941001063ff1761838f823b10c20c2`
`Mr. BARTON of Texas — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BARTON of Texas. Madam Speaker, I attended the Charlie Norwood 
funeral today in Augusta, Georgia. He was a veteran of Vietnam. I think 
it is ironic that because he was a veteran, we saw at the beginning of 
the funeral the honor guard walk in carrying the flag of the United 
States Army and the flag of the United States and all the battle 
ribbons on that flag, that as 70 to 80 of the Members of this body were 
showing respect to Charlie and his family, we were having this debate 
on another war.

The resolution before us is a sham resolution. It is nonbinding. I 
have voted on resolutions of war and peace in my time in this Congress. 
I voted on the first gulf war resolution back in the early nineties 
when we thought that there might be tens of thousands of body bags 
coming back with our troops in them. I voted on the first resolution 
supporting our President in this war after 9/11. Remember 9/11? We had 
more American citizens killed in one day in the Twin Towers and in the 
Pentagon than we have had in all the years that our troops have been in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. That doesn't demean their sacrifice. I have 
attended three funerals in my hometown of young men who have been 
killed in the line of duty in this current war.

This nonbinding resolution tries to have it both ways. It says at the 
first, in part A, we support the troops and in part B, we don't support 
our President's decision, the Commander in Chief, to send these 
reinforcements. Well, if it's nonbinding, why have the debate? I think 
it's commendable that we are having this debate. I wish it would have 
had some meat on it. Let's put a real resolution on the floor. But the 
Republicans weren't offered an alternative, so we have to vote for or 
against a nonbinding resolution that has it both ways in the 
resolution. I don't think that is very becoming to this Congress.

But when the time comes, I am going to vote ''no'' because I believe 
as Thomas Jefferson believed, and if you go to his monument not too far 
from here and look up around the ceiling, Thomas Jefferson says, ''I 
have sworn upon the eternal altar of God unending opposition to all 
forms of tyranny over the mind of man.'' This Islamic terrorist 
campaign is a direct attack on our democracy. It is a direct attack on 
our tolerance. We need to support our President. We need to vote 
against this nonbinding resolution. And then if we want to have a real 
resolution, let's bring it to the floor and have that debate.

I rise today in opposition to H. Con. Res. 63. This nonbinding 
resolution serves only to degrade and demoralize the troops currently 
engaged in forward operations and those additional troops President 
Bush has called upon. This is not a call for a new direction in Iraq 
nor is this a call for a new course of action. This is a political 
distraction and a call to our enemies around the world by showing a 
lack of resolve and fostering the idea of uncertainty towards support 
and funding for the men and women of our Armed Forces.

Speaker Pelosi and her fellow Democrats have charged that the 
previous policy did not work, the new policy will not work, and yet 
amongst all this rhetoric my colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
do not have a constructive alternative to put forth. Instead they offer 
legislation that if enacted would fuel the call for setting timelines 
and the withdrawal of our troops. To leave before the job is finished 
would leave our country in a weaker position globally and leave the 
Middle East without any hope for democracy to ever take hold. The 
extremists that oppose us are against freedom and we are right to be 
engaged in the fight for democracy and tolerance. The stakes are high 
and our enemies know this. They are not going to quit, but if we pass 
this resolution it will be the first step in signaling that we will. It 
is right to support the President as he lays out his plan for securing 
Iraq and is in our national interest.

The necessary framework for democracy has been established and the 
labor of our brave troops has produced many measurable results. A 
constitution was written by the Iraqis resulting in democratic 
elections where nearly 12.5 million people braved the threat of 
violence to cast their votes. A fair criminal trial was held for Saddam 
Hussein, the country's former dictator, who denied that right to his 
own people. I urge my colleagues to let the Iraqis lead and give 
democracy a chance. Establishing a secure Iraq, a thriving democracy 
and a noticeable reduction in crime will pave the way for numerous 
infrastructure improvements.

Sustainable achievements in the reconstruction effort include the 
building of more than 5,000 schools, the training of more then 60,000 
teachers, the training and equipping of 323,000 police and military 
forces, the vaccination of 98 percent of Iraqi children, the ability of 
more than 7 million people to access phone service, the repair of 
nearly all of Iraq's railway stations, the restoration of electricity 
output and oil production to near prewar levels and the increased 
availability of clean water and sanitation. The milestones that have 
been reached are a testament to why we should not abandon our presence 
in Iraq. Progress is being made and we must continue to support our 
troops and Iraq's democratic government.

The President's call for more troops is a decision not made in haste. 
It is made with careful consideration and thoughtful advice from his 
commanders both at home and in the field. The additional troops will 
work with Iraqis to solve serious challenges and to find ways to curb 
future outbreaks of violence. To achieve success in combating those 
serious challenges it is important that America stands with Iraq so 
they can defend their own soil, create a sound economy and govern 
themselves effectively. The President understands the consequences of 
failure in Iraq, something this resolution proves the Democrats do not 
comprehend.

I have been to the funerals of men and women from my district that 
lost their lives in this war. I have pinned medals on the chests of the 
brave men and women from my district who returned home safely. Visiting 
with families at home and troops in Iraq I have seen first hand the 
effects this war has on Americans. This resolution serves to discredit 
the memories of fallen soldiers, the efforts of those still fighting, 
and to embolden our enemies. If we remember, our enemies attacked us on 
September 11th and instead of living in fear and leaving ourselves open 
to more attacks we chose to take the fight to them. In the time since, 
there has not been another major terrorist attack on U.S. soil. That is 
a testament to the fight our men and women are waging to protect the 
freedoms we so richly enjoy. I remain committed to supporting our 
forces serving abroad and ensuring they have the funding they need to 
complete their mission.

Some of my colleagues misguidedly stand to dismiss our efforts in 
Iraq. I stand with the resolve of former President Thomas Jefferson who 
said, ''I have sworn upon the altar of God, eternal hostility against 
every form of tyranny over the mind of man.'' We must not stand divided 
and turn our backs on those fighting for democracy where tyranny 
threatens to reign. We must be steadfast and support them in every way 
we can. We can not let the difficulty of the task diminish our support 
for the troops and the cause for which they are so diligently fighting. 
We must not let this frivolous resolution pass.