# None
## `a69580ced33f57440333c75020bcaf4f`
`Mr. WHITEHOUSE — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. There is more. These are not isolated counts but 
signs of an agency corrupted in every place the shadowy influence of 
the Bush White House can reach.

Administrator Johnson forced the resignation of EPA's Regional 
Administrator for the Midwest, Mary Gade, who was locked in a struggle 
with corporate polluter Dow Chemical Company. The circumstances are 
highly suspicious. Administrator Johnson has replaced Ms. Gade with a 
former attorney for the automobile industry, whose record on behalf of 
the environment has been described as ''horrible.''

The EPA, under Administrator Johnson, has reduced the reporting 
burdens on industries that release toxic chemicals into our land, sea, 
and air. It has weakened enforcement and monitoring by opening fewer 
criminal investigations, filing fewer lawsuits, and levying fewer fines 
against corporate polluters.

It has failed to protect agency employees who pointed out problems or 
reported legal violations or attempted to correct factual 
misrepresentations made by their superiors and created an atmosphere 
where employees fear reprisals.

In the face of widespread criticism that his agency is in crisis and 
that he is a pawn of the White House and its allies in polluting 
industries, Administrator Johnson's response was to label all those 
concerned, many of whom are dedicated career employees of his agency, 
as ''yammering critics,'' clearly a man after Spiro Agnew's own heart.

The EPA has a vital mission. When this great agency is weakened and 
its work subverted by political interference, there is a great cost to 
this country. When EPA scientists and career employees become 
discouraged as their voices go unheard, there is a great cost to this 
country. When the


people of America lose faith that the Environmental Protection Agency 
actually lives up to its name, there is a great cost to this country. 
When those who were chosen to serve this country instead serve 
themselves, their political allies, and their patrons, there is a great 
and lasting cost to this country. It is a failure of integrity, and 
that is a failure we can no longer afford.

We demand integrity--democracy demands integrity--of our public 
officials, not just because integrity is an abstract moral good but 
because democracy fails without it.

Integrity sustains our democracy in such important ways. The first is 
integrity to the truth. In Government, when the facts are clear enough 
for responsible people to act, it is a failure of integrity to fail to 
confront those facts. As the late Senator from New York, Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan, famously said: ''You are entitled to your own opinion; you 
are not entitled to your own facts.''

America has traditionally been characterized by candid and practical 
assessment of the facts, a can-do attitude about responding to those 
facts, and bold decisionmaking to find our way through those facts. 
Practical, can-do, optimistic, realistic--that is the American way. 
When Government doesn't face the truth about the facts, it will almost 
certainly fail to meet the demands of the moment and fail to serve the 
interests of our people. That is what is happening at EPA. They simply 
will not face facts plain to any responsible person.

However, facts are stubborn things. They do not yield to ideology or 
influence. They do not care about your politics. Unanswered they stand, 
getting worse, and eventually the piper must be paid. If facts aren't 
candidly, realistically, and responsibly faced, not only will the 
problem get worse but the very capacity of the Government to address 
problems candidly, realistically, and responsibly, that capacity will 
itself degrade when not put to use. So there are ugly, lasting 
consequences when Government officials fail at their obligation to meet 
the truth head on.

Another integrity is to honesty. As failures of truth have a harsh 
cost in Government, so do failures in honesty. I have sworn in new 
assistant U.S. attorneys. I have sworn in new State assistant attorneys 
general. I have presided at nomination hearings. Every time I have seen 
the same thing: a little spark of fire, a moral fire sparked when 
someone makes a choice to earn less money than they would otherwise, to 
work a lot harder than they would otherwise, to dare greater challenges 
than they might otherwise, all in order to serve the larger purpose, to 
serve an ideal, to serve America.

This spark of fire inspires young men and women to tackle problems 
that may seem unmanageable. This spark of fire keeps people at their 
desks late into the night when others have gone home to their families. 
This spark of fire brings idealism and principle to decisions and 
illuminates a moral path through the complexities of Government.

The value in Government of that spark of fire burning in the hearts 
of a thousand men and women--our real thousand points of light--is 
immeasurable. EPA is sustained by that spark of fire.

But this spark of fire is quenched in the toxic atmosphere of 
dishonesty whose guiding principles are help your friends, please your 
patron, dodge your responsibilities, and fudge the truth. Dishonesty 
and idealisms do not cohabit.

The third integrity is competence, a vital integrity. If we are to 
address the present and looming problems a new administration will have 
to face--a war without end in Iraq, an economy on a sickening slide, a 
broken health care system, a country divided into two increasingly 
separate Americas, a public education system that is failing, the 
dangerous weight of an alarming national debt, foreign policies that 
have unhinged us from responsible world opinion, bickering and 
irresolution on problems such as immigration and global warming--we 
must see competence as a core integrity. We must demand competence of 
Government officials as a bare minimum, a core necessity.

Unfortunately, as one discouraged official has complained: ''In the 
Bush administration, loyalty is the new competence.''

Administrator Stephen Johnson is a failure in all these dimensions. 
From everything we have seen, Administrator Johnson has done the 
bidding of the Bush administration and its political allies without 
hesitation or question and in violation of his clear duty. He has tried 
to cover up his dereliction of duty with evasive and discreditable 
testimony. He has acted without regard for the law or the 
determinations of the courts. He has damaged the mission, the morale, 
and the integrity of his great institution--the Environmental 
Protection Agency--and he has betrayed his solemn duty to Americans who 
depend on him to protect their health, particularly our very youngest 
and our very oldest whose vulnerability is greatest.

Administrator Johnson suggests a man who has every intention of 
driving his agency onto the rocks, of undermining and despoiling it, of 
leaving America's environment and America's people without an honest 
advocate in their Federal Government. This behavior not only degrades 
his once great agency, it drives the dagger of dishonesty deep into the 
very vitals of American democracy. The American people cannot accept 
such a person in a position of great responsibility.

I am truly sorry it has come to this, but that is why this afternoon 
I called on Administrator Johnson to resign his position. I encourage 
my colleagues to look closely at these concerns. Look at the reasons. 
Look at what I have prepared. Whatever decision colleagues may come to, 
I hope all understand I come to this decision sincerely and after much 
review and reflection and with no pleasure.

I thank the President, and I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1





 U.S. Senate, Committee on Environment and Public Works,


















Washington, DC, July 29, 2008.


 Hon. Michael Mukasey,


 Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice,


 Washington, DC.



 Dear Attorney General Mukasey: As members of the Senate 


 Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), we are 


 writing to ask that you open an investigation into whether 


 the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 


 (EPA), Stephen L. Johnson, has made false or misleading 


 statements before the EPW Committee.



 We do not make this request lightly. However, we believe 


 that there is significant evidence to suggest that Mr. 


 Johnson has provided statements that are inconsistent with 


 sworn testimony and documents provided in connection with an 


 investigation conducted by this Committee. These false, 


 misleading, or intentionally incomplete statements relate to 


 the decision announced by EPA on December 19, 2007, to deny 


 the request by California for a waiver under Section 209 of 


 the Clean Air Act. After Mr. Johnson's testimony, a former 


 senior aide to Mr. Johnson at EPA, Jason Burnett, provided 


 sworn testimony before the EPW Committee on July 22, 2008, 


 that appears to contradict Mr. Johnson's testimony on key 


 factual matters.



 For example, Mr. Johnson stated under oath before the EPW 


 Committee on January 24, 2008 that he based his denial of the 


 California waiver request on California's failure to meet the 


 ''compelling and extraordinary'' circumstances criterion 


 under Section 209, and that he reached this decision 


 independently. However, Mr. Burnett testified that Mr. 


 Johnson had in fact determined that California met this 


 criterion and the other Clean Air Act criteria necessary for 


 approval of the waiver, and that the Administration's 


 decision to deny the waiver was based on the President's 


 policy preferences, rather than the lack of compelling and 


 extraordinary circumstances.



 In addition, Mr. Johnson testified before the EPW Committee 


 that the decision to deny that waiver was solely his 


 decision. However, Mr. Burnett testified that Mr. Johnson had 


 a plan to grant the waiver and had concluded that the 


 statutory criteria for granting it were met, until it was 


 ''clearly articulated'' by the White House that the 


 President's ''policy preference'' was to deny the waiver.



 We also are concerned about Mr. Johnson's testimony that 


 the energy legislation enacted by Congress and signed by the 


 President on December 19, 2007, was not substantively related 


 to his decision announced on the same day to deny the 


 California waiver, which he asserted was based upon his 


 finding that the waiver did not meet the Clean Air Act 


 statutory criteria. Mr. Burnett testified, however, that Mr. 


 Johnson had required extensive analysis of the impact of this 


 energy bill in evaluating whether to grant the waiver, and 


 that it was the President's policy preference that led to the 


 denial of California's waiver request, because granting the 


 waiver or a partial grant of the waiver would have led to two 


 standards, not one, as the President desired. The energy bill 


 established a single standard for vehicle fuel efficiency, as 


 the President desired.





 It appears that Mr. Johnson's account of the California 


 waiver decision is factually inaccurate or misleading. We 


 take the inconsistency between Mr. Johnson's testimony and 


 other evidence very seriously. False testimony by any witness 


 is serious and undermines our ability to fulfill our 


 constitutional duties on behalf of the American people. Our 


 concern is heightened because this decision by the EPA 


 Administrator affects the health and wellbeing of the 


 American people. For these reasons, we have no choice but to 


 refer the matter to you for appropriate investigation and 


 prosecutorial action.



 We look forward to your prompt response on this matter.





 Sincerely,


 Barbara Boxer,



 Chairman.


 Sheldon Whitehouse,



 U.S. Senator.


 Amy Klobuchar,



 U.S. Senator.


 Frank R. Lautenberg,


 U.S. Senator.