---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `a6961653fcc3472e3fb75206329d392e`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 10 March 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. I thank the distinguished chairman for his kind words. 
I particularly thank him for his leadership in structuring a budget 
that I am convinced, unlike the President's budget, speaks to the 
shared values of the American people, speaks to the priorities that our 
Nation needs to pursue, meets the challenges our country has, and 
ultimately goes to the very heart of turning this economy in a much 
different direction so that it can work for working families.

Under his leadership, we have a budget that I am proud to support on 
the floor of the Senate. And whether you live in the East or West or 
North or South, I think Americans will find this budget, as they become 
more fully aware of it, is one that has the integrity, the honesty, as 
well as the purposes to meet the challenges. The chairman deserves 
enormous credit for working with all Members on both sides to try to 
achieve those goals, and I appreciate his leadership.

Madam President, this week in the Senate, we are fighting for the 
economic future of America. This is the week that we put together on 
the floor of the Senate the Federal Government's budget. And that 
budget is more than just a balance sheet of revenues and expenditures, 
it is a balance sheet of priorities and values. The lines of numbers 
come together to form a bigger picture, laying out a vision of where we 
plan to lead the Nation.

Every year, when we make the budget, we look at where our country 
stands, at how we can improve the lives of the American people, and 
what we can do to make sound investments that brighten the future of 
generations to come.

It is a responsibility that we cannot afford to take lightly. When we 
create a budget, we have to answer some fundamental questions: What are 
the most important problems we face as a nation? What are the 
challenges of middle-class working families? How do we meet those 
challenges?

Several weeks ago, President Bush gave us his answer. And his answer 
was, there is nothing wrong with America that cannot be fixed by giving 
away more tax breaks to the wealthy, giving away more subsidies to big 
oil companies, continuing the war in Iraq, and never admitting what it 
costs.

The President is fighting to keep taxes low for the wealthy and wants 
to make it up by charging veterans more for their health care. 
Apparently, that is the answer some of my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle are giving as well. They agree with the President the 
American people should cover their eyes, pretend their problems do not 
exist, that everything magically will work itself out.

I believe a vote for the President's budget is a vote for the status 
quo. It is a vote for the way things are going in America in terms of 
this economy.

The Democrats see things quite differently. Here is what we see: Our 
economy is continuously weakening, and tens of thousands of people are 
losing their jobs. The price we pay for health care is spiking through 
the roof, while the value of our homes is falling through the floor. 
Baby boomers worry about whether they are going to be able to retire 
with dignity, and senior Americans are worried that the strong base of 
Social Security could crumble right under them. Our climate is in 
crisis, and our attachment to an umbilical cord of foreign oil means 
our entire way of life hangs by a liquid thread.

The Government is going into debt to the tune of more than $10 
billion per month to finance a war in Iraq that has not made any of us 
safer, while local police and fire departments are getting squeezed for 
funds, and crime in our neighborhoods is on the rise.

If you have worked in Newark all your life and just lost your job, we 
hear you. If you are scared to walk through your neighborhood in Camden 
because there is violence on the streets, we hear you. If your family 
may be in danger of losing your home in Trenton or Long Branch or North 
Arlington; if you are teaching at a school with a budget stretched as 
far as it can go in Hamilton, Plainfield, or Asbury Park; if your 
commute to work just keeps getting more frustrating in Cherry Hill; if 
every day you drive by a barren industrial site that is not being 
redeveloped in Penns Grove or Paulsboro; if it is a struggle to pay 
your college tuition in New Brunswick or pay your heating bill in Toms 
River or pay your health care costs in Edison, Democrats understand 
what people--certainly I do--all across America are going through.

None of us can stand and pretend one budget can be the magic bullet 
that makes all of these problems disappear. One year is not enough time 
for that. One year cannot undo 7 years of the Bush administration's 
mismanagement that turned a record surplus into a soaring deficit. And 
1 year cannot undo 5 years of a war in Iraq that has claimed thousands 
of American lives and incinerated more than a half trillion dollars 
that we could have used to make American lives better.

In one budget we cannot fully fund all of the programs that deserve 
our support or give the tax relief we want to middle-class working 
families, not under this administration. But this year, we can set the 
wheels in motion of the long and indispensable process of change. We 
can develop a plan to meet the challenges we face head on, and we can 
start to move our country forward.

This is exactly what the Senate Democratic budget does. Here is the 
vision our budget puts forth for our Nation, a nation that is more 
prosperous, with more affordable health care, on the path to energy 
independence, a nation of safer neighborhoods, better schools, a nation 
of which we can all be proud.

Above all, our budget is designed to get our economy growing, get our 
economy growing and moving again. That is the first and foremost 
priority of this budget. The Bush budget, supported by many of our 
Republican colleagues, creates jobs in China, while the Democratic 
budget creates good-paying jobs in America. The Democratic budget 
focuses on rebuilding our infrastructure, expanding incentives for 
green initiatives and industries, and investing in math, science, and 
engineering and technology so American businesses can create and keep 
the best jobs here in America.

Our budget puts the family budget first. It provides middle-class tax 
relief by extending the marriage penalty relief, a child tax credit, a 
patch for the alternative minimum tax that will protect millions of 
middle-class families from paying higher taxes next year; it works to 
make college more affordable by extending a tuition tax credit; and it 
supports job training programs that will prepare the workforce for the 
21st century.



This budget moves us down the road to energy independence. It helps 
create a highly skilled workforce and green-collar jobs. I am proud of 
the push for funding for energy efficiency and conservation block 
grants, a provision I authored in our last Energy bill to provide 
cities with support for projects that foster more efficient use of 
energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

We all know oil and natural gas prices are sky high, the sea levels 
are rising, along with the temperature. So this program is a key part 
of our strategy to meet those challenges.

The Democratic budget recognizes we cannot think about national 
security without thinking about hometown security. While our resources 
are being drained day after day on the streets of Baghdad and Mosul, we 
are struggling to protect high-risk targets on the streets of our own 
neighborhoods.

We know our police departments are just a phone call away during an 
emergency. Our brave men and women in law enforcement have dedicated 
themselves to serving and protecting our communities. So it is 
unbelievable to me that the Bush administration has reduced or 
eliminated nearly every major anticrime program over the course of the 
last 7 years, especially since crime and violence have been on the rise 
in the country, according to the FBI reports.

Crime is going up, violent crime is going up, and the Bush 
administration's cuts to the most essential public safety programs, the 
very essence of homeland security, go down. What should be going up is 
going down. What should be going down is going up. How can we expect 
law enforcement to carry out their responsibilities and respond in a 
moment's notice when the Federal Government is backing out of its 
responsibility to support law enforcement?

People in my home State of New Jersey remember on September 11 that 
it was not the Federal Government that provided the immediate response, 
it was the local police, the firefighters and emergency management and 
medical units from our hometowns. Yet in the years after September 11, 
the administration has left our local communities to shoulder far too 
much of the financial burden. Our budget, however, will ensure that 
first responders across the Nation will get the resources they need.

I was proud to work with Chairman Conrad to ensure that homeland 
security grants that our communities rely on most were protected in 
this budget. The Democratic budget restores more than $2 billion in 
misguided cuts the President made to State homeland security grants, to 
port security, interoperable communications, rail and transit security.

Our budget will ensure that States facing threats from high-risk 
targets or densely populated areas, communities that are near ports, 
chemical plants, airports, cities with mass transit or rail systems, 
will not be shortchanged. By restoring more than $750 million in grants 
to firefighters, we will also ensure that our fire departments can buy 
new equipment or ensure that our fire stations are fully staffed. 
Unlike the President, we will keep our commitment to fulfilling the 
recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, and we will keep our commitment 
to our first responders.

We more than double the funding for the Byrne/JAG Program that many 
local law enforcement officials across the country consider the most 
successful crime prevention program in recent history. I am proud to 
have introduced the amendment that was passed unanimously in the Budget 
Committee setting aside a minimum of $520 million to fund it. I am 
going to ensure that we continue to support this vital program.

We have also included language to help the FBI cut down its massive 
backlog in evaluating immigration applications for those who follow our 
rules to legally enter the country. Cutting down this backlog is 
essential if the FBI is going to be able to quickly separate those who 
have come to pursue the American dream versus those who may have come 
to destroy it.

Our budget puts a priority on making health care more affordable and 
more accessible to all Americans. We have worked to create a reserve 
fund to block President Bush's unilateral changes to Medicaid that 
would severely reduce Federal health care funds to States for low-
income families. This was the very essence of the social safety net 
that we as a society should be judged by.

The reserve fund would also help protect New Jersey's FamilyCare 
Program from the President's Draconian cuts to children's health 
coverage scheduled for this summer. We have included support for other 
legislation, and this budget includes funding for the Patient Navigator 
Program, which I worked hard to have passed into law. If patients are 
having trouble figuring out the complicated health care system we are 
in, but they do not know how to get early screening or do not know 
about options for follow-up treatment, patient navigators make sure 
someone is there to help them.

Our budget also keeps our commitment to our schools, our teachers, 
and our students. I am proud that our budget provides the largest 
increase for elementary and secondary education in 6 years. Instead of 
taking money away from our schools while asking them to do more, our 
budget will fund programs that provide enrichment and opportunity to 
our students.

We do not just say education is a priority, we put our money where 
our values are by providing $3 billion more than the President for No 
Child Left Behind, and $8.8 billion more than the President for 
education and training overall.

We soundly reject the President's proposal to freeze education 
funding and eliminate 48 programs in the Department of Education, 
including education technology, mentoring, reading programs, and 
vocational education. Instead of pretending our young people are not 
facing severe hardships when it comes to paying for college, our budget 
makes the needed investments in grants and scholarships for college and 
allows for an increase in the Pell grant maximum next year. That is the 
support our young people deserve, and under this budget that is the 
support they are going to get.

I have often said, as someone who grew up poor in a tenement in Union 
City, NJ, the first one in my family to go to college, that would never 
have happened but for the power of the Federal Government being able to 
provide me grants and loans. That power gave me the educational 
opportunity and foundation that allowed me to be the junior Senator 
from New Jersey. The reality is, that should be a birthright for every 
young person in our country who is willing to work hard and give 
something back to their Nation.

This budget meets that battle. Let me close by saying our debate over 
the budget is a debate over the direction of the economy, the 
fulfillment of our shared values, and the direction of our country. The 
President and those who support him are offering the same old ideas 
that got us into this mess in the first place, ideas that have weakened 
the economy and hurt the middle class.

If you ask for more of the same, it seems to me, you get more of the 
same. Those who are happy with the economy that we are in would be 
happy with the President's budget. Those who are languishing, and that 
is the overwhelming majority of American families in this country, 
under the President's economic policies, the reality is they want to 
see change. That change is represented in the Democratic budget.

Democrats have a fiscally responsible plan to get our economy moving 
again and strengthen our national security. The budget we are putting 
forth cuts taxes for the middle class, creates a half million new jobs 
in America, and we do all of this while working toward the balanced 
budget and paying down debt.

It is a plan that puts forth a basic idea about what America should 
be. This should be a country where anyone willing to work hard can get 
an education and a job, a country where everyone has access to services 
that can keep them healthy, a country where a lifetime of hard work 
guarantees the right to retire with dignity, a country that knows its 
past and cares about its future.

Let's invest in that future. Let's pass this budget. Let's begin the 
hard work of making that vision a reality and changing economic 
circumstances for families. That is what this debate is all about. That 
is what the Democratic budget is all about. That is why I am proud to 
have voted for it in committee, proud to stand on the floor to


defend it, and proud to support Senator Conrad in his efforts in that 
regard.

I yield the floor.