---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a69886c5792174069a8e7a56c8efff01`
`Mr. HENSARLING — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. HENSARLING. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, various news organizations have now confirmed what the 
Democrats really have in mind with this nonbinding resolution, and that 
is, choke off funding for the troops.

Though they haven't really said it on this House floor, they have 
said it to their political base, moveon.org, and I hold the transcript 
in my hand. Let's listen to the words of our colleague, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murtha) who, as we all know, controls our 
military spending panel.

''They won't be able to continue. They won't be able to do the 
deployment. They won't have the equipment, they don't have the training 
and they won't be able to do the work. There's no question in my 
mind.''

He was further quoted as saying, ''We have to be careful people don't 
think this is the vote.''

Last evening, CBS News noted that our colleague's proposal ''is a way 
to get at the same goal without holding a vote to cut funding.'' Again, 
Mr. Speaker, that goal is to cut funding of the troops. The goal is to 
accept defeat.

Now, I know the author of this proposal has served his Nation with 
great courage and great honor, but I for one fail to see the courage 
and the honor in this proposal.

The Politico Magazine has called this proposal the ''Slow Bleed 
Strategy.'' The slow bleed strategy. I wonder who it is who is doing 
the bleeding.

Mr. Speaker, how does anybody look one of our brave soldiers in the 
eye and tell them, I don't believe in your mission. I don't believe you 
can succeed and I have the power to bring you home; I have the power to 
bring you home today but I am not willing to do it because, if I did, I 
would have to take responsibility and I am concerned about political 
ramifications.

Mr. Speaker, if my Democrat colleagues truly want to cut off funding 
for the troops and withdraw from Iraq, then let them vote on it today. 
Let them show the courage of their convictions and vote on it today. We 
cannot accept this slow bleed strategy.

Mr. Speaker, I know that fighting this war is costly. It is costly in 
terms of blood. It is costly in terms of money. Like many other of my 
colleagues, I have met with the mothers who have lost sons in Iraq. 
Their plight is profound; it is sad. But Mr. Speaker, I never, never, 
never want to meet with the mothers whose children might perish in the 
next 9/11 if we accept defeat in Iraq.

Iraq must be seen in the context of this larger war we are having 
with radical Islam. The battle lines are drawn, and whether we like it 
or not, they are drawn in Iraq. Don't take my word for it. Listen to 
Osama bin Laden. ''The epicenter of these wars is Baghdad. Success in 
Baghdad will be success for the United States. Failure in Iraq is the 
failure of the United States. Their defeat in Iraq will mean defeat in 
all their wars.''

We have to soberly reflect on the enemy that we are facing. Listen to 
the number two in al Qaeda, al-Zawahiri. ''Al Qaeda has the right to 
kill 4 million Americans, 2 million of them children.'' As the father 
of a 4-year-old and a 3-year-old, I find that to be a chilling 
statement.

Listen to Hassan Abbassi, Revolutionary Guard's intelligence adviser 
to the Iranian President. ''We have a strategy drawn up for the 
destruction of Anglo-Saxon civilization.''

This is the enemy we face, and we face him foremost in Iraq. If we 
leave Iraq before subduing him, he will follow us to America, make no 
mistake about it, and the consequences are immense. Read the National 
Intelligence Estimate. Read the report of the Iraq Study Group.

Iraq has the potential to become what Afghanistan once was under the 
Taliban, and that is, a breeding ground and a safe haven for the 
recruitment, training, financing and sanctuary of radical Islamists 
bent upon attacking our Nation and attacking our families. There will 
be no greater event to empower the radical Islamists in our defeat in 
Iraq.

Mr. Speaker, it doesn't have to be this way. We are Americans. We can 
meet this threat. We can work together. Vote against this resolution. 
Let's support our troops. Let's protect our Nation and our children 
from this threat.