---
---

# EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON IRAQ--MOTION TO PROCEED
## `a6a05d8696b1d57c8b3b2dd230901054`
`Mr. SCHUMER — 17 February 2007`

---


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, we have seen 4 years of obfuscation on 
Iraq from the White House and from previous leadership in this Senate. 
Those days are over this afternoon. Every Senator is going to have to 
step to the plate and say where he or she stands. The other side has 
tried to design resolutions where they can duck, they can avoid, and 
they don't tell their constituencies how they feel. Those days are 
over.

That is why this cloture vote is a crucial vote, not just for the 
moment or the week but for the history of America because today's vote 
is not on other aspects of what is going on in Iraq or Iran but simply 
this: Are you for or against the escalation? Plain and simple.

There should be a simple vote, not as an end to this debate but as a 
beginning of this debate. The minority is tying itself into pretzels so 
there will not be a vote. They are torn between their President's 
policy and the wishes of their constituents. But vote they must. If 
they avoid the vote this afternoon, their constituents will know 
exactly what they are doing.

On the policy, the President's escalation is misguided, to put it 
kindly. There is no change in strategy. We are policing a civil war in 
Iraq--something no one talked about 2 years ago, something no one 
bargained for. Our brave


young men and women, whom we so support, are standing in the crossfire 
between Shiites and Sunnis. This is not a fight against terrorism; this 
is a civil war, and there have been, unfortunately, thousands of them 
throughout history. American troops should not be in the middle of that 
war.

The President doesn't change the policy; he simply adds more troops 
to continue this misguided policy. That is why the majority of this 
Senate, and the overwhelming majority of the American people, are so 
opposed to this escalation, and we will vote on it this afternoon. But 
make no mistake about it, this is just the first step. It is just the 
first step. This is a process. Some of my friends and colleagues wish--
and maybe we do, too--that there could be a silver bullet, one 
resolution that could either end the escalation or even end the war. 
But there is not. The way our Constitution is structured, this 
Government, you need two-thirds to overcome a certain Presidential 
veto, when we do our next resolution with teeth.

So our job here, which this resolution begins, is to ratchet up the 
pressure on the President, on those who are still on his side in terms 
of this policy until they change. We will be relentless. There will be 
resolution after resolution, amendment after amendment, all forcing 
this body to do what it has not done in the previous 3 years--debate 
and discuss Iraq. And we believe that as that debate continues and as 
this process unfolds, just like in the days of Vietnam, the pressure 
will mount and the President will find he has no strategy. He will have 
to change his strategy, and the vast majority of our troops will be 
taken out of harm's way and come home.

So, Madam President, today is the beginning of a historic period, 
where for the first time in a while Congress debates foreign policy in 
Iraq and Congress tries to do something about foreign policy in Iraq.

To the brave men and women who are defending us today, whom we so 
support, thank you for your service, thank you for protecting us. We 
will continue to live by what the Constitution has asked us to do, 
which is to debate the issues and come up with what is best for our 
soldiers, for America, and for the world.

I yield the floor.