---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `a6ac198a8e5b9490d82dfc1c376be239`
`Mr. CARPER — 16 July 2009`

---


Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I was going to talk about aircraft and 
aircraft procurement, and I will do that. But before I do that, I feel 
compelled to respond to the comments of our colleague from Arizona with 
respect to health care.

It turns out, literally, as we gather here on the Senate floor today, 
negotiations are underway between Democrats and Republicans, led by 
Senator Max Baucus, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and 
Senator Chuck Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance 
Committee, to try to find common ground with respect to health care.

In a day and age when we spend more money on health care than any 
other nation on Earth, we do not get better results. I think we have 
14,000 people who are likely to lose their health care in our country 
today--in a country where we have 47 million folks who do not have 
health care coverage. We can do better than that. There is a strong 
bipartisan effort, led by two very good people--Senator Grassley and 
Senator Baucus--to find common ground.

As it turns out, I like to use the words of a friend of mine, Senator 
Mike Enzi of Wyoming, who talks a lot about the 80-20 rule and why he 
and Senator Kennedy have gotten so much accomplished--legislation 
coming out of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. It 
is because they agree on 80 percent of the stuff, disagree on 20 
percent of the stuff, and they focus on the 80 percent on which they 
agree.

I think the same could be said about the legislation that is being 
negotiated today, again, in a bipartisan way. The President has said he 
wants a bipartisan bill. Our leaders on the Finance Committee want a 
bipartisan bill. I want a bipartisan bill. I think in order for us to 
actually get something good, something done that improves the quality 
of health care that is provided in this country, that slows the growth 
of health care costs, and bends that cost curve down, and makes it 
possible for us to extend coverage to a lot of people who do not have 
it, it is enhanced by having bipartisan legislation.

I will not go further into that at this time. But I felt compelled to 
say I have not given up hope. My hope is that the efforts that are 
underway as I speak will bear fruit and maybe provide a roadmap to a 
plan we can agree to here in the Senate and in the House to build on 
the good work the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee has 
already done here in the Senate, and to enable us to find common ground 
with the House and, hopefully, with the Obama administration.

Having said that--I know this might be a good segue--we are spending 
a ton of money on health care in this country. If you look at the size 
of our budget deficits, if you look at how much we spend in the country 
for health care--I am told it is about one-sixth of GDP--that is not 
sustainable. Medicare is likely to run out of money in about 7 years 
from now. That is not acceptable. We end up, meanwhile, not getting 
necessarily better results, and a lot of other countries are spending 
substantially less.

We have great models for health care delivery in this country. I will 
mention a few of them that are showing the way to provide better 
outcomes at less money. They include the Mayo in Minnesota and in 
Florida; an outfit called Geisinger in Hershey, PA; Intermountain 
Health in Utah, Kaiser Permanente in northern California; a cooperative 
called Puget Sound in Washington State; Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, 
OH. There are a number of them. For the most part, they are nonprofits 
or cooperatives that have shown it is possible to provide better care, 
better outcomes, for less money than what we are getting in this fee-
for-service operation that we now call a health care delivery system.

We can do better. My hope is we will keep working at it and not give 
up and that we will continue to try to work across the aisle until we 
come up with a product we can bring to the floor and negotiate, debate 
it on the floor, and then go to conference with the House.

In terms of things that we spend a lot of money on--not just health 
care--we spend a lot of money on the defense of our country. That is a 
major priority for our Nation. If we go back to 1990s, 1980s, 1970s, we 
went for a long time without balancing our budgets. In fact, it was not 
until, I think, fiscal year 1999, under the Clinton administration, 
that we actually balanced our budget for the first time, I think, since 
1968. It was roughly 30 years, three decades that we went without 
balancing the budget. I think we did it again in 2000, and then when we 
had the handover from President Clinton to President Bush, we left the 
new President with a budget that was, I believe, balanced once more.

We sort of went from that point in time, kind of a high-water mark in 
terms of fiscal responsibility, and over the last 8 years we turned 
around and we went in the opposite direction. We ended up running up 
more new debt in the last 8 years than we ran up in our first 208 years 
as a nation. I will say that again. We ran up more new debt in the last 
8 years than we did in the first 208 as a nation. The debt for the new 
fiscal year, as we go through this worst recession since the Great 
Depression and trying to fight two wars, one in Iraq and one in 
Afghanistan, the meltdown in revenues, very high health care costs; we 
are looking at a budget deficit which, I am told for this year, may 
have already exceeded $1 trillion, which is the highest on record.

I chair a subcommittee of the Homeland Security and Government 
Affairs Committee in the Senate. One of our responsibilities is to 
help, along with our colleagues, to scrub spending. One of the things 
we do is we look for spending that doesn't make much sense or where 
there is waste, fraud or abuse. I might say, in response to my friend, 
Senator McCain's comments on waste in the Medicare system, one of the 
encouraging things in the last 3 years is we have gone out and done 
what we call postaudit cost recoveries in three States for Medicare. In 
California, Texas, and Florida, we have actually gone out to see where 
money has been wastefully spent and to see if we can recover that 
money. The first year we discovered almost nothing, the second year we 
found a little bit, and last year we found $700 million. In just three 
States we did that, and now we are going to be doing the same kind of 
thing in 47 States, hopefully recovering a lot more money for the 
Medicare system and maybe taking our lessons learned from recovering 
moneys misspent, inappropriately spent for Medicare, and do the same 
kind of thing for Medicaid, and that will put a lot of money back into 
the Treasury.

My subcommittee focuses on, among other things, wasteful spending, 
and one of the things we have looked at is cost overruns for major new 
weapons systems. With the help of the Government Accountability Office, 
we went back to, I think it was 2001, and we looked for cost overruns 
for major new weapons systems. In 2001, I think it was about $45 
billion. We have seen it ramp up from about $45 billion in cost 
overruns for major new weapons systems, GAO tells us by last year, or 
maybe it was 2007 or 2008, this number had grown to almost $300 
billion--from $245 billion in 2001 over the next 6 or 7 years to almost 
$300 billion in cost overruns.

Unacceptable. I think we have finally leveled off the increase. Not 
only is that kind of trend unacceptable, but the level of that enormous 
cost overrun in weapons systems is unacceptable as well.



In a day and age when our Nation is awash in red ink and in a day and 
age when we are involved in wars in Iraq and in Afghanistan, it is 
critically important that we spend every dollar--defense dollar and, 
frankly, nondefense dollars--as wisely as we can, to get the most out 
of that money, whether it is health care to make sure that the dollars 
we are investing there are spent cost-effectively or whether it is for 
defense to make sure that the money we are spending there is spent 
cost-effectively.

Senator McCain is a Vietnam veteran, and he is a real hero, for me. 
But we have people who have served here--I think one or two might have 
been around in World War II. Senator Inouye won the Medal of Honor 
during World War II. We have had people who served in the Korean war, 
the Vietnam war, and other times of peace, as well as in times of war.

I spent about 23 years, 5 Active, 18 years Ready Reserve as a naval 
flight officer and much of that as a mission commander of a Navy P-3 
aircraft built by Lockheed. We used the P-3 for years for ocean 
surveillance, tracking submarines during the Cold War so we would know 
where they were, and whenever we went up, we would know where to go 
find them and destroy them if we had to. The strategy was called 
mutually assured destruction. We, fortunately, never had to do that. We 
used them in the Vietnam war for a lot of coastal surveillance; low-
level flights off the coast of Vietnam and Cambodia. The P-3 was 
introduced into the fleet in 1960s, and it was introduced as a--
formerly used as a commercial airplane, a four-engine turboprop. We had 
problems with the P-3's wings. We used to say we were afraid they would 
fall off. I don't know if it was quite that bad, but we had real 
problems with the P-3s performing reliably as a naval aircraft and 
bouncing around the skies in all kinds of weather. A lot of work had to 
be done on the P-3 wing and, within a couple of years, we finally 
figured out the problem.

They are still flying. We are still using them in Iraq--not to track 
submarines but all kinds of missions. We have used them for electronic 
surveillance over the years and we have used them for drug interdiction 
and now they are doing some special work over in Iraq and that part of 
the world. It is an airplane which started badly as a military 
aircraft, but it got a lot better.

You can find the C-5As built in the 1960s, C-5Bs in the 1970s and 
1980s--rough startup, rough rampup on the aircraft. We had problems 
with the aircraft, and we are now overhauling the C-5Bs. We call them 
C-5Ms. And they are flying 85 percent mission capable. So that is very 
encouraging. It took a long while to work out the wrinkles, but I think 
we have now, and we are going to have a plane we will be able to fly 
for another 30, 40 years, getting a lot of good use out of it, meeting 
our military needs around the world.

The F-22 has been around for a number of years--not as long as the P-
3, not as long as the C-5, but it has been around for quite a few 
years. We have, I think, close to maybe 200 of them that either have 
been built or we are planning to build.

One of the things I find troubling--and I stand in support of the 
amendment offered by Senators Levin and McCain and ask unanimous 
consent to be added as a cosponsor of the legislation.