---
---

# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `a6b82201433d6b72b899d135d0cec8be`
`Mr. BAYH — 6 December 2010`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the life of SFC Barry 
Edward Jarvis of the U.S. Army and Tell City, IN.

Sergeant Jarvis was assigned to the 1st Squadron of the 61st Cavalry 
Regiment, 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, KY. He was 36 years 
old when he lost his life on November 29, 2010, serving bravely in 
support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan's Nangarhar 
Province.

Sergeant Jarvis and his family moved to Indiana when he was a boy. He 
graduated from Tell City High School in 1993 and finished Army basic 
training in 1998. A cavalry scout, Sergeant Jarvis was assigned to Fort 
Campbell in May of 2009 and deployed to Afghanistan 3 months later.

He was known by many as a genuine and dedicated soldier who found his 
calling in serving his country, and his numerous awards and 
decorations, including the Meritorious Service Medal, the Army 
Commendation Medal, and the Army Achievement Medal, bear out that 
reputation.

I join Sergeant Jarvis' family and friends in mourning his death. He 
is survived by his wife Tina Louise Jarvis of Clarksville, TN; his 
children Kitaira Aleesha, and William, also of Clarksville, and 
Donavon, of Evansville, IN; his father William Edward Jarvis of 
Atlantic Beach, FL; and his mother, Alma Jean Jarvis of Tell City, IN.

As we struggle to express our grief over this loss, we take pride in 
the example of this American hero. We cherish the legacy of his service 
and his life.

As I search for words to honor this fallen soldier, I recall 
President Lincoln's words to the families of the fallen at Gettysburg: 
''We cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have 
consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world 
will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never 
forget what they did here.''

It is my sad duty to enter the name of SFC Barry Edward Jarvis in the 
Record of the U.S. Senate for his service to our country and for his 
profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and peace.
