---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE  PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31)
## `a6b981eb0949ec66aad03dbade912d6f`
`Mr. OBEY — 2 May 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 1/1/2/ minutes.

The gentleman expresses his concern about funding designated as 
emergency spending. In fact, I would point out that the President 
himself asked for the antiflu money that we put in this bill. The 
President himself asked for that money 2 years ago as an emergency 
request.

I would also note, since he has expressed concern about our 
micromanaging the war, I would simply say we have had the 
administration providing us with bad intelligence. We have had the 
administration demonstrating bad judgment in saying we would be 
welcomed with open arms. We have had them demonstrate bad judgment in 
ignoring General Shinseki's warnings about the number of troops that 
would be needed to pacify a postwar Iraq. We have seen bad judgment in 
the President's refusal to talk to the Syrians and the Iranians. We 
have seen bad judgment all across the board for the last 4 years. It 
seems to me that we are badly in need of having some kind of management 
to that war, and if it is not going to come from the executive branch, 
then the only alternative is for the Congress to express its views.

Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from 
Maryland, the majority leader, Mr. Hoyer.