# TRIBUTE TO SENATORS
## `a6c4dcd168e080a4b1fa62474a91d099`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 25 September 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, today I wish Senator Allard well as he 
leaves the Senate, after 12 years here and 6 years in the other body. 
That is a long record of honorable service to the wonderful State of 
Colorado. During our time together in the Senate, I was very pleased to 
work with Senator Allard on a critical issue facing both our States: 
chronic wasting disease. I appreciated his commitment to fighting the 
spread of CWD, which was characteristic of his commitment to the people 
of Colorado throughout his time here. I wish him all the best as he 
leaves the Senate, and I thank him for his years of dedicated service 
to our country.

















Larry Craig


Mr. President, as Senator Craig retires from the Senate, I want to 
take a few moments to recognize him and thank him for his work on 
behalf of the people of Idaho. He devoted 18 years to serving the 
people of Idaho in the Senate, following 10 years of service in the 
House of Representatives. Senator Craig and I worked together in two 
very different, very important areas: protecting civil liberties and 
supporting America's dairy farmers. In both cases, he was dedicated to 
the best interests of the people of Idaho, and I am grateful for his 
efforts.

Senator Craig was a key member of the group of six Senators--three 
Republicans and three Democrats, including myself--who worked together 
to try to strengthen the protections for Americans' privacy rights in 
the Patriot Act reauthorization that we considered in the Senate during 
the 109th Congress. His willingness to work across party lines on that 
issue was commendable, and it was a critical boost to our efforts. 
Senator Craig understands the importance of protecting Americans' 
freedoms, and I applaud his commitment to these issues.

I also thank him for his consistent support of dairy farmers, another 
area where we frequently worked together. Senator Craig and I shared 
concerns about the impact of the Australia free trade agreement on 
dairy farmers, on the threat of unsafe importation of milk protein 
concentrates, and on nonfat milk price reporting errors.

Once again on these issues, Senator Craig put the needs of the people 
of Idaho first, and reached across the aisle to protect hardworking 
dairy farmers. After 28 years of service in Congress, Senator Craig is 
retiring from the Senate, and I wish him all the best. His hard work 
and dedication have made a valuable contribution to the Senate and to 
the American people.
















 Pete Domenici


Mr. President, today I thank Senator Domenici for his 36 years of 
service here in the Senate, longer than any New Mexican in the State's 
history. I have had the pleasure of serving with Senator Domenici on 
the Budget Committee, where his leadership has been a cornerstone of 
the committee's work for decades. I have always appreciated his 
willingness to listen to and accommodate different points of view 
through the years. I also thank him for his work on biennial budgeting, 
something I also strongly support and was proud to work on with him.

Senator Domenici's commitment to mental health parity is well known 
and deserves special recognition. It is fitting that, on the eve of 
Senator Domenici's retirement, the Mental Health Parity Act of 2008, 
which he worked on with Senators Dodd, Kennedy and Enzi, should pass 
the Senate. I was pleased to cosponsor this bill and look forward to it 
being enacted.

Finally, I thank Senator Domenici for his vote in support of the 
McCain-Feingold legislation when it passed the Senate in 2002. It was 
his support, along with 59 other Senators, that gave us that victory 
after a long fight to ban soft money. I will always remember and 
appreciate his support, and I wish him all the best as he retires from 
the Senate.

















Chuck Hagel


Mr. President, today I recognize the work of an outstanding 
colleague, Senator Chuck Hagel. As he leaves the Senate, there are many 
things he will be remembered for, and I will add a few to that long 
list. I have had the pleasure of serving with Senator Hagel on both the 
Foreign Relations and Intelligence committees, where I have seen what a 
thoughtful and dedicated public servant he truly is. He has been an 
outspoken and independent voice on foreign policy, and against the 
current Administration's reckless foreign policies, including the 
disastrous war in Iraq.

In our time serving together in the Senate, we have worked on a 
number of bills relevant to our work on the Foreign Relations and 
Intelligence committees. Senator Hagel and I authored a bill to address 
the serious threat posed to our national security by gaps in our 
intelligence gathering. Building


on the work of the 9/11 Commission, our legislation would establish an 
independent commission to improve how the U.S. Government collects and 
analyzes information, so that we can head off emerging threats. Senator 
Hagel has brought critical attention to this issue, and I have no doubt 
he will continue to do so in the years ahead. I also appreciate Senator 
Hagel's commitment to strengthening our citizen diplomacy, which is so 
important to improving the image of the U.S. abroad. His support for my 
Global Services Fellowship Program Act, and past efforts on this issue, 
has been just one more example of Senator Hagel's willingness to reach 
across the aisle to work on issues important to our country.

As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African 
Affairs, I particularly appreciate Senator Hagel's support for a more 
peaceful, secure, and prosperous Africa. He has supported efforts to 
help protect civilians and provide them with access to basic services. 
His voice has been one for political solutions to conflict, and for 
initiatives that would bring long-term stability to the continent.

Senator Hagel has served the people of Nebraska, and America, with 
great dedication and skill. I will miss having him as a colleague, but 
I value his service and his friendship, and I wish him all the best as 
he leaves the Senate.

















John Warner


Mr. President, today I thank Senator John Warner for his service to 
our country. Through his five terms in the Senate, and before that as 
Secretary of the Navy, Senator Warner has been an outstanding public 
servant. In the Senate he has worked hard for our country, and for the 
people of Virginia. As chairman and now ranking member of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee, Senator Warner has been a leader on a wide 
range of issues affecting our national security, and he has always 
approached those issues with the utmost determination to do what is 
best for the Nation and the American people.

Finally, I thank Senator Warner for his vote in support of the 
McCain-Feingold legislation when it passed the Senate in 2002. It was 
his support, along with 59 other Senators, that gave us that victory 
after a long fight to ban soft money. I appreciate his effort on this 
and so many issues, and I thank him for his dedicated public service 
over so many years.

