---
---

# INTRODUCTION OF THE CAN DO BILL
## `a6c8a4de70bff77bfb5a181545380297`
`Mr. RUSH — 28 September 2008`

---


Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, today I am introducing the Communities in 
Action Neighborhood and Opportunity bill, also known as the CAN DO 
bill. The Department of Justice reports that, on average, 45 people are 
shot and killed daily in America. Annually, there are 16,000-17,000 gun 
deaths in America.

In contrast, the total number of American casualties in Iraq, over 
the entire 5-year span of the war, is about 4,155 and for Afghanistan, 
it's at least 500. The combined total of casualties for Iraq and 
Afghanistan is less than 5,000 since both wars began. More Americans 
are killed in America than American soldiers killed in combat in Iraq 
and Afghanistan combined.

Madam Speaker, as elected leaders of this country, we must address 
this critical issue that inflicts so many of our most vulnerable 
communities. This issue of gun violence affects all Americans, white, 
black, Latino, and Asian. And gun violence pervades in all of our 
communities: urban, suburban, and rural.

This issue is not a black or white issue, and it is not an urban or 
rural issue. This is an American issue that we must address with all of 
the resources we have at our disposal.

The CAN DO bill offers a new strategy in dealing with gun violence. 
It combines strict law enforcement practices, along with new 
opportunities for mental health counseling, job programs, and 
educational and recreational services for at-risk youth and their 
families.

This bill is also unique in that it brings together the entire 
community to deal with the issue of gun violence by establishing 
partnerships between public agencies, businesses, community-based 
nonprofits, churches, schools, and universities. There is an ''all 
hands on'' approach in order to get all of the stakeholders involved 
and provide a comprehensive and effective strategy that families and 
communities can support and get behind.

As it is recorded by the Prophet Isaiah, ''They will turn their 
swords into plows, and their spears into pruning knives. Nations will 
not take up the sword against other nations and they will never again 
train for war''.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support the CAN DO bill 
and help end the destruction that is tearing apart so many of our 
communities. Americans of conscious must come together to stop the 
senseless death of ''The Daily 45.'' When will we say ''enough is 
enough, stop the killing''.
