# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `a6d2201af7016b73040b6761650c75d0`
`Mr. MURTHA â€” 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. MURTHA. Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago, I would not have voted for this 
resolution. Two years ago, I would not have voted for this resolution. 
One year ago, I would have voted for this resolution. But after seeing 
no progress in Iraq, none, zero, having misrepresentation coming from 
even the Pentagon, I am beginning to believe it is time that we have to 
send a very strong message to this administration.



The total number of U.S. troops killed in Iraq is 3,382. Killed since 
President Bush announced his surge is 366. We have lost more people in 
the last 4 months than we lost in any other period of the war, and that 
doesn't count the number that have been wounded, and all of us have 
been out there and seen the ones that have been wounded.

The foreign minister of Saudi Arabia in The New York Times last week 
said, ''We don't see anything happening in Iraq in implementation. Our 
American friends say there is improvement; improvement in violence, 
improvement in the level of understanding, improvement in disarming the 
militia. We don't see it.''

Admiral Fallon, he is the new commander in Iraq, the central 
commander. Admiral Fallon said last week in the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, ''Prime Minister Maliki's progress thus far has been 
disappointing. They are not moving, in my opinion, fast enough to 
support what we are trying to do. The number one question in my mind is 
the ability as well as the willingness to do this.''

Now, I said to the Iraqi National Security Adviser when he was here 
visiting me, I said, Look. I said, Originally we need a diplomatic 
effort, an international diplomatic effort. I urged him to change the 
Constitution. I urged him to pass a bill to spread out the oil 
revenues.

He said, Well, it's a slow procedure, and he started talking about 
how we needed to stay, and he talked about the war, he didn't call it a 
civil war, the insurgency and the al Qaeda.

I said, There is 2,000 al Qaeda. You don't think you can take care of 
2,000 al Qaeda when you have in your country 26 million people? I said, 
Let me tell you a story. My great-grandfather's Civil War hat sits on 
that shelf there. And I took it out and I showed him that. We fought 
our own civil war. And then I said, My ancestors fought in the 
Revolutionary War. They were rag-tag. They didn't have shoes. They 
fought in cold weather without cold-weather gear. They fought the 
greatest army in the history at that time, the greatest navy in the 
history at that time, the greatest empire in history at that time, and 
we beat them. We beat them by ourselves, with a little help from the 
French.

You have to do this yourself, I said to the National Security Adviser 
for Iraq. You have to win this yourself. We can't do it for you. I 
said, Your Parliament takes a 2-month vacation in the middle of a time 
when it is crucial to the history.

The American people, three-fourths of them, are unhappy with what is 
going on. The Congress more and more. Even some of our Republican 
friends need to help us convince this President that we need to move in 
the right direction, we need to change the direction of this war. I see 
in a news release that the President is now, after all this time, 
considering benchmarks. After all this time, the President of the 
United States is saying I'll consider benchmarks. He finally is 
starting to compromise. He has come off the pedestal and the President 
is starting to begin to realize that something has to be done to change 
the direction of this country.

All of us want to solve this. All of us want stability in the Middle 
East. All of us want to do the right thing. But it is not working. 
Electricity production, below pre-war level. Oil production, below pre-
war level. It has been that way for the last 4/1/2/ years. Incidents 
are up. If you look at the way the incidents have gone, every month 
they have gone up. They have gone down a little bit, but they have gone 
up the whole time. And more Americans were killed in the last 4 months 
than any other period during this war.

We need to change direction. We need to send a message. We need to go 
to conference and have some kind of a conversation with the White House 
so that they understand. I am glad to see some Republicans went to the 
White House and spoke the truth to this President and said to him, Mr. 
President, we need a change. You are destroying the Republican Party.

Well, that is one of those things where I won't go there.

But let me say this: we need to have a strong vote. We need to vote 
for this resolution, and then we need to pass the other bill and get on 
with our business.