---
---

# None
## `a6e17c2b14c087dd457d998592128c66`
`Mr. WARNER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. WARNER. I would say to my colleague, the President, when he 
enunciated his new policy on January 10, the purpose was to lay a 
foundation of security such that the Iraqi Government could perform in 
a manner given that the security is very serious in Iraq.

Even though I had misgivings about the surge, I put those aside once 
the President had made a decision to go forward. I wish to support the 
troops, and they are carrying out this mission. I think there is a 
strong chance there will be some measure of achievement of the surge 
militarily.

I agree with my colleague, the performance of the Iraqi Government to 
date has been extraordinarily disappointing. I have stated that on this 
floor a number of times, as have other colleagues. But the point I wish 
to urge is that if we were to take--tomorrow, for example--and begin to 
change the intentions of the Senate, which were expressed in law 49 
days ago, and suddenly announce a withdrawal program, as the 
distinguished Senator from Michigan has in his amendment, it would be 
perceived as an undercut to the very military operation we are trying 
to bring about now.

Why can't we wait until September, until the President has had the 
benefit of all the convergence of this information, and then, as a 
body, review his remarks and statements and possibly change the 
strategy subsequent to the 15th of September? Because I do believe that 
your amendment is in conflict with what we did 49 days ago.