---
---

# None
## `a6e6baa9abeb6aa77ac81120370140f9`
`Ms. RICHARDSON — 4 September 2007`

---


Ms. RICHARDSON. Speaker Pelosi, Leaders Hoyer, Clyburn, Emanuel, 
Becerra, Caucus Chairs Lofgren, Kilpatrick, Baca and Honda, the 
California delegation, thank you all for meeting with me, kind of 
putting me


under your wing, and really sharing your pearls of wisdom.

To Congresswoman Waters, for the last 120 days you have been 
tirelessly, unrelentingly instructive and even graciously transparent 
in your efforts to help me to get here. Thank you.

To my supporters and friends and family in the gallery, my 
consultant, manager, labor brothers and sisters, volunteers, friends 
and staff, I will individually thank you in the reception that will 
follow, but I would be remiss to not publicly acknowledge the dedicated 
work that you did to get me here. Thank you very much.

To my new colleagues, yes, on both sides of the aisle, it is my 
desire to establish a reputation to be a Member's Member. What that 
means to me is to be a hard worker, to be responsive, to be 
straightforward and honest, even if we disagree; and I hear that 
happens a few times here. You know, or you will learn to know, that I 
will keep my word.

To the constituents of the California 37th Congressional District, my 
job will be to focus as much on the war in America, the war of crime, 
poverty, inadequate health care, failing education, crumbling 
infrastructure, and sparse development as much as I will focus on the 
war in Iraq.

My job will be to prove that the poor aren't just poor because they 
want to be or because they don't want to work, that with job training 
and livable wages, not all urban youth choose gang life, and that 
blighted areas are not a result of ''white flight.'' Rather, they're a 
result of lack of investments and revitalization.

I also believe I have a responsibility to unveil the shameful sin of 
injustice, inequality and inequities that still do exist, and I've seen 
them and lived them, in this wonderful country today.

To the McDonald family, I will always be grateful to Congresswoman 
McDonald, who first hired me and trained me over 10 years ago. As a 
staffer, I almost got fired my first week because I left her in a 
church. And I fondly recall her saying to me, ''I guess I can't throw 
the baby out with the bath water.'' I respectfully stand today on her 
legacy as I reach towards my own destiny.

Finally, to the God that I serve and to my family who support me and 
love me dearly, my mother, my sister, my uncle, my nephew, haven't we 
come a mighty long way? My maternal grandparents, who emigrated here 
freely from Ireland and from Germany, and yet my fraternal 
grandparents, completely the opposite, who came here forcibly in chains 
and centuries of bondage. Who would have thought that the cost had a 
price that would require my payment?

A seed of hope, yet equally a seed of despair, a seed of opportunity, 
yet equally a seed of why I can't, a seed of love that was met with 
seeds of hate. Who would have thought, I guess those who built and have 
served in this sacred Chamber, many of you, that after all, that's what 
this place is for. For a girl like me at the age of six, who chose, 
after watching and living the civil rights movement, that really those 
of us who lived through the pains of struggle would one day have an 
opportunity to make sure that everyone really was free. I welcome this 
responsibility. Thank you.
