---
---

# None
## `a6fcb9e9e16cf12aa558c939f1241205`
`Mr. LEVIN — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. LEVIN. I yield myself 3 additional minutes.

According to our own State Department, the key threat to our effort 
in Iraq is the failure of the Iraqi political leaders to reach a 
political settlement. Listen to what the State Department said in its 
own weekly status report of November 21, 2007. This is our State 
Department:




 Senior military commanders [U.S. commanders] now portray 


 the intransigence of Iraq's Shiite-dominated government as 


 the key threat facing the U.S. effort in Iraq rather than al-


 Qaida terrorists, Sunni insurgents or Iranian-backed 


 militias.


Let me read that once again. This is our State Department saying what 
is the key threat to our forces in Iraq. What they are saying is that 
it is not the Iranian-backed militias, it is not the Sunni insurgents, 
it is not the al-Qaida terrorists; the key threat facing the U.S. 
effort in Iraq, according to our State Department, is ''the 
intransigence of Iraq's Shiite-dominated government.''

We have to break that intransigence. How can Congress do it? How do 
we put pressure on the Iraqi political leaders? At a minimum, by at 
least expressing our view that U.S. forces in Iraq should transition to 
a more supporting and a less direct role, with a goal--a goal, just a 
goal--of completing that transition by the end of 2008. The message the 
Iraqi political leaders need to hear is that Congress has lost patience 
with them, as have the American people. By their own Prime Minister's 
acknowledgment, a political solution is the only way to end the 
conflict, and ending the conflict is in their own hands.

I wish we could legislate a legally binding way forward for U.S. 
forces in Iraq. We have tried to do that. We have not been able to 
break the filibuster, to get to 60 votes. But at least expressing the 
sense of the Congress on this matter is better than silence because 
silence implies acquiescence in the open-endedness of our presence. It 
is that open-ended commitment which takes the pressure off the Iraqi 
political leaders, and Congress needs to act to correct that. Our 
amendment is a small but important step in that direction.