---
---

# ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a728f57e8cc06324749f3be5b706c699`
`Mr. AKIN — 14 November 2007`

---


Mr. AKIN. Mr. Speaker, before us tonight is yet another Democrat 
plan, a plan for failure. I guess it's really not quite so much a plan 
as just a schedule for failure.

It seems ironic to me that when there is actually success, the 
Democrats are having a hard time seeing the success. And that's, 
perhaps, because the success that is going on in Iraq is not a big 
government, Washington, D.C. beltway kind of success. It's not the 
Parliament in Baghdad where the success is going on. No, it's a 
uniquely American and a special success. It's the success that bubbles 
from the hearts of the very people that are involved, from the local 
communities, from the streets, and particularly from the sheiks. It's 
the kind of thing that happened in America where local communities 
stood up against the biggest military power in the world and defended 
our declaration in the same way these sheiks now are paying a 
tremendous price. One, Sheik Meshin al-Jamari, he was encouraged to 
come back from his safe haven in Jordan. He came back to take up 
responsibility for his tribal area just to the east of Fallujah. And 
what was the cost when he turned on al Qaeda? First, his daughter was 
killed, then his brother shot, and then his family rounded up inside a 
house in Karma, and the house imploded upon their heads. And yet, that 
sheik is standing firm because he does have a vision for the 
possibility that there will one day be an Iraq where people can be 
free.

Our General Allen was asked by some of the Iraqis in his tribe, they 
said, When the British left, they left us a big skyscraper. When 
America leaves Iraq, will you leave a skyscraper? And General Allen 
said, No. We'll leave the ideas that leave you a free people. And one 
day there will be Iraqis who come to us and they will say, Hey, GI Joe, 
we believe it too. We believe that there is a God that gives 
inalienable rights to all people, the right to life and liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness, and we will also stand with you because you have 
that hope.

It is my hope that the Americans and the Democrats will rediscover 
why we have always gone to war in America, because we do believe in our 
battle cry from years ago that there is a God that gives basic rights 
to all people and that we must have the courage to stand behind those 
things. I hope that the Congress will vote to reject a plan of defeat.