# RECOGNIZING APRIL AS OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY MONTH AND THE CONTRIBUTIONS  OF OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY TO OUR NATION'S VETERANS
## `a7302b4969cb6cee6bc59a1a21fb85e6`
`Mr. MICHAUD â€” 18 April 2007`

---


Mr. MICHAUD. Madam Speaker, I rise in recognition of April as 
Occupational Therapy Month and in my capacity as Chairman of the 
Veteran's Affairs Health Subcommittee, to acknowledge the contributions 
of occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants to not 
only our veterans across the country, but also our brave service men 
and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. I would also like to 
recognize the importance of occupational therapists to the families of 
our service personnel. We often forget that behind every soldier are 
loved ones who endure the hardship of the soldier while they are in 
harm's way and when they come home and take off the uniform.

Occupational therapy is a profession dedicated to the improvement of 
function, performance and independence. Occupational therapists work 
with individuals across their lifespan to prevent injury, restore 
function and reduce disability so that patients may live satisfying, 
productive and independent lives.

In my home state of Maine, occupational therapists provide essential 
health and rehabilitation services to veterans at the Togus Veterans 
Hospital and at six veterans' homes throughout the state including four 
in my district located in Augusta, Bangor, Caribou and Machias. 
Services provided in these locations stem from a range of conditions 
resulting from traumatic injuries experienced in combat such as 
amputations and poly-traumas, post-traumatic stress disorder, illness 
and disease and the disabling effects of aging.

In order to meet the need of veterans, Schools of Occupational 
Therapy in Maine, such as the Kennebec Valley Community College, work 
collaboratively with the veterans' facilities in the state to ensure 
that there are enough trained health care professionals, like 
occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants, to meet 
the needs of our veterans.

During the month of April, the American Occupational Therapy 
Association (AOTA) will be hosting the Association's 87th Annual 
Conference and Expo in St. Louis, Missouri. Occupational therapists, 
occupational therapists assistants and students of occupational therapy 
from around the country will gather to support the profession and 
further their educational preparation to meet the needs of their 
patients. State affiliates like the Maine Occupational Therapy 
Association (MEOTA) will also be represented to ensure that the 
concerns of local occupational therapy professionals and patients are 
addressed at the conference. Of specific note, there will be over 500 
education sessions including a panel to discuss active duty and 
veterans health care and the important role of occupational therapy for 
returning our service men and women to maximum function and 
independence.

Madam Speaker, please join me in supporting April as occupational 
therapy month and applauding the work of occupational therapists and 
occupational therapy assistants with our veterans, military personnel, 
and their families who deserve to receive the best care possible.
