---
---

# HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2010
## `a74969ee2edccd76df6214431ef9ea86`
`Ms. MIKULSKI — 24 March 2010`

---


Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, this is indeed a great day because we 
are passing real health care reform for American families, for American 
workers, for American small business, for seniors, and our communities. 
Health care reform will save lives. No longer will dreams and lives be 
endangered because people lost their health care insurance when they 
got sick, lost a job or had an accident.

I listened to the other side which says they listen to the people. 
You heard the old saying, ''Men are from Mars, women are from Venus.'' 
I think that party is from Mars and we are from planet Earth. I think 
they have been out in orbit. The planet Earth that I am on tells me to 
pass health insurance reform.

One of the reasons I am voting for this bill, the main reason I am 
voting for this bill, is the stories I heard from my constituents in 
Maryland--roundtables, townhalls, hearings, lots of letters, phone 
calls, e-mails. They told me about the situation in their lives, where 
they were terrified that one big health care incident could lead them 
into bankruptcy. They were terrified that if they had changed a job to 
one in our new high-tech communities that would have offered great 
opportunity for them--they didn't take it because they were not going 
to have health insurance.

When I listen to people, I think about the lady in Cumberland who 
works full time, but her employer does not provide health insurance and 
she is terrified that she is one sickness away from a catastrophic 
situation, or from Karen, in Kensington, whose father had to quit work 
because he had Crohn's disease. He was making payments on his 
insurance. He was two payments short, and they canceled his insurance. 
It took him 6 months to try to get it back. He lost his coverage, and 
he was only 59 years old when he passed away.

Then there were the breast cancer survivors, the wonderful women and 
the men they love who are out there raising money for the cure. But 
even in a prosperous community such as Annapolis, a woman told me how 
she lost her job and with it her family's health insurance, and when 
her insurance ran out, she was terrified she would lose her cancer 
treatment.

Walking around the diners--and I love diners. I see myself as a diner 
Democrat. In every diner it is usually multigenerational people. What 
do they tell me? Barb, don't forget the old people. Senator Barb, no 
matter what, keep Medicare stable. If you are 50 years old, you are 
terrified your parents can lose their Medicare and it is going to fall 
on you. The sandwiches they are eating are eaten by the sandwich 
generation, worried about the oldtimers' health care, worried about 
keeping their own, and then trying to figure out how they were going to 
pay for college. Medicare has multigenerational implications.

This is why in this bill I am so proud of the fact that we are going 
to stabilize Medicare for another 10 years and do very important 
reforms in Medicare.

I am also pleased to respond to the people who said no matter what, 
make health care available and affordable. For every parent who has 
ever worried about covering a child with a chronic illness, whether 
autism or cerebral palsy or juvenile diabetes, they will always be able 
to get health insurance. The small business owner, such as my own 
father who once had a grocery store or my grandmother who had the best 
bakery shop, worried about how they were going to provide individual


health care for themselves--this generation will not have to worry 
about that.

This bill is an exceptional one. We save Medicare, expand its 
solvency for another nearly a decade. We end the punitive practices of 
insurance companies. We expand uniform access, and we pay for it with 
an emphasis on wellness and quality, saying goodbye to quantity 
medicine and emphasizing quality medicine; goodbye to volume medicine 
and getting value for our dollar.

For our seniors, one of the most important things we will do is close 
that doughnut hole. The doughnut hole has been hard to swallow ever 
since this bill was passed. We are going to provide a $250 rebate for 
seniors who hit the gap in the prescription drug benefit and also offer 
a better discount on prescription drugs.

I am also very excited and honored because of the role I played in 
making sure we ended the punitive practices of insurance companies 
toward women. For too long, in too many ways, they treated simply being 
a woman as a preexisting condition. First of all, they charged us 30 
percent to 40 percent more just simply to be able to get insurance. 
Then they would have the punitive practices of denying us health 
insurance for a preexisting condition. In eight States, domestic 
violence was viewed as a preexisting condition. You talk about being 
abused--you were abused by your husband, then you were abused by your 
insurance company. We are not going to be battered anymore by these 
companies. We ended that in this bill.

Then there was the hearing that shocked and chilled me, a hearing on 
gender discrimination in insurance. A woman told a compelling story, 
Peggy from Colorado, that after she had a C-section and a premature 
baby, the costs were high. She lost her health insurance and when she 
went to apply they told her in order to get health insurance, because 
she had a premature baby, because she had a C-section, they would not 
give her health insurance unless she was sterilized.

I couldn't believe it. That is what fascist countries do. That is 
what authoritarian regimes do. It was not the Taliban in Afghanistan, 
it was an insurance company in Colorado. We took up that fight and 
ended those abusive practices in this bill. Never again will a woman be 
able to be denied health insurance because of any preexisting 
condition. We ended gender discrimination in charging women more.

But as the debate went forward, they wanted to take the mammograms 
away from us and they didn't want to put mammogram and preventive 
services for women in the bill. They said it costs too much money.

I didn't want to hear that. I asked the women to suit up and come to 
the floor and we offered an amendment. The good men of the Senate also 
joined us. Many remember we wore pink that day. Today we are in the 
pink as well. We offered our amendment to ensure preventive services 
for women so that if your doctor says you need a mammogram, you are 
going to get one. If you need screening for cervical cancer or a Pap 
smear, you are going to get one and you are not going to have to pay a 
copay and a deductible. But like the old song ''Bread and Roses,'' we 
fight not only for women, but we fight for men too. Because for us it 
is not gender, it is about the agenda, and the biggest agenda is to 
make sure we provide health care to as many Americans as we can in the 
most affordable way, with value, quality, and prevention as their 
underpinnings.

We were able to make significant changes in this bill. But 
affordability is an issue. I believe we dealt with that by emphasizing 
quality. At Senator Kennedy's request, I led the quality task force. 
Because of proven ways that we are going to be able to offer in these 
initiatives, we are going to be able to increase the affordability of 
this bill to make people healthier. We want to prevent disease and 
manage chronic disease. By the emphasis on the management of chronic 
disease, we are going to save lives and save money.

First of all, we are getting more value for the dollar. Yes, we will 
be looking at comparative effectiveness, so when you go for a treatment 
or you buy a drug, you know we are getting value for the dollar.

The other is, we are going to emphasize the reduction of medical 
errors and also medical infections in hospitals by introducing quality 
initiatives that reward hospitals for being able to do that. But I also 
listen to the providers. I represent iconic international institutions 
such as Johns Hopkins medical institution and the University of 
Maryland.

I listen to my primary care doctors as well. They said: Senator Barb, 
please reduce the hassle factor; too much paperwork and not enough time 
to be with patients; too many contradictory rules from the insurance 
companies and not enough of a clear path on what we can do to be able 
to help people.

So we made sure we are going to save money by reducing the hassle 
factor by simplifying administrative costs, by emphasizing medical 
health information technology. We are going to promote evidence-based 
medicine through this comparative effectiveness research. We are going 
to also reward, following the recommendations of the Finance Committee, 
the encouragement of medical homes in order to be able to manage 
chronic disease.

These are the many reforms that are in this bill and that I am very 
proud of. I am also, as the daughter of a small business owner, excited 
about how we are going to be able to help small business be able to 
provide health care to their employees. The fact that we are going to 
offer tax breaks for small business and be able to have health 
exchanges where they can buy those health care policies at a better 
cost is indeed important.

So, again, the other party might be Mars, but I am glad my feet were 
planted in planet Earth, by listening to the people I represent, by 
listening to their concerns and then listening to the excellent ideas 
that came from both the people themselves and, I must say, the people 
who are the providers who could help us lead the way.

I am going to vote for this bill. I know there is much to reform in 
it in the years ahead. But this is more than a beginning, this is a 
leap into the future. It is a leap we can take with confidence that 
when this bill passes with reconciliation, we will have won a major 
historic advance for the American people.

Our job is about creating opportunity and opportunity to have health 
care is one of the greatest benefits we can provide.

I yield the floor.