---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `a74a4c0f9631d6bd5cbc6a1ef0284122`
`Mr. SANDERS — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me begin by commending my friend from 
Oklahoma, who I think makes some very important points. There is no 
question that there is an enormous amount of waste and fraud and abuse 
in this Government. There is no question, in my mind, that Congress has 
not been vigilant enough in rooting out that waste and fraud to the 
tune of billions and billions of dollars.

I would simply say that while it is absolutely appropriate to condemn 
the Congress, it is also important to note that we have an 
administration in this city, in Washington, DC, and the function of an 
administration is to administer. That means that when there is waste 
and fraud, you have an administration that should also be on top of 
that situation. And I think of the many failings of the Bush 
administration, which, in my view, will go down in history as one of 
the worst in our country's history--clearly their overall incompetence 
will be one of those areas people will focus on.

The second point I would make--and I see my friend from Oklahoma has 
left--is that he is absolutely right that a $9.2 trillion national debt 
is unsustainable. But one of the areas I don't believe he mentioned in 
terms of driving up that national debt is the war in Iraq.

Now, we can have a great debate about the wisdom of that war. I voted 
against it when I was in the House. I think we should bring our troops 
home as soon as possible. But right now, we are not on the war, we are 
on the budget. And the question regarding the budget is, For all those 
people who support the war, why don't you pay for the war now rather 
than forcing our kids and grandchildren to pay to the tune of $150 
billion a year? And some say the cost of this war eventually will run 
into the trillions of dollars. So all of those people who talk about 
fiscal irresponsibility refuse not to pay for the war.

I was reading a book about Dwight David Eisenhower, and in the book 
it points out that during the Korean war, Truman imposed a surtax on 
people's personal income tax and an excess-profits tax in order to pay 
for the war. I don't see the advocates of the war in Iraq coming 
forward and saying: We don't want to leave that burden of $150 billion 
a year to our kids and grandchildren, so we are going to come up and 
pay for it now. I didn't hear my friend from Oklahoma raise that issue.

I hear other people coming to the floor and they say: Well, we have 
this tremendous national debt, and they have pictures of the kids, and 
yet they propose to completely eliminate the estate tax, which over the 
course of 20 years will cause us a loss of $1 trillion. How is that 
going to be paid for? Oh, I guess we don't have to pay for it. I guess 
we can just pass that on to the kids. So I think that some of our 
friends who talk about fiscal responsibility might, in fact, want to 
pay for this war today, not pass it on to future generations. And when 
they are talking about giving huge tax breaks to the wealthiest people 
in this country, let them understand that is all they are doing, is 
driving up the national debt so that our kids and grandchildren will be 
forced to pay for that.

We are in the midst of a debate about the budget, and as you know a 
budget is a lot more than just numbers; it reflects the values and the 
priorities of our Nation. And when we look at what is going on in this 
country, as important as a $9.2 trillion national debt is, it is not 
the only issue of importance. What is also important is to understand 
today what is going on in terms of the needs and the lives of middle-
class and working people.

One of the realities we do not talk about very much today is that 
poverty in America is increasing. In fact, since President Bush has 
been in office, almost 5 million more Americans have joined the ranks 
of the poor. That is part of the Bush economy. We now have almost 36.5 
million Americans who are living in poverty. Many of these people are 
working, and they are working 40 or 50 hours a week, but they are 
making 8 bucks an hour, they are making 7 bucks an hour, and they are 
just not making enough money in order to lift themselves out of 
poverty. In fact, the United States of America today has the highest 
rate of poverty of any major nation on Earth, and that is an issue 
which we should address here in the Senate.

When we are talking about Americans living in poverty, we are not, of 
course, just talking about adults. Tragically, we are also talking 
about children. I know our President and many others talk about family 
values. Well, this is not a family value. Under President Bush's 
administration, since he has been in office, 1.2 million more children 
are now living in poverty, and we have almost 13 million kids in this 
country who live in poverty. That is not a family value. That is a 
national disgrace. As a matter of fact, the United States has the 
dubious distinction of having the highest childhood poverty rate in the 
industrialized world.



I hear some of my friends coming to the floor to compare this or that 
aspect of American society or our tax policy with Europe and other 
countries. Well, I think it is important that we look at this chart--
how we treat our children.

What this chart shows is that Finland, Norway, and Sweden all have 
childhood poverty rates of less than 5 percent. Switzerland, Belgium, 
Austria, France, Denmark, and Germany all have childhood poverty rates 
of less than 10 percent. The Netherlands has a childhood poverty rate 
of slightly more than 10 percent. But in the United States of America, 
the childhood poverty rate is 21.9 percent, or more than double that of 
France, Germany, Austria, or the Netherlands.

Now, why is that an important fact? It is important, obviously, that 
the children are vulnerable; that as adults, we are responsible for the 
children and we are failing those children. But it is also important to 
note that we have, as a nation, more people behind bars, incarcerated, 
than any other nation on Earth, including China. And if anyone thinks 
there is not a direct correlation between high poverty rates for kids 
and kids who mentally drop out of society, get involved in self-
destructive activity at young ages, and then end up in jail, you would 
be kidding yourself. And the issue here is whether we address this 
crisis of 21 percent of our kids living in poverty, whether we provide 
for those kids or, 15 or 18 or 20 years later, whether we lock them up 
at $50,000 a pop.

There have been recent discussions about the economy, whether we are 
in a recession or entering a recession. But the truth is, despite 
President Bush's assertions, this economy has been a disaster for 
middle-income and working families from day one. Since President Bush 
took office in 2001, median household income for working-aged Americans 
has declined by almost $2,500. That is what we call the collapse of the 
middle class. Over 8/1/2/ million Americans have lost their health 
insurance. That is what we call the disintegration of the health care 
system in America. Three million workers have lost their pensions. And 
the idea of a defined pension program is increasingly becoming ancient 
history. More and more workers are wondering what is going to happen to 
them when they retire, and the idea that there will really be a defined 
pension program for them when they retire, that is not something most 
workers, especially younger workers, believe.

The annual trade deficit since President Bush has been in office has 
more than doubled, and over 3 million good-paying manufacturing jobs 
have been lost. The price of gas at the pump and home heating oil has 
more than doubled, while ExxonMobil made $40 billion in profits last 
year--more than any company in the history of the world. That is $3.20 
for a gallon of gas, which working people in Vermont can't afford. 
Workers in Vermont often travel long-distance to and from work. And $40 
billion in profit for ExxonMobil. Home foreclosures, of course, are now 
the highest on record. Meanwhile, while the middle class is shrinking 
and poverty is increasing, the wealthiest people in this country have 
not had it so good since the 1920s.

My friend from Oklahoma mentioned that there are issues we just don't 
talk about, and he has a point. But one of the issues we don't talk 
about in this body--for pretty obvious reasons, to my mind, because who 
pays for the campaigns around here--is the growing disparity, the 
outrageous disparity of income and wealth in this country.

What this chart shows is that the wealthiest 1 percent of the 
population now owns 34 percent of the Nation's wealth, while the bottom 
90 percent owns only 29 percent of our wealth. That is here.

So what you see is the richest 1 percent owns more wealth than the 
bottom 90 percent. Is that what America is supposed to be about? Is 
that the kind of society we want? There is a lot of discussion that 
takes place on the floor of the Senate, in the House, about the 
economy. But at the end of the day, when you look at the economy, what 
is important, most important, is not economic growth, not GDP, what 
really is most important is what is happening to the average person.

You can have all of the growth you want, and you can see ordinary 
working people experiencing a decline in their real wages. You can see 
a lot of wealth being created, but it does not mean a whole lot to 
ordinary people if most of that income and wealth is going to the 
people on top.

The bottom line is that in the economy there are winners and losers. 
It is very clear that in the economy today, the middle class is losing. 
Lower income people are being decimated while the upper income people 
have never had it so good.

I know my friends in the Senate on both sides of the aisle--I speak 
as an Independent--hesitate to talk about that issue. But it is 
imperative that we do talk about it. Let me go to another chart.

This chart talks about the economy in terms of how different groups 
are doing. This chart shows that the wealthiest 1 percent saw its total 
income rise by $180,000 in 2005 or more than what the average middle-
class family makes in 3 years. This is the rise in income, not what 
they make; this is just their increase.

So the wealthiest 1 percent are doing phenomenally well. That is on 
average. That is a pretty good year, on average, seeing an increase of 
$180,000 in the year 2005. This is according to the Congressional 
Budget Office.

Meanwhile, the average middle-class family received a $400 increase. 
That is that small little box down here, an increase in annual income 
in 2005.

CBO also found that the total share of aftertax income going to the 
top 1 percent hit the highest level on record, while the middle-class 
and working families received the smallest share of aftertax incomes on 
record.

So when people understand in their gut that what is happening is the 
middle class is shrinking and the rich are getting richer, well, that 
is what it is about. That is the fact. That is precisely what is 
happening in America.

In addition, according to Forbes magazine, the collective net worth 
of the wealthiest 400 Americans--400 Americans, that is not a lot of 
people--increased by $290 billion last year, increased by $290 billion 
to a total of $1.5 trillion. Not only have the wealthiest 400 families, 
the richest 400, seen an increase in their wealth, their combined 
income has more than doubled from 2002 to 2005.

At the same time, the average income tax paid by the wealthiest 400 
Americans has fallen from 30 percent to 18 percent. That is not Bernie 
Sanders, that is according to the Wall Street Journal. The reason the 
average income tax for the wealthiest people who are making 
astronomical sums of money, why that has been cut in half, is mainly 
due to Bush's tax cuts, according to the Wall Street Journal.

The middle class is shrinking, poverty is increasing, and the 
wealthiest people have not had it so good since the 1920s. That is an 
overview of the state of our economy.

Now, why do I raise these issues? I raise these issues because if we 
truly do not understand what is going on around our country in the 
lives of ordinary people, people who cannot afford to fill up their gas 
tank, cannot afford a college education for their kids, cannot afford 
childcare, cannot afford to take care of their parents, if we do not 
understand that reality, it is pretty hard for this body to make good 
public policy.

The question then is, what do we do? What do we do? Well, President 
Bush gave us his answer in his budget. What President Bush, in his 
budget, said is, at a time when the richest people in America are 
becoming richer, what should we do? Well, let's give them even more tax 
breaks. That makes a lot of sense to the richest people in America and 
George W. Bush.

And what did he say to the poorest people in America? Well, poverty 
is increasing. There is a level of desperation going on in this country 
that we have not seen in many years. So at a time when poverty is 
increasing, what do we do? Well, according to George W. Bush, you cut 
back on the aid and programs that help low-income and middle-income 
people. That is precisely what Bush's budget was about; one of the more 
absurd documents that I have ever seen in my life.

Fortunately, that budget has been placed where it belongs; that is, 
in the garbage can. We are now debating a much different budget, a 
budget that is far better, the budget that we have before us. I am 
proud to be a member of


the Budget Committee, working with Chairman Conrad, on a far better 
budget than the President's budget.

But, in my view, we can make improvements on it. We can do better 
than the budget we are now debating. To that regard, I will be 
introducing an amendment, and I want to thank the Presiding Officer for 
being one of the cosponsors of that amendment.

Let me very briefly talk about that. It seems to me, as we look at 
some of the trends that we should be addressing in this budget, at 
least three come to mind. No. 1 is the middle class is declining, No. 2 
is our children are suffering, and No. 3 is that we have, among other 
things, a major infra-structural crisis in this country.

It is my view that we need a budget which will address some of those 
issues. I am very proud I will soon be introducing an amendment which 
is being cosponsored by Senators Clinton, Durbin, Kennedy, Harkin, 
Schumer, Mikulski, and Brown.

This amendment is a pretty simple one. It puts the needs of our 
children, it puts the needs of our working families and people with 
disabilities and senior citizens ahead of the wealthy few.

At a time when our Presidential candidates in both parties are 
talking about change, change, and change, at a time when the American 
people overwhelming understand that it is imperative that we move this 
country in a different direction, this amendment can begin the process 
of change right here in the Senate, and, in fact, change our national 
priorities.

The choice the Senate will have in terms of this amendment is a 
pretty simple one: Do we continue to give tax breaks to the very 
wealthiest people in this country, people who have never had it so 
good, or do we invest in our children, our working families, and those 
people who are in need?


What this would do is restore the top income tax bracket to 39.6 
percent for households earning more than $1 million per year. Those are 
the only people who would be affected. And we would use that revenue to 
begin to address some of the most urgent, unmet needs of our children. 
We would address the issue of job creation; we would address the issue 
of deficit reduction.

Now, 99.7 percent of Americans would not be impacted by this tax 
change, only the top three-tenths of 1 percent would see their income 
tax rates go back to where they were during the Clinton administration 
when few would deny that the economy was far stronger than it currently 
is.

According to the Joint Tax Committee, restoring the top income tax 
brackets for people making more than $1 million to what it was in 2000 
would increase revenue by about $32.5 billion over the next 3 years, 
including $10.8 billion in 2009 alone.

So here is the choice. We can continue over a 3-year period to give 
$32.5 billion in tax breaks to the top three-tenths of 1 percent, 
people who economically are doing phenomenally well today, or we can 
invest it in the people in our country and use some of that for deficit 
reduction.

What could we do with $32.5 billion? Well, let me tell you. We could, 
as our amendment does, expend $10 billion for the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act; that is, special education.

Over 30 years ago, the Federal Government made a promise that it 
would fund 40 percent of the cost of special education. Unfortunately, 
today we only spend about 17 percent of the cost of special ed. I know 
in Vermont--I do not know about Ohio, but I can tell you that in 
Vermont, in school district after school district, property taxes are 
going up. And one of the reasons is the very high cost of special ed. 
You are seeing more and more kids coming into the system who have 
special ed needs.

Educating those kids is very expensive. The Federal Government has 
not kept its promise in adequately funding special ed. So it is the 
local property tax payers who have to pick up the cost. By putting $10 
billion more into special ed, not only can we help people stabilize 
their property taxes, but we can pay more attention to the kids with 
special ed needs. And both of those goals, to my mind, are goals that 
we should strive for.

This amendment would also increase Head Start funding by $5 billion 
over the next 3 years. After adjusting for inflation, Head Start has 
been cut by over 11 percent compared to fiscal year 2002. Meanwhile, 
less than half of all eligible children are enrolled in Head Start, and 
only about 3 percent of eligible children are enrolled in Early Head 
Start. This amendment would begin to correct this situation.

What Head Start is about is what its title indicates. What we have 
known for a very long time is the most important intellectual and 
emotional years of a human being's life are their earliest years. If 
kids are not exposed to books and they are not exposed to ideas and 
they are not learning how to socialize and they do not have good 
emotional development, those kids are going to go off in a bad 
direction. And what Head Start was about, and what Head Start has been 
successful about, is giving kids the opportunity so that when they get 
into kindergarten and first grade, those kids will then be in a 
position in which they can learn effectively and can socialize well 
with their peers.

Head Start works. The problem right now is that it is inadequately 
funded, and millions of families simply cannot get into this very good 
program.

In addition to funding special education and Head Start, my amendment 
would also provide a $4 billion increase for the childcare development 
block grant. One of the issues that we very rarely discuss in the 
Senate but that every working family with young children knows is a 
major crisis in America is the lack of availability of childcare, 
affordable, quality childcare.

How many millions of kids are now being minded by untrained people 
and being stuck in front of a television set for 8 hours a day? And 
what an unfortunate circumstance that is for our little kids, 
especially at a time when most women work and are entitled to good 
quality childcare. This amendment would provide funding to help do 
that.

This amendment would also provide a $3.5 billion increase to the Food 
Stamp Program. Hunger in America--I know you know, Mr. President, 
because you and I are working on an issue to address this--is 
increasing. Food pantries are running out of food. That should not be 
taking place in this country. So what we do is add $3.5 billion more to 
the Food Stamp Program.

In my State of Vermont, it gets pretty cold. That is true in many 
other States. Meanwhile, the price of home heating oil is soaring. You 
have many people who are having a difficult time paying their heating 
bills. This amendment would increase the very successful Low-Income 
Home Energy Assistance Program, often called LIHEAP, by $4 billion.

The bottom line is nobody in America should go cold in the winter.

Furthermore, this amendment would provide $3 billion for school 
construction. There are kids who are going to schools that are 
outmoded. They are decrepit. They are not energy efficient. We can 
create a lot of good jobs. We can improve the quality of education by 
building modern schools and upgrading the schools that currently exist. 
We put $3 billion into that.

Finally, at a time of record-breaking deficits, this amendment would 
reduce the deficit by $3 billion.

I am happy to inform my colleagues that this amendment has been 
endorsed by over 50 groups, including the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, the National 
Education Association, Children's Defense Fund, the American Federation 
of Teachers, Easter Seals, the YWCA, the National Head Start 
Association, the SEIU, and the National Organization for Women.

Let me quote from a letter I received from all of these groups:




 The economic downturn is creating crisis for parents who 


 work hard but struggle to afford nutritious meals as food 


 prices escalate; to pay for energy for their homes and fuel 


 for their cars; to pay for child care so that they can work; 


 and to assure that their young children receive the building 


 blocks of a solid education to prepare them for the future. 


 Programs that assist in meeting these needs have been cut 


 significantly in recent years, while tax breaks for 


 millionaires have soared. Your amendment addresses these 


 needs. . . .We are urging the Senate to adopt your fiscally 


 responsible amendment to address the pressing needs of 


 working families while restoring greater progressivity to the 


 tax system.


The choice is clear. We can provide $32.5 billion in tax breaks to 
millionaires and billionaires who don't need it or we can begin to meet 
the unmet needs of our children. That is what this


amendment is about. I look forward to the support of my colleagues, not 
just in passing this amendment but in beginning the process of moving 
this great country in a very different direction.

I yield the floor.
