# DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL
## `a75976e4ab62c2031bfd0355376dd6d1`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 18 December 2010`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, let me thank Senator Lieberman for his 
authorship of and advocacy for repeal of don't ask, don't tell. I wish 
to use my time to speak about pieces of legislation.

Don't ask, don't tell has been with us now for 17 years. I just 
pulled a speech I made on the floor 17 years ago. The DREAM Act has 
been with us for 10 years. So neither of these are surprise bills. Both 
of these affect large numbers of people in major ways. For many, they 
are their life. For those who love the military, who see no life 
outside of the military, don't ask, don't tell is their life. The same 
for students, the DREAM Act becomes their life.

Let me begin with don't ask, don't tell. Seventeen years ago, Senator 
Boxer introduced an amendment. I spoke to that amendment. We lost by a 
vote of 33 to 63. Only one-third of the Senate voted to repeal don't 
ask, don't tell in what was a benign amendment, essentially a consent 
resolution, but it lost. It lost despite the testimony of legions of 
military.

The time has gone by, 17 long years. Many of us believe the policy is 
unconstitutional. We believe it does more harm than good. And 17 years 
later, I am only more certain that is the case. The criteria for 
serving in the U.S. Armed Forces should be courage, competence, and a 
willingness to serve. No one should be turned away because of who they 
are--not because of their race, their sex, or their sexual orientation. 
Since 1993, however, don't ask, don't tell has required gay and lesbian 
Americans to make a choice. You can serve the country you love, but 
only if you lie about who you are.

This has forced honorable American soldiers to conceal their true 
selves from their family, their friends, their fellow servicemembers, 
and their military superiors. It has deprived the U.S. military of 
talent and badly needed special skills.

Let me discuss one person. SGT Lacye Presley served two tours of duty 
in Iraq as an Army medic. The Army awarded her a Bronze Star for her 
heroic action in keeping several critically wounded civilians alive 
after a car bomb exploded in their midst. Another Army sergeant who 
worked with her around the same time said this about Sergeant Presley:




 I would serve with Sergeant Presley any day, no doubt about 


 it. She's one of the best medics that I've ever seen in my 18 


 years of service.


Sergeant Presley was discharged after someone reported her sexual 
orientation to a senior commander. This is one for Sergeant Presley.

Let me discuss some other affected military personnel. Former PO2 
Stephen Benjamin was an Arabic linguist for the Navy. He started his 
service in 2003, graduated in the top ten percent of his class from the 
Defense Language Institute, and spent 2 years translating for the Navy. 
In 2007, he was prepared to deploy to Iraq but was turned away and 
discharged because it was discovered that he was gay.

Army SGT Darren Manzella served two tours of duty providing medical 
services in Iraq. He earned three promotions over 6 years and was 
awarded the Combat Medical Bridge for leading over 100 patrols to treat 
the wounded and evacuate casualties. But after he confided in a 
supervisor about his sexuality, he was threatened with discharge, his 
sexuality was made public, and he was later discharged under don't ask, 
don't tell.

PVT Randy Miller of Stockton, CA, was a member of an elite Army 
paratroop division with a long family history of military service. He 
spent 2 years training in preparation for deployment and then served a 
tour of duty in Iraq beginning in the winter of 2005. But when he 
returned to the United States to be treated for a knee injury, someone 
reported that he was gay and he was discharged from the Army.

Finally, there is LTC Victor Fehrenbach, a 19-year veteran of the Air 
Force. He has flown 88 combat missions in Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo, 
and the former Yugoslavia. He received nine Air Medals and five 
Commendation Medals. When our country was attacked on September 11, 
2001, he was hand-selected to fly patrols over Washington, DC, as part 
of the initial alert crew.

But Colonel Fehrenbach has been recommended for honorable discharge 
because his sexual orientation was made public in 2008.

These are only five stories. There are at least 13,500 more. All of 
these men and women volunteered to defend the country they love, only 
to be discharged because of who they happen to love.

Now I wish to speak about the DREAM Act. I thank those who have 
supported this, brought it forward--Senator Hatch, Senator Durbin, as 
well as Senator Lieberman and Senator Collins on repealing don't ask, 
don't tell. I have supported the DREAM Act since it was first 
introduced. Each year the support has grown.

Each year approximately 65,000 undocumented young people graduate 
from America's high schools. Most of these did not make a choice to 
come to the United States. Many were brought here by their parents, 
some at 6 months old, 6 years, 12 years--whatever it is. Many of these 
young people grew up in the United States. They have little or no 
memory or resources in the country from which they came. They are hard-
working young people, dedicated to their education or serving in the 
Nation's military. They have stayed out of trouble. Some are 
valedictorians--I happen to know one--and honor roll students. Some are 
community leaders and have an unwavering commitment to serving the 
United States.

Mr. President, I would like to tell you about a few college students 
in California, who would benefit from the DREAM Act.

Ana was born in Mexico. She was brought to the United States when she 
was 7 years old. She says one of her earliest memories is her mother 
waking her up early in the morning to go to school in the United 
States. She quickly learned English and excelled in school. She didn't 
find out that she was undocumented until she was 13 years old and 
overheard someone talking about ''illegal aliens.'' When she asked her 
father what it meant, he told her that she should never ask about that 
word again. Like most kids, she didn't know what it meant to be 
undocumented.

Then, when she was ready to apply for college, her guidance counselor 
asked for her social security number. This is when the meaning of 
''undocumented'' hit home. She graduated from high school with honors 
and is currently a sophomore at DeAnza College in California. She is 
active in her student government and is studying political science.

Ivan was brought to the United States when he was just 10 months old. 
His family settled in San Bernardino, CA, where Ivan excelled in 
school. He found out about his undocumented status in the 7th grade 
when he could not accept an award he earned at a science fair because 
he didn't have a Social Security number.

Ivan is a Presidential scholar who graduated within the top 1 percent 
of high school graduates in San Bernardino County. He is currently a 
senior at California State University and is a pre-med biology major. 
He hopes to become a doctor in the Army someday and says that it would 
be an honor to provide care to the brave men and women risking their 
lives for this country.

Blanca came to the United States in 1989, when she was 6 years old. 
Her family left Mexico after a devastating earthquake. Blanca's family 
settled in the San Francisco area, where she attended elementary school 
and graduated from high school. Although Blanca knew that she was 
undocumented, her family never spoke about it.



Despite being undocumented, Blanca was determined to get the best 
education she could. She attended Contra Costa Community College and 
the University of California Davis. She graduated from college in 2008 
and hopes to become a lawyer someday so that she can work to prevent 
sex trafficking.

Justino was brought to the United States 10 years ago by his mother, 
along with his two siblings, to escape his abusive father. He attended 
school and graduated within the top 5 percent of his class. He attends 
Mount San Antonio College and is a student leader, actively engaged in 
community service in the Latino community.

Justino says that he has a strong love for his community and has been 
doing everything he can to improve it just like his role models, Martin 
Luther King, Jr., and Gandhi.

Because of their undocumented status, these young people are 
ineligible to serve in the military. They face tremendous obstacles to 
attending college. For many, English is actually their first language, 
and they are just like every other American student. Now reaching 
adulthood, these young people are left with a dead end. They can't use 
their educations to contribute to their communities. They can't serve 
the country they call home by volunteering for military service. In 
other words, they are dumbed down by their status. They are relegated 
to the shadows by their status. And along comes the DREAM Act. That 
provides an opportunity for these young people to prove themselves. It 
provides the incentive to prove themselves.

It would permit students to become permanent residents if they came 
here as children, are long-term U.S. residents, have good moral 
character, attend college, or enlist in the military for 2 years. So 
already they have to prove themselves. The legislation requires 
students to wait 10 years before becoming lawful permanent residents 
and undergo background and security checks and pay any back taxes. This 
is a multistep process. It is not a free pass.

Additionally, according to CBO, the DREAM Act would actually increase 
Federal revenues by $2.3 billion over the 10 years and increase net 
direct spending by $912 million between 2011 and 2012.

In addition, the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee 
on Taxation indicate that enacting the bill would reduce deficits by 
about $2.2 billion over 10 years.

DREAM is a winner. Repealing Don't ask, don't tell is what we should 
do. I hope there are ''aye'' votes sufficient to pass both of these 
today.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.