# None
## `a75fd598b5bd9a4cf222248e5302b2e4`
`Mr. WELCH of Vermont â€” 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. WELCH of Vermont. Madam Speaker, I rise to report on an effort in 
Vermont that honors the tradition of Vermonters speaking out on issues 
of conscience. Vermonters take public service, political integrity and 
citizen involvement extremely seriously. This is a tradition that dates 
back to our earliest days when Vermont became the very first State to 
ban slavery.

But with rising alarm, Vermont has watched abuse of power and a 
disregard for checks and balances in Washington that has occurred over 
the past 6 years.



Vermonters have such extraordinary concern, particularly with the 
prosecution of this war in Iraq, that many are now actually calling for 
the President and the Vice President to be impeached.

Impeachment is a dramatic position, but it reflects the collective 
judgment of many in Vermont that we are in extreme circumstances. Madam 
Speaker, I do not believe that impeachment is the answer, but I endorse 
the indictment of the policies of the current administration.

What this Nation has experienced over the past 6 years has been 
staggering: a war in its fifth year that was justified based on false 
intelligence; the politicization of our Nation's top


law enforcement agency; the cavalier disregard for civil liberties and 
constitutional protections; no-bid war contracts to well-connected 
friends; the use of signing statements to disregard the law; and the 
denial of habeas corpus, a basic right, for those in U.S. custody.

The list could go on. These and other transgressions have caused some 
Vermonters to rise up and promote the use of impeachment to restore 
accountability and curb the abuse of power. This impeachment movement 
in Vermont started last year in the small town of Newfane, population 
1,700, by Dan DeWalt, a selectman on the town board.

After voting for the town clerk, the tax collector and voting whether 
to fund a village sidewalk project and the local school, the town then 
voted on a resolution to send a message to Congress to initiate 
impeachment proceedings. This initiative then spread from one small 
southern Vermont town to 40 towns across the State.

My own hometown of Hartland joined this call, and I've spoken with 
many of my neighbors, farmer, teachers, doctors and store owners, about 
their vote, and what they share is an outrage about the conduct of this 
administration and the prosecution of this terrible war.

Even last month, the Vermont General Assembly took up the issue. On 
April 20, the Vermont State Senate voted 16-9 in favor of Congress 
launching impeachment investigations, and while the Vermont House of 
Representatives defeated the resolution, it still received 60 
supportive votes from Vermont legislators. And nearly 400 Vermonters 
representing 102 of Vermont's 251 towns came to the State House that 
day to voice their views. And this past Saturday, I held a town meeting 
in the town of Hartford, Vermont, and heard from 250 Vermonters 
advocating for this extraordinary measure.

I applaud these citizen activists who have acted in the Vermont 
tradition of speaking out and taking a principled stand to protect our 
democracy. They raise valid concerns about the actions of this 
administration and, if those actions are allowed to go unchecked, the 
threat to democracy that we face. Their concerns are well-founded.

But let me be clear, opinion is divided in Vermont about whether 
impeachment is the right remedy and whether it's the right tactic, but 
what motivated this effort is a commonly shared view that this 
administration has grossly abused its power and pursued terribly 
misguided policies.

Madam Speaker, while I disagree with the tactic of impeachment, I 
completely share the goal of restoring accountability and a new 
direction to our government.

Our oversight investigations in Congress have exposed egregiously 
substandard care at Walter Reed where we have heard about soldiers 
still recovering from brain surgery forced to wander the grounds to 
find the outpatient care they were promised.

Congressional oversight has documented unacceptable accounts of 
political interference by the administration over sound global warming 
science, with political appointees editing scientific reports.

And our probes have uncovered waste and fraud and abuse associated 
with the war in Iraq to an unimaginable scale, $12 billion of $100 
bills flown from the United States to Iraq and then distributed from 
the back of pickup trucks.

And through our oversight and subpoenas, we are vigorously seeking to 
expose and investigate the peddling of faulty intelligence that the 
administration presented to justify their case for war.

And through our oversight and subpoenas, we are vigorously seeking to 
expose and investigate the peddling of faulty intelligence the 
Administration presented in their case for war.

We must demand to know whether the Administration's active 
dissemination of bad intelligence was premeditated with the intention 
of deceiving the American people, or was it reckless and cavalier, done 
to justify a decision to go to war that had already been made?

At every corner, step by step, Congress is methodically peeling back 
the layers of deception and deceit, holding this Administration 
accountable. We must get the facts and follow the facts. And that is 
exactly what is being done.

Madam Speaker, this pursuit of impeachment has consequences to real 
lives and real people. I measure every decision I make here in Congress 
based on whether it will hasten or delay an end to this war. Nothing 
illustrates this urgency more than a phone call I received before a 
recent trip to Iraq. The call was from a mother in the town of 
Brattleboro who lost her son in this terrible war. She so desired 
closure over her son's death, that she asked to accompany me to Iraq so 
she could see where her son had died. It was a stark reminder that 
there is no greater challenge we face than ending this war.

I also submit for the record a letter that was read at the Hartland 
town meeting from Lisa Johnson of Essex Jct. about the death in Iraq of 
her son Captain Pierre Piche.

I am proud of the Vermonters pushing for facts, prodding for 
accountability, and demanding oversight.

As I travel around the State, meeting with Vermonters, I also hear a 
sense of optimism: it is the optimism that comes from Congress 
restoring the checks and balances that had for too long been lost and 
an optimism from seeing a Congress finally getting down to making 
progress with new priorities and a new direction for this country.














Senate Resolution 16




 Whereas, President George W. Bush and Vice President 


 Richard Cheney have exercised the duties of their respective 


 offices with respect to both domestic and foreign affairs in 


 ways that raise serious questions of constitutionality, 


 statutory legality, and abuse of the public trust, and



 Whereas, the President's conduct in his role as Commander 


 in Chief in leading our nation into the military conflict in 


 Iraq, and the Vice President's continual advocacy for 


 American troops remaining in Iraq, have cost the United 


 States much of the good will that was extended to our country 


 in the wake of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on 


 the United States, and



 Whereas, the President's and the Vice President's domestic 


 leadership on issues relating to individual privacy and 


 personal liberty under law has raised constitutional issues 


 of the greatest concern to the nation's citizenry, now 


 therefore be it



 Resolved by the Senate:



 That the Senate of the State of Vermont urges Vermont's 


 Representative in the United States House of Representatives 


 to introduce, and Vermont's United States Senators to 


 support, a resolution requiring the United States House 


 Judiciary Committee to initiate impeachment proceedings 


 against the President and the Vice President of the United 


 States, and be it further



 Resolved: That the Secretary of the Senate be directed to 


 send a copy of this resolution to United States 


 Representative Peter Welch, United States Senator Patrick J. 


 Leahy and United States Senator Bernard Sanders.