---
---

# VETERANS EDUCATION TUITION SUPPORT ACT OF 2007
## `a7666f294ae8c6dd491a7aef155b1c6b`
`Mrs. DAVIS of California — 29 June 2007`

---


Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce 
the Veterans Education Tuition Support Act of 2007 or the VETS Act to 
address some of the difficulties our military personnel when they are 
activated while attending college.

Thousands of military reservists have been activated to fight in Iraq 
and Afghanistan directly from their college campuses. Unfortunately, 
students who serve in the military face unique hardships when called 
upon to defend the United States.

Most colleges and universities refund tuition and fees to students 
when the activation occurs during the academic calendar. However, 
instances have occurred when a servicemember has not been reimbursed.

Servicemembers have also been known to face difficulties 
reregistering for classes after


returning home after activation. In addition, activated military 
personnel have received collection notices for student loans while 
serving in combat zones.

The goal of the VETS Act is to provide our servicemembers with 
certain rights when they must delay their educational pursuits to 
defend our country.

The legislation requires colleges and universities to refund tuition 
and fees for unearned credit, and in addition, guarantee our 
servicemembers a place when they return home.

The bill would also amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to 
treat student loan debt the same way it treats other forms of debt by 
capping interest at 6 percent during deployments.

Finally, the legislation would give servicemembers 13 months to begin 
paying their student loans after an activation should they decide not 
to return to school immediately.

The deferment will give them time to readjust back to civilian life 
should they decide they need extra time to go back to school.

Senator Sherrod Brown has introduced the VETS Act in the U.S. Senate 
and I am proud to introduce companion legislation in the House of 
Representatives.

The VETS Act is centered on the recommendations made by the Iraq and 
Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) based on the experiences of the 
group's members.

Madam Speaker, I urge passage of this legislation to give rights and 
protections to the servicemembers activated while attending a college 
or university.
