---
---

# HONORING 139TH AIRLIFT WING
## `a771ea75a2fc9d521a8a086d4294d553`
`Mr. GRAVES — 2 March 2010`

---


Mr. GRAVES. Madam Speaker, last July I was humbled and honored to 
introduce House Resolution 699, expressing the appreciation of Congress 
for the service and sacrifice of the members of the 139th Airlift Wing, 
Missouri Air National Guard. Since World War II, the men and women of 
the 139th have been based at Rosecrans Memorial Airport in St. Joseph, 
Missouri, which is in my district.

First, I want to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McKeon for 
allowing this important resolution to come to the floor today. And 
further, I want to thank my colleagues who joined me in cosponsoring 
this resolution and helping move forward such an important tribute. I 
would also like to recognize the 139th Airlift Wing's commanders--at 
least those whom I have been able to work with--General Steven McCamy, 
Colonel Davenport, General Stephen Cotter, and, most recently, the new 
commander, Colonel Mike McEnulty. Colonel McEnulty has been a dynamic 
leader in working to continue and expand the role of the Missouri Air 
National Guard, and he is an invaluable resource to my office, our 
military, and, obviously, the St. Joseph community.

The 139th Airlift Wing, initially designated as the 180th Bombardment 
Squadron, has been serving our Nation proudly since 1946, which makes 
it one of the first federally recognized Air National Guard units in 
the Nation. They have deployed, and it has already been pointed out, 
they have deployed and supported the Korean War, Operation Desert 
Storm, military operations


alongside NATO forces as part of Operation Joint Forge in Europe, and 
Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. And the members of the 139th 
Airlift Wing have also assisted with humanitarian efforts in response 
to the great flood of 1993, Hurricane Katrina, severe storms that 
struck northwest Missouri in 2007, and most recently in response to the 
devastating earthquake in Haiti.

In 1984, the 139th Airlift Wing became home to the Advanced Airlift 
Tactics Training Center, which some have already pointed out today. The 
Advanced Airlift Tactics Training Center increases the warfighting 
effectiveness and the survivability of mobility forces in a combat 
environment and is utilized by our military and NATO forces from around 
the world. It is used by Reserve units and active duty units.

It's always interesting, whenever I have the opportunity to travel 
abroad, whether it's to Afghanistan or to Iraq, a lot of times Members 
of Congress would travel with C-17 crews or C-130 crews, and one of the 
things I always ask them is if they've been through the school at St. 
Joe, and 80 percent of the time they say, yes, they have. They've been 
to the Advanced Airlift Tactics Training Center, which has taught them 
survivability in those areas.

Lastly, I want to express my sincere gratitude to the nearly 2,500 
civilian and military personnel from northwest Missouri and northeast 
Kansas which serve selflessly in the 139th Airlift Wing. I commend 
their exemplary service and sacrifice and that of their families and 
that of all other members of the Armed Forces who have served, who are 
currently serving and are supporting the United States military 
contingency operations at home and abroad.

Madam Speaker, please join me in thanking the men and women of the 
139th Airlift Wing by supporting this important resolution.