---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a7845cc9288fc3c37d50af2a3ad80b07`
`Mr. VOINOVICH — 7 July 2009`

---


Mr. VOINOVICH. Madam. President, I thank Senator Durbin. I would like 
to acknowledge the cooperation we received from Senator Byrd and his 
staff. We are pleased Senator Byrd is out of the hospital and 
recuperating at home. I appreciate the fact that the Senator from 
Illinois has stepped in to pinch-hit for him this morning.

I think the Senator from Illinois has done an outstanding job of 
covering the details of the bill. I would like to concentrate on some 
of the highlights I think need to be underscored.

The bill recommends a total of $44.3 billion in appropriations to 
support programs and activities of the Department of Homeland Security. 
Of this amount, $42.7 billion is for discretionary spending. This is 
roughly $145 million less than the President's total discretionary 
request and is consistent with the subcommittee's spending allocation.

In addition, $1.4 billion is provided for Coast Guard retired pay--
the only mandatory funding in the bill--and $241.5 million is provided 
for Coast Guard overseas contingency operations, the same amount as 
requested by the President in the Department of Defense budget to be 
transferred to the Coast Guard and instead of being appropriated in the 
Defense Appropriations bill is being appropriated here.

The bill includes significant resources: for border security and 
enforcement of our immigration laws, for continued improvements in 
security at our Nation's airports and modes of surface transportation, 
for the Coast Guard's operations and Deepwater Program recapitalization 
efforts, for helping our citizens prepare for and recover from natural 
disasters, and for equipping and training our Nation's first 
responders.

As Senator Durbin has indicated, there is much in this bill to 
recommend. I am pleased the Secretary of the Department of Homeland 
Security understands we have done our best to fund her priorities. I 
will not list all the bill's funding recommendations, but I do want to 
note some.

Full funding is provided for border security, including the funds to 
support 20,063 border patrol agents; 21,12 customs and border 
protection officers; 33,400 detention beds; and $800 million for 
continued work on the virtual border fence and improved radio 
communications.

Starting in fiscal year 2005, significant increases have been 
provided for border security and immigration enforcement. This bill 
alone provides an increase of $880 million from the fiscal year 2009 
level, excluding emergency appropriations. Progress has been made with 
these investments.

Fewer people are illegally crossing our borders. This can be seen in 
the decrease in apprehensions of aliens along our borders--from 
1,198,075 in fiscal year 2005 to 723,825 in fiscal year 2008. In other 
words, we have made it more difficult for 474,250 illegal aliens to 
cross our borders. More fencing, roads, and personnel have allowed the 
border patrol to increase the number of miles over which it has 
effective control--from 241 miles in October 2005 to 625 miles in 
October 2008. Additional agents and detention beds have allowed U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to increase total removals of 
aliens--from 246,431 removals in fiscal year 2005 to 347,184 in fiscal 
year 2008. We are making progress but we still have a long way to go 
and at great expense.

In particular, I am pleased that the bill includes funds above the 
request to implement a biometric air exit capability. As the chief 
Senate sponsor of the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership 
Act of 2007, expanding and improving the Visa Waiver Program is one of 
my top priorities. The Visa Waiver Program has become an important 
national security tool because under that law, countries who 
participate in the program are required to share information on 
terrorists and criminals, report lost and stolen passports, and 
maintain high counterterrorism and document security practices. Since 
enactment of this law, 8 new countries have been accepted into the 
program and we are seeing improvements in the security practices of the 
27 countries that were already participating.

I have just returned from Lithuania and Latvia, where I was joined by 
several other Members of the Senate, including Senator Durbin. 
Lithuania and Latvia are two countries that were recently admitted into 
the visa waiver program. From a public diplomacy point of view, it has 
been a home run and has been well received by government officials and 
citizens alike.

I was up in Latvia. They pointed out to me that General Mullen was in 
Latvia, which should have been the biggest thing in the newspaper the 
next day, that he was there. The thing that blew him away was the fact 
that Latvia was approved for visa waiver status. It was so well 
received by the people of Latvia.

I must note however the two areas which continue to be of concern to 
me. One is the way this administration has budgeted for disasters. The 
President's fiscal year 2010 request for disaster relief is only $2 
billion. We know now from FEMA estimates that this is not enough to pay 
for the declared disasters already on the books. Based on current 
needs, an appropriation of $5.8 billion is required. I understand we 
cannot afford that within the discretionary spending limits for this 
bill, but I am hopeful this is addressed in future budgets.

This administration has worked hard to break the cycle of requesting 
emergency funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet no one has 
suggested fixing the way we budget for natural disasters. Last year 
alone, $11.757 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations were 
provided for disaster relief.

We cannot continue to ''kick the can down the road,'' relying on 
supplemental emergency appropriations to pay for known costs. Hurricane 
Katrina was a catastrophic event. Exceptions were made to regulations 
and policies to speed assistance to those struggling to recover from 
the enormity of the losses. But now these are becoming the standard 
rather than an ''exception to the rule,'' and the Federal taxpayers are 
picking up an ever increasing share of disaster recovery costs.

It is kind of interesting that at the time of Katrina I commented we 
were doing some things we ordinarily do not do in a FEMA environment 
and predicted that what we were doing at Katrina would become the role 
model for other disasters that have been experienced by States. The 
fact is, more and more States are now asking for


more and more FEMA money, saying: You did it in Katrina, why can't you 
do it in Texas? Why can't you do it wherever else we have a disaster? 
This has to change if we are going to handle Federal spending and do 
something about the deficit.

In addition, this bill provides almost $16 billion for border and 
immigration enforcement. That does not even include Coast Guard funding 
to protect our maritime borders. This is a 99.6-percent increase for 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement, and US-VISIT from fiscal year 2004 levels in the first 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act.

It is a significant increase. I think the citizens of our country 
should know that. They have been saying, for a long time, that we have 
not been doing the job in enforcing the security of our borders. I must 
tell them we are doing a much better job than ever before because we 
are allocating the resources to get the job done.

As we have increased the resources for border I have often wondered 
if there was another way we can secure our borders and deal with 11 or 
so million illegal immigrants other than by drastically increasing the 
resources for border and immigration enforcement. In fiscal year 2008, 
the Federal Government removed 347,184 individuals. In fiscal year 
2009, $5.6 billion is available to locate, detain, and remove 
unauthorized aliens. At the current pace of removals, it could require 
a further investment of $272 billion and 31 years to locate and remove 
the estimated 11 million unauthorized aliens in the United States. We 
must ask whether we are willing or can afford to make that kind of 
investment in enforcement rather than investing time in comprehensive 
immigration reform.

I appreciate very much the courtesies of the distinguished Senator 
from West Virginia and his staff and all members of the Appropriations 
Committee during our preparation of this bill. I believe it reflects 
our careful consideration of the President's budget request for the 
Department and our best effort to address the Department's resource 
requirements of the Department for the coming fiscal year. I look 
forward to considering amendments which Senators may suggest to the 
bill and to work throughout the appropriations process to ensure the 
Department has the funds to carry out its duties and responsibilities.

In closing, I would point out that the President's budget was 
received on May 7 and the Appropriations Committee is working 
diligently to move forward on the passage of our 12 appropriations 
bills. Two of the 12 fiscal year 2010 appropriations bills were 
reported by the committee on June 18--including this Homeland Security 
bill--and 2 more were reported on June 25. Another five of the 
appropriations bills are scheduled to be considered and reported by the 
committee this week--two this afternoon and another three on Thursday.

The House considered and adopted its version of the fiscal year 2010 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill on June 24. It is 
unfortunate that Senate consideration of this bill could not have 
occurred that same week, which would have put us in a position now to 
go to conference with the House.

Expeditious consideration of the fiscal year 2010 appropriations 
bills by the Senate is required if the Congress is to complete its work 
on all twelve of the appropriations bills by the October 1 start of the 
fiscal year. I have long been concerned about our failure to complete 
our appropriations work on time and the consequences of inaction, and I 
intend to speak at greater length on that during our consideration of 
this bill.

But, I do want to note here that a letter, dated March 24, 2009, to 
the majority leader, which included the signatures of all Republican 
Members, asked that the legislative schedule for this session:




 . . . allocate an appropriate amount of time for the Senate 


 to consider, vote and initiate the conference process on each 


 of the 12 appropriations bills independently through a 


 deliberative and transparent process on the Senate floor.


The letter goes on to point out that:




 For a variety of reasons, over the past several years, the 


 Senate has failed to debate, amend and pass each of the bills 


 separately prior to the end of the fiscal year. Far too often 


 this has resulted in the creation of omnibus appropriations 


 bills that have been brought to floor so late in the fiscal 


 year that Senators have been forced to either pass a 


 continuing resolution, shut down government or consider an 


 omnibus bill. These omnibus bills have not allowed for 


 adequate public review and have clouded what should otherwise 


 be a transparent process.


The letter further points out that President Obama, on March 11, 
2009, said that he expects future spending bills to be




 . . . debated and voted on in an orderly way and sent to 


 [his] desk without delay or obstruction so that we don't face 


 another massive, last minute omnibus bill like this one.


So let us proceed with this bill and debate and dispose of amendments 
Senators may wish to offer to it without unnecessary delay to allow us 
to complete our appropriations work this session. And, I would like to 
add that it is incumbent on our side of the aisle to make sure our 
amendments are relevant and germane.

I recommend this bill to my colleagues for their consideration and 
support, and I yield the floor.