# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a789033795a35ed0ac4f2e10ccf47d89`
`Mr. AKAKA — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. AKAKA. Madam President, I thank Chairman Levin and Ranking Member 
McCain for their leadership and working in a bipartisan fashion to 
unanimously pass the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 out of committee. I also thank my ranking member of the 
Subcommittee on Readiness, Senator Ensign, and the members of that 
committee for their work in bringing this about.

This bill exemplifies what can be achieved through the spirit of 
bipartisan cooperation to address a number of important defense 
priorities. As our distinguished chairman has already highlighted, this 
bill includes a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for all 
uniformed personnel, adds $4 billion to the President's budget for mine 
resistant vehicles to protect our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. It 
also authorizes fiscal year 2008 end strengths for the Army and Marine 
Corps, of 525,400 and 189,000 respectively, an increase of 13,000 for 
the Army and 9,000 for the Marine Corps, and it supports the 
transformation of our Armed Forces to meet the threats of the 21st 
century.

As chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee, both Ranking Member Ensign 
and I worked with our colleagues to continue the subcommittee's strong 
commitment to increasing the readiness of the Armed Forces. In this 
legislation, we are providing support to projects and programs that are 
important to the readiness of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, 
both active and reserve components. In this regard, $188.4 billion is 
authorized to meet the services' operation and maintenance requirements 
to support the combat operations, improve the readiness of deploying 
and nondeployed forces, and to support the Army and Marine Corps plans 
to increase their fiscal year 2008 end strengths.

I believe all of us in the Senate are concerned that our military 
forces have what they need to be trained and ready, but I am 
particularly concerned about the readiness of our ground forces. This 
legislation before us today fully funds the Army and Marine Corps 
request for depot level maintenance. I am encouraged that neither the 
Army nor Marine Corps identified a shortage of funds for depot 
maintenance. While the Chief of Naval Operations did bring to this 
committee's attention a funding shortfall for Navy aircraft depot 
maintenance, we approved an increase of $77 million. In addition, we 
included $4.8 billion for the procurement of ammunition of all types to 
support the services' war fighting, training, and war reserve 
requirements.

With regard to the Department of Defense's management and acquisition 
policy, I am particularly pleased this bill includes a provision 
requiring, for the first time, that the Department of Defense have a 
chief management officer. The Comptroller General has told the members 
of this committee on numerous occasions that the Department needs to do 
this to ensure that the Department's many high-risk areas get the top-
level management attention they deserve.

Other important acquisition reform provisions included in this bill 
are as follows: a provision that would provide the resources that DOD 
needs to address the shortcomings in its acquisition workforce; a 
series of provisions that would tighten DOD management of contract 
services; a provision that would ensure that our commanders on the 
battlefield have the authority they need to establish rules for armed 
contractors in an area of combat operations; a provision establishing 
guidelines for DOD to use in determining whether savings are 
''substantial'' for the purpose of justifying multiyear contracts; and 
a provision that would require that each of the Assistant Secretaries 
for Acquisition in the military departments be assisted by a three-star 
military deputy who has significant acquisition experience. I believe 
these provisions, taken together, will lead to substantial improvements 
in the DOD acquisition process.

I am particularly pleased this year's authorization bill includes a 
provision to establish a Director of Corrosion Control Policy and 
Oversight, and funding for corrosion prevention and control programs. 
Corrosion is a costly problem. In fact, it is one of the largest costs 
in the life cycle of weapons systems. In addition, corrosion reduces 
military readiness, as the need to repair or replace corrosion damage 
increases the downtime of critical military assets. Consequently, I 
firmly believe that cohesive corrosion control programs are integral to 
maintaining military readiness. This critical maintenance activity 
increases the life of multimillion dollar weapons systems and ensures 
their availability during times of crisis. Effective corrosion control 
should be made a key component of the Department of Defense's resetting 
strategy and funds should be allocated accordingly.

This legislation also includes my legislation to establish a National 
Language Council to develop a long-term and comprehensive language 
strategy and oversee the implementation of that strategy. This will 
ensure that the administration's current efforts to promote foreign 
language competency will develop into an organized and concerted effort 
to improve the Nation's foreign language capabilities.

We also make a valuable and important investment in our 
infrastructure by providing an additional $461 million above the budget 
request to repair, replace, and modernize our aging defense facilities 
and improve the quality of life and the productivity of our military. 
Furthermore, we make a true commitment to provide quality health care 
for all beneficiaries, including authorizing $24.6 billion for the 
Defense Health Program, authorizing the use of Federal pricing for 
drugs dispensed through the TRICARE retail program. In addition, we 
reject the administration's proposal to give DOD broad authority to 
increase TRICARE program cost-sharing amounts for military retirees and 
their dependents.

As chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee and a member of the 
Armed Services Committee, I am able to look at the issue of seamless 
transition from military to civilian life from two different 
perspectives and, at the appropriate time, I will be offering an 
amendment to the underlying bill to improve care specifically for 
veterans. My friend and colleague Chairman Levin and I have worked 
together on these issues. We held a joint hearing on April 12 and have 
developed a thoughtful set of provisions to deal with the VA's response 
to traumatic brain injuries, also known as TBI and also known as 
invisible wounds. The amendment I will be offering includes provisions 
recently approved by the Committee on Veterans' Affairs at our markup 
on June 27. In fact, this amendment is a direct product of the 
committee's work to address seamless transition issues and is the 
corresponding piece to S. 1606, the Dignified Treatment for Wounded 
Warriors Act.


At the heart of my amendment are the improvements to TBI care. 
Ranking Member Craig and I worked on these traumatic brain injury 
provisions and they have garnered the support of many organizations, 
including the American Academy of Neurology, the Brain Injury 
Association of America, and the Disabled American Veterans. The VA was 
caught flat-footed by the large number of devastating TBI cases 
resulting from the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. My amendment 
would go a long way toward resolving the difficulties faced by soldiers 
afflicted with TBI by providing comprehensive TBI


legislation. It would require individual rehabilitation plans for 
veterans with traumatic brain injury and authorizes the use of non-VA 
facilities for the best TBI treatment available. The amendment also 
requires much more research and education for severe TBI. We have even 
developed a pilot program for assisted living services for veterans 
with TBI.

My amendment would also extend the period of automatic eligibility 
for VA health care from 2 to 5 years for servicemembers returning from 
combat. It would ensure access to care for conditions that may not be 
apparent when a servicemember first leaves active duty and would 
contribute to a seamless transition from military to civilian life. In 
addition, this amendment requires a preliminary mental health 
evaluation be conducted within 30 days of a servicemember's request. VA 
must be prodded to ensure timely access to mental health care. I thank 
Senator Obama for working with me on this important provision.

Finally, our ongoing global operations have utilized the reserve 
components on an unprecedented scale. When these citizen soldiers 
redeploy, it is essential that VA include them in their outreach 
efforts. To recognize the importance of the National Guard and Reserve 
and to acknowledge their contributions to the Nation's efforts, my 
amendment redefines the VA's definition by specifically including them 
in the outreach program.

The Senate Armed Services Committee has taken bold and necessary 
steps in this legislation that will provide the necessary funds and 
management reforms required to support our service men and women while 
allowing the military to continue to meet our Nation's future defense 
needs.

Madam President, I yield the floor.