---
---

# None
## `a78b481d69df5dd1e3837a98a7d0dc35`
`Mr. DAVIS of Illinois — 28 February 2008`

---


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform, I join Representative John Yarmuth and his fellow colleagues 
from the Bluegrass State of Kentucky in considering H.R. 4454, which 
renames the postal facility at 3050 Hunsinger Lane in Louisville, 
Kentucky, as the Iraq and Afghanistan Fallen Military Heroes of 
Louisville Memorial Post Office Building.

As stated in the measure at hand, it was first introduced by 
Congressman John Yarmuth on December 11, 2007, and is cosponsored by 
all members of the Kentucky congressional delegation. The measure was 
referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, where it 
was considered and passed by voice vote on January 29, 2008.

H.R. 4454 is intended to remember the lives, service, and legacy of 
dozens of military men and women from the Louisville, Kentucky, area, 
who died in service during Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. By renaming this particular Louisville, Kentucky, post 
office, H.R. 4454 would set into motion the creation of a living 
tribute to the sacrifices made by so many of Kentucky's sons and 
daughters who gave their lives abroad in order to ensure our protection 
here in the homeland, an honor befitting the thousands of military men 
and women, past and present, from every State of the Union, that have 
unselfishly given themselves in service and battle for America.

H.R. 4454 will help to memorialize for generations to come the memory 
of Louisville, Kentucky's fallen loved ones.

So, Mr. Speaker, I ask that we too pay tribute to the sacrifices made 
by these great American heroes and sheroes and pass H.R. 4454.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.