---
---

# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2346, SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009
## `a78c42c6b26e504897a7a7d729aafaea`
`Ms. LEE of California — 16 June 2009`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I opposed the 2001 resolution 
authorizing the use of force because I believed it gave President Bush 
and any future President a blank check to wage war anywhere on the 
globe, starting in Afghanistan.

Unfortunately, we will be unable to avoid such ill-fated actions in 
the future until we repeal the 2001 authorization.

Today, nearly eight years later, I oppose the supplemental 
appropriations bill for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq because it 
continues us down the path of open-ended military escalation that can 
lead to war without end.

I oppose this $94 billion supplemental because:

It favors military activities over diplomatic, development, and 
reconstruction efforts by a ratio of 8 to 1;

It does not include an exit plan for Afghanistan;

It does not require the fully funded redeployment of troops and 
military contractors out of Iraq within 12 months; and

It does not include the strong regional approach the situation 
demands including a strong nuclear non-proliferation effort in 
Pakistan.

Madam Speaker, it is time we maximize our nation's ''smart power'' by 
increasing our use of diplomatic, development, and reconstruction 
activities.

Unfortunately, the supplemental appropriations bill does not reflect 
a fundamental shift in direction.

Therefore, I cannot support it.