# None
## `a78f4b105bfc8dda6a3c78c278ba27dd`
`Mr. CASEY — 29 June 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise tonight to talk about the war in 
Afghanistan, and, unfortunately tonight, as I begin my remarks, I have 
to report on yet another death of a soldier killed in action in 
Afghanistan. Yesterday, in Pennsylvania, we lost another marine. This 
time the marine was from West View, PA, Allegheny County, the county in 
which most people know the city of Pittsburgh is. SGT Joseph Caskey, 24 
years old, was on his second tour and was killed in action.

If the counting is right in terms of the number killed in action from 
Pennsylvania, he is likely the fiftieth killed in action from 
Pennsylvania. We have about 260 who have been wounded. That number may 
be higher, but that is the most recent number I have seen. Sergeant 
Caskey gave us, as Abraham Lincoln said so eloquently so many years 
ago, the last full measure of devotion to his country. And like so many 
others--hundreds and hundreds who have died in the conflict in 
Afghanistan, and those who died in Iraq and so many other conflicts--we 
mourn his loss and we commend his service, but I think we also, at the 
same time, must recommit ourselves to making sure we are putting this 
conflict on the floor of the Senate; that we debate it more; that we 
talk about it more, so that we get the policy right. I am going to 
speak a little while tonight about that.

In terms of the lethality or the focus we have on those who have lost 
their lives, June is the deadliest month on record for coalition 
forces. I wish we didn't have to report on that. I wish those of us who 
come to the floor periodically to talk about the war and to talk about 
individuals from our States who have perished--who have either been 
killed or who are suffering from grievous injuries--could come and talk 
about some other milestone in the life of that person--a soldier such 
as 24-year-old Sergeant Caskey. I wish I could come and report about 
some other milestone in his life instead of the news about his death.

But we have to talk more about this war. We have to make sure we are 
debating it more. One of the things that we know has just transpired is 
a change in command. Today, the Senate Armed Services Committee--and 
the Presiding Officer is a member of that committee--voted in favor, 
thank goodness, of General Petraeus's nomination to be the Commander of 
the ISAF forces in Afghanistan. I think to say this is bipartisan is an 
understatement. We know that President Obama has chosen a man worthy of 
this job, and we are fortunate that he has once again accepted the call 
to action and accepted this new responsibility.

I spoke today by telephone with General Petraeus and covered a number 
of issues dealing with a whole range of foreign policy and security 
issues, including some of those pertinent to the conflict in 
Afghanistan. I have full confidence, as I know so many others in this 
Chamber and across the country do, in his leadership. I have full 
confidence that he will be able to implement a strategy that 
contributes to the overall security of Afghanistan and also a strategy 
that will train the Afghan security forces and create the kind of 
political space the Afghan Government needs to provide security and 
services to its people.

This new command by General Petraeus, upon confirmation--it has not 
been voted on in the Senate, but I will be voting for him, and I know 
he will receive a great vote--will bring a new opportunity to assess 
where we are in the fight, and it is good that we do that. The news, 
unfortunately, is not all that encouraging lately. We continue to face 
a host of challenges in Afghanistan.

A Washington Post newspaper report this week cited allegations of 
blatant and rampant corruption within the senior ranks of the Afghan 
Government. The report detailed examples where government officials 
blocked corruption investigations and ordered investigators to remove 
names from case files. That is just one problem. Secondly, there were 
allegations of individuals preventing the arrest of senior officials 
and not acknowledging evidence against businessmen accused of helping 
Afghan elites to move millions of dollars out of the country.

This was a published report. These are allegations, and we hope they 
are not true, but if they are, we have much deeper problems than we 
thought maybe even a couple of days ago. These


are serious allegations that require a serious and thorough 
investigation and scrutiny. Those who are accused of these crimes 
should be prosecuted upon the review of the evidence.

As I have said in the past about this conflict, our success will be 
determined by a belief among Afghans that justice can be delivered by 
its government. The people of Afghanistan have a right to expect honest 
government officials working on behalf of the public good, working on 
behalf of the people, not to enrich themselves, not to provide 
advantages for the elite in Afghanistan, not just to provide advantages 
for the wealthy but to make sure that the people are the beneficiaries 
of a clean, honest government and the kind of effective services that 
the people should have a right to expect.

The people also have a right to expect a police force capable of 
protecting the population against criminals. They do have that right. 
They also have a right to a fair and efficient system of justice in 
Afghanistan, capable of delivering verdicts based upon the rule of law 
and not according to the barbaric code embraced by the Taliban. 
Unfortunately, today, we don't yet see a government in Afghanistan that 
is fully capable of providing this kind of justice. So we have to 
monitor what is happening there. We have to make sure we see results 
and not just rhetoric. We have to see the reality of progress on 
security, on justice, on the delivery of services--not just the 
aspiration but the delivery of results.

As we consider the nomination of General Petraeus--and as I mentioned 
before, a nomination I fully support--I hope this nomination will be 
one of the reasons we will have a more substantial discussion or debate 
about the policy here in the Senate. That is where that debate should 
take place, as it takes place in the House and outside of the Capitol 
and across America. We should have in the Senate a debate or a 
reengagement of the debate about this policy. We owe it to our fighting 
men and women to do nothing less than that, to be committed to 
examining every aspect of the conflict in the weeks and months ahead. 
We must continue to ask and get answers to the tough questions on 
security, on governance, and on the delivery of services, to mention 
three broad areas of review, analysis, and, of course, inquiry.

As allegations of Afghan Government corruption emerge, oversight is 
essential when we hear these allegations. If the Afghan national police 
and army are not hitting their recruitment and training targets, for 
example, we need to know why. The American people and the Afghan people 
have a right to expect that we and the Afghanistan leadership, starting 
with President Karzai, get answers to those tough questions about the 
security, and especially about the army and the police.

I spoke yesterday of my commitment, and the commitment of so many 
others in this Chamber, to helping stem the flow of ammonium nitrate 
into Afghanistan from its neighbors, particularly Pakistan and the 
countries of central Asia. This deadly ingredient is used in most of 
the IEDs found in Afghanistan--bombs which have grown more powerful in 
recent months. We are now getting reports of the destructive power of 
IEDs not only to kill and to maim our troops who happen to walk near 
one of these explosive devices but to literally lift up an MRAP--this 
great vehicle we have been able to produce that lessens the chances 
that an explosion under the vehicle will kill someone. The explosions 
are now so great that they have been lifting up the MRAP and flipping 
it on its head and killing or gravely injuring troops not because the 
bottom technology and the engineering wonder that has saved so many 
lives is giving out, but because the vehicle itself is being lifted up 
and then smashed down in a way we couldn't even imagine maybe even a 
year ago or months ago.

As I mention the impact of ammonium nitrate as the destructive 
ingredient in the IEDs, it so happens that Sergeant Caskey, the marine 
I spoke of earlier from Pennsylvania, who we believe is the fiftieth 
soldier killed in action in Afghanistan, was killed by an IED, as so 
many others--hundreds and hundreds--have been killed in that manner.

This concern about ammonium nitrate is just one of a series of 
regional concerns that we have with respect to the conflict in 
Afghanistan. Pakistan has recognized the severity of the threat posed 
by the Afghan and Pakistani Taliban. The Pakistani forces have suffered 
heavy losses within their own borders, and I respect the commitment 
they have shown as the struggle continues. While the battle has been 
tough and difficult, we will need more help from the Pakistani people 
and their security forces in the weeks and months and years ahead.

We have no better military leader to take on this challenge at this 
time than General Petraeus. As we confront this enormous challenge, our 
country has called upon him again and he has answered affirmatively to 
that call. I believe General Petraeus has the experience, the 
knowledge, the insight, and of course the respect of not only leaders 
in the military but also leaders in the region and, of course, he has 
the respect and support of the American people. So we should be happy 
and affirmative about that part of the story even as we confront 
allegations of corruption, even as we confront more and more troops 
wounded and killed in action, even as we confront the challenge of this 
policy.

The minimum we must do in the Senate is to make sure that the 
oversight we provide, the debates we engage in, and all of the work 
that we do in the Senate that relates to this policy, at a minimum 
attempts to justify and to be equal to the commitment of our troops. 
Their job is so much more difficult than our job. We don't have to put 
our lives on the line. We debate and we learn and we try to move the 
policy forward, but the least we should do is to have a debate that 
matches or at least attempts to be equivalent to the sacrifice that 
they display every day.

When we think of our troops, we mourn, of course, those who have been 
killed in action, and we also remember and salute and celebrate the 
contributions of those who have served and who come home with an 
injury, sometimes grievously wounded.

Of course, we remember and salute those who serve and, fortunately, 
with the blessing of God, are not killed or not wounded and they can 
come home and be reunited with their families, with their communities.

We remember all those, as Abraham Lincoln said a long time ago: ''Him 
who has borne the battle.'' Of course in 2010 we are talking about him 
and her, those who have borne this battle.

We have a long way to go as it relates to this policy but, as we are 
thinking tonight of the hope we have in General Petraeus's leadership, 
the confidence we have in his ability and his commitment--he is a 
patriot like few others--even as we are hopeful about that we remember 
those who lost their lives, such as Sergeant Caskey, of West View, PA, 
and so many others who have served, and their families, who have loved 
and lost.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.