# None
## `a7955061c7fd9d0786a5504b12723a5e`
`Mr. HARKIN — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I am disappointed with the omnibus 
appropriations bill that is before us today. With the McConnell 
amendment, this omnibus bill will write yet another blank check--this 
one for a whopping $70 billion--for the President to spend on his wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan. At the same time, this bill will grossly 
underfund urgent priorities here at home--everything from cancer 
research to law enforcement to home heating assistance.

And why is this happening? It is happening because President Bush has 
refused to compromise, refused to negotiate, refused to respect 
Congress as a coequal partner in the budgeting process.

The President claims that he is standing on principle, the principle 
of budget restraint and fiscal conservatism. But this claim is 
laughable.

Think about it: Mr. Bush provoked a bitter confrontation with 
Congress over the $22 billion that we proposed spending on urgent 
domestic priorities above his budget request. Democrats offered to 
split the difference, lowering that amount to $11 billion. But Mr. Bush 
still refused to negotiate or compromise.

Meanwhile, he and his allies have insisted on vastly more than that--
a total of $144 billion--for the war in Iraq this year, all of which 
will simply be added to the deficit. At the same time, he demands a $50 
billion AMT fix--which we all favor--but he insists that we not pay for 
it. That's another $50 billion piled onto the deficit.

So the President has forced Congress to cut $22 billion in domestic 
funding from the budget, and he turns right around and demands that 
Congress add more than 10 times that--more than $200 billion--for wars 
and tax cuts, all of it unpaid for, all of it added to the deficit. And 
this is what he calls budget restraint and fiscal conservatism? As I 
said, that claim is simply laughable.

Actually, this is not so much laughable as it is shameful. Bear in 
mind that in October the Senate passed an appropriations bill for 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education by an overwhelming 75 
to 19 margin, including a strong majority of Republican Senators. That 
bipartisan support reflected the fact that the bill funded essential, 
life-supporting, and life-saving services for millions of people in 
this country. That bill reflected the values and priorities of the 
American people.

But even before we brought the health and education appropriations 
bill to the floor, President Bush threatened to veto it. He dismissed 
the bill as ''social spending,'' as though it pays for Saturday night 
socials or something. Then, on November 13, in one fell swoop, Mr. Bush 
vetoed the bill, and insisted, again, that we bend to his budget 
demands.

Let me remind our colleagues what Mr. Bush was demanding. The 
President demanded that we cut cancer research and other medical 
research at the National Institutes of Health.

He demanded that we cut thousands of families from the Low Income 
Home Energy Assistance Program.

He demanded that we completely eliminate the safety net that includes 
job training, housing, and emergency food assistance for our most needy 
citizens, including seniors and people with disabilities.

He demanded that we slash funding for Community Health Centers, 
preventing 225 new centers from opening.

He demanded that we dramatically cut funding for law enforcement and 
the COPS program.

He demanded that we cut funding for special education and Head Start.

I am pleased to say that we did not allow these heartless, misguided 
priorities to prevail entirely. The President has refused to 
compromise, refused to negotiate--and, no question, this is going to 
hurt millions of Americans, including the most needy among us. 
Nonetheless, I am pleased with what we have been able to salvage in 
this bill.

The omnibus bill before us today technically yields to the 
President's top-line number of $515.7 billion. But I am pleased to 
report that it shifts funding in order to address some of the bottom-
line priorities of the American people and of the Democratic majority 
in Congress.

Even within the constraints of this bill, the final Labor-HHS-
Education section of the omnibus includes significant increases above 
the President's budget. For instance, it includes: an


additional $607 million for the National Institutes of Health, 
additional $788 million for LIHEAP, the home-heating assistance program 
for low-income families.

It provides $77 million above the President's budget for community 
Health Centers, allowing more than 50 new centers to be opened.

It provides an additional $955 million for Head Start, Title I, 
special education, and teacher quality.

It also provides an additional $150 million for the Social Security 
Administration to help clear out the backlog of disability claims.

However, because of the President's veto threat and refusal to 
compromise, law enforcement remains woefully underfunded, in particular 
support for local police departments. Fewer community health centers 
will be opened and fewer children will be vaccinated. More than 80,000 
fewer children will be served under Title I.

Every dime of additional funding in this bill goes to meet basic, 
essential needs here at home--needs that have been sadly neglected in 
recent years, even as we have squandered hundreds of billions of 
dollars in Iraq.

I voted against the McConnell amendment to provide another $70 
billion in funding, mostly for Iraq. The war in Iraq has not reduced 
the threat of another terrorist attack in America, it has increased 
that threat. It has not defeated Islamic terrorists, it has brought 
more recruits to the ranks of al Qaeda.

Nor has the so-called ''surge'' in Iraq succeeded as advertised. The 
whole rationale for the surge was to create breathing space for new 
elections in Iraq and reconciliation between Sunnis and Shiites. These 
things have not happened.

I joined with Senator Feingold to attempt to link any new funding for 
Iraq to a deadline for redeployment of our troops. Unfortunately, that 
amendment failed. This means that the next $70 billion appropriation 
for Iraq will not require any redeployments, nor will it include any 
benchmarks that the Iraqi government must meet. It is simply a blank 
check, untied to any demands or expectations, and that is unacceptable.

Indeed, I find it ironic that Mr. Bush has been more than happy to 
spend untold billions of dollars on schools, hospitals, job training, 
and law enforcement--in Iraq. But when we try to address those 
priorities here at home, Mr. Bush gets out his veto pen and hoists the 
flag of what he calls ''fiscal conservatism.''

But, as I have said, Mr. Bush's pose as a fiscal conservative is 
absurd.

During the six years that the Republicans largely controlled 
Congress, Mr. Bush did not veto a single appropriations bill, including 
many that exceeded his budget requests.

He is demanding that we pass supplemental bills that bring war 
spending, this year alone, to more than $196 billion, mostly for Iraq. 
The Congressional Budget Office now estimates that Mr. Bush's war in 
Iraq will cost a staggering $1.9 trillion through the next decade. Yet, 
just last week, he pledged to veto the omnibus bill because of $11 
billion in funding for education, health, biomedical research and other 
domestic priorities.

Think about it: The President is demanding that we continue to spend 
$12 billion a month on his war in Iraq, yet he objected to an 
additional $11 billion over a full year for domestic funding. This is 
simply not reasonable or rational.

At the same time, the President is insisting that we send him an 
Alternative Minimum Tax fix costing $50 billion. Yes, we need to fix 
the AMT, and we need to do so in a responsible way. But, Mr. Bush has a 
different idea. He refuses to pay for the AMT fix. He insists that we 
simply pile it onto the deficit, dumping it on our children and 
grandchildren.

Bear in mind, by the way, that this AMT problem is not a surprise to 
anyone. The 2001 tax cut bill deliberately refused to address the AMT 
issue in order to squeeze in hundreds of millions of dollars in 
additional tax cuts, overwhelmingly for the well-off. Mr. Bush used the 
AMT to mask the true cost of the tax cuts. But, in doing so, he left 
the AMT as a ticking time-bomb that would soon double the number of 
Americans subject to the tax.

Today, that time-bomb is exploding, threatening to hurt millions of 
middle-class families. The House of Representatives, to its great 
credit, came up with a responsible way of paying for the AMT fix. The 
House proposed to eliminate the so-called ''carried interest'' tax 
break for hedge fund managers with multi-million-dollar incomes--a tax 
break that allows them to pay their taxes at lower marginal rates than 
middle-income Americans.

Eliminating this egregious tax break is a matter of basic fairness. 
It also would help to pay for the AMT fix. But the President said no. 
He promised to veto it. All of which means that the $50 billion we 
spend on the AMT patch will not be paid for; it will be added to the 
deficit and the debt. That is not just a shame; it is shameful.

So I regret that the President vetoed a good, bipartisan Labor-HHS-
Education appropriations bill that passed this body overwhelmingly. I 
regret that Mr. Bush has refused to negotiate or compromise. I regret 
that he demands that we spend endlessly on his war in Iraq, even as he 
demands that we slash essential services and programs here at home.

But, despite all of these disappointments, we can take pride in the 
fact that this omnibus bill, in important ways, reflects the values and 
priorities of the American people. We have found additional funding for 
our priorities--priorities ranging from cancer research to education to 
law enforcement. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this 
bill.

