---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a7a0181a7facc6eb0f9d890785653121`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 16 February 2007`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. I thank the gentlelady for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, this week on the floor, the House will provide our 
Nation with a clear, unambiguous answer to the most important question 
facing the country: Will this body side with the President's approach 
to the war in Iraq, or will we demand change?

Since Tuesday we have been debating President Bush's plan to escalate 
the war in Iraq. It is a debate that was long overdue and one which the 
American people and our troops risking their lives in Iraq and 
Afghanistan deserve.

The simple reality is that two-thirds of the American public, 
including myself, do not trust the President's judgment when it comes 
to the war. It is a conflict that has been defined by mismanagement and 
misinformation since it began, and the results have been devastating 
for the Iraqi people and for our men and women in uniform.

We know that top administration officials, men like Douglas Feith, 
abused the public trust and misused the work of the intelligence 
community when making the case for the war. Since then, every piece of 
evidence suggests that the strategy employed by this administration has 
failed in Iraq. Sectarian strife in Iraq has not abated, with routine 
bombings that kill dozens of civilians daily. The unemployment rate in 
Iraq is as high as 25 percent and 40 percent. Baghdad has only a few 
hours of electricity per day.

Our troops have continued to pay the price of being caught in the 
middle of


another nation's civil war. 84 troops were killed last month, 48 more 
have been killed already this month.

At the same time, Mr. Speaker, corruption, fraud and lack of 
oversight have haunted every aspect of our involvement in Iraq. Stuart 
Bowen, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, has 
uncovered $10 billion in reconstruction funding that simply disappeared 
once it was sent overseas. Projects critical to the rebuilding and 
stabilization of Iraq society have been handed out to private firms, 
using no-bid contracts, firms that failed to live up to their 
responsibilities.

To cite one example, the construction of a new Baghdad police college 
to train Iraqi security officers, a $75 million project of vital 
importance to stability, was completely undermined by a private 
construction company. The work was so shoddy that the classrooms it 
built posed a health risk to the students and had to be abandoned. That 
same fraud and lack of oversight for years have posed mortal risk to 
our soldiers.

In January of 2006, we learned that 80 percent of the U.S. Marines 
who had died of upper body wounds in Iraq would have lived if they had 
had the proper armor. A Pentagon report released last month stated once 
again that our troops have been sent into battle time and time again 
without proper armor equipment, a reality which still exists today.

This simply hasn't been a case of going to war with the army you 
have, as Mr. Rumsfeld said. We have faced these shortages in part 
because the Pentagon contracts were given to companies who weren't up 
to the job and couldn't meet the demands of the conflict.

A legitimate question might be, are we funding the troops or are we 
funding crooked contractors and Iraqi government officials? Hundreds of 
dollars have simply disappeared. These are borrowed dollars, ladies and 
gentlemen, mainly from China.

My friends on the other side of the aisle made two arguments against 
the resolution. They have told us that to condemn the President's surge 
means that this Congress is giving up in Iraq, and they told us that we 
cannot support the troops without supporting their mission.

Our troops have done their job in Iraq and they have risked their 
lives countless times, but now they are being asked to do something 
that no army can do, find a military solution to a political problem. 
If the mission we have given our brave soldiers is the wrong one, and 
the past 4 years prove that it is, why would we help our enemies by 
refusing to change course? If that mission is the wrong one, how is 
supporting the mission that is wrong supporting the troops? If the 
mission is the wrong one, then how is demanding a change giving up? 
Giving up means just the opposite, it means insisting on a continuing 
failing strategy.

This escalation of the war is the same failed strategy, all it will 
do is put more and more of our young men and women in harm's way. That 
reality has led it to be opposed by a bipartisan majority in this 
House. A Republican Representative recently said, ''This is not a fresh 
approach, it is just more of the same.''

The plan has been publicly opposed by numerous high-ranking generals, 
such as General John Abizaid, General Colin Powell and General James T. 
Conway, the Commandant of the Marine Corps. He recently said that the 
Joint Chiefs ''do not believe that just adding numbers for the sake of 
adding numbers, just thickening the mix, is the necessary way to go.''

We need to stop this escalation and change what we are doing in Iraq. 
We need to promote a political solution and a diplomatic solution to 
the problems.

I urge the passage of this resolution.