---
---

# None
## `a7a42255dc332217611bffd21ee24dab`
`Mr. BAYH — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. As my chairman is already fully aware, today's 
counterinsurgency and counterterror operations remain intelligence 
driven. The ultimate success of so many of our military's missions 
depends on the effectiveness of our intelligence capabilities. Truly, 
each and every single operation has an intelligence component.

I do not believe that these assets can ever replace people or the 
human intelligence they produce, but they remain highly valuable given 
their limited footprint and ability to collect data across multiple 
spectrums. Simply put, they are force multipliers. Systems like the 
Predator, Reaper, and Sky Warrior have long loiter times and an ability 
to strike immediately. Further, they do not have to wait on the arrival 
of other manned assets before engaging a target, which is something 
that we cannot currently duplicate.

I have visited Iraq and Afghanistan, where I was told over and again 
the importance of these ISR assets. Further, during a recent Armed 
Services hearing, I was able to question our new Special Operations 
Commander, Admiral Olson, about medium to high altitude UAV 
requirements. He told the committee that there is currently a 30 UAV 
orbit requirement in CENTCOM. However, we only have 12 orbits available 
today. I find this unacceptable.

In both major theaters of operation, we have been told how difficult 
it can be to have constant surveillance of suspected enemy hideouts. 
Given that insurgents are nearly always local, these hideouts and safe 
havens can often be in the midst of innocent bystanders and be 
difficult to observe covertly. Having eyes on a site to provide the 
target discrimination our commanders need is invaluable.

No matter how long American forces remain in either theater, I 
strongly believe that some of the last assets to leave will be ISR 
collection in nature. Medium to high altitude UAVs do just that, and I 
ask that my colleague from Hawaii look to address this significant 
shortfall in the upcoming fiscal year 2008 supplemental appropriations 
bill.