---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a7a727c2daa2416c150e98a8521a7469`
`Mr. HOYER — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, 3 months ago, the American people sent a 
resounding message, a message for change. They voted for a new 
direction in our Nation, including a new direction for the war in Iraq, 
which will enter its fifth year next month.

This week on this House floor the Members of this great body can 
demonstrate that we not only have heard the voters' message, but also 
that we have the collective will to send one of our own.

The bipartisan resolution before us asks the Members one 
straightforward question to be answered. Do you approve of the 
President's proposal to deploy more than 20,000 additional troops in 
Iraq, or do you not? Thus, this resolution is a clarifying moment for 
the Members to say precisely where they stand on the President's plan.

There is little doubt that our Iraq policy is not succeeding. Our 
Commander in Chief, President Bush, acknowledged on this floor last 
month during his State of the Union address that, and I quote, 
''Whatever you voted for, you did not vote for failure.''

I voted for the authorization, and I did not vote for failure. But 
the policies being pursued by this administration have not led to 
success.

After nearly 4 years at war, after more than 3,100 of our finest sons 
and daughters have given the ultimate measure of sacrifice in Iraq, 
after more than 25,000 have been wounded, after the expenditure of more 
than $400 billion on this war effort by the American taxpayer, our 
success seems as remote as ever.

Not surprisingly, two-thirds of the American people oppose the 
President's escalation plan. So do many current and former senior 
military officials, and Prime Minister Maliki has expressed his 
disapproval as well.

I oppose the President's plan for several reasons. First, we simply 
cannot ignore the many miscalculations made by the administration about 
this war, from sending too few troops, to grossly underestimating the 
cost, to failing to properly plan for the postwar period.

The President repeatedly said that his policies were working. He was 
tragically wrong, just as he is wrong today, in my view, about this 
escalation.

Secondly, this troop escalation does not represent a new strategy. In 
fact, we have tried at least four escalations in the past, none of 
which has succeeded in quelling violence.

The time for more troops was 4 years ago, 3 years ago, perhaps even 2 
years ago, but not today.

The fact is our commitment of forces has never, has never been 
commensurate with the risk the President says exists. Never has the 
President, the Commander in Chief, suggested the resources necessary to 
succeed. This is too little, tragically, too late.

Third, we cannot disregard the deep skepticism and warnings of our 
military leaders. General Abizaid, not just another soldier, but the 
former chief of the Central Command in charge of our effort in Iraq, 
has stated that, and I quote, ''More American forces prevent the Iraqis 
from doing more, from taking more responsibility for their own 
future.'' That is the consequence General Abizaid believes of the 
President's policy.

Former Secretary of State Powell, one of the military leaders so 
successful in Iraq I, stated, and I quote again,


''I am not persuaded that another surge of troops into Baghdad for the 
purposes of suppressing the communitarian violence, this civil war, 
will work.'' That is General Powell.

And even Senator McCain, who supports the President's escalation 
nonetheless, said just last week, ''I don't think it enhances our 
chances for succeeding in Iraq.''

It is obvious that there is not a military solution to the violence 
in Iraq. We need a diplomatic surge, a surge of Iraqi responsibility.

We must implement an aggressive diplomatic strategy, as suggested by 
our friend, Frank Wolf, both within the region and beyond. The Iraqis 
must take the lead on security, and the mission of American forces must 
shift from combat to counterterrorism, training and logistics. And we 
must begin the responsible redeployment of our forces.

Now, let me close by urging Members to disregard the arguments of 
those who seek to mischaracterize this resolution. Some say that the 
resolution will demoralize our troops. In a democracy it is proper and 
essential that we debate the tactics and strategy we are employing when 
we are asking young Americans, and some not so young Americans, to be 
at the point of the spear. It is easy for us to talk about tactics and 
strategy, not so easy for those who are in harm's way.

The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Pace, says this 
debate will not adversely affect morale if we make it clear, as we have 
made it clear over and over and over again, that we will not abandon, 
we will not underman, we will not undersupply, we will not undertrain, 
and we will not defund those who we have put in harm's way. We will 
support our troops today, tomorrow and every day thereafter.

Some say that this resolution will demoralize our troops. Yet General 
Pace, as I said, says otherwise.

Others say that this resolution has not received adequate 
consideration. Yet, I tell my friends, in the first 6 weeks of this new 
Congress, we have held 52 House and Senate hearings. For the last 4 
years this Congress has been absent without leave, and the American 
people know it. We did not demand accountability. We did not look at 
strategy. We did not question the President's policies. Fifty-two 
hearings have been held to date, and Chairman Lantos has announced that 
he will hold a full committee hearing on all pending resolutions 
related to Iraq when we come back from the President's Day break.

Some say that this resolution is merely symbolic. To them I simply 
state that the bipartisan expression of the will of this House, when it 
mirrors the views of the vast majority of the American public, cannot, 
must not, should not be casually ignored.

Some say that this resolution signals retreat in the war on terror. 
As one who is absolutely committed to prevailing in the war on terror, 
to protect our people, to protect our country and, yes, to protect my 
three daughters, my three grandchildren, and my great grandchild, I am 
absolutely committed to policies that will protect us from terror and 
defeat those terrorists who threaten us. Continuing to support failed 
strategy, however, weakens our efforts in the war on terror. It does 
not strengthen them.

Furthermore, our failure to implement an effective strategy in Iraq 
has clearly, indisputably, resulted in encouraging and enhancing the 
ability of terrorists to recruit and to spread their twisted, hateful, 
violent ideology.

Finally, my colleagues, some assert that this resolution is a first 
step to defunding our troops in the field. This is categorically false.

While the new majority will explore other opportunities to affect 
Iraq policy, our commitment to our men and women in harm's way is 
unwavering.

Mr. Speaker, there is not a Member of this body, not one, on either 
side of the aisle, who does not pray for our Nation's success in Iraq.

Our brave service men and women have performed there with valor and 
with great honor. They have done everything that a grateful Nation has 
asked of them since the beginning of this war. We will not abandon 
them. I say to them directly, we will not abandon you. We will support 
you and we will assure that you are trained and equipped for the 
mission that we give you.

This is a critical moment, I tell you, my colleagues, in our Nation's 
war effort in Iraq. The President's policy is failing and his most 
recent proposal promises more of the same. This resolution is a first 
step in our attempt to forge a new direction in Iraq, and I urge every 
Member to support it.