---
---

# None
## `a7b44be449744656b35e52bf53e098f1`
`Mr. FEINGOLD — 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I am pleased we have had a chance to 
debate S. 2633, the Feingold-Reid bill requiring the safe redeployment 
of our troops from Iraq. I am very grateful to the majority leader for 
allowing this debate and for cosponsoring this legislation. He is a 
strong opponent of the war, and he understands how it is distracting us 
from our top national security priority: defeating the global threat 
presented by al-Qaida and its affiliates.

While the debate on Iraq is refreshing, the Republicans still will 
not allow us to actually vote on the bill. In fact, if you listened to 
the other side during this debate, it was apparent they believe leaving 
large numbers of U.S. troops in Iraq indefinitely for an open-ended 
military mission is somehow in our country's interest.

The American people must be scratching their heads and thinking: What 
is it going to take to get those folks in Washington to listen to us? I 
can assure them--and I can assure my colleagues--we will have more 
debate and votes on Iraq. Members will have still more opportunities to 
listen to their constituents, and to listen to the warnings about the 
global threat from al-Qaida and the intolerable strain on our military. 
And they will again have to decide whether to keep ignoring those 
warnings and give the President the green light to continue a war 
without end in Iraq.

In a few minutes, the Senate will vote in relation to another 
Feingold-Reid bill, S. 2634, addressing al-Qaida. Before I discuss that 
bill, I wish to respond to some of the criticisms that have been 
leveled against the Feingold-Reid Iraq redeployment bill.

I am glad some of my colleagues have apparently taken the time to 
read the Iraq bill, but I wish some of them had read it a little more 
carefully, or thought a little harder, before voicing some of their 
concerns.

Of course, some of the criticisms come from Members who have no 
interest in stopping or slowing down the war. But I have even heard a 
few complaints from Members on our side who oppose the war. In fact, 
some Democrats seem to be trying a lot harder to come up with arguments 
against this bill, and against Congress acting, than they are trying to 
end the war. One or two senior Democrats are actually lobbying hard 
behind the scenes against the Feingold-Reid bill. That is 
disappointing, to say the least, and it shows us all what we continue 
to be up against as we try to bring this war to a close.

Let me start by pointing out that the Feingold-Reid bill does not--
does not--restrict the Government's ability to go after al-Qaida and 
its affiliates around the globe. In fact, one of the main purposes of 
the bill is to ensure we have the full capability to do just that. When 
it comes to our troops in Iraq, however, we cannot allow this President 
to use the narrow exceptions in this bill to continue his misguided 
policies. The language in the bill has been crafted to try to ensure 
the administration does not--and cannot--continue to maintain a heavy 
military footprint in Iraq.

Specifically, the first exception in the Feingold-Reid bill allows 
funding to continue for ''targeted operations, limited in duration and 
scope, against members of AQ and affiliated international terrorist 
organizations.''

This provision allows operations against AQ in Iraq because fighting 
al-Qaida is central to our national security. But it does not allow the 
President to continue the current opened-ended mission because it is 
not in our national security interest to leave our troops on the front 
lines in the middle of an Iraqi civil war.

The ''limited in duration and scope'' language prohibits operations 
without a clearly defined counterterrorism objective, such as the 
current open-ended


mission. And, of course, this provision, like the rest of the bill, 
only applies to Iraq. It does not affect any other U.S. operations 
around the world. But if my colleagues are particularly troubled by 
this ''duration and scope'' language, I am open to discussing with them 
any reasonable modifications that do not open new loopholes. And this 
is no reason to completely block the Senate from even considering the 
bill. My colleagues are free to try to amend it, if they will only let 
us take it up.

If my colleagues think we should have U.S. troops conducting 
operations in Iraq against other organizations that are not affiliated 
with AQ, then we do, in fact, have a difference of opinion. We need to 
be clear about our priorities. Our top national security priority is 
the threat posed by al-Qaida and its affiliates. Pitting our brave men 
and women in uniform against groups or entities in Iraq that do not 
pose a direct threat to the United States is a misuse of our resources, 
and it is exactly that mistake I am trying to fix with this 
legislation.

Obviously, at all times, U.S. troops in Iraq will be able to defend 
themselves against any perceived threat, regardless of who it comes 
from. But when we are talking about planning and conducting operations, 
those operations would need to be targeted against members of al-Qaida 
or affiliates. If we cannot figure out who we are launching operations 
against, and if we cannot figure out how to distinguish between al-
Qaida in Iraq and the many other unsavory actors in Iraq who do not 
directly threaten our interests, then we have a serious intelligence 
problem which underscores the degree to which this war is distracting 
us from our top priority.

The Feingold-Reid bill also allows U.S. troops to remain in Iraq to 
provide ''security for personnel and infrastructure of the United 
States Government.'' A question has been raised about whether U.S. 
troops could also provide security for non-U.S. coalition forces under 
this provision. Of course, the vast majority of foreign troops in Iraq 
are U.S. troops. We are the ones holding the bag there, and that is a 
direct result of this administration's decision to rush to war without 
building a strong, sustainable coalition. So raising concerns about 
non-Iraqi coalition forces is largely a red herring. However, I respect 
the contributions of those coalition troops, and I would be open, 
again, to discussing ways in which we can ensure they are protected 
without opening up a big loophole to keep a lot more U.S. troops there. 
Again, technical concerns such as this are no reason to block us from 
even considering the bill. Frankly, it sounds like an excuse not to 
deal with the real issue, which is our need to get out of this 
situation.

The Feingold-Reid bill also permits U.S. troops to be stationed in 
Iraq to provide ''training to members of the Iraqi Security Forces who 
have not been involved in sectarian violence or in attacks upon the 
U.S. Armed Forces. . . .''

This does not require any kind of guarantee that ISF troops receiving 
training have not been involved in sectarian violence or attacks upon 
the U.S., as some have suggested. It just requires some good-faith 
effort to make sure we are not assisting some of the very people 
responsible for destabilizing Iraq and killing Americans. That seems 
pretty reasonable, doesn't it? Just kind of a good-faith effort to make 
sure we are not helping people who have already killed Americans. One 
would think that was reasonable.

This should not be controversial. We have a policy as a government of 
not supporting militaries around the world that commit undisciplined 
acts of violence, and this administration ostensibly vets foreign 
militaries thoroughly under what is known as the ''Leahy Law.'' I do 
not see why we should make an exception for Iraq, particularly when the 
GAO and General Jones have issued reports showing that the ISF is 
compromised by militias. If we continue to arm and train the ISF, we 
may simply be contributing to ongoing instability in Iraq. At a 
minimum, then, we need to be careful to ensure we are not giving some 
of the worst actors in Iraq the tools to perpetuate further violence 
and bloodshed.

Oh, and by the way, we have already trained over 439,000 ISF 
personnel. This certainly raises questions about how much more training 
they need. We need to make sure the President cannot keep tens of 
thousands of troops in Iraq policing the civil war under the guise of 
''training.''

Indeed, the ''training'' U.S. military personnel in Iraq are 
providing is not what is traditionally thought of as training, such as 
boot camp. Our training is all field training, and there is no bright 
line between training and joint operations.

Now, some folks here think that is fine. They want U.S. troops to 
continue being embedded with Iraqi troops, conducting joint operations. 
The Feingold-Reid bill would not foreclose all joint operations or the 
equipping of ISF. U.S. troops could continue to conduct joint 
counterterrorism operations with ISF so long as the operations target 
al-Qaida or affiliated international terrorist organizations. But U.S. 
troops could not be embedded with Iraqi Security Forces for 
''training'' purposes. And the U.S. may continue to equip ISF but may 
not deploy U.S. troops to Iraq solely for this purpose.

Some on our side want U.S. troops to continue providing ''logistical 
support'' to Iraqi forces indefinitely. This, again, is a backdoor way 
to keep substantial numbers of U.S. troops on the front lines, 
performing basic combat support functions, such as providing air 
support. Even seemingly run-of-the-mill logistical operations can be 
extremely dangerous in the chaotic environment in Iraq. That is not in 
our national security interest, and it is not something we should 
permit. We need a full redeployment, not a halfhearted half measure.

I hope my colleagues will rethink their opposition to the Feingold-
Reid bill. If they do have these kinds of concerns about it, 
particularly some of the more technical concerns I have addressed, 
well, let's actually allow the bill to come to the floor and let's have 
amendments and votes. That is our responsibility as legislators, and we 
owe it to our constituents and our men and women in uniform to have 
this debate in the open and on the record.

