---
---

# CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
## `a7c69a420c57072d3081607afa648462`
`Mr. BAUCUS — 11 March 2008`

---


Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, the author and poet, Cervantes, had a 
character say:




 My wages . . . I have earned with the sweat of my brows.


And so it is with America's hard-working families. They have earned 
their wages with the sweat of their brows. This afternoon, along with a 
number of other Senators, I intend to offer an amendment that would 
take the surplus in the budget resolution and give it back to hard-
working American families who earned it.

First, our amendment makes the 10-percent tax bracket permanent. That 
is a tax cut for all taxpayers.

Second, we are making permanent changes to the child tax credit. That 
is a $1,000 tax credit per child. This tax credit recognizes that a 
family's ability to pay taxes decreases as their family size increases. 
Unless we act, the child tax credit will fall to $500 per child in 
2010.

We are making permanent the marriage penalty relief. Couples should 
not pay more taxes because they are married. This relief makes sure a 
married couple filing a joint return has the same deductions and tax 
brackets as they would if they filed as individuals.

We are making permanent the changes to the dependent care credit. 
This credit is important to working families. It recognizes the 
increased cost of child care for thousands of Americans, especially 
child care for households where both parents work outside the home.

We are making permanent the changes to the adoption credit. Most 
adoptions cost more than $20,000. This provision offers a credit of 
$10,000 for those willing to give a child a home.

This amendment is also important because in it we believe it is 
important to pause and reflect on the sacrifices our men and women in 
uniform make for us every day.

Nearly 1.5 million U.S. service men and women have served in Iraq, 
Afghanistan or both. Nearly 30,000 troops have been wounded in action.

In September, I went to Iraq. I was impressed by what an amazing job 
our troops are doing. It is astounding. I met many Montanans from small 
towns such as Roundup and Townsend. I saw firsthand what a heavy burden 
our troops bear for all of us. They face hardships, they face danger, 
but they keep at it every day. Today, one small way to support them is 
to make the Tax Code a little more troop friendly. We can extend the 
special tax rules that make sense for our military that expire in 2007 
and 2008. We can also eliminate roadblocks in the current tax laws that 
present difficulties to veterans and servicemembers.

One problem this amendment would address is how the Tax Code treats 
survivors of our fallen heroes. The families of soldiers killed in the 
line of duty receive a death gratuity benefit of $100,000. But the Tax 
Code restricts survivors from putting this benefit in a Roth IRA. 
Today, we can make sure family members of fallen soldiers can take 
advantage of these tax-favored accounts. Another hazard in the tax laws 
impedes our disabled veterans. I am thinking of the time limit for 
filing for a tax refund. Most VA disability claims filed by veterans 
are quickly resolved, but many disability awards are delayed due to 
lost paperwork or the appeals of rejected claims.

Once a disabled vet finally gets a favorable award, the good news is 
the disability award is tax free, but the bad news is many of these 
disabled veterans get ambushed by a statute that bars them from filing 
a tax refund claim. Today we can give disabled veterans an extra year 
to claim their tax refunds.

Most troops doing the heavy lifting in combat situations are the 
lower ranking, lower income soldiers. Their income needs to count 
toward computing the earned-income tax credit, or EITC. Under current 
law, however, income earned by a soldier in a combat zone is exempt 
from income tax. This actually hurts low-income military personnel 
under the EITC.

The EITC combat pay exception allows combat zone pay to count as 
earned income for purposes of determining the credit. That way, more 
soldiers qualify for EITC. But this EITC combat pay exception expired 
at the end of 2007.

The EITC is a beneficial tax provision for working parents. It makes 
no sense to deny it to our troops. Today we can help to make combat 
duty income count for EITC purposes.

In this amendment, we are making permanent provisions to allow combat 
pay as earned income for purposes of the EITC. This amendment allows 
hard-working, low-income military personnel to get the full benefit of 
the EITC.

A soldier's rucksack is heavy enough as it is without loading it down 
with tax burdens. We owe the soldiers fighting in our Armed Forces an 
enormous debt of gratitude. This amendment is one small way we can 
salute our men and women in uniform for all they do.

Also in this amendment, we are giving some certainty to American 
families on the estate tax. Lowering the estate tax to 2009 levels is 
the least we can do as we move toward estate tax reform. This is the 
minimum that we can and will achieve.

And we are committed to exploring what more we can do. We are 
conducting thorough studies of the issue in hearings on that subject 
this week.

I plan to offer a second amendment that would dedicate enough 
additional funds to estate tax reform that we can achieve a $5 million 
exemption and a 35-percent rate.

Through these efforts, Congress will show that we support America's 
small businesses, ranchers, and farmers. Today's amendment also helps 
to address the housing crisis. Our amendment would allow middle-income 
taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions to nonetheless get a tax 
deduction for property taxes. That would give some relief to hard-
strapped homeowners.

Now, this amendment will not do everything. But we will do more. As


chairman of the Finance Committee, I am fully committed to tax reform. 
Tax reform can mean giving tax relief to American families and 
businesses through simplification and sound tax policy.

This year, the Finance Committee will do the spade work. We will hold 
hearings and prepare for the fundamental tax reform that we all want 
and expect next year, so when the next President takes office, he or 
she will make a major recommendation to the Congress on tax reform. We 
are holding hearings on that so we are ready.

But today the amendment we will offer shows our commitment to 
American families. American families earned their wages with the sweat 
of their brows. This amendment takes the surplus and gives tax relief 
to those hard-working families. It is no less than what they have 
earned.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.