# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `a7ccb98585f2af4464e49fa6b0638af3`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida â€” 8 September 2008`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, last week we heard chants, 
slogans--as if those slogans were going to solve the energy crisis--of 
drill, baby, drill. I think it is more appropriate to use the words of 
Tom Friedman: Innovate, baby, innovate. If we are going to solve this 
energy crisis, we have to have a comprehensive solution, and we need to 
unleash what America can do best, which is our intellectual capacity, 
our creativeness, our ingenuity. We need to unleash that capacity of 
America to get out and whip the energy crisis where we are addicted to 
oil. In fact, in this Senator's judgment, the single greatest threat to 
our security may well be our dependence on oil, not foreign oil but 
oil.

We all have been hearing from our constituents about what is the 
possible path for us to break this addiction, and we need to break the 
addiction and become energy independent in 10 years.

I caution against misguided rhetoric and hollow chants, as we have 
heard--of drill, baby, drill--as a seemingly swift and simple solution 
to high gas prices. It doesn't have any basis in reality. Remember the 
words of President Kennedy:




 Real solutions are not easily or cheaply obtained, nor are 


 they quickly and simply explained.


So as we approach it in a comprehensive way, it is not easily and 
simply explained. Common sense ought to tell us, since the United 
States has only 3 percent of the world's oil reserves, and yet uses 25 
percent of the world's oil production, we can't drill our way out of 
the problem. Indeed, there are 65 million acres leased by the oil 
companies from the Federal Government, not one of which has been 
drilled. In the Gulf of Mexico itself--where the so-called gang of 10 
that is now called the gang of 16 seems to want to pick on my State of 
Florida and wants to drill all the way up to within 50 miles of the 
coast--there are 32 million acres under lease by the oil companies, and 
not one of those acres has been drilled. Yet they are leased from the 
Federal Government. As a matter of fact, that includes 8.3 million 
acres on which this Senator worked a compromise to try to solve this 
problem and got it into law 2 years ago, 8.3 million new acres kept 
away from the military mission line where we do our testing and 
training off of Florida, kept away from the shores of Florida. Not 1 
acre of that 8.3 million has been drilled since it was offered for 
lease.

More leasing would not stabilize Iraq or guarantee Saudi Arabia's 
long-term friendship, nor would it end the unregulated speculation that 
drove oil prices to over $147 a barrel and pushed pump prices to more 
than $4 a gallon. More leasing of Federal lands will only delay 
America's freedom from oil. If we do drill, baby, drill, we will dirty 
and destroy Florida's economy. Even worse, if this so-called gang of 16 
puts it all the way up to 50 miles off of Florida, it will cut the 
heart and lungs out of the last area of unfettered military training 
for the U.S. military, the largest testing and training for the U.S. 
military in the world, which is the range in the Gulf of Mexico, all 
off of the coast of Florida.

No matter what anybody says, when the United States only has 3 
percent of the world's oil reserves but uses one-fourth of the world's 
oil supply, drill, baby, drill is not going to work.

Now, that is what this Senator has been saying for years. By the way, 
now even a Texas oilman is saying the same thing. T. Boone Pickens has 
all of these commercial ads on TV, and he says we cannot drill our way 
out of this problem.

As a matter of fact, the White House report from 5 months ago that I 
have shared with the Senate several times says the same thing: That 
drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf of the United States will not 
change the price of gasoline one whit until the year 2030.

So what do we do? Well, for the short term, we need to keep bringing 
gas prices down by not wasting so much oil and by banning the greedy 
speculation on the part of the oil traders and the profiteers. We have 
a Senate investigation that has reported that there is lax Federal 
oversight of these traders, and that is as a result of a loophole that 
was slipped in in the dead of night in December just before Christmas 
in the year 2000 at the behest of the infamous Enron Corporation. BP, 
Amoco, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley also were instrumental in 
getting this so-called Enron loophole through Congress. Afterward, the 
price of both oil and natural gas skyrocketed, despite reports that oil 
supplies were mostly adequate.

Links between soaring oil prices and vast sums of money flowing into 
these unregulated commodities have been uncovered by the Senate 
Commerce Committee and the Homeland Security Committee. As a matter of 
fact, just last week, a report by the Washington Post pointed out, 
unbelievably, that of all the futures contracts for the oil 
commodities, 81 percent of all that trading was done by people who do 
not intend to use that oil. If true, done by the speculators: 81 
percent.

We have had testimony in Congress by an ExxonMobil executive. We have 
had testimony from a Shell Oil Company executive who said that under 
normal supply and demand oil ought to be at $55 a barrel.

But by any measure, this Enron loophole, which exempts the traders of 
energy contracts from Federal oversight, was an ill-conceived public 
policy. That is why a number of us have filed legislation to fully 
close that loophole and to stop the unchecked runups in


speculation of crude oil and gasoline prices.

Now, what do I mean by ''unregulated futures commodities markets''? I 
mean that a governmental entity, if it were regulated, would require 
them to put a substantial downpayment on the contract for future oil--
to put their money where their mouth is--or a regulated market would be 
that they would require the bidder for that future oil contract to be 
somebody who was going to use the oil instead of just speculating on 
the price and running up the price. So if we do not do something about 
speculation, they can drive that up again, and we have to fully close 
that loophole.

About 50 percent of the oil we use goes into our cars and trucks. So 
it should not take a rocket scientist to realize this ought to be where 
we ought to focus. It took us in the Congress more than 30 years to 
raise mileage standards to a paltry 35 miles per gallon, to be phased 
in over the next 15 years--35 miles a gallon. It was 25 miles a gallon 
back in the 1980s. But, oh, by the way, that exempted light trucks and 
SUVs. It is interesting that American car manufacturers sell cars in 
Europe and the cars over there already get 43 miles a gallon. Japan is 
approaching 50 miles per gallon. In other words, we are wasting 
billions of gallons of oil here at home. To stop it, we must enact 
serious conservation measures, such as 40 miles per gallon for our 
vehicles. We must provide bigger tax incentives for people to buy 
hybrid cars and plug-in hybrids.

Now, what I have shared with you are not simple chants, simple 
slogans. They are real solutions for the short term. But for the long 
term, we need to unleash that American ingenuity and to rapidly build 
cars that run on batteries or hydrogen, not petroleum. We need to 
develop alternative fuels such as ethanol from things we do not eat.

Our Government, led by the next President, must enact a national 
energy program to transition us from petroleum to alternative and 
synthetic fuels. It needs to be leadership by the next President in the 
memory of President Kennedy, when we had only flown Alan Shepard in 
suborbit, and President Kennedy had the vision and said: This Nation is 
going to go to the Moon and back in 9 years. That is the kind of 
leadership we need, and we now have to act with the same urgency.

So we are going to have to pay attention to how we power our homes 
and industry. We are going to need to develop solar, wind, and thermal 
energy and safer nuclear power. We have a lot of innovative work.

I see some colleagues are in the Chamber who wish to speak, and I 
will conclude.

Let me say that I want everybody to know, including the Senator who 
is just walking onto the floor, this Senator is not going to allow 
Florida to be a sacrificial lamb for whatever is struck as an energy 
compromise, nor is this Senator, who has been protecting the interests 
of the U.S. Department of Defense for 25 years, ever since I was a 
young Congressman representing the east coast of Florida, going to 
allow drilling to cut the heart and the lungs out of the military 
mission area, which is our largest testing and training area, nor to 
threaten the interests of the State of Florida, by people succumbing to 
the simple slogan of ''drill, baby, drill'' when it ought to be 
''innovate, baby, innovate.''

Mr. President, I yield the floor.