---
---

# None
## `a7e0b32515a5029ca00fb6c50afa29b9`
`Mr. KAGEN — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. KAGEN. Most people I know in Wisconsin are hardworking and they 
are just trying to get through the day, just like us. We are trying to 
get through the day and get our rest in. But this is a time for our 
country to raise up and ask questions, to find out about the conscience 
of America, and really ask the question about what kind of Nation we 
are and in which direction we are going to turn.

If we stay on this divisive path, this path of partisan politics, we 
are not going to be able to solve any of these complex problems we 
face, whether it is war and peace or health and disease. If we stay on 
the path that the President has put us on with his veto, it is an 
expensive path. He is asking our children and their caregivers and 
parents to take them to the emergency room and not to their doctor. The 
President is asking us to take a path not towards prevention, to 
prevent illness and to prevent the big bill that is coming, but he is 
taking us down the road that leads to an end we don't want to be on. 
It's a path we cannot afford to take. We have taken a path, a wrong 
path, that led us into Iraq. It may lead us into a recession yet to 
come that no American citizen can afford. It will at some point in time 
raise our taxes, depreciate the value of our dollar and create 
inflation in this country because we haven't paid for a dime of our 
involvement in Iraq yet. We borrowed the money from China, and it is 
our next generation, this generation of children that won't be healthy, 
that won't be working.

We understand it makes sense. If you are working, you earn money and 
you pay taxes. We can lower people's taxes by having a healthy 
generation of children. It is just that simple. If our Republican 
colleagues would understand, if it is just about money, we are going to 
save you money. Give our children, the children who are most in need, 
an opportunity to see their physicians and their nurse practitioners. 
Give them an opportunity to be healthy. They will get the education 
they need, and we will pay less in taxes and we will all be better off 
for it.

What can people do? The first thing they have to do is believe. 
People must truly believe there is hope. I do believe our class, our 
class of 2006 is America's hope. It is America's hope for a different 
direction, a positive change and a new direction. I think by our being 
here tonight, by staying overtime and having this conversation with one 
another, hopefully the American people are listening to it and they 
will begin to have faith and hope that there is going to be a positive 
change.

And I hope that the President is listening, if not to us, he should 
listen to the American people. I will share with you one other 
constituent's thoughts. Donna Killian: ''Our country desperately needs 
health care reform. In this very wealthy country, there should be no 
one denied good health care because of a lack of insurance or income. 
I, myself, am disabled and 54 years old. I am disabled due to 
excruciating, chronic pain all over my body. If something happened to 
my husband, then I would be uninsurable.''

What kind of Nation are we when Donna has to be concerned about this, 
when every single American understands they could be next? Lose their 
insurance, get sick, and lose your house.

As I stand here tonight, as my colleagues know, I respectfully 
declined my health care coverage when I came here. I wanted to make a 
statement that until each and every American has that same opportunity 
to make a selection of health care coverage, I didn't feel it was right 
for me to accept something that everyone back home was not also 
offered.


I think this Congress has to consider health care a crisis. It is a 
national nightmare. We should consider health care access more like 
hunger. If every Member of Congress was hungry, we would solve this 
problem in a week. If every single Member of Congress had no coverage, 
with the bills you can get in the emergency room or if you get cancer, 
we would solve this problem in several weeks.

Again, I come back to believing in hope. I do believe that we will 
have an opportunity to take this Nation in a different direction, a 
positive change. My only hope is that it happens sooner than later. But 
mark my words, it may not occur until we paint the White House door a 
different color, from red to blue.