---
---

# VETERANS' BENEFITS ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `a7f40defabed2ba95a9eb3303ceed35d`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 24 April 2008`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, the Veterans' Benefit Enhancement Act we 
are debating contains a number of important benefits to provide for our 
veterans. It would expand eligibility for traumatic injury insurance, 
provide job training, and help disabled veterans make their homes more 
accessible. That is all worthy.

There is also another issue. In 1941, President Roosevelt called on 
the people of the Philippines to fight for their freedom and ours, and 
thousands of brave Filipinos answered the call. They carried out 
operations to liberate their homeland and joined us in support of our 
efforts in the Pacific theater. They fought and died at Corregidor, 
they were with us on the beaches of Bataan, and in the death marches. 
They were there when General MacArthur promised he would return, they 
fought using guerrilla tactics to tie down the Japanese, and they 
fought under General MacArthur when he came back and said, ''I have 
returned.''

Throughout the war, Filipino soldiers fought under the American flag, 
serving with valor, strength, and dignity. President Roosevelt 
guaranteed those brave soldiers that the United States would come to 
their aid in times of peace, just as they had come to our aid during 
times of war.

He guaranteed them equal veterans' benefits--a fair promise, 
considering their service and considering the law of the land, as they 
were full members of the U.S. military.

But in 1946 in one of the most misguided legislative actions at the 
time, Congress took away the benefits that the President of the United 
States had promised them, benefits they had rightfully earned.

Of the approximately 250,000 Filipino veterans who fought for us in 
America, only 18,000 are still alive today. Many of them are searching 
for ways to pay for health care and struggling in ways they never 
should. These veterans have more yesterdays than tomorrows. They are 
well into their eighties, and in terms of our budget, what this bill 
would cost over the next 10 years we are spending in Iraq every 18 
hours. Those who say it will cost too much are the same voices who said 
it would cost too much to do what Democrats did under the leadership of 
Senator Akaka when, for the first time, we fully funded the veterans 
independent budget.

When we bring this bill to a vote, we will be answering a very simple 
but powerful question: Does our Nation keep its promises? We need to 
right an injustice of the past and show our allies, for future purposes 
as well, when we tell people to join us in our fight against terrorism, 
to join us in our fight against other challenges in the world, that 
America honors its obligations to those who fight for the values and 
principles we collectively share.

This is a critical time to send a message to friends of freedom 
across the world that we remember our allies, and we pay our debts.

Our distinguished colleagues in this Senate who have served during 
World War II have said this is not simply a question of budget, this is 
a question of honor. These individuals of honor put their lives on the 
line for our Nation, and now the honor of our Nation is on the line.

Let's just show a fraction of the bravery they did and vote to 
restore to them what they were promised, what was the law, and what 
they rightfully earned.

Now, like lawyers, there are some who are picking on points here or 
there to build a case against these benefits. In my mind it is a case 
made of sand. Let's vote to bring an honorable ending to this story and 
in however small a way let us pledge now to give them dignity in the 
twilight of their lives.

I urge my colleagues to support Senator Akaka's bill as it is to be 
able to keep our word in the world.

Mr. President, to reiterate, the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act 
that we are debating contains a number of important measures to provide 
for our veterans. It would expand eligibility for traumatic injury 
insurance, provide job training, help disabled veterans make their 
homes more accessible. And that is all worthy. But there is also 
another issue.

In 1941, President Roosevelt called on the people of the Philippines 
to fight for their freedom and ours, and thousands of brave Filipinos 
answered the call. They carried out operations to liberate their 
homeland, and joined us in support of our efforts in the Pacific 
Theater. They fought and died at Corregidor. They were with us on the 
beaches at Bataan, and in the death marches. They were there when 
General MacArthur promised he would return, they fought using guerilla 
tactics to tie down the Japanese, and they fought under General 
MacArthur when he came back and said, ''I have returned.''

Throughout the war, Filipino soldiers fought under the American flag, 
serving with valor, strength, and dignity. President Roosevelt 
guaranteed those brave soldiers that the United States would come to 
their aid in times of peace just as they had come to our aid during 
times of war. He guaranteed them equal veterans' benefits--a fair 
promise, considering their service, and considering the law of the 
land, as they were full members of the U.S. military.

But in 1946, in one of the most misguided legislative actions of the 
time, Congress took away the benefits that the President of the United 
States had promised them--benefits they had rightfully earned. Of the 
approximately 250,000 Filipino veterans who fought for us in America, 
only about 18,000 are still alive today. Many of them are searching for 
ways to pay for health care, and are struggling in ways they never 
should.

These veterans have more yesterdays than tomorrows. They are all well 
into their eighties. In terms of our budget, what this bill would cost 
over the course of 10 years, we are spending in Iraq every 18 hours.

So those who say it costs too much are the same voices who said that 
it would cost too much to do what Democrats did under the leadership of 
Senator Akaka, when for the first time we fully funded the veterans 
independent budget. When we bring this bill to a vote, we will be 
answering a very simple but powerful question: Does our Nation keep its 
promises?

We need to right an injustice of the past and show our allies for 
future purposes as well; when we tell people join us in our fight 
against terrorism, join us in our fight against other challenges in the 
world that America honors its obligation to those who fight for the 
values and our principles that we collectively share. This is a 
critical time to send a message to friends of freedom across the world: 
we remember our allies and we pay our debts.

Our distinguished colleagues in the Senate who have served during 
World


War II have said, this is not simply a question of budget. This is a 
question of honor. These individuals of honor put their lives on the 
line for our Nation, and now the honor of our Nation is on the line. 
Let us show them just a fraction of the bravery they did, and vote to 
restore them what they were promised, what was the law and what they 
rightfully earned.

Now, like lawyers there are some who are picking on points here and 
there to build a case against these benefits, in my mind is a case made 
of sand. Let us vote to bring an honorable ending to this story and in 
however small a way, let us pledge now to give them dignity in the 
twilight of their life. I really urge my colleagues to support Senator 
Akaka's bill as it is, and be able to keep our word in the world.

If I have any remaining time, I yield it back to Senator Akaka.