# IN SUPPORT OF THE CONTINUING RESOLUTION'S PASSAGE
## `a7f79a52b9b26201f7055cd90e5c6328`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 31 January 2007`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I think it is important for us 
to reflect on the last couple of hours of debate, and I call it fixing 
of the fiscal calamity that occurred over the last year when this body 
and the majority of my friends on the other side of the aisle failed to 
complete our funding responsibilities.

Today, we passed a vigorous CR, and I think it should not be 
interpreted as a negative, but we should look at the positives that we 
will be able to provide, if you will, the continuing of funding and get 
immediately into, one, the emergency supplemental but also the 
appropriations process. $3.6 billion now goes extra to our veterans, 
many of them returning from Iraq for their health care.

The change in the section 8 for many that are not being housed 
because of a faulty formula, we now can provide housing for many in our 
community. And, yes, an enhanced funding for scientific research. The 
ability for our agencies to reprogram their dollars. Many of us will be 
working, for instance in my district, I will be working to ensure the 
funding of the Texas Southern University Laboratory School through the 
Department of Housing; and, yes, we will be working to get NASA funding 
by redeploying or to redistribute those funds.

This is a good CR. The agencies can work with it. Make sure the 
agencies work right on behalf of the American people.
