---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `a7fb92f40c50e7fed473be2e623e8e29`
`Mr. SPECTER — 23 October 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to vote to cut off 
debate--that is, to invoke cloture--on the pending nomination of Judge 
Leslie H. Southwick for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit 
and then to vote to confirm him.

Judge Southwick comes to this nomination with an outstanding record. 
He received his bachelor's degree cum laude from Rice University and a 
J.D. from the University of Texas law school in 1975.

He was a law clerk for Judge John Onion, Jr., of the Texas Court of 
Criminal Appeals. He was a law clerk for Judge Charles Clark of the 
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. He practiced law from 1977 through 
1989. He was a Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the U.S. 
Department of Justice, Civil Division, from 1989 to 1993. He has been a 
judge on the Mississippi Court of Appeals, which is an intermediate 
court, for some 12 years.

Judge Southwick has participated in about 6,000 cases and has 
personally authored some 985 opinions.

In a very remarkable move, when Judge Southwick was 53 years old--he 
had been in the Army Reserve since he was 42, when he obtained an age 
waiver in order to join the Army Reserve--and in the year 2003, when he 
was 53 years old, he volunteered to transfer to a line combat unit. He 
was deployed to Iraq, serving as a staff judge advocate in forward 
operating bases near Najaf.

Major General Harold Cross, Judge Southwick's commanding officer, 
said:




 This was a courageous move; as it was widely known at the 


 time that the 155th was nearly certain to mobilize for 


 overseas duty in the near future.


Judge Southwick was voted out of the Judiciary Committee on August 2 
of this year on a bipartisan basis with a favorable recommendation.

Judge Southwick's critics have pointed to only two cases--where he 
was in a concurrence and did not write the opinions. One case involved 
the issue of the punishment for someone in Civil Service who used a 
very derogatory racial term. When that case was reviewed, it was 
decided that since the individual had made only an isolated remark, and 
immediately apologized, that it would be excessive to fire that person 
but that the penalty should be something less. That case was reviewed 
by the Mississippi Court of Appeals on a very constricted standard as 
to whether the finding was arbitrary and capricious--which is a very 
high standard--and that applicable standard determined that firing was 
excessive.

The case then went to the Supreme Court of Mississippi, and it agreed 
with the appellate court's conclusion that the dismissal was 
unwarranted. In this case they said:




 [w]e find that the harsh penalty of dismissal . . . from 


 her employment is not warranted under the circumstances.


Now, I emphasize that in both of these cases, Judge Southwick did not 
write the opinions but only concurred in the result. While some might 
say it would have been preferable to take a different position, in the 
context of deciding some 6,000 cases and having written some 985 
opinions, that is very little to pick at.

The second case was a matter where the issue of custody came up. 
After an extensive hearing, the trial judge awarded custody to the 
father, and there was a reference to the fact that the mother was a 
lesbian. Here again, the references in the opinion--again, not written 
by Judge Southwick--might have been somewhat more sensitive. In the 
overall context, it is hardly the basis for denying confirmation to 
Judge Southwick.

I met with Judge Southwick at length, had a long talk with him about 
his approach to the judiciary, about his legal background. He is a very 
mild-mannered, very temperate man, who on the credentials, in black and 
white, has an outstanding record and in person was very impressive.

It is worth noting that a number of former African-American clerks 
have spoken out in solid support of Judge Southwick.

La'Verne Edney, a distinguished African-American woman who is a 
partner at a prominent Jackson, MS, law firm and a member of the 
Magnolia Bar Association, the Mississippi Women Lawyers' Association, 
and a member of the Mississippi Task Force for Gender Fairness, stated 
this:




 When I finished law school . . . I believed that my chances 


 for landing a clerkship were slim because there was only one 


 African-American Court of Appeals judge on the bench at the 


 time and there were very few Caucasian judges during the 


 history of the Mississippi Supreme Court or the Court of 


 Appeals . . . who had ever hired African-American law clerks. 


 . . .While Judge Southwick had many applicants to choose 


 from, he saw that I was qualified for the position and 


 granted me the opportunity.


As a clerk, Ms. Edney observed:




 It did not matter the parties' affiliation, color or 


 stature--what mattered was what the law said and Judge 


 Southwick worked very hard to apply it fairly.


Patrick Beasley, a practicing attorney in Jackson, MS, who also is 
African American, endorsed Judge Southwick for his quality of being 
fair to minorities. Mr. Beasley wrote:




 I speak from personal experience that Leslie Southwick is a 


 good man who has been kind to me for no ulterior reason. I am 


 not from an affluent family and have no political ties. While 


 I graduated in the top third of my law school class, there 


 were many individuals in my class with higher grade point 


 averages and with family ''pedigrees'' to match. Yet, despite 


 all of the typical requirements for the clerkship that I 


 lacked, Judge Southwick gave me an opportunity. Despite 


 [those who criticize him], Judge Southwick is a fair man and 


 this is one of the qualities that makes him an excellent 


 choice for the Fifth Circuit. . . .


Judge Southwick has ruled numerous times in favor of workers, the so-
called little guy.

For example, in Sherwin Williams v. Brown, Judge Southwick held that 
a 45-year-old carpet layer was permanently and totally industrially 
disabled due to an onsite injury and that the carpet layer made 
reasonable efforts to obtain other employment.

In United Methodist Senior Services v. Ice, Judge Southwick affirmed 
the award of workers' compensation benefits to a woman who hurt her 
back while working as a certified nursing assistant, despite her first 
employer's claim that she exacerbated the injury during her subsequent 
employment.

In Kitchens v. Jerry Vowell Logging, Judge Southwick reversed the 
Workers' Compensation Commission's decision that a truck driver from a 
logging company did not suffer a permanent loss of wage earning 
capacity and remanded the case for further consideration.

In McCarty Farms, Inc. v. Caprice Banks, Judge Southwick concurred 
with an opinion affirming the Workers' Compensation Commission's award 
of permanent partial disability benefits for a woman who experienced a 
70-percent industrial disability to her right arm and a 30-percent loss 
to her left.

Indeed, contrary to some suggestions, Judge Southwick has spoken out 
in dissent in favor of workers' rights.



In Total Transportation Inc. v. Shores, Judge Southwick joined with 
three other dissenters in a 6-to-4 decision, which would have upheld an 
award of workers' compensation benefits for a truck driver's widow, 
while the majority ruled in favor of the employer.

In Burleson v. Hancock County Sheriff's Department--a 6-to-3 
decision--Judge Southwick wrote a dissent in which he argued that a 
public employee was improperly terminated without sufficient due 
process under the U.S. Constitution, while the majority ruled in favor 
of the employer.

Judge Southwick has ruled in favor of tort victims and against 
businesses in many cases. Illustrative are Ducksworth v. Wal-Mart 
Stores, Breland v. Gulfside Casino Partnership, Martin v. BP 
Exploration & Oil, and Wilkins v. Bloodsaw.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a description of these 
cases be printed in the Record.