---
---

# SCHEDULE
## `a7fc338735b720ae032d355c337795f1`
`Mr. REID — 27 June 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, this morning we will resume consideration of 
S. 1639, the immigration legislation. As I said yesterday, cloture was 
filed on the bill. Any germane first-degree amendments need to be filed 
today by 1 p.m.

Also, another reminder to Members about the briefing by Admiral 
McConnell which will take place in S-407 and will run until 11:30 this 
morning. I will say to everyone, we could have votes during that period 
of time. I announced that last night. That is very possible, that we 
will have votes on this immigration bill. We are under postcloture 
rules. We are going to finish this legislation this week. And we very 
much appreciate the admiral coming down here, but, of course, he did 
not know what our schedule would be. But others may be inconvenienced 
because there very well could be votes.

Let me say a couple of things before we get to immigration. I would 
notify the two managers that I may have to have a short quorum call 
because there are some changes they are making on procedural matters. I 
think we need a couple of minutes to get that straightened out.

I sought yesterday to move to S. 1, the ethics and lobbying reform 
bill. There was a reason the bill came first. From the first day, we 
knew that all progress would depend on renewing the peoples' faith in 
the integrity of this institution, the Congress. This legislation which 
passed here in the Senate does just that: It prohibits lobbyists and 
those who hire lobbyists from giving gifts to lawmakers and staff; it 
prevents corporations and lobbyists from paying for questionable travel 
for Members and staff; it requires Senators to pay fair market value 
for chartered flights, putting an end to abuses of corporate travel; 
slows the revolving door by extending the ban on lobbying by former 
Members of Congress and senior staffers; prevents Senators from even 
negotiating for a job as a lobbyist until their successor has been 
elected; puts an end to the pay-to-play schemes that became notorious 
around here; it shines the light of day on lobbying activities by 
vastly increasing disclosure requirements; requires the Senate disclose 
all earmarks--this is the first time ever. We passed the ethics and 
lobbying reform bill here with overwhelming support from Senators on 
both sides of the aisle. The House did the same thing.

Yesterday, I asked consent to send our legislation to conference. The 
Republicans objected. I think it is interesting that on the same day 
this objection took place preventing us from moving forward to complete 
this legislation, there was yet another sign of how desperately needed 
this reform is. Yesterday, Stephen Griles, President Bush's former 
Interior Deputy Secretary, the No. 2 in charge, was sent to prison and 
fined for his corruption. This sentence came after Griles admitted to 
obstructing the investigation of the Senate Committee on Indian 
Affairs. Now Mr. Griles will face justice for his contribution to 
disintegrating the peoples' trust in their Government. But now we have 
a chance to look forward, to stop the Jack Abramoffs, the


Safavians, the Neys and others and the Stephen Griles of the future 
before they have a chance to corrupt our system even more, to deliver 
to the American people a government as good and as honest as the people 
it represents.

I will come, before the day is out, and ask once again unanimous 
consent to appoint conferees in this legislation. The eyes of the 
country are upon us as to what we are going to do with ethics reform 
and lobbying reform in this Congress. Are we going to be prevented from 
completing this legislation? The answer is up to the minority, the 
Republicans.


Yesterday, I came to the floor to express appreciation to Richard 
Lugar, the senior Senator from the State of Indiana, former chairman 
and current ranking member of the Foreign Relations Committee, for his 
comments on the tragic war in Iraq.

I have said on previous occasions that Democrats are virtually 
unanimous in our opposition to the war and united in our efforts to 
change course. But we face an obstinate President who refuses to hear 
the call of the American people. We face a Republican minority that has 
largely stood by his side as conditions in Iraq have deteriorated, and 
we have more than 3,500 dead Americans. I understand those who are 
wounded are approaching 30,000, a third of them grievously wounded.

Opposing the President of one's own party, especially on a war, is no 
small thing. And now Senator George Voinovich, another key Republican 
on the Foreign Relations Committee, has stepped forward along with 
Senator Lugar to question what is going on in Iraq. In a letter to 
President Bush, Senator Voinovich urges the President to finally wake 
up to the truth so many of us already know: This war cannot be won 
militarily, can only be won politically, diplomatically, and 
economically. Senator John Warner said yesterday that he expects more 
Republicans to join our call for a responsible change of course.

When this war finally ends--and we are in the fifth year of this war, 
and it will end--this last period of time where we have had Lugar, 
Voinovich, and Warner speak out about the present situation in Iraq 
could be the turning point. This could be the moment when we break down 
the aisle that separates the two parties on Iraq.

So I say to my Republican colleagues who continue to follow President 
Bush's lead: Join with us. When I say ''us,'' we now have at least five 
Republicans that I know of, and I would be happy to run through the 
names: Hagel, Smith, Voinovich, Lugar, and Warner have already spoken 
out. Join with us. We can extricate our troops from the firing line of 
another country's civil war. We can begin to rebuild our battered 
military so they can focus on the real threats we face around the 
world.

Remember what the National Council of Mayors did yesterday. They also 
said, and voted by a majority, the war should end as soon as possible.

The first step has been taken by my Republican colleagues. We need 
more help. Now we need to put their brave words in action by working 
together to bring home our brave troops and deliver the responsible end 
to the war that the American people demand and deserve.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.