# RECOGNIZING THE STRONG SECURITY ALLIANCE BETWEEN JAPAN AND THE UNITED  STATES
## `a805e220272da5753e9a3d285415bd5b`
`Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA — 5 September 2007`

---


Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
proposed bill and yield myself such time as I may consume.

Again, I want to express my appreciation to the leadership of the 
House Foreign Affairs Committee, the distinguished chairman, the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos), and our distinguished ranking 
member, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen from Florida, for their support of this 
proposed bill.

And let me also thank our distinguished colleague from the great 
State of New Jersey, a senior member of the Armed Services Committee as 
well as the Natural Resources Committee, my good friend, Mr. Saxton, 
for his sponsorship of this resolution.

When World War II came to a close, the relationship between the 
United States and Japan could not have been worse. Both sides sustained 
heavy human losses at the hands of the other's military, but together, 
starting in the late 1940s, the United States and the Japanese people 
rebuilt a war-torn Japanese nation brick by brick, industry by 
industry. The alliance between the United States and Japan has grown 
steadily since then, and now it could hardly be stronger.

Japan today is one of our closest allies in the Asia-Pacific region. 
The strong and enduring partnership we developed when that war 
thankfully came to an end bridges economic, military and political 
realms. Our military alliance helped prevent another world conflict 
during the Cold War, and our two nations jointly held fast to the


ideas of democracy and freedom in the face of the menacing communist 
threat in this Asian region.

Today, the U.S. military security alliance with Japan is not only 
just the backbone of the relationship between our two great nations, 
but it is the bedrock of peace and security throughout the Asia-Pacific 
region.

Upon this foundation, we continue to work together to advance our 
shared values. We jointly promote open markets, open societies, and 
open and transparent governments in Asia and around the world. Japan's 
economic success is a beacon and an example to the entire planet, now 
being the second most powerful economy in the whole world. We also 
tackle some of the most difficult challenges of our time, working 
together in the crucial Six-Party Talks to denuclearize North Korea and 
stabilize Northeast Asia.

Japan is a reliable and generous friend, quick to assist the United 
States in our times of need. Japan has provided important logistical 
support for the current war in Iraq and is on the front lines of the 
international efforts to combat terrorism by providing support to 
operations in Afghanistan.

As strong as our relationship is now, we look forward to an even 
stronger partnership in the future. Our two countries are brought 
together by shared interests and shared values, and we are bound 
together by mutual respect and friendship.

This resolution celebrates this friendship by recognizing the strong 
security alliance between Japan and the United States, as well as 
Japan's critical role in enhancing stability in the Asia-Pacific 
region.

Today, the House reaffirms that we value highly our alliance with the 
great nation of Japan and believe this partnership will continue 
indefinitely into the future.

Madam Speaker, I strongly support this resolution, and urge my 
colleagues to support it as well.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.