---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED PROGRAMS  APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a816d2f7e7c1dffef65287b242f6b7dd`
`Mr. INOUYE — 29 September 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, if I may again repeat, in June of this 
year, 9 of the 11 subcommittees of the Appropriations Committee passed 
their bills in the full committee and reported to the desk. They are 
all at the desk. But somebody held it up, and I can assure you none of 
us held it up.

I rise to speak against the amendment just submitted by Senator 
DeMint, which would extend the CR from the current expiration date of 
December 3 to February 4 of next year.

I am certain most of my colleagues are aware that the government 
frequently operates under a short-term continuing resolution, not 
because they like to do it but because it takes time. It is not the 
most efficient way to operate. I agree with that. But it is frequently 
necessary as we resolve the differences over spending levels.

While our agencies decry living under the CR--and I have said many 
times that this is not the way to run our government--I believe these 
agencies have learned to operate in the short term, and I emphasize the 
two words ''short term.'' This CR was crafted with a very narrow focus 
in the expectation that it would only last 2 months. It was agreed upon 
by both leaders, the majority and minority leaders.

The minimal authorization extensions were included in a bipartisan 
attempt to keep this bill as clean as possible. Many requested 
anomalies were excluded because it was clear the CR would expire on 
December 3. Hopefully, the Congress will have concluded its work by 
that date. If not, a new CR will be required, and I can assure my 
colleagues that it will be significantly longer than this bill, with 
many more anomalies to cover exceptions that must be continued if this 
CR is extended.

A short-term CR is not efficient, as I have said before, but it is 
manageable. However, each week we go beyond that period, we further 
damage the ability of the government to function effectively. For 
example, contract awards can be delayed a month or two but not for 4 
months.

The Appropriations Committee has worked very hard. We have held many 
hearings, heard from hundreds of witnesses--not just the administration 
but opposition witnesses--and in a truly bipartisan fashion come to an 
agreement on the CR we have before us. A large part of that effort was 
based on the good-faith assumption that once we agreed on an end date--
in this case, December 3--Members and staff would use that date to 
properly identify programs that needed adjustments in order to function 
as they were intended.

If we accept this amendment and arbitrarily change the end date to 
February 4 of next year, we will ensure that the exact opposite will 
happen: The Government will not function as it should. Let me offer a 
few specific examples.

As chairman of the Defense Subcommittee, I know there are programs 
essential to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that would be disrupted 
if the Senate were to arbitrarily change the end date of the CR. To say 
that our troops deserve better is an understatement of the highest 
order. As a specific example, the Defense Subcommittee carefully 
reviewed the plans of the Department of Defense and the Department of 
State for the authorities under the Pakistan counterinsurgency fund. 
This authority allows the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of 
the Secretary of State, to provide funding for initiatives to reduce 
the terrorist presence in Pakistan. The subcommittee concluded that a 
2-month delay would have minimal negative impact. However, stretching 
beyond 2 months could seriously erode our counterinsurgency efforts in 
Pakistan.

As my colleagues know, new starts are prohibited under CRs, so a CR 
through February 4 would restrict the DOD from proceeding with any new 
military construction projects during the first third of the fiscal 
year. Losing 4 months of the year before DOD can begin to implement its 
2011 construction program puts the timely execution of the entire 
program at risk. Fifty percent of the requested funding is anticipated 
to be awarded by the end of February 2011.

A longer term CR would result in untimely delays for implementing 
certain farm bill programs, as requested by the Office of Management 
and Budget. The delay would present shortfalls in funding for food and 
drug safety approval programs at the Food Safety and Inspection Service 
and the Food and Drug Administration due to a shortfall in the budget 
authority.



A longer term CR would result in untimely delays for implementing 
certain farm bill programs, as requested by OMB. The delay would 
present shortfalls in funding for food and drug safety and approval 
programs at the Food Safety and Inspection Service and Food and Drug 
Administration due to a shortfall in new budget authority. In addition, 
if the child nutrition reauthorization is not approved, a further 
delayed CR will result in reduced food services for children.

As another example, the administration sought to extend a highway 
provision of interest to Maine and Vermont but since it does not expire 
until December 17, it was not necessary to include in this CR. But if 
the CR does not expire until February, that provision is needed.

A final example. The delays that would result from this amendment 
would stall the implementation of all planned new law enforcement 
initiatives at the Justice Department, including $366 million in new 
national security spending intended to improve the FBI's cyber 
security, WMD and counterterrorism capabilities and to assist in the 
litigation of intelligence and terrorism cases.

This CR was negotiated in good faith, it has bipartisan support, and 
it ensures the government will continue to operate in good order until 
December 3. This amendment violates all three of those tenets. 
Arbitrarily changing the end date violates our good faith, is highly 
partisan, and ensures that the government will not function as it 
should.

For all of these reasons I urge my colleagues to vote ''no''.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum and ask that the 
time be divided equally.