---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `a817b8c3b6a0511d97ce2d9614a8041c`
`Mr. NELSON of Florida — 13 July 2007`

---


Mr. NELSON of Florida. I believed the marines were making progress. 
But there you had just Sunnis and you had al-Qaida that was trying to 
undermine the Sunni leadership, and the marines working with the Sunnis 
were having some effect. That is the part of the surge I supported. I 
did not support the surge going into Baghdad in the middle of the 
crossfire of a civil war.

The President ignored the findings and the warnings of the Iraq Study 
Group which recommended a comprehensive strategy for changing the 
course in Iraq.

So what has happened? In the last 6 months, we have spent more than 
$60 billion and we have lost another 600 American lives and many more 
have suffered grievous injuries. Despite those losses, the sectarian 
violence has only increased.

Yesterday, the President reported that the Iraqi Government has 
failed to meet many of the benchmarks that we laid out earlier this 
year. Only the Iraqis can make the compromises necessary to end this 
war. Our continued open-ended presence has provided them with no 
incentive to do so. We cannot and we should not be in the middle of 
their civil war.

What we need is a diplomatic solution with an aggressive, diplomatic 
effort--which was argued by the Iraq Study Group.

We also need a political solution instead of a military solution. The 
possible solution that I am drawn to is the one put forth by Senator 
Biden. Under the Iraqi Constitution, which is a federal form of 
government, it will allow autonomy of various regions or states that 
can provide for their own governance along with a National Government 
that will allocate the oil revenues according to the population.

But still, the President has not changed course in Iraq, despite the 
facts on the ground and the overwhelming desire of the American people.

So, with a heavy heart, it brings me today to say that we must by law 
insist that he begin the reduction of the forces in Iraq and the 
transition of our mission there. Along with others, I do not reach this 
conclusion lightly nor with any pleasure. I am extremely concerned by 
the great toll that this war has taken on our Armed Forces and our 
military families across this Nation, with the thousands killed and 
many more injured.

I am very concerned about the lack of training and the lack of time 
for recuperation for our troops, especially the National Guard and the 
Reserves. I am very close to the Florida National Guard.

I am very concerned about the situation in Iraq, that it keeps 
escalating, the violence, especially among Iraqis, and the lack of 
their production of an economic lifeline by the production of their 
oil. It is being lost to theft and to sabotage. They can't get their 
arms around it.

And I am very concerned about the plight of the Iraqi people, 
including now more than 2 million refugees.

I am concerned about the possibility of greater regional violence and 
instability. I am concerned about the failure of the Maliki government, 
the failure of the government in and of itself, but especially, as we 
see now, the failure of the government to lead and to enact necessary 
reforms.

I will conclude by saying, an open-ended commitment, keeping our 
troops in the middle of a civil war, is not the solution. We must not 
only demand that the President change course, but we must require that 
he do so. So I rise today in support of the Levin-Reed amendment.