# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `a82d07a2a5669c2a67b2f9dadbb40054`
`Mr. LIEBERMAN — 23 July 2009`

---


Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, I will say very briefly, to wind up, 
the Bayh amendment does remove the 130s from the Air Force. It is true 
they got money in the supplemental, but statements we got this morning 
from the Air Force and the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the 130s 
they got in the supplemental, which are critically needed, leave open--
in other words, they are nowhere near their requirements for that plane 
which is critically important to the Air Force and particularly to our 
special operations forces in Afghanistan, Iraq, and throughout the 
world in the war on terrorism.

I would just close by reading a statement from President Obama, when 
he introduced his defense budget on May 15.




 We are going to save money by eliminating unnecessary 


 Defense programs that do nothing to keep us safe but rather 


 prevent us from spending money on what does keep us safe. One 


 example is a $465 million program to build an alternate 


 engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. The Defense Department 


 is already pleased with the engine it has. The engine it has 


 works. The Pentagon does not want and does not plan to use 


 the alternate version. That is why the Pentagon stopped 


 requesting this program funding 2 years ago.


And then from Secretary Gates, just today:




 It is my belief the Joint Strike Fighter program presented 


 in the President's budget request is in the best interest of 


 national security. If a final bill is presented to the 


 President containing provisions that would seriously disrupt 


 the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, the President's senior 


 advisers will recommend that the President veto the bill.


That is from Secretary Gates' letter.

So I submit to my colleagues, I believe we have shown today that the 
second engine funding will seriously disrupt the Joint Strike Fighter 
Program. Again, I respectfully ask my colleagues to oppose the 
amendment from our good friend from Indiana and support the amendment 
we have offered.

I thank the Chair, and if there is no one else who wants to speak, I 
yield back the remainder of my time.