# None
## `a82f02e58daecd13799bcc2b2a04d19a`
`Mr. GREGG â€” 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I believe it is appropriate to respond to 
the assistant leader on the Democratic side relative to his commentary 
because this is obviously an issue of significance, probably the most 
significant issue we face as a nation today in the area of concern for 
our citizens who are carrying the burden of service and who wear the 
uniform of America.

I do think it is a touch cynical for the other side of the aisle to 
come to the floor of the Senate and say they are going to support the 
troops, when only 3 months into General Petraeus's leadership in Iraq 
they are suggesting that the rug should be pulled out from underneath 
his efforts. General Petraeus was sent there with an overwhelming vote 
of this body in support of his efforts to try to bring stability, 
specifically to Baghdad, and to give the Government of Iraq, which was 
freely elected--something which the other side of the aisle manages to 
ignore with a fair amount of energy--to give them the breathing space 
they need in order to be able to get going and to be able to create 
stability.

A stable Iraq is critical to our national defense, and it is critical 
to our ability to fight terrorism. A unilateral withdrawal forced upon 
us by the Democratic leadership of this Congress within the next 3 
months--which is the proposal they put into the language of this bill--
will guarantee that Iraq goes into chaos. It will probably guarantee 
that thousands, tens of thousands of Iraqis will die as a result of 
genocidal activity or activity that will border on genocide, and that 
will make the Balkans look like it was minor in comparison to Iraq as 
far as chaos. It will establish without doubt a client state for Iran, 
probably partitioned within Iraq. It will clearly create functioning 
safe havens for al-Qaida, which has sworn, of course, to attack America 
on American soil, and has already done so and has proven its ability to 
do this.

The fact that after only 3 months of General Petraeus being in the 
field we would pull from beneath him the ability to support the troops 
he needs there is really, in my opinion, an act of cynicism. The plan 
is set up in a manner--the language which was put into this plan is set 
up in a manner so that the Iraqi Government must meet 16 major goals in 
restructuring its Government within 2/1/2/ months. My goodness, the 
Congress of the United States, the Senate of the United States can't 
pass anything in 2/1/2/ months. Yet we expect the Iraqi Government and 
Legislature to reorganize its entire structure within 2/1/2/ months?

That is the condition put in this bill in order to maintain funds for 
our troops who are in the field. If the Iraqi Government is unable to 
meet those conditions, then within 3 months the money is withdrawn from 
the troops in the field, General Petraeus's flexibility is removed, and 
he is essentially handcuffed. The commanders in the field are no longer 
the generals in the field. It is no longer General Petraeus and his 
colonels and lieutenant colonels, his captains and his lieutenants. The 
commanders become the leadership of the other side of the aisle. They 
make the decisions on military action within Baghdad. General 
Petraeus's hands will be tied behind him, or at least one hand will be 
tied behind him.

Even if the Iraqi Government did the amazing thing of putting in 
place all these, significant conditions--and there should be 
conditions, no question, benchmarks for Iraq--these fairly significant 
conditions in a compressed timeframe, which guarantees they will not be 
accomplished, but let's say even if that Government were able to 
succeed in those conditions, then what is the reward for putting in 
place that type of stability and that type of restructuring? The 
language in the bill requires that the troops begin to be withdrawn and 
the money start to be cut off 3 months later. They are giving them a 3-
month breathing space of having the support they need and General 
Petraeus having the support he needs in order to accomplish his goals.

The other side of the aisle comes to the floor of the Senate and acts 
as if


these are not significant; that we are not putting in place things 
which can't be accomplished; that we want to support the troops in the 
field. Well, read the conditions. The conditions cannot be met, and 
they are intentionally structured not to be met. Listen to the real 
language from the other side of the aisle.

The majority leader says the war is lost. He wasn't talking just 
about Iraq. It appears he was talking about the entire war against 
terrorism, which happens to be a fairly significant statement. It is 
also obvious that when you make a statement like that, as the leader of 
the Democratic Party, the most senior Democratic Member of the Senate, 
one of the most senior Members of the Democratic leadership of the 
Government of this country, when you say the war is lost, you put your 
credibility on the line.

Quite honestly, if we institute the language as proposed in this 
bill, which dramatically limits the capacity of General Petraeus and 
the American troops to succeed in their mission, well, I guess that 
will probably guarantee the war is lost, so they will have a self-
fulfilling prophecy as relates to Iraq. The consequences of that will 
be catastrophic in the area of death and destruction within Iraq.

For us, as a nation and for our national security, should a client 
state be created for Iran within Iraq, should al-Qaida have free haven 
in Iraq, the consequences for us could be equally dramatic.

In addition, a little point should be made here. The language in this 
bill, as it is being brought forward, is blatantly unconstitutional. It 
essentially cedes responsibility for the management of the troops in 
the field to the legislative branch. Nowhere in the Constitution did 
the Founding Fathers believe there should be 435 people running 
military decisions in the field. They had just been through a war. They 
had been through the revolution, where they had one person running the 
army in the field, George Washington. They understood that you either 
put one person in charge or you have chaos in any sort of military 
action. That is why the Constitution says the Commander in Chief shall 
be the President, and that the military shall report to the Commander 
in Chief.

The language of this bill, on its face, is clearly unconstitutional 
because it essentially cedes responsibility for field command over our 
troops to the leadership of the Senate, the Democratic leadership of 
the Senate, ironically, which guarantees chaos in the area of order 
relative to defining and executing the mission as assigned to the 
troops in the field. You can't say to the American soldier, who is on 
the ground in Iraq, who is in Baghdad, who is doing their mission, and 
doing their mission well, very, very well--and General Petraeus has 
said there is progress occurring there--you can't say to that soldier: 
A, we are going to take the money away from you to support your 
mission; B, we are going to give your enemies a defined date when we 
are going to leave so that your enemies, our enemies, can wait you out 
and can basically harass you knowing that you are going to withdraw; 
and, C, that your new commander is the majority leader and the 
assistant leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the House.

We can't say: When General Petraeus gives you a command, you don't 
necessarily have to listen to him because the people who are going to 
make the decision as to how you execute your mission aren't in the line 
of authority of the military or the Commander in Chief; they have 
suddenly become the legislative branch of the Government.

The language in this bill is structured to accomplish one thing, and 
that is to assure defeat in our efforts to try to bring about a stable 
and responsible Government in Iraq. All you have to do to confirm the 
logic of that view and the accuracy of that view is to return to the 
words of the majority leader. The war is lost, he said. In order to 
assure that happens, they have brought forth the language in this bill 
which guarantees that our enemy will know when we are going to leave; 
that the freely elected Government of Iraq will not get the support it 
needs to survive as a stable and responsible Government; and that our 
soldiers will not know who is commanding them, but they will know they 
are not going to get the necessary support to accomplish their mission. 
That is defeat.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.