# IN RECOGNITION OF COLONEL CHRISTOPHER E. HOLZWORTH IV, UNITED STATES  MARINE CORPS
## `a83deb83dc687528188725bb53c2786e`
`Mr. MILLER of Florida — 28 February 2007`

---


Mr. MILLER of Florida. Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United States 
Congress, it is an honor for me to rise today to congratulate COL 
Christopher E. Holzworth IV on a successful tour as the Commanding 
Officer of MATSG-21 in Pensacola, Florida. He assumed command in July 
of 2005, and will be relieved in August of this year.

During his tour I had the pleasure of interacting with the Colonel on 
numerous occasions. ''Caveman,'' as he prefers to be called, was kind 
enough to invite me to lunch at his command and educate me on the 
training of our young Marines. These young men and women are preparing 
for combat against our Nation's enemies and Caveman does not let them 
forget it.

I was especially impressed with his initiative to have the MATSG 
students drive Humvees on Naval Air Station Pensacola so they could 
better prepare for their follow-on assignments in Iraq. Caveman's 
performance as the senior Marine onboard the Air Station during 
President Bush's November 2006 visit was nothing short of remarkable, 
and his work with the White House staff and my staff resulted in a 
flawless visit.

Although Caveman is not originally from Pensacola, our residents will 
gladly claim him as one of their own. He was raised in Ft. Lauderdale, 
Florida and after graduating from the University of Virginia, he 
attended Marine Corps Officer Candidate School, OCS, and was 
commissioned a Second Lieutenant in April 1983. Upon completing The 
Basic School, he reported to Naval Air Training Command, Pensacola, FL, 
and was designated a Naval Aviator in 1985.

He had served in numerous operational and staff positions, including: 
a November 1990 deployment for ''Operations Desert Shield/Storm,'' as 
well as counterinsurgency operations in Southwest Asia, and an August 
1994 deployment for ''Operations Uphold Democracy/Support Democracy'' 
in Cape Haitian, Haiti.

Colonel Holzworth received his Master's in National Security and 
Strategic Studies in November of 2003, and from November of 2003 to 
June of 2005, he served as Expeditionary Policy Branch Head, Operations 
Division, for the Plans, Policies and Operations Department of 
Headquarters Marine Corps.

Colonel Holzworth was selected for command of MATSG-2l in summer 2004 
and was promoted to his present rank in January 2005.

His personal decorations include the Defense Meritorious Service 
Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with 2 gold stars, Air Medal with 
numeral ''1,'' Navy/Marine Corps Commendation Medal with gold star, and 
the Navy/Marine Corps Achievement Medal.

Caveman has served the United States Marine Corps and his country 
well since his commissioning in 1983, and he has made the Northwest 
Florida community proud. Vicki and I wish him the best of luck in his 
future assignment. On behalf of the United States Congress and the 
residents of Pensacola, I wish


to thank Colonel Holzworth for his service and lastly, ''Semper 
Fidelis.''
