---
---

# FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT OF 2008
## `a84c06dc3cc293511acf0141a98ffccf`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas — 8 May 2008`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in 2007, Texas ranked fourth 
behind California, Florida and Illinois in pre-foreclosures. We're 
reminded of Franklin Delano Roosevelt who said we have nothing to fear 
but fear itself. We certainly have to face fear and to be able to 
respond to this collapse in mortgages and our economic markets, by 
resolve and not fear.

And so this is not a bailout. It's a helping hand. It's what Franklin 
Delano Roosevelt did to restore this country, and it worked. We 
survived.

And so this tells us that we can survive, providing $10 billion in 
low-income tax credits for low-income homeowners and to also build 
rental properties. We also give a $7,500 tax credit for first time home 
buyers and a $700 tax credit for those who are paying property taxes.

And it does fix the GSEs. It does provide an opportunity to get us 
out of this mortgage foreclosure hold, but it does it in the right way. 
It's not scandalous. It's not illegal. It allows us to be able to have 
the mortgage owner sell it back to FHA at a lower price; the lower 
mortgage is then backed by FHA, and it isn't a gimmick. It's not a 
flipover. Any profit made by the homeowner comes back to the government 
if the property is later sold.

And we protect our disabled veterans, those who have fallen upon hard 
times. They can still be in the program even if they are in bankruptcy.

Mr. Speaker, this bill responds to the homeless and the helpless. 
What it does say is those who are living from hand-to-hand, who are 
living in their parents' homes, who have been thrown out of their home, 
who have been thrown out because they're in rental property, this is a 
fix and the life and the spirit of what America is all about.

We don't believe in giving a fish. We believe in giving a fishing 
rod. This is an even-handed, balanced way between the House and the 
Senate to provide tax relief but also to be able to provide the 
construct and the infrastructure to get our houses back together, along 
with our stabilization bill that says we're going to buy back 
foreclosed homes and give them to people who need them.

Is there anything wrong with America rising to be higher angels and 
helping our fellow brothers and sisters?

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3221, the ''American Housing 
Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008''. This momentous 
legislation would jump-start the market for mortgages by establishing a 
true market value for the securities backed by these loans.

H.R. 3221 responds directly to the current housing crisis facing this 
country, while providing the tools to prevent a repeat of these 
problems.

This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, 
frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions 
in our country today. This great Nation will endure as it has endured, 
will revive and will prosper. As President Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
stated in 1933, ''the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--
nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed 
efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' We must do just that. We 
must move forward and that is exactly what H.R. 3221 seeks to do.

This legislation will begin to repair, not bail out the economy, 
restoring confidence in the markets, limiting the damage to families 
and neighborhoods, and rejuvenating the communities with new affordable 
housing. Ironically, we celebrate the bailouts of yesteryear, when we 
believed that the power of the federal government was needed to get the 
country out of the Depression.

Were the banking reform laws, emergency relief programs, work relief 
programs, and agricultural programs, the Social Security Act, and 
programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers--were these 
bailouts? Many of the New Deal programs under President Roosevelt were 
considered bailouts at that time. And yet, these programs brought our 
country out of the Depression, rejuvenated our economy, and gave hope 
as we sought to deal with the War overseas.


















 Texas


In 2007, Texas ranked fourth behind California, Florida, and Illinois 
in pre-foreclosures. Last year, Texas held the top seat for active 
foreclosures.

H.R. 3221 helps homeowners and only homeowners, not speculators or 
lenders. We cannot continue to stand by as things get worse. Texas 
reported 13,829 properties entering some stage of foreclosure in April, 
a 16% increase from the previous month and the most foreclosure filings 
reported by any state. The state documented the Nation's third highest 
state combined foreclosure rate--one foreclosure filing for every 582 
households.

Many homeowners in my district are worried about missing their next 
house payment or their next home equity mortgage, or their interest 
rate going up. These families are under stress and in constant fear of 
losing their homes.

While this bill should not be the last word in housing legislation, 
it is a great beginning. This bill coupled with H.R. 5818, the 
Neighborhood Stabilization Act, provides a good starting point in 
providing Americans with relief.













Texas and what HUD is Doing


In March, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), 
announced the Texas State Program and the cities of Houston and New 
Braunfels will receive a total of $234,868,077 to support community 
development and produce more affordable housing. HUD's annual funding 
will also provide down-payment assistance to first-time home buyers; 
assist individuals and families who might otherwise be living on the 
streets; and offer real housing solutions for individuals with HIV/
AIDS.

While HUD is working to help Americans, we must all do our part.

We need to pass H.R. 3221, and we need to continue to push in a 
bipartisan manner, legislation that will ease gas and energy costs, the 
rising costs of food, and the ever-rising cost of health care.

We are spending billions of dollars on the war in Iraq. I support our 
troops but I am dismayed at how our support for a war that needs to 
become less military and more diplomatic in nature, has disrupted our 
ability to take care of things at home.

















 Conclusion


 Thank you Mr. Speaker for your leadership in this area, I urge my 
colleagues to support American families by supporting, H.R. 3221. I 
yield back the balance of my time.