---
---

# None
## `a850f8d1f4af6ebbebafd88ab55ba50a`
`Ms. CASTOR â€” 15 March 2007`

---


Ms. CASTOR. Madam Speaker, House Resolution 242 provides for 
consideration of H.R. 1362, the Accountability in Contracting Act, 
under a structured rule. The rule provides 80 minutes of general 
debate, with 60 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chairman 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the 
bill, except clauses 9 and 10 of rule XXI.

The rule provides that in lieu of the substitutes recommended by the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Committee on Armed 
Services, the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part A 
of the Rules Committee report shall be considered as an original bill 
for the purpose of amendment. All points of order except clauses 9 and 
10 of rule XXI are waived against the substitute, and the substitute 
shall be considered as read.

The rule makes in order the two amendments printed in part B of the 
Rules Committee report. Each amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report and by the Member designated in the report. The 
amendments are considered as read, are debatable for 10 minutes each, 
are not subject to amendment and are not divisible. All points of order 
against the amendments except for clauses 9 and 10 of rule XXI are 
waived.

Finally, the rule provides one motion to recommit, with or without 
instructions.

Madam Speaker, this rule and the legislation before us today is the 
Accountability in Contracting Act. This new act will restore 
accountability in Federal contracting. It targets conflicts of interest 
that have become too prevalent over past years.

During the first 100 hours of this new Congress, we charted a new 
direction in response to the American people's call for change and 
reform. We passed pay-as-you-go budgeting to require greater fiscal 
responsibility, we passed Medicare part D reform to require the 
executive branch to negotiate lower drug prices for our seniors and 
help the Federal bottom line, and we eliminated unnecessary tax 
subsidies for big oil companies that were making record profits while 
we paid record prices at the pump.

But if you recall, Madam Speaker, the first item of business during 
the first 100 hours of this new Congress was ethics reform. After the 
scandals of the past years, our commitment to the American people is to 
fight for higher ethical standards in the United States Congress and 
for all of the Federal Government by severing the connection between 
lobbyists and legislation, by banning gifts and travel from lobbyists, 
and ending the abuses of privately funded travel.

Today, the new Democratic Congress will continue our fight for ethics 
reform while we are still in the first 100 days through this rule and 
the Accountability in Contracting Act. This bill targets waste in 
Federal contracting, limits the use of no-bid contracts, minimizes 
sole-source contracts, and closes the revolving door between purchasing 
officers and private contractors. This bill addresses the past problems 
with wasteful and fraudulent contracts in Iraq, the Defense Department 
and in relation to Hurricane Katrina.

Congressional hearings have already shown that an estimated $10 
billion in


Iraq reconstruction funds was wasted as a result of overcharging, poor 
tracking and mismanagement by U.S. contractors, three times more than 
was estimated just last fall. Unfortunately, these accounts have 
abounded under the Bush administration. Defense auditors estimate that 
at least one out of six dollars spent in Iraq is suspect, including 
$2.7 billion in Halliburton contracts.

Almost 19 post-Hurricane Katrina contracts worth a total of $8.75 
billion have been plagued by waste, fraud and mismanagement; and only 
30 percent of the more than $10 billion in Katrina contracts were 
awarded with full and open competition. And when it comes down to the 
small contractors who are actually hauling away the rubble and debris, 
they were not getting paid properly. This bill will help stop these 
kinds of wasteful contracts that keep the real work from getting done, 
that keep our neighbors from recovering from a natural disaster, and 
that keep the real workers from getting paid.

In my Tampa Bay area district, the Federal defense procurement 
revolving door has been the subject of Federal investigations in 
Federal district court proceedings in Tampa over the past several 
years. So it is vital we stand up for the folks we represent and demand 
their Federal tax dollars are spent correctly, especially when it comes 
to national security. That means having tough and fair oversight and a 
transparent system so there are no conflicts of interest.

So I commend the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and 
the Chair, Mr. Waxman, for his diligent efforts. I also commend the 
House Armed Services Chair, Ike Skelton, and my fellow members of the 
Armed Services Committee for their work on this legislation. When we 
marked this bill up in the House Armed Services Committee on Tuesday, 
this effort won bipartisan and unanimous support. It deserves no less 
by the full House today.

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.