---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a851112cb37b22aa3086067ac47bdd88`
`Mr. KANJORSKI — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. KANJORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join the overwhelming 
majority of American people, the Congress and many top U.S. military 
commanders to voice my opposition to President Bush's ill-conceived 
plan to send more American troops into the middle of an ongoing civil 
war in Iraq. The President's plan, which has been attempted before on 
four separate occasions and failed, is simultaneously too little and 
too much. 21,500 troops is too little to make a difference in a city of 
6 million who are unwilling to see beyond their sectarian differences, 
and too much burden to place on an American military already stretched 
to the breaking point.

Mr. Speaker, in October 2002, I voted in favor of the legislation to 
allow President Bush to defend the national security of our country 
against the stated threats posed by Saddam Hussein. In large part, I 
based my decision on the information I learned in several classified 
briefings with high-level administration officials about the 
capabilities of the Iraqis to deliver weapons of mass destruction to 
the United States.

These officials pointed to an imminent threat posed by Saddam Hussein 
and his potential use of unmanned aerial vehicles to deliver weapons of 
mass destruction to our shores. Of course, we now know that these 
weapons, as well as the Bush administration's claims regarding Saddam's 
ties to al Qaeda, were fictional. The consequences of our action, 
however, are quite real.

To date, the Iraq war has come at a terrible cost to the United 
States. More than 3,100 servicemembers have been killed and greater 
than 23,400 have been wounded. My home State of Pennsylvania has lost 
149 soldiers and over 1,000 have been wounded. Moreover, the United 
States has spent almost $380 billion to date, with hundreds of billions 
of dollars more requested by the Bush administration.

The war in Iraq has also diverted much-needed resources away from 
fighting the war on terrorism and eradicating al Qaeda. The focus on 
Iraq and away from the real threat of al Qaeda has resulted in an 
increasing number of deadly attacks launched by Taliban and al Qaeda 
forces in and around Afghanistan.

On Tuesday, The Washington Post reported that NATO's top commander, 
General John Craddock, does not have enough forces for the anticipated 
spring offensive by the Taliban. The general warned that ''failure to 
send reinforcements was weakening the mission and jeopardizing the 
lives of soldiers fighting'' in Afghanistan.

More than 135,000 troops are currently serving in Iraq. Many have 
completed their second or even their third tour of duty. Multiple tours 
of duty for the National Guard and Reserve members have created 
hardships for many families in my district and throughout the United 
States. Currently, these brave American forces are caught in the middle 
of a religious dispute that began in the 7th century between rival 
Muslim factions. These underlying sectarian hostilities have come to 
the fore in Iraq and have grown into a full-blown civil war.

Bringing stability to Iraq cannot be achieved through an escalation 
of our military involvement in that country. Rather, Shiites and Sunnis 
must decide for themselves to forge a political solution to this crisis 
in which the interests of all Iraqis are represented. Nevertheless, 
President Bush is ignoring the advice of his top generals, the 
bipartisan Iraq Study Group, the majority of Congress, and, most of 
all, the American people by announcing his intention to send an 
additional 21,500 American troops into harm's way to continue pursuing 
a flawed policy.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose this escalation of our troop presence in Iraq. 
The time for more troops was 4 years ago when General Shinseki 
presciently warned of the need for hundreds of thousands of military 
personnel to stabilize post-war Iraq. But the President, the Vice 
President, and the former Secretary of Defense believed they could 
fight this war on the cheap, with too few troops, too little armor, and 
too little help. They were wrong, and now it is too late.

Mr. Speaker, from my perspective, the resolution before us today has 
been long overdue. The American people have called on this Congress to 
express their disapproval of this war of choice in Iraq and this 
President's prosecution of it. To that end, I will support this 
resolution and urge my colleagues to do the same.