---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a86cc4a682f19135d1ba7dc095f829c5`
`Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida — 15 June 2007`

---


Ms. CORRINE BROWN of Florida. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want to 
thank Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Obey, and Chairman Edwards for bringing 
this bill to the floor. The motto of the former Veterans Secretary, my 
friend Jessie Brown, was ''putting veterans first.''

Well, the leadership they have shown, bringing the largest increase 
in the history of veterans funding to the floor, over $7 billion, I 
have got to thank you, sir. I have served on this committee for 15 
years, and for 15 years we have struggled to put the veterans first. 
And I am so pleased that the House of Representatives under your 
leadership has finally put the veterans first.

Mr. Chairman, I rise on my amendment to bring attention to a travesty 
occurring in my district. A travesty not just affecting my district, 
but this regional hospital affects Florida and Georgia.

The Gainesville VA Medical Center is 40 years old and looks every day 
of it. There are five beds to a room, no shower, and no place for 
families.

This facility received one of the highest rates of returning 
Afghanistan and Iraq veterans and is being shortchanged by a lack of 
proper facilities. The bed tower project includes 228 single-patient 
bedrooms for surgical, medical, and psychiatric patients. This includes 
extra space for support of the psychiatric care inpatient program. 
Finally, the building itself was required to be structurally 
strengthened to protect it from potential terrorist attack since we are 
part of the national emergency response system. The current design will 
be completed in June 2007 and will be ready to be released for bid in 
September 2007.

Since the approval by the National CARES Commission and initial 
funding allocation, much has changed in the construction world. The 
dual impacts of Hurricane Katrina and the construction boom in China 
have caused the costs of all construction in the U.S. to rise.

The total estimated construction cost is over $103 million. The 
original projection was $64 million for construction. That leaves a 
shortfall of about $40 million.

Every month of delay costs about $1.1 million. An additional $40 
million is needed in order to complete the project.

The men and women returning to Florida and southern Georgia will be 
greatly impacted, and I would like to work with the committee to 
resolve this matter.

Mr. Chairman, do I have the word of the chairman to look into this 
matter?