---
---

# None
## `a8722982dc8ed731e316b540ce74c2c3`
`Mr. LEAHY — 13 March 2008`

---


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I will support the Senate budget resolution 
brought to the Senate by the Budget Committee and Chairman Conrad. This 
budget continues the long process that the new Congress started last 
year to restore fiscal responsibility and order to our Federal budget. 
I commend Chairman Conrad and his colleagues on the Budget Committee 
for producing a responsible budget resolution that strives to meet the 
real needs of the American people and to optimize our Nation's most 
pressing challenges and opportunities.

As we debate the budget, it is important to recall how we got to this 
point. When he took office in January of 2001, President Bush inherited 
a record Federal budget surplus. Instead of steering the country on a 
prudent course that would have helped prepare for the retirement of the 
baby boomers, supported the aspirations of working families, met the 
pressing needs of those who are struggling, and paid down our large 
national debt, the President immediately pushed through more than $1 
trillion in tax cuts aimed at the wealthiest Americans and 
corporations.

Since then, the Bush administration has pursued fiscal policies of 
recklessness and squander that have short-circuited the priorities of 
hard-working families, children and seniors. For the Bush 
administration, investments in health care, education, housing, the 
anticrime and antidrug work of our law enforcement community, our first 
responders, and the rising home heating costs of those who can least 
afford them have taken a back seat to a costly, misguided and 
mismanaged war in Iraq and to the administration's disastrous fiscal 
policies here at home.

Now that a worsening housing slump, high gas prices and dampened 
consumer confidence have caused jitters throughout our Nation's 
financial markets--leading to continued job losses and weaker-than-
expected retail sales--the President's continued fiscal mismanagement 
has hamstrung the government's ability to provide needed investments in 
programs that will help hard-working American families weather the 
financial storm.

We cannot continue on the path of fiscal irresponsibility the current 
administration has set, by holding to a course that will cost more than 
$3 trillion in Iraq and ignoring the needs of our most important 
domestic programs. As far as the White House is concerned, anything 
goes when it comes to spending in Iraq, while the real priorities of 
the American people have been forced farther and farther back in the 
line.

With the budget plans of the past 2 years, the new Congress has ended 
the days of rubberstamping the President's budget, and the process has 
begun of shifting our country in a new direction that will be better 
for hard-working Americans everywhere. By strengthening our economy, 
creating jobs, investing in our infrastructure, increasing our energy 
independence and supporting our military veterans and first responders, 
the Senate's budget plan puts the concerns of the working Americans 
front and center. Moreover, by carefully targeting and reallocating 
resources, the budget resolution would return us to Federal budget 
surpluses in 2012 and 2013 and accomplish this without raising new 
taxes.