# DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES
## `a877e741e35495a69f0b45521471678a`
`Mr. SESSIONS — 17 September 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I wish to thank the Senator from 
California. Her courtesy is legendary in this body and I thank her for 
that.

I am taken aback and flabbergasted by the Obama administration's 
decision announced today to cancel the European missile defense site. I 
ask, what does that mean? What will be the consequences of that 
decision? I wish to share a few remarks about it and note that this 
shift is contrary to the sense-of-the-Senate language that we included 
in the Defense bill passed a few weeks ago by this Senate. It is a very 
significant decision. I want to give it more thought. I don't want to 
overstate the problem. However, I wish to be on record today as saying 
this is a surprising decision, one that I have been involved in the 
discussion of for quite a number of years, and I feel as if it is a big 
error.

What happens? We asked our allies in Central Europe, Poland, and the 
Czech Republic to stand with us and to agree to place a radar in the 
Czech Republic and to place our defensive missile interceptors in 
Poland. The heads of those governments agreed to that. There was a lot 
of opposition here in the United States to the proposal. Likewise, 
there was opposition expressed in Poland and the Czech Republic from 
the traditional European left, many of them Marxists or hard-line 
leftists who have opposed the West's and the world's defense program 
for many years. However, that opposition was overruled and these 
nations were proud to be and to stand with the United States of 
America. It did not bother them that their big neighbor, Russia, 
objected. They are a sovereign nation of which they are quite proud. 
They were proud to make a decision and reach an agreement with the 
United States of America that could defend this country from limited 
missile attack from a rogue nation such as Iran. If Iran were to launch 
a missile attack that could reach the United States, its path would 
take it over Europe, and European nations were not immune to the threat 
of such an attack on their soil.

So they felt they were participating both in the defense of Europe 
and in the defense of the United States, and it was a good government 
public interest decision that they were pleased to participate in and 
stood up with us. We made a commitment to Poland and the Czech 
Republic, of course, when we asked them to do this and go through this 
process to build a system.

For years, we have been moving forward with that plan in mind in the 
Senate. This year, we had quite a bit of discussion about it in the 
Senate and we reached an agreement that I think pretty much stated 
flatly what our position. There were some who objected, and this is how 
we modified the language to finally state:




 It is the sense of the Senate that (1) the United States 


 Government should continue developing and planning for the 


 proposed deployment of elements of a Ground-based Midcourse 


 Defense system, including a midcourse radar in the Czech 


 Republic and Ground-based interceptors in Poland, consistent 


 with the Duncan Hunter National Defense Act of 2009.


Paragraph 2 says:




 In conjunction with the continued development of the 


 planned Ground-based Midcourse Defense system, the United 


 States should work with its North Atlantic Treaty 


 Organization allies to explore a range of options and 


 architectures to provide missile defenses for Europe and the 


 United States against current and future Iranian ballistic 


 missile capabilities.



 Any alternative system that the United States Government 


 considers deploying in Europe to provide for the defense of 


 Europe and a redundant defense of the United States against 


 future long-range Iranian missile threats should be at least 


 as capable and cost-effective as the proposed European 


 deployment of the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system; and 


 any missile defense capabilities deployed in Europe should, 


 to the extent practical, be interoperable with United States 


 and North Atlantic Treaty Organization.


Indeed, NATO endorsed this program.

For a while, some of our Members said, Well, I am not too sure about 
this. What does NATO say? NATO did endorse it. This action of backing 
down from our European-site Missile Defense system sends an overt 
signal to our allies that we don't fulfill our commitments, and it is 
bound to make our allies in Central Europe particularly nervous. This 
decision sends a message from the administration that we reward bad 
behavior.

The defense of this decision to abandon this program is that we are 
not doing this to curry favor with Russia, but that clearly is a State 
Department goal in this process because the Russians have objected to 
the deployment of this system--although it had virtually no capability 
with 10 interceptors in Poland to in any way defend against the massive 
arsenal that the old Soviet Union developed and that Russia now 
maintains.

So it does appear to be an attempt to placate Russia at the expense 
of our great allies, the Czech Republic and Poland. And we are walking 
away from a bipartisan commitment to national missile defense on a 
European site, as I noted, included in the National Defense 
Authorization Act for 2010. We accepted the sense-of-the-Senate 
language unanimously because both parties agreed to this. Senator 
Lieberman and I were the primary sponsors, along with Senator Begich 
and others on the Democratic side, and a strong contingent of 
Republicans.

Let me say this about the whole system. I am worried--and I hope my 
colleagues will take this point under consideration. We have spent 
approximately $20 billion developing something many people believed 
would never work; that is, the ability to intercept in space an 
incoming ICBM missile and hit it bullet to bullet. We don't even deploy 
or utilize explosives. The kinetic energy is so great that it destroys 
the target when it hits. Our military experts have said that if North 
Korea were to be able to successfully launch a missile, they believe 
they could knock it down. We are improving our system as we have a 
number of them deployed, and we plan to deploy more. Yet this year's 
budget was a stunning retrenchment in our missile defense system. Let 
me summarize the things that occurred.



Even though this language contemplated moving forward in Europe, this 
is what we did regarding the United States. For quite a number of 
years, we planned to deploy 44 interceptor missiles--most in Alaska and 
a number in California. We talked about what to do about the Iranian 
threat, to provide redundant coverage for those missiles coming over 
from the east. We agreed that we would seek the agreement of Poland and 
the Czech Republic to base assets there. Fifty-four interceptors were 
to be deployed, 10 at the European site and 44 on the West Coast of the 
United States. What happened in this year's budget was that the 44 to 
be deployed in Alaska and California have been cut to 30.

The next technological advance to our missile defense system, the 
MEV--multikill vehicle--would be the warhead which could take out 
multiple incoming missiles with one missile. We think that was very 
capable technology that would be developed. That was zeroed out.

We had an additional system of a smaller but very high-speed 
interceptor, called a kinetic energy interceptor, KEI, that has been on 
the drawing board for a number of years and is showing a great deal of 
promise. That was zeroed out after years of funding.

We had plans and were working on the airborne laser, ABL, an amazing 
technology that our Defense Department believes will work--and we will 
test it this year. The airborne laser can knock down missiles, 
particularly in their ascent phase from an airplane. That missile 
system, after this year, will be zeroed out.

The 10 missiles we intended to base in Central Europe have been 
eliminated, it appears. At least that has been the President's 
recommendation and decision that we heard about today.

So I would say this: We believe, looking carefully at the numbers and 
putting in some extra loose change, for $1 billion, we could fully 
deploy the full system--with the full compliment of 44 missiles in the 
United States and 10 in Europe. We have spent over $20 billion to get 
to this point. So it is unthinkable to me that we would eliminate any 
future advancements in the system. I think, from a cost point of view, 
it is an unwise decision.

I am concluding that money is not the problem. I can only conclude 
that the Obama administration has decided that they agree with the 
naysayers who opposed President Reagan when he said this could ever be 
a successful system. They opposed it, and it looks like a political 
decision to me. Some sort of judgment decision to cancel this is 
involved here more than a dollars-and-cents issue because in the scheme 
of a $500 billion-plus defense budget, $1 billion over several years to 
complete the system as planned is not the kind of budget-breaking 
number that should cause us to change our policy.

Senator Lieberman and I had offered this sense of the Senate 
amendment, and it passed the Senate just a few weeks ago. I believe it 
is the right policy. I think the administration is trying to do some, 
perhaps, good things. They think maybe they are attempting to placate 
or somehow reach out to Russia and gain some strategic advantage from 
that--although the Secretary of Defense, I understand, today said it 
didn't have anything to do with the Russian foreign policy, and I am 
not sure the administration acknowledges that either. ''The Czech 
premier, Jan Fischer, said Thursday''--this is in an Associated Press 
article--''that President Barack Obama told him Washington had decided 
to scrap the plan that had deeply angered Russia.'' It seems to me that 
is a part of it.

Let's go to the core of this Russian objection. As I have said on the 
floor, Russia knows this system poses no threat to their massive 
arsenal. They know that. Their objection to this system has been, in my 
view, a political objection, a foreign policy bluster and gambit to try 
to create a problem with the United States and extract something from 
us. They consistently oppose it.

Let's note the Reuters news article today by Michael Stott, which is 
an analysis of this. The headline of the article is ''Demise of U.S. 
shield may embolden Russia hawks.'' In other words, this weakness, this 
retreat, this backing down may well encourage them to believe that if 
they are more confrontational on other matters, they may gain more than 
by being nice to this administration.

The lead paragraph said:




 Washington hopes that by backing away from an anti-missile 


 system in east Europe, it will get Russian cooperation on 


 everything from nuclear weapons cuts to efforts to curb 


 Iranian and North Korean nuclear ambitions.



 But will Moscow keep its side of the bargain?


That is a good question.

Mr. Stott goes on in his perceptive article to say:




 With the shield now on the back burner, both sides believe 


 a deal cutting long-range nuclear arsenals can be inked this 


 year and Russia has already agreed to allow U.S. military 


 cargos to transit across its territory en route to 


 Afghanistan.


That is something we have been asking them for some time, and they 
have dangled it out there. Apparently, a valuable but not critical 
ability to transport cargo may have been gained from this.

The author says:




 Russian diplomacy is largely a zero-sum game and relies on 


 projecting hard power to forced gains, as in last year's war 


 with Georgia over the rebel regions of Abkhazia and South 


 Osettia or the gas dispute with Ukraine at the start of the 


 year.



 Western concepts of ''win-win'' deals and Obama's drive for 


 21st century global partnerships are not part of its 


 vocabulary.


The Western idea that if you cut a deal, both sides will benefit--
that is not the way the Russians think.

Continuing:




 Diplomats here say Moscow hardliners could read the shield 


 backdown as a sign of Washington's weakness. Far from doing 


 the bidding of the United States, they may instead press for 


 further gain to shore up Russian power in the former Soviet 


 bloc.


That is the Czech Republic, Ukraine, Georgia, Poland, the Baltics, 
Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, and Hungary.

The author goes on to say:




 Ukraine, Georgia, and other Kremlin foes in the ex-Soviet 


 Union may be the first to feel the consequences.



 Poland and the Czech Republic are also nervous. In Warsaw, 


 the timing of the U.S. move is particularly delicate as it 


 coincides with the 70th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of 


 eastern Poland.



 Analysts are particularly concerned about Ukraine, which 


 faces a presidential election next January. Most of Russia's 


 vast gas exports flow through its territory and the country 


 reluctantly hosts a large Russian naval base.


I don't know what the geopolitical goals are here. I think it is a 
mistake not to deploy this system we committed to deploying. I believe 
we are not going to be able to rely on the good faith of the Russians, 
and I think they may misread what we have done. Instead of leading to 
further accommodation, it may lead to emboldening them to go forward 
with further demands against the United States.

I thank the Chair and yield the floor.