---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `a881dd119b6d2b9aac311e521c71c43e`
`Ms. LEE of California — 10 March 2010`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, first let me thank the 
gentleman from Ohio for this very important resolution. Today's debate 
and discussion on the path forward in Afghanistan and the proper role 
of Congress in determining the United States' commitment of our country 
while at war, this debate and discussion is long overdue. So thank you, 
Congressman Kucinich, for bringing this to the floor.

Now in our 9th year of war, this body has yet to conduct a full and 
honest accounting of the benefits, costs, affordability, and strategic 
importance of the United States military operations in Afghanistan.

In order to understand Afghanistan and where we are today in terms of 
our commitment, I think it is really useful to point to how we got 
here. Of course, after the horrific events, the tragic events of 9/11 
in 2001, I had to vote against the authorization to use force, this use 
of force authorization, because I knew that that authorization was a 
blank check to wage war anywhere, at any time, and for any length.

Almost 9 years later, in reflecting on the rush to war in Afghanistan 
and the Bush administration's war of choice in Iraq, the sacrifices 
made by our brave, young men and women in uniform and the cost to our 
economic and national security, all of these costs are totally 
immeasurable. Countless innocent civilians have lost their lives in 
Afghanistan, and just a few weeks ago the number of American troops 
killed in Afghanistan rose to over 1,000.

Where does this end? Where does it end? We have already given $1 
trillion to the Pentagon for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the 
economic impact of these wars is estimated to be as much as $7 trillion 
in direct and indirect costs to the United States.

It is our responsibility as Members of Congress to really develop a 
more effective U.S. foreign policy for the 21st century. After a decade 
of open-ended wars, I encourage my colleagues to finally stand firm in 
asserting their constitutional prerogative to determine when the United 
States enters into war.