---
---

# EXECUTIVE SESSION
## `a883ad2f54c4e10cc00865c577a6c7db`
`Mr. CASEY — 20 December 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to speak about two or three topics 
in this debate on the START treaty, but first and foremost, one that 
speaks directly to the amendment that is pending. That is the question 
of verification--the ability for the United States to verify by way of 
inspection and other means what the Russian Federation has in terms of 
its nuclear weapons.

First of all, I would say as a foundational principle in this debate, 
nothing in this treaty will in any way compromise the safety, security, 
effectiveness, and reliability of our nuclear arsenal. That is critical 
to make that point, and I think the American people understand that. 
But as the American people are listening to this debate


about verification, I think it is important to outline the distinctions 
between the amendment and I think what is, in fact, the case in the 
treaty.

The treaty itself allows each party up to 18 short-notice, on-site 
inspections, and that is each year, with up to 10 so-called type one 
inspections conducted at operating bases for ICBMs, strategic nuclear-
powered ballistic missiles, submarines, and finally nuclear-capable 
heavy bombers. So that is the type one inspections, up to 18 of those, 
which are short-notice inspections. Secondly, under the type two 
inspections, these are conducted in places such as storage sites, test 
ranges, formerly declared facilities, and conversion or elimination 
facilities.

Some have asked whether we lose any valuable elements of the original 
START agreement's inspection regime. The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Policy James Miller replied to that question, a similar question I 
posed during the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the 
verification of the New START treaty. It was a hearing I chaired. He 
said that under New START, we will conduct, as I said a moment ago, 18 
inspections per year for 35 sites; so 18 inspections, 35 Russian sites. 
Under START I, there were 28 inspections for 70 Russian facilities. We 
are going from a verification regime where there are 28 inspections for 
70 sites to one that goes to 18 inspections for 35 sites. The ratio is 
actually better under this treaty in terms of the numbers of 
inspections and sites.

Mr. Miller, Under Secretary of Defense Miller, said that the ratio of 
inspections to facilities ''is improved under the New START treaty 
relative to the original START treaty.'' That is Under Secretary of 
State Miller. That is not my words but his.

ADM Mike Mullen, Chairman of our Joint Chiefs of Staff, reiterated 
this point on March 26 of 2010 when he said that the New START 
''features a much more effective transparent verification method that 
demands quicker data exchanges and notifications.''

In addition, this does not take into account that some of the 
inspections under the New START treaty allow us to do two inspections 
at once, unlike the first START treaty. I would also say the inspection 
regime we have in place under this treaty has also been changed to 
reflect the current security environment, an enhanced relationship with 
the Russian Federation and more than a decade of our experience in 
conducting inspections. The New START inspection regime is simpler and 
cheaper than that which was conducted under the original START treaty. 
We conduct fewer overall inspections under this new treaty because 
there are, in fact, fewer sites in Russia to inspect, and we have 
gotten better at inspecting in the years since this has transpired.

I would also say we are standing here today on December 20 of 2010, 
380 days without inspectors on the ground in Russia. That is one of the 
reasons why I say ratification of this New START treaty makes us safer 
than not ratifying this treaty; in fact, makes us less safer. One of 
the reasons for that--not the only reason, but one of the reasons--is 
that 380 days have passed without inspectors on the ground. This is, in 
a word, unacceptable to our national security. I think the American 
people believe that as well.

We need to vote on this treaty. While I and many of our colleagues 
who have worked on this believe there is a sense of urgency, we also 
believe the views of the other side of the aisle have been engaged in a 
serious debate. We have had day after day now of debate on the floor. 
Of course, all of the debate here now and last week--almost a full week 
now--all of that was preceded by months and months of work on the 
Foreign Relations Committee, the Intelligence Committee, and other 
parts of the Senate.

This is not new. The President made an agreement back in the spring 
of this year. We passed this treaty out of our committee back in the 
fall. We have had a lot of work. More than 900 questions have been 
asked of the administration and more than 900 questions have been 
answered by the administration; something like 20 separate hearings 
among several committees. We have had a lot of time and a lot of work 
put into this. The pace of this, in my judgment, has not been too fast, 
but it has been done with a sense of urgency to finally--after all of 
these months of work, all of these months of debate, all of these 
months of hearings, we are at a point now where we can ratify this 
treaty. I think in the end there is going to be bipartisan and broad 
support for ratification and we look forward to that vote.

My decision to support the New START treaty came after informed study 
of this issue as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and it is 
based, in large part, on relying upon and asking questions of folks 
such as Admiral Mullen, to name one--someone who has spent years in the 
service of this country, concerned about and doing something about the 
defense and the security of this country. So often we hear in this 
Chamber we should respect the opinions of commanders on the ground, and 
we should. We have heard that in the context of the war in Iraq, and we 
continue to hear it in the context of the war in Afghanistan. We should 
respect and take into consideration the determinations and judgments 
made by commanders on the ground, those who have direct experience with 
military questions and, in this case, have direct experience with the 
defense of our country.

I think when it comes to the New START treaty, we should apply the 
same rule as well when it comes to Admiral Mullen or any other military 
leader who has an opinion about this treaty. The commanders on the 
ground as it relates to this treaty have spoken and they have done so 
without equivocation and, I would argue, unanimously. On this vital 
treaty and on this national security issue, they have spoken with one 
voice: We need to take action to secure our country and we need to take 
action to defend our country. We need to make sure we are taking 
actions that will result in a nuclear arsenal that will be safe, 
secure, effective, and reliable, and one of the steps to get there is 
to make sure we ratify this treaty.


Let me move to one other topic. I know we have colleagues here who 
wish to speak. Let me ask how much time I have remaining.