---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF SGT JOSHUA AKONI SABLAN LUKEALA
## `a896daf60d3d98c6ec9d26985449b00a`
`Ms. BORDALLO — 23 June 2010`

---


Ms. BORDALLO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the service and 
sacrifice of


United States Army Sergeant Joshua Akoni Sablan Lukeala. SGT Lukeala 
served in the 101st Airborne Division's Air Assault team based out of 
Fort Campbell, Kentucky, and on June 9, 2010, SGT Lukeala passed away 
in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. He was 23 
years old.

SGT Lukeala was born on February 19, 1987, to Anthony and Dorothy 
Lukeala of Yigo, Guam. The son of a retired Army veteran and Junior 
Reserve Officer Training Corps instructor, SGT Lukeala's career began 
with the JROTC at Simon Sanchez High School where he excelled as an 
expert marksman. In 2005, he enlisted in the U.S. Army soon after his 
high school graduation. He was deployed to Iraq under the Stryker 
Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division in 2007, and during his 
deployment, SGT Lukeala was wounded by an improvised explosive device 
that detonated nearby while on foot patrol. The force of the blast 
caused SGT Lukeala to suffer partial hearing loss, and he was later 
awarded the Purple Heart in recognition of his service in Iraq.

Although he sustained injuries during his previous tour in Iraq, SGT 
Lukeala continued his service to our nation with the 101st Airborne 
Division in support of operations in Afghanistan. His commitment to the 
cause of freedom and to serving our nation on multiple tours of duty is 
to be commended. On June 9, 2010, SGT Lukeala paid the ultimate 
sacrifice in answering the call of duty, and I join our community in 
mourning the loss of SGT Lukeala and, on behalf of a grateful nation, I 
offer condolences to his wife, Deniece Nave Lukeala; his daughter; his 
parents, Anthony and Dorothy Lukeala; his brother, Anthony Keoni 
Lukeala; and to his many family and friends. We will never forget the 
sacrifice SGT Lukeala made for our freedom.

May God bless the family and friends of SGT Joshua Akoni Sablan 
Lukeala, God bless Guam, and God bless the United States of America.
