---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a89b0658f01defffc4037a2a0ef397b8`
`Mr. REYES — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. REYES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 6 minutes.

I rise to express my strong support for our Nation's military and for 
the resolution before the House today. I am a proud veteran. I know 
what it is like to say good-bye to loved ones and be gone for a year, 
or 13 months, as in my case when I served in Vietnam.

I voted against authorizing the use of force against Iraq because I 
did not believe that the evidence provided by the administration, 
particularly the intelligence data, were sufficient to justify putting 
our troops in harm's way. Combat should be the last option. I know; I 
have been there.

Over 3,000 American lives later, and tens of thousands suffering 
debilitating injuries, yet we are no closer to our


goal of a secure and stable Iraq, and the situation there continues to 
deteriorate.

Our military families are paying a high price. There were a couple of 
articles in today's paper that talked about our inability to find 
common ground.

Well, I disagree. I think we find common ground because we care about 
not just our troops, but their families, our military families.

Madam Speaker, I would like to submit for the Record an e-mail from 
Sergeant Matthew Baeza



 Hello Sir, My name is SGT Matthew Baeza, currently I am 


 deployed in Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom '05-


 '07 with the C-84th ECB (H), out of Fort Richardson, AK. I am 


 an El Paso native, and have not been too big in politics 


 although I did my fair share of Democratic rallies with my 


 father Luis Baeza when I was in high school. I have met you 


 on several occasions through my father as well as when we met 


 on the steps of the Senate when I was on a High School trip 


 to DC in '99.



 My concerns are brought forward wholehearted. They do not 


 concern El Paso, but it does concern El Pasoans all over the 


 country who serve in the military and who are deployed in the 


 threatre of operations.



 Many of us in the military believe in what we do and feel 


 our mission here is warranted. The issues are not against our 


 deployments but rather the length of our deployments.



 You see, the ARMY is the only branch that will always 


 deploy with a full 12 month rotation in deployments. Other 


 branches have been cut to 6 months or even 3 months. I do 


 realize there are certain elements in the other branches that 


 serve a 12 month rotation like the ARMY.



 The issue I have is that 12 months isn't that difficult to 


 pull the first time. But into your second and third 


 deployments (some soldiers serving 4 deployments back to 


 back) it starts to break the backs of even the strongest of 


 families. Children are seeking counseling as young as 3 or 4 


 years old due to the absence of their parents, and if a 


 marriage survives, most end up seeking help from chaplains or 


 marriage counselors. Is that how we want our Service Members 


 and their families to live?



 Out of a 5 year marriage, I will have been absent 3 years, 


 and will only have known my son for 9 months, when I return 


 days from his 3rd birthday. My marriage along with hundreds 


 of other service members are quickly ending due to the amount 


 of time absent from home.



 I am not sure if surveys have been performed, but I can 


 almost guarantee you the percentage of divorces have 


 multiplied at an exponential rate. But yet talks of cutting 


 down deployments have been in the works for year but no 


 progress has been made.



 The vast majority of Armed Services members are proud every 


 day to put on our uniform and help others who cannot help 


 themselves. But at what cost? At the cost of losing the ones 


 we love. And at the end of it all we cannot place blame on 


 our spouses, for they have been holding on longer than most 


 could ever imagine.



 Our spouses run multiple lives as my wife does. As a 


 professional writer and reporter for the Anchorage Daily 


 Newspaper, a mother, FRG (Family Readiness Group) Leader, and 


 as a military spouse, my wife, she has a lot to deal with. 


 Bills, care for our child, her work, and dealing with my 


 calls home whether they be happy or sad. It is simply too 


 much to ask from anyone.



 My wife is as strong as they come, but with the last 3 


 years her patience has worn extremely thin. With us being 


 away from home, many wives end up leaving their husbands 


 searching for a better life, or long needed affection without 


 a phone, or even to become their own person again. My wife 


 told me something the other day that really hit me, ''No one 


 knows who you are, they know Megan and Dominic, and the guy 


 that keeps calling on the phone.''



 That is who we have become to our families, just a voice on 


 the phone. I am not asking to get out of this conflict. We 


 are doing well here, plus if we leave, the friends I have 


 lost here would have died in vain. I cannot have that on my 


 conscience. We all realize the good we are accomplishing 


 here, but we are losing our families over it.



 We don't try to save the world, at least I don't, that is 


 too much to ask of one person. But rather try for the ones 


 closest to us. My son and my wife. But when they are gone, 


 who is it for? Every day I am here I tell myself I do this 


 for them, and others feel the same way.



 I am not asking you to change the way things are, but 


 rather voice your opinion and raise a flag for those of us 


 that cannot. With your reputation you can influence others in 


 helping us cut our deployments to shorter periods. We are not 


 asking to leave Iraq or Afghanistan, but rather cut the time 


 away from home. When you start stacking deployments on top of 


 each other, families get broken, and when that happens, you 


 get Service Members who cannot perform. Would could when your 


 life is falling apart?



 I hope you read this and understand where I am coming from, 


 and realize I speak for a number of Soldiers, Sailors, 


 Marines, Airmen, and Coast Guardsmen who have fallen into 


 this horrible ordeal.



 Thank you sir for your time.


























Matthew Baeza,


 SGT, EN Supply Sergeant.