# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5013, IMPLEMENTING MANAGEMENT FOR  PERFORMANCE AND RELATED REFORMS TO OBTAIN VALUE IN EVERY ACQUISITION  ACT OF 2010
## `a8a78a01e375f9b90faa72e1f10d91e9`
`Ms. SLAUGHTER — 28 April 2010`

---


Ms. SLAUGHTER. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, the resolution provides a structured rule for 
consideration of H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act of 2010. The 
rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill 
except those arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. It makes in 
order the committee amendment as an original bill and provides that the 
bill shall be considered as read.

The rule waives all points of order against the committee amendment 
except those arising under clause 10 of rule XXI. The rule makes in 
order the 16 amendments printed in the Rules Committee report and 
waives all points of order against those amendments except those 
arising under clause 9 or 10 of rule XXI. The rule provides one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.

The rule provides the Chair may entertain a motion that the committee 
rise only if offered by the Chair of the Committee on Armed Services or 
a designee. The Chair may not entertain a motion to strike out the 
enacting words of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, over the years we have watched as countless stories 
revealed flaws in the military's procurement operation. Disappointment 
with the way the Department of Defense manages the money we appropriate 
it reflects poorly not just on the Pentagon, but on Congress as well. 
The $640 toilet seat is now the stuff of legend, but sadly it is often 
just the tip of the iceberg.

In recent years, excesses stemming from the ill considered rush 
towards privatization championed by the previous administration have 
become increasingly common. The push to contract out nearly every part 
of the military's mission has inevitably led to waste, fraud, and abuse 
involving some of the biggest corporate names in this country. Sadly, I 
believe that many years from now historians will associate a 
significant part of the war in Iraq with wasteful and poorly managed 
contracts that made private companies millions of dollars, billions of 
dollars, actually, often at the expense of our own men and women in 
uniform and certainly of taxpayers.

Two years ago in Congress, I was here on the floor as the House 
debated H.R. 1362, the Accountability in Contracting Act. That, too, 
was intended to save taxpayer money. Earlier in the 110th Congress, I 
worked with my friend, Ms. Schakowsky, on H.R. 897, the Iraq and 
Afghanistan Contractor Sunshine Act. I hesitate to say that those and 
other efforts towards contracting reform have been unsuccessful. 
Clearly, we have made significant reforms and part of our work in 
Congress involves regular and diligent oversight. It is a never-ending 
process.

For my part, one of my proudest efforts during my career in Congress 
has been to force the Pentagon to acknowledge that some of the testing 
done on body armor for troops during an early part of the war was 
deeply flawed. My work on this issue grew out of a 2006 audit that I 
read about in The New York Times that found that 80 percent of marines 
who had died in Iraq of upper body wounds would have survived with the 
proper body armor. I waited for other committees to take the lead, but 
no one came to the floor.

We are still working on this issue, but we have come a very long way. 
Major changes have been made in testing labs, some of them taken back 
into the Army rather than contracted out, which in this case did not 
work. Thankfully, however, the work did accomplish one thing: the 
military agreed to no more poorly managed deals for outside contractors 
to test the body armor. All current and future body armor testing will 
be conducted internally by the Department of Testing and Evaluation 
within the DOD with strict standards to ensure our troops receive 
nothing but the highest quality of body armor.

When it comes to the safety of our troops, which we send into battle, 
it is foolish to put the bid out to the lowest-priced contractor.

But today we have moved into a new chapter of oversight and reform, 
and I am happy to see it come. This morning we are bringing up an 
important piece of legislation intended to help the Pentagon reform 
inefficient procurement


operations. It's called the Implementing Management for Performance and 
Related Reforms to Obtain Value in Every Acquisition Act of 2010, 
otherwise known as the IMPROVE Act. This bill will help the Defense 
Department immediately, once this is signed, to crack down on cost 
overruns and lax oversight of contractors. Not only that, but the bill 
should help reduce our dangerous reliance oftentimes on outside 
companies to do so many varied functions on behalf of the military.

It is hard to overstate how important this bill is. My colleague, Mr. 
Conaway of Texas, who is the ranking member of the House Armed Services 
Committee Defense Acquisition Panel, offered the following testimonial 
on how urgent the need is for contracting and acquisition reform. He 
said: ''The Department of Defense is the largest agency in the Federal 
Government, owning 86 percent of the government's assets, estimated at 
$4.6 trillion. Over the last two decades, millions of dollars have been 
spent by DOD in the quest to obtain auditable financial statements.'' 
Yet getting those numbers has proven elusive, if not at times 
impossible. No more, Mr. Speaker, after this bill is signed.

This bill mandates that the Pentagon consider shifting work away from 
contractors if they don't meet the cost goals. It will set up a new 
system of cost objectives and schedules which DOD procurement officers 
would have to follow. The bill says that by 2017 Pentagon agencies must 
prepare records that can be audited and draft a new policy that 
wouldn't reward those who don't meet requirements. These are simple, 
sensible reforms that the American people can understand and 
appreciate.



No matter what anyone in Congress thinks of the ongoing wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq, all of us know that the men and women who are 
serving overseas rely on the equipment, and they deserve to know that 
the funds for their equipment are not being squandered and that they 
are given equipment of the highest quality.

Another bright note on this legislation is that, when it was approved 
by the Armed Services Committee, the vote was 56-0. Such bipartisanship 
is rare in the House these days, and I am happy to speak on a bill that 
all of us can agree on. Although there is not currently any pending 
movement on the bill in the Senate, it is my hope a decisive and strong 
bipartisan vote today on this bill will spur the Senate into action. 
Billions of taxpayer dollars and the trust of our troops depend on it.

I reserve the balance of my time.