---
---

# HONORING STAFF SERGEANT LILLIAN CLAMENS
## `a8a72d352c233b9209b67c80634997ff`
`Mr. MARIO DIAZ-BALART of Florida — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. MARIO DIAZ-BALART of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise today in 
honor of Staff Sergeant Lillian Clamens, who was killed in Iraq on 
October 10, 2 days before she was scheduled to come home, when 
insurgents launched a rocket attack on her unit. I want to extend my 
deepest condolences to her husband, Raymond, her three children, 
Victoria, Alana, and Ayinde, her parents and all of her family and 
friends.

Staff Sergeant Clamens was a true American patriot devoted to her 
family and her country. She served in the Army Reserve for more than 15 
years and was assigned to the 1st Postal Platoon, 834th Adjutant 
General Company, in Miami. Prior to her deployment, she worked as an 
administrative clerk at the U.S. Southern Command in Doral.

She exemplified the best our Nation has to offer: a loving mother of 
three children, a devoted wife, and a soldier selflessly committed to 
serving our country.

Madam Speaker, her life will continue to inspire all those who knew 
her and many who frankly did not know her. The United States and our 
world is a far better place because of her service. The best way to 
honor her is to replicate her devotion to her country and her family.

She gave the ultimate sacrifice to help defend our freedoms and 
advance liberty for so many others. She was a true American hero whose 
dedication to freedom and family, Madam Speaker, made a difference in 
this world. I join all Americans in expressing my deepest sympathies to 
the family and friends of Staff Sergeant Lillian Clamens. Her 
commitment to, and sacrifice for, our great Nation will never be 
forgotten. She has the deepest gratitude and devotion of our Nation.
