---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009--MOTION TO  PROCEED
## `a8a9286adadf3fdff41c7af0b4722428`
`Mr. REID — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, 92 times this session, which is now in its 
19th month, Senate Republicans have filibustered critical legislation, 
everything and anything to maintain the status quo. Of course, it is an 
all-time record, 92 filibusters. It is more than 100 percent of what 
has been done in a full Congress--that is 2 years--and this has been 
done in a year and a half.

For those unfamiliar with the language of the Senate, a filibuster is 
a stall tactic to give a Senator more time, but it prevents the Senate 
from debating legislation. A filibuster is not a ''no'' vote in the 
true sense of the word. It is an objection to even having a vote. A 
filibuster cuts off debate before there can even be a vote. Most 
importantly, it cuts off negotiation and compromise.

Ninety-two times and more than 100 percent than has ever been done 
before, Republicans have filibustered America's priorities. Republicans 
have shown no favoritism on whom their filibusters harm the most. They 
have filibustered our troops, veterans, children, working families, 
small businesses, elderly, disabled, and recently stroke victims, those 
suffering from paralysis, those suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease. 
The list is endless. Not a single American has escaped the harm of a 
Republican filibuster in this, the 110th Congress.

Perhaps our country has been most damaged by Republicans blocking us 
from addressing the energy crisis. CNN issued the results of a poll 
they took over a couple days very recently. Here is how the American 
people feel about major causes of high gas prices:

No. 1, U.S. oil companies. Is that any surprise with the record 
profits being reported today by Exxon?

No. 2, foreign oil producers, OPEC mainly.

And, of course, speculators.

One, oil companies; two, oil producers; three, speculators, and new 
demand from other countries, and the American people are very 
perceptive. We know there is a tremendous demand from India and China.

No. 5, a major cause of higher gas prices, the Bush administration.

No. 6, the war in Iraq.

So if you only heard the faint outrage of our Republican colleagues, 
you might think it is the Democrats who spent the past 2 years blocking 
every effort to lower gas prices and reduce our dependence on oil. But 
the exact opposite is true. Republicans may talk about high gas prices 
and oil prices today, but they are late to the party and they have 
shown up empty-handed.

The one idea they have come up with lately is more coastline 
drilling. But we all know it won't have any significant impact on 
prices, and some say in more than 20 years. That is according to the 
Bush-Cheney administration, which says the change in price will be in 
the year 2027.

Yesterday, in the New York Times and in newspapers all over America, 
the most syndicated columnist in America, Tom Friedman, wrote as 
follows:




 Republicans have become so obsessed with the notion that we 


 can drill our way out of the current energy crisis that 


 reopening our coastal waters to offshore drilling has become 


 their answer for every energy question.



 Anyone who looks at the growth of middle classes around the 


 world and their rising demands for natural resources, plus 


 the dangers of the climate change driven by our addiction to 


 fossil fuels, can see clean renewable energy--wind, solar, 


 nuclear, and stuff we haven't yet invented--is going to be 


 the next great global industry. It has to be if we are going 


 to grow in a stable way.


Friedman went on to say:




 Therefore, the country that most owns the clean power 


 industry is going to most own the next great technological 


 breakthrough--the ET revolution, the energy technology 


 revolution--and create millions of jobs and thousands of new 


 businesses, just like the IT revolution did.



 Republicans, by mindlessly repeating their offshore-


 drilling mantra, focusing on a 19th-century fuel, remind me 


 of someone back in 1980 arguing we should be putting all our 


 money into making more and cheaper IBM Selectric 


 typewriters--and forget about these things called the ''PC'' 


 and ''the Internet.'' It is a strategy for making America a 


 second-rate power and economy.


He is not only the most well-read and the most well-spread columnist 
in America today but a man who is a prize winner for his best selling 
books, and his books are so tremendous because they see the world as it 
is going to be, not as it now is.

Their one idea, more coastline drilling, is not the answer. It is no 
wonder Senator McCain said the plan was purely psychological, the 
Republican plan for more coastal drilling is psychological.

This morning we came to the Senate floor. We were going to offer some 
consent agreements, but the time was inconvenient. I did not want to 
use leader time and throw off the sequence of time we had. So we are 
here this afternoon to offer Republicans yet another chance to end 
their obstruction and do the right thing. We will offer unanimous 
consent requests on seven Energy bills, each one of which is extremely 
important, a package of bills that would lower the price we pay at the 
pump while applying for the long-time transition away from oil and 
toward clean renewable fuels of the future Tom Friedman talked about.



If past is prolog, Republicans will object to each of these 
proposals. If they do, and they probably will, it will be clear again 
for all Americans to see which party wants to only talk about our 
energy crisis and which party wants to solve it.

The first I would like to offer is S. 3044, the Consumer-First Energy 
Act. This is a very thoughtful piece of legislation which ends billions 
of dollars of tax breaks for big oil companies, and if there is ever an 
opportunity to recognize why they are unnecessary, look at those 
profits today and what they do with those profits. Do they do new 
energy exploration? No. Do they invest in renewables? No. They buy back 
their stock.

It was announced today they made last quarter, Exxon alone, about $12 
billion. S. 3044 would force oil companies to invest some of their 
massive profits in clean, alternative affordable fuels rather than 
buying back their stock. S. 3044 would protect the American people from 
price gouging and profiteering. It would also stand up to 
OPEC countries that are colluding to keep prices high.


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the 
immediate consideration of Calendar No. 743, S. 3044, the Consumer-
First Energy Act; that the bill be read three times, passed, and the 
motion to reconsider be laid upon the table; and that any statements 
relating to this bill be printed in the Record, as if given.