---
---

# AFGHANISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `a8abe32752291513dba6c0a73e3f3b6b`
`Mr. BERMAN — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the resolution, and 
I yield myself 4 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to say I have quite enjoyed working 
with the gentleman from Ohio on this issue and a number of the issues 
we have had dealings with since I have become chairman, and I 
fundamentally agree with him and other supporters of the resolution 
that it is right for the House to have an open, honest debate on the 
merits of our ongoing military operations in Afghanistan, and outside, 
outside, the context of a defense spending bill or a supplemental 
appropriations bill. This is a good thing to be doing.

By vesting the power to declare war with the Congress, the Founders 
intended the United States would go to war only when absolutely 
necessary, and it is incumbent on this body to consider as thoroughly 
as possible the purpose and ongoing necessity of committing U.S. forces 
to battle.

Now, as a procedural matter, I take issue with the invocation of 
section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution as the basis for this debate, 
because that section authorizes a privileged resolution, like the one 
before us today, to require the withdrawal of combat forces when 
Congress has not authorized the use of military force.

There really can't be any doubt that Congress authorized U.S. 
military action in Afghanistan. The authorization for the use of 
military force passed by Congress in late September 2001 explicitly 
empowers the President to use force against the terrorists responsible 
for the 9/11 attacks and those who harbored them. President Obama is 
doing just that.

But putting aside procedure, the notion that at this particular 
moment we would demand a complete withdrawal of our troops from 
Afghanistan by the end of the year, without regard to the consequence 
of our withdrawal, without regard to the situation on the ground, 
including efforts to promote economic development, expand the rule of 
law, and without any measurement of whether the ''hold'' strategy now 
being implemented is indeed working, I don't think is the responsible 
thing to do.

Our troops are fighting a complex nexus of terrorist organizations--
al Qaeda, the Taliban--all of which threaten the stability of the 
Afghan Government, and they have demonstrated their ability to strike 
our homeland. If we withdraw from Afghanistan before the government 
there is capable of providing a basic level of security for its own 
people, we face the prospect that the Taliban once again will take the 
reins of power in Kabul and provide safe haven to al Qaeda. That would 
be a national security disaster.



I am keenly aware that even if we remain in Afghanistan, and here I 
want to emphasize this, there is no guarantee we will prevail in this 
fight. But if we don't try, we are guaranteed to fail.

President Obama has taken a very deliberative approach. He has 
examined numerous options over the course of several months and 
consulted with all relevant military leaders and allies. He really left 
no stone unturned and no issue unvetted as part of this review. He 
deserves an opportunity now to implement his strategy. He has given us 
the timeline for when he expects to see results, and there will be a 
reassessment of our strategy in 18 months.

General McChrystal, the commander of the U.S. and international 
forces, indicated that we have made progress since the new strategy was 
announced on December 1. We are witnessing the first major joint NATO-
Afghanistan military operation in the city of Marja, considered a 
strategic fulcrum for ridding the region of the Taliban.

Our troops are working side by side with their Afghan counterparts. 
They retook Marja in 3 weeks of hard but well-executed efforts. They 
are making the Afghan people their number one priority, which is the 
basis for this counterinsurgency strategy. And to that end, the State 
Department and USAID have been working very hard to develop a concrete 
governance and development strategy.

I was here during the frenzied debate following 9/11 when Congress 
authorized the use of force against those responsible for the horrors 
of that day and those who chose to provide the perpetrators a safe 
haven.