# CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 4137, HIGHER EDUCATION OPPORTUNITY ACT
## `a8ae28e0d69f3dc7fa53579ba6bff55e`
`Mr. DINGELL — 31 July 2008`

---


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, today the House is voting on the conference 
report for H.R. 4137, the Higher Education Opportunity Act. I want to 
thank my dear friend Senator Kennedy for all of his hard work on this 
bill.

Like our fuel and food, college tuition prices continue to rise, 
making a college degree unaffordable for many of our constituents. If 
Congress is serious about helping our country through this economic 
downturn, we must provide our young people with the tools and resources 
to be successful now and in an increasingly global economy.

Back home in Michigan, we are facing higher and higher unemployment 
rates. Many are forced to look to a new career field after a plant 
closes, and others are simply having a hard time transferring the 
skills they learned from their previous career to a new one. I want to 
do everything I can to help the citizens of Michigan's 15th 
Congressional District through this tough time and I believe that 
access to a college education is one way to do so.

Many of you have probably heard from constituents who have had 
trouble navigating the federal student aid program or difficulty 
filling out the extensive application forms. The last thing we want is 
to discourage anyone from attending college merely because they find 
the


federal aid process confusing or overwhelming.

H.R. 4137 proposes to streamline the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid (FAFSA) in order to make it easier for students and their 
families to navigate. This will be done by cutting the number of 
questions of the FAFSA form in half and allowing applicants to save 
their information rather than re-filing a new form each year. It will 
also allow students and their families to determine their Expected 
Family Contribution and their federal student aid package prior to 
college so that families can plan accordingly.

For those of us with children and grandchildren, we all know how 
expensive a college education can be. Back home in Michigan, over 
143,000 students take out need-based loans each year. While this bill 
will not cover the cost of a college education, it will help to make 
the costs a little more manageable by increasing the value of the Pell 
grant. H.R. 4137 will increase the maximum Pell grant increase from the 
current level of $5,800 to $8,000 by the 2014 school year. More 
importantly, this bill will allow students access to Pell grants year 
round, ensuring that students who are going to school part-time will 
have access to this aid.

For those many students who do rely on student loans to pay for 
school, this legislation will ensure that lenders are serving the best 
interests of our students. This will be done by requiring higher 
education institutions and lenders to adopt strict codes of conduct and 
ban all gifts and revenue sharing agreements between institutions and 
lenders. Lenders will now also be required to provide students with 
full and fair information about their loans before they sign on the 
dotted line, as well as be informed by the lenders of all borrowing 
options available to them when taking out and repaying loans.

This legislation will increase aid to our veterans and military 
personnel. The veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan have served our 
country honorably and it is our duty to ensure that they have access to 
a college education should they desire to return to school. I know 
colleges across the country have seen increases in the enrollment of 
veterans; however, many do not have the resources to give the veterans 
the support they need. This is frankly unacceptable and this 
legislation will help correct this problem.

H.R. 4137 will create a scholarship program that could award up to 
$5,000 for veterans, their spouses, or their children enrolled in 
college. It will also create support centers on college campuses 
designed to coordinate services and assist veterans with enrollment and 
completion of their degrees. More importantly, H.R. 4137 will ensure 
that veterans are not penalized by their financial contributions to 
their GI benefits in the financial aid process.

This bill will reward students who enter public service fields in 
areas of high-need by establishing a $10,000 loan forgiveness program 
for individuals who study to become nurses; early childhood educators; 
librarians; teachers; school counselors; public sector employees; 
medical specialists; among other career fields.

Madam Speaker, as the federal representative of a number of great 
universities and colleges in my district, I want to ensure that my 
constituents are able to take advantage of the education these fine 
institutions provide. However, with Michigan's economy struggling, many 
students are forced to forego college altogether in favor of working to 
support their families and pay their bills. Over the August district 
work period I look forward to going home to these constituents and 
telling them that a college education can still be an option. I want to 
tell them that Congress is willing to increase federal aid for 
students. I want to tell them that Congress is going to make the 
federal aid application process simpler and easier for them. And at the 
end of the day, I want to tell my constituents that H.R. 4137 was 
signed into law. I urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this 
legislation, let us all show our constituents that access to a college 
education is a top priority for Congress.