---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 2206, U.S.  TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ  ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007
## `a8af9dc33e2c32591c2a5a5d15a2af5a`
`Mr. DREIER — 24 May 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this rule, and I express 
my appreciation to my very good friend, the distinguished Chair of the 
Committee on Rules, the gentlewoman from Rochester, for yielding me the 
customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I have to begin by saying how greatly saddened I am by 
the opening statement that was just delivered by the Chair of the 
Committee on Rules. Using the word ''failure'' to describe what has 
taken place in Iraq is, to me, as we head into this Memorial Day 
weekend, an extraordinarily sad message for our courageous men and 
women who are on the frontline in this struggle against global 
terrorism.

Mr. Speaker, I have to tell you that we just got the news this 
morning of the death of Joseph Anzack who was one of the three troops 
in Iraq who was kidnapped, and as we think about this Memorial Day 
weekend, to say to those men and women who are there on the frontline 
that this is a failure, I believe, is a horrible, horrible message, and 
I'm greatly troubled that those words would emanate from the floor of 
the House of Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, it has taken the Democratic leadership four tries, and 
as my very good friend from California (Mr. Daniel E. Lungren) said in 
his 1-


minute speech, more than 100 days since the President's request that 
they have finally agreed to vote on an emergency supplemental 
appropriations bill that gives our troops the funding they need without 
tying their hands and ensuring their defeat.

Mr. Speaker, no matter how many times my friend from Rochester, the 
distinguished Chair of the Committee on Rules, is saying that they have 
lost, saying that they have failed and saying that defeat is imminent, 
the passage of this funding bill will help very much to ensure that 
that is not the case.

I'm extremely proud that we have been able to hold the line on the 
disastrous proposal and this notion that somehow we have lost and we 
have failed in the struggle against terrorism. Unfortunately, though, 
at this point in the debate, we can't be totally certain about what it 
is exactly that we're agreeing upon, particularly in the case, Mr. 
Speaker, of the additional spending.



Now, let me explain why. For several years, there has been concern 
from both sides of the aisle about the lack of availability of the text 
of bills and conference reports. That concern has been raised by both 
Democrats and Republicans on a regular basis.

I would like to briefly, for our colleagues, outline a timeline for 
how this rule we are debating at this moment was produced. Last night, 
the Committee on Rules adjourned at roughly 8:45 p.m. after reporting 
the rule on lobbying reform, which we will be considering in a little 
while.

Then members of the Rules Committee patiently waited until 11 p.m., 
when we were notified the text of the supplemental agreement wouldn't 
be ready until the early morning hours and that the Rules Committee 
would hold an emergency meeting at 7 a.m.

The text of the Obey amendments were then circulated to the Rules 
Committee members at 5:39 this morning, just a few hours ago; 5:39 this 
morning, less than 1/1/2/ hours before we convened the Rules Committee. 
The text of the amendments were not posted publicly on the committee's 
Web site until around the time we actually met.

Now we are here considering the rule, which makes in order language 
which spends $119.99999 billion, less than 4 hours after it was 
actually submitted.

I remember my very good friend from Rochester (Ms. Slaughter) 
regularly saying that we needed to be provided with 24 hours notice. 
This clearly is a far cry from what was promised at the beginning of 
this Congress.

This language may very well represent the agreement between the 
House, the Senate and the administration. However, there is no way for 
us to know this, because there has been no time to thoroughly read the 
language and verify.

Unfortunately, as most Members must at this point, I shall have to 
proceed under an assumption. I must say that I am very concerned about 
the negative impact the ongoing surrender debate has had in Iraq, both 
in terms of the morale of our troops and our credibility with the Iraqi 
people. I am concerned about the impact that this delay in funding has 
had on our military as well.

But, ultimately, we have succeeded in ensuring that this body has the 
opportunity to fund our troops without simultaneously handing the 
terrorists a date certain for our surrender. While this process, this 
political process has played out, I talked a great deal about what the 
consequences would be if we were to abandon the Iraqis to the 
terrorists. And, of course, al Qaeda has taken responsibility for the 
murder of Mr. Anzack, whom I mentioned, Joseph Anzack.

They clearly are in the midst of their drive. We also are hoping very 
much that we can see this fledgling democracy take hold. That is why 
what we are going to be doing here, providing that necessary support, 
helps us in that quest, but there is no need to take my word in this 
matter. We are hearing repeatedly, repeatedly from our people on the 
ground, from the Iraqi leadership and from the Iraqi people, that 
withdrawing before our mission is complete would have terrible 
consequences.

Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations, Feisal Amin al-Istrabadi, 
has implored us not to leave. I would like to quote Iraq's ambassador 
to the United Nations. ''We are at war together,'' he recently said. 
''We are allied at war together against a common enemy. We have one way 
forward: together.''

In a recent interview with the New York Post, he talked about the 
troop surge and pointed to the progress that is being made because of 
it. At this critical juncture, Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations 
believes we should be redoubling our efforts and pressing forward, not 
debating a withdrawal at the precise moment that progress is being 
made.

Every Member of this body knew at the beginning of this process that 
the President would never sign a withdrawal bill. The President said 
it, and the President says what he means, and he means what he says.

Unfortunately, as Mr. Lungren pointed out in his 1-minute speech 
earlier, the weeks and weeks of pointless debate on our surrender date 
have clearly taken their toll in Iraq. As Ambassador al-Istrabadi 
points out, and I quote, ''It's been very painful to watch the 
political process in Washington, because it seems to have very little 
to do with Iraq.'' He says that al Qaeda has been following this debate 
closely. The ambassador says, ''There are real enemies who are watching 
the debate, who understand what's happening here and who think they can 
affect the outcome of the debate.''

He is baffled, as I am baffled, that the Democratic leadership could 
even consider playing right into the terrorists' hands. How on earth 
could we even contemplate giving them what they want and turning the 
country and the region over to them?

I understand many Americans just want this war to be over. I want 
this war to be over, too. I would like nothing more. I would like 
nothing more than to be able to tell the people whom I am honored to 
represent here that their husbands and wives and sons and daughters and 
brothers and sisters are going to be coming home tomorrow.

The problem is that, even if we were to withdraw from Iraq, the war 
would not magically be over. We can pick up and go home. We can turn 
off our TV sets and ignore what is taking place over there. But the war 
will still go on. The terrorists will continue their battle for Iraq 
and for the region; only, this time, we would not be there to stop 
them.

We would not be there to train and strengthen the Iraqi Army and 
police forces or to help strengthen those democratic institutions.

I have to say that I am particularly proud of the work that our House 
Democracy Assistance Commission is doing. David Price of North Carolina 
has chaired this effort, and we are hoping to be able to include Iraq's 
parliament as we work in consultation to help them build this fledgling 
democracy.

Before long, I have no doubt whatsoever that the war would make its 
way to our doorstep once again. We ignored a growing terrorist haven 
once before, and we suffered the worst attack on our soil because of 
it.

I was very proud during the decade of the 1980s to work with a number 
of our colleagues in providing the assistance to the Mujahedin who were 
fighting to liberate their country of Afghanistan from the Soviet 
Union. When that was over, we left and did virtually nothing to help 
build a democracy.

Did Afghanistan teach us anything? Did September 11 teach us nothing? 
Burying our heads in the sand is not an effective defense. The 
consequences of abandoning our mission in Iraq would be even graver 
than the consequences of ignoring the growing terrorist threat that 
took place during the decade of the 1990s in Afghanistan. This time, 
not only would the terrorists establish another safe haven from which 
to operate their global terror network, they would, and I quote, 
''erect a triumphant monument on the ruins of American power,'' as the 
American Enterprise Institute scholar Frederick Kagan said.

We simply cannot and will not strengthen the hands of terrorists who 
have made the destruction of America their number one priority. We 
cannot and will not abandon the Iraqis to be butchered by these 
terrorists in their midst. We cannot and will not abandon our mission 
just as real progress is starting to be made.

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


