---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a8b76e42e97ae2095ac457145d051d4f`
`Mr. HINCHEY — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HINCHEY. Madam Speaker, as a veteran of the United States Navy, I 
am very, very honored to be a Member of this House of Representatives. 
And today I am very proud and pleased to stand here in support of this 
very important resolution, which needs to be adopted as the final first 
step of this Congress in dealing with this unjust, illegal, unnecessary 
invasion of Iraq and the subsequent disastrous occupation.

In October of 2002, when the resolution authorizing this invasion 
came to the floor, 133 Members voted against it. 127 Democrats and six 
Republicans voted against it. Most of us voted against it because we 
knew that the so-called logic or rationale that had been presented by 
the administration was untrue, that there was no connection between 
Iraq and the attack of September 11, that there was no evidence that 
there were chemical or biological weapons left in Iraq, even though we 
know that previous administrations of this country had supplied those 
weapons.

We knew that the rationale presented for the development of a nuclear 
weapon in Iraq was completely falsified. The documents were forged.



On the 19th of March, this administration carried out an illegal, 
unnecessary, unjustified invasion of Iraq. We will soon mark the fourth 
year of that action. In all of that time, this Congress has done 
nothing significant or substantial to stand in the way of the illegal, 
unjustified actions of this administration, in spite of the fact that 
they have caused the death of now more than 3,000 American servicemen 
and women, more than 23,000 physically injured, unknown numbers 
psychologically injured, hundreds of thousands of Iraqi civilians 
killed.

In spite of all of that, and in spite of the fact that, increasingly, 
every Member of this Congress has begun to understand with greater and 
greater clarity, how the information was falsified, how what the 
Intelligence Committees told the White House, the Department, the State 
Department, and others in this administration, had been twisted and 
distorted and turned around purposely and specifically to carry out 
this disastrous invasion and subsequent occupation, nothing has been 
done.

The previous leadership of this Congress failed to step forward and 
take any kind of action against this administration. And we hear people 
on this side of the aisle, tonight, speaking against this resolution 
saying it doesn't do anything significant. It doesn't do enough.

Well, let me tell you something. This is the first step of a new 
majority in this Congress taking the right kind of action on the basis 
of our obligations and responsibilities under the Constitution to stand 
up to the actions of this administration and to put this country back 
on the right track. Not just in the case of what is going on in Iraq, 
even though that is so terribly disastrous, but the consequences here 
in our own country, the intimidation of people, the internal spying, 
the elimination of habeas corpus, all of the impingements on the 
American Constitution, based upon the culture of fear cultivated 
purposely by this administration for their own personal and political 
objectives. No one in the previous leadership, no one in the previous 
majority, stood up to this administration in any kind of a constructive 
way.

So, if you want to correct the failures that have existed in this 
Congress since that resolution came to the floor and since the 19th of 
March in 2003, when this administration carried out that illegal, 
unnecessary and unjustified invasion, then you will support this 
resolution, recognizing that it is the first important step taken by a 
new majority here in this Congress to deal with the consequences of all 
of that falsehood.

If you fail to do so, you will continue to leave the door open for 
further violations of law and constitutional principles by this 
administration, perhaps next in Iran, because that may be the next 
illegal step of this administration.

If you want to make up for what you failed to do, if you want to do 
the right thing for this country, for our people, and for our military 
personnel, please, support this resolution.