# None
## `a8b88f17c7db5e9d9abb3a3f157e79b2`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 23 January 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate how the gentleman has 
been focused on bipartisanship over the past several weeks since we 
have been here.

I agree with my friend from Florida on several issues. Just to go 
back a few seconds, to talk about what is going on in Iraq and what 
really the President's plan has been, and I think it is important that 
we remove this from any kind of partisanship.

As we have shown in the past couple weeks here, I mean, the votes 
that we have passed here have consistently been passed in a bipartisan 
way. Minimum wage, student loans, Medicare and negotiations, all of 
these have been passed in a bipartisan way. So the tone that Speaker 
Pelosi has set in this House has been a tone of bipartisanship.

The concern that we have in Iraq at this point with the troop surge 
is that this President does not have the support of the American 
people. He does not have the support of the Democratic Party. He is 
losing support among the Republican Party, and the former Chair of the 
Senate Committee on Armed Services, John Warner, has now come out 
against the President's proposal. The military, for the most part, is 
against this proposal. It seems like almost everyone who was in the 
Bush administration who had been in the military under this Commander 
in Chief and has left is now against what the President is saying. The 
Iraqi leadership is against it.

The only people who are for this is the administration, and I think 
it is important for us to recognize that we need to get out in a way 
that makes sure that we retain our dignity and that we redeploy. No 
one's talking about cutting and running, but redeploy in a responsible 
way and getting our kids out of harm's way, because this has been 
botched from the get-go.

But I think it is important, and I appreciate you consistently 
focusing. We have talked for 3/1/2/ or 4 years about if we get in 
charge we are going to do it in a bipartisan way, and we have been able 
to maintain that over the past couple of weeks, and I think it is 
important that we continue to go down that road.

If you look at, and I do not want to talk too long because I know my 
friend has an interest in joining, I want to look at the, Mr. Speaker, 
first 100 hours, at what we have been able to.

Okay. This has kind of gone in two different directions. Pass the 
minimum wage, reduce student loan interest rates, cut them in half, and 
allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate down drug 
prices. So if you are an average family, those are three major steps 
forward where you are going to make more money, if you have a minimum-
wage worker, where you have less student loans to pay because the 
interest rate is going to be cut in half, and the prescription drug 
prices that your parents and grandparents are paying will be a lot 
less. So


that is going to be significant savings in the short term.

But now we have our long-term program, and if you look at where the 
Democratic Party and Speaker Pelosi is pushing our agenda, we have 
investments into stem cell research, which is something that we passed 
in this Chamber just a few days ago, that we are going to invest into 
this new and great and vibrant industry and new sector of our economy 
that is not only going to reap tremendous health care benefits for our 
citizens but also provide jobs for our scientists and our researchers 
and funding the research and development and partnering with private 
sector people.


That is going to create an economic boom in the United States of 
America because once we pass it, if we can get it past the President, 
that is going to be a heck of a move on our part. I think it is going 
to be great for the American people, and it is going to be great for 
the next generation of people coming out of college and coming out of 
medical school and getting their Ph.D.s. We are going to have a whole 
other sector of the economy.

In addition to the repealing of the corporate welfare, which I know 
you had talked a lot about on this floor the past couple of years, 
repealing the corporate welfare that we gave to the oil companies and 
the energy companies and putting that money into research for 
alternative energy sources, creating and pushing a whole other sector 
of our economy so that we do not depend on the Middle East for our 
energy, we got it right in the Midwest in the United States of America.

So we are stabilizing. We are taking care of people today. We are 
giving the American people a pay raise, cutting student loan interest 
rates in half, reducing the cost of prescription drugs now, and then in 
the future moving into these two major growth areas of alternative 
energy and stem cell research and into the health care industry.

I think Leader Pelosi and Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Clyburn and Mr. Larson 
and Mr. Emanuel have all set an agenda for the Democrats in the House 
to do some good in the short term and then to open up these other areas 
of the economy in the long term.

So with that I would be happy to yield back to my good friend, my 
dear friend from Florida (Mr. Meek).