---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `a8c09914254cf92b1d6d295c92e2a6d2`
`Mr. DREIER — 25 April 2007`

---


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, just a few weeks ago we lost a very dear 
friend of mine, one of our Nation's great former leaders, a woman who 
was a lifelong Democrat, and in 1984 she became a Republican when she 
addressed the Republican National Convention. Her name was Jeane 
Kirkpatrick; she served as Ronald Reagan's ambassador to the United 
Nations.

I will never forget the speech that she delivered at our party 
convention in 1984. She quoted the contemporary French writer, Jean-
Francois Revel, who said, ''Clearly, a civilization that feels guilty 
for everything that it is and does will lack the energy and conviction 
to defend itself.''

Mr. Speaker, I was struck with that because that was at a time when 
there were many people who were maligning the United States of America; 
they said that we had gone to hell in a handbag. They were attacking 
all of the policies of Ronald Reagan, tax cuts which were ruining the 
country. And I have to say that on a regular basis, Mr. Speaker, I 
continue to hear the same kind of criticism, and yet we have what is 
obviously the greatest Nation the world has ever known.

Today, the Dow Jones Industrial Average crashed through 13,000. We 
saw last month 185,000 new jobs created, an unemployment rate of 4.4 
percent. It is amazing that during this very difficult time in which we 
are trying to successfully prosecute the war on terror, we are enjoying 
such success because of the greatness of the United States of America 
and because of our people.

I am very proud of the record that we have put forward, and I am 
saddened regularly when I hear people malign us. And now we have this 
debate, we have this debate, which led, as was said by my friend from 
Marietta and by the gentleman from Dallas, the statement by the 
majority leader of the United States Senate that this war has been 
lost. I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, I believe that the American people 
are convinced that we can be successful.

I know that there are many who today are critical of the fact that we 
have gone to war. People are very upset about the fact that we have 
gone into Iraq. I happen to still at this moment believe that we did 
the right thing, but I know there are many people who have said that it 
was the wrong thing. And I've had constituents who have come up to me. 
In fact, just over this most recent district work period, I was at 
numerous meetings in California and a number of people came to me and 
they said, you know, I didn't support our going into Iraq, I think it 
was a mistake, but the fact of the matter is we are where we are. We 
have our men and women in uniform who are in Iraq.

We have seen elections take place in Iraq. We know the threat that 
continues to exist from Iran, Syria, Hezbollah, Hamas, al Qaeda, you 
can go right down the line. And people have said we want to figure out 
a way for victory. I've had people who said we shouldn't have gone into 
Iraq say to me, we need to figure out a way that we can be victorious. 
And the word ''victory'' is one that unfortunately we really haven't 
heard from the other side of the aisle. In fact, one of the questions 
asked today at the briefing with General Petraeus is, how do we define 
what victory is? Well, it is really twofold. It still is. It is, Mr. 
Speaker, an Iraq that can defend itself. And General Petraeus said to 
us today that there are members of the Iraqi Security Forces who are 
fighting and dying for their country, those are the exact words that he 
used, and an Iraq that can govern itself, Mr. Speaker.

We understand the fragility of this government, with the Shia, Sunni 
and Kurdish populations and the challenges that Prime Minister Maliki 
faces, but we do believe that we can be successful because we have to 
be successful.

Now we have gone through this process and we have heard people say on 
both sides of the aisle that we want to make sure that we get funding 
to our troops. Mr. Speaker, the best way for us to get funding to our 
troops is to defeat this rule and defeat the conference report. Why? 
Everyone has acknowledged that the President of the United States will 
veto a bill that guarantees failure, which is what this bill would do 
by establishing these arbitrary deadlines for withdrawal. So we have 
all acknowledged that the President is going to veto the bill.

Mr. Speaker, why don't we make sure that our troops have the support 
that everyone has said that they need by not going through the 
challenge of the Presidential veto, the time-consuming process of the 
Presidential veto, having this bill go to the other body to be 
considered tomorrow. Let's defeat it right now, defeat the rule. And if 
we don't defeat the rule, at least defeat the conference report itself 
so that we can immediately get down to work. When we do that, Mr. 
Speaker, I hope very much that we won't have a small cadre of 
individuals within the Democratic leadership preventing Democrats and 
Republicans from participating in this very important process to make 
sure that we have everything that is necessary so that the American 
people, who want victory, can in fact see victory achieved.

Mr. Speaker, with that, I yield back the balance of my time.