---
---

# None
## `a8c4327590c304ed653b491ad6f868b8`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 9 October 2007`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Speaker, I submit for the Record a statement 
from Stuart W. Bowen, Jr., Special Inspector General for Iraq 
Reconstruction.

 Statement of Stuart W. Bowen Jr., Special Inspector General for Iraq 

 Reconstruction, Before the United States House of Representatives 

 Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and 













 Homeland Security




War Profiteering and Other Contractor Crimes Committed Overseas









(Tuesday, June 19, 2007, Washington, DC)




 Chairman Scott, Ranking Member Forbes, and members of the 


 Subcommittee, thank you for this opportunity to address you 


 today on the work of the Office of the Special Inspector 


 General for Iraq Reconstruction.



 To ensure accurate context, permit me to outline several 


 points essential to understanding the challenges of 


 investigating and prosecuting fraud in Iraq.



 First, corruption within the Iraqi government, indeed 


 within the fabric of Iraqi society, is a serious problem that 


 inhibits progress on many fronts in Iraq. This is widely 


 recognized by the Government of Iraq and the international 


 community. In our quarterly reports, SIGIR has called Iraq's 


 endemic corruption problem a ''second insurgency.''



 I returned last month from my 16th trip to Iraq and, during 


 my visit, I met with the Commissioner of Public Integrity, 


 who heads the institution created by the CPA to increase 


 accountability for public corruption in Iraq--and the 


 President of the Board of Supreme Audit, the analogue to the 


 Government Accountability Office, which has existed in Iraq 


 for many decades. The Iraqi anti-corruption authorities again 


 emphasized to me the widespread nature of the problem of 


 corruption, which stretches across the government, afflicting 


 virtually every ministry. And they outlined for me the 


 difficulties they face in implementing their respective anti-


 corruption mandates.



 The CPI Commissioner told me that he currently has 2,000 


 cases involving $5 billion in alleged corruption. And the 


 President of the Board of Supreme Audit has hundreds of 


 audits ongoing. In virtually every case, he is uncovering a 


 lack of accountability. Let me emphasize that the CPI and the 


 BSA oversee Iraqi money--not U.S. money--that is missing or 


 has been stolen from Iraqi programs.



 During my visit, I was informed about political 


 interference with the work of Iraqi investigators and 


 prosecutors. For example, I learned that Ministers and former 


 Ministers are exempt from prosecution unless the assent of 


 the Prime Minister is obtained; and each Minister is 


 entitled, under an Iraqi criminal code provision, to immunize 


 selectively ministry employees from being held accountable 


 for corruption.



 Iraq must make progress on rule of law enforcement, in 


 general, and corruption, in particular; political 


 interference with fighting corruption remains a problem, 


 undermining the effectiveness of the developing rule of law 


 system and consequently eroding the Iraqi people's confidence 


 in their government.



 Iraq is a sovereign state. The role of the United States 


 thus is to encourage the development of an efficient Iraqi 


 justice system. We do this for its own sake and for the sake 


 of maintaining and building upon the efforts made, at great 


 cost in blood and treasure, by Americans and Iraqis since the 


 liberation of Iraq.



 SIGIR's specific role in this process has been to review 


 the effectiveness of United States efforts to improve the 


 rule of law system and to build up the corruption-fighting 


 capacity of the Iraqi government.



 On July 28, 2006, SIGIR released a survey on this subject 


 and found that American efforts were funded at a very modest 


 level, given the scope of the problem, receiving about $65 


 million (about three-tenths of 1 percent of our total 


 reconstruction spending). My auditors found that American 


 efforts have not been sufficiently coordinated and focused 


 and that more adequate leadership and organization was 


 needed. The U.S. Embassy has responded to some of these 


 concerns since the review was released. SIGIR will soon 


 release another review on the issue, updating our previous 


 report.



 SIGIR has a continuing investigative responsibility to 


 detect and investigate malfeasance in American relief and 


 reconstruction programs in Iraq. As part of this effort, we 


 have developed good working-level and leadership-level 


 relationships with the CPI and the BSA. We coordinate with 


 these Iraqi agencies whenever we come across evidence of 


 potential wrongdoing by Iraqis. SIGIR, of course, 


 concentrates its law enforcement efforts on American targets 


 and works with the Department of Justice in their effective 


 prosecution.



 My second point is that the incidence of corruption within 


 the U.S. reconstruction program--judging from those cases 


 that we have uncovered thus far--appears
to constitute a 


 relatively small component of the overall American 


 financial contribution to Iraq's reconstruction. Based on 


 the work of our 18 career investigators on SIGIR staff, I 


 believe that losses to American taxpayers from fraud 


 within reconstruction programs will likely amount to a 


 relatively small component of the overall investment in 


 Iraq, totaling in the tens of millions (rather than 


 hundreds of millions or billions, as is sometimes 


 imagined). However, the fact that the fraud we have 


 detected is relatively small (to date) does not diminish 


 the aggressiveness with which SIGIR pursues allegations of 


 fraud in Iraq. We have found egregious incidents of fraud. 


 And in partnership with the Department of Justice, SIGIR 


 has produced clear results in prosecutions and 


 convictions.



 For example, in January, two individuals were sentenced to 


 prison as a result of SIGIR investigations. In early 


 February, indictments were announced of five more 


 individuals, resulting from SIGIR investigations. To date, 


 SIGIR has opened over 300 cases, and we have over 70 ongoing 


 investigations. Thirty-two of those cases are under 


 prosecution at the Department of Justice.



 We believe that the publicity our enforcement actions have 


 received has helped to deter misconduct in the U.S. 


 reconstruction program. And we also believe that enforcement 


 will be an increasingly important part of SIGIR's mission 


 over the next 18 months. Moreover, in the course of this 


 year, we expect to produce concrete investigative results as 


 significant current cases come to fruition.



 SIGIR remains committed to a robust, deterrent presence in 


 Iraq as long as our temporary organization exists. Today, I 


 have five investigators on the ground in Iraq investigating 


 fraud. Although there are other law enforcement agencies 


 fighting fraud in Iraq, SIGIR has maintained over the past 3 


 years the largest contingent of fraud investigators in Iraq. 


 My investigators travel the country under dangerous 


 conditions, pursuing leads, interviewing witnesses, and 


 piecing together evidence on a wide variety of cases. Their 


 work also takes them to other countries in the region. Of 


 note, SIGIR is currently reducing its overall personnel 


 ''footprint'' in Baghdad in conjunction with the reduction in 


 spending of appropriated dollars on Iraq reconstruction.



 One of the most important aspects of our investigative 


 efforts is the development of




 task-force relationships with other agencies involved in 


 oversight in Iraq, including may colleagues from the Office 


 of Inspector General of the Department of Defense and the 


 Defense Criminal Investigative Service, as well as the 


 Federal Bureau of Investigation. SIGIR has 16 investigators 


 in Arlington, and we are participating in the new Joint 


 Operations Center located at the FBI to coordinate and 


 enhance fraud investigations in Iraq.



 SIGIR's first task force was the Special Investigative Task 


 Force for Iraq Reconstruction (SPITFIRE), and it combined the 


 efforts of the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of 


 Homeland Security, Immigrations and Customs enforcement 


 office, the FBI and the Department of State Office of 


 Inspector General. That task force was able to effectively 


 pursue the Bloom-Stein conspiracy that my auditors 


 uncovered in Hillah, Iraq--a very egregious kickback and 


 bribery scheme involving over $10 million in 


 reconstruction funds that Philip Bloom, the contractor, 


 and Robert Stein, the Coalition Provisional Authority 


 comptroller for that region, engineered for their own 


 criminal ends. SPITFIRE continues its work today; and we 


 continue to pursue a number of leads that arose from the 


 Bloom-Stein case.



 The other major task-force initiative that SIGIR has 


 initiated with the FBI is the International Contract 


 Corruption Task Force (ICCTF). ICCTF prompted the creation of 


 the Joint Operations Center mentioned above, which is 


 producing the effective collection and coordination of 


 investigative leads and source development. Although I am not 


 at liberty to discuss details of these cases, I am very 


 pleased with the very significant progress the JOC 


 investigators have made, news of which I expect to be 


 forthcoming later this year.



 Along with SIGIR, the ICCTF includes the U.S. Army's 


 Criminal Investigative Division's Major Procurement Fraud 


 Unit, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the FBI, 


 and the inspectors general of the Department of State and the 


 Agency for International Development.



 SIGIR is also part of the DOJ National Procurement Fraud 


 Task Force. We continue to work closely with DOJ in the 


 investigation and prosecution of our cases.



 Finally, to coordinate efforts in oversight in Iraq, I 


 formed the Iraq Inspector Generals' Council, IIGC, 3 years 


 ago, which brings together every agency with oversight 


 authority in Iraq for a meeting every quarter. The IIGC 


 exists to deconflict and coordinate the member agencies' 


 oversight efforts in Iraq.



 SIGIR is not limiting its efforts just to addressing 


 contractor misconduct through the criminal justice system. We 


 also refer cases to the U.S. government's administrative 


 debarment and suspension processes. To date, the competent 


 oversight authorities have, through established rules that 


 preserve due process, suspended 17 companies and individuals, 


 debarred ten, and have another nine pending debarments.



 To date, SIGIR has produced 13 quarterly reports, 86 audit 


 reports, and 90 inspection reports. Our auditors and 


 inspectors regularly refer investigative leads to our 


 investigators some of which have developed into very 


 significant cases. The Bloom-Stein case is just one example.



 SIGIR's three lessons-learned reports produced to date have 


 provided recommendations on policies designed to improve 


 economy, efficiency and effectiveness for the Iraq program 


 and for future reconstruction and stabilization operations. 


 The reports have prompted the introduction of reform measures 


 in the Congress that will improve contracting processes. 


 SIGIR is at work on a lessons-learned capping report, which 


 will be produced at the end of this year. It is my hope that 


 our lessons learned reports will prompt reforms that will 


 improve the capacity of law enforcement to deter crime.



 Mr. Chairman, with respect to H.R. 400, Representative 


 Abercrombie's bill entitled the ''War Profiteering Prevention 


 Act of 2007,'' our position is essentially what it was when 


 we were asked to reflect on its counterpart at a Senate 


 hearing this past March. SIGIR remains a strong proponent of 


 legislation that would strengthen efforts to punish fraud or 


 abuse in contracting programs in Iraq or elsewhere. We look 


 forward to working with the Department of Justice to enforce 


 H.R. 400, should it become law. We are, however, unaware of 


 instances where the Justice Department was unable to 


 prosecute, under existing law, on the facts we developed in 


 our investigations.



 One of our responsibilities in Iraq is to encourage 


 efficiency in the reconstruction effort. In that role, we 


 have prompted management to seek the widest possible 


 participation by business enterprises (especially Iraqi 


 firms) in reconstruction. The security risks in Iraq are 


 self-evident, and thus the risks to any business enterprise 


 operating in such an environment are mammoth. International 


 companies likely will not get into the business of 


 reconstruction in Iraq without incentives that render the 


 risk-taking worthwhile. This reality should figure in the 


 development of legislation that affects contracting in Iraq 


 or similarly insecure environments.



 Whether H.R. 400 becomes law, SIGIR will continue to 


 aggressively pursue investigations, provide robust oversight 


 through audits and inspections, and will press for more 


 efforts to improve contract administration, quality 


 assurance, and quality control. It is my hope that our 


 continuing efforts will help promote an aim we all share--a 


 reconstruction program that is administered and executed 


 honestly, and is as well-managed and efficient as possible 


 under very challenging circumstances.



 Mr. Chairman, members of the Committee, thank you for your 


 time and attention to these important matters, and I look 


 forward to answering your questions.
