# PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2007
## `a8c7e83280c85bdf9960ab07eb3bd28d`
`Mr. WAXMAN — 14 March 2007`

---


Mr. WAXMAN. Thank you very much for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, history is important because it informs us of events of 
the past, so we can learn from those events, not to make the same 
mistakes or to follow good examples that turned out to be successful. 
History always is an ongoing process. It is a process of looking at 
facts and reinterpreting those facts, often in light of current events 
and matters that are before the researchers at the present time.

But there are those who would like to rewrite history for their own 
purposes, and to the extent that we can keep that from happening, I 
think this bill goes a long way. It would allow the records, the raw 
information, to be available, let those who want to interpret those 
events do so as they see fit; and in doing so, by making these records 
available to scholars and the public, we can find out the information 
that we didn't know at the time the events were taking place: what 
motivated certain decisions, what other factors were being considered, 
what was going on that led to certain conclusions.

There are books now being written about the present day, how we got 
into Iraq, what we had hoped to do, what we still hope we can 
accomplish, what the thinking was of those who led us into the 
adventure. Many of the books have been praiseworthy, and most of them 
have been quite critical. But it won't be until the judgment of history 
that we will be able to fill in many of the gaps that remain.

So, at some point, Presidential records help scholars fill in those 
gaps. That is why I think it is so worthwhile to have this information 
available, at least at a time when there is some historical 
perspective. Many times it is after the President has passed on, but 
certainly long after the President's administration.

During the Nixon period, President Nixon thought that the records 
belonged to him, and he sought, as I recall, a tax break for donating 
his records to a nonprofit organization. He felt he could control those 
records.

Well, I think the American people looked at that and said, wait a 
minute, some things are his, the President's, to do with as he sees 
fit, but some things don't really belong to him.



They belong to the American people. They belong to scholars. They 
belong to history. And the Presidential Records Act was adopted because 
of that concern. It has worked well for several decades, and it is only 
when we saw the executive order presented by President George W. Bush 
that some of the concerns have been raised because that Presidential 
order overturned the one that was put into effect by President Reagan 
implementing the post-Watergate legislation.

So I wanted to use this additional time to give some historical 
background to this matter. We heard from many scholars, as the chairman 
of the subcommittee indicated, who set out the reasons why they thought 
it was important to be able to get this information, the Archivist, Mr. 
Weinstein, Presidential scholars like Mr. Dallek and Mr. Reeves, 
particularly, who have written about recent Presidents, urged us to 
adopt this legislation. And I am pleased that now we are considering 
it. And it is important, it is a good government bill, and we are doing 
it in the appropriate way, in a bipartisan spirit where we vote 
together on the committee. And I commend all those involved. And I know 
now, because I have just been informed, that the next bill is ready for 
consideration of the House.

