---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5818, NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION  ACT OF 2008
## `a8ea8ec3e81441888fc277f67c76f95e`
`Mr. CULBERSON — 7 May 2008`

---


Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, let's be clear. It is not we Members who 
are shut out, it is the constituents that we represent. On this 
Financial Services bill, those constituents that we represent have been 
shut out in committee and not offered an opportunity to offer an 
amendment.

On the Appropriations Committee, the war funding bill, life or death 
for our troops, the most important question facing our Nation, our 
survival as a Nation and the war on terror, the 19 million Americans 
that we represent on the Republican side have been shut out of the 
process and denied an opportunity to offer amendments in debate on the 
survival of the Nation in the war on terror, on life and death of our 
soldiers in the field.

I, for one, had an amendment to make the Iraqi Government pay more of 
their own share of this reconstruction and make sure that with oil at 
$120 a barrel, the Iraqi Government, sitting on the world's third-
largest supply of oil, I have an amendment to require the Iraqi 
Government, that I was going to offer in committee, to make the Iraqi 
Government pay for the reconstruction of roads, utilities, schools, job 
training and economic development. Because we have a record debt and 
deficit in this country, that amendment is an important piece of the 
debate in the appropriations bill to pay for the war.

This is not just any bill that the American people have been shut out 
of the debate on. It is the bill paying for the lives and safety of our 
troops in the field.

I would, frankly, think that the Democrat leadership of this House 
would be embarrassed to deny the American people an opportunity to have 
their elected representatives participate in this debate. When we 
started this Congress, the Speaker promised the most ethical and open 
Congress in the history of the Nation. We don't see it in the process. 
Over and over again these bills come to the floor without an 
opportunity to debate them or offer amendments on the floor.

Don't forget, it is not just the Republicans that are shut out, Mr. 
Speaker, but the Democrat members of the Appropriations Committee have 
been shut out, just like the members of the Financial Services 
Committee have been shut out. The American people have been shut out of 
this process, and the Democrat leadership ought to be embarrassed for 
bringing a bill to fund the war without giving us all an opportunity.

