# None
## `a90158f997f65f78d580f884d103940d`
`Mr. LEAHY — 10 July 2007`

---


Mr. LEAHY. I withdraw my request, but I would note that the Senate 
this week is considering the National Defense Authorization Act. 
Senator Specter and I will introduce an amendment at such a point as we 
do not receive objection from the Republican side. What we will 
introduce will be the Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007.

I want to, first and foremost, thank and actually praise Senator 
Specter for his strong and consistent leadership on this issue. It is 
not just leadership this year, it has been leadership in past years. I 
hope all Senators, both Republicans and Democrats, join us in restoring 
basic American values and the rule of law while making our Nation 
stronger.

Last year, Congress committed a historic mistake by suspending the 
great writ of habeas corpus. They did this not only for those confined 
at Guantanamo Bay but for millions of people who are legally residents 
in the United States.

We held a hearing on this, the Senate Judiciary Committee did, in 
May. That hearing illustrated broad agreement among people of very 
diverse political views and backgrounds, that the mistake committed in 
the Military Commissions Act of 2006 has to be corrected. The Habeas 
Corpus Restoration Act of 2007 has 25 cosponsors, and the Senate 
Judiciary Committee passed it last month with a bipartisan vote.

Habeas corpus was recklessly undermined in last year's Military 
Commissions Act. Like the internment of Japanese Americans during World 
War II, the elimination of habeas rights was an action driven by fear, 
and it has been a stain on America's reputation in the world. In many 
places around the world where we had been so admired in the past, they 
have asked why would America turn its back on one of its most basic 
rights.

We are at a time of testing. Future generations will look back to 
examine the choices we made during a time when security was too often 
invoked as a watchword to convince us to slacken our defense of liberty 
and the rule of law.

The great writ of habeas corpus is the legal process that guarantees 
an


opportunity to go to court and challenge the abuse of power by the 
Government. It is enshrined in the Constitution, and as stalwart a 
Republican conservative as Justice Antonin Scalia has recently referred 
to it as ''the very core of liberty secured by our Anglo-Saxon system 
of separation of powers.''

The Military Commissions Act rolled back these protections by 
eliminating that right permanently for any non-citizen labeled an enemy 
combatant. In fact, a detainee does not have to be found to be an enemy 
combatant; it is enough for the Government to pick up someone, hold 
that person with no charges, and say: They are awaiting determination. 
When we make up our mind this year, or next year, or 10 years from now, 
then we may label them an enemy combatant. In the meantime, they do not 
even have the power to say to a court: They picked up the wrong guy. 
They don't even have my name right. They picked me up by mistake. You 
can't even do that.

Is this America? Is this America?

The sweep of this habeas provision goes far beyond the few hundred 
detainees currently held at Guantanamo Bay, and it includes an 
estimated 12 million lawful permanent residents in the United States 
today. Under this law, the people who can be picked up are people who 
work and pay taxes, who abide by our laws, and should be entitled to 
fair treatment.

Under this law, any of these people can be detained forever without 
any ability to challenge their detention in court. Stanford Professor 
Mariano-Florentino Cuellar called this an issue about which the Latino 
community, which encompasses so many of the Nation's legal permanent 
residents, must be concerned.

Giving the Government such raw, unfettered power should concern every 
American. Since last fall, I have been describing a nightmare scenario 
about a hard-working, legal permanent resident who makes an innocent 
donation to, among other charities, a Muslim charity, that the 
Government secretly suspects of ties to terrorism. I suggested that on 
the basis of this donation, and perhaps a report of suspicious behavior 
of an overzealous neighbor or a cursory review of library records, this 
permanent resident can be brought in for questioning, can be denied a 
lawyer, and confined indefinitely. Such a person would have no recourse 
in the courts for years, or for decades, or forever.

When I said this, some people thought this nightmare scenario was 
fanciful. I wish it were, but it was not. In November that scenario was 
confirmed by our Department of Justice in a legal brief submitted in a 
Federal court in Virginia. They asserted that the Military Commissions 
Act allows the Government to detain any non-citizen designated an enemy 
combatant without giving that person any ability to challenge his 
detention in court. This is true, the Justice Department said, even for 
someone arrested and imprisoned in the United States. In other words, 
we could do what we always condemned other countries for doing, 
countries behind the then-Iron Curtain, where they would pick up 
somebody, hold them indefinitely, and that person had no recourse in 
court.

Rightly so, Republican and Democratic Presidents condemned those 
countries for doing that. Now we have given ourselves the same power. 
The Washington Post wrote that the brief ''raises the possibility that 
any of the millions of immigrants living in the United States could be 
subject to indefinite detention if they are accused of ties to 
terrorist groups.'' I might add, this accusation can be totally 
erroneous.


This is wrong; it is unconstitutional. But more than that, it is 
truly un-American. It is designed to ensure that the Bush-Cheney 
administration will never again be embarrassed by court decisions that 
review their unlawful abuses of power.

The conservative Supreme Court, with seven of its nine members 
appointed by Republican Presidents, has been the only check in this 
administration's lawlessness. The Supreme Court and other conservative 
Federal courts, and recently even military judges, have repeatedly 
overturned the lawless systems set up by this administration governing 
detainees. Many have hoped the courts will come to the rescue again on 
the issue of habeas corpus. With the continued drift of the Supreme 
Court toward endorsing greater executive power, we cannot count on the 
intervention of this conservative, activist court. Besides, are we 
going to pass the buck? Congress cannot and must not outsource its 
moral responsibility.

We all want to make America safe from terrorism. We come to work 
proudly every day, in a building that was targeted by those criminals 
who hijacked planes on 9/11. We do not hesitate to come to work here. 
We do it proudly. I implore those who support this change to think 
about whether eliminating habeas corpus truly makes America safe from 
the world. Does it make us any safer in this building? Does it comport 
with the values and liberties and legal traditions we hold most dear?

Top conservative thinkers such as Professor Richard Epstein and David 
Keene, head of the American Conservative Union, agree this change 
betrays centuries of legal tradition and practice. Professor David 
Gushee, head of Evangelicals for Human Rights, submitted a declaration 
calling the elimination of habeas rights and related changes ''deeply 
lamentable'' and ''fraught with danger to basic human rights.''

GEN Colin Powell recently advocated habeas corpus rights for 
detainees, asking:




 Isn't that what our system's all about?


General Powell has it right.

But probably the most powerful for me was the testimony of RADM 
Donald Guter, who was working in his office in the Pentagon as Judge 
Advocate General of the Navy. He was working there on September 11, 
2001. He saw firsthand the effects of criminality and terrorism. He saw 
his colleagues killed by the plane that crashed into the Pentagon. I 
believe his credibility is unimpeachable when he says that denying 
habeas rights to detainees endangers our troops and undermines our 
military efforts. In testimony to the committee, Admiral Guter wrote:




 As we limit the rights of human beings, even those of the 


 enemy, we become more like the enemy. That makes us weaker 


 and imperils our valiant troops, serving not just in Iraq and 


 Afghanistan, but around the globe.


The admiral was right. Whether you are an individual soldier or a 
great and good nation, it is difficult to defend the higher ground by 
taking the lower road. The world knows what our enemies stand for. The 
world also knows what this country has tried to stand for and live up 
to in the best of times but especially in the worst of times.

Now as we work to reauthorize the many programs that comprise our 
valiant Armed Forces, it is the right time to heed the advice of 
Admiral Guter and so many of our top military lawyers who tell us that 
eliminating basic legal rights undermines our fighting men and women, 
it does not make them stronger. Elimination of basic legal rights 
undermines, not strengthens, our ability to achieve justice.

It is from strength that America should defend our values and our way 
of life. It is from the strength of our freedoms and our Constitution 
and the rule of law that we shall prevail. I hope all in the Senate, 
Republican and Democrat alike, will join us in standing up for a 
stronger America, for the America we believe in, and support the Habeas 
Corpus Restoration Act of 2007.

That is why I am proud to be here with the distinguished senior 
Senator from Pennsylvania. We have worked together. You know, every one 
of us serves here only for a certain time. When we leave, we have to 
ask ourselves: If we had the privilege of being only 1 of 100 people to 
get to represent 300 million in America in this great body, what do we 
do to make America better? If we leave this blight--if we leave this 
blight--on our laws, we have not made it better, we have made it 
weaker.


Mr. President, I yield the floor.