---
---

# PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION
## `a915067f0efb3ec2fe1908cb59bfc298`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. Meek, the President is not running 
again. The President doesn't have anybody to answer to, so the 
President is free now to act on his own instincts, to act on his own 
set of advice. And that means, to the extent that this President was 
ever listening to the American public, he is not doing it now. He 
doesn't need to do it. And, as you said before, he is not up for 
reelection. But every Member of this House, with the exception of those 
people who are retiring, are.



And so people in the Republican Caucus, our friends on the other side 
of the aisle, have got to think about what's the motivations behind the 
President's threats here. Is it because of a political calculation 
where he wants to be on the right side of where the American people 
are, or is it because he has no one to answer to any longer?

And sometimes, you know, we get a little bit of frustration when we 
go back home, Mr. Meek. People say, well, why hasn't more happened on 
the war coming to a close? Why haven't you done more to solve our 
health care problems?

Well, the answer is what happens just up Pennsylvania Avenue. We've 
put legislation on the President's desk to planfully exit Iraq. He 
vetoed it. We've put legislation on his desk twice to ensure 4 million 
more kids. Both times he vetoed it.

Over and over again, with the Republicans and Democrats standing 
together, we've put legislation on his desk, even under that threat of 
veto, and he has continued to stand against the American public, Mr. 
Meek.

I think we can still have some victories from here to the end of the 
year. I still think we can have moments where this House comes together 
and overrides presidential veto.

I can't think of a better bill to exercise the will of the American 
people as expressed through this House than on


the GI Bill, giving educational benefits to troops. I have no idea why 
the President has decided to exercise his veto threat against that 
legislation. If there's anything that we should be able to come 
together on, it's on supporting our troops when they come back home.

I think we should have done it for those 4 million kids that should 
have gotten health care insurance. I think that we should have done it 
when it comes to the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. But let's at 
least do it as one final salvo with this Democratic Congress and a 
Republican President when it comes to standing up for our GIs, Mr. 
Meek. It would seem to be the one place, amidst a lot of the times that 
we disagree here. You named all the moments on which we have agreed. 
But the culmination of a remarkable amount of agreement, amidst a 
reputation of disagreement in this House, would be to pass that GI Bill 
with a veto-proof majority, put it on the President's desk, dare him to 
veto it, knowing that we're going to have the votes to override when it 
comes back.