# MAKING EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010
## `a916bd531dd96c3bcfbc3d5785d36315`
`Mr. INOUYE — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Madam President, the Senator from Oklahoma has proposed 
two amendments, both of which are designed to offset the cost of the 
supplemental bill before us. He argues that the Nation needs to find 
ways to use existing funds to meet these needs. He even argues that 
some of the items were not unforeseen and, therefore, do not qualify as 
emergencies.

I would respond, do not tell the people of Rhode Island and Tennessee 
that the floods in their States are not emergencies. I would say any of 
us watching television are aware of the emergency which is occurring 
now on the gulf coast. I would even say those in Oklahoma whose forests 
and towns have been damaged by tornadoes are aware of what an emergency 
is.

The Senator suggested we should not declare the cost of war as an 
emergency since we have known about the costs of war since September 
11, 2001. I would remind the Senator and my colleagues that the current 
administration did its best to foresee the costs of war and included 
funding for those costs as part of its budget request, and the Congress 
acted to meet these needs.

But circumstances change. The deteriorating conditions in Afghanistan 
led our military leaders to recommend, and the President to conclude, 
that we needed to increase our forces in Afghanistan. The funds in this 
bill are that unforeseen portion of the cost of war. For someone to 
argue they do not qualify as an emergency is most unfortunate.

The Senator suggests we should cut unobligated balances. Several 
others have suggested we should cut from the stimulus bill. Nearly 
every dollar remaining in the stimulus bill has been committed to a 
particular project if not yet obligated. If we look at what is left, 
the largest item that is unobligated at the moment is for high-speed 
rail--approximately $7.9 billion--but those funds have been awarded to 
specific projects. We know where the funds are going, and they will all 
be awarded on contracts soon.

There is some $6 billion in unobligated Pell grant funding. But that 
amount is already assumed in the fiscal year 2011 budget. We already 
have a $5.7 billion shortfall in this great scholarship funding 
program. If we rescind this $6 billion, we will need to find nearly $12 
billion in fiscal year 2011 to meet the shortfall.

More than $6 billion remains available to pay the States for fiscal 
stabilization. Thirty-four States have written budgets assuming these 
funds would be available to them. States such as Texas are scheduled to 
receive more than $1 billion of this amount. These funds are 
unobligated, but that does not mean they are not wanted.

More than $4 billion remains unobligated for education reform. The 
funds are ready for award and will be obligated in the next 4 months. 
Is this the program we want to stop?

Several Senators have proposed specifically rescinding funds from the 
Recovery Act. Senator Coburn also suggests this is one possible area of 
savings. Well, unless we want to cut the programs I have listed above, 
there are no funds to rescind from the stimulus bill.

The Senator from Oklahoma is indiscriminate in his suggestion we cut 
unexpended balances. Let me say this to my colleagues, in a trillion 
dollar discretionary budget, we better hope we have unobligated 
balances because if we did not, we would be terminating government 
services with a third of the year still remaining to be funded. For 
example, there would be no one to send out Social Security checks, no 
one to keep our national parks open, and no funds to maintain a 
terrorist watch list or fight our wars.

But unobligated does not mean unneeded. On Monday, I noted we have 
$8.3 billion in unobligated balances in the Joint Strike Fighter 
Program, but the Senator does not say what programs he would propose 
for the bulk of the cuts he is mandating.

In one amendment, he says, do not cut defense spending. In the other, 
it is, do not cut veterans funding. I share that sentiment, but if we 
are talking about cutting discretionary funding, the large unobligated 
balances are in the Defense Department.

As of last month, the Defense Department had nearly $400 billion in 
unobligated balances. There are plenty of unobligated balances to pay 
for the supplemental. But what sense does it make to cut defense 
spending so we can increase funds to cover the cost of war? Even the 
Senator seemingly agrees it would make no sense.

The $80 billion rescission authority in the Senator's amendment is 
virtually unworkable. In fiscal year 2010, the Federal funds 
unobligated balances, excluding the Defense Department and the 
Veterans' Administration, are about $597 billion. More than half of 
that--$330 billion--is unobligated balances for Treasury which are 
mostly financing mechanisms such as credit reform balances. These 
cannot be rescinded. That leaves only about $267 billion for the $80 
billion of proposed rescissions.

Nearly one-third of the funds available to continue government 
operations for the remainder of the fiscal year would have to be 
eliminated. And, under the amendment, the Congress would defer to the 
unelected OMB Director to determine where to make the cuts. Not only is 
this a terrible concept, it is an abrogation of our responsibility to 
make spending decisions for the Nation. And, you can be sure, were we 
to adopt this amendment, the first thing to be cut would be 
congressional priorities.

It is always easy to suggest we should cut unobligated balances, or 
waste, fraud, and abuse, or someone else's earmarks. What is much 
harder to identify is specific programs which should be cut.

By way of example, if we cut funding for NOAA, it will mean reducing 
our capabilities to track the devastating oil spill washing up on our 
gulf coast communities at this moment. Slashing unobligated funding 
would curtail the efforts to restore wetlands and beaches that are 
vital to the environment and the local economy and to our fishermen who 
are banned from fishing, evidenced by the fishing disaster just 
declared by Secretary Locke.


In the case of homeland security, most of the unobligated balances 
which remain available are for acquisitions such as the national 
security cutter, aircraft for border security, border station 
construction, explosive detection equipment for our airports, radiation 
portal monitors, and border technology such as sensors, cameras, and x-
ray


machines. This amendment would force us to curtail spending on these 
programs at the same time other Senators are urging the Senate to 
increase funding for them.

The Senator's two amendments fall short in identifying reasonable 
offsets for the cost of these bills. Does this body want to penalize 
all civil servants by not allowing any cost-of-living adjustment for 
the coming year? Do we want to encourage our most skilled workers to 
leave Federal service because their pay, which already doesn't match 
the employment cost index when comparing similar jobs in the private 
sector, would be frozen? What sense does it make to encourage our best 
workers to quit? That is not good management. Few successful private 
enterprises would suggest freezing pay for all their workers.

There are items that I believe have merit in the Senator's proposal, 
and I hope the committee can work with him as we move forward into 
fiscal year 2011 to identify them. Cutting overhead and saving funding 
through taxpayer compliance are good ideas which I know our 
appropriations subcommittees share. The government should rid itself of 
excess real property, and it should be encouraged to do so. But to set 
an arbitrary target of cutting $15 billion seems unrealistic, 
unwarranted, and unwise.

All my colleagues should be advised that it is very difficult to make 
significant reductions in spending 7 months into the fiscal year. At 
this point, we have made commitments to our agencies, and they, in 
turn, have made commitments to contractors and grant recipients. No, 
they haven't spent all their funding for the entire fiscal year, but 
nor do they have large unneeded balances that can be reapplied to cover 
the cost of emergent requirements.

If the Senate were to agree to cut $100 billion from the legislative 
budget at this juncture, the Congress would have two choices: lay off 
our staffs so that we are unable to meet the legislative demands of the 
institution or stop work on maintenance.

The Architect of the Capitol, Mr. Stephen Ayers, just testified that 
the Capitol Complex faces a growing backlog of deferred maintenance 
projects totaling over $1.6 billion which must be funded in the near 
future. Many of these projects are fire- and life-safety related. The 
Architect has received numerous citations about the urgency of the 
needed repairs to the aging infrastructure in the historical buildings 
within our complex. The Russell, Cannon, Capitol, and the Thomas 
Jefferson Library of Congress buildings are all in violation of current 
fire safety codes. The longer this work is delayed, the more it will 
ultimately cost. Each year, the Appropriations Legislative Branch 
Subcommittee attempts to whittle away at this backlog by funding a 
handful of these projects in the annual appropriations bill.

So we could cut $100 million from the legislative budget, but it 
would be penny wise and pound foolish, as the old adage says.

One suggestion made by the Senator from Oklahoma is to cut the 
administrative expenses of the Federal agencies by 5 percent. Again, it 
is an idea that sounds good. Surely every bureaucracy can be cut back. 
I would note that on the Appropriations Committee, we look for such 
cuts every year, but setting arbitrary targets would be irresponsible. 
For example, in the case of the State Department and the USAID, which 
lost large percentages of their professional staff during the 1990s or 
had them transferred from Washington to other embassies in Iraq or 
Afghanistan after 9/11, it will exacerbate an already unsustainable 
situation. Some of our embassies are 20 percent short of staff. USAID 
is being asked to do more and more, especially in key countries such as 
Pakistan, without nearly half the staff to manage the funds and conduct 
the necessary oversight.

Here are a few examples of what a 5-percent cut means. The Indian 
Health Service medical services would be cut by $185 million. This 
means 10,000 fewer inpatient admissions, 195,000 fewer dental patient 
visits, 55,000 fewer mental health patient visits, and 85,000 fewer 
public health nursing visits. The National Park Service base operations 
would be cut by $115 million and result in a loss of 1,130 park rangers 
nationwide. This would necessitate the closure of most national parks 
where security and health and safety maintenance could not be 
maintained, such as the Statue of Liberty, the Washington Monument, the 
Grand Canyon, Yosemite, and the Yellowstone National Park. Just think 
of the impact of such an action as we head into the busy summer months. 
The American people would be incensed by such a recommendation.

This amendment would cut the childhood immunization program by $25 
million, preventing more than 30,000 children from being vaccinated 
this year.