# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION
## `a918a94b619cf8a29639cdcbb1b30812`
`Mr. MENENDEZ — 18 October 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, yesterday I began to speak about what 
the failed war in Iraq is costing us at home to mark the fifth 
anniversary of Congress's capitulation to the war. As we debate the 
Labor-HHS appropriations bill, I can't think of a better moment to 
return to the cost of this war.

Let me begin by saying again we are aware of the human cost of the 
war: 3,816 Americans are dead; more than 28,000 have come back home 
wounded. Iraqis have died in even greater numbers. Millions have fled 
their homes. The United States has been involved in the war for longer 
than we fought World War II. We all know the Iraq war is a human 
calamity of vast proportions. It can be harder to visualize the direct 
damage that comes from the financial cost of the war. We are paying for 
this war with borrowed money, burying ourselves in massive debt, 
severely threatening the future of our country.

We know we have spent more than $450 billion on this war so far, and 
we continue to spend about $10 billion every month. That doesn't add up 
to a stack of bills that could have been sitting in the Treasury. It is 
equipment at ports that scan nuclear weapons and other measures that 
actually make the homeland more secure. It is children healed with 
better health care. It is more teachers in school, better training for 
jobs, energy that is clean and doesn't strengthen repressive regimes in 
the Middle East, payments of our debts so future generations will 
inherit a country that is financially viable.

The Bush administration likes to parrot the line: We are fighting 
them over there so we don't have to fight them here. But when we add it 
all up, the bottom line is clear: The administration's motto really is: 
We are spending all our money over there so we don't spend it here.

Yesterday I spoke about how much we could accomplish to safeguard our 
homeland against terrorists if we spent a fraction of the money we have 
dumped into the war that makes no sense. Today I would like to speak 
about what the failed war in Iraq has cost us in terms of our health; 
specifically, the health of our children. Today the House of 
Representatives considered whether to support a bill to provide health 
insurance for children. Every time we go to the doctor or fill a 
prescription at the pharmacy, we remember how expensive health care can 
be. There are families who work every day in some of the toughest jobs, 
but their jobs don't offer health care, and their paychecks would not 
let them afford private coverage. That is why the Federal Government 
and the States teamed up to start the State Children's Health Insurance 
Program or what is commonly referred to as SCHIP.

This year Democrats and Republicans came together to pass a bill that 
would continue to provide health care to the 6 million children already 
enrolled and will expand the program to include a total of 10 million 
children across America. We knew we had to because the children who 
fall into the wide abyss between Medicaid and private coverage are 
depending on us. But on October 3, millions of children got some 
terrible news. President Bush had vetoed the bill. He did it silently 
and secretly, with no cameras allowed to watch as he condemned millions 
of children to a lack of coverage with a single stroke of his pen.

Today families across America were waiting to see if Congress had the 
moral resolve to override that veto. Some of our colleagues who cast 
decisive votes against children's health raised the question of whether 
the bill was financially reasonable, whether 10 million uninsured 
American kids were worthy of funding. President Bush said they were 
not. Many of my colleagues who voted against children's health have 
repeatedly decided to vote for continuing the failed war in Iraq. Right 
now I wish to speak directly to all of them. If we are talking about 
what is financially reasonable, let's take a very close look at the 
stark contrast in cost between children's health and the failed war in 
Iraq.


The total cost of expanding children's health is $35 billion over 5 
years for 10 million children. How many dollars per child does this 
cost us every day? Depending upon which State you live in, the answer 
is as little as $3.50 a day, about the cost of a latte at Starbuck's. 
Iraq costs us $10 billion per month. That means with 3/1/2/ months of 
Iraq funding, the total expansion in this bill would have been paid 
for. That is what the war costs--health care for 10 million children 
versus 3/1/2/ months of what we spend in Iraq.

The impact of this bill would have been enormous in many States, 
including my State of New Jersey, where families have to pay some of 
the highest health care costs in the Nation. It would have helped 
support the State in keeping 124,000 New Jersey children insured. It 
would have covered as many as 100,000 additional children in my State. 
In the bill, New Jersey would have received about $350 million next 
year alone to cover working families and children. This program has 
given New Jersey families that cannot afford private coverage the peace 
of mind to know that children have health care. President Bush has told 
those children: No, you don't deserve the Federal Government's strong 
support, even though


this country spends $330 million in Iraq every day. Again, every single 
day in Iraq, we spend roughly the amount of money it would take to get 
tens of thousands of New Jersey children coverage for a full year.

I wish he had to look every child in the eye to tell them that. But 
that is what the war costs: Health insurance for New Jersey children 
versus one day in Iraq. In fact, for the amount Congress has spent on 
the failed war in Iraq, we could provide 2 years of health coverage for 
all of the 47 million Americans who don't have health insurance, who 
play Russian roulette every day with their lives and their wallets, and 
still have $30 billion left over. We could have provided health care 
coverage for all of the 47 million Americans who don't have health 
coverage today. That is what the war costs: Health care coverage for 
every single American family versus the failed war in Iraq.

Here is the question we have to ask ourselves as legislators, as 
Americans, as human beings: Is a child to get more benefit from a 
dollar spent keeping our military in Iraq to referee a civil war or a 
dollar spent on their health insurance? Is she going to be better 
served by oil injected in an Abrams tank or by a vaccine a nurse 
injects in her arm to save her from measles? Is her life going to be 
improved by missiles in the desert or antibiotics in her medicine 
cabinet; more troops on the streets of Baghdad or more doctors in the 
hospital down the block; multimillion dollar bombs that rain down on 
Iraqi neighborhoods with surgical precision or orthopedic surgery for a 
disease such as cerebral palsy that would mean the difference between a 
debilitated life in a wheelchair and being able to walk and run and 
play with other children at school?

How dare we take money from her family and borrow money from foreign 
countries to spend it on a war that makes no sense, while leaving her 
on her own to fight diseases and injuries that might very well claim 
her life.

It is hard to think of a more grievous act on the part of this 
Government than abandoning those children in order to prolong a war. 
The vote to override President Bush's veto was not only about political 
responsibility. It was not only about constitutional responsibility. It 
was a question of right and wrong. Let's remember the administration 
motto: Spend all our money over there so we don't have to spend it 
here. In my mind, that is as wrong as it gets.

I will continue to speak out on what else this war is costing us here 
at home in terms of education and jobs and green energy, helping the 
middle class make ends meet and the financial stability of our Nation 
that our children will inherit. America deserves to know what we could 
have achieved had this horrible war never happened. The administration 
has spent down our finances, mortgaged the future. Republicans in the 
House have voted down health care coverage for our children. But one 
thing they have not yet emptied out is our vast treasury of hope. It is 
tragic to think what might have been, but it is not too late to believe 
in what we can become.

I yield the floor.