---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3773, RESTORE ACT OF 2007
## `a91f2e2bba7e6551f08fe029a111375b`
`Mr. ROYCE — 17 October 2007`

---


Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman. I'm rising to oppose 
the rule.

For the first time, this bill would stop intelligence professionals 
from conducting surveillance of foreign persons in foreign countries 
unless they can read the mind of their terrorist targets and guarantee 
that they would not call the United States or one of their people in 
the United States. This is more protection than Americans get under 
court-ordered warrants in mob and other criminal cases.

So the issue we're debating today is very important. It is a matter 
of life and death essentially.

I serve as ranking member of the Terrorism and Nonproliferation 
Subcommittee. That there has not been a terrorist attack on our soil 
since 9/11 is due to the improved surveillance in real-time that we're 
able to conduct against foreign terrorists.

That good record, though, in no way should lead us to discount the 
jihadists, because the image of Osama bin Laden's allies operating in 
some remote terrain somewhere may give the impression that our foes are 
isolated. They are not isolated.

We are confronting a virtual caliphate. Radical jihadists are 
physically dispersed, but they're united through the Internet, and they 
use that tool to recruit and plot their terrorist attacks. They use 
electronic communications for just such a purpose, and they're very 
sophisticated in that use.

So how has the West attempted to confront that? Well, the British use 
electronic surveillance in real-time, and they used it last year to 
stop the attack on 10 transatlantic flights. They prevented that attack 
in August of last year by wiretapping.

The French authorities used wiretaps to lure jihadists basically into 
custody and prevented a bomb attack.

Given this threat, it is unfathomable that we'd weaken our most 
effective preventative tool, and that's exactly what this bill does.

Before we passed the Protect America Act in August, the Director of 
National Intelligence told Congress that we are losing up to two-thirds 
of our intelligence on terrorist targets. Admiral McConnell went on to 
testify, ''We're actually missing a significant portion of what we 
should be getting.''

Though Admiral McConnell has served both Democrat and Republican 
administrations with distinction, now his credibility has been 
attacked. I'd ask those so distrustful: Go ahead, discount his 
estimate, cut them in half, say we'd lose one-third of our intelligence 
by passing this bill. Isn't that too much to give up? I don't want to 
lose a single percent of our intelligence on terrorist communications. 
With nuclear and biological material floating around this globe, we 
don't have that margin of error.

We've heard the ACLU concerns, but before we unilaterally disarm, 
before we hobble our ability to listen in real-time to the very real 
terrorists who are attacking our troops in Iraq every day, shouldn't we 
have something of an accounting of the supposed civil liberties price 
we're paying? Frankly, I don't see the troubling cases.

What I do see is the very misguided concern for the civil liberties 
of foreigners having conversations with terrorists.

This bill grants privacy protection to foreigners, those believed to 
be terrorists, by requiring the intelligence community to seek court 
orders to collect foreign intelligence on foreign targets.



This process in the past has clogged the FISA Court, it has wasted 
untold intelligence hours, it has pulled Arabic and Urdu and Farsi 
speakers off of listening to terrorist cases and put them on filing 
hundreds of pages of paperwork. FISA restrictions hindered the search 
for kidnapped Americans in Iraq.

My colleagues, it has come down to this: Are we interested in best 
protecting American lives, or giving away privacy rights to foreigners 
involved in conversations with terrorists?