# LAKOTA CODE TALKERS
## `a92ebc3b1a201af32e750c6a6d7900b5`
`Mr. JOHNSON — 29 July 2008`

---


Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, during World War II, Lakota, Dakota, and 
Nakota soldiers from across the Great Plains served this country with 
honor and distinction as Code Talkers. These men sent messages in code, 
derived from their native languages, that the enemy was never able to 
decipher. They saved the lives of countless Americans, were responsible 
for major military victories, and provided an invaluable service to the 
United States, but they were sworn to secrecy about their operations in 
order to protect the code. As a result, their important contributions 
were not immediately recognized.

Only one of these heroes, Clarence Wolf Guts, survives today. Mr. 
Wolf Guts spoke Lakota at home, but--like many other Native youth--he 
was punished for doing so at school. Despite this, he enlisted in the 
Army at age 18 and served a 3-year tour in the Pacific. Mr. Wolf Guts 
and his fellow Code Talkers are an example of the proud service record 
of Native Americans, who make up a higher percentage of service men and 
women in the Armed Forces than any other ethnic group in America. They 
have served with honor in all of America's wars beginning with the 
Revolutionary War on through our current operations in Iraq.

In 2001, the Navajo Code Talkers were awarded Congressional Gold 
Medals for their service. In appreciation of the service of Mr. Wolf 
Guts, his comrades, and all Native American Code Talkers, I have 
cosponsored S. 2681, the Code Talkers Recognition Act of 2008. This 
legislation would ensure that all Native American Code Talkers which 
hail from at least 17 different tribes are all recognized and honored 
for their service.

In recognition of their service, the Rosebud Sioux Tribe and South 
Dakota State University plan to construct the Code Talkers Memorial 
Park in Mission, SD. Meant to inspire hope in the community, this park 
will feature a Memorial Grove of trees found on the home reservation of 
each soldier and will provide recreation and wellness opportunities as 
a part of the tribe's ongoing fight against youth suicide.

I want to honor and recognize these men for their service and 
sacrifice for this country.
