# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `a932284d0d662354c3ea43f3081329f5`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Florida — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Thank you very much, Ms. Slaughter, and 
thank you very much for your leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I have appended to this podium the faces of 90 people 
who never should have lost their lives in this war.

Mr. Speaker, when I voted against using troops in Iraq more than 4 
years ago, I believed then, and still believe today, that this was not 
a war of necessity, but rather for the Bush administration a war of 
choice and convenience. As we have learned since that vote, the concern 
that I and others had was, indeed, justified.

Today's vote is not a vote on supporting our troops. After all, there 
is no choice when it comes to supporting our military. We all stand by 
them, Republicans and Democrats alike, especially when they are in 
harm's way.

But should we send our troops into battle without proper body armor? 
For over 4 years the Bush administration has said ''yes.'' Democrats 
have said ''no.''

Should we force our troops into second and third and fourth tours of 
duties with shortened times in between those tours? The Bush 
administration continues to say ''yes.'' Democrats say ''no.''

Should we welcome home our troops with inhumane conditions at our VA 
hospitals around this Nation, not just at Walter Reed, and a 
shortchanged veterans health care system? The Bush administration says 
''yes.'' Democrats say ''no.''

Should we stay the course of rhetorical arguments filled with fear 
and deception, like I have heard here today? Or should we finally start 
holding this administration and the Iraqi Government accountable? For 
over 4 years the Bush administration has said ''stay the course.'' 
Democrats and the American people demand accountability and a plan to 
bring our men and women home.

Choices arise only when we start asking ourselves the real questions 
about how we can best support and protect our troops. On these issues, 
there are very clear choices between the Bush administration's ''stay 
the course'' stubbornness and the Democratic plan for accountability.



This bill is not the end-all-be-all when it comes to getting us out 
of Iraq. It is not the long-term solution which


so many of us crave. But it is the first step, a very necessary step, 
on the road to holding the administration and the Iraqi Government 
accountable and bringing our troops home.

Many Democrats did not vote for this war, but make no mistake about 
it, one way or another we will end it. Incidentally, whatever happened 
to exit strategy? Most importantly, we will do so in a manner that 
enhances our security here at home and contributes to the restoration 
of order and stability in the Middle East region and throughout the 
world.

This is an excellent rule, Madam Chairman, and the bill that has been 
fashioned by the Speaker and the leadership of this House is a correct 
start to adhere to the wishes of the American people.