---
---

# None
## `a93d1aa16bcc9ced2f95a01b3bcdb62c`
`Mr. GINGREY â€” 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. GINGREY. Madam Chairman, you have heard some serious, serious 
concerns with this amendment. But whatever the outcome today, we must 
remember what is at stake when it comes to WHINSEC. If we were not to 
engage with the participating nations, Madam Chairman, we would be 
abandoning our most effective means of developing relationships with 
the security forces of these countries. The void created would be 
filled by countries with poor records on democracy and human rights, 
such as Venezuela and China.

Madam Chairman, the friendships fostered at WHINSEC have enabled El 
Salvador, the Dominican Republic, and Honduras to provide well-trained 
forces to our endeavors in Iraq. Further, thanks to the counterdrugs 
civil military and medical assistance courses at WHINSEC, hemispheric 
military police and civilian organizations have also been capably 
providing counterdrugs and disaster-relief capabilities.

Madam Chairman, the success of current and foreseeable future 
conflicts will be highly influenced by the degree of international 
cooperation of allied and friendly countries. This requires engagement 
and building partnerships and relationships. And I certainly look 
forward to working with Chairman Skelton, Admiral Sestak, Mr. Bishop, 
my colleague from Georgia, Mr. Westmoreland, to ensure that we continue 
utilizing WHINSEC for this purpose.

Needless to say, Madam Chairman, since we already have a system in 
place where we're reviewing the names of students attending WHINSEC and 
because the institute is very transparent, I believe the amendment is 
unnecessary and could potentially do much more harm than good.

As for the brochures that the gentleman presented, I can assure him, 
and I'm sure he knows, that those pictures are only published with the 
permission of those students. So I don't think that is in any way 
indicative of what we're talking about here.

With that, Madam Chairman, I would urge my colleagues to defeat this 
amendment. It's a dangerous amendment.