---
---

# JEWISH AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH
## `a9431b6b2024971d2f7c4c2f1563c36d`
`Mr. DEUTCH — 26 May 2010`

---


Mr. DEUTCH. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the American Jewish 
community's many contributions to our Nation's society and culture. I 
would like to thank my dear friend and colleague, Congresswoman Debbie 
Wasserman Schultz, for her outstanding dedication to preserving Jewish 
history and culture in America.

Jewish American Heritage Month gives all Americans the opportunity to 
recognize Jewish Americans as leaders in every facet of America's life, 
from athletics, entertainment, the arts and academia, to business, 
government, and our Armed Forces.



Florida's 19th District is home to the largest, one of the largest 
Jewish American populations in this country.

I'm privileged to represent many first generation Americans whose 
parents arrived on our shores seeking a better life. Many of these 
Jewish Americans are members of the Greatest Generation. They stepped 
up to serve in World War II and rebuilt this Nation after the Great 
Depression. In fact, over half a million Jewish Americans fought for 
the United States in World War II, and 11,000 of them perished fighting 
for our country.

For those who arrived in Europe as the Holocaust raged on, this war 
became very personal. As a quote from a Jewish Air Force officer reads, 
As a Jew, it was Hitler and me. That is the way I picture the war.

While the contributions of Jewish American soldiers during World War 
II cannot be understated, the truth is that Jewish American soldiers 
have been fighting for this country since the Revolutionary War.

Colonel Isaac Franks and Major Benjamin Nones were aides de camp to 
General George Washington. Commodore Uriah Phillips Levy, who served in 
the War of 1812, was court-martialed six times due to his defiance of 
anti-Semitism. And by the time the Civil War broke out, there were 
150,000 Jews in the United States, with 7,000 fighting for the North 
and 3,000 fighting for the South. Senator Judah Benjamin even served as 
Secretary of State for the Confederacy. And although Jews only made up 
2 percent of the population during World War I, they made up 6 percent 
of the United States Armed Forces.

Jewish Americans have served in Korea and Vietnam. They've served in 
Operation Desert Storm and in countless operations around the globe. 
They're among the brave young men and women who served after September 
11 in the war on terror and who are serving bravely and valiantly in 
Iraq and Afghanistan, even as we speak.

And as we approach Memorial Day, I recognize those Jewish war 
veterans who made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom, like Major Stuart 
Wolfer, a Jewish American major from my district, a loving father of 
three daughters who was killed by rocket fire in Baghdad 2 years ago.

Since the Congressional Medal of Honor, Jewish Americans have been 
awarded this high honor for their dedicated service to this Nation 
since it was created. Six Jewish Americans received the award in the 
Civil War, two in the Indian wars in the late 1800s, three in World War 
I, two in World War II, one in the Vietnam conflict.

I am proud to also note that Florida's 19th District is home to one 
of the


largest chapters of the Jewish War Veterans of America. These brave men 
and women embody true patriotism, and their dedication to this great 
country is captured in their mission statement, which reads:

We, citizens of the United States of America of the Jewish faith who 
served in the wars of the United States of America, in order that we 
may be of greater service to our country and to one another, associate 
ourselves together for the following purposes:

To maintain true allegiance to the United States of America;

To foster and perpetuate true Americanism;

To combat whatever tends to impair the efficiency and permanency of 
our free institutions;

To uphold the fair name of the Jew and fight his or her battles 
wherever unjustly assailed;

To encourage the doctrine of universal liberty, equal rights, and 
full justice to all men and women;

To combat the powers of bigotry and darkness wherever originating and 
whatever their target; and

To preserve the spirit of comradeship by mutual helpfulness to 
comrades and their families.

The mission of this wonderful organization holds a special 
significance to me. I'm the proud son of a Jewish war veteran who 
volunteered as a teenager to serve our country and fought in the Battle 
of the Bulge, where he earned a Purple Heart.

My dad's no longer with us today, but with every veteran that I meet, 
I hear his voice and remember his love of country. It's a love of 
country that so many Jewish Americans hold in their hearts. Those who 
practice the Jewish faith hold in high regard a value for service, for 
justice and progress for all people.

These are values also embedded in the very fabric of this country. 
And it's for this reason today, on the fifth anniversary of Jewish 
American Heritage Month, that I am so proud to recognize the Jewish 
American men and women who, for centuries, not only have shaped our 
national culture, but have defended our people in times of great 
challenge.

Thank you, Mr. Speaker. And thank you, Congresswoman Wasserman 
Schultz for arranging this wonderful evening.