---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `a94e3b8b172665954a640a7df5da134f`
`Mr. DONNELLY — 15 June 2007`

---


Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. Chairman, I want to commend you on this bill and 
what a tremendous job your committee has done in producing this. I want 
to make sure that the Veterans Administration uses the added resources 
that you have provided to help reduce the disability claims that we 
have seen getting backlogged. We need to reduce that backlog in the 
most efficient manner possible.

Mr. Chairman, I strongly support this underlying bill. For the first 
time in years, Congress is going to provide the kind of resources the 
VA should have in order to provide the level of health care and 
customer service that America's veterans have earned through their 
service.

I commend you and the committee for drafting a bill that we can all 
be proud of and that works for our veterans.

Today, America's disabled veterans must wait an average of almost 6 
months for the VA to make a decision on their initial claim. Right now, 
as we speak, almost half a million veterans have pending claims that 
have already exceeded that 6-month time period, a period of time, I 
believe, that is far, far too long.

With hundreds of thousands of returning veterans from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, we can only expect the demand for services to rise. This 
is an unacceptable situation, as you well know, Mr. Chairman, and it's 
a result from two occurrences, insufficient resources at the VA to 
process claims and a system that fundamentally needs to be improved. We 
commend you because this bill starts to address the funding issues that 
we face.

H.R. 2642 provides invaluable new resources to address the VA's 
deficiencies, including funding for over 1,000 additional claim 
workers. I want to make sure the VA is doing everything possible in 
considering every opportunity to use the funds you are using in a wise 
fashion.

The Government Accountability Office has made eight commonsense 
recommendations to how it can improve the disability claims process at 
the VA. This report, most recently reiterated on May 25, is a report 
that deals with our wounded warriors and how to take care of them 
better. It has eight strategic ways to fix the disability claims 
situation.

However, according to the GAO, the VA is not moving on these eight 
recommendations. I think the Congress should know why the VA is not 
moving forward with these, and if they do move forward, they should let 
us know when and how they are going to implement these recommendations. 
We should require the VA to report back to Congress on what it is doing 
to implement the GAO recommendations and how they can improve this 
process.

Mr. Chairman, we are grateful. The veterans of Indiana's Second 
District are grateful for the increase in funds, and we ask your help 
in making sure that the VA uses those funds in a wise way and reduces 
the disability claims backlog.