# WOUNDED WARRIOR ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007
## `a95d7b0b605dc8177a594fb11b71e191`
`Ms. HIRONO — 28 March 2007`

---


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. Chairman, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 1538, 
the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, which will help correct the 
unconscionable deficiencies exposed by the Washington Post at the 
Walter Reed Army Medical Center. H.R. 1538 will improve the delivery of 
medical services to our wounded warriors who have done all that we have


asked of them. We now must honor our commitment to them to care for 
them when they are injured.

H.R. 1538 provides the basic services we would have expected for our 
wounded service personnel such as readily available case managers and 
advocates to assist incapacitated patients receive appropriate care, 
improved training of health care professionals and better monitoring of 
out-patients to ease the transition to the VA medical care system. The 
Walter Reed experience showed that we cannot rely on the current system 
to provide these basic services and care.

I am particularly pleased with the attention we will finally pay to 
the mental injuries, such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, that can 
be as crippling and incapacitating to our soldiers and veterans as 
physical injuries.

When I spoke on House Concurrent Resolution 63 opposing the 
President's surge, I mentioned CPT Lisa Blackman, a clinical 
psychologist, who cared for soldiers who suffered devastating emotional 
and mental harm inflicted while serving in Iraq and chronicled their 
troubling and heart-breaking torment in the book, Operation Homecoming.

These brave troops, who suffered severe physical as well as mental 
injuries, shamefully did not receive proper treatment after faithfully 
serving their country. H.R. 1538 properly recognizes the sacrifices our 
troops have made and provides the long overdue care and medical 
services our troops should properly expect and deserve from their 
government.