# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `a95eede464a068593c06164aaeafbda9`
`Mr. HUNTER — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution by the Democrat leadership sends a 
message to three parties: America's enemies, America's friends, and 
America's troops. And I think it is going to be received by friend and 
foe alike as the first sound of retreat in the world battle against 
extremists and terrorists.

Mr. Speaker, we are not stopping anything with this resolution. In 
fact, the Big Red One is already moving its first brigade toward Iraq; 
the 82nd Airborne, America's all-American division, is already in Iraq. 
In fact, the Second Brigade is already in their sector in Baghdad. As a 
matter of fact, in the Baghdad plan, which reinforcements are serving, 
all nine sectors now have American and Iraqi forces in place and 
operating. So you are not stopping anything; you are simply sending a 
message, and it is the wrong message. Because this Nation has been for 
the last 60 years involved in spreading freedom, and it is in America's 
interest to spread freedom. Nobody would say that it is in our interest 
or it is not in our interest, for example, to have a free Japan on that 
side of the Pacific, or to have a free El Salvador in our own 
hemisphere, or to have those nations which were behind the Iron 
Curtain, nations like Poland, now standing side by side with us in 
Iraq. It is in our interest to spread freedom.

Mr. Speaker, I have been here before. A lot of us have. I remember in 
the 1980s, when Ronald Reagan was standing up to the Russians in Europe 
and the USSR was ringing our allies in France and Germany with SS-20 
missiles, and the President of the United States moved to offset those 
missiles with Pershing IIs and ground-launched cruise missiles, and you 
had from the left a call that this was going to start World War III. 
And you had pundits throughout this country, as a matter of fact 
somebody showed me an old headline the other day, ''Better Red Than 
Dead,'' which emanated from that debate and that action.

But we stood tough, we offset the Russians, we showed strength, and 
at some point the Russians picked up the phone and said, ''Can we 
talk?'' And when we talked, we talked about the disassembly of the 
Soviet Empire.

In our own hemisphere, when we went in and helped that fragile 
government in El Salvador and stood up a little shield around that 
government, we had people saying that is going to be the next Vietnam 
for the United States. Well, it wasn't a Vietnam for the United States, 
and Salvadorans are standing with Americans now in Iraq. In fact, I 
think we have got people who died of old age waiting anxiously for the 
next Vietnam.

Now we are in a different part of the world, and it is a tough 
mission, and moving freedom and spreading freedom in that part of the 
world is very, very difficult. And I would just say to my colleagues, 
my friends who have talked about the smooth road not taken, how we have 
made mistakes; if we just kept that Iraqi in place of Saddam Hussein's, 
somehow things would be better now. Saddam Hussein's army had 11,000 
Sunni generals. Now, what are you going to do with an army with 11,000 
Sunni generals whose mission is to stabilize a population which is in 
the majority Shiite?



A lot of people have said we should have had 200,000 to 300,000 
troops in country. Now at the same time they would say we have got to 
put an Iraqi face on this occupation. How do you put an Iraqi face on 
the occupation with 200,000 or 300,000 Americans in country?

The facts are, there is no smooth road. This is a tough and difficult 
road. Our military planners have come up with a strategy. It involves 
nine sectors in Baghdad with Iraqi troops to the front and with backup 
American battalions behind them, mentoring them, giving them advice, 
and in many cases stiffening their spine.



Now, there is no guarantee of success. But this is a first time. I 
think we should check our history, and my friend, Mr. Skelton, I think 
you should check our history and see if this Congress has ever, after a 
military operation is already in place, is already moving forward, the 
Big Red One is already moving out. The all-American division, the 82nd 
Airborne, already has troops in place in combat, in the city, that we 
retroactively say, you know, we don't support this. The only message 
that can possibly send to the rest of the world is a fractured message.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to end with a comment, with a quotation from 
Douglas MacArthur in his farewell speech at West Point. I thought it 
was appropriate for these times. He talks about the American soldier, 
and he says this, ''Their story is known to all of you. It is the story 
of the American man at arms. My estimate of him was formed on the 
battlefields many, many years ago, and has never changed. I regarded 
him then, as I regard him now, as one of the world's noblest figures; 
not only as one of the finest military characters, but also as one of 
the most stainless.

''His name and fame are the birthright of every American citizen. In 
his youth and strength, his love and loyalty, he gave all that 
mortality can give. He needs no eulogy from me, or from any other man. 
He has written his own history and written it in red on his enemy's 
breast.''

Mr. Speaker, our soldiers are engaged in combat right now. The worst 
disservice that we can give to them is to retroactively blast and 
degrade the mission that they are currently undertaking. There is no 
good role, there is no good purpose that is served by this.

So I would ask all my colleagues, let us get behind not only our 
troops, let us get behind their mission. Let us vote ''no'' on this 
resolution.