# None
## `a9668a5b43d5fe4a705c0321c3d901c6`
`Mr. DURBIN — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, the objection is heard, and I think it 
is very clear. You cannot object to the vote, say you are ready to 
vote, and then object to the vote. You cannot have it both ways.

The fact is, when you look at these past votes on the Defense 
authorization bill, they don't make the case that the Senator from 
Arizona and the Senator from Mississippi say. I will go through each 
one of them:

For the year 2000, considering the fiscal year 2001 Defense 
authorization bill, of 14 amendments on which there were rollcall 
votes, only 1 required 60 votes because it involved a budget waiver. In 
2001, when we considered the fiscal year 2002 Defense authorization 
bill, of the 2 amendments on which there were rollcall votes, all were 
simple majorities; no 60-vote requirements. In 2002, for the 2003 
Defense authorization bill, of the 5 amendments on which there were 
rollcall votes, only 1 60-vote requirement; again, a specific budget 
waiver, which is not the case with the pending amendment. In 2003, when 
we considered the 2004 Defense authorization, of the 10 amendments on 
which there were rollcall votes, all were simple majorities; no 60-vote 
requirements. In 2004, with the 2005 Defense authorization, of the 30 
amendments on which there were rollcall votes, all were simple 
majorities; no 60-vote requirements. In 2004, with the 2005 Defense 
authorization, of the 30 amendments on which there were rollcall votes, 
only 2 required an extraordinary majority of 60 votes, both requiring 
budget waivers. In 2005 when we considered the Defense authorization 
bill for 2006, for 25 amendments they were simple majority votes. None 
required 60 votes. In 2006, when considering the fiscal year 2007 
Defense authorization bill, 15 amendments, only 2 required 60 votes. 
They related to the minimum wage. They required budget waivers. Those 
are the only 2.

Let me also correct the record. When the Senator from Arizona says we 
don't take up the war in Iraq on the Defense authorization bill, I 
would remind him that in the last Defense authorization bill, there 
were two specific amendments offered relative to the conduct of the war 
in Iraq--on this very bill last year: one by Senator Levin and Senator 
Reed, another by Senator John Kerry, both of which only required a 
majority vote.

I would say from the Senator from Arizona's point of view, there is 
scant evidence to support his position that No. 1, we never considered 
Iraq on Defense authorization bills--we just did last year; No. 2, we 
always require 60 votes when it comes to amendments on the bills. Six 
times in 7 years we did, each one because of a budget issue that is not 
involved in the Levin amendment.

Let me say a word about the other things said by the Senator from 
Arizona before yielding the floor. I respect the men and women in 
uniform. I have been to Iraq twice. I have visited with them. I have 
been to send-offs in my State of Illinois as National Guard units have 
been activated. I have been there to welcome them home. I carry on many 
conversations with the Illinois soldiers overseas. I keep in touch with 
their families. I respect them very much. But to say this is the first 
time we have heard from generals in Iraq that they just need another 6 
months or another year, I think the Senator from Arizona knows better. 
We have been told this over and over again: When they stand up, we will 
stand down. Do you remember that one? How many years have we been 
hearing that? How many hundreds of millions of dollars have we put into 
Iraq for training Iraqi Army soldiers? Yet we are still there with a 
larger force today than there we were just a year ago.

So when my colleague argues that just a little more time is all they 
need, I hope he will understand the skepticism of the American people 
and many Members of the Senate. We have heard this before over and over 
again.

I also want to take issue with one point the Senator from Arizona 
said--and I am sure he didn't mean to mislead anyone. We are not 
talking about withdrawing the troops in 120 days, which is what has 
been said over and over again. The Levin-Reed amendment begins the 
withdrawal of troops in 120 days, completing it on April 1 of next 
year--transitioning by April 1 to a different force; not the combat 
force we know now caught in the midst of a civil war but a force with 
the specified mission of fighting al-Qaida and other terrorism, of 
helping transition the Iraqi Army to self-defense, and protecting our 
own men and women and our assets and security during this transition. 
Those things are all included in this bill. So this notion that somehow 
in a matter of 120 days all the troops will be gone, that isn't even 
envisioned in the Levin-Reed amendment.


So I would say to my friend from Arizona: Yes, I guess my patience 
has worn thin. I guess I have heard from too many generals such as 
those quoted by the Senator from Arizona that they just need a little 
more time. I have seen what time has cost us. It has cost us American 
lives. It has cost us serious, debilitating injuries. It has cost us a 
great deal in terms of our national treasure and resources. I think it 
is time for a change of policy, and so do the American people. They 
said that in the last election. They don't want us to dream up 
procedural obstacles to keep us from this decision. They want us to 
vote up or down to change the policy or keep the policy. That is what 
we were sent here to do.

I hope the Republican side of the aisle, as they initiate this 
filibuster, as they try to stop us from coming to a majority vote on 
the Levin-Reed amendment, understand that America sees that clearly.

I yield the floor.