# STUDENT LOAN SUNSHINE ACT
## `a9859ed693dd1cb4c7608d1cb6372e08`
`Mr. KELLER of Florida — 9 May 2007`

---


Mr. KELLER of Florida. I thank the gentleman for yielding. And I 
appreciate the Freudian slip by Congressman Chairman Miller. I still am 
Republican. I am reminded every day when my parking space is now out in 
Maryland that I'm a Member of the minority party here.

I rise today in support of the Student Loan Sunshine Act, H.R. 890, 
for three specific reasons.

First, this legislation fully includes legislation that I authored 
called the One-Stop Financial Aid Information Act, H.R. 1522, which 
creates an easy-to-use one-stop Web site for students and their 
families about financial aid information for college, including 
information about Pell Grants, student loans and scholarships offered 
by various Federal agencies. Far too many young people give up on their 
chance to go to college because they lack information about the various 
grants and scholarships available to them. Now they will have all this 
information right there at their fingertips as a result of an easy-to-
access link right there on the home page of ed.gov.

I want to especially thank Congressman Henry Cuellar of Texas. It was 
Congressman Cuellar who actually conceived of this idea and shared it 
with me on a codel that he and I had to Iraq based on his positive 
experience with a similar Web site in Texas, and he is a coauthor of 
this provision.

The second reason I support this legislation is because it 
specifically includes a financial aid code of conduct that must be 
adopted by colleges; and that language is taken out of the bill 
authored by Congressman Buck McKeon called the Financial Aid 
Accountability and Transparency Act, H.R. 1994. In a nutshell, it 
provides that there shall be no conflicts of interests, gifts or 
revenue sharing between lenders and colleges or their employees.

The third reason I support this legislation is because it does not 
ban preferred lender lists under the market-based FFEL program. Now 
after the recent student loan scandal, some of which was highlighted by 
Attorney General Andrew Cuomo of New York, there was a temptation on a 
handful of people's part to overreact. Some wanted to abolish or place 
a moratorium on preferred lender lists. Some even suggested that we 
switch from the market-based FFEL program to direct lending. This 
appropriate legislation doesn't contain that overreaction, and I'm 
proud that it doesn't, and the reason is preferred lender lists play a 
very positive role when done right.

There are literally over a thousand student lenders. Some of those 
lenders have lower interest rates, low origination fees, more flexible 
terms for deferring repayments and better customer service. On the 
other hand, there are lenders that have higher rates and fees, bad 
customer service and can be characterized as fly-by-night operations. 
It's pretty hard to tell if you're an 18-year-old kid which lender is 
which, but if you're a financial aid administrator who has been in the 
business for two or three decades, you can give some guidance into that 
issue.

This bill specifically allows these preferred lenders to still have a 
preferred lender list, provided that each college gives a choice of at 
least three lenders, the college disclose why they were selected as a 
lender, and the college disclose what terms they remain a lender. That 
is a pretty fair and appropriate response to the scandals that we have 
had and a pretty good contrast to what we have with the Federal direct 
lending program where a college says you only have one lender, it's the 
Federal Government, and there is no competition for lower fees or 
rates.

In closing, Mr. Speaker, this legislation helps to rein in some of 
the bad apples in the student loan industry, while preserving the 
healthy and appropriate competition between the direct lending and FFEL 
program. For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to vote ''yes'' on 
this legislation.