# PAKISTAN ENDURING ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2009
## `a9939e540e3e3c37c9b8a7bd8112636f`
`Mr. SCOTT of Georgia â€” 11 June 2009`

---


Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.

This is really the most critical, the most important piece of 
legislation facing us right now. The situation in Pakistan is very 
tenuous; it is very critical. We have before us a very significant 
piece of legislation that has been expertly crafted. Yes, trade is a 
part of it because trade is important at this time to make sure that we 
are able to help sustain the economy of Pakistan at this very critical 
time.

Pakistan is in a fragile situation. Military aid is in here, yes, 
because Pakistan needs this. But we have the safeguards here because, 
let me just say, the other side mentioned something a little while back 
about the Department of Defense and their role. Let us go back for an 
example in Afghanistan.

In Afghanistan, we do not want another repeat of the very significant 
problem that the Department of Defense had in Afghanistan with losing--
yes, losing--significant military equipment to the Taliban.



The U.S. taxpayers deserve better, and in this bill we are giving 
them better. We are giving the oversight. In essence, we are making 
sure that aid that we give to Pakistan is properly used, that oversight 
is in place, that benchmarks are in place. We're making sure that any 
entity that is being used, whether it's military or certainly their 
nuclear weapons, do not fall into terrorists' hands or into other 
hands. We've made sure, under the leadership of Ms. Lee, who's on this 
committee, with the chairman's manager's amendment, that we have 
safeguards in here to make sure that none of these funds are used to 
even expand their nuclear capacity.

This is an extraordinary bill at an extraordinary time. It is heavily 
bipartisan, and I commend the chairman on an excellent piece of 
legislation.