# PAKISTAN WAR POWERS RESOLUTION
## `a99cac7d03999e9c7e92427c60497542`
`Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN â€” 27 July 2010`

---


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.

I believe that this dangerous resolution is less about U.S. policy 
toward Pakistan than it is about Afghanistan and a back-door attempt to 
force U.S. withdrawal from that country. Because our success in 
Afghanistan is directly linked to our effort in Pakistan, withdraw from 
the latter, and you may bring defeat in both.

In response to the September 11 attacks, Congress authorized the 
President to use all necessary and appropriate force against the 
perpetrators of those attacks, including against those who harbored 
such organizations or persons in order to prevent future acts of 
international terrorism against the United States.

But al Qaeda and its allies in Pakistan fit that description 
precisely. Our wonderful U.S. personnel in Afghanistan are there to 
train and support Pakistani military and security forces to enable them 
to battle their own insurgencies, including al Qaeda and other threats.

Much of this training is not combat related, but instead is focused 
on helping Pakistan undertake civil, military operations aimed at 
establishing stable and effective civilian authority in areas that are 
now off limits and serve as safe havens for extremist groups.

Far from withdrawing, we must work with Pakistan to do more against 
the militant networks in that country that use it and neighboring 
Afghanistan as a launching pad from which to direct attacks against us 
and our allies. The adoption of this resolution would undo our efforts 
to accomplish these goals and build trust and credibility with 
Pakistani leaders and the Pakistani people that will help provide for 
long-term stability and advance our long-term interests.

Mr. Speaker, removing our personnel from Pakistan would present al 
Qaeda with a gift that it desperately needs and convince it and the 
world that it is winning the fight, thereby inevitably enhancing its 
prestige, confidence, ambitions, resources, and recruits. If this 
resolution were adopted, it would make it more difficult, and perhaps 
impossible, for General Petraeus to effectively implement the strategy 
that he is pursuing in Afghanistan and that is being carried out by our 
brave men and women serving there.

Some will focus on the information reportedly contained in the many 
thousands of classified U.S. documents related to the conflict against 
al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan, that is, on a 
reckless and irresponsible act which compromises U.S. security as 
justification for this resolution.

Some of those documents reflect the legacy of mistrust between the 
United States and Pakistan as well as between Pakistan and Afghanistan, 
a legacy which we are even now trying to overcome through enhanced 
dialogue.

I am gravely concerned that those leaked documents may have put in 
jeopardy coalition troops and our military missions. As National 
Security Adviser General James Jones has warned, the leaks could ''put 
the lives of Americans and our partners at risk and threaten our 
national security.''

But we would be compounding the risk and further undermining our 
efforts against radical Islamic militants in Pakistan and in 
Afghanistan if this Congress would take this knee-jerk approach to our 
national security and military strategy by adopting this resolution 
before us.

Instead, we must remain focused on our mission, on success, on 
prevailing against the global jihadist network. These Islamist radicals 
in Pakistan and Afghanistan, who seek to destabilize our allies and 
attack our Nation and our interest, are driven and are focused on 
carrying out their deadly mission.

We must, in turn, demonstrate that we possess the strength of 
character, the commitment, the wherewithal to counter al Qaeda, the 
Taliban and other enemies at every turn. We must not be looking at any 
opportunity or excuse to seek an immediate withdrawal from the 
epicenter of violent extremism, as Pakistan and Afghanistan have been 
described.
















{time}
164


I strongly urge my colleagues to vote against this dangerous measure, 
and I reserve the balance of my time.