# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `a9a4e41b8b83d7f9d3e2bb82b09082ef`
`Mr. CASEY — 23 February 2010`

---


Mr. CASEY. The one that focused on his family begins with this line, 
speaking of Larry Johnson's family:




 Johanna Johnson thought she would die first, not any of her 


 four kids.


This is what Larry's mom is quoted as saying in the second line of 
the story:




 You're not supposed to bury your son. Your son is supposed 


 to bury you. It isn't supposed to be this way.


The story went on to talk about what Larry's hopes and dreams were, 
not only for himself but for his own mother. The story says that Larry 
Johnson ''loved his mom so much that he always promised he would some 
day make sure she no longer had to work. He would buy her a double-
block home in California, and she would live on one side and live off 
the rent from the other half.'' That was a soldier's dream for his 
mother--just 19 years old and not only thinking about the rest of his 
life, not only volunteering to serve his country in the Marine Corps 
and going to Afghanistan, but to have a dream--a dream for his mother's 
future that he hoped to bring to fruition.

Larry Johnson's sister Ashley is 21 years old, just 2 years older 
than Larry. She talked about the knock at the door that no family, no 
mother or father, no brother or sister--no loved one--ever wants to be 
present for. But Ashley heard the knock at the door. It was a hard 
knock at the door, she remembered. The one marine who was at the door 
asked, ''Is your mom home?''

This is what Ashley said after that. She went to turn away, and she 
asked herself: Wait, did something happen to my brother? He never 
actually said--the marine at the door--that Larry Michael Johnson was 
dead, but Ashley said the following:




 I just knew. I saw the look on their face that he was dead. 


 I didn't even have to ask the question.


The story goes on to talk about Larry's father, by the same name--
Larry--who was an Army veteran who served his country as well. It is 
talking about how his father prepared him to go into the Marine Corps 
once Larry made the decision to become a marine.

Then the story ends with a couple of references to, again, Larry's 
mom--the one he had a dream for, the one he wanted to build a house in 
California for someday in the future. The story says:




 At Christmas, he sent his mother a deep fryer and a crock 


 pot that he bought online from WalMart.


He wanted to send that to her.

It says:




 On patrol, he would sometimes call [his mother] via a 


 satellite phone, sometimes when he should not have.


But, again, he loved his mother.

Johanna Johnson is quoted toward the end of the story:




 He'd be out on a mission and he would call me. He always 


 worried about his mother.


There is really not a lot more I could say about his life and his 
sacrifice than what was contained in this story about what it means to 
serve, what it means to give, as I said before, in Lincoln's words, 
''the last full measure of devotion to your country.'' But we know that 
when these lives are lost, it is not just about service, it is not just 
about combat and the military or the Marine Corps. All of that is 
relevant and critically important, but in the end these stories are 
about families, about mothers and fathers and brothers and sisters.

For those who have loved and lost, we do our best to try to 
understand, but we can never fully understand what Johanna Johnson and 
her family are living through these last few days and will live with 
the rest of their lives. They will be able to manage that loss. They 
will be able to move on. But they will never be fully recovered from 
that kind of a loss.

We are thinking of Larry Johnson and his family today. We are praying 
for them. We want him and his family to know, in our own small way, how 
much we appreciate his sacrifice.

Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.