# MILITARY RESERVIST AND VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS REAUTHORIZATION AND  OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2008
## `a9b22868a9214063894e9765dd79ca47`
`Mr. KERRY — 31 January 2008`

---


Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I am pleased to see the Military Reservist 
and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization and Opportunity Act of 2008, 
a bill that Senator Snowe and I developed, pass the Senate today. 
Veterans have sacrificed in the defense of our country, and they have 
earned the support of their Government in reentering civilian life. 
Senators Hagel, Cantwell, Landrieu, Lieberman, and Tester are 
cosponsors of this bill.

There are currently 24 million veterans in America, including over 
1.3 million who have left military service since 2001. As the conflicts 
in Iraq and Afghanistan continue, it becomes increasingly vital that 
returning service-members receive the assistance they need to reenter 
civilian life. According to the Department of Labor, the unemployment 
rate among recently discharged veterans is more than double the 
national overall unemployment rate: 11.9 percent compared to 4.6 
percent. In addition, 55 percent of self-employed reservists 
experienced income loss when deployed, and 22 percent said that their 
business suffered serious or very serious harm.

As chairman of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, 
addressing the concerns of veteran entrepreneurs remains a top 
priority. In January 2007, the committee's first hearing, ''Assessing 
Federal Small Business Assistance Programs for Veterans and 
Reservists,'' looked at the issues facing veterans who wish to start or 
grow a small business. In March, the committee released a report, ''The 
State of Veteran Entrepreneurship'' which described the issues facing 
veterans and listed a series of recommendations to fix those problems. 
The Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization and 
Opportunity Act of 2008 is based on those recommendations.

Senator Snowe and I introduced S. 1784, the Military Reservist and 
Veteran Small Business Reauthorization and Opportunity Act of 2007, on 
July 12, 2007. In September, that bill was added by unanimous consent 
as an amendment to the Department of Defense authorization bill; 
however, unfortunately, it was dropped in the final conference 
negotiations. In November, after working closely to address concerns of 
other Members of the Senate, the bill passed the Senate by unanimous 
consent again, and the House took up the measure on January 16. An 
amended version passed the House on the same day, and the amended bill 
was passed by the Senate today. The House changes included removing a 
study looking at the tax and regulatory barriers facing veterans and 
reinserting Senate language requiring veteran and military service 
organizations to serve on a new interagency task force. Although this 
bill has changed from what I envisioned many months ago, it is an 
important step forward in supporting the American dream of business 
ownership for veterans and reservists, and I am gratified to see it 
pass the Senate and urge the President to sign it as quickly as 
possible.

The Military Reservist and Veteran Small Business Reauthorization and 
Opportunity Act of 2007 takes a number of steps to improve the 
Government's role in supporting our veterans. Specifically, it 
reauthorizes the veterans programs in the Small Business 
Administration. This legislation increases the funding authorization 
for the Office of Veteran Business Development from $2 million today to 
$2.3 million over 2 years. In light of the large numbers of veterans 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and increased responsibilities 
placed on this office by Executive Order 13360, it is high time that 
the Office of Veteran Business Development receive the funding levels 
that it needs.

The bill also creates an interagency task force to improve 
coordination between agencies in administrating veteran small business 
programs. One of the biggest complaints that our committee heard at its 
hearing last January was that Federal agencies do not work together in 
reaching out to veterans and informing them about small business 
programs. This task force will focus on increasing veterans' small 
business success, including procurement and franchising opportunities, 
access to capital, and other types of business development assistance.

This bill also permanently extends the SBA Advisory Committee on 
Veterans Business Affairs. The committee was created to serve as an 
independent source of advice and policy recommendations to the SBA, the 
Congress, and the President. The veteran small business owners who 
serve on this committee provide a unique perspective, which is sorely 
needed at this challenging time. Unfortunately, continuing uncertainty 
about the committee's future has, at times, distracted the committee 
from focusing on its core function. Therefore, I have called for its 
permanent extension. It is clear to me that more needs to be done to 
address the issues facing veterans and reservists, and the role this 
committee plays will continue to be important.

Additionally, I have taken a number of steps to better serve the 
reservists


who are serving their country abroad while their businesses are 
suffering at home. Over the past decade, the Department of Defense has 
increased its reliance on the National Guard and Reserves. This has 
intensified since September 11, and increased deployments are expected 
to continue. The effect of this increase on reservists and small 
businesses continues to remain of concern. A 2003 GAO report indicated 
that 41 percent of reservists lost income when mobilized. This had a 
higher effect on self-employed reservists, 55 percent of whom lost 
income.

In 1999, I created the Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster 
Loan, MREIDL, program to provide loans to small businesses that incur 
economic injury as result of an essential employee being called to 
active duty. However, since 2002, fewer than 300 of these loans have 
been approved by the SBA, despite record numbers of reservists being 
called to active duty. It is clear that changes need to be made, so 
that reservists are informed about the availability of the MREIDL 
program and that the program better meets their needs. At our hearing 
last January, we heard suggestions for a number of changes, which would 
improve the Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, 
and I have included those changes in this bill. They include increasing 
the application deadline for such a loan from 90 days to 1 year 
following the date of discharge, creating a predeployment loan approval 
process, and improved outreach and technical assistance.

This bill also increases to $50,000 the amount SBA can disburse 
without requiring collateral under the MREIDL program. Reservist 
families have already sacrificed enough when a family member is called 
to serve their country. They should not have to forfeit the success of 
their business and their livelihood as well. This loan program would 
allow reservist-dependent businesses to access the capital they need to 
stay afloat without having to sacrifice beyond the service of the key 
employees. In order to give reservists time to repay the loans, the 
noncollateralized loan created in this bill would not accumulate 
interest or require payments for 1 year or until after the deployment 
ends, whichever is longer.

There are two more provisions, which will help this Nation's 
servicemembers. One section of the bill will require the SBA to give 
priority to MREIDL loans during loan processing. Another provision will 
give activated servicemembers an extension of any SBA time limitations 
equal to the time spent on active duty. This will make it easier for 
servicemembers to serve their country while continuing to meet their 
obligations at home.

Lastly, this bill calls for two reports. One report will look at the 
needs of service-disabled veterans who are interested in becoming 
entrepreneurs. As a result of the war on terror and improved medicine, 
we are seeing more service-disabled veterans than we have seen in 
decades. For some service-disabled veterans, entrepreneurship is the 
best or only way of achieving economic independence. Therefore, it is 
essential that we understand and take steps to address the needs of the 
service-disabled veteran entrepreneur or small business owner.

This bill also calls for a study to investigate how to improve 
relations between reservists and their employers. In January, the 
committee heard that recent changes by the Department of Defense to 
policies regulating the length and frequency of reservist deployments 
is harming the ability of reservists to find jobs and the ability of 
small business owners to continue hiring them. Understanding more about 
this issue is important and essential to making sure that policymakers 
can continue to support citizen soldiers and the small businesses that 
employ them.

The bill also includes a number of other important provisions that 
were added by the House. For instance, this bill includes language 
directing the Office of Veterans Business Development to increase the 
number of Veterans Business Outreach Centers and requires them to 
improve their participation in the Transition Assistance Program. This 
bill also creates a program reducing 7(a) loan fees for veterans, 
improves Small Business Development Centers outreach to the veteran 
community, and instructs the Associate Administrator of the Office of 
Veterans Business Development to create and disseminate information 
aimed at informing women veterans about the resources available to 
them. I am pleased that the House and Senate were able to come to an 
agreement on these provisions.

Veterans possess great technical skills and valuable leadership 
experience, but they require financial resources and small business 
training to turn that potential into a viable enterprise. A recent 
report by the Small Business Administration stated that 22 percent of 
veterans plan to start or are starting a business when they leave the 
military. For service-disabled veterans, this number rises to 28 
percent.

We owe veterans and reservists more than a simple thank you for their 
service. The least we can do is provide critical resources to help them 
start and grow small business and to hold Federal agencies accountable. 
That is what our bill does.
