---
---

# FORGETTING THE LESSONS OF HISTORY
## `a9b592d1c542054a96576b2e7fb8a565`
`Mr. ABERCROMBIE — 16 February 2007`

---


Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Madam Speaker, the following 1984 speech by former 
Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger provides an important 
perspective on the use of military force in Iraq.












The Uses of Military Power''












 (By Caspar W. Weinberger)




 Thank you for inviting me to be here today with the members 


 of the National Press Club, a group most important to our 


 national security. I say that because a major point I intend 


 to make in my remarks today is that the single most critical 


 element of a successful democracy is a strong consensus of 


 support and agreement for our basic purposes. Policies formed 


 without a clear understanding of what we hope to achieve will 


 never work. And you help to build that understanding among 


 our citizens.



 Of all the many policies our citizens deserve and need to 


 understand, none is so important as those related to our 


 topic today the uses of military power. Deterrence will work 


 only if the Soviets understand our firm commitment to keeping 


 the peace, . . . and only from a well-informed public can we 


 expect to have that national will and commitment.



 So today, I want to discuss with you perhaps the most 


 important question concerning keeping the peace. Under what 


 circumstances, and by what means, does a great democracy such 


 as ours reach the painful decision that the use of military 


 force is necessary to protect our interests or to carry out 


 our national policy?



 National power has many components, some tangible, like 


 economic wealth, technical pre-eminence. Other components are 


 intangible such as moral force, or strong national will. 


 Military forces, when they are




 strong and ready and modern, are a credible and tangible 


 addition to a nation's power. When both the intangible 


 national will and those forces are forged into one 


 instrument, national power becomes effective.



 In today's world, the line between peace and war is less 


 clearly drawn than at any time in our history. When George 


 Washington, in his farewell address, warned us, as a new 


 democracy, to avoid foreign entanglements, Europe then lay 2-


 3 months by sea over the horizon. The United States was 


 protected by the width of the oceans. Now in this nuclear 


 age, we measure time in minutes rather than months.



 Aware of the consequences of any misstep, yet convinced of 


 the precious worth of the freedom we enjoy, we seek to avoid 


 conflict, while maintaining strong defenses. Our policy has 


 always been to work hard for peace, but to be prepared if war 


 comes. Yet, so blurred have the lines become between open 


 conflict and half-hidden hostile acts that we cannot 


 confidently predict where, or when, or how, or from what 


 direction aggression may arrive. We must be prepared, at any 


 moment, to meet threats ranging in intensity from isolated 


 terrorist acts, to guerrilla action, to full-scale military 


 confrontation.



 Alexander Hamilton, writing in the Federalist Papers, said 


 that it is impossible to foresee or define the extent and 


 variety of national exigencies, or the correspondent extent 


 and variety of the means, which may be necessary to satisfy 


 them. If it was true then, how much more true it is today, 


 when we must remain ready to consider the means to meet such 


 serious indirect challenges to the peace as proxy wars and 


 individual terrorist action. And how much more important is 


 it now, considering the consequences of failing to deter 


 conflict at the lowest level possible. While the use of 


 military force to defend territory has never been questioned 


 when a democracy has been attacked and its very survival 


 threatened, most democracies have rejected the unilateral 


 aggressive use of force to invade, conquer or subjugate other 


 nations. The extent to which the use of force is acceptable 


 remains unresolved for the host of other situations which 


 fall between these extremes of defensive and aggressive use 


 of force.



 We find ourselves, then, face to face with a modern 


 paradox: The most likely challenge to the peace--the gray 


 area conflicts--are precisely the most difficult challenges 


 to which a democracy must respond. Yet, while the source and 


 nature of today's challenges are uncertain, our response must 


 be clear and understandable. Unless we are certain that force 


 is essential, we run the risk of inadequate national will to 


 apply the resources needed.



 Because we face a spectrum of threats from covert 


 aggression, terrorism, and subversion, to overt intimidation, 


 to use of brute force, choosing the appropriate level of our 


 response is difficult. Flexible response does not mean just 


 any response is appropriate. But once a decision to employ 


 some degree of force has been made, and the purpose 


 clarified, our government must have the clear mandate to 


 carry out, and continue to carry out, that decision until the 


 purpose has been achieved. That, too, has been difficult to 


 accomplish.



 The issue of which branch of government has authority to 


 define that mandate and make decisions on using force is now 


 being strongly contended. Beginning in the 1970s Congress 


 demanded, and assumed, a far more active role in the making 


 of foreign policy and in the decision-making process for the 


 employment of military forces abroad than had been thought 


 appropriate and practical before. As a result, the centrality 


 of decision-making authority in the Executive branch has been 


 compromised by the Legislative branch to an extent that 


 actively interferes with that process. At the same time, 


 there has not been a corresponding acceptance of 


 responsibility by Congress for the outcome of decisions 


 concerning the employment of military forces.



 Yet the outcome of decisions on whether and when and to 


 what degree to use combat forces abroad has never been more 


 important than it is today. While we do not seek to deter or 


 settle all the world's conflicts, we must recognize that, as 


 a major power, our responsibilities and interests are now of 


 such scope that there are few troubled areas we can afford to 


 ignore. So we must be prepared to deal with a range of 


 possibilities, a spectrum of crises, from local insurgency to 


 global conflict. We prefer, of course, to limit any conflict 


 in its early stages, to contain and control it but to do that 


 our military forces must be deployed in a timely manner, and 


 be fully supported and prepared before they are engaged, 


 because many of those difficult decisions must be made 


 extremely quickly.



 Some on the national scene think they can always avoid 


 making tough decisions. Some reject entirely the question of 


 whether any force can ever be used abroad. They want to avoid 


 grappling with a complex issue because, despite clever 


 rhetoric disguising their purpose, these people are in fact 


 advocating a return to post-World War I isolationism. While 


 they may maintain in principle that military force has a role 


 in foreign policy, they are never willing to name the 


 circumstance or the place where it would apply.



 On the other side, some theorists argue that military force 


 can be brought to bear in any crisis. Some of these 


 proponents of force are eager to advocate its use even in 


 limited amounts simply because they believe that if there are 


 American forces of any size present they will somehow solve 


 the problem.



 Neither of these two extremes offers us any lasting or 


 satisfactory solutions. The first undue reserve would lead us 


 ultimately to withdraw from international events that require 


 free nations to defend their interests from the aggressive 


 use of force. We would be abdicating our responsibilities as 


 the leader of the free world responsibilities more or less 


 thrust upon us in the aftermath of World War II war 


 incidentally that isolationism did nothing to deter. These 


 are responsibilities we must fulfill unless we desire the 


 Soviet Union to keep expanding its influence unchecked 


 throughout the world. In an international system based on 


 mutual interdependence among nations, and alliances 


 between friends, stark isolationism quickly would lead to 


 a far more dangerous situation for the United States: we 


 would be without allies and faced by many hostile or 


 indifferent nations.



 The second alternative employing our forces almost 


 indiscriminately and as a regular and customary part of our 


 diplomatic efforts would surely plunge us headlong into the 


 sort of domestic turmoil we experienced during the Vietnam 


 war, without accomplishing the goal for which we committed 


 our forces. Such policies might very well tear at the fabric 


 of our society, endangering the single most critical element 


 of a successful democracy: a strong consensus of support and 


 agreement for our basic purposes.



 Policies formed without a clear understanding of what we 


 hope to achieve would also earn us the scorn of our troops, 


 who would have an understandable opposition to being used in 


 every sense of the word casually and without intent to 


 support them fully. Ultimately this course would reduce their 


 morale and their effectiveness for engagements we must win. 


 And if the military were to distrust its civilian leadership, 


 recruitment would fall off and I fear an end to the all-


 volunteer system would be upon us, requiring a return to a 


 draft, sowing the seeds of riot and discontent that so 


 wracked the country in the '60s.



 We have now restored high morale and pride in the uniform 


 throughout the services. The all-volunteer system is working 


 spectacularly well. Are we willing to forfeit what we have 


 fought so hard to regain?



 In maintaining our progress in strengthening America's 


 military deterrent, we face difficult challenges. For we have 


 entered an era where the dividing lines between peace and war 


 are less clearly drawn, the identity of the foe is much less 


 clear. In World Wars I and II, we not only knew who our 


 enemies were, but we shared a clear sense of why the 


 principles espoused by our enemies were unworthy.



 Since these two wars threatened our very survival as a free 


 nation and the survival of our allies, they were total wars, 


 involving every aspect of our society. All our means of 


 production, all our resources were devoted to winning. Our 


 policies had the unqualified support of the great majority of 


 our people. Indeed, World Wars I and II ended with the 


 unconditional surrender of our enemies. . . . The only 


 acceptable ending when the alternative was the loss of our 


 freedom.



 But in the aftermath of the Second World War, we 


 encountered a more subtle form of warfare warfare in which, 


 more often than not, the face of the enemy was masked. 


 Territorial expansionism could be carried out indirectly by 


 proxy powers, using surrogate forces aided and advised from 


 afar. Some conflicts occurred under the name of ''national 


 liberation,'' but far more frequently ideology or religion 


 provided the spark to the tinder.



 Our adversaries can also take advantage of our open 


 society, and our freedom of speech and opinion to use 


 alarming rhetoric and disinformation to divide and disrupt 


 our unity of purpose. While they would never dare to allow 


 such freedoms to their own people, they are quick to exploit 


 ours by conducting simultaneous military and propaganda 


 campaigns to achieve their ends.



 They realize that if they can divide our national will at 


 home, it will not be necessary to defeat our forces abroad. 


 So by presenting issues in bellicose terms, they aim to 


 intimidate western leaders and citizens, encouraging us to 


 adopt conciliatory positions to their advantage. Meanwhile 


 they remain sheltered from the force of public opinion in 


 their countries, because public opinion there is simply 


 prohibited and does not exist.



 Our freedom presents both a challenge and an opportunity. 


 It is true that until democratic nations have the support of 


 the people, they are inevitably at a disadvantage in a 


 conflict. But when they do have that support they cannot be 


 defeated. For democracies have the power to send a compelling 


 message to friend and foe alike by the vote of their 


 citizens. And the American people have sent such a signal by 


 re-electing a strong Chief Executive. They know that 


 President Reagan is willing to accept the responsibility for 


 his actions and is able to lead us through these complex 


 times by insisting that we regain both our military and our 


 economic strength.



 In today's world where minutes count, such decisive 


 leadership is more important than ever before. Regardless of 


 whether conflicts are limited, or threats are ill defined, we 


 must be capable of quickly determining that the threats and 


 conflicts either do or do not affect the vital interests of 


 the United States and our allies. . . . And then responding 


 appropriately.



 Those threats may not entail an immediate, direct attack on 


 our territory, and our




 response may not necessarily require the immediate or direct 


 defense of our homeland. But when our vital national 


 interests and those of our allies are at stake, we cannot 


 ignore our safety, or forsake our allies.



 At the same time, recent history has proven that we cannot 


 assume unilaterally the role of the world's defender. We have 


 learned that there are limits to how much of our spirit and 


 blood and treasure we can afford to forfeit in meeting our 


 responsibility to keep peace and freedom. So while we may and 


 should offer substantial amounts of economic and military 


 assistance to our allies in their time of need, and help them 


 maintain forces to deter attacks against them usually we 


 cannot substitute our troops or our will for theirs.



 We should only engage our troops if we must do so as a 


 matter of our own vital national interest. We cannot assume 


 for other sovereign nations the responsibility to defend 


 their territory without their strong invitation when our 


 freedom is not threatened.



 On the other hand, there have been recent cases where the 


 United States has seen the need to join forces with other 


 nations to try to preserve the peace by helping with 


 negotiations, and by separating warring parties, and thus 


 enabling those warring nations to withdraw from hostilities 


 safely. In the Middle East, which has been torn by conflict 


 for millennia, we have sent our troops in recent years both 


 to the Sinai and to Lebanon, for just such a peacekeeping 


 mission. But we did not configure or equip those forces for 


 combat they were armed only for their self-defense. Their 


 mission required them to be and to be recognized as 


 peacekeepers. We knew that if conditions deteriorated so they 


 were in danger, or if because of the actions of the warring 


 nations, their peacekeeping mission could not be realized, 


 then it would be necessary either to add sufficiently to the 


 number and arms of our troops in short to equip them for 


 combat, . . . or to withdraw them. And so in Lebanon, when we 


 faced just such a choice, because the warring nations did not 


 enter into withdrawal or peace agreements, the President 


 properly withdrew forces equipped only for peacekeeping.



 In those cases where our national interests require us to 


 commit combat force we must never let there be doubt of our 


 resolution. When it is necessary for our troops to be 


 committed to combat, we must commit them, in sufficient 


 numbers and we must support them, as effectively and 


 resolutely as our strength permits. When we commit our troops 


 to combat we must do so with the sole object of winning.



 Once it is clear our troops are required, because our vital 


 interests are at stake, then we must have the firm national 


 resolve to commit every ounce of strength necessary to win 


 the fight to achieve our objectives. In Grenada we did just 


 that.



 Just as clearly, there are other situations where United 


 States combat forces should not be used. I believe the 


 postwar period has taught us several lessons, and from them I 


 have developed six major tests to be applied when we are 


 weighing the use of U.S. combat forces abroad. Let me now 


 share them with you:



 First, the United States should not commit forces to combat 


 overseas unless the particular engagement or occasion is 


 deemed vital to our national interest or that of our allies. 


 That emphatically does not mean that we should declare 


 beforehand, as we did with Korea in 1950, that a particular 


 area is outside our strategic perimeter.



 Second, if we decide it is necessary to put combat troops 


 into a given situation, we should do so wholeheartedly, and 


 with the clear intention of winning. If we are unwilling to 


 commit the forces or resources necessary to achieve our 


 objectives, we should not commit them at all. Of course if 


 the particular situation requires only limited force to win 


 our objectives, then we should not hesitate to commit forces 


 sized accordingly. When Hitler broke treaties and 


 remilitarized the Rhineland, small combat forces then could 


 perhaps have prevented the holocaust of World War II.



 Third, if we do decide to commit forces to combat overseas, 


 we should have clearly defined political and military 


 objectives. And we should know precisely how our forces can 


 accomplish those clearly defined objectives. And we should 


 have and send the forces needed to do just that. As 


 Clausewitz wrote, ''no one starts a war or rather, no one in 


 his senses ought to do so without first being clear in his 


 mind what he intends to achieve by that war, and how he 


 intends to conduct it.''



 War may be different today than in Clausewitz's time, but 


 the need for well-defined objectives and a consistent 


 strategy is still essential. If we determine that a combat 


 mission has become necessary for our vital national 


 interests, then we must send forces capable to do the job and 


 not assign a combat mission to a force configured for 


 peacekeeping.



 Fourth, the relationship between our objectives and the 


 forces we have committed their size, composition and 


 disposition must be continually reassessed and adjusted if 


 necessary. Conditions and objectives invariably change during 


 the course of a conflict. When they do change, then so must 


 our combat requirements. We must continuously keep as a 


 beacon light before us the basic questions: ''Is this 


 conflict in our national interest?'' ''Does our national 


 interest require us to fight, to use force of arms?'' If the 


 answers are ''yes,'' then we must win. If the answers are 


 ''no,'' then we should not be in combat.



 Fifth, before the U.S. commits combat forces abroad, there 


 must be some reasonable assurance we will have the support of 


 the American people and their elected representatives in 


 Congress. This support cannot be achieved unless we are 


 candid in making clear the threats we face; the support 


 cannot be sustained without continuing and close 


 consultation. We cannot fight a battle with the Congress at 


 home while asking our troops to win a war overseas or, as in 


 the case of Vietnam, in effect asking our troops not to win, 


 but just to be there.



 Finally, the commitment of U.S. forces to combat should be 


 a last resort.



 I believe that these tests can be helpful in deciding 


 whether or not we should commit our troops to combat in the 


 months and years ahead. The point we must all keep uppermost 


 in our minds is that if we ever decide to commit forces to 


 combat, we must support those forces to the fullest extent of 


 our national will for as long as it takes to win. So we must 


 have in mind objectives that are clearly defined and 


 understood and supported by the widest possible number of our 


 citizens. And those objectives must be vital to our survival 


 as a free nation and to the fulfillment of our 


 responsibilities as a world power. We must also be farsighted 


 enough to sense when immediate and strong reactions to 


 apparently small events can prevent lion-like responses that 


 may be required later. We must never forget those 


 isolationists in Europe who shrugged that ''Danzig is not 


 worth a war,'' and ''why should we fight to keep the 


 Rhineland demilitarized?''



 These tests I have just mentioned have been phrased 


 negatively for a purpose they are intended to sound a note of 


 caution that we must observe prior to committing forces to 


 combat overseas. When we ask our military forces to risk 


 their very lives in such situations, a note of caution is not 


 only prudent, it is morally required.



 In many situations we may apply these tests and conclude 


 that a combatant role is not appropriate. Yet no one should 


 interpret what I am saying here today as an abdication of 


 America's responsibilities either to its own citizens or to 


 its allies. Nor should these remarks be misread as a signal 


 that this country, or this Administration, is unwilling to 


 commit forces to combat overseas.



 We have demonstrated in the past that, when our vital 


 interests or those of our allies are threatened, we are ready 


 to use force, and use it decisively, to protect those 


 interests. Let no one entertain any illusions if our vital 


 interests are involved, we are prepared to fight. And we are 


 resolved that if we must fight, we must win.



 So, while these tests are drawn from lessons we have 


 learned from the past, they also can and should be applied to 


 the future. For example, the problems confronting us in 


 Central America today are difficult. The possibility of more 


 extensive Soviet and Soviet-proxy penetration into this 


 hemisphere in months ahead is something we should recognize. 


 If this happens we will clearly need more economic and 


 military assistance and training to help those who want 


 democracy.



 The President will not allow our military forces to creep 


 or be drawn gradually into a combat role in Central America 


 or any other place in the world. And indeed our policy is 


 designed to prevent the need for direct American involvement. 


 This means we will need sustained Congressional support to 


 back and give confidence to our friends in the region.



 I believe that the tests I have enunciated here today can, 


 if applied carefully, avoid the danger of this gradualist 


 incremental approach, which almost always means the use of 


 insufficient force. These tests can help us to avoid being 


 drawn inexorably into an endless morass, where it is not 


 vital to our national interest to fight.



 But policies and principles such as these require decisive 


 leadership in both the Executive and Legislative branches of 


 government and they also require strong and sustained public 


 support. Most of all, these policies require national unity 


 of purpose. I believe the United States now possesses the 


 policies and leadership to gain that public support and 


 unity. And I believe that the future will show we have the 


 strength of character to protect peace with freedom.



 In summary, we should all remember these are the policies 


 indeed the only policies that can preserve for ourselves, our 


 friends, and our posterity, peace with freedom.



 I believe we can continue to deter the Soviet Union and 


 other potential adversaries from pursuing their designs 


 around the world. We can enable our friends in Central 


 America to defeat aggression and gain the breathing room to 


 nurture democratic reforms. We can meet the challenge posed 


 by the unfolding complexity of the 1980s.



 We will then be poised to begin the last decade of this 


 century amid a peace tempered by realism, and secured by 


 firmness and strength. And it will be a peace that will 


 enable all of us ourselves at home, and our friends abroad to 


 achieve a quality of life, both spiritually and materially, 


 far higher than man has even dared to dream.



