---
---

# None
## `a9c37d294b5054a0abaa1d209964ea7d`
`Mr. MENENDEZ â€” 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I rise in strong support of the Levin-
Reed amendment. That is the amendment that, unlike the Iraq Study 
Group, has a date certain for changing and transitioning our mission 
and bringing our troops home. Maybe if the Senate had listened to the 
Iraq Study Group last year when it presented its report and had adopted 
it and moved in that direction, we would not be where we are today. I 
personally believe it is well past time to now suggest that it is 
appropriate to adopt their recommendations when what we need is a date 
certain.

We are here tonight to ask for a vote, not just any vote. We are here 
to ask for a fundamental American principle: a majority vote for 
majority rule. Not a supermajority vote of 60 votes. A majority vote 
for majority rule, the same principle that has stood our country over 
the test of time, the same principle that average Americans fully 
understand, the same principle that would reflect the reality of where 
the American public is as it relates to this critical issue. A majority 
vote for a majority rule. Not just any vote.

We are here tonight because the American people deserve an up-or-down 
vote on this important amendment that will finally bring an end to this 
mismanaged war.

The war in Iraq, in my mind, is the most pressing issue of our day, 
and the fact that the Republican leadership and those who join them 
will not allow the Senate to have a straight up-or-down vote, a simple 
majority vote, speaks of obstructionism and of hiding behind procedural 
roadblocks in order to avoid facing the American people who have called 
for a change of course in Iraq.

Those of us who voted against the war, as I did in the first place, 
against popular opinion of the time, have been vindicated by history. I 
say to my colleagues, history will judge the votes we


cast tomorrow, and I believe those who vote against a simple majority 
rule and changing the course will be judged harshly.

The President has lost the support of the American public and the 
confidence of the global community. The only support for his misguided 
policy in Iraq is a minority, a minority, in the Senate. That is why 
they are afraid of a simple up-or-down vote on this issue because given 
in this body a simple majority vote proposition, a majority of the 
Senate would vote to transition us out of Iraq and bring our men and 
women home. That is why they are afraid of the vote that we ask for.

Unfortunately, some--and I say ''some'' because I know some of our 
Republican colleagues have joined us in the past and will again--some 
of my Republican colleagues seem more interested in protecting the 
President than doing right, in my mind, by our troops. To the 
Republican leadership and those who support them, I say it is time to 
stop filibustering and time to start a vote, a simple majority vote for 
majority rule.

Maybe if more of the sons and daughters, husbands and wives, or 
sisters and brothers of Members of the Senate were in Iraq, some of my 
colleagues would not be so cavalier about filibustering an up-or-down, 
simple majority vote. If our loved ones were in Iraq, who among us 
would be content with the counsels of patience and delay? Who among us 
would be satisfied with another mission accomplished? Who among us 
would be satisfied with ''victory is around the next corner''? Who 
among us would be satisfied with benchmarks of which not one--not one--
has been accomplished, and yet we somehow suggest that is progress 
years later?

After 4 years of a failed policy, it is time to stop hiding behind 
procedural hurdles and allow the Senate to cast a definitive vote about 
our future course in Iraq. A majority vote for majority rule.

The American people are waiting impatiently for the Senate to heed 
their calls and face the facts on the ground. It is time for a 
responsible change of course in Iraq. And that is exactly what the 
amendment on which we want a simple majority vote--let's see how people 
vote, a simple majority vote--does.

The Levin-Reed amendment says our forces should be out of Iraq by 
April 30 of next year, except those needed to protect U.S. personnel, 
to train Iraqi security forces and for counterterrorism activities.

Last week, the House of Representatives passed very similar 
legislation, sending a clear message that the time for change has come. 
The only obstacle left is for this body to act with a simple majority 
vote.

Now the Senate, once again, faces a critical vote on Iraq, and I 
point out, as I did a few days ago when we debated an amendment to take 
care of our troops--we hear all the time about ''support the troops.'' 
Yet we had to have a supermajority vote to simply permit the rotation 
of our troops to be able to have a year back at home for every year 
they served abroad, a proposition that even the Defense Department has 
as its goal. No, we couldn't have a simple majority vote on that issue; 
we had to have a 60-vote threshold. Support the troops?


The only way we could have done that was with bipartisan support, and 
we didn't get it. The only way we can stop this war is with bipartisan 
support. But so long as we keep having these 60-vote thresholds, 
Democrats have 51 votes in this body and that leaves us 9 votes short. 
The American people know that. That is why we want a simple majority 
vote for majority rule.

Despite overwhelming public support, the public is way ahead of this 
institution, the American people are way ahead of this institution, and 
growing support from some of our Republican colleagues, which I 
respect--Democrats do not have the 60 votes needed to stop a filibuster 
in the Senate.

I know that many more of our Republican colleagues have serious 
concerns about the war in Iraq. I have been reading about it. I have 
been reading in the local and national papers of so many of our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle saying: We have grave 
reservations about where the President is continuing to take us. We 
believe we have to have some type of change. I urge them to listen to 
their inner voice. I urge them to find their moral compass. I urge them 
to back their strong words with meaningful votes.

A vote for Levin-Reed, a simple up-or-down vote, is a vote to 
transition out of Iraq, a vote to change the course, a vote to end the 
war.

Robert Kennedy said about the war in Vietnam:




 Past error is no excuse for its own perpetuation. Tragedy 


 is a tool for the living to gain wisdom, not a guide by which 


 to live.


''Past error is no excuse for its own perpetuation.''

He went on to say:




 All men make mistakes, but a good man--


And I would paraphrase in today's terms, a good woman--



 yields when [they] know [their] cost is wrong, and repairs 


 the evil. The only sin--


The only sin--



 is pride.


This is not an issue where we can afford the sin of pride to deviate 
us, to take us into the appropriate course, to change the course in 
Iraq.

The lessons of history are poignant and instructive about today's 
quagmire. Rather than hiding behind a shrinking minority and procedural 
posturing, Republicans should listen to the American people and change 
the course of this failed war policy. They should stand with the 
American people and tell the President, even though we have given him 
opportunities, even though previous efforts of the Senate have given 
him flexibility, he has outright rejected it and, so, yes, there must 
be a date certain, and the message to the President by this body is if 
you are not going to bring our troops home, then we will.

I have heard many of my colleagues claim that what is happening now 
on the Senate floor is nothing more than political theater. The war in 
Iraq is the single greatest issue before the country and before this 
Senate. How many lives, how much money, how much risk to our security 
by being bogged down in Iraq, when we have real challenges in the world 
such as Iran, when we have a reconstituted al-Qaida in Afghanistan, 
that is the real challenge. That is the real challenge, I say to my 
friends. This is not about political theater. If there is political 
theater here, it is the sad, sad plot that the Republican leadership 
has weaved in creating this procedural hurdle to not permit a simple 
majority vote for majority rule.

I heard my distinguished colleague from Connecticut, for whom I have 
enormous respect, lament the proceedings as partisan. I have the 
deepest respect for him, but I couldn't more passionately disagree with 
him. This isn't about partisanship. These are deeply held views of 
principle--principle that moves us to take these extraordinary measures 
so we can get a simple majority vote for majority rule. That is what we 
are simply seeking tonight.

So to the Republican leadership and those who support them, I say it 
is time to stop filibustering and time to permit a simple majority vote 
to allow us to change the course in Iraq.

Today we are living with the consequences of the administration's 
failed policy, and only a minority of the Senate wants to stay that 
failed course. Over 3,600 troops have been killed in Iraq since the 
beginning of the war, including 87 servicemembers with ties to my home 
State of New Jersey. April and May was the deadliest 2-month period of 
the war for U.S. troops, with 230 servicemembers killed.

We have now spent over $450 billion on the war in Iraq, with a burn 
rate of $10 billion a month. Frankly, I never believed the 
administration's estimates that the so-called surge would only cost 
$5.6 billion. We have been misled time and time again, and these new 
numbers only prove once again we have been misled.

Each day we read horrific stories about the violence and tragedy on 
the streets of Iraq. This week officials report that dozens of Shiites 
were massacred by Sunni extremists during an overnight raid in Diyala 
Province. Yesterday, suicide car bombs in Kirkuk killed more than 80 
people and injured some 150 others. It was the deadliest attack the 
city had seen since the beginning of the war. In fact, suicide attacks 
have more than doubled across Iraq from 26 in January to 58 in April.



In terms of reconstruction, measurements we all previously swore 
ourselves to be listening to, oil production in Iraq is still lower 
than it was before the war, and Baghdad is getting less than 6 hours of 
electricity a day, significantly less than before the war.

That is why we must proceed with a vote on the Levin-Reed amendment 
and bring an end to our military involvement in Iraq which has cost our 
country so dearly in human lives and national treasure.

Even all of the military personnel tell us we cannot have a military 
victory in Iraq. When I listen to General Pace say we need the Iraqis 
to love their children more than they hate their neighbors, that is 
probably a powerful truism, but it does not come through the power of 
military might. That is about reconciliation, confidence-building 
measures, revenue sharing, and participation of all Iraqi society in 
the Government. It does not come through the barrel of a gun to have 
the Iraqis love their children more than they hate their enemies.

So to the Republican leadership and those who support them, it is 
time to stop filibustering and time to permit us a simple majority vote 
for majority rule.

Let me take a minute to discuss the administration's recent report on 
benchmarks in Iraq which President Bush is using as a justification for 
the United States to stay in Iraq.

Just as some were misled into the war, I think this report is 
misleading. I wish to make sure everyone understands exactly what it 
says because I have listened to the debate and, boy, has it been 
mischaracterized, as far as I am concerned. I am sure not intentionally 
because people read the document different ways. Let me tell what it 
clearly says to me.

The report did not say that eight of the benchmarks had been met. 
Instead, the report said that satisfactory progress, a very significant 
distinction, has been made on only 8 of 18 benchmarks in Iraq, while 
the rest have not even seen--not even seen--satisfactory progress. In 
simple terms, none of the benchmarks were met.


Let's make it clear: None of the benchmarks were met. And when this 
report came out, President Bush said:




 Those who believe that the battle in Iraq is lost will 


 likely point to the unsatisfactory performance on some of the 


 political benchmarks. Those of us who believe that the battle 


 in Iraq can and must be won see the satisfactory performance 


 on several of the security benchmarks as a cause for 


 optimism.


I want to reiterate to the President the fact that none of the 
benchmarks were actually met. None.

Now, let me be clear. The absolute best version of the story is that 
the Iraqis made some progress on some of the benchmarks. That is it. 
But the fact is, zero out of 18 benchmarks were met, and this is after 
years, and this is after changing the goalposts so that we can continue 
to suggest that we are making progress. If we kept the goalposts where 
they were supposed to be, we would have an even greater rate of 
failure.

So I don't see any cause for optimism for this failed strategy of 
escalation. Frankly, I think the President's comments represent yet 
another example of the administration's delusion and denial.

For years, this administration has refused to face the truth about 
Iraq. Let's take a look at some of the benchmarks the Bush 
administration told us would be met.

We were told by the end of 2006 that a provincial election law would 
be approved and new election laws would be put in place. But that 
benchmark has not been met.

We were told the Iraqis would approve a law for debaathification. But 
that benchmark has not been met. In fact, the Iraqi Parliament is 
barely functioning. It is stuck in gridlock. Even worse, one of the 
Bush administration's best Iraqi allies, Ahmed Chalabi, has been 
leading the charge--this is one of the administration's best allies who 
has been leading the charge--to block the debaathification legislation.

We were told the Iraqis would create a law to help restrain sectarian 
militias. But that benchmark has not been met. In fact, the Iraqi 
Government hasn't disarmed the Shia militias, and the security 
situation on the ground continues to rage out of control. The surge 
hasn't staunched the violence, and civilian casualties were actually 
higher in June than in February when the surge began.

We were told that the Iraqis would establish a law to regulate the 
oil industry and share revenues in Iraqi society. But that benchmark 
has not been met. In fact, the oil law is stuck in parliamentary 
gridlock, and it is unclear whether it actually addresses even the core 
issues.

We were told that by March, this past March, that the Iraqi 
Government was supposed to hold a referendum on constitutional 
amendments necessary for a government of national unity to possibly 
exist. But that benchmark has not been met. In fact, 3 years after the 
United States turned over power to the Iraqi Government, the Iraqis 
still don't have the constitution finished.

The Bush administration seems to think that ''satisfactory progress'' 
has been made on performing a constitutional review committee. But in 
fact this committee has had to keep extending deadlines to get their 
work done, and it is unclear whether they will even meet the next 
deadline at the end of this month.

As I said before, it is time that the administration and the 
President finally face the real facts. And the fact is, by invading 
Iraq, the President took our focus away from the war in Afghanistan--
the birthplace of the Taliban, the home to al-Qaida, the land of Osama 
bin Laden, and the place where the attacks of September 11 were 
planned.

Now, nearly 6 years after those terrible attacks on the United 
States, the most recent National Intelligence Estimate tells us that 
al-Qaida is operating where? In a safe zone along the Afghanistan-
Pakistan border. Let me repeat that. Al-Qaida is operating, according 
to the National Intelligence Estimate, in a safe zone along the 
Afghanistan-Pakistan border.

In fact, according to the New York Times:




 U.S. officials have warned publicly that a deal between the 


 Pakistani government and tribal leaders allowed al-Qaida to 


 plot and train more freely in parts of western Pakistan for 


 the last 10 months.


It is clear that by shifting our efforts to Iraq, we have taken our 
eye off the original threat in Afghanistan. We cannot forget that our 
fight against terrorism started where it should have, in Afghanistan--
an engagement that I supported--where it should have remained. But we 
have not yet been able to end the fight in Afghanistan.

Now, as I listened to the debate here today, some of our Republican 
colleagues are back to the same parroting of the same old refrains--it 
won't work--criticizing Democrats as being weak on defense. It is we 
who have consistently called for finishing the job we started in 
Afghanistan, and bringing Osama bin Laden and his followers to justice, 
and as far as I am concerned, to have him meet his maker. It was a 
Democratic Senator who offered a higher ransom on Osama bin Laden's 
head. It is Democrats, through the supplemental appropriations bill, 
who funded the resources for those men and women whom we supposedly are 
going to stand by so that they would have the plated jackets that they 
needed, and whom we sent into war without having the resources they 
needed, the vehicles to protect their lives as they seek to pursue 
their mission, the opportunity to make sure that a grateful nation says 
we are grateful not just on Memorial Day, marching in a parade, or on 
Veterans Day, going to an observance, which we should, but in how we 
treat those men and women in their injuries, in their disabilities, and 
for those who commit the ultimate sacrifice, in how we take care of 
their survivors. That is what Democrats did when they achieved the 
majority in this institution.


So that old refrain, my friends, that Democrats are weak on defense, 
that dog won't hunt.

I joined a rally earlier tonight outside the Capitol with Iraqi war 
veterans. In my mind, no one--no one--has a greater right to question 
their Government and to say, as they did, that it is time to change the 
course in Iraq and bring their fellow soldiers home, and that is what 
they said tonight. They hold the high ground in any debate.

Afghanistan was the right place to pursue the national security of 
the


United States. It was in Afghanistan that the murderers of September 11 
were located. We had Osama bin Laden pinned down in the mountains of 
Tora Bora. But instead of having a large contingent of the best 
trained, most equipped, most technologically advanced military in the 
world go after him, we outsourced the job to the warlords. We gave them 
money, and they put the money in their pockets and they let bin Laden 
get away.

Many of us have been horrified as we have watched the resurgence of 
the Taliban, the new threats of al-Qaida in Afghanistan, and the 
increasing poppy cultivation. A few years ago, I talked about the 
possibility of the Iraqitization of Afghanistan, and now we see some of 
those fears coming true.

Just last month, Afghan security forces found a new type of 
sophisticated roadside bomb, one that is very similar to that being 
used in Iraq. Afghans, and our troops in Afghanistan, face the daily 
horror of roadside bombs targeting civilians or coalition forces.

The Taliban continues its battle to terrorize the Afghan people. As 
the New York Times article said last week:




 Shootings, beheadings, burnings, and bombings: These are 


 the tools of intimidation used by the Taliban and others to 


 shut down hundreds of Afghanistan's public schools. To take 


 aim at education is to make war on the government.


Afghanistan now produces 92 percent of the world's poppy, and it has 
a record crop again this year. Again, according to the New York Times:




 Not so long ago, we trumpeted Afghanistan as a success, a 


 country freed from tyranny and al-Qaeda. But as the Taliban's 


 grip continues to tighten, threatening Afghanistan's future 


 and the fight against terrorism, Americans and Afghans are 


 frequently asking what went wrong.


My friends, what went wrong is that instead of finishing the mission 
in Afghanistan, the President took us to Iraq. Of course, we remember 
all the reasons why: weapons of mass destruction, uranium from Niger--
this in a State of the Union speech before the entire Congress, none of 
it true. The battle in Afghanistan, the battle against al-Qaida, the 
Taliban, against terrorism is far from over. Yet the United States is 
still held hostage by the President's war in Iraq--a war that we were 
led into based on a false premise, with false promises, with no plan to 
win the peace and no plan to succeed.

The President is fond of evoking Franklin Roosevelt and our noble 
mission in World War II when he talks about Iraq. But he must have 
forgotten that when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, Roosevelt didn't run 
off and invade China. That would have made no sense. Just like our 
going to Iraq made no sense because we dropped the ball in Afghanistan. 
The failures in Iraq, coupled with the reinvigoration of al-Qaida in 
Afghanistan, underscore the fiasco of the Bush administration's 
decision to take its focus off Afghanistan, its disastrous war policy, 
and the consequences of its ''stay the course'' mentality. They took 
their eye off the ball and created a quagmire in Iraq.

We didn't have al-Qaida in Iraq. We now have elements of al-Qaida in 
Iraq, but we did not have al-Qaida in Iraq before we invaded. Now we 
are paying the price in the form of less security and a beefed-up 
terrorist network. Maybe Secretary Chertoff's infamous gut feeling 
about an increased terror threat was caused by knowing that Osama bin 
Laden and his terrorist allies are still out there plotting and 
planning thousands of miles away from Iraq--thousands of miles away 
from Iraq.

Madam President, let me conclude by saying that the President says 
that the only role for Congress is to provide a blank check for his 
failed war policy. He is so wrong. He is so wrong. Time to reread the 
Constitution. This body's responsibility is not to blindly sign a blank 
check to the President for a failed policy. We have a responsibility to 
the American people as fiduciaries both in terms of national treasure 
and lives. Most importantly, we have a responsibility to the men and 
women in uniform to do the right thing and stand up to the President's 
failed policy so that we may give them a mission worthy--worthy--of 
their sacrifice. We should honor the troops who continue to sacrifice 
and shed blood not by being silent, not by being hoarded like sheep, 
not by signing on to a blank check, and not by being complicit in the 
President's failed war.

I have heard some of our colleagues on the other side cry that we are 
fighting for freedom in Iraq, but here in America, here tonight, we 
have a tyranny of a minority in the Senate who want to use the 
procedures of the Senate, in my mind in a way that is totally 
unacceptable, to thwart the will of the majority of the Senate, and, 
more importantly, the majority of the American people.

We want a vote--not just any vote, a simple majority vote for 
majority rule. The amendment before us reflects the reality on the 
ground and the will of the American people. It changes the course in 
Iraq by setting a responsible timetable for our troops to leave. How 
many more lives--how many--I hope we all go home before tomorrow's vote 
and say to ourselves, how many more lives, how many more tens of 
billions of dollars, how much more chaos? We have heard about chaos. 
What will happen, how much more chaos can unfold than that which we see 
unfolding as we have 160,000 troops there?

Years from now, we will come to the same conclusion. Or we can act 
with courage tomorrow in a vote, a simple majority vote, and by doing 
so we will be in a position to meet our national security challenges 
and our national interests. Our brave troops have answered the call of 
duty. Let's now answer the call to do what is right by them.

It is clear to me that the President continues to live in a world 
where the reality in Iraq never collides with his fantasy of what is 
happening there. It is time for the President, and a minority in the 
Senate who support him, to give the American people a chance for a 
majority vote, for a majority rule. The American people have awoken way 
before the Senate, and they want the nightmare to end. The American 
people know it is time to responsibly withdraw from Iraq. The House of 
Representatives voted to do so, and it is time for the Senate to 
finally vote for a responsible withdrawal from Iraq.

And so we close again. It is time for a simple majority vote for 
majority rule.

Madam President, I yield the floor.
