---
---

# MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a9c72a2376ca8223578e93d31c09c2b6`
`Mr. THOMPSON of California — 10 July 2009`

---


Mr. THOMPSON of California. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the 
great work that this chairman does on behalf of veterans. He's a true 
friend and has done so much for so many veterans, and I appreciate 
that.

Mr. Chairman, I just want you to know that I went to college on the 
GI Bill, and I voted for the Post-9/11 GI Bill with my experience in 
the GI Bill and in school and what it did for me in mind. And I did so 
to ensure that all veterans would have the same access to this great 
educational opportunity that I had.

Unfortunately, today in California, California veterans are being 
denied this important chance to get the college education so that they 
can have a better future. According to the Department of Veterans 
Administration, veterans living in California are entitled to zero 
dollars toward their private tuition bill, simply because California 
charges ''fees,'' not ''tuition,'' to attend college.

So because zero ''tuition'' is charged in California, according to 
the VA's tortured logic, zero tuition can be paid to veterans seeking 
to attend private schools in California.

This simple semantic difference means that nearly 5,000 Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans residing in California, veterans who served our 
Nation honorably, are not eligible to receive financial assistance to 
attend the college of their choice. This is unlike every other Iraq and 
Afghanistan veteran in the other 49 States.

My California colleagues and I sent a letter to the VA requesting the 
Department fix this issue administratively. Six weeks later--6 weeks 
later they sent a two-paragraph response denying--denying our request.

This is not fair to our veterans, and Congress should not stand by as 
these brave men and women are denied the benefits they have earned.

I'd now like to yield to my colleague from California (Mr. McKeon).