---
---

# OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD
## `a9e622da6db3fe7e8c87fc03fc4b0791`
`Mrs. DRAKE — 31 January 2007`

---


Mrs. DRAKE. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the gentleman for 
recognizing me tonight, and I would like to apologize for being late 
for your hour. But as I was coming over here today, I was connected by 
my office to a constituent who is serving in Iraq right now. I stood 
out in that hallway just beyond those doors and had a conversation with 
him with much better reception than I usually get on a local call from 
my cell phone. So it was absolutely remarkable, and I just wanted to 
share with you a little bit of what he said.

First of all, he is a contracting officer working with our 
reconstruction teams. I asked him, because we often hear that we are 
not employing Iraqis, that these are all major companies that are doing 
this work. He was quite surprised that I asked that question. He said 
that we have an ''Iraqi First'' program, and all jobs are offered first 
to Iraqi companies and to Iraqis, and if they can't perform that job, 
then other companies from other countries are brought in. They are 
completely screened. He even has an Iraqi who works with him on staff.

I asked if he had a message for us tonight. And the answer was that 
he asked us not to forget them.

I think that brings up the issue you just mentioned, Mr. Price, that 
what just happened today on the House floor. And what we know and the 
Department of Defense is now putting out information that there was a 
$3 billion reduction in the funds that have been appropriated in the 
bills that both of these bodies had passed for 2007. Not for those but 
for the military construction, the bills that the House had passed and 
had not been passed by the Senate.

So we heard on the floor here today that that was not a reduction. It 
was actually an increase. That is not the way that this is being 
viewed, and it is not the impact that it would have on people who are 
serving today.

But Mr. Price and Mr. Speaker, I would say to you that there is no 
one in America, no one in Congress that wants America to be at war. 
There is no President that wants to be a war President. And I have said 
to people if I believed this war we are engaged in was about democracy 
in Iraq or about a people who have fought each other for centuries, I 
would oppose this war, too.

But it is a war about our civilization with an enemy who has vowed to 
kill us and to end our way of life, an enemy who has attacked us and 
who works and plots constantly to attack us again. I truly believe if 
Americans just had the facts that they would make the right decision.

My constituent said it very clearly. He said we cannot let this enemy 
win. And every Iraqi that I have ever talked with, this is something 
America never hears and I think if they did hear it, it would make a 
difference, but from President Talabani on down, whether they are 
Iraqis I have met when I have been on trips there or Iraqis here, they 
all say, ''we are grateful to America for our freedom.'' And we, as 
Americans, never get to hear that.

The real question is what are our options? To let this enemy win and 
to say that they defeated the Russians in Afghanistan and the Americans 
in Iraq? What would that do to us? What would that do to our allies, 
and who would ever believe us again?

And if we were to make that decision and to allow this enemy to win 
and pull our troops out of Iraq before the Iraqis are ready to govern 
and secure themselves, the real question is how will we manage the cost 
of this defeat? How will we manage the murder of all those Iraqis who 
have joined in the freedom of Iraq, the person who was working for my 
constituent right now, those who have served in government, in the 
police, in the Iraqi security forces?

Thank you for yielding. I know you have a lot to talk about, and I 
appreciate the work that you are doing on the floor.