# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `a9e8062003eaefe508a1e80a87740921`
`Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas â€” 16 December 2009`

---


Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise as a Member of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee to support House passage H.R. 3326, making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2010. I urge the Congress to support the President's 
initiatives to terminate or reduce programs that fund narrowly focused 
activities, duplicate existing programs, or that have outlived their 
usefulness, specifically including the Kinetic Energy Interceptor 
program. The Congress is encouraged to adopt proposals made by the 
administration that would better target scarce resources and redirect 
funds to programs with greater potential for results.

I believe in a strong procurement approach that takes advantage of 
the efficiencies associated with an award to a single contractor.

I look forward to working with the Congress to address concerns 
regarding statutory direction to re-organize certain offices within the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), reductions to 
cyber security programs, and cuts to classified activities in ODNI.

The measure provides more funding for equipment depleted by the wars 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, special pay raises, and quality of life 
improvements for the troops and their families. It partially offsets 
these increases by cutting funding from current levels for missile 
defense and futuristic programs like the Future Combat System of new 
vehicles. I support the President in adding more money into the budget 
for our military families. I am disappointed that this bill 
appropriates no funds for the closure of the prison at Guantanamo, and 
blocks the transfer of prisoners. The bill references a detailed plan 
for the disposition of the detainees to be submitted and I look forward 
to seeing this plan. It also provides a 3.4% pay increase for military 
personnel, and a 2% pay raise for civilian federal employees which is 
vital in maintaining the morale of the


troops and the federal law enforcement personnel that help secure 
America.

Finally, this bill prohibits the use of funds in the bill to 
establish permanent military bases in Iraq or U.S. control of Iraqi oil 
resources.

The bill also continues the prohibition on the use of funds provided 
for the Iraq Security Forces for the construction of facilities for the 
Iraqi government.

I support all provisions that require the Defense secretary to report 
to Congress on troop drawdown status and goals relating to the 
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq by the end of 2011. The report, 
which is due 90 days after enactment and every 90 days thereafter, must 
include the following:

A detailed, month-by-month description of the transition of U.S. 
military forces and equipment out of Iraq;

A detailed, month-by-month description of the transition of U.S. 
contractors out of Iraq; and

How the Iraqi government is assuming the responsibility for 
reconciliation initiatives as the U.S. role transitions.

It is absolutely imperative that the U.S. Congress and the President 
agree on an eventual drawdown and removal of our forces from Iraq.

I am proud of the support to the military and their children that the 
FY 2010 Defense Appropriations bill provides. Congress approved a 3.4 
percent increase in military pay, 0.5 percent above the Department of 
Defense request. This bill includes $29.2 billion for medical care for 
the Defense Health Program, which provides medical care for members of 
the armed services and their families. Included in the health care 
funding are $372 million for military medical research and $120 million 
for Traumatic Brain Injury and Psychological Health Research.

The FY10 Defense Appropriations bill included $472.4 million for 
Family Advocacy programs including Family Support and Yellow Ribbon. 
These programs include quality child care, job training for spouses, 
and an expansion of counseling services. For the families that 
experience the daily heartache of having a loved one far away, these 
programs reach out and provide support. I want to thank Chairman Murtha 
for his untiring support of our troops and their families.

I want to stress that none of these funds will go toward the 
administration's plan to send 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan, 
and I will continue to scrutinize the economic, military and social 
impacts of the administration's request. I am concerned about the cost 
of sending additional troops, as well as the effect that a larger 
presence in Afghanistan will have on troop morale. The White House 
estimates that it will cost $1 million per year for each additional 
soldier deployed, and I believe that $30 billion would be better spent 
on developing new jobs, and fixing our broken healthcare system, as 
well as in using ''smart power'' to peacefully work on the Afghan 
cease-fire.


The cost and the long-term commitment were given renewed significance 
on Tuesday, December 9, 2009 when Afghan President Hamid Karzai said, 
as reported in the New York Times, that ''Afghanistan would not be able 
to pay for its own security until at least 2024.'' Secretary Robert 
Gates echoed that sentiment when he said that ''For another 15 to 20 
years, Afghanistan will not be able to sustain a force of that nature 
and capacity with its own resources.'' If our strategy is to use $50 
billion to build up Afghanistan's police and military forces as well as 
a decades-long commitment, I am not sure that the American people will 
support such an effort.

Yet, no matter your opinion on their role in conflict, it is 
important that our troops are prepared for the current combat 
environment. As such, the Defense appropriations bill includes $154 
billion to increase the readiness of our armed forces, helping to 
refocus our military away from the Cold-War era type of conflict.

A bill of this magnitude must include safeguards against waste, 
abuse, and fraud. Not only does this bill increase the resources at the 
disposal of the Department of Defense (DOD) Inspector General, it also 
enhances the focus on taking inherently governmental functions out of 
the hands of contractors.

Finally, it will be a great celebration in Houston with the 
establishment of the Riverside General Hospital Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder Center with a $1 million grant. Additionally, I have received 
over $4 million in green job, technology, and medical research funding. 
These dollars will work for the 18th Congressional District and the 
American people.