# None
## `a9eeacb1b5d2874479aa38cd8fbade11`
`Mr. McCONNELL â€” 27 February 2008`

---


Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, in a few minutes we will have a 
procedural vote on another proposal by the junior Senator from 
Wisconsin, a bill that would direct the administration to produce in 60 
days a new global strategy for defeating al-Qaida. But first, a word 
about the first Feingold bill which dictates withdrawal.

Last year's bold decision to launch a counterinsurgency plan under 
General Petraeus has renewed our hopes for a unified Iraq to govern, 
defend, and sustain itself as an ally in the war on terror. Our men and 
women in uniform have protected the Iraqi people, scattered al-Qaida, 
deterred militias, and helped to create an environment that has led to 
progress not only at the tactical level but in government and in 
reconciliation as well. We owe them all a great debt.

In September, General Petraeus outlined his plan for bringing these 
men and women back after a job well done and for transitioning our 
mission to one of partnership and overwatch. I might say 
parenthetically, I was just with General Petraeus's wife a few moments 
ago, who is at a reception here in the Capitol complex for people from 
the Fort Campbell area. Earlier in General Petraeus's career, he was 
the commander of the 101st Division of the storied Screaming Eagles who 
have been at the tip of the spear in both Afghanistan and Iraq over the 
last 4 years. General Petraeus has had three different assignments in 
Iraq. We are all thoroughly familiar with his current assignment, but 
his wife is a good soldier indeed as well, and I had an opportunity a 
few moments ago to thank her again not only for his contribution but 
for her sacrifice as well.

This reduction in forces that General Petraeus's mission has made 
possible has already begun, and the Iraqi people are prepared for 
provincial elections in October. Due to the success of the Petraeus 
plan, Sunnis now serving as Sons of Iraq and defending their own Nation 
will now have a real stake in those elections. When General Petraeus 
and Ambassador Crocker return this April, we should listen to their 
recommendations to ensure that the hard-earned gains of the surge are 
maintained.

But one thing is already clear from the successes we have recently 
seen. Congress needs to stop considering this war in fits and starts 
and through piecemeal debates. We need to understand that our interests 
in the Persian Gulf and Iraq are long-standing and will not vanish 
because we have a Presidential election in November. We can't wish the 
dangers away.

This leads me to the second Feingold measure calling for a new 
strategy in defeating al-Qaida. We deal with global strategies and 
long-range plans through the national security strategy, the national 
military strategy, the Quadrennial Defense Review, and through the 
annual defense legislation. If the Senator from Wisconsin wanted to 
know how our global strategy to combat al-Qaida fits into the context 
of these reports and reviews, he might have asked the administration to 
produce such a document in the annual Defense Authorization Act. Also, 
I might suggest that one sure way of strengthening our fight against 
al-Qaida and other terrorists would be for the Democratic leadership 
over in the House of Representatives to stop blocking a vote on the 
bipartisan, Senate-passed FISA bill. We know there is a bipartisan 
majority in the House of Representatives to pass the same bill that 
passed the Senate by a large bipartisan majority. A good way to 
strengthen our efforts against al-Qaida would be to take up and pass 
that bill.

It would be irresponsible to cut off funds for troops in the field. 
We will not pass a bill that does so. But we welcome debate on the al-
Qaida report because we are ready to provide all of the resources 
required to defeat al-Qaida, to include quick passage of the Defense 
appropriations supplemental, full funding of the 2009 Defense 
Appropriations Act, and passage of a FISA bill that will allow our 
intelligence community to continue to hunt terrorists.

We must also consider the full cost of our Nation's global 
commitments and our need to modernize our ground, air, and naval 
forces. We should also give the administration ample time to complete 
this study which should serve as a sound guidance for the incoming 
administration.

So we welcome a debate on how to best hunt al-Qaida and defend the 
Nation, and if we are to get on this bill, we will be debating 
amendments that make this report more meaningful.

I yield the floor.