---
---

# PRESERVING UNITED STATES ATTORNEY INDEPENDENCE ACT OF 2007
## `a9fbe526a442b215ef2339da89b0b690`
`Mr. DURBIN — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. In addition to these fallen heroes, thousands of our 
troops have come home with serious injuries, disabilities--blindness, 
amputations, and the signature injury of this war, traumatic brain 
injury. We have been outraged in recent weeks to read about the shabby 
way some of these wounded veterans have been treated.

I went out today and I asked to finally see this infamous Building 
18, which is about a block away from Walter Reed Hospital. It is a 
rundown, old motel that our military took over. Under Secretary 
Rumsfeld, they had this passion to privatize--taking the men and women 
who were responsible for maintaining this building and removing them 
and bringing in a private contractor. That is when the worst happened. 
The men and women who were involved in the private contract clearly did 
not do the job.

As a result, the Washington Post ran this well-publicized series 
about mold and mice droppings and evidence of bugs and the general 
rundown condition of Building 18--an outpatient facility for our 
soldiers at Walter Reed Hospital.

Every day, we learn--as I have learned back in Illinois--of wounded 
soldiers who have been denied proper medical care, housed in 
substandard and even deplorable living conditions, and forced to fight 
a massive bureaucracy and endure long waits for decisions about 
disability compensation. Meanwhile, their families suffer and many of 
the wounded soldiers go without medical care.


Sadly, these problems are not unique to Walter Reed, nor are they new 
to many of the top Pentagon officials.

Mark Benjamin is a reporter who has written some of the 
groundbreaking stories on the veterans health care crisis. He wrote an 
article in 2003, 4 years ago, about wounded National Guard soldiers 
being housed in sweltering cinder-block buildings at Fort Stewart in 
Georgia.

The Pentagon pledged then, in 2003, that no wounded soldier would be 
subjected to that shabby treatment again. That was 4 years ago. Yet 2 
years later, in 2005, Jeff Romig, a physician's assistant from 
Danville, IL, and a captain in the Army National Guard, found himself 
living in similar conditions at a military base in Indiana after he 
ruptured his Achilles tendon during training.

Captain Romig had a cast on up to his hip following surgery, but he 
had to walk a half a mile on crutches every day to eat lunch. When it 
rained, mud washed into the cinder-block barracks and coated the cement 
floors where he was asked to live. His foot became infected. He has had 
five surgeries on it. He still has a hole in the back of his foot and 
his foot drops. He needs a brace to walk properly.

When he was released from active duty, the Army told Captain Romig 
the VA would pay for the brace. But then the Veterans' Administration 
refused. They told Captain Romig he was not entitled to VA health care 
until he received a disability rating, which takes 2 years. In the 
meantime, he would have to pay the bills himself or go without the 
brace and any other VA health care.

Now, who is Captain Romig? He happens to be a soldier who has served 
23 years in the military--12 in the regular Army and 11 in the National 
Guard. He was one of the lucky ones, though. Through his employer he 
had private health coverage. They paid for the brace and his medical 
care when the VA and our Government failed him.

He worries about other wounded veterans. In an e-mail he sent me 
recently, he said:




 Who is going to help pay the bills for a soldier's family 


 if he or she is disabled? The mortgage companies won't wait 


 two years to receive their payment and the VA made it 


 perfectly clear to me that if I didn't pay my bill, they 


 would send me to [a collection agency]; they don't want to 


 wait two years for payment, either. So why should a soldier 


 be expected to wait two years for care and financial 


 assistance?


There is another story I would like to share. It is about SGT Garrett 
Anderson of Champaign, IL. He and his wife Sam share a similar worry. 
He is 30 years old. She is 29. They have a 6-month-old daughter. On 
Wednesday, they will celebrate their second wedding anniversary.

Three months after they were married, he went to Iraq with the 
Illinois National Guard. Four months after that, an IED exploded next 
to his armored humvee in Baghdad.

The blast tore off Sergeant Anderson's right arm below the elbow, 
shattered his jaw, severed part of his tongue, took away much of his 
hearing, and punctured his body with shrapnel.

He spent 7 months at Walter Reed, and he praises the care that was 
given him there recently in Ward 57. He said the amputee ward could not 
have treated him better. I have heard the same thing. There are many 
outstanding individuals at Walter Reed who should not be lumped into 
the critical articles about Building 18. These are men and women, 
medical professionals, who are literally working miracles every day on 
these soldiers. So criticizing the situation at Walter Reed should not 
bring them in as well. Many of them are extraordinary and receive the 
highest praise from men and women who are treated there.



But after the treatment at Walter Reed for Sergeant Anderson, the 
months of outpatient care that followed were filled with ''massive 
paperwork and red tape.'' After 3 years in the Army and 4 in the 
National Guard, Garrett Anderson finally retired from the military last 
June.

Last week, 9 months later, he received his disability rating from the 
VA. You will recall the injuries I told you he sustained. His 
disability rating, after waiting, 90 percent. His wife Sam said the VA 
ruled that some of her husbands's shrapnel wounds were not service 
related because Walter Reed had not taken the time to document each and 
every one of them.

The Andersons are appealing the rating. They are hoping for a 100-
percent disability rating, which would make Sergeant Anderson eligible 
for better health coverage and other benefits. Do you know how long 
that appeal will take? Two years--2 more years for Sergeant Anderson to 
wait to determine whether the VA is going to rate him as 100 percent 
disabled.

In the meantime, he is looking for a civilian doctor with experience 
treating amputees, and doing without the speech therapy and PTSD 
counseling he needs.

He is also going to college. His wife is trying to finish law school. 
They are both speaking out to try to change the system. Here is what 
his wife Sam says:




 Each obstacle renews our desire to fix the system so that 


 future soldiers can serve proudly and take comfort knowing 


 that their country will take care of them just as they took 


 care of their country.


I applaud Defense Secretary Gates for the decisive steps he has taken 
to fix the problems at Walter Reed and to determine how widespread they 
are. But firing a few people--even a few generals--is not enough. The 
stories about wounded soldiers being mistreated raise serious questions 
about our planning for this war, about the capacity of the Pentagon and 
the VA to deal with the long-term health needs of our soldiers--post-
traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, amputations. Ten 
years ago, the VA could never have anticipated all these challenges. 
Today they face them.

Every year since the war in Iraq began, the President has failed to 
request adequate funding for the VA. The President's proposed budget 
for next year would enable the VA to serve 54,000 Iraq and Afghanistan 
veterans--54,000. It sounds like a large number. It is. But it is 
50,000 patients short of the VA's expected demand.

The President's budget provides for half of what is needed. 
Unbelievably, it would cut funding for defense health facilities such 
as Walter Reed by 13 percent. I think about that $12 billion in cash--
$12 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars--that was flown into Iraq and 
cannot be accounted for, sent to Mr. Bremer and his Coalition 
Provisional Authority. How far would that money go to help the VA?

Here is another great statistic. In late January, the Army Times 
reported that in the last few years, the number of soldiers approved 
for permanent disability retirement decreased by more than two-thirds--
from 642 in 2001, to 209 in 2005. Think about that: a two-thirds drop 
in permanent disability ratings in the midst of a war? It does not make 
sense.

With the horrific wounds our troops are suffering--and thanks to the 
outstanding care they receive in the field--surviving, how can 
permanent disability rates be declining? Declining disability rates are 
part of the pattern of failing to plan properly for this war.


I know Dr. David Chu, who is an economist and mathematician by 
training, and he holds one of the top positions at the Pentagon. He is 
the Under Secretary for Defense for Personnel and Readiness. He is one 
of the two top Pentagon officials responsible for making sure that 
returning vets receive prompt outpatient care and fair compensation.

In January 2005, Dr. Chu told the Wall Street Journal that America 
was spending too much on benefits for soldiers and veterans. He said:




 The amounts have gotten to the point where they are 


 hurtful. They are taking away from the Nation's ability to 


 defend itself.


The truth is, health care and disability benefits for wounded 
soldiers are not threats to our national security; they are an 
essential part of the cost of war and part of our national security. 
Somehow the Pentagon has to come to realize this.

I want to tell my colleagues one more story and then turn the floor 
over to my colleague from Arkansas. This is about an Illinois soldier, 
Army 1LT Terry Peterson of Warrenville, IL. I first met Lieutenant 
Peterson in January 2006 when he was recuperating at Walter Reed. I 
invited him to come to the President's State of the Union Address last 
year as my guest. He was 23 years old. He is a graduate of the Citadel. 
From the time he was a little boy, he wanted to be a soldier.

On December 8, 2005, 3 weeks after he arrived in Iraq, an IED ripped 
apart a humvee in which he was riding in Baghdad. The blast killed one 
soldier in the humvee and nearly killed Lieutenant Peterson. It 
shattered his right foot, ripped three knuckles off his right hand, and 
severed an artery in his left arm. He has had 20 surgeries so far. If 
he is lucky, he will only need two more surgeries. He has five screws 
in his foot, and he deals with pain all the time. He can't stand for 
more than 30 minutes, and it will take a miracle for him to ever be 
able to run again.

Lieutenant Peterson received outpatient care at Walter Reed for 9 
months. Someone from home was always with him--usually his mother, his 
girlfriend, or his sister--trying to cut through the redtape, trying to 
make sure he received the very best care. His mom spent $8,000 flying 
back and forth between Illinois and Washington to be with her son. 
Lieutenant Peterson spent $10,000 out of pocket to rent hotel rooms 
near Walter Reed for 6 months because there was no room for him in the 
infamous Building 18. He has yet to be reimbursed for that expenditure. 
The Army says he still needs to turn in more paperwork.

Terry Peterson suffers from PTSD. He didn't see a psychiatrist until 
months after his injury, and then only because his father insisted. 
When he went back for a follow-up appointment a month later, they told 
him his records had been lost.

Today Lieutenant Peterson is back at Fort Stewart in Georgia waiting 
to finish his surgeries and get his disability rating to leave the 
Army. He says:




 It took me a long time to stop making excuses for the 


 system.


Some days he says he feels like he was abandoned by the Army. But he 
is determined to try to fix this system so other soldiers won't go 
through the same thing.

Before the State of the Union Address, some 15 months ago, Terry and 
I met with some reporters. Terry said: I don't know if I ought to say 
this, but I am a conservative and a Republican. He said:




 What I'm really looking forward to is just hearing that the 


 President is behind us.


He said he didn't want the sacrifices that he and other soldiers had 
made to be for nothing.

As we enter the fifth year of this war, America needs to demonstrate 
to all our troops and families that we are behind them, and that takes 
more than words. It requires that we stand with our soldiers on the 
battlefield and when they come home wounded, for as long as they need 
our help.

I yield the floor.
















 Exhibit 1



Operation Iraqi Freedom Casualties Listed in Chronological Order



 Marine Corporal Brian Kennedy, 25, of Glenview, IL.


 Marine Captain Ryan Anthony Beaupre, 30, of St. Anne, IL.


 Marine Private Jonathan L. Gifford, 30, of Decatur, IL.


 Marine Corporal Evan James, 20, La Harpe, IL.


 Army Specialist Brandon Rowe, 20, of Roscoe, IL.


 Army Reserve Specialist Rachael Lacy, 22, of Lynwood, IL.


 Marine First Sergeant Edward Smith, 38, of Chicago, IL.


 Army Staff Sergeant Lincoln Hollinsaid, 27, of Malden, IL.


 Marine Lance Corporal Jakub Henryk Kowalik, 21, of 




 Schaumburg, IL.


 Marine Lance Corporal Nicholas Brian Kleiboeker, 19, of Iuka, 