---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `aa04c24fffc261f7b1e00ae5a1cff75d`
`Mr. OBEY â€” 19 July 2007`

---


Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I just would like to make a couple of short 
observations. We are told by this gentleman, and we have been told, and 
we have been told, and we have been told and we have been told for 3 
days that somehow it is this bill which is responsible for the 
outrageous fiscal mess facing the country. I just want to say one 
thing: Yes, this bill spends $10 billion more on our kids, on our 
workers, on our obligation to provide access to health care to people 
who don't have it, than the President does. I plead fully double 
guilty. I would do twice as much if I could. I would do three times as 
much if I could because the country needs it.

This is the bill that makes the investments that will make our 
country stronger economically, educationally and socially not just 
today but for the next 10 years. That's what this bill is about.

We have got a 2 percent difference between us and the President in 
terms of what we are trying to spend in this bill versus what he thinks 
we ought to spend. I have just told you where we have put it in the 
right places. Where does the President want to put money? The President 
wants to spend five times as much as the difference that we have with 
him on this bill, he wants to spend five times as much giving tax cuts 
to people who make more than a million bucks a year. He is going to 
give 57 billion bucks to people in this country who make over a million 
bucks a year. We think that money, a portion of it, is better spent on 
kids who need it and on sick people who need it. And we make no apology 
for it.

The other thing I would simply say is that the other place that the 
President wants to spend it, he wants to spend 60 times as much as that 
$10 billion on that stupid war in Iraq, the worst foreign policy 
blunder in the history of the Republic.

So we plead fully guilty to having a meaningful 2 percent difference 
between the President and us. We plead fully guilty, and I wish it were 
more.

