---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `aa0d26d941eccdb8c813fc31d139c9a9`
`Mr. SARBANES — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. SARBANES. Madam Speaker, the resolution we are debating today is 
simple and direct. It declares strong support for our troops on the 
ground in Iraq and opposition to the President's decision to send an 
additional 21,000 men and women into harm's way. I wholeheartedly 
endorse the resolution and pray that the President will heed its call.



Most agree now that it was a mistake to invade Iraq. Hearings in the 
Senate and the House are stripping away the last thin veneers of 
justification for that fateful decision. They are offering compelling 
evidence that the administration sacrificed wisdom, judgment, and 
conscience in favor of shock and awe.

Many of us sense a similar impulse at work in this administration's 
dealings with Iran. Let us serve notice, this Congress will not allow 
the administration to pursue yet another ill-fated mission. Madam 
Speaker, bringing our troops home from Iraq is no longer a whispered 
prayer; it is now the clarion call of the American people.

One year ago those proposing a new direction in Iraq were labeled as 
unpatriotic and marginalized in the national discourse. But we have 
come a long way. Elections do matter. On November 7, the people in my 
district in Maryland and across the Nation sent a strong message.

The next day Secretary Rumsfeld resigned. Shortly thereafter the Iraq 
Study Group issued its report sharply criticizing the war. And in the 
next few days the United States House of Representatives will pass this 
resolution signaling stiff opposition to the administration's proposal 
for a troop surge in Iraq.

To those patriotic Americans who have been relentless in their call 
for an end to the war, know this: collective voice has been heard. In 
my home State of Maryland, nearly 400 men and woman have died or been 
wounded in Iraq.

Two days ago, one of my constituents reminded me that the war is no 
longer being measured in time, but in lives. To the families who have 
sacrificed so much and who have suffered the ultimate loss, do not fear 
for a moment that a change in our policy in Iraq, that the effort to 
stop the escalation and begin drawing down our troops in any way 
dilutes the value this country places on the service of your loved 
ones.

History will treat harshly those policymakers at the highest levels 
who let ideology trump sound and informed judgment. It will fairly 
criticize politicians who have exploited this war for partisan gain. 
But it will reserve only pride and lasting gratitude for the sacrifice 
of our men and women in uniform amidst this sad tale of bungled 
intelligence and ill-advised policy. They alone are untarnished.

Madam Speaker, I have never been to the war. Never kissed my wife and 
children goodbye, wondering whether I will ever see them again. Far 
from the harsh reality in Iraq, I am blessed with the sweet ebb and 
flow of life's daily routines.

But like many Americans who witness our soldiers dutifully pushing 
forward every day under impossible circumstances, I am ill at ease. I 
know that the current policy in Iraq will only lead to more pain for 
many families and for our country.

Madam Speaker, the American people are tired, they are tired of 
rhetoric, they are tired of promises to put politics and partisanship 
aside when all they see is bickering and recrimination. Let's give them 
hope. Let's send a powerful message contained in this resolution, but 
let's not stop there.

Let all of us, the President, the House, the Senate, have the decency 
and dignity of purpose to put differences aside and work every day, 
beginning this day, to bring our troops home to their families, to 
their communities, and to a Nation that stands humbled by their 
sacrifice