---
---

# DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `aa1670de1fe353e3d8452c047edbc1d3`
`Mr. ISRAEL — 22 May 2008`

---


Mr. ISRAEL. Mr. Chairman, this amendment solves a critical deficiency 
in our warfighting and our peacekeeping capabilities by strengthening 
the Arab language capabilities in the Department of Defense and 
Department of State. There are literally hundreds of Iraqis in the 
United States who supported our military units as translators in Iraq. 
They risked their lives, they risked their families' lives. They went 
on patrol in very dangerous areas, told our servicemembers what the 
enemy was saying, what was being said.

Then they came here to escape persecution, and when they got here, 
they wanted to continue providing those critical linguistic abilities 
and they were told there was no place for them to work. Many of them 
today are working in Safeways and working in Home Depots and working in 
restaurants, instead of providing the linguistic capabilities that we 
desperately need in the military theater.

Study after study after study, including the Quadrennial Defense 
Review, points to the critical deficiency we have in understanding the 
cultures and languages that we are fighting in. Our Nation now has 
hundreds of people who grew up in those cultures, speak those 
languages, pass background checks, risk their lives, and what do we do, 
even though we need their skills? We let them bag groceries at a 
Safeway. It doesn't make any sense.

This amendment would help solve that problem by instructing DOD and 
the Department of State to create a temporary program that would offer 
employment as translators, interpreters, or culture awareness 
instructors in Iraq, who meet certain rigid criteria. One, they must be 
here legally. Two, they must have worked for at least the last 12 
months as translators in Iraq since 2003 for our troops or for another 
U.S. Government agency.

This amendment is endorsed by the Episcopal Church, Veterans for 
Common Sense, the International Rescue Committee, Church World Service, 
which works very hard on it, and many additional groups.



I would like to read into the Record, Mr. Chairman, a statement by 
Major Andrew Morton, U.S. Army Active Service, a former Director of 
Strategic Communications for Multinational Forces in Iraq, where he 
says, ''Representative's Israel's proposed amendment is a critically 
needed program to assist these many Iraqis who have put themselves and 
their families in harm's way to assist our joint operations in Iraq.''

This is a very important amendment in helping those who were 
protecting us, and I urge its passage.

I reserve the balance of my time.