---
---

# RECOGNIZING THE SADLOWSKI FAMILY
## `aa22ba007d4466f50fdde7120477a745`
`Mr. BILIRAKIS — 10 March 2010`

---


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize George and 
Tina Sadlowski, who have two sons as well as a daughter-in-law who 
currently serve in the United States Army. Mr. and Mrs. Sadlowski have 
founded Operation Treasures for Troops, which provides food and other 
essential items to military personnel who are stationed overseas.

The Sadlowskis began Operation Treasures for Troops during their 
oldest son's first deployment in order to provide their son with food 
and other items that are not available during their deployments. 
Currently, the Sadlowskis collect items for the troops through their 
church, the North Lake Family Church, in Tarpon Springs, Florida, and 
are in the process of recruiting stores to donate items, which would 
offset the costs of their organization.

The Sadlowski's oldest son, Eric Sadlowski, is currently serving in 
Afghanistan after having previously served twice in Iraq. Andrew 
Sadlowski, their middle son, recently joined the military and is 
awaiting his first deployment. Andrew's wife, Nicole, is currently 
preparing to be deployed to Afghanistan. Because both are currently 
serving in the military, Andrew and Nicole have lived apart since they 
were married. Additionally, the Sadlowski's youngest son, Patrick, also 
desires to serve in the military.

The Sadlowskis currently mail about 100 boxes to the troops per year, 
financing the postal and shipping costs themselves. H.R. 707, the Home 
Front to Heroes Postal Benefits Act, which I have cosponsored, would 
provide monthly vouchers so those at home could mail packages and 
correspondence to deployed soldiers without charge. This would allow 
more funding to be spent on items for the troops instead of on postal 
costs.

Madam Speaker, I strongly commend the Sadlowski family for their 
extraordinary military service and for the selfless work that Mr. and 
Mrs. Sadlowski do to serve the troops overseas. I sincerely thank Eric, 
Andrew, and Nicole for their service for our country and the many 
sacrifices they make as they serve overseas. My most heartfelt thanks 
go to George and Tina as they voluntarily organize and send boxes to 
our troops overseas. The Sadlowski family has shown how much they care 
about our nation as each of them willingly serves our country, both by 
their military service and their service for our troops.
