---
---

# HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL JOHN A. BRADLEY ON THE OCCASION OF HIS  RETIREMENT
## `aa454b6f8fd7ccaa594275b10bf110d2`
`Mr. COOPER — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. COOPER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to salute a man who has 
touched the lives of so many Tennesseans, as well as many the world, 
through his long and distinguished military career, culminating as 
Chief of the Air Force Reserve and commander for the Air Force Reserve 
Command.

General John A. Bradley was commissioned in 1967 after completing the 
Air Force ROTC program as a distinguished graduate at the University of 
Tennessee at Knoxville.

As a fighter pilot, General Bradley flew 337 combat missions in 
Vietnam. He commanded a fighter training squadron, fighter group and 
wing and Reserve numbered air force. General Bradley also served as the 
Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for Reserve 
Matters. He has over 7,000 flying hours in the T-38, A-37, A-10, F-4 
and F-16.

General Bradley's noteworthy service has been recognized for his 
service with numerous devices on medals for the Distinguished Service 
Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Distinguished 
Flying Cross, Combat Readiness Medal, Vietnam Service


Medal, Southwest Asia Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal, Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross, Republic of Vietnam 
Campaign Medal, and Kuwait Liberation Medal, Government of Kuwait.

General Bradley's superior leadership propelled the Air Force Reserve 
Command to meet or exceed every mission requirement while effectively 
managing limited resources in an ever-changing, post-September-11 
environment. His ''One Air Force, Same Fight . . . an Unrivaled 
Wingman'' Vision provided a roadmap for the Air Force Reserve Command 
to execute over 39 Total Force Integration and Base Realignment and 
Closure changes affecting 75 percent of its units.

He supported the Combatant Commands with over 27,000 volunteer and 
mobilized reservists. He proactively led the Command's steadfast 
support of Operations Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom, and Iraqi Freedom 
as well as the rapid response to the 2005 hurricane strikes. As the Air 
Force lead for the Air Force Smart Operations 21 Caring for People 
process, he made recommendations to improve programs essential to the 
health and welfare of Airmen.

General Bradley has retired home to Nashville, TN. On behalf of a 
grateful Nation, I thank General Bradley, his wife Jan and their 
daughter Leigh Ann for their commitment and sacrifices made throughout 
this distinguished military career. Congratulations on completing an 
outstanding and successful career.
