# None
## `aa50ddc20f4c7d56c86c27d2c5899739`
`Mr. ALLEN — 25 July 2007`

---


Mr. ALLEN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2929, the Lee-Allen 
bill to ban permanent bases in Iraq.

Regardless of one's position on U.S. military operations, we can all 
agree on the need for the Iraqi Government to succeed. The perception 
that the United States plans a permanent presence in Iraq fuels the 
resentment against our troops and complicates the path towards 
political reconciliation in Iraq. Too many Iraqis believe that we 
intend to stay in their country indefinitely.

A clear statement by Congress, not part of a larger bill, that we do 
not intend a long-term or permanent military presence in Iraq is 
necessary to send a strong signal to the Iraqi people and to the world. 
It supports our goal of handing over responsibility for security and 
public safety to Iraqi forces.

Passage last year of prohibitions on permanent bases in Iraq based on 
legislation I wrote with the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Lee) 
marked perhaps the first time Congress legislated to change the 
direction of our Iraq policy. In total, three ''no permanent base'' 
provisions have been enacted. H.R. 2929 make these permanent. Twice the 
House has rejected amendments to weaken these provisions.

Recent statements by administration officials, however, are 
troubling. The White House Press Secretary said recently the President 
envisions a United States military presence in Iraq ''as we have in 
South Korea,'' where American troops have been based for more than 50 
years. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates made similar comments.

H.R. 2929 reaffirms that the United States has a clear and consistent 
policy against a permanent U.S. military presence in Iraq. I urge its 
adoption.