---
---

# PROVIDING FOR REDEPLOYMENT OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS FROM IRAQ
## `aa54a6114bdb7f5819147b497e1f7d1e`
`Mr. HUNTER — 10 May 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my friend from California 
for giving me some time.

You know, in Iraq it is tough, it is difficult, it is dusty and it is 
dangerous; but we are following the same pattern that we followed for 
the last 60 years in bringing freedom to other parts of the world. It 
is not a smooth road.

First, you stand up a free government. We have done that. It is an 
inept


government. It bumbles along, as most new governments do. But it is a 
free government, and it represents the people.

The second thing that you do is stand up a military capable of 
protecting that free government.

Thirdly, the Americans leave, because we don't covet anything that 
another country has.

We are right now in the second phase of standing up a military 
capable of protecting this government. My good friend who just spoke 
talked about the difficulty of standing up the Iraqi military. I know a 
couple of years ago in the first battle of Fallujah when we rushed 
green Iraqi troops to that battle and we thought they were going to 
help the United States Marines, the next day they were gone. They 
didn't show up for roll call. But this time when you go out there and 
you are in Fallujah and Ramadi, the Iraqi military is standing and 
fighting.

We sat there about a month ago with the Sunni leaders of the national 
police in Ramadi and Fallujah, and they sat there side-by-side with the 
Shiite leaders of the Iraqi Army and talked about how they are working 
together, this time to push back against al Qaeda, whose rough edge has 
made enemies in the Anbar province.

Now, we got 129 battalions in the Iraqi Army, and, personally, I 
think that the standup of the Iraqi Army and the reliability of the 
Iraqi Army is the key to America's success in Iraq and our successful 
turnover of the security burden.

We have got to make sure that every one of those 129 Iraqi battalions 
moves into an operation where they do two or three months in a military 
operation where they have to work out, exercise their logistic chain, 
their chain of command, the commander has got to coordinate with the 
guy on the right and the guy on the left. At that time they can rotate 
into the battlefield and displace American heavy combat forces. That is 
the right way to leave Iraq. Not this way.