# CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE  BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `aa5720d4cbe5dbfab6c103dcdeb71da2`
`Mr. HOLT â€” 5 June 2008`

---


Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, a budget is a moral document that demonstrates 
our values and priorities. I want to congratulate Chairman Spratt for 
again bringing forth a budget that represents values of which we can be 
proud. This budget would make real investments in education, hometown 
security, veterans' programs, healthcare, and research and development 
while bringing the budget back to surplus by 2012.

I am pleased that this Fiscal Year 2009 budget continues to follow 
the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) principle that the House restored at the 
start of the 110th Congress. This ensures that every new dollar of 
spending is offset and will not worsen the deficit. Although the budget 
resolution does not set the taxes or appropriation money, it does lay 
out the plan for the coming years to spend money and to raise revenues.

The budget would require the Ways and Means Committee to find the 
savings required to prevent millions of new Americans from having to 
pay the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), which has slowly morphed into a 
middle-class tax hike. More families in Central New Jersey are affected 
by the AMT than anywhere else in the country. Last year, Congress 
prevented nearly 23 million Americans, including more than 88,000 in 
the 12th Congressional District, from paying the AMT in 2008. Without 
action on this issue even more Americans would be affected by the AMT 
in the future.

With the price of oil now over $130 a barrel, this budget would make 
a significant investment in our Nation's energy future by providing 
$7.7 billion for renewable energy, energy efficiency, and other energy 
programs. This is $2.8 billion--or 55 percent--more than the Fiscal 
Year 2008 budget. In doing so, the budget would reject the President's 
budget cuts to energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, and 
instead invest $2 billion in new programs to create ''green collar 
jobs.''

Mr. Speaker, this budget honors our commitment to our Nation's 
children by investing in education. The budget would provide $8.4 
billion above the President's request--new funding that could support 
vital programs like Head Start, special education, school improvement 
programs, and Title 1. The budget also would help make college more 
affordable and accessible for students in New Jersey and throughout the 
country by increasing funding that could support Pell grants, 
Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, and programs that broaden 
access to Historically Black Colleges and Universities.

Facing difficult and uncertain economic times, this budget would 
invest in job creation and job training. In addition to investing in 
programs to create ''green collar jobs,'' we reject the President's 
cuts to Community Development Block Grants and his proposal to 
eliminate four job training programs. We also look to a long-term 
economic growth strategy, one that invests in science and research and 
development. This budget would support our Innovation Agenda by 
increasing funding for the America COMPETES Act, which authorized 
robust funding for research at the National Science Foundation and the 
Department of Energy's Office of Science.


Our budget also addresses the fact that our Nation has more Americans 
than ever living without health insurance, including over nine million 
children. We would include funding to provide up to $50 billion for 
children's health insurance. This would help insure millions of 
children. Likewise, our budget recognizes the importance of Medicaid 
and Medicare and would reject the President's harmful proposal to cut 
Medicaid by $94 billion and Medicare by $479 billion over ten years.

Mr. Speaker, I'm proud of this budget's commitment to making America 
more safe and secure. Notably, we would provide additional funding to 
implement the 9/11 commission recommendations, including required 100 
percent screening for shipping and air cargo. We would also place a 
greater emphasis on funding nuclear nonproliferation programs, one of 
the most severe threats to our security.

Additionally, we would restore funding for vital first responder 
programs, including the State Homeland Security Grant Program (cut $705 
million), Firefighter Assistance Grants (cut $463 million), Byrne 
Justice Assistance Grants (eliminated all formula funding), and COPS 
(cut $599 million).

This budget continues our commitment to fully fund veterans' health 
care by providing $48.2 billion for 2009, which is $4.9 billion (11.4 
percent) more than the 2008 level. In fact, it would provide $3.3 
billion more than the President's budget for 2009 and $39 billion more 
over five years. Consistent with past practice, the President's budget 
actually cuts funding after the first year. This budget also would 
allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to treat 5.8 million 
patients in 2009, including an estimated 333,275 Iraq and Afghanistan 
war veterans, many of whom suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, 
traumatic brain injuries, or blast-related injuries. Additionally, the 
budget rejects the health care fee increases imposed by the President's 
budget, which total $2.3 billion over five years, including a new 
enrollment fee and pharmaceutical co-payment increases. Finally, this 
budget increases funding to speed disability claims processing, so that 
VA can continue to reduce its backlog.

I would like to recognize the budget's impact on voting reform. 
Implementing a nationwide requirement for independently auditable, and 
audited, vote counts is a priority of mine. As such, I was deeply 
disappointed that the President's budget made no request for funding 
under Title II of the Help America Vote Act. Approximately $560 million 
of the funding authorized under that Title remains unappropriated, and 
jurisdictions across the country could use that funding to improve the 
accuracy, integrity and security of their voting systems, as well as 
improve the administration of elections generally. Additionally, I was 
disappointed to see that the President requested only half of what 
remains authorized to fund disability access grants to ensure polling 
place accessibility. As we continue to debate the budget, we should 
address these budget shortfalls.

Mr. Speaker, this budget reflects values for which we can be proud. 
We reject cuts to important healthcare, education, veterans, and 
national security programs while maintaining our commitment to fiscal 
responsibility. By adopting this budget and supporting the designated 
funding levels throughout the appropriations process, we would be 
investing in priorities important to our future.