---
---

# None
## `aa5da8f83fc64277d86c96999ec17b18`
`Mr. BURGESS — 15 July 2010`

---


Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today 
and congratulate Staff Sergeant Zackary T. Filip, of Denton, Texas, for 
winning the 2010 Army Times Soldier of the Year award.

The United States has the strongest and best military in the world, 
and it is because of the service and dedication of members of our armed 
services like SSGT Filip that this is true. Each year, Military Times 
honors five ''Everyday Heroes''--service members who demonstrate pride, 
dedication and courage beyond what is expected. The awards are given to 
service members who exhibit exemplary achievement beyond the call of 
duty, a high level of professionalism, concern for fellow service 
members, and commitment to community service. SSGT Filip has embodied 
each of these qualities during his service in the U.S. Army.

On November 5, 2009, while stationed at Fort Hood, Texas, SSGT Filip 
found himself in the middle of the worst-ever mass killing on a U.S. 
military post. He came upon Sgt. Kimberly Munley, who had just shot-
down the alleged gunman. SSGT Filip had no medical supplies with him, 
so he used his belt to create a tourniquet to stop the bleeding from a 
gunshot wound in Sgt. Munley's leg. SSGT Filip's actions are credited 
with saving Sgt. Munley's life. But SSGT Filip's assistance did not end 
there--he continued working with others to treat 55 other victims shot 
that day.

This award is not SSGT Filip's first honor, though. During a tour in 
Afghanistan in 2008, on Christmas Eve, SSGT Filip was on a joint patrol 
with Afghan army soldiers. The group came under gunfire, and Filip and 
a fellow medic, during the course of the battle, spent three hours 
running from position to position, under heavy fire, to treat four 
wounded Afghans. Their heroic and selfless actions that day earned SSGT 
Filip a Bronze Star and an Army Commendation for Valor.

SSGT Filip is currently the Platoon Sergeant for the U.S. Army's 4th 
Squadron, 9th Calvary Regiment's medical platoon at Ft. Hood, TX. He 
currently lives in Copperas Cove, TX, with his wife, Briana, and three 
young sons, Grayson, Gabriel and Gavin.

Madam Speaker, I rise today with the highest esteem to honor and 
congratulate Staff Sergeant Zackary Filip for his well-deserved award, 
the 2010 Army Times Soldier of the Year award. May God bless SSGT Filip 
and all of the brave men and women fighting in harm's way to protect 
Americans and our liberties and freedoms, and may God bless America.
