---
---

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010
## `aa6f282c1ff9280f8ad7eb5234673f6b`
`Ms. LEE of California — 29 July 2009`

---


Ms. LEE of California. Madam Chair, I rise today in opposition to 
H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for FY 2010.

At a time when our nation is facing an unprecedented series of 
challenges, I believe we must do more to curb the runaway growth in 
defense spending.

Instead of spending a staggering 52 percent of the federal 
discretionary budget for the pentagon, we should be using this money to 
fund universal health care for all Americans, or to reform our 
educational system and train and prepare the next generation to run the 
green economy of the future, or to reorder our foreign policy around a 
smart security strategy that emphasizes development and diplomacy.

We cannot and should not continue to throw money at billion dollar 
cold-war era weapon systems while ignoring the needs and priorities of 
the American people.

I must note that it is about time we have included the full costs of 
our overseas deployments and other activities in the regular budget 
process and Defense Appropriations bill after years of the Bush 
Administration insisting the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
be kept from view.

Although I am pleased to see that H.R. 3326 includes language 
prohibiting the establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq or 
Afghanistan, it should come as no surprise that I believe the situation 
in Iraq and in Afghanistan does not lend itself to a military solution.

Madam Chair, I cannot support the $128 billion included in this bill 
for overseas operations which may further entrench the United States in 
conflict and continue us down a path to war without end.

As the daughter of a military veteran, let me close by saying I 
strongly support our troops as well as respect the necessity of 
adequately equipping them for the threats they face around the globe.

In the case of this bill, I strongly, support the recommendation of 
our President and our military leadership to halt production of the F-
22 at 187 planes.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and to support the Murtha 
amendment to reallocate funds away from the F-22 advance procurement 
program.