# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `aa73165779fb68c5319c0f03134fcb95`
`Mrs. LINCOLN — 17 March 2010`

---


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. President, today I honor Sergeant Vincent L.C. 
Owens, 21, of Fort Smith, who died on March 1 in Afghanistan from 
injuries sustained in combat. My heart goes out to the family of 
Sergeant Owens, who made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our 
Nation.

According to those who knew him best, Sergeant Owens was a gifted 
student who enjoyed attending school in Greenwood, Fort Smith, and Van 
Buren. He also was an avid athlete who liked to play soccer and 
football. His


hobby was motorcycles, with a special interest in trick riding.

Sergeant Owens' awards and decorations include two Army Commendation 
Medals; two Army Achievement Medals; a Valorous Unit Award; a National 
Defense Service Medal; an Iraq Campaign Medal; and a Global War on 
Terrorism Service Medal. He is survived by his wife Kaitlyn Owens; his 
mother Sheila Real of Spiro, OK; his father Keith Owens of Missouri; a 
stepson Paxton Lee Owens; one sister; and three brothers.

Along with all Arkansans, I am grateful for Sergeant Owens' service 
and for the service and sacrifice of all of our military servicemembers 
and their families. More than 11,000 Arkansans on active duty and more 
than 10,000 Arkansas reservists have served in Iraq or Afghanistan 
since September 11, 2001.

It is the responsibility of our Nation to provide the tools necessary 
to care for our country's returning servicemembers and honor the 
commitment our Nation made when we sent them into harm's way. Our 
grateful Nation will not forget them when their military service is 
complete. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.












Sergeant Jonathan J. Richardson


Mr. President, today I also honor Sergeant Jonathan J. Richardson, 
24, of Bald Knob, who died from combat wounds incurred in Khowst 
Province, Afghanistan. My heart goes out to the family of Sergeant 
Richardson, who made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our Nation.

Sergeant Richardson is survived by his grandparents, Ken and Edna 
Martin of Mountain Home, AR; his wife Rachel Richardson of Clarksville, 
TN; his mother Sharon Dunigan of Bridgeport, WV; and his father Jeffery 
Richardson of Germany.

Along with all Arkansans, I am grateful for Sergeant Richardson's 
service and for the service and sacrifice of all of our military 
servicemembers and their families. More than 11,000 Arkansans on active 
duty and more than 10,000 Arkansas reservists have served in Iraq or 
Afghanistan since September 11, 2001.

It is the responsibility of our Nation to provide the tools necessary 
to care for our country's returning servicemembers and honor the 
commitment our Nation made when we sent them into harm's way. Our 
grateful Nation will not forget them when their military service is 
complete. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much.
