# SERGEANT MATTHEW L. INGRAM POST OFFICE
## `aa750f523757737ef3cb6c6005fe1511`
`Mr. HARPER — 13 January 2010`

---


Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4139, a 
resolution to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located in Hickory, Mississippi, as the ''Sergeant Matthew L. 
Ingram Post Office.''

As a child, Matthew was thought of by his mother, Patricia, as the 
one giving the orders. She explains he would tell his older brother 
what to do. ''He's always been a leader, not a follower,'' explains 
Patricia. ''He did not want to be mediocre.'' As Matthew grew older, he 
saw many advantages to military service. For starters, he saw the Army 
as a way to serve the country that he loved, pay for his education, 
and, as his mother added, see the world.

Ingram joined the Army in the summer of 2003, fulfilling his basic 
training requirements at Fort Benning, Georgia. Matthew served as a 
member of the 2nd Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 4th Infantry Division, based in Fort Carson, Colorado. Soon after 
basic training his brigade was reassigned to South Korea, where he 
spent 10 months prior to his first deployment to Iraq for a 1-year 
tour.

Stationed in Colorado after returning from Iraq, Ingram would meet 
his future wife, Holly. Their 2006 marriage preceded his return for a 
second Iraq tour. However, this time he had been promoted to sergeant. 
In 2007, Sergeant Ingram returned to Colorado from theatre wearing an 
impressive military decoration. He wore one of the highest honors 
presented to soldiers who have been wounded while serving our country, 
the Purple Heart. As his mother would describe, ''That was his most 
prized possession.'' Sergeant Ingram's next call to duty was in 
Afghanistan in May of 2009, and for the first time he left not only a 
wife, whom he loved, but also a beautiful baby girl, Chloe. His 
departure would be the last time this brave young soldier would embrace 
his family that he loved so much.

On August 20, 2009, Army Sergeant Matthew Ingram died from wounds 
suffered from an IED detonated near his vehicle during combat in 
Afghanistan. The blast occurred while his unit was under small-arms 
fire from enemy forces. At the time of his death, the fighting in 
Afghanistan was so brutal that Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, described the situation as ''serious and 
deteriorating.'' Although this would be his last mission, combat had 
become familiar to this brave, 25-year-old Purple Heart recipient.

Naming this facility will present a constant reminder of the 
sacrifices Sergeant Ingram and other Mississippians have made through 
their service to our country. Matthew's love for his country and able 
leadership took him from Hickory, Mississippi, to Afghanistan, and his 
courage and sacrifice will never be forgotten. I urge you to support 
this resolution.