---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007
## `aa7b0db67cd21be60f2a3edb26c97466`
`Mr. SPECTER — 17 July 2007`

---


Mr. SPECTER. Madam President, I have sought recognition to conclude 
the statements I had made earlier today after being interrupted by the 
Senator from Nevada, that I might say accurately, rudely interrupted.

I was speaking in the context of reserving a right to object to a 
unanimous consent request, and the technical rules provide that 
speeches may not be made but only an objection lodged. But it has been 
the common practice in this body to allow a Senator who reserves the 
right to object to make a statement as to why the objection is being 
lodged.

This is in reply to the Senator asking unanimous consent and who has 
spoken at some length to give the reasons why an objection is being 
lodged. When the majority leader cut me off, then made reference to 
what the people of Pennsylvania want, the last time I looked, Senator 
Casey and Senator Specter represented the people of Pennsylvania, not 
Senator Harry Reid.

When he talks about my State, then he talks about me, and he raises 
an intonation that I did not know what my constituents want. I at least 
ought to have an opportunity to reply because I think I know more about 
Pennsylvania than Senator Reid does.

But to be cut off in that context was rude, to say the minimum. There 
are rules and there are customs, there are accepted practices. It is 
the custom of this body, when a Senator reserves a right to object and 
seeks to make a statement, to let him make the statement. That is the 
custom and that is the accepted practice. When the majority leader 
talks about the rules, we saw on the immigration bill how one Senator 
can tie this place up in knots, can bring the Senate to a screeching 
halt by utilizing the rules: asking for the full text of amendments be 
read, asking that the previous day's business be read. The rules would 
permit any Senator to stop the Senate in its tracks from doing any 
business.

So there is something more than the rules. There is the custom and 
there is the accepted practice that if the Senate does not run on 
comity, on courtesy, on basic decency, the Senate cannot run at all.

Now, I had made the comment about reserving the right to object 
because I strenuously object to what has transpired in this body in the 
past 24 hours. We had a meaningless, insulting, all-night session for 
absolutely no purpose. It was an indignity to the Senators who were 
kept here all night to vote on a procedure that had no purpose 
whatsoever. The Senate luxuriates in its


reputation as the world's greatest deliberative body. But last night's 
performance made us the laughingstock of the world. There was no way 
that anything meaningful would happen as a result of a vote on the 
Levin-Reed amendment. There is no doubt that there are not 67 votes 
present to override a veto. There is little doubt that there are not 60 
votes present to bring the issue to a vote.

So what were we doing on an all-night session? The majority leader 
stated the purpose was to show the American people he would not back 
down. Well, I think he showed the American people how ineffective he 
is. The time when the majority leader and the Democratic leadership in 
the Congress could have asserted itself was on the supplemental 
appropriations bill. That was the bill which the President needed to 
continue funding the war in Iraq. We were out of money. It took $100 
billion, approximately, to move forward. That was the point where, as 
the majority leader said, he wanted a majority of 51-vote majority to 
express the will of the Congress, it could have been done.

The Democratic leadership in the Congress backed down. I thought they 
did so appropriately in a contest with the President because the safety 
of the troops was involved. But that was the time to take a stand if 
the majority leader wanted to have a vote of 51.

When he takes down the Department of Defense authorization bill, it 
is not his bill alone, it is not just the Levin-Reed amendment, there 
are a lot of other provisions in that bill.

Senator Leahy and I had an important amendment on habeas corpus which 
is relevant to the operation of the Department of Defense and 
Guantanamo, and the detention of many men who have been denied rights 
established in 1215 under the Magna Carta, and this body unadvisedly, 
erroneously legislated to take away that habeas right.

I continue to think it would be corrected in the courts, but that is 
another matter too lengthy to go into now. But Senator Leahy and I had 
that amendment pending. Senator Kerry and I and others have an 
amendment pending on signing statements, where the President has 
disregarded the legislation passed by the Congress to cherry-pick and 
add limitations in so-called signing statements.

There was also an amendment which this Senator had proposed to bring 
up for a vote on rendition. So there was a great deal more to be done 
on this bill than Iraq alone.

But with respect to Iraq, there were other amendments which ought to 
be considered, and which should have been considered, without the 
majority leader taking the bill down. We could have debated the Levin-
Reed amendment in a few hours and we could have debated the Warner-
Lugar amendment in a few hours and we could have debated the Salazar-
Alexander amendment in a few hours and we could have done it during the 
daytime yesterday, instead of having quorum calls consume the time of 
the Senate when nothing is done here, until the majority leader decides 
to exercise his power to keep the Senate in all night on a meaningless, 
insulting session.

But there are important matters to be debated on what Senator Warner 
and Senator Lugar have proposed. They have suggested, and they filed an 
amendment, directing the President to prepare a plan by October 16, a 
plan which would contemplate withdrawal starting December 31. But it 
did not tell the President he had to do it, and there is a serious 
constitutional question with the President's authority as Commander in 
Chief. Certainly, Congress cannot micromanage the war. The question 
about putting limitations on Presidential authority is a tough issue, 
but it would be well to have the President plan for a contingency.

We know the planning has been insufficient, no planning as to what 
would happen after Saddam Hussein fell. So when Senator Warner and 
Senator Lugar wanted to put that forward, we should have debated it. 
When it calls for consideration of withdrawal on December 31, we should 
have debated it. When they call in that amendment for another 
resolution defining the scope of the President's authority on the war, 
we should have debated it.

Senator Salazar and Senator Alexander had an amendment which would 
incorporate the findings of the Iraq Study Group. I was seriously 
considering, still am considering, cosponsoring those amendments. I 
think had we known Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass 
destruction, we would not have gone into Iraq. But once in Iraq, we do 
not want to leave it in an unstable situation and in turmoil. We have 
had very forceful statements from very prominent Republican supporters 
of the President that if there is not real progress, significant 
progress by September, the funding will not be continued. I have said 
that if we do not have the metaphor of ''a light at the end of a 
tunnel'' by September, that funding is in serious question. But those 
are not matters which we are going to decide in July; those are matters 
which we will decide in September.

After we have the report by General Petraeus and after we have the 
President's report, we will make a judgment as to what we will do in 
September. That was the import of the appropriations bill which we 
passed 2 months ago, funding through September 30. The issue of funding 
for the next fiscal year is one which this Congress will have to decide 
when the issue is ripe. I am uncertain as to what my vote will be. But 
I do believe that if there is not a light at the end of the tunnel, 
that it is a very questionable matter to proceed indefinitely because 
of the failure of the Iraqis to live up to their commitments to end 
sectarian violence, to deal with the legislative proposals in their 
Parliament on oil revenues and many other matters.

But I hope we will see a reevaluation of what is going to be done in 
the Senate.

This body is very different than it was when I was elected in 1980, 
very different from what it was when Senator Byrd was elected in 1958 
and Senator Biden was elected in 1972. With Senator Byrd and Senator 
Biden, there is real comity, and so with Senator Leahy and myself on 
Judiciary and Senator Harkin and myself on the appropriations 
subcommittee. But that is the exception, regrettably, rather than the 
rule around here. When a Senator seeks to speak, he ought to be 
accorded some basic courtesy and comity on what is custom and what is 
practice.

I had a short talk with Senator Lott after the majority leader 
interrupted me, and Senator Lott said the majority leader did the same 
thing to him a couple of days ago. When Senator Lott was majority 
leader, he didn't have that practice. Senator Lott said the majority 
leader wanted to publicly apologize. Senator Lott said: Not necessary. 
Public apologies don't mean much.

It doesn't mean much to make this speech to an empty Chamber, 
frankly. The time I should have been heard was when Senators were on 
the floor, when Senators were considering what the majority leader had 
done in taking down the bill. That is when it was right.

As I sat here waiting for time to speak and consulting with the 
managers of the bill to get their consent, the majority leader came 
over and said: I will see to it that you get recognized first. I said: 
No, thanks, I will get myself recognized. There is a time when no one 
else is around and on a jump ball a Senator can get recognized.

Those practices, I think, are not only rude but dictatorial--
dictatorial to flout the custom and the practice of this body and to go 
back to technical rules. If those technical rules are applied, and any 
one of us can do it, this body will cease to function.

I yield the floor.