---
---

# THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET
## `aa810640bd031f55e98af78b7800b6cb`
`Mr. RANGEL — 26 February 2008`

---


Mr. RANGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my concern over 
President Bush's handling of the budget and to enter into the Record 
editorials from today's Washington Post, ''Budget Mess--President 
Bush's last spending plan only adds to a disastrous fiscal legacy'' and 
from today's New York Times, ''Lame-Duck Budget.''

President Bush was given a gift 7 years ago; the gift was a projected 
surplus of $5.6 trillion over the next decade. He has been neither 
appreciative nor responsible with this gift that America entrusted him 
with to make the lives of all Americans better. Instead his policies 
have benefited select groups and special interest. Case in point, his 
tax cutting agenda has greatly improved the lives of households with 
incomes totaling more than $450,000 a year. These are some of the 
wealthiest American households.

The national debt has grown by $2 trillion and the projected $725 
billion surplus for the upcoming fiscal year (2009) has disappeared and 
in its place has appeared a $407 billion deficit. Based on Mr. Bush's 
recent budget submission, he proposes to pay for additional tax cuts 
through $397 billion deficit spending over the next 5 years.

Mr. Bush leaves behind a legacy of failed fiscal policies and 
priorities. Mr. Bush stated his budget plan would put the country on 
the road to balancing the budget by 2012. However, he mistakenly forgot 
to inform the American people that his plan only partially funds the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for 2009, and starting in 2010, he has 
planned zero spending. This is a disingenuous attempt to make his 
budget plan seem plausible.

There are no winners with the Bush budget proposal; domestic spending 
programs will be cut or remain flat. There is no long-term planning for 
the alternative minimum tax and both Medicare and health care spending 
will suffer devastating cuts.

Given the uncertain economic future of the country Mr. Bush's budget 
proposal leaves his successor with a very difficult task ahead. This is 
especially disheartening since his predecessor left him with a surplus.









[From the Washington Post, Feb. 2, 2008]
















Budget Mess




 Seven long years ago, a new president submitted his first 


 budget--an optimistic document now relevant only as a 


 chastening artifact of a bygone era. In that ''Blueprint for 


 New Beginnings,'' George W. Bush grappled with the supposed 


 challenge of dealing with a projected surplus of $5.6 


 trillion over the next decade. The president proposed to pay 


 down the debt by $2 trillion during that time, which, he 


 said, was as much as could be responsibly redeemed. He 


 offered lavish tax cuts. And he vowed to ''confront great 


 challenges from which Government has too long flinched,'' 


 putting Social Security and Medicare on solid financial 


 footing.



 The final budget of Mr. Bush's presidency arrived 


 yesterday, and the contrast between then and now could hardly 


 be more sobering. Instead of being paid down, the national 


 debt has grown by $2 trillion. The $725 billion surplus once 


 projected for the coming fiscal year (2009) has evaporated. 


 In its place is a $407 billion deficit--an unrealistically 


 rosy number that omits billions in likely war spending and is 


 artificially reduced by including the $200 billion Social 


 Security surplus. The explosion in entitlement costs has been 


 left unaddressed and is therefore even more daunting. Indeed, 


 on entitlements, Mr. Bush's legacy will be to have added to 


 the long-term tab with the addition of an expensive Medicare 


 prescription drug benefit.



 Some of this transformation, as the administration would be 


 the first to point out, is not Mr. Bush's fault. Even as he 


 submitted that initial budget, the economy was slowing. The 


 attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, further rattled the economy and 


 imposed huge unanticipated costs for homeland security and 


 military operations overseas. Mr. Bush tried to launch the 


 necessary debate on Social Security, and, although the 


 president can be faulted for having poisoned the well with a 


 relentlessly partisan legislative strategy, congressional 


 Democrats chose to respond with more partisanship.



 But the fact remains that the purported surplus on which 


 Mr. Bush based his tax-cutting agenda was always something of 


 a mirage, and the president has never been willing to adjust 


 his agenda to the grim new fiscal reality. Yesterday's 


 promise of a small surplus by 2012 is once again premised on 


 omitting likely costs (zero is budgeted for operations in 


 Iraq and Afghanistan) and by assuming cuts to domestic 


 spending that are unachievable politically and, in large 


 part, unwise as a matter of policy.



 As always, Mr. Bush pledges to press ahead with his tax-


 cutting agenda: another $2.4 trillion over the next decade, 


 $3.7 trillion if relief from the alternative minimum tax is 


 included. The President argues that failing to extend his 


 previous tax cuts would result in an average tax increase of 


 $1,800. But Mr. Bush neglects to point out that the 


 overwhelming share of the tax cuts go to the wealthiest 


 Americans. The top 1 percent of households--those with 


 incomes of more than $450,000--would get 31 percent of the 


 benefits, with tax cuts averaging $67,000 by 2012. And Mr. 


 Bush does not even propose fully paying for these cuts: The 


 budget he submitted yesterday envisions another $397 billion 


 in deficit spending over the next five years because it would 


 devote more money to tax cuts than it would cut in spending.



 Mr. Bush inherited a potential windfall--and squandered it. 


 The next president will inherit his mess.