---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009
## `aa839f4c6abc02884648c1c5af98e289`
`Mr. REID — 10 September 2008`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I deeply appreciate the Senators engaged in 
the debate on the amendment offered by Senator Vitter allowing me to 
step forward and give a speech. I have been looking for an opportunity 
to do this. I traveled in August to Afghanistan with a bipartisan 
Senate delegation. I remember a lot of things about that trip, but 
probably the most stunning was a statement made by Ambassador Wood, the 
American Ambassador to Afghanistan. He said you could take Afghanistan, 
pick it up and move it to the poorest country in all of Africa, and the 
African country would say: Now, that is really poor.

Afghanistan is very poor. I have had the good fortune, in my many 
years in Congress, to travel to many places in the world. I have seen 
some very economically depressed areas, but Afghanistan is the topper.

During my trip to Afghanistan, I met with general officers, I met 
with troops. We traveled to Kyrgyzstan, to


Kazakhstan, allies in our fight against terror, and every place I went, 
I had the opportunity to meet with officers and, of course, the troops. 
They are fighting on the frontlines every day. During my meetings with 
the generals and the troops, they reinforced to me their courage and 
determination to win the fight against the Taliban and the terrorists.

I learned a lot about Afghanistan, but one thing in particular I 
learned about is the terrain. Oh, is it mountainous. High mountains.

I attended a funeral not too long ago in Boulder City, NV, because a 
young Navy SEAL by the name of Eric ''Shane'' Patton was killed in 
Afghanistan. When I attended the funeral, I didn't understand the full 
implications of what this young man and the SEALs who were there with 
him--who served with him and trained with him--had gone through. But 
there is a book out, and I would recommend it to everyone. Every 
Senator who is interested at all in what is going on around the world 
and loves history should read this book. It is called ''The Lone 
Survivor.''

Shane Patton is one of those who didn't survive. As I indicated, I 
better appreciate now what the SEALs were doing there and why and how 
Eric ''Shane'' Patton was killed.

I knew his family. I was from a neighboring town. I went to a high 
school in a town called Henderson, NV, where his great-uncle Charlie 
and I were competitors athletically, football and baseball. I remember 
very clearly the funeral, after having been to Afghanistan.

We didn't spend all of our time with the troops. We traveled to other 
parts of the country. One part of the trip took us to a vocational 
school where young Afghani women and men were receiving training in 
computers, English, car repair, and other skills so they could pull 
their families and their country out of poverty toward a brighter day. 
I can remember, I went to the back of the room and there were some 
young women there. I don't know how old they were, but they were young. 
They were teenagers or maybe in their early twenties. I talked to them. 
Some of them spoke fairly good English.

One girl wouldn't talk to me. When I asked a question, she would 
write things on the palm of her hand. It was not because she couldn't 
talk. It was just she was not used to being out, I guess, with men, in 
public places. They are so happy to be able to be out of the clutches 
of the Taliban and learning something.

Despite the years of chaos and bloodshed, despite many families being 
torn apart by this war, the young people I met there were brimming with 
hope, for lack of a better description. Seeing these young men and 
women study together I was reminded of the difference the United States 
had made by aiding their fight against the Taliban.

One of my long-time Nevada friends, Harriett Trudell, who worked for 
me when I was in the House of Representatives, asked me if I would meet 
with Eleanor Smeal, who runs an organization in town called the 
Feminist Majority. She was concerned about how women were being treated 
by the Taliban, as well she should be. It was awful what this group of 
people did to women. These people, hopefully, see the light and will 
not have to go back to that day.

The courage of our troops and the Afghan people was inspiring to me, 
but I was reminded of the difference the United States has made by 
aiding in the fight against this Taliban. But there is another 
conclusion you cannot avoid if you go to Afghanistan. The progress I 
saw is being undermined by the security situation that is deteriorating 
day by day.

I returned home more convinced than ever that the greatest threat to 
our national security lies in Pakistan and Afghanistan. These places 
must be our central focus on the war on terror. Today, 1 day from the 
seventh anniversary of the most violent terrorist attack ever to take 
place on American soil, the mastermind of the attack, Osama bin Laden, 
is still free. For all the tough rhetoric of the Bush administration of 
chasing bin Laden to the gates of hell--he has been joined in that by 
Senator McCain--the Bush administration has failed to put the necessary 
resources and manpower in the hunt for America's No. 1 enemy. We had 
him trapped in a place called Tora Bora, but our eyes were taken off 
that. Troops were taken out of Afghanistan and sent to the unnecessary 
war in Iraq.

President Bush has rightly said the war on terror is about more than 
just one man. Yet 7 years after 9/11, the President has allowed that 
group called al-Qaida to regroup in its safe haven in Pakistan. And in 
Afghanistan, the sad fact is that the Taliban, the brutally oppressive 
regime that housed bin Laden and al-Qaida, is on the rise, attacking 
our troops and innocent Afghan civilians. So we must be clear-eyed in 
the realization that the same people who attacked us then continue to 
regain strength and threaten us now.

This dire situation could have been avoided. When President Bush took 
us to Afghanistan following 9/11, Democrats, our country, and the world 
stood with him. We knew it was a fight that we must wage and we must 
win. But after a series of military victories the President lost focus 
and turned, instead, to an ill-conceived war in Iraq. With the job 
unfinished in Afghanistan, the President devoted our troops and 
treasure to another battlefield.

Predictably, with the focus shifted, the Afghan people joining with 
us found no one at their side. The progress in Afghanistan began to go 
backward, with neighborhoods once reclaimed from the enemy becoming 
battlegrounds once again. The reason for this failure is no mystery. No 
matter how hard the Republican spin machine tries to rewrite history 
and obscure the truth, the fact is, the terrorists who attacked us on 
9/11 were in Afghanistan, not in Iraq. As much as we are glad about 
Saddam Hussein, and we all are, during his reign--and that is what it 
was in Iraq--there were no terrorists there. Afghanistan is a far 
larger country than Iraq, with a larger population and far, far more 
difficult terrain. Yet today we have about 34,000 American troops in 
Afghanistan and about 150,000 in Iraq.

Afghanistan is much poorer than Iraq. I have explained to the 
Presiding Officer and those listening how important that is, according 
to Ambassador Wood. It may not be the poorest country in the world, but 
it is right up there. Yet the money we have spent in Afghanistan is a 
small fraction of what we have spent in Iraq--approaching $1 trillion 
in Iraq. Afghanistan is the home of al-Qaida, home of the Taliban, the 
central front of the war on terror. Yet there are 4/1/2/ times as many 
troops in Iraq, and we have spent huge amounts more money in Iraq than 
Afghanistan.

The result of this, the Republican failure led by President Bush, is 
clear. After a drop in violence early in the war, the Taliban came back 
with a vengeance in mid-2006. By that time we didn't have enough troops 
on the ground to respond. The troops needed were 1,500 miles away.

This is not just Harry Reid giving an anti-Bush speech. The commander 
of American forces in the region, the No. 1 man, ADM William Fallon, 
put it this way in January of this year:




 Back in 2001, early 2002, the Taliban were pretty much 


 vanquished.


Just what I said. He continued:




 But my sense looking back is we moved focus to Iraq, which 


 was the priority from 2003 on, and the attention and 


 resources focused on a different place.


That is what Admiral Fallon said, and that is what I have said in my 
remarks prior to this quote. With resources focused on a different 
place, Admiral Fallon said, here is what we are now seeing. In July, 
nearly twice as many U.S. troops were killed in Afghanistan as in Iraq. 
June was the second deadliest month in Afghanistan for coalition and 
U.S. troops since the start of the war. In eastern Afghanistan, attacks 
on coalition troops increased by more than 40 percent over the first 5 
months of the year. Roadside bombings have increased. Opium production 
is up.

Mr. President, 93 percent of all the world's opium is produced in 
Afghanistan--heroin. Coincidentally, right before we had our break, 
before I went to Afghanistan, I received a call from a woman. I, of 
course, recognized her name. Her former husband was the first criminal 
client I ever represented. I was appointed by the court to represent 
this indigent. I walked into that jail and looked through the bars and 
here was this man. He should have been


in the movies, not in jail--handsome. His name was Gregory Torres, 
Humbert Gregory Torres. He put his wife through hell. They had a little 
baby. She was a showgirl in Las Vegas, also as beautiful as he was 
handsome. She called me to tell me he had died. I represented him in 
the 1960s. He survived, in and out of prison; off of heroin for short 
periods of time, but it is an addiction that is very hard to fight.

Mr. President, 93 percent of the stuff used to create hell in 
people's lives comes from Afghanistan--heroin. We have to do better 
than that; 93 percent of the world's opium is produced in one country.


President Bush's failures in Iraq and Afghanistan have had 
consequences beyond the borders of those two countries. This morning, 
the bipartisan American Security Project issued a report noting that 
attacks by violent terrorist groups around the world are at an all-time 
high. This is without the terrorist attacks in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
Their report also notes that ungoverned spaces continue to provide 
sanctuary for terrorist organizations, including Afghanistan, east and 
north Africa, and Somalia. Yesterday President Bush had one last chance 
to meaningfully change the strategy and begin to reverse all these 
backsliding trends, but he chose not to do so. He chose to stick with 
the status quo and not make the significant changes that were 
necessary. Unfortunately, we have seen no reason to believe a John 
McCain Presidency would offer any break from the failed Bush foreign 
policy.

For all his talk about listening to commanders on the ground, George 
Bush--and John McCain--are dangerously deaf to the calls of our 
commanders in Afghanistan. Listen to what Admiral Mullen said--Admiral 
Mullen, not Fallon. Here is what he said in addition to what Fallon 
said. Fallon said, back in 2001 early 2002:




 The Taliban were pretty much vanquished. But my sense 


 looking back is that we moved focus to Iraq, which was the 


 priority from 2003 on, and the attention was on a different 


 place.


Here is what Admiral Mullen said, also one of the leading commanders 
of the American military:




 I have made no secret of my desire to flow more forces, 


 U.S. forces, to Afghanistan just as soon as I can, nor have I 


 been shy about saying that those forces will not be available 


 unless or until the situation in Iraq permits us to do so. . 


 . .


We know today that no more than a token shift of troop levels will 
take place until we have a new President, a new President committed to 
winning the war on terrorism by fighting the actual terrorists, not 
creating war but winning war. That will require a new approach to Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and Pakistan. We have seen in Pakistan a dangerous 
approach by this administration, placing all of our bets on one man, 
General Musharraf.

Senator Daschle and I were the first two American elected officials 
to meet him after the coup. We went there and we met with him. 
Obviously, all the talking to him by us and others did not do a lot of 
good because what President Bush did was place everything on this one 
man. It was a fatal and avoidable--certainly an avoidable--blunder. 
Musharraf did not implement democracy, did not uphold human rights, and 
did not stop the terrorists operating inside Pakistan's borders. He 
fired all the judges. American dollars meant to fight terrorism were 
wasted, the Pakistani people suffered, and the United States lost 
credibility with them for supporting a dictator who did not want to 
uphold their basic human rights.

Because of President Bush's failed approach to Pakistan, we now have 
seen al-Qaida regroup within its borders. According to the declassified 
key judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate of July 2007 
entitled ''The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Homeland,'' al-Qaida has 
''protected or regenerated key elements of its Homeland attack 
capability, including a safe haven in the Pakistani Federal 
Administered Tribal Areas.''

The intelligence agencies reiterated this a few weeks ago, saying 
that al-Qaida ''has maintained or strengthened key elements of its 
capability to attack the United States in the past year.''

During our time in Afghanistan, from our meetings with President 
Karzai to our meetings with American generals, one message was clear: 
We cannot solve the problem in Afghanistan without solving the problem 
in Pakistan.

Those concerned with the writing of our history books will have ample 
opportunity to delve into the Bush failures in Iraq, Afghanistan, and 
Pakistan in far greater detail than I have done in these brief remarks. 
The historians will note that on George Bush's watch the Taliban grew 
stronger, running their operations from terrorist bases inside 
Pakistan.

They will note, the historians, that under George Bush's watch, al-
Qaida regrouped, ready to carry out other attacks against our great 
country. They will note on George Bush's watch, our national security 
was jeopardized, and the threats that led to the attacks in 2001 are as 
grave if not graver in 2008.

So our job in Congress is not to do the job of the historians, but to 
answer one question: Where do we go from here? President Bush gave his 
answer to that question yesterday. His answer was: We do not go 
anywhere. We stay exactly where we are.

John McCain has made it clear that he stands in place with George 
Bush. So with due respect to President Bush and Senator McCain, the 
status quo has failed. They are out of touch with the realities and 
ramifications of our efforts in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.

I saw in Afghanistan a people eager, desperate, and ready to lift 
their country to democracy, equality, and economic opportunity, but 
held down by the weight of an enemy we failed to destroy.

The military, our military, has expressed to me how impressed they 
are with the Afghan fighters. They do not leave battle. They are ready 
to fight. So I hope in the coming months, our courageous, overworked, 
overstretched, overstressed troops can continue to hold off the enemy. 
I am confident they will. They will do it without the full resources 
and manpower necessary to complete the mission, which is too bad.

I hope the American people have the wisdom to choose a leader who 
will take the war on terror back to the terrorists and look the Afghan 
people in the eye and say that help is on the way.

I suggest the absence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Salazar.) The clerk will call the roll.