---
---

# None
## `aa94df05bf295a04ed0477729aeeaf89`
`Mr. CONYERS — 15 May 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague from Michigan, Bart 
Stupak, for all that he has done with our committee, and with the 
Republicans on the subcommittee on the Judiciary Committee who worked 
so well on this.

I rise of course in support of H.R. 692 to honor fallen men and women 
who gave their lives to our Nation while on duty in the armed services.

As a veteran myself, I can appreciate this bill as much as anyone in 
the House. This 22-year-old soldier for whom the bill was named came 
from Bart Stupak's district, and gave his life on July 8, 2006. He was 
killed by an improvised explosive device that detonated near his 
vehicle during combat operations in Iraq.

This measure before us simply amends current law to add heroes like 
Specialist Micks to the list of persons in whose honor the flag may be 
flown at half-staff. It specifies that a Governor's proclamation 
ordering the flag to be flown at half-staff, consistent with this 
measure, would apply to all Federal installations and facilities in the 
State.

Over the last 4 years, at least 10 soldiers from Mr. Stupak's 
district have given their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan, and yet the 
national flags on some Federal buildings were not lowered in their 
honor, to the dismay of the family members and friends of these brave 
soldiers.

So the measure ensures that our Nation's fallen military heroes who 
made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of our Nation are 
appropriately honored and acknowledged.