---
---

# PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION
## `aa944a9fe9b38e93ccffaacf75a563c5`
`Mr. MEEK of Florida â€” 21 May 2008`

---


Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, I think it is important, 
and I think we can do a little back and forth here in the spirit of 
bipartisanship. I see one of our Republican colleagues who would like 
to share a few things a little later on, and we don't want to take all 
of the time, because we definitely want to hear from the Republican 
side this evening in the spirit of what we are doing here.

But I think it is important, Mr. Speaker and Mr. Murphy, I think that 
as we look at what is happening now, we know that we have an historic 
Presidential election that is taking place. And we are still in the 
primary mode, but it has a general election spirit that is there. There 
are slogans out there, ''yes, we can,'' and ''yes, we will,'' and 
''change that you deserve.''

It is interesting, because the President is still trying to play a 
major role.


We know that he will be commander-in-chief until January, but I think 
it is important, especially for some of our friends on the Republican 
side, that they pay very close attention to the past to understand the 
future.

There was a day and time when the American people were not really 
paying close attention to what is going on here in Washington, DC There 
was a time that young people who are concerned about tomorrow more than 
anyone else in this country were not paying attention to the likes of 
many of the individuals that are paying attention to politics now.

I remember one of the general demographics was 50-plus in the 
country. You have to make sure that you meet the needs of those 
individuals. But now that goes from 50-plus all the way down to 17/1/
2/, where Americans can register, and then at 18 they will get their 
voter registration card. So we have a full kind of age range there of 
folks that are paying attention to what is happening here.

I remember in the early days with Mr. Ryan and I, and then when Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz got here, Mr. Ryan and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and 
myself, and now the Majority Makers such as yourself and others are now 
coming to the floor. But back in the early days we used to share with 
our friends on the Republican side, you have a choice to make. Either 
are you are going to be on the New Direction agenda and give the 
American people what they deserve versus the special interests, or, Mr. 
Speaker, those Members will be watching the Congress on C-SPAN and 
other television outlets that would allow them to view what we are 
doing here on the floor at home while we are here voting.

We are in the majority now. We have won three special elections in 
quote-unquote ''Republican'' districts that were seen as Republican 
districts. But what I believe in and what I have subscribed to is the 
American spirit over politics. I believe people are now looking at 
their families and looking at their children and looking at their 
grandparents and looking at themselves in the mirror and saying, am I 
using the power that I possess with my voter registration card towards 
the benefit of my family, my community, my State, my country? Am I 
using that to the full advantage that I have as an American citizen? Or 
am I voting a party, or a personality, or what is politically quote-
unquote ''correct''?



And I think that question has come back in many of these districts 
and throughout the country of saying, I have to vote what is best for 
my children, for my parents, for my grandparents, for myself, for the 
fact that the economic situation is bad, for the fact that I don't have 
health care for so many Americans.

I have traveled this country, Mr. Speaker, on Presidential election 
and I have paid attention to what is going on. And every time the 
question is asked: How many people without health care? A super 
majority of the people put their hands up. Of course, I don't put my 
hands up because I am a Member of Congress and I have health care. But 
my constituents didn't say, hey, you know, Kendrick, we are going to 
vote for you to be in Congress so that you can have a health care plan 
for you and your family. We love you that much. Don't worry about us. 
And they didn't vote for any of us for that reason. I don't think any 
Member of Congress ran for office saying, I am running to make sure 
that I can have health care, and then maybe you will have health care.

But for some reason, some of our friends on the other side of the 
aisle didn't get that message or they have forgotten the message. But I 
am hoping, as we start looking at these issues, that, Mr. Murphy and 
Mr. Speaker and members, that more Republicans start understanding that 
this is not the Republican or executive committee back in their county 
or in their parish or whatever the case may be; that this is the U.S. 
Congress, and they may have been Federalized by the people in their 
district, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, in a general 
election to come here, provide the kind of representation that they 
woke up early one Tuesday morning looking for.

I say all of that to say this: That if it was about politics, Mr. 
Murphy, members, we would be home now. We would say nothing. We would 
allow the Republican minority to continue to get further and further 
and further in the minority. But the American spirit within our 
Democratic majority allows the 177 bipartisan votes, that we celebrate 
the 125 bipartisan votes, over 50 Republican members voting for 
Democratic measures that would never have made it to the floor on the 
Republican Congress.

The record speaks for itself. I am so happy and so glad that we have 
the kind of leadership, we have the kind of caucus that says, you know 
something? We are going to move in a new direction that the American 
people have called for, Mr. Murphy. Some people call it change now. 
Change is the big word of this election, because people have had a 
taste of change already in this House and in the Senate. They want that 
change in the White House.

Now, I want us to kind of go back and forth here, but I just want to 
share a little bit of the record because some work has been done here. 
I think it is important that we look at the kind of fight that--and I 
am going to call some of the things out that you have identified.

We have the new GI bill that extends benefits to veterans, and it 
provides and restores the full 4-year college scholarships for Iraq and 
Afghanistan veterans, and the President has threatened that he is going 
to veto that.

My question is, to the Republican minority, are you going to follow 
the President with this whole veto issue? If he does, will you leader 
up and override his veto?

Because I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, if we have an override once a 
week, maybe, just maybe--because the President is not running for 
election again. I just want to let my Republican colleagues know, they 
are. Some of them are, those that are not retiring. That they may want 
to pay attention to what the American people are saying versus what may 
be coming from the White House, because it hasn't worked, because they 
are in the minority right now.

I think it is also important for the responsible timeline for 
redeployment that requires Iraqis to pay their fair share of the 
restoration and other Iraqi policy restrictions that was in H.R. 2642, 
which is the 2008 supplemental that the President has threatened to 
veto again. Will our Republican colleagues write the Republican and 
say, listen, we are already in bad shape as a Republican minority in 
the Congress, we can't follow you on this. We will join Democrats and 
override your veto.

That is the American spirit. That is not saying, well, I am going to 
be a good Republican. Because it is important that we understand that 
folks didn't elect us to be good Republicans or good Democrats saying, 
well, I am going to follow the President because the President says 
that it should happen. The first version of the 2007 supplemental, the 
President vetoed the bill on May 1. I think it is important that folks 
understand this and the opportunities that we have to continue to build 
on the bipartisanship.

The responsible timeline for redeployment of troops, another bill 
that passed, H.R. 4156, the President has threatened that he is going 
to veto that. Also, H.R. 2956, that carries some of the same language. 
I mean, we are putting these bills out there. That bill passed 223-201. 
The President is threatening he is going to veto that.