---
---

# ENERGY
## `aaa3b56eac081779f8af85e4eba9ab61`
`Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut — 20 October 2009`

---


Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. I thank the gentleman for bringing this 
up, and I would like to really put this in real terms for people.

When I went over to Afghanistan and Pakistan with a group of Members 
of Congress earlier this year, I, frankly, was surprised to find out 
that the two major funders, the two major governments putting money on 
the ground in Pakistan, were the United States of America and Saudi 
Arabia. Saudi Arabia has the second largest presence on the ground in 
Pakistan with regard to the direct government funding of social service 
infrastructure, of educational infrastructure, and of health 
infrastructure. If you want a real example of how the money that we are 
paying in gas prices and in home heating oil prices are directly ending 
up contravening our national security interests, there is a perfect 
example.

Saudi Arabia is taking the money that it makes off of American 
consumers of oil, and they are putting that money on the ground in 
Pakistan to fund the madrasas, the religious schools and many of the 
efforts that are feeding this growing generation and generations of 
people who have adverse interests to the United States. They are the 
recruiting tools of the Taliban and of the al Qaeda funded on the 
ground in Pakistan by countries that get revenues from the use of their 
oil.


So, as we try to chart a path forward as to how we are going to make 
sense of the very direct threat presented to this country by al Qaeda's 
presence and by the Taliban's presence, giving them cover in Pakistan 
and in Afghanistan, we can't lose sight of the fact that this isn't 
just about how many troops we have there and what our role is vis-a-vis 
direct military action or the training of Afghan troops. This is also 
about the fact that, while we are funding all of those troops, as you 
have said, Mr. Boccieri, we are also funding at the very same time the 
efforts that are ongoing in both of those countries to undermine our 
efforts.

There are, frankly, a dozen great reasons that we need to progress 
towards energy independence, but with direct respect to the security of 
this country and to the threats presented to it in the Afghanistan-
Pakistan region, we have immediate, immediate imperatives to get 
ourselves off of the oil which is funneling the efforts against us.

Mr. Boccieri.