---
---

# LAWFUL INTERROGATION AND DETENTION ACT
## `aab398dca6fd1ec170736a6053335a0a`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 7 January 2009`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, I would like to speak--and I am 
joined on the floor by my comember of the Intelligence Committee, 
Senator Ron Wyden, who will also speak on this issue--about the bill 
that Senators Rockefeller, Wyden and Whitehouse and I introduced 
yesterday. It is the Lawful Interrogation and Detention Act.

I began this effort some time ago because I believe very strongly it 
is time to end the failed experiment at Guantanamo. It is time to 
repudiate torture and secret disappearances. It is time to end the 
outsourcing of coercive interrogations to outside contractors.

I believe it is time to return to the norms and values that have 
driven the United States to greatness since the days of George 
Washington but have been tarnished in the past 7 years. That is what 
both Senator Wyden and I hope this bill will do.

I have sent a copy of it to President-elect Obama's transition team. 
I have had occasion to talk with him about it and indicated that we 
look to work closely with him.

What this bill would do is require the President to close the 
detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay within 12 months. The need to 
close this facility is clear. Along with the abuses at Abu Ghraib, 
Guantanamo has been decried throughout the world. It has helped our 
enemies recruit, it has reduced America's credibility worldwide, 
strained relationships with our allies, and created a misguided dual 
legal system.

Additionally, the Supreme Court now has ruled four times that the 
procedures put in place at Guantanamo are illegal. First, in Rasul v. 
Bush, the Court ruled the administration could not hold detainees 
outside U.S. law on Guantanamo soil; second, Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, in 
which the Court ruled the Government could not detain a U.S. citizen 
without due process and struck down the executive's process of labeling 
detainees as unlawful enemy combatants; third, Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, in 
which the Court struck down the administration's process for trying 
detainees outside the civilian legal system or the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice; and most recently in Boumediene, in which the Court 
ruled that detainees must be afforded habeas corpus.

Guantanamo was explicitly created to be a separate and lesser system 
of justice, to hold people captured on or near the battlefield in 
Afghanistan indefinitely. In 7 years, it has produced three 
convictions, including Australian David Hicks--who agreed to a plea 
bargain to get off the island, and Osama bin Laden's driver, Salim 
Hamdan, whose sentence is almost already up.

The hard part about closing Guantanamo is not deciding to go do it; 
it is figuring out what to do with the remaining detainees. Under the 
Lawful Interrogation and Detention Act, the approximately 250 
individuals now being held there would be handled in one of five ways.

No. 1, they can be charged with a crime and tried in the United 
States in the Federal civilian or military justice systems. These 
systems have handled terrorists and other dangerous individuals before 
and are capable of dealing with classified evidence and other unusual 
factors.

Second, individuals could be transferred to an international 
tribunal, if such a tribunal exists.

Third, detainees could be returned to their native countries or, if 
that is not possible, they could be transferred to a different country.

To date, more than 500 men have been sent from Guantanamo to the 
custody of other countries. Recently, Portugal and other nations have 
suggested they would be open to taking some of the remaining detainees 
as a way to help close Guantanamo. That is good news.

If there are detainees who cannot be charged with crimes or 
transferred to the custody of another country, there is a fourth 
option. If the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National 
Intelligence agree an individual poses no security threat to the United 
States, the U.S. Government may release him. This may work, for 
example, for the Chinese Uighurs remaining at Guantanamo. I believe 
five or six Uighurs have already been released. The District Court for 
the District of Columbia has ordered that the remaining 17 Uighurs be 
released into our country. That decision has been stayed upon appeal.

Finally, for detainees who cannot be addressed in any one of the 
other four


options, the executive branch could hold them under existing 
authorities provided by the law of armed conflict.

I believe these options provide sufficient flexibility to handle the 
250 or so people now being held at Guantanamo. If the incoming Obama 
administration decides that other alternatives are needed, I hope they 
will come to the Congress, explain the specifics of the problem, and we 
will work toward a joint legislative solution.

The three other provisions in the legislation end parts of the CIA's 
secret detention and interrogation program.

Some of the details of the program are already publicly known, such 
as the use of waterboarding on three individuals some years ago. Other 
aspects remain secret, such as the other authorized interrogation 
techniques and how they are used.

There have been public allegations of multiple deaths of detainees in 
CIA custody. There was one conviction of a CIA contractor in the death 
of a detainee in Afghanistan, but other details remain classified.

But it is well known that on August 1, 2002, the Justice Department 
approved coercive interrogation techniques, including waterboarding, 
for the CIA's use. This, despite the fact that the Justice Department 
has prosecuted the use of waterboarding, and the State Department has 
decried it overseas.

The administration used what I believe to be faulty logic and faulty 
reasoning to say that waterboarding was not torture. In fact, it is.

We will never turn this sad page in our Nation's history until all 
coercive techniques are banned and are replaced with a single, clear, 
uniform standard across the U.S. Government. I cannot say that too 
strongly.

That standard established by this legislation is the interrogation 
set of protocols outlined in the Army Field Manual.

This is the field manual. It is not a casual document. It has been 
developed and revised over a period of time. It contains 19 specific 
interrogation techniques. They work for the military and operate under 
the same framework as the time-honored approach of the FBI. If the CIA 
would abide by its terms, it would work for the CIA as well.

These techniques were at the heart of former FBI Special Agent Jack 
Cloonan's successful interrogation of those involved in the 1993 World 
Trade Center bombing. They were also the tools used by Special Agent 
George Piro to get Saddam Hussein to provide the evidence that resulted 
in his death sentence.

We have powerful expert testimony that the Army Field Manual 
techniques work against terrorist suspects. The manual's use across the 
Government is supported by scores of retired generals and admirals, by 
GEN David Petraeus, and by former Secretaries of State and national 
security advisers of both parties.

Majorities in both Houses of Congress passed this provision last year 
as part of the fiscal year 2008 intelligence authorization bill. I 
offered that amendment, as I believe Senator Wyden will remember, in 
the joint conference between the House and the Senate Intelligence 
Committees, and it was added to the bill.

It sends a clear message that we do not support coercive 
interrogations. But, regrettably, the President's veto of the bill 
stopped it from becoming law.

The President-elect agrees that we need to end coercive 
interrogations and to comply strictly to the terms of the Convention 
Against Torture and the Geneva Conventions. So we look forward to 
working with him to end this sad story in our Nation's history.

The third part of this legislation is a ban on contractor 
interrogators at the CIA. Now, this is interesting. Unlike the FBI, 
where FBI agents do their own interrogations, CIA agents do not carry 
out all their interrogations. They hire contractors to do so. As 
General Hayden has testified, the CIA hires and keeps on contract 
people who are not intelligence professionals and whose sole job is to 
break detainees and get them to talk.

Now, I firmly and staunchly believe that outsourcing interrogations, 
whether coercive or more appropriate ones, to private companies is a 
way to diminish accountability.

I also believe the use of contractors leads to more brutal 
interrogations than if they were done by Government employees.

Think about it. You can have a set of interrogation practices and, 
dependent upon who administers them and the length of time they are 
administered and the combination in which they are administered, they 
can have very different effects on an individual.

There are surely areas where paid contractors make practical and 
financial sense. Interrogation, a form of collecting intelligence, is 
not one of them.

The fourth and the final provision in this legislation requires that 
the CIA and other intelligence agencies provide notification to the 
International Committee of the Red Cross, the ICRC, of their detainees. 
Following notification, the CIA will be required to provide 
International Red Cross officials with access to detainees in the same 
way the military does.

Access by the ICRC is a hallmark of international law and is required 
by the Geneva Conventions. Access to a third party and the ICRC, in 
particular, was seen by the United States in 1947 as a guarantee that 
American men and women would be protected if they were ever captured 
overseas.

I believe it still remains that guarantee.

We remain a nation at war, and credible, actionable intelligence 
remains a cornerstone of our war effort. But this is a war that will be 
won by fighting smarter, not sinking to the depths of our enemies.

Our Nation has paid an enormous price because of these 
interrogations. They cast shadow and doubt over our ideals and our 
system of justice. Our enemies have used our practices to recruit more 
extremists. Our key global partnerships crucial to winning the war on 
terror have been strained. It will take time to resume our place as the 
world's beacon of liberty and justice. But I deeply believe, and the 
cosponsors believe, this bill will put us on that path and start the 
process.

So I urge its passage. I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record the history of this legislation and the matters it contains.