# None
## `aac078b57e6ce0513be69cc9c861aba7`
`Mr. RYAN of Ohio — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. RYAN of Ohio. The bottom line is that this is not just us, or the 
Democrats or the American people. Mr. Meek, Mr. Murphy, these are the 
soldiers who are coming back.

I don't know what your personal experiences have been, but the 
soldiers in my district who have come back, and I meet them for a cup 
of coffee at the coffee shop and they talk off the record, they say, 
Get us out because this is insane. It is ridiculous. The only thing we 
all hear from the soldiers who say I want to go back, they say they 
want to go back because their buddies are over there. They are not 
going back because there is some great cause that the President has 
outlined for them. They are so far beyond that. They go back because 
their buddies are there, and God bless them. Those are the kind of 
buddies that we all want.

I think it is important that that picture that you showed, Mr. Meek, 
and what the minority party is trying to do here by not giving us 
enough votes to override a Presidential veto in the House and in the 
Senate is they are complicit in following President George W. Bush's 
foreign policy that has taken this country right off the cliff. Mr. 
Meek, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Speaker, $600 billion, thousands of lives lost, 
innocent people in Iraq getting bombed.

And here's the bottom line that I think the country needs to know and 
completely understand. This President has made the country less safe. 
There are more terrorists today that are gunning at the United States 
than ever before. Even pre-9/11, and now al Qaeda is coming out and 
saying we are stronger than we have ever been. We are as strong as we 
were on 9/11.

We have thousands and thousands of more terrorists who want a gun to 
come at the United States. There are sleeper cells I am sure in the 
United States, but when we try to pass a Homeland Security bill that 
funds 3,000 more Border Patrol agents, that puts the proper equipment 
and the proper technology on the borders to make sure that when the 
cargo is coming into the ports that those are checked, that our first 
responders have the proper equipment that they need, the Republican 
minority basically filibustered in the House and tried to stop that 
from happening.

So what we are saying here is that if we don't quickly rectify this 
problem and start making investments that we can go after Osama bin 
Laden and al Qaeda instead of this mess that we are in in Iraq, then we 
are more vulnerable as a country. And if something happens in this 
country, it lays right at the footsteps of the White House because we 
have been fighting this war. It has been ridiculous. The whole concept 
has been ridiculous. George Herbert Walker Bush said it was crazy to go 
into Iraq. This has not made any sense since the beginning. And now we 
are wasting $600 billion fighting a war in some country that we don't 
know a whole lot about instead of focusing that money on making sure 
that we get Osama bin Laden, making sure that we destroy al Qaeda. 
That's the war.

And so if al Qaeda hits the United States of America, it is because 
George Bush led us into a war in a country that didn't have any al 
Qaeda members in it.