---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `aae617996b7fad0f80f14fcde455dd48`
`Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee — 2 October 2007`

---


Mr. LINCOLN DAVIS of Tennessee. How can anyone in this Chamber or any 
American let politics, partisan politics, have a play in the 
decisionmaking as we talk about our young men and women who are willing 
to give their life and those who've given their lives on the 
battlefields in Iraq and Afghanistan?

I think that it's time. I travel my district and I tell folks that 
bipartisanship seems to have escaped us here in Washington. I talked to 
some of the folks who were here years ago and people who visited 
Washington saying that Democrats and Republicans would get together 
after a debate, whether they disagreed on certain issues, but that they 
would get together after that debate and spend time in the evening as 
friends or families would spend time together. That needs, we need to 
recapture that here in the U.S. House.

I read a book recently, or a quote in a book recently that was made 
by that great fellow from Britain, Mr. Churchill. He'd been speaking at 
Fulton, Missouri in 1951, where he gave his Iron Curtain Speech. And he 
and two or three other individuals were still on the train and still 
awake. Mr. Truman, the President, and a bunch of his cabinet and staff 
had retired for the evening. And they were talking about how the 
circumstances of our life and circumstances of our birth influenced our 
success or failures in the world that we lived in. And what Churchill 
said is that: If I were to be born again, I'd want to be born in 
America. We need to change America to where people like Churchill and 
others will be saying again: I'd like to be an American if I was born 
someplace today.

I don't think that's happening today in the world. We've got to 
change that, and I think the partisan rancor that we have here on the 
floor is prohibiting us from projecting to the rest of the world and to 
the American citizens the best of America. And I hope that this compact 
will help lead us all into being less partisan and more bipartisan on 
this floor and in America.