---
---

# HONORING THE LIFE OF STAFF SERGEANT JASON M. BUTKUS
## `aae922c0eace9c673596dc97f088b140`
`Mr. AL GREEN of Texas — 7 September 2007`

---


Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, I wish to honor the life of 
Staff Sergeant Jason M. Butkus 34, of New Jersey, who died in Bagdad, 
Iraq, in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom on August 30, 2007. Staff 
Sergeant Butkus died of injuries sustained when his mounted patrol was 
struck by a rocket-propelled grenade.

Staff Sergeant Butkus was assigned to A company, 1st Battalion, 28th 
Infantry Regiment, 1st Infantry Division, Fort Riley, Kansas. He 
enlisted in the army in 1995 and completed basic training at Fort 
Benning, Georgia. Prior to enlisting in our Nation's armed forces, 
Staff Sergeant Butkus graduated from West Milford High School in West 
Milford, New Jersey, where he was a scholar-athlete and member of the 
wrestling and track teams.

Staff Sergeant Butkus's 12-year military career took him to Fort 
Bragg, North Carolina, where he served with the 82nd Airborne Division, 
and to Alaska and South Korea. Among his many assignments over the 
years, Butkus served as an instructor at the U.S. Army Training Center 
at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Additionally, Staff Sergeant Butkus 
was commended on two separate occasions for his leadership as a 
noncommissioned officer.

Staff Sergeant Jason M. Butkus dedicated his life to protecting and 
ensuring our Nation's freedom. He served his country, his community, 
and his fellow soldiers with the determination, integrity, and courage 
that is exemplary of a true soldier. He demonstrated his courage on the 
battlefield while fighting for democracy abroad. His service is a 
shining example for future soldiers.

Staff Sergeant Jason M. Butkus is survived by a loving mother, 
father, and a 9-year-old son, Connor. Madam Speaker, I urge my 
colleagues to join me in honoring the life of Staff Sergeant Jason M. 
Butkus.
