---
---

# DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND  RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008
## `ab12634fcf0839fa75381844968763f3`
`Ms. LEE — 17 July 2007`

---


Ms. LEE. Madam Chairman, let me thank the chairman and our ranking 
member and our staff for their very diligent and brilliant work, 
really, in crafting this bipartisan bill. As a new member of the 
committee and the subcommittee, it has been a true honor to work with 
the chairman and our staff and our ranking member on this bill.

I must tell you, we had our work cut out for us because of the deep 
draconian cuts that the President proposed and because of the 
President's priorities of tax cuts for the rich and the invasion and 
occupation of Iraq. I am pleased that this bill rejects most of those 
cuts and makes the kinds of investments that recognize that an educated 
and skilled workforce and a healthy population are the backbone of our 
national security.

Let me highlight a few of these investments.

First, in the area of education, this bill invests in strengthening 
our minority-serving institutions by providing a $249.5 million for our 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities, which is an $11.4 million 
increase over FY 2007 levels, and also we increased by $4.5 million 
above FY 2007 the President's request for our Hispanic-serving 
institutions.

With regard to helping our low-income students go to college, we have 
increased TRIO and GEAR UP, which really do provide first generation 
college students the resources to enter and complete college.

With several universities in my district, we have increased the 
maximum Pell Grant, which will benefit millions of students which I 
know my district truly will benefit from.

On the issue of economic opportunity and a trained, skilled 
workforce, this bill reverses deep cuts in workforce training and 
requires the Secretary of Labor to provide a plan to address the huge 
dramatic disparities in unemployment in the African American and other 
communities of color.

We have increased, actually, by $100 million the Ryan White CARE Act, 
which, of course, is our HIV and AIDS funding.