# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS,  VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007
## `ab22a862e1180c5c0135f24c20c43f79`
`Mr. CARDOZA — 22 March 2007`

---


Mr. CARDOZA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this rule and 
the underlying bill.

It is the responsibility of this Congress, ladies and gentlemen, to 
demand accountability from this President and insist on concrete 
results from the Iraqi Government. Ladies and gentlemen, our troops are 
laying their lives on the line every single day. The least we can do is 
demand and require Iraqi accountability. This bill embraces that 
responsibility and sets the stage for handing over control of security 
of Iraq to the Iraqis.

It is also the responsibility of this Congress to provide our troops 
with the resources they need to do their jobs. And let there be no 
confusion. This bill provides full funding for our men and women in 
uniform, who continue to serve the country with great courage and 
dedication.

This bill also provides $1.7 billion in new funding for veterans' 
health care, something that is direly needed. The state of veterans' 
health care in America is in crisis, and our troops deserve better.

In addition, this bill will help us refocus our efforts on those who 
attacked us on September 11 by increasing funding for the war against 
al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.

It is deeply troubling to me that this war in Iraq has undermined our 
efforts to address the urgent threats in the war on terror. After 
failing to kill Osama bin Laden when we had the chance at Tora Bora, 
the administration turned its attention to Iraq, allowing the Taliban 
to regain lost ground in Afghanistan.

Finally, Mr. Speaker, our goals in Iraq must reflect reality. For far 
too long Congress served as nothing more than a rubber stamp for this 
President's disastrous policy in Iraq. Those days, Mr. Speaker, are 
over. Iraq has descended into a bloody civil war that cannot be 
resolved by the American military. Even our military commander in Iraq, 
General Petraeus, has said there is no military solution to this 
conflict.

The Sunni-Shia divide goes back 1,400 years. America alone cannot 
reverse 14 centuries of division and hate.

I support the rule, and I support the underlying bill.