# ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
## `ab2e6390dc8866a04e82c3322bbee68c`
`Mr. HUNTER — 15 March 2007`

---


Mr. HUNTER. I thank the gentleman.

I am going to speak a little bit during our section on this bill, but 
I just wanted to invite the majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, to come back 
down to the floor and to talk a little bit about the statement that he 
just made to the effect that there hasn't been any oversight over the 
last several years.

I am reminded of our teams that left the Armed Services Committee, 
went out to the companies that were up-armoring Humvees, started to 
move that schedule to the left, that means getting those Humvees 
quicker to the troops; and when they were told that there was a steel 
shortage, moving to the steel mills, finding out what the problem was. 
When they were told it might be a problem with too many shifts or not 
enough shifts with union employees, meeting with union employees, 
getting those shifts put on line, getting that steel produced, getting 
it to the Humvee factories and moving it out to the field.

I am also reminded of the times when we moved ahead quickly with what 
the gentleman has criticized as sole-source contracts when our troops 
in the field didn't have any dismounted jammers. That means the ability 
to stop an electronic signal that fires off a roadside bomb that hurts 
our troops. This committee moved quickly to give the Secretary of 
Defense the ability to waive all acquisition and competition 
regulations so you could do one thing, get equipment that protects our 
troops to the battlefield quicker. And we did that in terms of the 
first dismounted jammer that we produced, something that a marine or a 
GI could carry on a patrol that would keep a bad guy from detonating a 
roadside bomb that could kill him or his squad. Using this new system 
instead of the old system, we were able to, R&D, build in the United 
States and move into the warfighting theater 10,000 jammers for our 
troops within 70 days.

Now, the system that the gentleman is wedded to and loves so much, 
the slow system, the system in which you have interminable appeals, in 
which you have competitions that take months and months, sometimes 
years, is now working on the next generation of portable jammer. It has 
been a year, and we don't have that jammer fielded yet for troops in a 
portable fashion.

So I would just say to the gentleman who has been criticizing the 
contractor corps, 389 American contractors have been killed in this war 
so far, in this war against terror. They are great people, probably 
some of them from the gentleman's district. And the idea that he is 
trying to offer to this body, which I think is smart enough to reject 
that idea, that somehow there was no oversight in the theater, and by 
making these fairly minor changes, and these are fairly minor changes, 
we marked them up, they are nips and tucks in the oversight system. 
Somehow the judgment of the thousands of people who oversee our 
contracts around the world will now go from bad to good. That is 
obviously in great error. In fact, the same people are in place 
administering contracts; the same people are risking their lives in 
Iraq and Afghanistan to


support our warfighters. And by and large, they are doing an excellent 
job.

And we are going to get into later, into the added restrictions that 
the majority has placed on people who are participating in contract 
decisions, participating in a broad category called ''administering'' 
and the vagueness that attaches to that that might make a person 
civilly liable if they walk into the wrong meeting at the wrong time 
and they are ultimately prosecuted or fined civilly for making that 
mistake.

You know, we have great members of our staffs in the Armed Services 
Committee and indeed in all the committees in the House of 
Representatives. We shouldn't put a more onerous burden on the people 
that work in the rest of government than we would put on our own staff.

And I would say to my colleagues, one thing you have got to have when 
you have penalties, whether they are civil or criminal, that attach to 
action, you better define the action and you better define it clearly 
enough that staff members know exactly what they are doing and know 
exactly where the line is so they don't cross that line.

And let me just finish by saying that the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. Hoyer), who I consider to be a friend, has done a real disservice 
to the great men and women who serve in a contracting capacity for this 
country by implying that somehow they haven't been doing their job and 
somehow the committees of this Congress have not been doing their job 
in this war against terror.

I thank my friend from Virginia for yielding me a couple of minutes.