---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ab3727e36efba67e244995c6f9a0ae74`
`Mr. CLYBURN — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. CLYBURN. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the debate we join today is essentially over the matter 
of sending 20,000 more American troops into Iraq. Over the past 2 days, 
some deeply felt sentiments have been expressed in this Hall by some 
patriotic and honorable Americans from all walks of life and on both 
sides of the aisle.



And I respect and appreciate the intensity of those feelings.



If this were the only issue, if the matter were only a matter of 
troop strength and numbers, then the issue would lend itself to 
military and strategic solutions and we would not be having this 
debate.

That is not the real issue, however. That is not the reason that 
every Member of this Congress is being granted the opportunity to speak 
on this issue. No, my fellow Members of Congress, the real issue we are 
addressing today is not that simple. The real issue goes to the very 
heart of our American democracy.

Last November the American people voted for a change in leadership. 
They did so overwhelmingly because they want a new direction in Iraq. 
The American people also voted for a new Congress, because they had 
lost faith in the old one. As a Congress, we had lost our footing, and 
as a result, our Nation lost its way on the international stage.

I believe that last November's call for a new direction in Iraq is 
also rooted in our lost faith in those who are leading that nation.

We were stung when Iraqi Prime Minister al-Maliki seemed to offer 
amnesty to Iraqi insurgents that killed Americans.

We have been robbed by the disappearance of billions of dollars sent 
to Iraq in good faith to help build the country.

We have been deceived by the promise of trained Iraqi police forces 
who should be prepared to provide law and order for their country, but 
instead ally themselves with insurgents.

I traveled with some of you to Iraq last Memorial Day, and enjoyed 
what I thought was one of the best meetings of the trip with the Iraqi 
Speaker of the Council of Representatives. The optimism I felt 
following that meeting was destroyed when, just days after our return 
home, I heard the Iraqi Speaker denigrating American efforts in his 
country.

We in the new leadership of Congress do not stand here as defeatists 
and not as opponents of this Nation's best interest. Only fools could 
reach that kind of conclusion from this discussion. We stand here today 
to say there is a victory to be achieved, but it is not a military 
conquest.

The victory we seek is earned through the restoration of America's 
role as peacemaker, not warmonger. It begins with the restoration of 
this Congress, as the deliberative arbiter and representative of the 
best interest of the American people. It begins with the understanding 
and acceptance of this Congress as a full partner in the future of this 
activity.

Many of us have seen firsthand and witnessed firsthand the realities 
of our presence in Iraq. Many of us have informed ourselves as fully as 
possible on the complexity of the problems we face. Many of us have 
agonized over the dangers and hazards which lie ahead, no matter which 
direction we take. We do not take these steps lightly.

Now we stand ready to create new paths to new victories. We stand 
ready to initiate the kind of victories, which will restore America's 
respect around the world and self-confidence here at home.

We cannot achieve this by military might, but by diplomacy. The need 
for a stable Iraq is not just an American interest, it is a regional 
and global concern.

Iraq's neighbors must be brought to the table. American troops must 
disengage from the Red Zone and redeploy to the outskirts of Iraq where 
they can remain at the ready and not serve as targets for insurgents.

The best way for the Iraqi Government to gain the trust of the 
American people is for them to step up and take control of their 
country's security.

We say today that the victories we seek are real victories, permanent 
victories, victories of a Nation which still believes that the voice of 
the people is our final and best judgment.

With this debate, we are taking steps to regain our footing as a 
Congress and chart a new way forward on the international stage.

I am hopeful this debate will not only be heard, but will be accepted 
as the moment at which America turned its face toward a triumph of 
enormous proportions, a triumph for peace and a triumph for democracy 
everywhere