---
---

# MEJA EXPANSION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007
## `ab46528ea3e4826b9568a37dbdb46d31`
`Mr. UDALL of Colorado — 3 October 2007`

---


Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Madam Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 
2740, the MEJA Expansion and Enforcement Act. This bill would increase 
accountability for the actions of the estimated 180,000 contractors now 
working in Iraq.

The September 16 incident in Iraq--in which 17 Iraqis died when 
Blackwater security contractors were accused of shooting at civilians 
indiscriminately--is only the latest in a string of such incidents 
involving Blackwater. This week a House Committee reported that 
Blackwater guards had engaged in 195 shooting incidents since early 
2005, and in over 80 percent of those incidents, the Blackwater guards 
fired first. Several guards testified that Blackwater employees fired 
more often than the report states.

The good news is that the Defense Department, the State Department, 
and the FBI have all undertaken investigations and are viewing the 
September 16 incident more seriously than they have viewed other such 
incidents in the past--perhaps because of the Iraqi government's threat 
to ban Blackwater from the country.

But this incident highlights the many problems with private security 
contractors in Iraq. Contracting out inherently governmental security 
functions to private security firms is yet another example of the 
excessive outsourcing that has gone on in the Bush administration--and 
the billions in contract costs and lack of accountability that have 
followed as a result.

Initially these contractors were brought in to fulfill a temporary 
need, but now that Blackwater and other private firms are very much 
part of the fabric of the U.S. occupation of Iraq, we need to ensure 
that they are held accountable for their actions on the job.

One of Ambassador Paul Bremer's last actions as head of the Coalition 
Provisional Authority was to issue Order 17, which states that private 
contractors working for the United States or coalition governments in 
Iraq are not subject to Iraqi law. But as we have found, it's not clear 
to what degree they are subject to U.S. law either.

That's why the law needs to be clarified and expanded. The MEJA 
Expansion and Enforcement Act amends the Military Extraterritorial 
Jurisdiction Act to ensure that all contractors working in war zones--
not just those working for the Department of Defense--are accountable 
under U.S. criminal law, and mandates that the FBI enforce MEJA by 
investigating and prosecuting offenses.

The point of this legislation is not simply to penalize those private 
security contractors who act as though they are above the law, though 
that would be the direct effect of this bill. The point is also to 
ensure that the actions of these contractors don't jeopardize their own 
safety and the safety of our military men and women in Iraq, who do 
operate under strict rules of engagement and who are held accountable 
for their actions.

Madam Chairman, I don't mean to diminish the risks faced by these 
contractors day in and day out. I understand that they are often forced 
to make split-second decisions that can mean life or death for 
themselves and for those around them. But as the events of September 16 
have shown, the repercussions of these decisions can be far-reaching. 
There must be accountability and consequences for decisions made--
whether in the middle of a war zone or under other circumstances. 
Private security contractors are not entitled to immunity from our 
laws. That's why I will support this bill today.