# None
## `ab50d964271069fc2d4d209534d5240f`
`Mr. POMEROY — 18 December 2007`

---


Mr. POMEROY. I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I hold this picture of Major Alan Johnson and his wife Victoria and 
their daughter Megan. Alan Johnson lost his life last January 26 in 
service to our country in Iraq. Major Johnson had served in the 
National Guard and the Army Reserve for 26 years. Additionally, he had 
a civilian job. He was still in the public sector. He was sergeant of 
the Corrections Department of Yakima County in the State of Washington, 
shift supervisor, one of the largest jails in the State of Washington.

You can imagine how awful the surprise for Victoria Johnson, deep in 
her grief of losing her husband, to learn that his pension in the State 
of Washington was treated as though, on the day he left on his 
deployment, he quit work. They offered only return of the amounts he 
had paid into the pension plan. Now, if he had been an active 
Washington State employee, she would have received a lifetime annuity 
benefit. But the law didn't provide for that, and her circumstance has 
alerted us to a loophole that must be addressed.

Legislation introduced by Congressman Doc Hastings and me, the HEROES 
Act, addresses this flaw in our law, a law that presently allows for 
reintegration of pension benefits for our returning soldiers. This will 
also mean that should they lose their life in service to our country 
during their deployment, they are treated as though their life was lost 
while a fully employed participant in the pension plan.

This is desperately necessary. Do it because it is right. Do it for 
the memory of Major Alan Johnson.