---
---

# NATO FREEDOM CONSOLIDATION ACT OF 2007
## `ab77a2148bb00569542755778eab3a22`
`Mr. GILLMOR — 6 March 2007`

---


Mr. GILLMOR. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding and 
also for her support of this resolution. I am very pleased to join with 
my colleague, John Tanner, in supporting this resolution.

NATO is our most successful military alliance, maybe the most 
successful military alliance in history. It won the Cold War, and it is 
also providing security now in many other areas of the world that are 
outside the exact geographical footprint of the NATO countries. For 
example, as Mr. Tanner pointed out, there are troops in the Balkans. 
There are NATO troops in Afghanistan where they are carrying the fight. 
Many of those NATO allies have had troops also in Iraq.

Very shortly after NATO was created in 1949, there was another group 
called the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to keep a close liaison between 
the North Atlantic Council, which is NATO, and the parliaments of those 
countries. Mr. Tanner and I have had the opportunity to represent the 
United States on that organization for I think a little over 10 years, 
and it has been a very valuable organization from the point of view of 
the United States. We have both had the opportunity at different times 
to serve as vice president of it and as chairman of the Economic and 
Security Committee, and Mr. Tanner now leads our delegation to that 
group.

One of the things that I think is important about that when we go, as 
Republicans and Democrats, we seem to quit being Republicans and 
Democrats when we get outside of the United States. I would say when we 
meet with our European allies, the only way they know which party we 
belong to is when they ask us, because we speak with one voice.

But many of the nations on the other side of the Cold War east of the 
Iron Curtain are now members of NATO, and they are some of the 
strongest and most enthusiastic members. As recently as 2004, seven new 
countries were added, all of them Warsaw countries, bringing the NATO 
membership to 26: Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, 
Slovakia, and Slovenia.

I want to point out that NATO is not a club you just join. You have 
to earn membership in NATO. It is a military alliance. You have to meet 
the criteria, and you have to contribute your part to that military 
strength in order to be a member. As long as the new members meet those 
commitments, NATO will continue to be a strong alliance and one of the 
strongest forces for peace, stability, and democracy in the world.