---
---

# U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT,
## `ab79fc59a1ebb6ae8c8c470c8ccc96ba`
`Mr. EMANUEL â€” 23 March 2007`

---


Mr. EMANUEL. Mr. Speaker, today this Congress, the 110th Congress, 
faces an historic vote, a vote to truly change the direction of the 
Iraqi conflict.

Let us review the cost America has borne in 4 years: 3,200 lives have 
been lost, 25,000 of our citizens have been injured, and nearly a half 
a trillion dollars have been spent, and America's reputation around the 
world has been sullied.

And under the President's leadership, his Iraqi policy comes down to 
something very simple: more troops, more money, more time, more of the 
same. That is it.

Now, there is a lot of rhetoric going around. We fund our troops. You 
fund the troops. There is one fundamental difference: We require the 
Iraqis to bear responsibility for Iraq, and you provide them and the 
President another blank check for another year. And that is the 
fundamental difference, whether you will bring accountability and 
responsibility to the Iraqis to stand up for Iraq.

Now, some bemoan and say we are micromanaging. I would say to you, 
you rubber-stamped 4 years of mismanagement. Not enough troops, not a 
plan for the occupation and elimination of the Iraqi Army has brought 
us in from in search of WMD to policing a sectarian civil war.

And when you talk, as the President said on January 10, that he wants 
the Iraqis to meet his benchmarks, but you don't have any benchmarks or 
any accountability for Iraq, I can only say one thing, as we say in 
Chicago, ''You're all hat and no cattle.''

It is time, after 4 years and an unbelievable cost across America, 
borne mostly by our troops and their families and our military, that we 
ask the Iraqis to do for Iraq what they have asked us to do for them 
for 4 years, and that is to be accountable for their own future.

And I am proud that we have finally done something. We will fund the 
troops, and we will also demand that Iraq stand up for Iraq's future 
and stop leaning on America alone.

And we have done something that is so important that has been missing 
in this policy, and that is not only a new direction, but fundamentally 
bringing the responsibility and accountability to the Iraqis, which is 
why many in the Armed Forces are happy we are forcing Iraqis to do for 
Iraq's future what they have asked us to do, which is stop policing 
their civil war, but demand accountability, bring a new direction to 
this, because after 4 years, more troops, more money, more time is only 
rubber-stamping more of the same.