---
---

# IMPACT OF THE WAR IN IRAQ
## `ab8ef91a2f2485882c286fcfed7835b8`
`Mr. LAUTENBERG — 9 January 2007`

---


Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, this morning I rise to discuss the 
terrible situation we see in Iraq. While home in New Jersey over these 
last few days, I was often approached by constituents on the street and 
there was one topic that would come into the conversation almost 
immediately, when people said: Senator, when are we going to get our 
troops out of the crossfire in Iraq?

It is a great question, but the answer is certainly not clear.

Our constituents back home understand that President Bush has totally 
mishandled the diplomatic and strategic parts of the Iraq mission and 
our troops are the ones who are caught in the middle--caught in the 
middle of an ethnic civil war between Sunnis and Shiites. From my home 
State of New Jersey, we have already lost 74 people in Iraq; nationwide 
the total is quite clear--over 3,000 have lost their lives, and there 
are over 23,000 wounded with injuries that could disable them for the 
rest of their lives.

To make matters worse, a disproportionate amount of the burden of 
this conflict has fallen to Guard and Reserve troops. In fact, in early 
2005, the National Guard and the Reserves made up nearly half of the 
fighting force in Iraq, people who were to be called up when 
emergencies arose. The Reserves were not there primarily to be a 
replacement for long-term combat duty. This administration decided 
early on that their agenda for the military was to shrink the size of 
our Active Forces. We all heard that. ''We will get it down to being 
lean and mean, and increase reliance on contractors for support.'' If 
it were not so tragic, it would be a joke.

Now we see, in practice, the Bush long-term military plan has been a 
disaster. We do not have enough active troops. We are relying way too 
much on the Guard and Reserve. And contractors such as Halliburton have 
been wasting taxpayer dollars right and left.

The proof of this waste was a fine, levied against Halliburton, of 
$60 million at one time for overcharges for the care and feeding of our 
troops. We continue to hear of irresponsible behavior of contractors 
serving our needs in Iraq. Mismanagement of all forms has been a 
hallmark of Defense Department supervision.

At every turn, this President has made terrible judgments. Tomorrow 
we are going to hear another decision by President Bush. Why should the 
American people trust him to understand what he is getting us into? We 
heard the President say, ''Bring 'em on,'' one of the most disingenuous 
statements ever made by a President. I served in Europe during World 
War II, and I can tell you that we never wanted to hear a Commander in 
Chief taunting the enemy from the comforts of the White House. Asking 
more of the enemy to show their faces? We didn't want to see them at 
all.

We saw the President's foolish display of bravado on the Aircraft 
Carrier Abraham Lincoln when he declared, ''Mission accomplished.'' 
What a careless statement the President of the United States made that 
day, over 3/1/2/ years ago. Mission accomplished? That meant the job 
was finished, as far as most people were concerned. But it was not 
through.

While the President was performing in 2003, leaders were warning of a 
military crisis. General Shinseki, Army Chief of Staff, told a Senate 
Armed Services Committee that we would need to keep a large force in 
Iraq even after a war to curb ethnic tensions and provide humanitarian 
aid. General Shinseki, distinguished military leader, said we needed 
several hundred thousand troops there. His assessment was harshly 
dismissed quickly by the President and by Secretary Rumsfeld. The 
General's reality-based opinion got in the way of their ideologically 
based mission of a smaller Active-Duty Force.

In the aftermath of the initial invasion, President Bush has made the 
wrong move almost every time. Now we have walked so deep into the swamp 
in Iraq that just adding more guns is not going to work. This so-called 
surge is another bad idea--slogans, such as ''cut and run'' have to be 
matched against the reality of ''stay and die.''

President Bush likes to say: I do what the generals tell me to. But 
now we know that is not the case. The generals have been extremely 
candid about their view of the surge idea. They think it is wrong. Now 
we are hearing that the President intends to give another $1 billion to 
Iraqi reconstruction projects. We want to fund every cent that our 
troops need for their safety, for their return, for their health care, 
for their well-being, but sending more money down the rat hole is not 
going to do it. It is being diverted from programs at home, such as 
education, stem cell research, health care for all our people, to name 
a few, and the taxpayers of New Jersey do not want their money used to 
build another civilian project in Iraq that is going to get blown up 
the next day. Before we look to spend more money on civil projects in 
Iraq, let's get the diplomatic situation straightened out.

The American people want to see us leave Iraq with some hope for 
stability in our absence. That will require President Bush to use all 
of the diplomatic tools at his disposal to force a dramatic change of 
course for the Iraqi Government. The current Government in Iraq has to 
take real steps to disarm the Shiite militias and show the Sunnis that 
they will actually be empowered in the Iraqi Government. If we do not 
do that, we could send a million troops to Iraq tomorrow, but it would 
not make a difference. If the Sunnis feel the Iraqi Government has 
nothing to offer and Prime Minister al-Maliki doesn't stop the Shiite 
militias, the bloodbath will continue.

I hope the leaks about the President's plan are wrong and that he 
will announce tomorrow a better course, a course that will allow us to 
exit Iraq but with real hope of a more stable society left behind.

I conclude that with the history of planning for this war and the 
statements coming from the White House and the leadership of the 
Defense Department I ask: How can we trust their judgment with a new 
plan to put more people in harm's way without some idea of when this 
will end? It is not a good idea and we ought to get a better 
explanation from the President and the Defense Department as to what 
might the outcome be if their plan succeeds.

I yield the floor.
