---
---

# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ab90ecd8ccaea052235cff66e78d95a3`
`Mr. BOUCHER — 15 February 2007`

---


Mr. BOUCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the resolution, and I 
hope that its adoption by the House will send yet another powerful 
message that a change in the direction of our Iraq policy is required.

Sending an additional 21,000 troops into Baghdad only serves to put 
more American forces in harm's way. The troop increase will not bring 
long-term stability, it will not halt the sectarian strife which has 
plunged Iraq into a civil war, it will do nothing to speed the day when 
U.S. forces can hand over the mission to the Iraqis and come home. But 
there is a better way.

Our Virginia colleague Frank Wolf originated the formation of the 
commission that was chaired by former Secretary of State James Baker 
and by Lee Hamilton, who for years, with distinction, chaired the 
Foreign Relations Committee in this House. I commend Congressman Wolf 
for his foresight and for the public service that he provided to our 
Nation when he originated the formation of the Baker-Hamilton 
Commission. That commission was bipartisan. It was composed of our most 
experienced foreign policy experts, spanning administrations of both 
Republican and Democratic Presidencies. Its recommendations were 
unanimously presented by the members of the Commission. They embody the 
collective wisdom of these highly experienced Americans for the best 
course that our Nation can take for a new and more promising direction 
in Iraq.

At the core of their proposals was a bold recommendation: that the 
United States begin a dialogue with Iraq's neighboring countries about 
a way to achieve regional stability and, most particularly, stability 
in Iraq.

Iran, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia all have influence with the various 
warring factions in Iraq. Iran and Syria in particular have a strong 
interest in a more normal relationship with the United States. All of 
these countries have a long-term interest in a stable Iraq. The Baker-
Hamilton Commission's direction for a U.S.-led negotiation among these 
nations is the only real option we have left in order to achieve under 
United States guidance a peaceful Iraq. President Bush has rejected 
this recommendation. He has acted, in my view, very unwisely.

More United States troops are not the answer. Blind faith in the 
Iraqi Prime Minister with his ties to the Shia militia leader, al-Sadr, 
is not the answer. A military solution standing alone is not the 
answer. The only path to success lies in diplomacy and accepting the 
wise counsel of the Baker-Hamilton Commission.

Finally, the administration decided to try real diplomacy in North 
Korea, and it is working. It is also the only hope we have for 
stability in Iraq.