---
---

# None
## `ab90c3a59bfacff0b597e98aca94d7d7`
`Mr. SESSIONS â€” 28 October 2009`

---


Mr. SESSIONS. I appreciate the gentleman, Mr. King, for not only 
yielding me time to talk about our former colleague and the great 
Secretary of the Army, John McHugh, but I also thank the gentleman for 
his leadership on behalf of the State of New York. He really cochaired 
that responsibility and leadership in so many respects with the 
gentleman John McHugh.

As we see John's friends who have come to the floor this evening to 
talk about this great man John McHugh from New York--our former 
colleague, the gentleman from the 24th District of New York--and as his 
colleagues come to the floor to tout the attributes of service and 
respect and admiration that we have for John McHugh, I think it's 
important to note and to amplify how we believe that the men and women 
of the United States Army and every person who wears the uniform of the 
United States military will recognize this man who is from our body--a 
man who in service to his congressional district, to his State and to 
his country embodied the highest of skillsets, of personal 
accomplishment and the best wishes.

If I can for a minute, I'd like to talk about John McHugh, the man, 
as we have all taken the pleasure of doing. We just heard the gentleman 
Mr. LaTourette talk about how he worked with John McHugh on the 
Government Reform Committee. In fact, I arrived in Congress in 1997, 
and immediately found myself on the Government Reform Committee. I was 
a freshman who was eager to take part in the endeavors that lay ahead 
of us.

One of the subcommittees at that time, which I believe the gentleman 
Mr. LaTourette spoke about, was the Postal Subcommittee. The Postal 
Subcommittee had this bright, young person who was the subcommittee 
chairman. He was John McHugh, the gentleman from New York. John made 
sure, as my subcommittee chairman, that I was there at all the 
meetings--I was expected to be as a freshman--but more importantly, 
that I understood the substance and the issues that would be before us.

John took very seriously, as he always has, the duties and 
responsibilities that were there, presented to him and that he 
accepted. John made sure that I was well-versed on postal issues, 
talking about not just the compromises but the opportunities that lay 
ahead for us, making sure that the challenges were properly taken care 
of. I developed a deep and abiding relationship with John that I 
cherish even today--although, I'm sure he wants to forget a few of 
those meetings that we had that went on and on. It was all in the 
spirit of our service and in the need to make sure that we 
appropriately and properly did our duty.

I also had a chance to run across John McHugh as the left fielder for 
our baseball team. John McHugh played left field in college. John 
McHugh is a little, skinny runt who probably weighed about 115 pounds--
if he had a bat in his hand, maybe 120--but that old guy could catch 
flies out in left field. Some of the most fun activities


and times that I had here in Washington were on the baseball field in 
Alexandria. As Republicans, we would prepare for our baseball games and 
for the charity game that we do every year, Republicans against 
Democrats. John McHugh showed up every darned day. I, some days, wanted 
him not to be there because I wanted a chance to play in the ball game.

John started in left field. I didn't understand how this old guy, who 
was probably five or six years older than I am--and I was old at the 
time--could be a skinny runt with little legs that could carry him and 
how he could catch all the balls.

He was very kind to me. He showed me, really, how to dodge all of the 
mud puddles that were out in left field. That was when we had an 
amazing rain in about the year 2000, maybe '99, 2000, 2001. John had it 
down. As people across this country are hearing about this great guy 
John McHugh, John had his position down once again, and John in left 
field could walk out in the midst of all the mud that was outside 
there, play three or four innings, come back in, and not have a piece 
of dirt on him. I went out there and found the mud puddle as I was 
running, trying to catch the fly, staying up with just catching.

There were two ducks that were out there in the mud puddle in left 
field with us. John made friends with the ducks. The ducks got along 
with him, but when I went out there, I was in trouble. I remember 
diving and sliding and walking back and John just looking at me and 
laughing. He's not just a fun and kind guy. He found a way to allow me 
to play in the game. He allowed me to share in that endeavor, and we 
had a good time--always at my expense, I'm sure--but that just spoke 
volumes about the kind of man that he was early on in my career as we 
worked together.

John and I found lots of activities with each other, and John always 
included me, not just because of my thought processes of wanting to 
know what I was thinking but because of how we could work together and 
how we could make things work.

Well, when 9/11 came, Pete King, John McHugh and other members of the 
New York delegation who were hit and hit hard--Sue Kelly was in that 
group, John Sweeney and some others--really worked with members of 
other delegations to talk with them about the needs of New York and 
about what we needed to do. John McHugh was a strong advocate. He felt 
very strongly about the men and women who would be called also into 
harm's way as a result of 9/11. He understood firsthand those families.

John, as we know, ended up taking some 10 visits to Iraq and 4 visits 
to Afghanistan. He sat on the West Point or the U.S. Military Academy 
Board of Visitors. He knew that I went to the graduations at West Point 
and enjoyed them immensely. He knows that I have had and that virtually 
every Member of this body has had several young men or young women who 
are students at the Academy from all over this Congress and from all 
over this country. John had a strong sense of responsibility about 
believing in the mission and purpose, and knew that I felt that way, 
and looked at other Members the same way.

He was a co-Chair of the House Army Caucus. He understood firsthand 
not just the men and their missions but their families and their lives 
after coming back home. He spoke very passionately, he and I, about the 
needs of our returning vets who sometimes still need more in additional 
help. He has indicated that he will go and take this job. He is 
fulfilling this duty to do his best for the men and women of the United 
States Army--a branch of a service that he not only strongly identifies 
with but has worked with in his congressional duties.

John McHugh is a friend. He is a friend of anyone who has balance 
about trying to solve problems. John McHugh is a kind man. Many times 
in the midst, when lots of us are hurried in making decisions, John 
McHugh listens to the facts of the case. John McHugh has in this body 
exemplified himself. He has stood out as a person who can be trusted, 
who can make a wise decision and who cares about other people.

So, tonight, as this body honors the gentleman John McHugh, I would 
say to the men and women of the United States Army, to the spouses, to 
the children, and to the families that John McHugh is taking the place 
of Pete Geren. Pete Geren grew to have a strong reputation that the 
Army could count on, not only in discipline and leadership but in doing 
the right thing. John McHugh is that kind of man also. John McHugh will 
lead with honor and distinction. John McHugh will also do the right 
thing.

So, for our colleague who was tapped by the President of the United 
States to go and lead, for our colleague who worked with us day in and 
day out and year after year with honor and distinction, for our 
colleague John McHugh who will leave this body, knowing that he still 
had fight left in him, to go and still lead for the best, for this 
young man John McHugh, who has lots of friends here who wish him not 
only the very best but who want to see him again, for our friend John 
McHugh, who is serving with distinction and who will do well, we say:

John McHugh, we thank you. We thank you for who you are and for what 
you are. Don't change. Sure, get better, but go ahead, and do just what 
you've done all these years. Do this for the right reason.

The gentleman from New York, as I go to conclude here, I would like 
to read something which was part of John McHugh's statement as he left 
this body.



He said in July, I have been so struck how these heroes facing pain 
and loss and uncertainty asked one question, What else can I do to 
serve? He challenged himself when he said, We can ask no less of 
ourselves.

I would say to the men and women of the United States Army, you have 
a kind, gracious leader who will care about you. You have a man that 
understands that it is you who will be asked to sacrifice, but you will 
also have a man that will never ask you to do anything that he does not 
honestly believe in that is in the best interest of freedom and 
opportunity in the United States of America.

And as we hear these stories of bravery and heroism, as we see these 
men suffer, as we see their families well up, not only in pride, but 
also in fear for their families, we would offer one of our own from 
this body to say, We have confidence that you will lead, you will lead 
to the best; and we're going to miss you, but we're very, very proud of 
you.

From my left field buddy from congressional baseball, good luck with 
the New York Yankees against the Philadelphia Phillies, because you 
guys are going to need it.