---
---

# COLLEGE COST REDUCTION AND ACCESS ACT--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `ab9abe998cdc36fd1c07f029fa64e07e`
`Mr. REID — 7 September 2007`

---


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that on Monday, 
September 10, at 10 a.m., the Senate proceed to executive session to 
debate en bloc Executive Calendar Nos. 238, 239, and 241; that there be 
60 minutes for debate on the nominations equally divided between 
Senators Leahy and Specter or their designees; that at 11 a.m., the 
Senate proceed to vote on Calendar No. 238, followed by a vote on 
Calendar No. 239, followed by a vote on Calendar No. 241; that the 
motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, the President be 
immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate then return 
to legislative session; that Senator Barrasso be recognized to speak in 
morning business--as a side note, this is his maiden speech in the 
Senate--for up to 30 minutes, following which the Senate begin 
consideration of H.R. 3074, the Transportation appropriations bill.

I will also say, while the distinguished Republican leader is 
present, we are going to complete the Transportation bill next week. 
The last vote next week will be at about 1 o'clock, no later than 1 
o'clock because of the beginning of the Jewish holiday at sundown.

I have talked with the distinguished Republican leader, and we have 
some items we are going to look to on September 17 and 18. On September 
17, there will be no votes. On September 18, there will be votes. We 
are going to try to develop--we have not done it yet; I have had a 
number of conversations with the Republican leader--as to how we 
proceed on the Iraq matters. We need to finish the Defense 
authorization bill. We want to make sure there is time to adequately 
debate that measure. But we also want to again address the Iraq 
situation. We have people, as I speak, trying to work out something 
that will be different from what we have done in the past. I hope that 
can be done, something on a bipartisan basis. We still may have to do 
the partisan matters. But, hopefully, Senators working together can 
come up with some way we can proceed on that issue. We are not there 
yet.

I want to alert everyone that during the week of September 17, we are 
going to have to do a lot of work on Defense authorization and also the 
Iraq matters. We hope we can complete the bill that week. Again, we are 
not at a point where we are near able to work out a unanimous consent 
agreement on that measure, but I have kept the minority advised about 
every step we have taken in this regard.