# WALL STREET REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2009
## `aba1aed1a33cb12f470d139a1012460e`
`Mr. NEUGEBAUER â€” 9 December 2009`

---


Mr. NEUGEBAUER. I thank the gentleman.

I think I want to go back to what really is at stake here and that's 
choices for the people that borrow money in this country. Back in the 
fall of last year and in the spring of this year, we were working on 
legislation that the other side brought forward for credit cards, and 
everybody has got a credit card story that they have had a bad 
experience. We passed this big credit card bill.

When we were talking and debating that bill on this very floor, we 
told the American people be careful here, because what they are saying 
is they don't trust you to make your own choices, and they are going to 
tinker with the credit card industry. We said, you know what's going to 
happen? Interest rates are going to go up. Credit limits are going to 
go down, payments are going to go up. And what happened?

Rates went up, credit limits went down, and payments went up. Who did 
that affect? Well, it affected families. More importantly, we said it's 
going to hurt small businesses because a number of small businesses 
across this country use credit cards to help with their cash-flow needs 
of their company.

Now we are here tonight talking about the rest of the credit market. 
What's going to happen here, one of the gentlemen, several gentlemen 
have brought up predatory lending.

Well, let me talk about a predatory loan. How about this young 
businessman that needs to buy another truck and some tools for his 
plumbing company, and he goes to his banker and he says, you know what, 
I need an interest-only loan for 12 months until I get my business up 
and going and I get my new employee generating the revenue, and then I 
want to convert over to another payment plan at the end of 12 months.

The banker says, well, I would love to do that; I have done that for 
you in the past. But you know what, we have got this new czar, or 
czarina, who is in charge of determining what kinds of financial 
products I can offer, so I can't do that.

So what happens? That plumber can't expand, can't buy another truck, 
can't hire another employee. Those are the consequences of this.

Where we are headed in this is that we are going to let the Federal 
Government tell you, because you are not smart enough, according to my 
colleagues on the other side, to determine what kind of mortgage is 
appropriate for your family; that you are not smart enough to determine 
what kind of car loan is appropriate; what kind of student loan is 
appropriate for you and your family as you are trying to send your 
daughter or your son to school; that the overdraft privileges that your 
bank has been extending to you in the past, but because of these new 
regulations and the interference of government, you may not be extended 
those, or those charges may go up.

How about that person that wants to experience the American Dream and 
wants to go start their own business and needs a specialized financing 
package to be able to get that business off the ground and so initially 
has a small amount of capital.

The banker is going to take a larger risk, and so he is going to have 
to price the cost of that loan higher, and he is reluctant to do that 
because he might be making a predatory loan according to this new czar, 
this new agency that's going to determine what kind of financial 
products the American people get to have access to in the future.

You know what, Madam Chairman, I still have faith in the American 
people because this Nation wasn't built because of its government. This 
Nation was built because of its people, people that took risks and 
chances and worked hard and went out and did different things in 
different ways and made things happen, and they didn't conform to what 
was the standard.


You see, when we start standardizing everything, we begin to limit 
the potential for success, and we limit failure, and there is no reward 
for those who do the extra and do special. That's not what this Nation 
was built on.

I just recently over the weekend came back from Afghanistan, where 
our young men and women are doing remarkable things in the name of 
security, peace, and liberty for our country. You would have thought 
they would want to talk about, you know, thank you for the President's 
commitment to additional troops; but this sergeant came up to me as I 
was about to walk out and go get on a plane. He said, Congressman, you 
know what really scares me? It's not these Afghani Taliban people. What 
really scares me is what you all are doing to our country. Every time I 
turn around you are spending money we don't have. The government is 
getting into the car business. The government is buying banks. The 
government is limiting my choices.

You are leaving a legacy, and I am over here fighting for a country. 
Quite honestly, I look back home and I am not sure the Congress is not 
destroying our country by taking away the liberties and the freedoms 
that I am fighting for.

That's the reason tonight and tomorrow, whenever we vote on this, we 
need to defeat this so that we can preserve liberty and freedom for 
this country and trust the American people because the American people 
are smart enough to make their own decisions.