---
---

# APPROVING THE RENEWAL OF IMPORT RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN THE BURMESE  FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2003
## `aba3798654ae14083657970fd5b2ff07`
`Mr. DURBIN — 24 July 2007`

---


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I return to the floor to discuss the 
ongoing genocide in Darfur. Most of the discussion on the floor of the 
Senate and in Congress for the last several weeks has been about Iraq, 
and appropriately so, yet the time spent dealing with the failed policy 
in Iraq is a stark reminder of how it also distracts us from so many 
other critical issues around the world. One issue in particular is the 
4-year humanitarian tragedy in the Darfur region of Sudan.

Sadly, in front of the global community's eyes, we have witnessed 
unspeakable horror--mass killings, rape, torture, the torching of homes 
and entire villages. The estimates of death are wide ranging, from 
200,000 to 400,000. Some 2/1/2/ million people have been displaced from 
their homes, and there is a mounting refugee crisis in neighboring Chad 
and the Central African Republic.

Despite a worldwide call for action, the tragedy continues. The 
genocide in Sudan is becoming increasingly complicated and tragic. The 
violence threatens to destabilize an entire region, and without change 
there is little end in sight. Today, we have an important opportunity 
to break the cycle of violence, an opportunity that we must seize.

After years of duplicity and stalling, Sudanese President Bashir 
agreed last month to a significantly expanded joint United Nations-
African Union peacekeeping force. We have to seize that opportunity and 
seize it quickly. Unfortunately, there are already disturbing signs 
this window may be closing. Yesterday, the Washington Post covered a 
visit by President Bashir to the Darfur section of his country. 
President Bashir said that people there were ''living normal lives;'' 
that only 9,000 people had died and that ''most of Darfur is now secure 
and enjoying real peace.'' He rejected foreign intervention in the 
conflict.

This crisis has gone on long enough. Over 2 years ago, President Bush 
declared a genocide in Darfur. Secretary of State Colin Powell joined 
in that chorus. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also agreed. And 
the President said: Not on my watch--remembering the horror of Rwanda, 
where 800,000 people died in a genocide during the Clinton 
administration. President Clinton did not respond at that time, has 
regretted it ever since, and said so publicly. President Bush said the 
same thing would not happen in his administration. I have reminded the 
President now several times on the floor of the Senate and personally 
that his administration is coming to an end. If he is going to do 
anything about the crisis and genocide in Darfur, he needs to move and 
move quickly.

The need is simple: rapid deployment of a full peacekeeping force. We 
have seen this type of urgency with other peacekeeping forces, 
including last year in Lebanon, and we must act with similar speed for 
the people, the victims, suffering in Darfur.

Last week, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and I had a good 
conversation. He returned my call on the telephone and we spoke for a 
few minutes. We talked about the importance of rapidly deploying a new 
peacekeeping force and of working toward a long-term political 
settlement in this region. It is my hope that our United States 
Ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalilzad, will work closely 
with Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to make these steps a reality.

The U.N. Security Council will be meeting soon to authorize this 
force. The Security Council should be firm in its mandate and its 
timeline.

The needs are clear. The force must have sufficient resources and 
numbers. We can help. The United States has resources set aside for 
peacekeeping efforts in the world. I can't think of many more pressing 
than the genocide in Darfur. If we are not providing soldiers, we 
certainly need to be providing resources.

It must have a strong chapter VII mandate for protecting civilians, 
peacekeepers, and humanitarian workers. Some of these nongovernmental 
organizations, these humanitarian workers, have been the victims of the 
violence in Darfur. Men and women who are risking their lives to 
provide the basic necessities of life have been the targets themselves, 
for the jingaweit militia and all the violence taking place there. This 
U.N. force must have a clear command-and-control structure and firm 
timetable. It should be clear day-to-day operational instructions come 
from the United Nations. The U.N. mandate must set benchmarks and hold 
the Sudanese Government accountable for any failure to cooperate. In 
particular, there should be no room for further stalling or 
reinterpretation by the Sudanese Government. We have been blindsided 
too many times by President Bashir of Sudan, who has said so many times 
there is no problem in Darfur; you can bring in a force; no, I have 
changed my mind.

As this man has weaved back and forth, more and more innocent people 
have died and been displaced from their homes. We must match this 
peacekeeping force with a renewed diplomatic effort to bring about a 
long-term political settlement, including naming a Special 
Representative of the Secretary General to monitor implementation of a 
comprehensive peace agreement.

The force must be deployed immediately. The notion that we are going 
to do this months from now is unacceptable.

Finally, we need a long-term political settlement to match the 
peacekeeping effort. I call on the United States, the United Nations, 
and the African Union to continue intensive negotiations with all 
parties.

I also strongly urge all parties, including those representing 
nonsignatory Darfur rebel movements, to participate fully in the U.N.-
African Union-led negotiations and to tirelessly cooperate in the 
effort to bring about a political solution that will return peace and 
stability to the people of Darfur.

Those who choose not to participate leave themselves open to further 
international isolation and sanction. Each day we delay on peacekeeping 
and political settlement efforts leads to more death, more rape, more 
human suffering, more people displaced from their homes, more desperate 
refugees. Each day we delay, the crisis becomes more complex, with 
increased violence and numbers of refugees spilling over into 
neighboring countries creating burdens and instabilities there. Each 
day we delay gives President Bashir another opportunity to stall and 
back away from his commitment. Each day we delay is a further 
indictment of the global community's failure to act decisively in the 
face of genocide.

We must not wait another day. Let us not forget the major export of 
Sudan is oil. The major company in Sudan that is drilling the oil and 
exporting it is PetroChina, a company controlled by the Chinese 
Government. The Chinese need to be involved in this as well, first at 
the United Nations and then beyond.



A few weeks ago, after an article appeared in the Wall Street Journal 
written by Mia Farrow, the actress, the Chinese finally responded and 
made some overtures toward the Bashir Government, saying they had to 
act. We have not heard anything since.

It is time for the Chinese to step up. If they want to be part of 
this global community, they should stand on the side of civilized 
conduct. They should condemn the genocide in Darfur and do more.

In closing, I thank President Bush, Secretary General Ban, and U.N. 
Ambassador Khalilzad. I want them to know there is strong support in 
the Congress for swift action to field this peacekeeping force. Many of 
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have spoken out for years on 
the need to do more to halt the genocide in Darfur. We will and we must 
continue to focus this concern on doing everything we can to halt this 
genocide.

I hope we have an active voice and role in this debate in the Senate. 
Yes, we can do many things--our legislative business--but not ignoring 
the rest of the world. I hope, in the next 2 weeks, we can take action 
on the floor to adopt resolutions and to make it clear, on a bipartisan 
basis, we want the U.N. peacekeeping force to act and act quickly in 
response.

We should also be working with the Ambassadors from countries that 
are represented in the African Union, as well as those on the Security 
Council, to reassure them that the United States wants swift action. We 
need to make sure our appropriations bills reflect the need for 
resources to make this a success. As the President said more than 2 
years ago, ''Not on my watch.'' We in the Congress, we in the Senate, 
should say the same, and we should follow that statement with action.

I yield the floor.