---
---

# BLUE DOG COALITION
## `abaf2cc76c6a87ac93ab31175a005208`
`Mr. ROSS — 5 June 2007`

---


Mr. ROSS. I thank the gentleman from Indiana for his insight and the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania for his.

Mr. Speaker, if you have any comments, questions or concerns, you can 
e-mail us at BlueDog@mail.house.gov. That is BlueDog@mail.house.gov.

I am talking about House Resolution 97, providing for Operation Iraqi 
Freedom Cost Accountability. We are not just talking about a problem. 
We are trying to fix the problem. There are only 43 of us in the Blue 
Dogs, a group of conservative Democrats, and yet we already have 63 
cosponsors on this bill.

House Resolution 97 also calls for the Iraqi government and its 
people to progress towards full responsibility for internally policing 
their own country.

Recently, members of the Blue Dog Coalition worked together with 
House Armed Services Committee Chairman, Ike Skelton, to include key 
provisions of House Resolution 97 in the fiscal year 2008 National 
Defense Authorization bill. With the passage of this bill, we took the 
first step towards ensuring complete fiscal transparency in the funding 
of the war in Iraq.

The American people deserve to know that their tax dollars are being 
spent wisely and that our troops have the resources they need to 
succeed. The Blue Dogs are committed to passing legislation that 
accomplishes this goal.

Members of the Blue Dog Coalition also believe strongly that funding 
requests for the Iraq war should come through the normal appropriations 
process, as I mentioned earlier. Since 2003, the Republican-held 
Congress has been funding the war through emergency supplemental 
requests, two of them in 2003, another one in 2004 and 2005 and 2006 
and 2007. It is time we stop hiding the cost of this war. We demand 
fiscal accountability in Iraq.
