---
---

# KYRGYZSTAN
## `abb6a8cadf9c469f5f1140ef8ad21abc`
`Mr. KAUFMAN â€” 15 July 2010`

---


Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, in the last few weeks, great turmoil has 
unfolded in Kyrgyzstan. According to media reports, ethnic riots in the 
southern cities of Osh and Jalalabad have left up to 2,000 dead--309 
confirmed by the Kyrgyz Government--thousands have been injured, and 
approximately 400,000 Uzbeks have been displaced.

I am deeply concerned about ethnic clashes and ongoing tension 
between the Kyrgyz and Uzbeks, especially given reports that 
international observers have noted they are reminiscent of the 
tragedies in Bosnia and Rwanda in the 1990s. Today, the situation 
appears to have stabilized, but we cannot discount the potential for 
renewed conflict after an apparent lull, which happened in both Bosnia 
and Rwanda.

We must also not forget that what happens in Kyrgyzstan has 
implications for U.S. interests throughout central Asia. As the Senate 
noted in Resolution 566, which passed unanimously on June 25, the 
events of the past month could spark unrest across the Ferghana Valley, 
which borders Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan. Kyrgyzstan also 
plays host to a U.S. air base at Manas International Airport that 
serves as a critical supply line for NATO and U.S.-led operations in 
Afghanistan.

For these reasons, I rise today to urge the provisional government 
and all citizens of Kyrgyzstan to move ahead with the process of 
reconciliation. I would also like to commend the Obama administration 
and others in the international community--particularly the United 
Nations and Russia--who have rendered fiscal and humanitarian aid to 
the Government of Kyrgyzstan during this difficult time. The 
international community must call on all parties to refrain from 
violence, cease persecution of minorities, and explore peaceful routes 
to conflict resolution.

There is other news out of Kyrgyzstan worth noting--namely, the 
referendum held on June 27 in support of a constitution that will 
establish central Asia's first parliamentary democracy. This referendum 
was peaceful and inclusive, and I commend the provisional government 
for organizing this process. The referendum marked a historic 
opportunity to usher in a new period of democracy and stability in 
Kyrgyzstan, and the stakes are high. This is why I would like to 
highlight three areas where I hope there can be additional progress can 
be made.

Perhaps most importantly, there must be a credible investigation into 
the recent violence. One of the most important actions to take is to 
establish an investigative team that is viewed as credible by all 
sides. This investigation must ensure the perpetrators of violence are 
held accountable for their actions and initiate a process whereby all 
citizens, including ethnic Uzbeks, see themselves as sufficiently 
represented in the country's national institutions.

The interim government must also ensure a smooth transition to the 
new Constitution. This means that the Kyrgyz authorities should 
redouble efforts to prevent the escalation of violence, and observers 
must monitor the elections. The first transition of power is critical 
to the success of this democratic transition because it will set the 
baseline for all future elections. The people of Kyrgyzstan have shown 
overwhelmingly that they want democracy, and now the provisional 
government should do everything in its power to make those aspirations 
a reality.

Finally, the government must promote freedom of the press. According 
to Freedom House, in 2010, Kyrgyzstan was ranked 159th of 192 
countries. At this critical juncture, the interim government may feel 
tempted to muzzle criticism to avoid giving fodder to dissidents. But 
to do so would undermine its credibility far more than any words 
published in a free press. There is an undeniable connection between a 
population's confidence in their political system and the capacity of 
that system to ensure the free flow of information through an 
independent media. If the interim government and its successor want to 
identify the failures of previous governments in Kyrgyzstan, they need 
look no further than its abysmal record in the area of press freedom. 
To make the new constitution in Kyrgyzstan a success, the nation needs 
a truly independent media.

Mr. President, we are at an important turning point in Kyrgyzstan, 
where there is a glimmer of hope about democracy taking root in the 
future. At the same time, the potential for renewed unrest, rampant 
corruption, and curtailed freedoms could easily jeopardize recent 
progress. It is incumbent on all sides to act responsibly and to ensure 
there is not a resurgence of violence, so that the new Government of 
Kyrgyzstan can set an example of successful democracy for the region.
