---
---

# LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2010--CONFERENCE REPORT
## `abbc5a181de74c7ef7e7754eab425a1b`
`Mr. INOUYE — 30 September 2009`

---


Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise to support the Legislative Branch 
conference report, which includes a continuing resolution allowing the 
government to maintain normal operations until October 31, 2009.

I thank Chairman Nelson and Ranking Member Murkowski for their hard 
work on this bill. I believe the final product before us is fiscally 
responsible legislation that meets the essential needs of both the 
House and Senate. I applaud their efforts to urge its adoption by the 
Senate.

With regard to the continuing resolution, I note that today is 
September 30, the last day of the fiscal year. With our men and women 
in uniform fighting on two fronts, and with our economy at a critical 
stage in its recovery from the worst recession we have faced in several 
generations, it is inconceivable that we would allow for any disruption 
of the essential services provided by the Federal Government. We simply


must pass this bill today and send it to the President for his 
signature.

The continuing resolution before us is clean and does not contain any 
controversial provisions. It increases funding for our veterans health 
care services in order to meet the needs of our wounded warriors 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.

The continuing resolution increases funding for the Census Bureau to 
allow that agency to continue to ramp up its necessary activities prior 
to the 2010 census.

Mr. President, I note that the continuing resolution prohibits any 
funding for ACORN, and it extends a number of necessary authorizations.

Finally, in order to cover a budget shortfall, the continuing 
resolution allows the Postal Service to reduce by $4 billion a payment 
designed to prefund retiree health benefits.

Continuing the operations of this government should not be a partisan 
issue. I note to my colleagues that in both 2006 and 2007, the Congress 
attached a continuing resolution to an appropriations conference 
report.

In 2006, the Republican-led Congress passed the conference report and 
the attached continuing resolution by a vote of 100 to 0.

In 2007, the Democrat-led Senate passed the conference report and the 
continuing resolution by voice vote.

When I assumed the chair of the Appropriations Committee, my first 
priority was to work with my colleague and vice chair, Senator Cochran, 
to return the appropriations process to regular order. This is a tall 
order given that we did not receive the administration's budget until 
May.

Today, we have our second and third conferences scheduled with the 
House, and we expect to hold several more in the coming weeks. This 
short-term continuing resolution will give us time to consider a good 
number of appropriations bills under the regular order.

Mr. President, we have more work to do to pass all 12 bills. But I am 
proud of the committee's efforts thus far, and I look forward to 
reporting continued progress throughout the month of October.

With that, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the Legislative 
Branch conference report, which contains this short-term continuing 
resolution. I congratulate the chair and the ranking member.

I yield the floor.