---
---

# None
## `abc17205d422e63b924142bf2cf16d49`
`Mr. CONYERS — 1 July 2010`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Restoration of 
Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act which would extend emergency 
unemployment compensation


and other benefits through November 30, 2010. Our government has an 
obligation to alleviate the suffering of millions of unemployed during 
the worst recession since the Great Depression.

Today, unemployment is at alarmingly high levels where in my home 
State of Michigan it is over 13 percent. The Federal Government has 
never allowed unemployment benefits to expire when the national 
unemployment rate was above 7.2 percent. However, Republicans in the 
Senate have blocked numerous attempts to extend the benefits and even 
if today's measure passes, the Senate will adjourn, causing thousands 
more to lose benefits. Furthermore, Republicans have stopped many other 
job creating bills citing budget concerns, even though they have 
unquestioned support for indefinite war spending in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, which recently surpassed the one trillion dollar mark and 
championed tax breaks for the rich while the unemployed suffer. It 
appears the Republicans are willing to give a helping hand to every 
group except the American worker.

Mr. Speaker, the job market is in tatters and it has been found that 
for every job opening there are five applicants. We simply can no 
longer wait on extending these vital benefits. I urge my colleagues to 
support today's legislation.