# None
## `abc2f6b62341746f3b08c6c551aae106`
`Mr. CONYERS â€” 24 January 2007`

---


Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the distinguished member 
of the Rules Committee, and I rise, Madam Speaker, in some shock about 
the strong opposition to this rule and the underlying bill.

I had never thought that I would hear a reason to deny a Member of 
the House of Representatives a vote because of convenience, because of 
the number of revotes that have occurred and whether or not the 
switched votes that took place were because of whether Delegates were 
voting or not. This is an incredible kind of an argument.

Today I commend the House leadership for bringing to the floor a 
small attempt to give our Delegates a voice in the House. This rule 
allows Congress to be more inclusive and integrated as it pertains to 
our Delegates.

Significantly, the rule brings the Congresswoman from the District of 
Columbia, Eleanor Holmes Norton, closer to a House vote for the 
District, a vote that was almost realized through bipartisan efforts in 
the 109th Congress.

By giving our Delegates a vote in the Committee of the Whole, we 
provide these representatives with the opportunity to greater serve 
their constituents. I wonder what the rest of the citizens of this 
country would think would be wrong with such an opportunity for these 
citizens to have a voting Representative, as our citizens do?

Delegates will now have a record that reflects their positions on the 
measures that come before the House, but ultimately Delegates will be 
more involved with the work of the Congress, which would, at least in 
small part, become their Congress.

In recognizing our Delegates, Mr. Faleomavaega, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. 
Christensen, Mr. Fortuno and Eleanor Holmes Norton, I point out that 
their contributions have been much like that of other representatives. 
Our Delegates already serve and vote on committee business, they serve 
in caucus and leadership positions, and they diligently represent the 
interests of their constituents. It is an honor to work alongside these 
Members. Why shouldn't we help them in this long, arduous struggle 
toward full membership in the House?

For the Delegate from the District of Columbia, I believe that a vote 
in the Committee of the Whole is a step toward achieving a vote in the 
House. It is not the final step. Our work to bring democracy to the 
Nation's Capital will continue after today's, what I hope will be a 
success.

For over 200 years, the District residents have been disenfranchised 
while assuming the responsibilities of United States citizenship. Like 
both State and territory residents, District residents serve in the 
Armed Forces and are currently represented in Iraq, Afghanistan and 
other countries in the world. Like


State residents, but unlike territory residents, citizens of the 
District pay Federal taxes and vote in Presidential elections.

However, the District is alone in that it is denied voting 
representation in the very entity that controls all aspects of the 
city's legislative, executive, and judicial functions--the Congress. No 
other entity--State or territory--lacks this much autonomy.

I will continue to support Congresswoman Norton in her efforts to 
secure a vote for the District. I pledge to work towards such a vote in 
the coming weeks. This Congress is capable of a sound, bipartisan 
response and in fact proved as much last Congress. Let us now address 
the unfinished business of the 109th Congress and the unfinished 
business of our democracy.