---
---

# MARKING THE END OF THE 4TH YEAR OF THE OCCUPATION OF IRAQ
## `abca1ddf093136ca57d25017e27dd3f3`
`Mr. HINCHEY — 19 March 2007`

---


Mr. HINCHEY. Mr. Speaker, the purpose of my coming to the floor this 
evening, along with a number of my friends and colleagues on this side 
of the aisle, is to mark the fact that tomorrow will be the 4th year 
that our military forces instigated by the administration have attacked 
Iraq and engaged in what the administration has called a war in that 
country. Most people now have come to realize that we are not engaged 
in a war in Iraq, but we are engaged now in an occupation, the 
consequences of which are proving to be increasingly disastrous.

At 10:15 p.m. on March 19, 2003, in a televised address to the 
Nation, President Bush announced the start of what he refers to as 
''the war in Iraq.''



The way in which the administration attempted to justify that attack 
has been a grave consequence for the United States, both internally and 
around the world. The President, of course, and others in his 
administration contended that there was a connection between Iraq and 
the attack that took place in New York and at the Pentagon on September 
11, 2001, that Iraq was somehow involved in that attack, when all of 
the evidence and information indicated that that was not the case.

In spite of that, the administration continued to make that 
allegation. They then went on to say that it was important that the 
United States invade Iraq for the safety of our country and for the 
safety of others because Iraq was a country that possessed what they 
referred to as ''weapons of mass destruction,'' alleging that there was 
substantial amounts of chemical and biological weapons in Iraq.

They then went on to assert that Iraq had a nuclear weapons program, 
and the President of the United States in a 2003 State of the Union 
Address to a joint session of Congress and to the Nation here in this 
House asserted that the British Government had learned that Iraq had 
imported enriched uranium from Niger. When he included that sentence in 
his State of the Union Address, he was very much aware that the 
intelligence agencies in our country had said that there was no proof 
that that was the case. In fact, they had examined the documents upon 
which those assertions were being made, and they found those documents 
which had been stolen from the Nigerian Embassy in Rome were, in fact, 
forged.

So what we have here is an unnecessary and unjustified and 
consequently illegal attack on another country and a subsequent 
disastrous occupation which has gone on now for 4 years, and we will be 
beginning the fifth year starting tomorrow.

As a result of this occupation, over 3,200 American servicemen and 
women have been killed in Iraq since our invasion over 4 years ago. 
Over 24,000 troops have been wounded in action in Iraq, and the number 
of Iraqis killed is unknown, but the estimates range as high as 200,000 
Iraqi civilians, mostly women and children, who have been killed in 
that country as a result of the military action.

We are spending now about $275 million per day in Iraq. More than $8 
billion every month is being spent in that country. And as the Speaker 
of the House noted earlier this evening in her speech on the floor, at 
least $10 billion of that money is completely unaccounted for, and much 
of the rest has been spent in ways that have not been productive, but 
have been extraordinarily wasteful.

The President in January called for what he referred to as a surge of 
nearly 30,000 additional soldiers into Iraq. So far that has amounted 
to 21,500 additional troops that have gone to Iraq in January, and 
4,400 more just two weekends ago.

The circumstances there continue to deteriorate as a result of the 
corrupt and incompetent way in which this illegal invasion and 
subsequent occupation have been carried out by this administration.

Roughly half of all of the ground equipment that the U.S. Army owns 
is now located in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since the invasion, the Army 
has lost nearly 2,000 wheeled vehicles and more than 1,000 armed 
vehicles. To make matters worse, according to the GAO, the Army has not 
been keeping accurate track of what they have and what they need to 
reset the force, and they cannot provide sufficient detail for Congress 
to provide effective oversight.

Between 75,000 and 100,000 pieces of National Guard equipment worth 
nearly $2 billion are now located in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is 
equipment that is needed by the National Guard here in our country to 
carry out the obligations and responsibilities of the National Guard 
around the United States. And they are now increasingly being deprived 
of their ability to carry out their responsibilities and obligations 
because of the loss of their equipment.

The Regular Army has lost so much equipment which has not been 
replaced that they are now using the equipment of the National Guard to 
replace the equipment that they have lost and which this administration 
has failed to provide replacements for.

We have a situation that is confronting us now in Iraq which is 
increasingly damaging, dangerous, and on the verge of being disastrous 
for our country as well as for others in the Middle East.

We need this Congress to assert its obligations and responsibilities 
to oversee the activities of this administration, and that is clearly 
necessary because all through the 4 years during which this illegal 
invasion took place followed by this occupation, there has not been any 
significant oversight by this Congress, which, of course, was 
controlled by the Republican majority for all of that period of time.

Now that we have a Democratic majority in Congress, that oversight is 
beginning. Appropriate hearings are being conducted both in this House 
and in the Senate, and more and more information concerning the way in 
which this operation has been carried out is being made available to 
the American people, and as a result of that, more and more people 
across the country are realizing what a disaster this has been. More 
and more Americans are understanding how they were intentionally and 
purposefully misled and deceived by this administration in order to 
carry out this invasion which had absolutely nothing to do with the 
attack of September 11, and which cannot be justified in any way 
whatsoever.

This action is unlawful, and appropriate oversight and supervision 
based upon detailed and focused hearings by this Congress is now 
absolutely necessary.

We have with us this evening several of my colleagues who are 
interested in speaking about this issue, and I would now like to 
recognize my very good friend from Ohio, who will address the House at 
this time.