---
---

# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008
## `abe688ab71e520973af39a281914ac8b`
`Mr. WEBB — 11 July 2007`

---


Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, first I say I think there is a lot of 
misunderstanding and misrepresentation that has been made over the past 
couple of days with respect to this amendment.

Before I get into the amendment, I wish also to express, again, my 
admiration for the Senator from Arizona--we have been friends for many 
years--and my appreciation for his service. I watched his comments 
yesterday with respect to the end of the time in Southeast Asia. I 
think he knows I still adamantly support what we attempted to do in 
Vietnam and I have written about those days with some frequency and 
clarity over the years. In my view, this is not about the situation in 
Southeast Asia.

I warned against what I believe is the strategic blundering of going 
into Iraq in the first place, but I will set that aside today. There 
was a lot of talk this morning and yesterday, some of it about 
process--the Senator from New Hampshire mentioning he wanted to see 
side by side, that he was going to oppose this amendment based on the 
cloture process itself.

The Senator from South Carolina--I want to address some of the things 
he said. He keeps talking about the political moment here. I don't 
think there is a political moment in this issue. There may be on other 
issues. I approach this issue from the perspective, among others, as 
someone who served 3 years as Assistant Secretary of Defense, where I 
was responsible for dealing with mobilization issues and was required 
to learn with a great deal of detail what they used to call war maps. 
Those are manpower flow issues.

I also point out, because of the some of the other comments that were 
just made, that the Commandant of the Marine Corps, when he took 
office, mentioned that his ultimate goal was to see a 2:1 rotational 
cycle with respect to deployment of marines. I point that out because 
this amendment sets out a bare minimum floor for the use of American 
troops of 1:1. If you have been gone a year, you should get a year 
back. If you have been gone 7 months, you should get 7 months back. If 
we were arguing optimal scenarios, I would understand a little bit more 
the pushback we are getting from the other side. We are not trying to 
put optimal historical scenarios on the table here. We are trying to 
get a bare minimum floor that will protect the well-being of our 
troops.

We have data that has been shown--we don't need to go over it today--
about how this is affecting the retention of high-quality people, how 
it is affecting emotional difficulties people are having. We need to 
step forward and act responsibly.

Some Republicans have questioned the constitutionality of this 
amendment. There is no issue here. Article I section 8 says the 
Congress has the power to make rules for government and regulation of 
the land and naval forces, and we have done so many times in the past. 
Some say this is meddling in the President's warmaking authority. To 
the contrary, the Congress has the power and the duty to place proper 
restraints on executive authority, particularly when it comes to the 
well-being of our troops. We did that in Korea in 1951.


It was not, as the Senator from South Carolina might allege, meddling 
in the Korean war. It was a situation where the Department of Defense 
was sending soldiers overseas before they had been fully trained. We 
stepped in, the Congress, our predecessors, stepped in. They put a law 
into place saying you cannot deploy anybody until they have been in the 
military at least 120 days. This is what we are doing, only on the 
other end of it.

We are saying: After 4 years of a ground occupation in Iraq, we have 
a responsibility to get some stability into the operational tempo. 
Yesterday my colleague from Alabama, Senator Sessions, warned that the 
amendment would, in his words, alter the traditional power of the 
President as it relates to all future wars, any war now, or series of 
wars in the future.

My friend, I hope, will reread my amendment carefully. He will find 
that this amendment applies to Iraq, Afghanistan, and certain NATO-
sponsored activities. Senator Sessions also stated his concerns, as he 
put it, that this is another amendment trying to set another strategy 
written by a group sitting in air-conditioned offices.

I would like to emphasize a few points. The first is, this amendment 
does not represent strategy. It is an amendment that protects the well-
being of our troops by setting a bare minimum floor on how they are 
being used no matter what strategy is in place.

Second, the experiences that led some of us to this conclusion did 
not come from sitting in air-conditioned offices. I would like to point 
out, as far as I can determine, Senator Chuck Hagel is the only ground 
combat veteran on the other side of the aisle. He certainly is the only 
ground combat veteran from Vietnam on the other side of the aisle. He 
is a lead cosponsor of this amendment.

On this side of the aisle, all the ground combat veterans are 
cosponsors, along with 35 Members of the Senate. I believe, if I may 
say, we collectively understand a truth acquired the hard way and a 
truth that transcends politics. We are trying in all good faith to do 
something about it.

Finally, I would like to point out, again, this amendment has the 
full support of the Military Officers Association of America. This is 
the largest association of military officers in the country, 368,000 
members. And these are officers who are not restrained from speaking 
their opinions by having to serve inside today's political process.

VADM Norbert Ryan wrote a letter--I will quote one paragraph of it--a 
letter supporting the necessity of this amendment. He pointed out his 
association is very concerned that steps must be taken to protect our 
most precious military asset, the All-Volunteer Force, from having to 
bear such a disproportionate share of national wartime sacrifice.

He also said, and I think this is vital to the decision we are making 
on this amendment:




 If we are not better stewards of our troops and their 


 families in the future than we have been in the recent past, 


 our organization believes strongly that we will be putting 


 the all-volunteer force at unacceptable risk.


These officers, 368,000, are joining us in a very real concern; that 
under current policy many of our ground forces are actually spending 
more time in Iraq than they are at home. This is 4 years into an 
occupation. There is not a strategic justification for this at this 
point in our commitment in Iraq. And there is no political reason, in 
my view, to oppose an amendment that places proper restraints on this 
sort of conduct by the executive branch.

This amendment recognizes that the Congress has a duty to exercise 
leadership when it comes to the well-being of our men and women in 
uniform. In the words of Admiral Ryan, it is a recognition that we have 
a responsibility to become better stewards of our troops and their 
families than we have been in the recent past.

I will say to my colleagues, as I did yesterday, the American people 
are watching us. They are watching us closely with the expectation that 
we will finally take some sort of positive action that might stabilize 
the operational environment in which our troops are being sent again 
and again.

They are tired of the posturing that is giving the Congress such a 
bad reputation. They are tired of the procedural strategies designed to 
protect politicians from accountability and to protect this 
administration from accountability. They are looking for concrete 
action that will protect the well-being of our men and women in 
uniform.

So the question in this amendment is not whether you support this war 
or whether you don't, it is not whether you want to wait until July or 
September to see whether one particular set of opinions or benchmarks 
or summaries might be coming in. The question is, more than 4 years 
into the ground operations in Iraq, that we owe stability and a 
reasonable cycle of deployment to the men and women who are carrying 
our Nation's burden. That is the question. That is the purpose of this 
amendment.

I yield the floor.