# NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2011
## `abf213f2b3ee001e5fc920b91f1cf70d`
`Mr. McKEON — 27 May 2010`

---


Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, as legislators, we meet once again to address the wide 
range of important national security activities undertaken by the 
Department of Defense and the Department of Energy. We all take our 
legislative responsibilities very seriously. This is especially true 
during a time of war. And it's always true of my good friend and 
colleague, our Armed Services Committee chairman, Ike Skelton.

As a result of Chairman Skelton's tireless efforts to put forward 
this bill, our committee reported out the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 last Wednesday. The vote was 
unanimous, 59-0. Consistent with the longstanding bipartisan practice 
of the Armed Services Committee, this bill reflects our committee's 
continued strong support for the brave men and women of the United 
States Armed Forces.

The defense authorization bill authorizes $567 billion in budget 
authority for the fiscal year 2011 base budget of the Department of 
Defense and national security programs of the Department of Energy, and 
it authorizes $139 billion in funding to support operations in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the global war on terrorism.

This bill does an admirable job in dealing with some of our greatest 
national security challenges. Addressing the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, H.R. 1536 authorizes the fiscal year 2011 overseas 
contingency operations. With respect to Afghanistan, this bill updates 
reporting requirements, including asking for the conditions and 
criteria that will be used to measure progress, instead of allowing the 
ticking Washington political clock to determine our end state.

I am very pleased that the chairman and our colleagues on the 
committee joined us in ensuring that lifesaving combat enablers such as 
force protection, medical evacuation, and intelligence, surveillance, 
and reconnaissance capabilities are deployed in time to fully support 
the 30,000 additional troops scheduled to arrive in Afghanistan by this 
summer.

Building on the Acquisition Reform Act this body passed in April, 
this legislation takes a number of important steps on major weapons 
programs. We strongly believe that a $110 billion noncompetitive, sole 
source, 25-year contract should not be permitted. Therefore, we 
strongly support the inclusion of funding to complete development of 
the F-136 competitive engine for the Joint Strike Fighter.

As a Nation, we owe more than our gratitude to the brave men and 
women in uniform and their families, past and present, for the 
sacrifices they make and have made to protect our freedom. We are 
pleased that this legislation includes a pay raise which is half a 
percentage point above the President's request.

A major disappointment is that once again the committee and House 
leadership were unable to find the mandatory spending offsets needed to 
eliminate the widow's tax, a tax that occurs because survivors must 
forfeit most or all of their Survivor Benefit Plan annuity to receive 
Dependency and Indemnity Compensation. Nor were we able to provide for 
concurrent receipt of military disability retired pay and VA disability 
pay, as proposed by the President. I know that Chairman Skelton has 
attempted to find the offsets, but so far, despite this House approving 
trillions in spending that is not offset, this body has been unable or 
unwilling to find the means to support widows and disabled veterans.

One of the areas where there is disagreement between the aisles is 
detainee policy. We need to keep terrorists off our soil, not fight to 
get them here. We are disappointed that the bill does not prohibit 
the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to U.S. soil.


Finally, for the last 8 years, we have asked our men and women of the 
Armed Forces and their families to make repeated sacrifices while 
serving this Nation. They have unhesitatingly and selflessly responded 
in a magnificent manner, without hesitation putting mission and Nation 
ahead of self and family. Now the proponents of repealing Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell want to rush a vote to the floor that disrupts the process 
that was put in place earlier this year to give the troops the 
opportunity to make their view known on this most important issue.

After making the continuous sacrifice of fighting two wars over the 
course of 8 years, the men and women of our military deserve to be 
heard. Congress acting first is the equivalent to turning to our men 
and women in uniform and their families and saying your opinion, your 
views do not count.

Yesterday I spoke to and received letters from all four service 
chiefs. I will include copies of those letters in the Record. Let me 
read a couple of excerpts, Mr. Chairman.

General Schwartz, the Air Force Chief of Staff, writes, ''I believe 
it is important, a matter of keeping faith with those currently serving 
in the Armed Forces, that the Secretary of Defense commissioned review 
be completed before there is any legislation to repeal the Don't Ask, 
Don't Tell law. Such action sends an important signal to our airmen and 
families that their opinion matters.''

General Casey, the Army Chief of Staff, writes, ''I believe that 
repealing the law before the completion of the review will be seen by 
the men and women of the Army as a reversal of our commitment to hear 
their views before moving forward.'' Similar views are expressed by 
Admiral Roughead and General Conway.

Mr. Chairman, I planned on addressing this matter in detail when we 
debate Mr. Murphy's amendment. Unfortunately, the leadership deemed 
this debate, this issue so critical to the morale and welfare of our 
military worthy of only 10 minutes of debate. Ten minutes. The repeal 
of Don't Ask, Don't


Tell will get as much time for debate today as the manager's amendment. 
This is an outrage.

I'd like to make one last point. If this body were to adopt Mr. 
Murphy's amendment, then this House would breach the trust of 2.5 
million men and women in uniform and their families by saying to them 
that their voices don't count. We owe our military personnel better.

In order to allow this House the time it needs to hear from our 
military forces through the process that was set up earlier this year, 
and their families, before we make a decision, I would encourage 
Members to vote against the Don't Ask, Don't Tell compromise and 
against final passage if my Democratic colleagues refuse to wait to 
hear from our troops.

As in years past, I believe that this legislation reflects many of 
the Armed Services Committee's priorities in supporting our Nation's 
dedicated and courageous servicemembers. I thank Chairman Skelton for 
putting together an excellent bill and helping us to stay focused on 
delivering a bill that protects, sustains, and builds our forces. I 
support H.R. 5136 as passed by the House Armed Services Committee.

We never, in the committee, in our markup, we never held a full 
committee hearing on Don't Ask, Don't Tell. We never included it or 
discussed it in our debate in the Armed Services Committee.

I look forward to working with my colleagues to improve H.R. 5136.





















 Secretary of Defense,


















 Washington, DC, April 30, 2010.


 Hon. Ike Skelton,


 Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, House of 




 Representatives, Washington, DC.



 Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing in response to your letter 


 of April 28 requesting my views on the advisability of 


 legislative action to repeal the so-called ''Don't Ask Don't 


 Tell'' statute prior to the completion of the Department of 


 Defense review of this matter.



 I believe in the strongest possible terms that the 


 Department must, prior to any legislative action, be allowed 


 the opportunity to conduct a thorough, objective, and 


 systematic assessment of the impact of such a policy change; 


 develop an attentive comprehensive implementation plan, and 


 provide the President and the Congress with the results of 


 this effort in order to ensure that this step is taken in the 


 most informed and effective manner. A critical element of 


 this effort is the need to systematically engage our forces, 


 their families, and the broader military community throughout 


 this process. Our military must be afforded the opportunity 


 to inform us of their concerns, insights, and suggestions if 


 we are to carry out this change successfully.



 Therefore, I strongly oppose any legislation that seeks to 


 change this policy prior to the completion of this vital 


 assessment process. Further, I hope Congress will not do so, 


 as it would send a very damaging message to our men and women 


 in uniform that in essence their views, concerns, and 


 perspectives do not matter on an issue with such a direct 


 impact and consequence for them and their families.


 Adm. Michael G. Mullen,



 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.


 Robert M. Gates,



 Secretary of Defense.