# HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
## `ac04ec1ec7f1a0f4f42a7e1bcb2dbcf5`
`Mr. BAYH â€” 17 December 2007`

---


Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, today with a heavy heart and deep sense of 
gratitude I honor the life of a brave soldier from Richmond, IN. SPC 
Johnathan Lahmann, 21 years old, died December 10th in Tikrit, Iraq. 
Specialist Lahmann died of injuries he sustained in Bayhi, Iraq, when 
an improvised explosive device detonated near his vehicle. With an 
optimistic future before him, John risked everything to fight for the 
values Americans hold close to our hearts, in a land halfway around the 
world.

John was a 2004 graduate of Richmond High School where he avidly 
studied auto repair with plans to be a mechanic. According to his 
teacher, Roy Reisinger, John was so dedicated to studying auto repair 
that he would go to Mr. Reisinger's house on the weekends to work on 
cars. Mr. Reisinger described John to a local newspaper as ''a top-
notch mechanic'' and ''an all-around good young man.'' In addition to 
his strong work ethic praised by his teachers, his fellow classmates 
recall John's pleasant demeanor and his friendship.

After graduation, John worked at Mosey Manufacturing. In September 
2005, John joined the Army, where he was trained as a combat engineer. 
He was assigned to the 59th Engineer Company, 20th Engineer Battalion, 
36th Engineer Brigade, Fort Hood, TX. In November 2007, John was 
deployed to Iraq. He is survived by his parents, Linda and Alan C. 
Lahmann.

Today, I join John's family and friends in mourning his death. While 
we struggle to bear our sorrow over this loss, we can also take pride 
in the example he set, bravely fighting to make the world a safer 
place. It is his courage and strength of character that people will 
remember when they think of John. Today and always, John will be 
remembered by family members, friends, and fellow Hoosiers as a true 
American hero, and we honor the sacrifice he made while dutifully 
serving his country.

As I search for words to do justice in honoring John's sacrifice, I 
am reminded of President Lincoln's remarks as he addressed the families 
of the fallen soldiers in Gettysburg: ''We cannot dedicate, we cannot 
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and 
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power 
to add or detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we 
say here, but it can never forget what they did here.'' This statement 
is just as true today as it was nearly 150 years ago, as I am certain 
that the impact of John's actions will live on far longer than any 
record of these words.

It is my sad duty to enter the name of SPC Johnathan Alan Lahmann in 
the official record of the United States Senate for his service to this 
country and for his profound commitment to freedom, democracy, and 
peace. When I think about this just cause in which we are engaged, and 
the unfortunate pain that comes with the loss of our heroes, I hope 
that families like John's can find comfort in the words of the prophet 
Isaiah who said, ''He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord 
God will wipe away tears from off all faces.''

May God grant strength and peace to those who mourn, and may God be 
with all of you, as I know He is with Johnathan.
