# None
## `ac0a8087d70b568e332e23392ff7ff4f`
`Mrs. FEINSTEIN — 22 December 2010`

---


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, I am very pleased that the Senate is 
about to ratify the New START treaty--I hope and believe with a very 
solid bipartisan vote.

This really is a historic moment. This is the biggest arms control 
treaty in 20 years, and the most important foreign policy action the 
Senate will take this Congress.

This is absolutely the right thing to do. It is important to our 
national security and it is critical to uphold America's place in the 
world community.

As I have said many times, the arms reductions in this treaty are 
modest. New START requires a 30 percent reduction in warheads from the 
limits set out in the Moscow Treaty in 2002 to 1,550 on each side, but 
both the United States and Russia have been reducing their strategic 
stockpiles since then.

The real importance of this treaty comes from the monitoring 
provisions, confidence-building measures, and the strengthened 
relationship between two of the world's major powers.

We have not had inspectors at Russian nuclear facilities for 13 
months. We have not had data exchanges on the size and deployment of 
Russian forces. Russia has had the freedom to block our national 
technical means to monitor their forces. Apart from our national 
technical means, we are now blind.

With this treaty, we will benefit from these measures and others. The 
Senate has discussed the monitoring and verification provisions at 
length during this debate--in open and closed session--and it has been 
made very clear that this treaty greatly strengthens our intelligence 
community's ability to monitor and assess Russian strategic forces.

As Director of National Intelligence Clapper has said, the sooner we 
ratify this treaty, the better. I am very pleased that the Senate is 
acting now, before the end of the year and the congressional session, 
to give the executive branch these tools.

With the ratification of this treaty, the Senate also makes clear 
that the United States is willing and able to make good on its foreign 
policy promises and to act in the best interests of our country and of 
the world.

Following ratification in the Russian Duma, the United States and 
Russia will begin the next round of arms control and transparency.

I hope and I believe many Senators have expressed their desire, that 
this will lead to further arms control negotiations to reduce further 
the level of strategic arms and to address tactical nuclear weapons and 
other delivery mechanisms.

The ratification also maintains, and hopefully will build on, the 
improving relationship between our two countries and our two young 
Presidents.

We have enjoyed strong cooperation this year, over Afghanistan, over 
Iran, and--according to a letter I received from President Obama on 
Monday--over the tense situation on the Korean Peninsula.

In a world of asymmetric threats, we need friends and allies more 
than ever. This treaty moves us in this direction--with Russia and with 
the Eastern European nations that are strongly in support of the 
treaty.

Before closing, I want to congratulate and thank my good friend from 
Massachusetts. He has spent an incredible amount of time considering 
this treaty in the Foreign Relations Committee, preparing the 
resolution of ratification and in managing this floor debate.

He has done a fabulous job, and I really want to thank him for all 
his effort and his cooperation with me through this entire process.

I would also like to thank the many administration officials for 
their assistance in my consideration of this treaty, all of whom have 
spent time in my office over the past year. They include:



 Assistant Secretary Rose Gottemoeller, our lead negotiator; 


 Admiral Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; 


 General James Cartwright, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs; 


 Tom D'Agostino, Administrator of the National Nuclear 


 Security Administration; and Director of National 


 Intelligence Jim Clapper.