# IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ac0b3557ce87e58f33e0c4c9fb1f39b7`
`Mr. ORTIZ — 14 February 2007`

---


Mr. ORTIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bipartisan 
resolution.

I could ask a question, were we ready to go to war? I don't think so.

I just want to put a little of the history of Iraq in context. And we 
probably remember these names, Specialist Edgar Hernandez, Specialist 
Joseph Hudson, Specialist Shoshana Johnson, PFC Jessica Lynch, PFC 
Patrick Miller and Sergeant James Riley. They were all members of the 
507th Maintenance Company that went missing after an Iraqi ambush in 
Nasiriya on March 23, 2003.

They were a maintenance company. They weren't supposed to be in front 
of the infantry. And, of course, we understand this is war and there is 
a confusion.



They were taken prisoners. But this illustrates for us again that we 
were not ready for this war from the beginning. We went in with too few 
soldiers, who, by the way, were not greeted with flowers or parades. 
This administration went against the recommendations of the Chief of 
Staff of the Army, General


Shinseki, who said, you know what, we need no less than 250,000 troops 
to overwhelm the enemy. So what happened? We went in with less than 
that. What was the goal? To go straight to Baghdad. And we left the 
left flank, the right flank completely open. Not only that. With 
thousands of ammunition dumps all over the place in Iraq, you know 
what? They were ready for war. They were ready for us. But we were not 
ready for them. Because a lot of things went wrong in this war. The 
intelligence was flawed. It was wrong. And, my friends, I am saying 
this because we cannot afford to make a another mistake such as this.

I was just at a hearing about an hour ago, 2 hours ago, and let me 
read to you what the Chief of Staff of the Army, Schoomaker, said just 
a few moments ago. He said, ''After years of insufficient investment in 
the Army, many of our units were underequipped and not ready for 
deployment, especially in our Reserve units. To meet combatant 
commanders' immediate wartime needs, we pulled equipment from across 
the force to equip those soldiers deploying into harm's way, a practice 
that we are continuing today to meet current operational needs.''

My friends, we are at war. We support our soldiers. The men and women 
in uniform are in dangerous places around the world to do their duty on 
behalf of all of us, military, civilian, Republicans, Democrats, and 
independents.

This resolution is very simple: Congress and the American people will 
continue to support and protect the members of the United States Armed 
Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably in 
Iraq; and Congress disapproves of the decision of the President of the 
United States, George W. Bush, who announced on January 10, 2007, to 
deploy more than 20,000 additional United States combat troops to Iraq.

Now, it is going to take more than 21,000 soldiers. You have got to 
send support troops. So I think sometimes I wonder whether if we could 
just pause or take time off so that we could regroup or correct the 
mistakes. But you can't do that when you are in the middle of two wars.

This is a different mission, and we ask our soldiers to do the best 
that they can, and then we say that we need for the Iraqis to stand up 
so we can stand down. My friends, if we cannot even equip our military, 
how can we expect to equip the Iraqis so that they can stand up?