---
---

# PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H. CON. RES. 63, IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION
## `ac18513216d0d0e775e9d69ac03871d1`
`Mr. HASTINGS of Washington — 13 February 2007`

---


Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member 
for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to House Resolution 157 and the 
underlying resolution.

Mr. Speaker, our Nation is engaged in a Global War on Terror, a war 
that we did not seek, but a war that was brought to our shores on 
September 11, 2001. Today, we fight an enemy without borders that is 
determined to destroy our Nation by any means necessary. An al Qaeda 
leader said that they have the right to ''kill 4 million Americans, 2 
million of them children, and to exile twice as many and wound and 
cripple thousands.''

The President of Iran has called a world without America and Israel 
''possible and feasible.''

It is also undeniable that Iraq is the central front on the war on 
terror. But you don't have to take my word for it, Mr. Speaker. The 
terrorists themselves have told us it is so. Al Qaeda's deputy leader 
has repeatedly said that Afghanistan and Iraq are the ''two most 
crucial fields'' in the Islamists' war. In a letter he said that 
expelling Americans from Iraq is the first step in expanding the jihad 
wave.

If this, Mr. Speaker, is what the terrorists are telling us, why 
should we not believe them?

As much as I wish that our troops were home, I recognize that 
arbitrary pulling out of Iraq would provide a sanctuary for terrorists 
and have serious consequences for our U.S. security. A self-sustaining 
government there is critical to our security here.

I share the frustration of all Americans who had hoped that the 
Iraqis would be protecting and governing themselves by now, but that 
simply is not the reality. Previous strategies to stabilize Iraq have 
not succeeded and things cannot continue as they have been. In order to 
succeed, Iraqis must step up and take responsibility for their own 
security. And under the new strategy, Mr. Speaker, announced last 
month, they will be held more accountable in the future.

Some say this new strategy is wrong; yet they fail to say what is 
right. They


call for an arbitrary pullout yet have not answered the question ''what 
then?'' They seek to cut off funding for our troops yet offer no plan 
for fighting terrorists.

Mr. Speaker, there is no easy answer. But simply declaring that we 
don't wish to be at war anymore does not make our enemies surrender. 
Withholding military personnel, failing to provide funds for our 
troops, or pulling out of Iraq with no plan to win the war on terror 
are simply not options. The consequence of failure is simply too dire. 
If we are defeated, Iraq will become a haven that our enemies will use 
to launch attacks against us. The Middle East will remain destabilized. 
Terrorists will fight us on our soil. And it will send a dangerous 
signal to countries like Iran, North Korea, and Syria, and embolden 
terrorists around the world.

The Baker-Hamilton Commission warned specifically against a 
precipitous withdrawal. They said: ''The near-term results would be a 
significant power vacuum, greater human suffering, regional 
destabilization, and a threat to the global economy. Al Qaeda would 
depict our withdrawal as a historic victory.''

So our challenge, Mr. Speaker, is to insist on victory and not accept 
defeat. So, accordingly, I will not vote to deny our troops the support 
they need to protect themselves and America.

The nonbinding resolution before us today is contradictory on 
supporting the troops. On the first page it says we will continue to 
support the troops in Iraq, but on the next page it expresses 
opposition to sending reinforcements that our military says are needed 
to support our troops currently on the ground.

Mr. Speaker, how can you support the troops but not the mission?

Let me say again that I will not vote to deny our troops the support 
they need to protect themselves and America. What I would vote for, if 
given the opportunity, is a plan that would have the force of law, that 
would set benchmarks to measure progress, that would ensure that 
funding for our troops is not cut off, and that would keep Congress 
fully apprised so that they can make informed decisions.

In closing, I would just say that we must not forget the sacrifice 
that our troops are making. They are fighting the enemy abroad so that 
we will not have to fight them here. The bottom line is that this is 
about America and our security and a set of enemies who have said again 
and again that their goal is to destroy us.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to oppose this closed rule and 
the underlying resolution.